{"label":" Norton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9835/homepage_large.3d02569d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Mary Weiss","title":"Dangerous Game","text":" On Mary Weiss' homepage, there's a photo of her circa1965 that looks straight out of 2007, right down to the tight, dark jeans tucked into brown kneehigh leather boots. Even 40 years later, it's hard not to immediately crush out, especially staring into those kittenish saucer eyes. Does she want to cuddle you, crush you, or drink a pop? Weiss looks exactly how a mod, mid60s girlgroup frontchick, the leader of the charm school dropouts in the ShangriLa's, should look, an earth angel hiding cigarettes under princess beds and giving dad indigestion, stuffing all the roiling teenage sexual tension of the era into print dresses and pleated dress slacks. A few weeks back, Weiss performed on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" in what had to be her first television appearance in decades, long sidelined by music industry nonsense. Backed live on the air, as on the new Dangerous Game, by Greg Cartwright's Reigning Sound, Weiss' time in civilian life was evident. While her voice was mostly in fine shape, she unsurprisingly appeared a little hesitant; the band was likewise hesitant, perhaps to give their idol a wide berth. Yet compare Weiss' slight awkwardness to the brassy showbiz bullshit of Diana Ross' recent appearance on \"American Idol\". Don't call it \"ordinariness\"; instead, call it \"realness.\" Realness is an odd word to invoke when discussing 60s girl groups, a very melodramatic world where everything was exaggerated for impact, and you especially shouldn't invoke it when Cartwright's writing for Dangerous Game pledges fidelity to the longabandoned sound of the era. The music on Dangerous Game is gloriously authentic fakery, drawing more on Cartwright's deeply held classicism be it for blues, early rock 'n' roll, gospel, r&b, girl groups than the punk snarl of Reigning Sound records like Too Much Guitar. With just an organ in place of the massed strings, \"Break It One More Time\" has a Spectorian grandeur; it doesn't quite match the wall of sound, but it comes as close as a bar band can.  So perhaps instead of realness, which really means nothing, Weiss is just being her old plainspoken self. Cartwright's reproductions will thrill anyone with a slight interest in 60s rock; it's Weiss' unadorned and adult ruminations on love and loss, shoved through the pubescent syntax of the girlgroups, that give Dangerous Game its power. Even in the 60s, her bandmates sported bouffants like football helmets. Weiss wore her blonde hair down, the kind of sartorial choice that in pop music, where simple gestures mean just about everything, can communicate lofty stuff like a suspicion of artifice, a struggle with romanticism. The \"dangerous game\" we learn is love itself, of course, and from the first track, \"My Heart Is Beating\", Weiss is singing about someone who did her wrong, someone who cheated and lied. And yet she still wants them back, if they can just stick to the simple promise to straighten up and fly right. Even nonEnglish speakers can probably surmise, just from Weiss' forlorn vocal, what exactly it was that got busted up on \"Break It One More Time\". The music may be time bound but the theme of Dangerous Game timeless: the struggle of a wounded heart that still wants to let its guard down enough to be loved. Its language isn't \"simple\" even purposefully so, as you might think given how the music hearkens back to the simplicity of preSgt. Pepper's rock; it's universal.  The only time the album shows its limitations is on \"Cry About the Radio\", a hokey, albeit mercifully short, lament for the music Weiss grew up with. \"Kids don't know shit,\" she sings, more like a cranky old man than the toughbutguarded lady she's been up until now. \"They just want a hit/ I don't write hits.\" Except she did write hits at one point, and so of course, \"you may wonder where the real songs have gone,\" the kind of fogeyism we shouldn't accept from anyone, no matter how much of a legend they are.  But still, from Cartwright's reverent licks to Weiss' surprisingly sturdy vocals, Dangerous Game is a small, selfcontained triumph, an understated comeback that never tries to announce itself as an event. \"When I was a young girl/ You were my whole world,\" Weiss sings on the lovely \"Stitch in Time\", but she's not a young girl anymore, and the tension between her hardearned knowingness and the sunny throwback simplicity of the music is what makes Dangerous Game great. Not making an album for decades may have been the best thing to happen to Weiss. There are no 80s comeback albums with gated Steve Lillywhite drums marring the discography; no triphop excursions in the mid90s. She jumped straight from her classic material into a buoyant and yet mature second act. The ShangriLa's and other girl groups may have influenced legions of willfully infantile twee bands and hermetically sealed revivalists like the Pipettes, but here Weiss proves that the past shouldn't be a refuge. The power of those girl groups came from the steel reserve and starting sensitivity they had when facing the trials and tribulations of the present.  "}