{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9839/homepage_large.ad32ce56.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Panda Bear","title":"Person Pitch","text":"  Inside the booklet included with Panda Bear's third solo album, Person Pitch, is a list of artists. The first four named are microhouse artists Basic Channel, Luomo, Dettinger, and Wolfgang Voigt. Maybe Noah Lennox, the man behind the Panda Bear, began this influencenaming exercise in a minimal techno state of mind. On the other hand, the inclusion of these four at the top could be significant. We always knew that the guys from his main band, Animal Collective, had an ear out for electronic music, but with Panda Bear, the impact of the DJ seems to run deeper. The music on Person Pitch soundsnothing like proper dance music, but the basic structure the use of dynamics, and above all, the sense of repetition draws heavily from that context. Which is particularly interesting considering what else is going on. The Beach Boys always come up when talking about Panda Bear, and not just because he shares their fondness for certain melodic turns: When he allows the reverb to blanch his voice, Lennox can sound uncannily like Brian Wilson. This tunefulness gives Person Pitch an appeal that extends beyond just Animal Collective fans, but the way the songs are put together also gives them an unusual twist. Producers in Brian Wilson's era never worked like this, sampling old songs and instruments and spinning them in wheels of sound that seem like they could go forever. Most of this record consists of intricately constructed, heavily layered, and highly repetitive loops on top of which Lennox sings oddly familiar and touching melodies. But despite its grounding in guitar pop, Person Pitch isn't likely to be mistaken for the work of a band. It sounds like what it is: one guy alone in his bedroom trolling through music history, picking and choosing bits to make something deeply personal and all his own. The repetition of the music here, though probably engendered by computer, has a strange analog quality. You can almost see the turntables rotating on the opening \"Comfy in Nautica\", which loops Lennox's sung \"ah\"'s and handclaps to evoke ritual campfire music, while the deep reverb on his voice puts us in the same liturgical headspace found on his very different acoustic record Young Prayer from 2004. \"Take Pills\" repeats a tambourine and twangy guitar during its slower opening section while industrial samples that sound like car parts being followed down an assembly line fill in the vast spaces. The field recordings take an aquatic turn on the track's second half, as Lennox picks up his acoustic guitar and moves the party to the beach, singing \"I don't want for us to take pills anymore\" to the kind of effortlessly melodic line that once expressed thoughts like \"da doo ron ron.\"  Given the presence of such tremendously catchy pop moments on Person Pitch, the record's indulgences feel completely earned. The flurry of tabla that opens the extended \"Good Girl/Carrots\" sticks out at first but makes sense once Lennox gets the hectic dub chaos out of his system and settles into the second section's hypnotic tune. When the song edges become wispy and shapeless on \"I'm Not\", which blends Lennox's voice with an indistinct droning synth, the mood and thrust of the album gives the track the appropriate context. \"Search for Delicious\", reminiscent of the glowing ambient drift of Lennox's side project Jane, won't leave the drone alone, repeatedly knocking Lennox's singing off track like a clumsy but wellmeaning drunk. Music of such warped processing would be a specialist's item, but as a breather here, before the simple and childlike musicbox closer \"Ponytail\", it feels right.  I still haven't talked about the 12andahalfminute \"Bros\", the astonishing track that serves as the album's centerpiece. It's here that Person Pitch's repetition and DJ's sense of timing are most apparent, while Lennox's songwriting hits a melodic peak. The first few bars turn to the golden age of 60s and 70s radio, with some rattling percussion chipped from Phil Spector's Wall of Sound and a chiming acoustic guitar that could be pulled from the Beach Boys' \"Girl Don't Tell Me\". But as the loops pass on \"Bros\", the song begins to seem like a glorious travelogue, a journey along a path where all the music's influences are visible along the roadside: the Wilson Brothers in their pinstripe shirts, or the queasy phasing and random sound effects a subway, people on a roller coaster, a baby crying of Lee \"Scratch\" Perry. When Panda begins to chant halfway through, we hear an echo of his main band, and when the neoLatin piano comes in during the latter portion, transforming the track from internallyfocused meditation to outwardlybeaming celebration, we get an image of Derrick May's classic techno anthem \"Strings of Life\" busting into a DJ set to make everyone go crazy. Person Pitch as a whole and \"Bros\" in particular evokes the sunshine of Lennox's adopted Lisbon, Portugal home. But it's the kind of light best experienced with eyes closed with the rays filtered through eyelids, turning the world into various shades of red and orange. You can feel the warmth pouring out of the music and see abstractions of its inspirations that whole long list and more as they cycle around again and again and again. Five of these seven songs have been released in various forms on singles and 12\"s previously, so the exceptionally high quality of this music isn't a surprise to those who have been following Panda Bear closely. Still, hearing it all together in one place and listening to it all at one time is both overwhelming and inspirational. "}