{"label":" Tee Pee","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9841/homepage_large.1f437e1c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"The Assemble Head in Sunburst Sound","title":"Ekranoplan","text":"  The Fucking Champs' Tim Green, who has produced records for the Melvins, Six Organs of Admittance, and Comets on Fire, is clearly a guy who understands the finer points of heavy, retrofitted psychrock. And this professional expertise comes in particularly handy on Ekranoplan, the second album from Bay Area trio the Assemble Head in Sunburst Sound. Following their selfreleased 2005 debut, which was limited to 500 copies, the group here gives all the familiar old Blue Cheer/Floyd/Elevators touchstones another thunderous and sympathetic throttle. Under Green's watchful care, the Assemble Head reach an appropriate balance between the spontaneous intensity of a live gig and a wellcurated studio session, performing their passionate, formalist rock maneuvers with an accompanying waft of patchouli and beersoaked denim.Ekranoplan takes its name from an enormous, lowflying Soviet transport used to shuttle troops beneath enemy radar during the Cold War. And though you'd likely have to live on the Caspian Sea to know for certain, one might reasonably assume that these monsters were able to generate a truly hellacious roar. If so, the Assemble Head in Sunburst Sound have tagged their work accurately, as this album achieves a deafening liftoff right from its opening chords and sustains its noisy trajectory throughout the duration of these nine tracks.  As with such groups as Comets on Fire or Dead Meadow, the individual elements of the Assemble Head's onslaught are less important than the music's overall cumulative wallop. Despite the frequent addition of Ray Castro's vintage keyboards and the occasional Technicolor flourish of acoustic guitar or theremin, the bulk of the album rests on the core trio of Jefferson Marshall, M.I.K.E. Lardas, and Charlie Saufley. These songs all put a hefty premium on skyblasted guitar solos and distant, echoladen vocals that can give the album the impression of having been recorded at the same type of wideopen, abandoned locations where Roger Corman and Herschell Gordon Lewis used to shoot biker movies.  In such an environment, of course, the strength of each recurrent riff becomes vitally significant. Fortunately, the Assemble Head appear to have the necessary goods at ready supply, equipping the melodic \"Mosquito Lantern\" with a clever inversion of Floyd's \"Lucifer Sam\" riff, and plotting out the proginclined \"Occult Roots\" with a procession of dark, swirling arpeggios. Occasionally, as on the title track or the ferocious \"D Brown\", the group do put their cavernous solos before their songcraft, leaving the listener with the afterimage of a vague, generalized din rather than a specific chorus or melody.  More impressive, however, are such predominantly instrumental tracks as the majestic \"A Bourbon For Rudy\" or the acousticbased \"The Morning Maiden\" (which has been listed elsewhere as \"The Chocolate Maiden\"). On these tracks the Assemble Head take a considerably more thoughtful approach to song structure, raising their roofbeams gradually before giving way to their more florid, hippified outbursts. From the vantage of these peaks it is easy to imagine the Assemble Head eventually moving their sound outward into a more progressive direction, one where they are perhaps a little less inclined to settle for their affectionate browsing through the stoner rock archives.  "}