{"label":" Sonic Boom","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9837/homepage_large.109555cf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liz Colville","artist":"Ghost Stories","title":"Quixoticism","text":"  Ron Lewis, aka Ghost Stories, is a folkrock hybrid content to try every pleasureseeking trick in the indie reference book. And it comes as no surprise to learn that the former member of the Fruit Bats and the Joggers' RIYL trip through 1990s indie rock was partially conceived seven years ago, making for several nostalgic, easygoing pieces content to sit on an era gone by. Lewis perfected the older tunes, wrote a few 00s trendteasers, and recorded it all in the comfort of his home. Keeping acoustics at the helm, he uses featherlight production techniques and barely there vocals that will likely swaddle half his listeners in comatose joy and bore the rest.  The airy falsetto and soft harmonies that Lewis curls around blogger favorite \"The Upper Ten/The Lower Five\" would fit in with the easy melodic beauty of Aimee Mann's vaguely mystical rockouts on Bachelor No. 2. This song's melodically predictable and limply performed intro is a prelude to a dithering, withering structure of lilting verse vs. messy chorus that lacks innovation and punch even for all its ambitious rhythmic alterations. There's something to be said for an imagination that can pull the acoustic guitar out of its apparent rut, but in the end it's the more modern sonic nods synths and other voracious electronics that will slightly exalt this album out of indie limbo. \"You Wear It Like a Stained Glass Window\" rips electric guitars through a noisy, melodyfree intro, creating a better contrast than the previous track with a grating, staticdrenched chorus and fumbling, quiet, and unplugged verses. Those dichotomous halves stay together because they're equally crushing, full of popular modern indie motifs such as cute keyboards, nonsensically cute vocals, obedient bass, and the occasional violence from the electric guitar. And it's often the instrumentation that impresses on this debut. The slow, rolling guitar strums that open \"The Motions\" and its heartbeat rhythm of drum and bass move the song beyond its simplistic, mostly wordfree vocal smatterings. As the ditties get prettier birdchirping \"Secret Life of the Union, Part I\" stands out the Elliott Smith vocal blandishes can be forgiven, even enjoyed (at the very least, ignored). But often the influences are too blatant and the songs too underdeveloped. De rigueur pop ballad \"Secret Life I\" is a strange departure, but a coloring that the album needs to just outweigh the derivative with the explorative. "}