{"label":" Hefty","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9840/homepage_large.7f1348d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Victor Bermon","title":"Arriving at Night","text":"  Thanks to cultural parodies like Crocodile Dundee and Outback Steakhouse, Americans might be forgiven for having a rather onesided view of Australians, one that's eerily similar to the rest of the world's opinion of us: They're loud, boorish, and crass; they have ridiculous accents; their slang sounds infantile at best and outright scatological at worst. Before I get deluged with indecipherable hate mail from the other side of the world, note that these stereotypes are acknowledged as such, and since most Americans I know aren't morbidly obese warmongers who wear nothing but garish nylon windsuits and kitschy embroidered sweaters, my intuition tells me that there must be many Australians who don't get drunk at noon and wallop each other with boomerangs for sport. The Australian electronic composer Victor Bermon is proof positive. Judging from the jazzy strains of Bermon's Hefty Records debut, he seems like an agreeable fellow bookish and contemplative, with an interest in the sublime, if not the rapturous. Arriving at Night contains some of the easiestlistening electronic music this side of the Album Leaf. It proceeds by an inflexible logic where pleasing tones flow by with frictionless grace: nothing more, nothing less.  In the vein of Prefuse 73 and Four Tet, Bermon straddles the divide between ambient electronic music and glitchy instrumental hiphop. But unlike his more adventurous peers, he has exactly one mode: serene. A mood of tranquility dominates every track, including the ones that make room for the boom and the bap amid their prismatic digital minutiae, liquid arpeggios, and humming strings.  The glassy shuffle \"Farewell Lunch for Laura\" has more contrast than anything else on the record: Liquid strokes of guitar, staticky gurgles, soft horns, flecked pianos, ballooning bass, and surges of insistent percussion comprise, for Bermon, an unusually varied sound range with three distinct phases of emphasis. But his progressions are so orderly, his shifts so crisp and telegraphed, that even the album's dynamic peaks (see also \"Famous Discussion\" and \"Theatre of Signs\") tend to recede comfortably into the middle distance. \"Photographs Are Not Memories\", which cycles between a canter and a trot as guitars tangle in a haze of beatific timbre, is velvetysmooth even when a gnarled tone starts scratching through the background for texture.  While the comparable Album Leaf seems to often get by on pretty alone, Bermon's compositions are more heady and sly. One intuits in him a keen eye for natural patterns and symmetries concentric ripples on a pond; the delicate vein structures of leaves that he's simply unwilling to disrupt when translating them into sound. Even his glitches, like the staccato lunges of \"View of the Islands\", betray a love of order Bermon's glitches slot neatly into one another to produce somnolent, buttoneddown cadences, and the tones sliding away from the mix seem locked into invisible curves. From the shivering waves of \"We Face Each Other\" to the sunstruck slush of \"Unprepared\" to the chimeladen haze of \"Stacked Notebooks\", you always know just what to expect from Victor Bermon some permutation of clatter, hitch, shuffle and glide, drenched in gentle reverb and melodious samples, repeated ad infinitum. That Arriving at Night still merits repeated listening speaks to the care that went into crafting these tracks, which demand very little from listeners in return for their pleasure.  "}