{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9844/homepage_large.4637b764.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Unsane","title":"Visqueen","text":" When Relapse released the Unsane retrospective Lambhouse in 2003, it seemed like a fitting end to a succinct, consistent career (the group's last proper album being 1998's Occupational Hazard). But apparently the band saw it as a beginning, reforming shortly after and releasing Blood Run in 2005. Taut and competent, the album didn't stain the Unsane legacy, but it didn't add anything either. And it certainly didn't disprove the theory that Lambhouse worked best as a tombstone. The same goes for Visqueen, Unsane's first album for Mike Patton's Ipecac label. The trio's patented sound tightly wound punkmetal featuring slashing guitars, musclebound rhythms, and the throatstripping screams of Chris Spencer remains intact, albeit in slicker form. The problem is that this style holds no surprises 18 years after Unsane first coined it. And the band seems uninterested in pushing its songwriting forward, sticking to familiar patterns that are well executed but wholly predictable. This doesn't mean the dense guitar bombs of \"Last Man Standing\", the stairclimbing throb of \"This Stops at the River\", or the strident roar of \"Only Pain\" aren't entertaining. When not struggling too hard to compensate for mediocre tunes, Spencer's howls are compelling, and his slicing guitar cuts through nicely. Even Visqueen's goofier moments, like the straining \"Windshield\" (whose guitar line is oddly reminiscent of the Cars' \"Moving in Stereo\"), work in isolated doses. But as a whole Visqueen collapses under the weight of its own immobility. A few tracks in, everything blends into a vague blur: Spencer's cadences repeat, Vinny Signorelli's drumbeats get cloned, and Dave Curran's bass fuzz bleeds across songs. Maybe it's just albumlength fatigue that makes later cuts like the lethargic \"Line on the Wall\" and the middlingtempo \"Disdain\" sound so exhausted, but it's difficult to imagine any context in which they would exhilarate. Unsane throws its first curve on the final track, \"East Broadway\", an eightminute grinder that strips things down to a vocalless, minimalist pulse. But even that track outlasts its own inspiration, looping out into a bored, empty denouement. For the Unsane fanatic uninterested in variations on the band's wellworn theme, the album won't disappoint, and there's no shame in wanting more of the same. But there are enough interesting updates and original takes on this kind of sound out there that Visqueen can be recommended only to diehards, if at all. "}