{"label":" Trojan","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9847/homepage_large.334c3823.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dave Stelfox","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Upsetter Selection-- A Lee Perry Jukebox","text":" \"I am the future teller, I am the fortune teller, I am the scientist, I am the miracle man and I'm living here because I don't have anywhere else to live at the moment, but I'm not coming from here. My real name is Rain: a man with no fear, a man who do everything he desire without any law.\" So reads the introduction to The Upsetter Selection. So far, so Lee Perry, then... All the same, it's just as well to admit that we'd be lost without the cosmictravelling, lunaticsavant schtick. By now most of the stories surrounding this man burning his own Black Ark Studios to the ground, talking to palm trees, walking backwards through Kingston hitting the ground with a hammer, claiming to run the International Monetary Fund are as well loved as they are known. They're part of his appeal, as key to his legendary status as the music he makes. Keep an eye out for smoke and mirrors, though. View it from another angle and you can see that he's playing to the crowd fucking with us because we like it and you may even notice that that a kernel of truth lies nested at the heart of many of his eccentrically expressed statements, too. If nothing else, Perry's right about his bravery and disregard for convention; he's spent the past four decades almost singlehandedly writing, rewriting, and occasionally shredding reggae's rulebook. Be it his collaborations with Clement \"Coxsone\" Dodd at Studio One, his stint with Joe Gibbs, his charttopping songs with the Upsetters, his work with vocal artists including Bob Marley, URoy, and Junior Byles, or the alternate realities conjured by his dubs, it's safe to say that even the most casual music fan will have encountered his work at some point in their lives.  Claiming an irrefutable place among Jamaica's foremost musical innovators, Perry has already been the subject of countless anthologies, box sets, primers, and cashins. Here, however, as part of Trojan Records' ongoing series of celebrity curated anniversary compilations, he gets to select himself. It's a riveting 2xCD journey, documenting most every stage of the producer's career. Especially notable are initial experiments such as dropping jagged squalls of baby screams into \"People Funny Boy\" and reversing the vocal of Burt Walters' \"Honey Love\", then releasing it as a whole new Upsetters' record, entitled \"Evol Yenoh\". Straightforward, a bit bonkers, and crying out to be done, these tricks went on to become trademarks that are now immediately recognized around the world the things that made his name.  But why stay rooted on the earthly plane? Fast forward and you'll find Perry crediting himself as the man who helped Bob Marley vanquish the dark spirits that were at the time preventing his success. Listening to the languid defiance in the singer's voice on 1970's \"Duppy Conqueror\", it's an easy claim to believe. Regardless of the metaphysical or supernatural, Perry's relationship with the Wailers continued for many years, the collaboration's finest few minutes represented by \"Small Axe\", a song Marley never bettered.  Disc Two, meanwhile, ups the interest right from the start, kicking off with a triptych of \"skank\" tunes Charlie Ace & Lee Perry's \"Cow Thief Skank\" and Lee \"Scratch\" Perry & the Upsetters' \"Bathroom Skank\" and \"Kentucky Skank\". Almost confrontationally experimental for their time, these cuts remain mindblowing. Packed with torrential collages of effects, they're perfect examples of the studioasinstrument approach to production. Perry wrenches everything he can out of the mixing desk, then throws yet more at it, creating cavernous percussion rolls and splattering them with the greasy crackles of frying chicken or bursts of lascivious bump and grind. The result is disorienting, weird and extraordinarily seductive. Reach just far enough and \"Cow Thief\"'s bricolage of several different songs, recorded in 1973, can even be seen as a precursor to electronic music's sampling and hiphop's recontextualization of the breakbeat. Still, all highfalutin ideas fly out of the window when you learn that the record's sole point was to take the piss out of fellow sound man Niney the Observer's shoes.  While capable of extreme oddness (both personal and sonic), Perry has always had a natural gift for working with singers. His skill is unmistakable on Jah Lion's \"The Lama (aka The Spiritual Whip)\", Prince Jazzbo's \"Penny Reel\", and Max Romeo's \"Fire Fe the Vatican\", but nowhere is it better displayed than on Susan Cadogan's \"Hurt So Good\", still one of the sexiest pieces of music ever committed to wax. Moving on through 1983's \"I Am a Madman\" to the title track of 2003's Grammywinning reggae album Jamaican E.T., it becomes evident that we'll probably never know the real Lee Perry, how sane he is, whether he really believes the things he says. It's not important, either, because, as great a creation as his persona may be, his music is infinitely better.  "}