{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9850/homepage_large.9604f688.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"RTX","title":"Western Xterminator","text":"  Since severing their romantic (and creative) partnership in 2001, Royal Trux's Neil Hagerty and Jennifer Herrema seem to have swapped artistic trajectories. On Trux classics like 1992's selftitled skullandbones album and 1993's Cats and Dogs, it was Hagerty who played the straightman role, offsetting Herrema's abrasive elocution and leavening the band's sometimesinscrutable avantblues bricolage with soulbaring acoustic serenades (\"Junkie Nurse\") and meaty FMradioready riffs. But where Hagerty's recent Howling Hex releases find him reverting to the lofi, foundsoundfuckery of Royal Trux's earliest releases, Herrema's new band RTX picks up where latterday Trux tracks like \"Waterpark\" left off i.e., sandwiched between Def Leppard and Mötley Crüe on a 1981 Monsters of Rock bill. Coming from an artist who'd spent over a decade revitalizing classic rock clichés in alien contexts, the straightup denimandleather posturing of RTX's 2004 debut Transmaniacon felt like an all too predictable progression (or rather regression), and the fact that it featured some rewrites of old Trux songs (\"Shockwave Rider\" became \"Joint Chief\", \"Fear Strikes Out\" begat \"PB+J\") carried the implication that Herrema was struggling for inspiration in the absence of her longtime foil. However, with its opening title track, Western Xterminator suggests a promising return to the Trux tradition of albumtoalbum aesthetic 180s instead of the expected highvoltage guitar squeals we get an immersing, opiumden torch song guided along slowly by bongos and flute flourishes, Herrema investing its Frenchfolksong melody with a fading diva's emptyashtray regret. But if this introduction presents a retreat from the heavy metal parking lot, the rest of Western Xterminator returns to the usual spot and sets up a permanent trailerhome in it, with the 70sStones sleaze of Herrema's former band all but vanquished for a fullon 80s headbanger's ball pitched halfway between Sunset Strip flash and New Wave of British Heavy Metal thrash. Good thing, then, that Herrema not only has the hair for the job, but the voice too stripped of the Trux's heroin haze, she can pretty much pass for Stephen Pearcy from Ratt (which could be why she rewrote \"Round and Round\" and called it \"Last Ride\"). Guitarist Jaimo Welch is her de facto Hagerty, though his playing is less informed by Ornette Coleman's theory of harmolodics than the Eddie Van Halen theory of widdlywiddlywiddly. He'd rather impress the burnouts sitting in the back rows of the L.A. Forum than the editors of The Wire, and more power to him: In the footstomp crunch of \"Balls to Pass\" you'll find all the good riffs missing from the last Darkness album, and with \"WoWo Din\" he makes a convincing argument that Sabbath's greatest moment wasn't \"Sweat Leaf\", but \"Symptom of the Universe.\"  RTX are wellpositioned to court an indierock populace that's become ever more comfortable embracing its inner hesher, but Western Xterminator's production is just obtuse enough less arena rock than a transistorradioed memory of arena rock to keep the band at a distance from the unironic mulletheads who'd probably dig their music the most. After all, you don't write a song like \"Restoration Sleep\" with its \"Pour Some Sugar on Me\"styled brassrail boogie and engagingly stoopid \"feels good!\" chorus unless you're aiming squarely for the Camaro crowd. RTX's brand of populist fistpump metal benefits from this sort of direct delivery, but more often than not, Herrema lets her voice recede into the effectspedaled riffs, rendering what should be the songs' focal point into a background sonic detail. \"Knightmare and Mane\", in particular, feels like a missed opportunity for a killer power ballad, as Herrema's phasedout vocals are too incomprehensible to elicit the raised lighters that its melancholic, grungy grind seems to warrant.  Herrema hasn't always needed special effects to give her voice presence check the more heartfelt performances on the Trux's 1995 album Thank You, like \"(Have You Met) Horror James?\" but her reliance on superfluous studio trickery all but guarantees that Western Xterminator's airplay will be confined to collegeradio when, with a more refined presentation, it could be blasting from the ZRock 101s of the nation. The latter scenario, of course, is contingent on Drag City blowing all its Joanna Newsom profits on a radio promoter, but it'd be nice if RTX could give us a chance to dream.  "}