{"label":" Sanctuary / Castle","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9855/homepage_large.41368051.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Pentangle","title":"The Time Has Come: 1967-73","text":"  Along with the Incredible String Band and Fairport Convention, Pentangle was one of the major pioneering forces to first put British folkrock on the map in the 1960s, and their distinctive hybrid of folk, blues, and jazz has for better and sometimes worse subsequently inspired countless musicians to follow their progressive trail. Despite their legion of disciples, however, their true influence has always been tempered by the fact that few groups could hope to duplicate Pentangle's unique chemistry or sheer instrumental prowess, attributes which are in lavish display on the mammoth 4xCD retrospective The Time Has Come: 196773. Pentangle's music has been frequently anthologized over the years, including confusingly enough on two separate compilations entitled Light Flight. And while it can't be said to be entirely comprehensive, The Time Has Come does provide a balanced portrait of the freewheeling group's sixyear career. Extensively illustrated and annotated, the collection features excerpts from each of their studio albums, remastered singles and Bsides, as well as the requisite passel of previously unreleased live tracks and rarities. Containing nearly five hours of music and packed with a variety of astonishing curios, the set ultimately manages to feel rather definitive, and does well to capture Pentangle in all their brilliance, selfindulgent excess, and period splendor. By the time Pentangle formed in 1967, guitarists Bert Jansch and John Renbourn were already wellestablished talents on the English folk scene. The two had previously issued an album together as a duo, utilizing what became known as a \"folk baroque\" fingerpicking style that drew heavily upon the influence of innovative British folk guitarist Davy Graham. Joining them to round out Pentangle was vocalist Jacqui McShee, who was also an experienced performer on the folk circuit, and the veteran jazz rhythm section of double bass player Danny Thompson and drummer Terry Cox.  Once so assembled, Pentangle's core quintet were capable of an extraordinary versatility, and quickly proved themselves equally adept at covering 17th century English folk ballads, Charles Mingus' \"Goodbye Pork Pie Hat\", or the Jaynetts girlgroup classic \"Sally Go Round the Roses\". Moreover, Pentangle's ability to transverse musical boundaries soon became so seamless and organic as to be almost invisible, as when Renbourn delicately weaves an exotic sitar line through the group's version of the traditional English ballad \"Cruel Sister\". And though many of their bold stylistic moves have since been rendered into coffeehouse cliché by lesser talents, there are still many moments of dazzling invention and surprise to be discovered all across The Time Has Come.  The collection's first two discs are assembled chronologically, interspersing album tracks with various outtakes, BBC sessions, and nonalbum rarities. This arrangement surely caused the set's curators to make some tough calls and quirky decisions, such as leaving off the studio versions of many of Pentangle's better known songs (\"Let No Man Steal Your Thyme\", \"Sally Free and Easy\") and drastically editing down their 1970 sidelong epic \"Jack Orion.\" Nevertheless these two discs do an admirable job illustrating the gradual evolution of Pentangle's remarkable chemistry. On early tracks \"Waltz\" and \"Travelling Song\" both recorded at the time of Pentangle's 1968 debut album the group sound tentative, feeling its way around incorporating its diverse sonic elements.  By the time of such 1969's Basket of Light and 1970's Cruel Sister, however, Pentangle were operating as an incomparable whole, with McShee's frequently sublime vocals perfectly complemented by Jansch and Renbourn's atmospheric guitar work. The group's easy compatibility is particularly evident on the set's live material, such as on a version of Basket of Light's \"Hunting Song\" which was recorded at BBC for John Peel's Top Gear.  Longtime Pentangle fans will likely have something of a mixed reaction to The Time Has Come's third disc, which consists of a live concert recorded at Royal Festival Hall in June, 1968. Twelve of the concert's songs were originally released on 1968's Sweet Child double album, and seven others were included on a 2001 remaster of the album. Here the tracks have been resequenced and cleaned up, with much of the betweensong banter and applause removed. Though this remains a solid performance, this set might feel a tad redundant to anyone already familiar with Sweet Child, and more impatient listeners might find themselves wishing the producers had also seen fit to edit out a bass solo or two. The Time Has Come reserves its real treasure trove for last, as the final disc is entirely filled with previously unreleased material, most of which is of an uncommonly high caliber. Several of these unearthed tracks were recorded live for various TV broadcasts between 197072, and find the group at their most dynamic and expansive. In fact, on some of these performances, Pentangle begin to almost resemble an British response to the Grateful Dead, an impression that is further amplified by their live version of the longtime Dead staple \"Cold Rain and Snow\". This comparison is likely most valid on the live, 19minute interpretation of the group's signature \"Pentangling\", whose electric figures and wayfaring improvisations can sound much more in line with the Avalon Ballroom than the English countryside.  Most curious of all is the set's inclusion of not one but two title works from film soundtracks, \"Tam Lin\" and \"Christian the Lion\", that were digitally pieced together from individual verses used as in the films as a narrative device. Needless to say, the practice of using ethereal folk songs as a cinematic framing device is one that has sadly gone out of fashion, and the presence of these offbeat tracks reinforces the impression of Pentangle as a group who were wholly and intrinsically of their time. And though echoes of the group's artistic legacy still resonate in Jansch's current solo work, and in the music of such younger artists as Espers, Devendra Banhart, and Vetiver, The Time Has Come should stand as further evidence that we'll not soon see Pentangle's like again.  "}