{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9856/homepage_large.4a9721dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"SJ Esau","title":"Wrong-Faced Cat Feed Collapse","text":"  The Anticon label is usually home to unorthodox hiphop and electronic music, but they've made an exception for Why? cohort SJ Esau's first labeldistributed solo album. Though Sam Wisternoff began his music career rapping in his hometown of Bristol, England (at age eight, no less), under the SJ Esau tag he focuses on atmospheric indie rock that borrows from the Scottish postrock scene and Hood. A few moments stand out usually by impressing with a unique or unexpected texture but for the most part, it seems Wisternoff could stand to tighten the cclamp on his head, as pictured on the album's cover. Focused melodies simply don't live here, which makes it hard to keep coming back to even the better arrangements. Wisternoff's reedy voice isn't bad, but he gives himself little to work with on songs like \"Wears the Control\" and \"The Wrong Order\", which seem far more concerned with creating a sound rather than doing something with that sound. The latter of the two takes textural experimentation too far, including a loop of some sort of scraping noise that drives me up the wall. Promise peeks out of first song \"Cat Track (He Has No Balls)\", which begins inauspiciously with Wisternoff playing the exact same melody he's singing on his acoustic guitar, but briefly breaks into a careening midsection led by a daggersharp violin phrase that sounds like it could have come off a mid1970s King Crimson record. It veers back to an acoustic arrangement before a thrashing coda, manipulating pop form in an interesting way while wielding sharp dynamic shifts, but it's ultimately not terribly memorable.  Wisternoff's tendency to double his vocals with keyboard, guitar or violin is one of the things that holds the album back. It's partly because the tunes are too basic and static, but it's also the fact that there's usually only one thing going on at a time, and one thing isn't enough with this kind of music. \"Geography (Donkey Dancing in the Bath)\" only gets interesting when he hands the vocal melody off to a solo trumpet and ramps up the arrangement with bashing drums.  The best song on the album is the one that doesn't feel like it belongs here: \"Halfway up the Pathway\" is a solo acoustic number recorded in the most rudimentary fashion, but it has a fantastic vocal with a Syd Barrett feel and Wisternoff's strumming is spry and lively. It's just about perfect, but Wisternoff doesn't seem to agree, uselessly appending a coda that consists of the rest of the song annoyingly chopped to bits and mixed up.  Though it has its moments, they're not enough to save WrongFaced Cat Feed Collapse from mediocrity. Wisternoff certainly knows how to handle timbre and tone, but without marrying them to song, he's created an overly uniform record that doesn't stick.  "}