{"label":" Mummy","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9854/homepage_large.8390d991.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"J Dilla","title":"Ruff Draft","text":"  James Dewitt Yancey probably toasted the arrival of 2003 with a champagne bottle in one hand and a middle finger aimed over his shoulder on the other. 2002 was the year he abandoned his previous recording moniker Jay Dee so Jermaine \"J.D.\" Dupri wouldn't get his phone calls by mistake, as well as the year the newlyrechristened J Dilla left his longtime group Slum Village and set his sights on getting some of that major label exposure. Unfortunately, MCA Records wound up permanently shelving his two major projects (a stillunreleased solo album and a record he produced for fellow Detroiters FrankNDank, the oftbootlegged 48 Hours), while the most prominent album he had a hand in Common's Electric Circus, which featured his coproduction on several tracks was widely ridiculed by critics and fans as a pretentious mess. Maybe he took it all in stride, but the first album of new material that Dilla released in 03 didn't entirely show it. There was a noticeable sense of subsurface tension in his Ruff Draft EP: Dilla's spoken intro crackles with a certain reactionary intensity when he states that the record is \"real live shit...sounds like it's straight from the motherfuckin' cassette,\" and the increasingly raw, psychedelicsoul tone that his beats set feels like a subtle but deliberate shift in perspective. Even the name hints at a plan to redraw his schematics and push away from what might have been the onset of an industrybullshitdriven creative rut. The fact that Ruff Draft was pressed only on vinyl and distributed in limited numbers meant that this shift wouldn't manifest itself to a wider extent until his Madlib collaboration Champion Sound. By the time that album was released later in 03, the rawness had fully set in to his warm, soulclap funk, so Ruff Draft eventually wound up one of independent hiphop's great lost transitionalphase documents. It's been over a year since Dilla's passing, and since his legend continues to spur a demand for underheard, rare, or repurposed material, Stones Throw's reissue of Ruff Draft comes at an ideal time. Considering where Dilla was at during this record's creation, honing and refining a more undergroundhardcore edge to his craft, it's not a huge stylistic leap back from his most recent output. But if this EP stands up as more than just a filledin blank, it's probably because what few songs there are at the core only eight fulllength tracks, with all but two under 2:45 tend to pack a lot of heat into a little space. Anyone who picked up last year's Stones Throw comp Chrome Children has already heard the highlight of this set, a dopehaze banger called \"Nothing Like This\". The track rides on a backwards acidrock guitar loop, Dilla's haltingly sungshouted, methodically rhythmic lovestruck testifying (\"youshowedme, the, light, uhhuh/gottohave, you, right, away\") and a massive beat that trades his tendency for billowysoft percussive dampening for a bassbindestroying Goliath stride. For something that only lasts two and a half minutes and feels about a minute shorter, it's instantly captivating.  And there's a handful of other tracks that could easily justify a purchase for any Dilla fiend: \"Reckless Driving\" features the producer/MC quoting Biggie's \"Hypnotize\" and spitting windowsdown whipappeal verses; the production relies heavily on a droning spacegoth synth, which gives the track a retro feel but retro when, exactly, feels elusive. East Coast hardcore tribute \"Make'em NV\" which samples verses from M.O.P.'s \"Ante Up (RobbingHoodz Theory)\" captures the early 90s NYC production grime that turned souljazz and fusion into some of the most sinister, cinematic hiphop ever made, but does it with a vibe/xylophone sound that strongly resembles the incidental music from \"The Flinstones\". And \"Wild\" is a ridiculous gimmick turned moment of brilliance: a raspy little kid belts Slade's \"Cum on Feel the Noize\" over a stitchedtogether drum break that sounds sick in both senses of the word, but once the borderlinesubliminal murmur of the electric piano and snapclap rhythm come in, everything falls into place it's as though the toddlersung \"Guns of Brixton\" interlude from the Clash's Sandinista! suddenly transformed into a lofi circa99 Neptunes demo.  But even with a few other quality club/sittingaroundinyourbasementgettinghigh tracks (especially \"Crushin' (Yeeeeaah!)\", which turns his Ummahera smoothness into slick let'sfuck rowdiness), Ruff Draft still feels like a limitededition collectorsonly curiosity. Even with some previously unreleased bonus tracks and an extra disc featuring instrumental versions of all the songs, it's a bit slight on content. (Not to mention that using two CDs for under an hour's worth of music seems like the definition of pointless but at least it costs the same as a single disc.) And even though Dilla's ability on the mic fits comfortably enough into the tone of his productions icedout club rap buried under a layer of static and noise that makes it feel like a bootleg 4thgeneration version (\"straight from the motherfuckin' cassette\" is right) it sometimes comes across as a bit halfformed, especially in light of his subsequent, somewhat more polished performances on Champion Sound. Still, there's something about eBaybait and elusive micropressings that practically demand to be listened to once they reach the mass market. And whether or not Dilla would've eventually reissued this if he hadn't passed away, having another, scarcelyheard handful of his tracks readily available to a wider audience isn't something that can be easily dismissed, no matter how sparse the offerings are. Now all we need to do is get someone to call up MCA's people and get them to crack open their vaults. "}