{"label":" Trekky Records","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9876/homepage_large.39fc2b47.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Lost in the Trees","title":"Time Taunts Me","text":"  Ambition runs high on Ari Picker's first record as Lost in the Trees, a brief but intensely lush collection of seven songs that last just 26 minutes yet still feels like a fulllength album. Picker's projects all seem to have something big about them he's also in a band called the Never, who last year released an album called Antarctica that came with a fullcolor picture book illustrated by bandmate Noah Smith. On this one, the big things are the orchestrations. Though he's only working with a small group of musicians, including a string quartet, the final product sounds a lot larger, mostly thanks to studio trickery. Opener \"Lost in the Snow\" begins with fractured programming soon joined by sweeping strings and a choral countermelody that's likely sampled or sequenced. It's a huge, eargrabbing intro for a song that, once the vocals come in, is itself almost impossibly tiny just Picker's gentle tenor dueting with Jessica Smith's jazzy bass trombone. The vocal section almost feels like an interlude for the symphonic grandeur that surrounds it, and the coda returns the strings back before pulling away for a piano that embodies the winter theme of the lyrics. The album isn't mixed continuously, but it has the feel of a suite because of the way Picker builds his songs from contrasting sections and keeps the sound consistent across the record. Consistency can work against an album, of course, but Picker gets around this by introducing alien textures into the sound at strategic points that immediately stand out for their otherness. For instance, \"Tall Trees\" kicks in with woodwinds riding a brisk, clipped beat, and then pulls the strings in around it, with a funky cello part underlying a very Vivaldi composition for the other strings. The woodwind texture flows into the next song, \"I've Always Loved the Fall\", which in turn splits open the center of the album (and its own pastoral atmosphere) with a decidedly ungodly church organ passage.  There are a lot of influences at play here. \"If You're Afraid of the Dark\" is basically an ornate folk tune, replete with beautiful male/female harmonies, while \"For Elizabeth & John\" could've wandered from a Carter Burwell or Mark Mothersbaugh score. Looking at the cover art, it seems pretty clear Kid A's had at least a few spins in Picker's house, and you can hear the influence here and there in the electroacoustic mix.  Picker's ambition mostly pays off on Time Taunts Me, a very promising debut that seems stuffed with ideas. Picker has the talent, clearly his biggest shortcoming at this point is that his arrangements are often more memorable than the vocal meat of his songs. Even so, that's as much a reflection on how sharp those arrangements are as anything else, and this is ultimately a solid collection of orchestral indie pop from a guy with the potential to be very good indeed.  "}