{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13604/homepage_large.21e54fb0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Matthew Herbert","title":"Score","text":" Though he first earned a rep as a protomicrohouse producer possessed of an uncommonly witty sampler, Matthew Herbert has become best known for records that sample a hundred people eating apples and then turns the crunches and slurps into a techno track with lyrics by John Pilger. So you may be surprised to learn that Score is just that, a collection of music Herbert penned for a series of independent films from 1997 to 2007. Come to it expecting the man's usual mix of musique concrètestyle sampling, torch songs, and leftist politicking, and you might walk away disappointed. On the other hand, I thought the photo of a collapsed house on the back cover was just Herbert punning on this album's lack of beats, until I noticed in the credits that it's taken from postJuly War Lebanon in 2006. No matter the venue, Herbert can't resist a little social commentary, even subtly.Score is more in line with Goodbye Swingtime, Herbert's somewhat unfairly maligned big band jazz album from 2003, albeit minus the guest singers that were there to liven up what was otherwise a very faithful, if somewhat arch, homage to the swing era. Since the music on Score both pre and postdates Goodbye Swingtime, it's clear that jazz has long been an abiding interest for Herbert. (Of course, that was also more than evident from his house singles.) His métier here is postwar Rat Pack vehicles and Cold War thrillers, their scores a mix of thencurrent cocky American jazz cool and a continental European black market intrigue and lovelorn postLuftwaffe ennui. \"Café de Flore (Trio Reprise)\" is an accordionled sketch of a Parisian cobblestone square, and \"Rivoli Shuffle\", a nimble dance for piano and brass, is the spitting musical image of a twobit, cardshuffling hustler in a cheap sharkskin suit. Herbert's musical research into the era means his orchestral jazz is certainly competent, but often the album is at its best on tracks like the analogue Aphex Twin wistfulness of \"End\" and album opener \"Funereal,\" a mournful miniature for strings that does a fine job of evoking a rain soaked graveyardjust right for opening or ending your film noir. At 10:29, \"Rendezvous\" is both the album's most ambitious and most idiosyncratic piece of music. A barely audible ambient burbling of a beat lurks in the background throughout, topped with fullon choral writing for a male and female ensemble that shifts unexpectedly into tense moments of constricted techno, like a high Catholic mass suddenly breaking into a Clear Records 12inch. The album's low point is a 2001 take on \"Singin' in the Rain\", fine as a muted instrumental jazz reading of the cinematic chestnut but made silly by the buzzes, hums, and glitchy CD skips and stutters that Herbert adds as windowdressing. It's like a Hollywood agent's idea of \"futuristic jazz.\" On the other hand, the guitar of \"Blood and Hair\", likewise poked and prodded with his computer, is flush with enough Galouises smoke and digital unease to suggest it might be a good choice for a modern remake of The Third Man. (Note to Hollywood: Please don't remake The Third Man. You'd probably cast Vince Vaughn as Harry Lime or something.) Like 1996's 100 Lbs., reissued last year, Score will be something of a curio to anyone who hasn't already swallowed the Herbert koolaid or who isn't a already a ravenous consumer of soundtracks and scores. Unlike the bumpandflicker of Herbert's earliest deep house singles collected on 100 Lbs., however, Score won't even satisfy the beat heads, though if you were an enterprising, Abletonowning mp3jay, you could edit the two together and probably get something close to the man's more recent albums, where the slickly realized jazz pastiches and Nelson RiddleonaTescosbudget strings are deployed as part of Herbert's lush dance grooves. But though we may yet learn that these seemingly straightforward setpieces and pretty musical backdrops are actually made not from actual strings but from Herbert sampling a duck's quacks or the shouts of an antiwar demonstration, Score is perhaps the least conceptual, most functional thing the man has ever put his name to. Maybe rent the flicks first. "}