{"label":" Emperor Norton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1000/homepage_large.66083631.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Buffalo Daughter","title":"I","text":" In the past, Buffalo Daughter have often found themselves in the unfortunate position of being \"one of the other Japanese bands.\" Though they share a sound with some of the other Japanese artists to penetrate the U.S. indie rock scene, they lacked Cornelius' vision, never came close to the touch and refinement of Takako Minekawa, and as for Shonen Knife, well... okay, they do just about everything better than Shonen Knife. But still, though they've consistently come up with a great track or two per release, Buffalo Daughter has never distinguished themselves in any way. They're as eclectic as their peers, but something has been missing on previous releases for Grand Royal. After hearing this, their first record for Emperor Norton, I've finally figured out what it is: the songs. Buffalo Daughter produce exceptionalsounding tracks that cover a wide spectrum of genres, texture and mood; they perform well on a variety of instruments, and their voices blend nicely most of the time. But they don't write great songs too often, they don't even write good ones. Though they're genrehopping like mad, and making all the sounds pretty, if you have people singing and you're adhering to pop structure, you best be writing some songs. So as usual, I has few standouts. The first of these is the fantastically catchy riffrocker \"28 Nuts.\" After an extended intro that sounds like the band tuning up in front of an orchestra, the crunch takes over, and Buffalo Daughter sound like the Primitives with the vocals pitched down an octave. Forget that the crude twochord riff is the mirror image of the hook that drove \"Great Five Lakes\" this is still a great track. Also fine is the title track, which does away with the electricity and opts for dreamy Brazilian pop, complete with some heartwarming flute. A halfnotch below these is the midtempo, harmonyladen \"Mirror Ball,\" which has the prettiest melody on the album but eventually wears out its welcome as it passes the sevenminute mark. \"Discotheque du Paradis\" is an engaging slice of rollerrink pop with an unexpected Kraftwerk sample. The rest of I displays admirable diversity, but no great songs. The lumbering \"Earth Punk Rockers\" has a proggy cast to it and wants to sound like the Flaming Lips' \"The Gash,\" but ultimately the poor singing and nonexistent melody sink it. \"Robot Sings (As If He Were Frank Sinatra with a HalfBoiled Egg and the Salt Shaker on a Breakfast Table)\" has a niceenough title and, yes, vocodered vocals, but the limp structure just kind of lays there. All told, I is far from a terrible record, but Buffalo Daughter only skim the surface of greatness, flirting with a myriad of styles without ever perfecting any of them. "}