{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9887/homepage_large.57325cb3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"XBXRX","title":"Wars","text":" There's a surprise at the start of XBXRX's third album: a fourminute song. The Oakland band's tunes rarely last longer than two minutes, so opening with the relatively epic \"Center Where Sight\" could be seen as a kind of \"we're serious now\" statement. And Wars does turn out to be the most serious XBXRX record so far. Intricate structures, jazzy stopstarts, and dramatic crescendos all suggest a new level of craft from this caffeinated posthardcore outfit. This is still XBXRX though Wars is, after all, only 27 minutes long and the band's raging momentum and endless energy persist. No extended solos or instrumental wankoffs here; this is resolutely a slamming punk record, just a little less Black Flag and a little more Minutemen than before. Hurtling forward with no interest in subtlety or restraint, XBXRX's music is as exhausting to listen to as it must be to play. But Wars is a step forward for a band who crashed out of the gate as teenagers and shows no signs of burnout a decade later. The best songs here push the group's frantic chops ahead without losing the essential noisewall. The crushing pound of \"Freezing Water\" finds a midpoint between Lightning Bolt's robotic fury and the Jesus Lizard's dark drool. \"Here to Ruin the Party\" sounds like an outtake from the Minutemen's What Makes a Man Start Fires?, as rubbery bass, slashing guitar, and cryptic slogans fly by at hardcore speed. The album's peak comes on \"Minds\", a proggy sprint filled with knifesharp rhythms. Despite the new twists and turns, XBXRX still have just a single gear, and the band's permanent fastforward mode sometimes flattens what could be distinct peaks and valleys into a onedimensional wash. Sonically, XBXRX's palette is similarly limited. The fiery vocals and jolting guitar rarely vary in tone, even when the songs seem to blatantly beg for it. The result is an album that, at under a halfhour, still feels too long. One exception to the band's loudfast rules is closer \"Ear Ever Hear\", a more spacious piece whose disconnected riffs and sliced rhythms make the group sound like a baby Deerhoof. That intriguing move bodes well for XBXRX's next step a purported \"experimental improvisationbased album\" but there are enough new ideas throughout Wars to make the band worth watching, regardless of future plans. "}