{"label":" Achord","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9884/homepage_large.31195e34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Best of Seth","title":"Sparrow Trout Heart Sprout","text":"  Akron/Family make a lot of music. Since recording their selftitled debut for Young God Records in late 2004, the quasiBrooklyn group has released a split with the Angels of Light and a 35minute EP. Their second LP is due in September. Before acting as Michael Gira's band for the second side of the split, they backed him on Angels of Light's Sings Other People and the forthcoming We Are Him. What's more, this is a band that works best (and mostly) on the stage: Last year alone, they played more than 200 shows, most of those happily barreling past the twohour mark. They've released a halfdozen handmade EPs, too. Maddeningly creative and enthusiastically prolific, Akron/Family loves being a band. Familyman Seth Olinsky made Sparrow Trout Heart Sprout a 3xCD set recorded between fall 2004 and winter 2005 with his first MBox, a personal copy of ProTools, and a relaxed job at a new Brooklyn coffee shop. A/F was waiting for their first record to be released and for their first national tour. Almost three years ago, these 42 songs let Olinsky occupy the interim. Then, on the eve of tour, he hurriedly pressed 25 CDR copies. Two years later, two friends convinced him to let them remix the tapes 163 minutes of music, or a drop in the Akron bucket and package them as Sparrow Trout Heart Sprout. Indeed, it's important to remember that Sparrow was never intended for release, let alone to serve as a solo statement from one of the brightest lights in American music. Instead, it's a humble set of songs, a very intimate collection from a Penn's Woods boy living life and making music in the big city, dealing with his relationship troubles and his acceptance of a finite role in an infinite cosmos through song. Olinsky builds a universe of ideas, undeveloped though they may be, and ensconces himself in the middle. Some of the guitar solos are misses, some of the lyrics are cutely obtuse, and some of the lofi production demands a second opinion. But, here, Olinsky is not worried with landing a single hook as much as he is experimenting with influences and inspirations: Elementary anecdotes and declarations (\"You are the saddest turtle in the world,\" goes one gem) become Zenshaped reflections on existence. Simple folk songs for acoustic guitar reach for the atmosphere, colored by the longtone kaleidoscopic ideas of Terry Riley and the free improvisation influences of Derek Bailey and William Parker. Plaintive, imagerich confessionals come peppered with sketches (an early version of Akron anthem \"Blessing Force\" shows promise, if not development) for the harmonies that have become a Familial definition. In its way, Sparrow Trout Heart Sprout mirrors Panda Bear's solo debut, Young Prayer, as both a wideopen musical experiment and a pragmatic coping mechanism. Love songs are met by damaged breakup blues, and those are surrounded by a Zenlike acquiescence to a broader reality. A fivetrack stretch on Sparrow, the third disc, encompasses all three modes: There's a song of despair, one of adoration and three of ecumenical considerations, including a reference to Shambala founder Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche and the naturally damaging effects of a crowded world. On one track, Olinsky leads with three minutes of unresolved improvisation for guitar, percussion, organ and flute. They fade as he sings, \"I'm going to come to terms with what's going on\" 10 times. As if to himself in a waking moment, he finally sings, \"And enjoy it.\"  Life isn't perfect, and as if by allegory neither are these tracks. Of course, this isn't for everyone: Some of the ideas here are errant and could benefit from a proper studio, collaboration or deletion altogether. If you love Akron/Family's occasional sense of bombast and dynamic juxtaposition, you may not find much value in 42 tracks of quiet home recordings, especially since it still feels like Olinsky's trying to convince himself to sing out here. And if you've ever written either Akron/Family's nebulously spiritual lyrics or sonic enthusiasm (read: jamming) off as puerile, Sparrow Trout Heart Sprout won't change your mind. But that's not the point. \"With the crowds, with the birds/ I am less the reminder of propriety or qualities/ And more the reminder of life!/ And go on the square for my own sake,\" says Olinsky on \"Where the Grass Tales Me\", an extended riff on Whitman's \"Song of Myself.\" On Sparrow Trout Heart Sprout, he's riding instinct and trying to feel good about himself and his ideas. In a universe so big, buying in is always completely optional. "}