{"label":" Everloving","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9897/homepage_large.bcefa243.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Cornelius","title":"Sensuous","text":"  The 1997 Matador release of the stillgreat Fantasma established Cornelius (Keigo Oyamada) as the farEast posterboy for indierock globalization. As the most recognizable representative of downtown Tokyo's ShibuyaKei movement (also responsible for Pizzicato Five, Buffalo Daughter and Fantastic Plastic Machine), Oyamada’s Becklike star potential and wildly creative imagination led to a stateside buzz alltoorare for Japanese musicians. But a release schedule that includes fiveyear windows between albums isn't the best way to maintain hype. It was 2002 before the followup Point boiled Fantasma down to its essence: a wonderful fusion of rubbery, acoustic microhouse rhythms. With another five years now having passed, Sensous represents yet another step forward for Oyamada’s unique headphone pop. It’s not quite the departure that Point was from Fantasma, but it feels like a natural next step.Sensuous opens with Oyamada revisiting one of Point's main techniques: composing songs with the individual sounds kept clearly separate. His fascination with the hifi stereophonic demonstration records of the 1950s and 60s the ones that presented the full range of the stereo spectrum through whirring, buzzing sound experiments finds its full and rewarding realization here, but in function more than form. Often on Sensous, as on Point, it often feels as though Oyamada starts by writing normal songs, but then inserts sounds into the places where there are none, erases the original melody, and keeps the music's negative. The title track is a meditative series of plucked guitar strings not completely unlike something you'd hear on Four Tet's Rounds phased between the left and right channels. But this initial sense of serenity quickly gives way to the more recognizable bustle of \"Fit Song\". It replaces the sonorous acoustic with the muted, clipped strum of an electric guitar, which provides the rhythmic bed for the first minute of the song, as bass drums and hihats bounce around with Oyamada’s singleword incantations (\"just,\" \"fit,\" \"click\"). The song feels like a stylized metropolitan soundtrack, but its video (which is included on the disc) suggests a more modest milieu that reflects the song's senses of humor and wonder. Syncing the movements of typically inanimate objects to the music, the video, like the album, is indulgent and geometric: sugarcubes form steps for a pair of spoons to climb, toothbrushes dance in a circle, the contents of a coin purse form a floating infinity symbol.  \"Fit\" also marks the record's first appearance of Oyamada's favorite instrument of late (and, it should be noted, a point of friction for many listeners): a spacy, sonorant synthesizer that provides a soft and windy counterpoint to the skipping stones all around it. Later on the irresistable \"Beep It\", the synth serves a newwavier rhythmic purpose, with Oyamada's monosyllabic mojo more resembling the sounds of a retrofuturistic aerobics class, and \"Music\" gradually introduces the instrument into its melange of chirping guitars and melismatic vocals, lending the song a fluffy, spaceage buoyancy.  Sequenced after the copymachinesampling \"Toner\", \"Watadori\" feels like an extended feverdream from a nap under an office desk. Multiple layers of softjazz guitar tick off and ascend higher and higher, coalescing into busybutgentle treblebuzz, the equivalent of twenty different CTIlabel records played at the same time. Oyamada's newfound predilection for the oftcriticized and elevatored music is most fully realized on Breezin'\", an inventive interpolation of the jazzpop standard made famous by Gabor Szabo and later, George Benson. The song feels like perfect source material for Oyamada to work with, and while he thoroughly launders it of its core melodic structure, he manages to maintain its, well, breeziness. Like an installation piece on a constant loop, ascending threenote synth runs and chimes provide a chilly melodicism as the song works its way, over and over, to a surprisingly lilting payoff. Its doppelganger, \"Gum\", emerges later, with his vocals pingponging over a punkmetal guitar drone previously explored on Point's \"I Hate Hate\". Sensuous ends with a second, even lessexpected cover: a faithful update of the Rat Pack standard \"Sleep Warm\", on which Oyamada augments Frankie and Dean’s maudlin sentimentality with his own vocodered vocals and loud, trilling synth flourishes. While this version certainly would be tough to fall asleep to, its albumclosing position makes it feel more like a filmclosing credit roll, similar to The White Album’s \"Good Night\". Now, apparently, we just have to wait five more years for the sequel.  "}