{"label":" Figment","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9899/homepage_large.bffca991.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Sarah Nixey","title":"Sing, Memory","text":"  \"This is Sarah Nixey talking,\" goes the opening line of Sarah Nixey's first solo album. It's not the most promising beginning, bringing to mind Bart Simspon's Al Gore doll that says, \"You are hearing me talk.\" She goes on to talk about the record you're about to hear over a soundtrack that could just as well welcome you to Epcot as her debut solo album. Mercifully, most of the rest of the record is solid dancepop rather than a running narration. Nixey is best known as the voice of Black Box Recorder, a vessel for the morbid satirical musings of former Auteur Luke Haines and a strangely sensual foil for John Moore's minimal, plasticine musical environments. Haines' old Auteurs mate James Banbury is Nixey's primary partner in crime here, cowriting most of the album with her and providing the slinky Euro sound that permeates it. On her own, Nixey seems more concerned with making a genuine pop record than needling English society, though some of the archness of her band does rub off, especially in \"Beautiful Oblivion\", where she sets lines like, \"I see the good in everyone/ Believe in fate,\" against lines like, \"I lock the doors, stay at home all night long/ Keeping safe,\" over an Annieish neodisco groove. One of the things I've always loved about Nixey's voice and one of the reasons she's perfect for Black Box Recorder is her utter Englishness. The thick accent, the deadpan delivery, the fortitude in the face of senselessness; it's all there whenever she opens her mouth to sing, and that poise works in her favor on the most upbeat material here. She sounds so in control over these pulsing beats it's almost unsettling, like she should maybe be losing her breath here. Nixey takes one of her best lyrical turns on \"The Collector\", which at first sounds like pretty standard trappedinaweboflove fare. But it slowly reveals itself to be a lyrical retelling of the John Knowles book (later a Terence Stamp film) of the same name, about a man who catches butterflies, locking away their beauty behind glass, then decides to do the same with a woman.  Where the album usually slips is when it strays too far from sinewy, shiny dancepop. \"Hotel Room\" tries to get a little heavy with the formula, bringing in pentatonic riffs that only hobble the song and relying on a chorus that collapses under its wouldbe anthemic weight. \"Endless Circles\" is a hamhanded attempt to create an affirmation for restarting your life that bogs down in a sungspoke prechorus and doesn't get its chorus far enough off the ground for it to go anywhere. The album's slower back end is generally less electrifying than the early going, though the cover of the Human League's \"The Black Hit of Space\" that closes the record is enjoyable.  Nixey proves she's a capable songwriter on her debut, even if it is an upanddown affair. Her voice is as magnetic as ever on these songs, but when the music takes a step back, she doesn't make a big impact without Haines' biting wit behind her. I suspect most of her fans will find plenty to enjoy here, but Black Box Recorder is still the first place to hear her.  "}