{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9915/homepage_large.58fc02fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"Blonde Redhead","title":"23","text":"  The 23rd hexagram of the I Ching is commonly known as \"Splitting Apart\", the point in a cycle where upheaval and disintegration enters in. The number 23, heralded by many an occultist and ragtag philosopher is often considered a magical number associated with change, the point in a series where new energy comes in to transform the preexisting condition and change the trajectory. A pop example of these esoteric notions, sadly, may be beloved New York indie rockers Blonde Redhead's seventh fulllength, 23. Ironically, this careerfacelift will most likely be the album that catapults this band to the red carpet more record sales, more exposure, higher profile tours. But serious Redhead heads familiar with the band's past forwardthinking oeuvre of magical melancholy will most likely catch a winceable whiff of disintegration. Somewhere underneath all the highgloss, ornamental swirlies and lacquered doilies are haphazardly camouflaged wellwritten songs. Essentially, 23 consists of simply tunes much in the vein of the international trio's high water mark, 2000's Melody of Certain Damaged Lemons, which found the once angularly screeching Sonic Youth/Unwoundworshiping postnowavers breathing deep and relaxing. The songs are similar to 2004's almost as good Misery Is a Butterfly, which took said gems of artpop blueness, but draped them in heavy orchestration and flirted with an almost toolush production. Consider Butterfly the unsubtle foreshadowing: Allegedly, somewhere during the course of the making of the selfproduced 23, Blonde Redhead got lost; unsure if their early mixes were going in the right direction the band brought in famed alternarock producer Alan Moulder (U2, Depeche Mode, My Bloody Valentine, Smashing Pumpkins) for a tuneup.  Whether the Pace twins Amedeo (voiceguitars) and Simone (drums) and foxy frontwoman Kazu Makino (voiceguitars) were already drifting toward overblown production before Moulder's involvement is unclear, but the producer's paws are everywhere. Take, for example, the title track \"23\" where seriously My Bloody Valentine–jonesing guitars and hypno whatzits whirl around Kazu's eyeswideshut ethereal unintelligible words, sounding like the coolest new shoegaze band on the block, but not the quirky subtle architects of wistfullness we've come to know and love. Another mistep would be \"The Dress\", where traceable stains of previous BR dancey hanky panky (such as Lemon's \"This Is Not\") gets mired in electro keyboard chirps and droning draftinthebrain synths. You can't blame a band for trying new things: \"Silently\" sounds like a beachwalking Blondie track with girlgroup harmonies; \"Publisher\" takes a Policelike drum attack and the trio's trademark minorchord guitar lines but pads them with odd electronica effluvium; and \"Top Ranking\" smooshes Jpop cutesiness against Tropicalia breeziness. And then there's \"Heroine\", with its honeyIshrunkKazuintoaBugglessong samba. Innovative? Sure, but when all the dayglo splatters, candycoated swooshes, and chocolate waterfalls obscure the individualized songs underneath, what's the point? 23 coulda/shoulda been the album where Blonde Redhead added on that much needed new wing to their mansion of moody cool craftsmanship. But instead, constructed right in front, blocking the entire view of the ornate and majestic building they took over 13 years to build, is a garish warbly and weird Frank Gehryesque monstrosity.  "}