{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9927/homepage_large.8c95fa40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: Twinight's Lunar Rotation","text":"  Numero Group's estimable Eccentric Soul series has always searched for worthy blips that never made it onto the popular radar, uncovering tales of failure that are often more compelling than the success stories that overshadowed them in their day. So at first glance Twinight seems like a strange fit you can't call yourself a soul enthusiast without knowing at least a little about the label. Twinight charted eight singles during its brief run in Chicago from the late 1960s into the early 70s, but a more detailed look reveals that seven of those were by Syl Johnson, and the 47 Twinight 45s that didn't sniff the chart remain almost hopelessly obscure. The imprint's inability to score other hits wasn't down to a lack of quality so much as a distracted ownership label heads Howard Bedno and Peter Wright were more concerned with their radio promotion business; the label was such a side project, they forgot to incorporate it under its first name, Twilight. The discovery that the name was already taken led to the minor tweak that gave us the label we thought we knew. There's no question that with Johnson in the fold, Bedno and Wright had a major talent at their disposal, as evidenced by hits like \"Come On, Sock It to Me\" and the epochal onetwo of \"Is it Because I'm Black\" and \"Concrete Reservation\". The Numero guys went allout for this comp, stuffing 40 prime Twinight nonhits onto two CDs, and it's a diverse bunch of songs. Twinight straddled the transition from soul to funk, and you get plenty of both, with a dash of psychedelia thrown in for good measure. There are also harmony groups that would've slotted comfortably next to the Temptations and the Four Tops if they could've obtained the airplay. The Notations, who had the label's only nonSyl charter with \"I'm Still Here\" (not on this comp), check in with a pair of outstanding slices of brassslathered harmony funk the success of other track here, \"Lonely People\", may have been hampered somewhat by the fact that it lifts the horn part from Spiral Starecase's \"More Today Than Yesterday\".  The Dynamic Tints are another group that could've been huge under the right circumstances. Their collaborations with Pieces of Peace, a funk band that played on a ridiculous number of sessions all over Chicago, are astounding psychedelic soul workouts in the Norman Whitfield mode. \"Rosemarie\" is especially mindblowing, busting in with biting fuzz guitar and alternating tradeoff verses with sweetly harmonized choruses that rub surprisingly well against the clattering funk rhythm section. It's hard to imagine a harmony group in that era not being at least a bit influenced by the Tempts, and the Kaldirons' \"You & Me Baby\" could be mistaken for a lateperiod Eddie Kendricks track if you weren't listening too closely.  The label had shortlived relationships with a load of talented solo singers as well. Johnny Williams' \"Breaking Point\" has long been one of my favorite early 70s funky soul workouts, and it's nice to hear its wild and wiry lead guitar and thundering horn arrangement with such vibrantly remastered sound. John Colley, who cut one of the label's first singles under the name Stormy, exudes effortless cool on 1967's \"the Devastator\" as he selfmythologizes over a protofunk backing track. Velma Perkins, recorded by the label as a favor to her brother, DJ Al Perkins, in an example of what Bedno and Wright called \"friendola,\" gets her first wide release under that name hereher \"Yes, My Goodness, Yes\" and \"I'll Always Love You\" were originally pressed in absurdly small quantities that barely qualify as a proper release. \"My Goodness\" in particular rips, with frenetic drumming and melodic, Staxy guitar breaks backing up Perkins' pleading vocal.  Listening in the relative vacuum of the modern day, forty years removed from the events, it's hard to imagine all this music tanking so badly. The compilation takes its name from the old DJ term (back when DJs actually chose songs) for the graveyard timeslots when just about anything could get played provided the right person handed it to the guy at the turntable. For guys who were so adept at pushing things past the lunar rotation into the realm of hits, it's amazing how little success Bedno and Wright had breaking their very own records, especially when they were this good. This music hasn't been unearthed so much as restored to its rightful place in the light of day, and it makes this one of the strongest entries in possibly the very best ongoing soul reissue series out there.  "}