{"label":" Arena Rock","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9930/homepage_large.b79a62dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Germans","title":"Cape Fear","text":" If indie trends continue the way they've been so far this decade that is, entire blocs of bands emerging at a time from the woodwork to \"revive\" the tropes and styles pioneered approximately 20 years before them we could be in for a lot of groups like Toronto's Germans in the near future. That's not to say the era of bands ripping musical ideas and fashion sense from the Cure, Smiths, and Duran Duran is anywhere near a close, but the Germans' bearhug embrace of early 90s lofi and classic indie on debut Cape Fear sounds ahead of the handmedown curve. Of course, there's a catch. Whereas aping, say, twitchy postpunk or shiny 80s pop initially felt somewhat novel for a lot of bands this decade, the novelty's pretty tenuous for the Germans, especially considering that the music they're recycling never really died out or became unhip. In fact, many of Cape Fear's touchstones Pavement, Built to Spill, Modest Mouse, Sonic Youth remain forces to be reckoned with to this day, even if as a different incarnation. However, Cape Fear clearly evokes a particular period and style, as evidenced by a tinny song like \"Nature's Mouth\", where catchy lyrics espousing a slacker ethos evoke Slanted & Enchantedera Malkmus as markedly as Paul Banks first channeling Ian Curtis on \"Obstacle 1\". On most tracks though, the band weaves together multiple influences rather than directly copping one style. Opener \"Tiger Vacuum Bottle\" alternates between a colossal Dinosaur Jr. jam and a meeker yet still punchy verse driven by early Modest Mouse octave riffs. Even if not wholly reflective of the band's sound, there are a lot of GbV moments on the record that feature big arena rock energy siphoned through a modest garage rock sound, such as the rallying cry chorus of \"Franchise\" or murky, mumbled vocals on \"M. Bison\".  While the Germans' material forfeits a lot in originality, they do attempt to imprint their own unique mark on their favorite sounds. Unfortunately, they try this by fusing synths, keyboards, and other electronic gadgets to the classic guitar, bass, and drums setup. While the occasional keyboard line doesn't hurt a song like \"No Job\", the cybernetic closer \"Brown's\" ends the album on a strange note, haphazardly meshing squawking vocals and xylophones reminiscent of I'm From Barcelona with a cheap drum loop and lazy synth lines. Blame the mixing by MSTRKRFT or just the general urge so many bands today have to use every gizmo in the studio, but Cape Fear devotes about twothirds of its time establishing Germans as lofi retro a pretty dubious goal then pulls the rug out from under the listener with slapdash electroclash, essentially burying the time capsule immediately after exhuming it.  "}