{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9941/homepage_large.0059f015.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Silmaril","title":"The Voyage of Icarus","text":" A Midwestern Catholic youth retreat might not seem a likely point of origin for a mystical psychfolk act, particularly to those of us who were once obligated to attend such events. Yet it was at just such a retreat that the members of the longforgotten Milwaukee group Silmaril first assembled back at the dawn of the 1970s. Named after the sacred stones from J.R.R. Tolkien's mythological universe (thank you Wikipedia), Silmaril soon embarked together in a starcrossed attempt to unite their common passions for progressive British folkrock, Middle Earth lore, and Christianiaty. Led by the tormented eccentric Matthew Peregrine, aka Jim Boulet, the group recorded two albums worth of material in 197374 before disbanding and vanishing into obscurity. Now, in a rather remarkable bit of archeology, Locust Music has assembled The Voyage of Icarus, which compiles what are presumably the highlights from Silmaril's scarce body of work. The collection features material from Silmaril's lone selfreleased album Given Time or the Several Roads, as well as several tracks from their neverreleased followup No Mirrored Temple. As might be expected, much of this material exhibits many of the outsider hallmarks so peculiar to privately pressed albums of the era: handmade production, awkward flights of lyrical fancy, and a notable lack of prudent selfediting. At their best, however, Silmaril here are able to neatly translate Peregrine's strange, troubled visions into music of disarming simplicity and splendor. Though not exactly the Syd Barrettlike madcap this album's press materials might lead you to believe, there is little question Peregrine was a deeply conflicted artist and individual. The chief source of this conflict was his homosexuality, which needless to say ran contrary to his devoutly conservative religious beliefs. This internal schism seems to have fated Peregrine to a lifetime of painful soulsearching, and he soon became enamored with the controversial Catholic Pentecostal movement, whose charismatic services encourage speaking in tongues and the convulsive channeling of the Holy Spirit. Joining him in his quests as Silmaril were fellow Christian musicians Tom Tews, Michael San Filippo, multiinstrumentalist William Pint, and female vocalist Sharon Larke.  One certainly doesn't have to search hard to find evidence of Peregrine's inner turmoil within Silmaril's music. He comes close to spelling it out explicitly on such tracks as \"Velvet and Gold the Dancer\", on which he declares \"on the dark wind Satan's choir is riding\" and that \"the night and the day are sharply divided/ The day walks in freedom/ the night walks in chains.\" Even on the quieter, hymnlike pieces \"Windbridge\" or \"Not Enough\" Peregrine sounds restless and illatease, singing that \"light is not enough to quench the thirst\" and of \"how useless waking is.\"  As a live act, Silmaril would incorporate an arsenal of instruments that would include a moon guitar, a lightflashing synthesizer, and a healthy variety of flutes and recorders. On record, however, they opt for a simpler approach, augmenting Peregrine's acoustic songs with only the occasional flourish of sitar or pump organ. In many cases, as on the opening \"Poustinia\", it is Larke's voice that rings the loudest, which can be unfortunate since her vocals frequently betray the infernal Joan Baez influence that tends to so plague church choirs throughout the Midwest.  In the material Silmaril recorded for the unreleased No Mirrored Temple, Peregrine's songwriting voice grows progressively more apocalyptic, as he sows tracks like \"Lamb of God\" and \"Song of the Apocalypse\" with biblical prophesy. (And he gets right down to Left Behind brass tacks on the spoken word \"Revelation 13:11:18\".) This direction proved to be too much for Peregrine's bandmates, as San Filippo and Krukowski soon left the group. And though Peregrine and Pint continued to perform on the on the Renaissance Faire circuit, Silmaril was, for all practical purposes, over before it had begun. Eventually, Peregrine's music, art, and nomadic life directed him away from the church, and he sadly succumbed to AIDSrelated illness in the mid 90s at the age of 41. Period curiosity though it is, The Voyage of Icarus does a splendid job exhuming this intriguing chapter of the recent past, and restoring a glimmer to Peregrine and Silmaril's modest legacy.  "}