{"label":" Crammed Discs","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9934/homepage_large.854b5e0d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"20 Ways to Float Through Walls","text":"  Crammed Discs was founded in the 1980s and has enjoyed a long and venerable tenure as one of the most boldly eclectic independent labels around, stocking its catalog with music from all over the world without bothering to look for an ethnomusicological angle. This compilation of recent Crammed music follows in the tradition of the label's two recent Global Soundclash compilations of vault material from the 80s, jumping from continent to continent (fifteen countries in all) and style to style with intentional abandon. Thing is, all this music, be it from Macedonia or the U.S. or the Congo or Brazil, is so blurred and blended that it doesn't sound the least bit weird sequenced together on the same disc. It's more like twenty flavors of pop music; like rocky road or moose tracks or one of these other sundae flavors in the ice cream case, those flavors are all composed of varied ingredients, some ethnic, some technological, some theoretical, some pop. If there's an underlying political thrust to it, it's that governments that still treat borders like walls are swimming against the currents of art, culture, and information. So you get the swirling Saharan guitar and chanting of Tartit, one of the handful of Tuareg bands to break internationally of late flowing right into British electro/jazz/folk band Wise in Time, and it makes sense. The guitars in both songs play hypnotic patterns, and though they're very different in tone and timbre, the two recordings feel like logical companions with this common thread easing the transition. Brazilian songstress Cibelle gets together with Devendra Banhart for a light bossa nova cover of Caetano Veloso's \"London, London\" that begins acoustic and gradually passes through psychedelic flourishes into outright dub, with the two of them literally laughing all the way.  Some of the genre blends are brilliant. EuroBrazilian band Zuco 103 tosses Brazilian choral vocals descended from Sergio Mendes over an intense threeagainstfour groove that sounds like it came straight off an Ethiopian rock record from 1975 and it works so well you wonder why it took so long. The Eastern European bands included represent a small sampling of the traditionally influenced pop that's pouring from that part of the world these days. It makes sense that the music would be so exuberant these are, after all, people who spent almost half a century under oppressive communist regimes just aching for the chance to express themselves freely.  Taraf de Haïdouks' \"A Stork Crosses the Danube\" is a river of hand percussion and dazzling violin that bursts into a raging flood halfway through it's what we might have heard from Raymond Scott if he'd been born a gypsy. The Russ & Roc remix of Mahala Raï Banda's \"Morceau D'Amour/Spoitoresa\" opens with a haunting, melismatic male vocal singing nearly a cappella for over a minute before jumping into a jerky, beatdriven gypsy brass workout that features horns and violins alike playing at about nine thousand miles and hour and yet doing it with great artistry.  Konono No.1 and Kasai AllStars both drop in from the Congotronics series with electrified thumb pianos and makeshift amps blazing, but the most flattening thing on the disc is the wild spyfunk of \"Psychoscout\" by Belgium's Flat Earth Society, which merges big band jazz from the thirties with 70s soundtracks, vintage Eurojazz, and the freefunk of guys like Donald Byrd, Archie Shepp and Pharoah Sanders. While it's safe to say just about anyone could find something to like here, the inverse is also true: The hazy folk of France's Hugo and the superbreezy Brazilian pop of Apollo Nove and Bebel Gilberto aren't my kind of thing, but they have enough quality that they just might be yours. 20 Ways is definitely a solid compilation, but it also aspires to be a little more than just that. Beyond simply showing off a bit of the catalog for the uninitiated listener, this disc's compilers are trying to make a broader point about how pusillanimous genre distinctions and categories are and how meaningless borders can be. Is it a point that needs making today? I look at my newspaper and all the articles about hatefulness, malice, callousness, war, and brinksmanship, and I can't help thinking that a reminder of how alike we all are at our cores can never hurt.  "}