{"label":" Music Fellowship","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9943/homepage_large.3316d450.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Mike Tamburo and the Universal Orchestra of Pituitary Knowledge","title":"Ghosts of Marumbey","text":" Ghosts of Marumbey starts on land: A doleful resonator guitar moans wide and long over a stoic acoustic. This could score a film on the American Heartland a wide camera lens panning over grasslands and closing in on a small town in Kansas or Oklahoma. The resonator slide eventually starts smiling moments after the acoustic guitar takes the lead and lift, its ascending scale lighting an optimistic skyline.  But guitarists Mike Tamburo and Ken Camden offer this flash of innocence only to bury it immediately. Six minutes in, the floodgates swing open, and the drone that's been surfacing beneath turns bitter and greedy. Eventually, it swallows everything around it: Marumbey, after all, feels cosmic, infinite even. This is a record of extreme empirical and emotional breadth, its beautiful highs (like the blissful guitar line of the opener, \"Two Doors from the Corner\") and its savage lows (like \"Beneath the River\", the suffocating, exhausting drone it segues into) offering enough space for dozens of interlaced travails.  Such range is fitting, as Pittsburgh's Tamburo gathered sounds of 12 artists from as close as Louisville, Kentucky's Keenan Lawler to as distant as Honk Kong's Wilson Lee (aka Fathmount) after a lonely solo tour to form what he calls here the Universal Orchestra of Pituitary Knowledge. He improvised for hours with Lawler in Kentucky and sat in a Brooklyn loft with members of Bloody Panda while adding extreme lowend textures to one passage. Tamburo and Lee shipped unfinished files to one another with yousendit, while he and Brad Rose in Tulsa passed bits over Soulseek. When Tamburo finally set down to mix the album as one uncut piece last year, he was staring at 217 separate tracks collected piecemeal over seven months. A week of sleepless mixing later, he emerged with one of the year's most striking records, an impressively cohesive and demanding narrative through a lifetime of bright days and bad luck: If the wideeyed guitars of \"Two Doors From the Corner\" are birth, for instance, then subsequent phases are maturation, neardeath, deliverance, perseverance, curiosity, fear, death, and hopefully being remembered among the toils of the living. On every level, Ghosts is not your average avant album. While Tamburo certainly cultivates the spirit of John Fahey, Robbie Basho, and even Delta masters like Mississippi Fred McDowell, he employs his guitar technique only as an inlet into something much bigger than six strings. And while those remarkably saturated collagist drones that form the record's center bare the formidable influence of filmmakers Brion Gysin and Stan Brakhage and the intricate surround sounds of La Monte Young and Terry Riley, Ghosts is too grounded and focused to be written off as an experiment alone.The colossal roar of \"Beneath the River\" illustrates the panic slowly starting to sink in as drowning begins, just as the Krautlike rhythmic repetition of \"Six Minutes After Breathing\" shows the curiosityfilled survivor tensing with reentry anxiety. Not coincidentally, the last two track's are the album's quietest: Centered around a church bell, a persistent violin drone and minor, glitchy electronics fighting for air, \"And Death Will Be No Resting (Tigers Walk in Circles Around Their Dead)\" signals a slow, resistant decline that's smeared across the first minute of the closing title track. That's when Tamburo returns to guitar, this time unaccompanied. His playing is nervous and unsettled, rapid series of notes and concomitant dissonance marking the mood of a troubled wanderer arriving somewhere new and cold. With a minute left, those notes hit their fever pitch, and it feels like Tamburo is strangling his guitar. Finally, he lets go, finds a chord, strums it hard and dodges it. Then resolution, now silence. It's likely that this album's hero is finally dead. But if this is hearing him drown, it should make you stronger. "}