{"label":" Kemado","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9948/homepage_large.6e720e0b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"Priestbird","title":"In Your Time","text":" NYC rock trio Priestbird's debut album shows a maturity well beyond that of most bands' introductory work. Not to discredit their songwriting skills or adroit musicianship, but partially this is because, technically, this is their second record. They began as the mostly postrocked, sometimes chamberrocked and metallicized Tarantula A.D., who released an EP and the crazy eclectic Book of Sand album. Not sure why they changed their name the band still consists of the same three multiinstrumentalists who rock guitar, bass, sarod, cello, piano, organ, banjo, spoons, and drums among them but hopefully it wasn't for disassociation of their past. The primary fault with Book of Sand was a tendency to overdo the cuttingandpasting of genres: sometimes you just wanted the haunting strings to stick around and totally encapsulate you before the Sabbathian sludge pulled your head back down into the mud, or vice versa. On In Your Time, this new revisioned creature seems to have digested their past, understood their strengths and weaknesses, and created a surprisingly refined album. As Tarantula, vocals weren't around all that much but impressed when they were; as Priestbird, the devotional rites to hard rock are smartly the centerpiece, and the classical piano and strings are the elements that tie up the songs' endings and beginnings. Dynamic opener \"Life Not Lost\", for example, winds notey stonerrock riffage around Mark Lanegansounding whispersinging before expanding into a brilliant collage of clanky percussion and spooky cellos. \"Hand That Draws\" begins with subdued atmospheric strings, breathy vocals, and gently plodding piano before bubbling and building into a Soundgardenesque grungey chug. The chamber parts are also given their own time to shine: Rather than, like with Tarantula, being awkwardly wedged into the midsection of a portly rocker, some tracks such as the beautiful Erik Satie–like piano composition \"Guest Room\" or the pianodriven and stringaccompanied \"Kliminz\" are allowed to flaunt their compositional prowess. Similarly \"Jackyl\" is an acoustic guitar fingerstyle tune channeling Jimmy Page's classical Indian/Bert Jansch braiding and revisiting Tarantula's folk flirtations. Besides the folky guitar bits, Book of Sand had guest vocal appearances from Devendra Banhart and CocoRosie's Sierra Casady, and the latter returns within the narcotic vapors of In Your Time's very Beatlesesque specifically, \"Blue Jay Way\" \"Last to Know\". Much in the way that newer Queens of the Stone Age has expanded and deepened their Kyuss chaos into lysergic Zeppeliny goodness, Priestbird have let their rock sink deep and the ornamental accessorize only where need be, but similarly with quite Zeppelinlike results: Take for example the album's best track, \"Season of the Sun\", which blends all of the bands elements perfectly: husky whispered vocals swirling around melancholic and subdued yet ominous and stillheavy guitars, with accentuating piano flourishes. It's very much in the vein of Unwound's swan song Leaves Turn Inside You. This gem alone is worth the price of admission, and I can't wait to see what strange and magical beast they transform into next time. "}