{"label":" Castle","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9960/homepage_large.c5911ff5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"The Wedding Present","title":"The Complete Peel Sessions","text":" The idea of devoting a 6xCD radiosession box set to a band as unglamorous as the Wedding Present is mildly counterintuitive at first, a bit like keeping your everyday Bic pen in a fancy gold case. These Leeds guys were never really among the pathbreakers, innovators, or celebrated stars of British indie; they were the workhorse and the house band. Fierce but straightforward, steady and prolific, lovethemordon'tmindthem: For quite a while there, this was the flagship example of what an ordinary, damnedgood UK indie rock band sounded like the Spoon of another place and time. But it's exactly that quality that makes it possible to assemble six discs of their BBC radio performances, something you couldn't manage for a lot of betterremembered bands. This workhorse was reliable enough and well enough loved to come back again and again, playing ever more shows for another beloved indie standardbearer: John Peel, one of the band's great supporters. Expect few surprises on these discs, then: No extended noise jams, no surprise alternate versions, not even that many rare tracks or covers. (The one exception won't be a surprise to longtime fans: The set contains about a dozen tracks of the Slavic folk music the band played as the Ukrainians. This is the sole respect in which the Weddoes were multiple decades ahead of their time.) What you get here is just the tight and frantic live act you can infer from any given Wedding Present album, and with about the same bandinaroom production style. It's a fan bonanza of great performances which, for six discs, it had kinda better be with the Easter eggs limited to stuff like radio chat, a TV theme cover, and a few new tricks during their 2004 reformation: exactly as straightforward as the band has always been. That's 12 radio sessions, a John Peel birthday bash, and three fulllength concerts, stretching over a decade (plus that 2004 restart) of incredibly involving guitar music. And these guys do love their guitars. Early on, back in 1986, they made them jangle as fast as they could manage, always racing ahead in a grand celebration of the very existence of amplifiers. (The very first thing that set them apart from their indie peers was having a drummer who could actually keep up.) Like the Buzzcocks before them, their rousing postpunk blur managed to be tense, scrappy, and still relentlessly poppy. What made this pop so involving, though, tended to be bandleader David Gedge, whose surprisingly conversational clenchedteeth bark falls into that low range most people use when pretending to be stern for comic effect, and whose lyrics navigated cleverly around all the bitter, childish things most people eventually laugh at themselves for thinking. (When more emo singers figure out the difference between irony and just puns, this might actually become a second respect in which the band was 20 years ahead of schedule.) These are mostly love songs expressed not in lovers' talk, but in the petty thoughtbubbles and subtitles that might linger around it. Something about that pairing celebratory bitterness? turns out marvelous, if maybe a little slanted toward the empathy of boys. The first seven sessions here capture its pop phase (and its Ukrainian one), including wild, joyous covers of \"Felicity\" (Orange Juice), \"Getting Nowhere Fast\" (Girls at our Best), and \"Happy Birthday\" (Altered Images): Put this stuff on one disc, and it'd be a mustbuy. It's with the amazing eighth session, previewing songs from 1991's Seamonsters, that things change, and the music catches up with the lyrics: The guitars start winding between purposeful creeps and glorious, cathartic squalls, Gedge starts playacting some serious nojoking breakup bitterness, and from there on, this band has a lot more dynamics and a lot more dramatic weight in its arsenal. That makes for a decent number of standout performances. There are furious takes on the alreadyfurious \"Kennedy\". There's the ease with which they shift between the snarky verses of \"So Long, Baby\", which sound like the Fall, to the apologetic chorus, which sounds like the Buzzcocks: \"In spite of all that, I still think you're dreamy.\" There's a concert version of the Seamonsters bonus \"Fleshworld\", where we get to hear yet another power drummer nail down the flurry of snares occupying half of every other bar that makes the song so fearsome. There's a Peel'sbirthday version of \"What Have I Said Now?\" that seems to capture the peak of this band's grim, heavy romance, and an early apex of clenched teeth and highspeed exasperation on \"All About Eve\". Most of this stuff is impressive enough that you won't even mind the tepid concert version of \"Brassneck\", or the fact that the three fulllength shows are all from 1995/96, the band's comfortable middle age, or how cutting this box down to the first few nonUkrainian Peel sessions would actually make it look more substantial. When you're spending boxset money, though, it's easy to notice that \"great\" performances aren't necessarily \"revelatory\" ones; passionately nailing down the parts ceases to sound like some huge triumph, and Wedding Present songs don't exactly lend themselves to grand reinterpretations. The point of collections like this, of course, has to do with how easily you can burn out a favorite act's back catalog, making it all so familiar that your ears hardly register what's passing by: Even a mildly different live version can bring everything back to life again, and plenty of people English ones especially will appreciate this alternate history. The Wedding Present are the kind of band that can bear that level of involvement, and it's a testament to their skills and their work ethic that nearly every track here lives up to its studio counterpart. It's a sign of their workhorse nature, though, that not too many can aspire to do any more than that. "}