{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9972/homepage_large.40cfc38e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"James Brown","title":"The Singles, Volume Two: 1960-1963","text":"  In the early 1960s, James Brown was a hustler. As his nickname suggested, he worked unbelievably hard, touring 300 days a year and playing as many as five shows a day. Hustlers have to be flexible, and Brown treated his records as advertisements for his live gigs; it was in his interest to get across the idea that whatever kind of thing the audience wanted to hear would probably be part of his show. Of the 20 singles (two unreleased at the time) whose A and Bsides are collected on this volume of HipO's mailorderonly exercise in blessed completism, 13 were chart hits, and it's still easy not to have heard most of them, wedged as they are between the roaring soul of his early years and the funk he'd invent a few years later only \"Night Train\" appears on his 20 AllTime Greatest Hits. Beyond that halfinstrumental cover of a 1952 Jimmy Forrest r&b hit, they include three 30sera pop songs, one of them recorded with an orchestra and a choir; a raw, frantic ripoff of the Isley Brothers' \"Shout\"; a trio of delicately balanced original ballads with Brown's voice slicing across their grain; covers of country hits by Kay Starr (faithfulish) and Cowboy Copas (unrecognizable); a mashedpotatoes riff offhandedly overdubbed with JB yelping his tour itinerary; a 10yearold R&B tune that had recently been a hit for Gladys Knight, recast as an organ instrumental; and a twopart secularized version of the gospel tune \"Mary Don't You Weep\". That's an enormous variety of stuff even more enormous, if you count Bsides and nonhits like the incredible rock'n'roll freakout \"I've Got Money\" and the scenerychewing blues \"The Bells\" and it also encompasses a lot of covers. (Some are unacknowledged, like the instrumental \"Night Flying\", a notfoolinganybody variation on Bill Doggett's \"Honky Tonk\".) Brown's discography in these years was shaped by his ongoing tussles with King Records, which had moved him up from the lesspromoted Federal imprint but encouraged him to cover songs from its publishing catalogue. By 1963, when Live at the Apollo was the hottest album in r&b and Brown was selling out venues across the country, he was practically on strike against King, and they were pumping out whatever ballast happened to be in the archives.  Fortunately, most of the ballast was still pretty juicy. Brown's band in this period was one of his best: The rubberband notesnaps of guitarist Les Buie, and the New Orleans secondlineinspired clatter of drummer Clayton Fillyau (or Fillyua; he's identified both ways in the extensive liner notes), gave the group its toughest attack yet. And Brown's voice was as monstrously strong and supple as it ever got. Mr. Dynamite hadn't figured out how he was going to change the world yet, but he knew he had to get everyone's attention first.  "}