{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9969/homepage_large.f7e1b9b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Death Proof","text":" Who whoulda thunk it: The soundtrack to a Quentin Tarantino movie decides to mix together schlock/art and the obscure/familiar in an attempt to skew our accepted notions about such things. (Honestly, you'd think we'd be onto the guy's shtick by now.) As with Tarantino's previous soundtracks, Death Proof skids across decades, countries, and cultures like Kurt Russell's Grindhouse deathmobile, taking in Italian Bmovie soundtracks (the queasy ebbing and flowing flute and strings of Ennio Morricone's \"Paranoia Prima\"), American popsoul (the Coasters' noirish doowop \"Down in Mexico\"), and British glam (the fuzzedout boogie bop of T.Rex's \"Jeepster\"). Taraninto treats his soundtracks like he treats his films, as if the invention of the VCR abolished the spacetime continuum and suddenly all genres, decades, and countries existed at once within one parallel Hollywood universe. But with Tarantino's pop song sound markers becoming iconic in their own right I'm pretty sick of seeing Michael Madsen hacking off that cop's ear every time I turn on the oldies station the guy obviously knows a thing or two about picking a memorable song to match a memorable image. Despite the years that separate them, most of Death Proof's tunes do sound like they could have been plucked from three decades of double features at the drivein, even if April March's \"Chick Habit\" really sounds like interstitial music from the Powerpuff Girls. Hell, Jack Nitzsche's \"The Last Race\" and Eddie Beram's \"Riot in Thunder Alley\" a deliciously schlocky combo of fuzz bass, cheesy newfor1967 sitar, and codLatin drumming that will have you instantly imagining teenage rabble cruising down twolane blacktop to a middleaged man's idea of rock'n'roll menace were already Bmovie standards before being repurposed by Tarantino. And like all of Tarantino's soundtracks, Death Proof comes with dialogue from the film that wears itself out before the first play through, though thankfully these snippets are much easier to get rid of in the age of iPods than they were with the Pulp Fiction soundtrack. (Unless you were one of those people who actually figured out how to program a CD player.) So Quentin once again collects a pretty killer clutch of semifamiliar and downright unknown pre80s pop, rock, and soul; he probably made some awesome mixtapes for his friends before he was famous, too. But Death Proof raises the same old unfortunate parallel between Tarantino's bigbudget exploitation flicks that quote the history of lowbudget cinema and his major label soundtracks that repackage golden oldies and thriftstore obscurities now for iTunes. Tarantino spent $53 million and three years to recreate a Bmovie era where directors were lucky to get $53,000 to crank out a whole flick over a threeday weekend. Likewise, you can spend $19.99 on Death Proof at Best Buy or dig up a .99 copy of that Joe Tex album at your local Salvation Army. It might sound even better on vinyl, in much the same way that the movies Tarantino pays homage to with Grindhouse are more fun when you catch them on latenight TV than they are when they're lovingly restored by the AFI and turned arthouse respectable. "}