{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9975/homepage_large.70be16b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Yoko Ono","title":"Open Your Box","text":" Of all the revelatory music I discovered thanks to the first Disco (Not Disco) compilation released in 2000 on Strut and now criminally out of print after the label imploded the glacial chill of Yoko Ono's \"Walking on Thin Ice\" may have been the most eyeopening. Ono has obviously withstood mucho public flagellation, and every piece of writing about her seems sadly obliged to start off with a lame variation on \"hey, did you know Yoko Ono was also a conceptual art and artrock and disco pioneer?\" as a preemptive strike against sexists, Beatlespartisans, and fans of conventional wisdom. Now that early 1980s dance music has been firmly established as part of the canon, Yoko's diva bonafides may even seem obvious to many casual listeners; in the club world, they were always obvious. In 2003, she even scored a No. 1 hit on Billboard's dance chart with a \"Walking on Thin Ice\" remix EP. \"Open Your Box\" is an Ono song from 1971 before the disco era, back when she and John Lennon were still working out their Arthur Janov lessons that's also a new collection of Ono dancefloor remixes. The list of remixers Basement Jaxx, Danny Tenaglia, Superchumbo, Murk, DJ Dan, Felix Da Housecat looks like it was cut straight out of DJ chart from a mid to late90s issue of Mixmag, when someone like Tenaglia could play to thousands of people in even a second or thirdtier American city. Compared to today when imported German DJs spin imported German minimalism in the tiny sweatbox basement bars these remixes, with their oldschool garagey snares, and jeep booming basslines, project a kind of bigness that's been longsidelined in hipper dance music circles. The expensive sounding deep house synth pads and tribal beats of Open Your Box scream 1996, a time when clubs came with multiple floors, aluminum walkways, and $10,000 lighting setups. It's initially a weird fit with Ono's music especially if you're expecting something like the pensive, psychedelicized touches of \"Thin Ice\" basically taking her out of a lineage that includes John Cage and Richard Maxfield and dropping her into one that includes Jocelyn Brown and CeCe Peniston. Sometimes, as with any good mercenary modern day remixer, these producers simply beef Ono's songs up for the dancefloor of their day, as with Felix Da Housecat's \"Tribute Mix\" of \"Walking on Thin Ice\", where he keeps the groaning, icebreaker bassline and the piano offbeat and adds louder \"Billie Jean\" drums and a strobing synth riff, like a modern day electrohouse single has been plopped on top the 1980 original. Compare that with the Pet Shop Boys' \"Electro Mix\" of the same song, which has a beat straight out of a Stevie B freestyle single and the roaring, rusted chainsaw bassline that Vitalic favors when out for blood, with only the vocal remaining from the original. The PSB's \"Thin Ice\" has been beefed up all right, but for the dancefloor of 1986, not 2007. Throughout Open Your Box, Ono's halting delivery makes her sound like world's first electroclash vocalist, and her vocal eccentricities save us from the godawfulness of an era when Hot Chip and Peter Bjorn and John are our new schmindie diva overlords. The \"our weekend in Ibiza\" synthesizers and offbrand arpeggiated bassline of Sapphirecut's remix of \"I Don't Know Why\" is nicely tweaked by Ono shouting \"you bastards!\" on the bridge, in a Muanticipating shriekgrowl that sounds like she's been cornered in a prison knife fight. But in a blind taste test of several of these remixes you might not guess Ono was involved at all. Basement Jaxx processes her voice on \"Everyman Everywoman\" until she sounds just like Kele Le Roc over a snapping disco track full of their usual bells and whistles, and on Orange Factory's \"Down and Dirty\" remix of \"Yang Yang\", Ono is vocodered into a Troutmanesque gremlin and blurred into an anonymous orgasmic sigh over a brutally functional garage bounce. It's these tracks that make you realize the essential silliness of turning such an idiosyncratic vocalist into an interchangeable disco dolly, but on the other hand, as much as I'd like to hear what a fellow weirdo like Ricardo Villalobos might do to her work, hearing Ono over these bombastic buttwigglers did make me happily nostalgic for 90s dance music, for which I was grateful. Little Louie Vega is not your enemy, and neither is Yoko Ono. "}