{"label":" Epic / Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9974/homepage_large.6a70f046.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Sly and the Family Stone","title":"The Collection","text":" Sly Stone's protest, if that's the word for it, was just a universal message wedded to hot dance records. Amazingly, he also managed to make these records formal challenges to fixed ideas about culture and genre. And at the time, the Family Stone's seven albums now boxed in a purple paisley time capsule from Epic/Legacy (as well as available separately), complete with obligatory remastering job, new liner notes, plenty of period photos, and of course bonus tracks were released, his message (\"we are family,\" essentially) couldn't have been needed more urgently. When the Family Stone released Stand! in 1969, images of lynching trees (Medgar Evers had taken a bullet only six years before, and Malcolm X two years after that), fire hoses turned on freedom marchers (Martin Luther King and Bobby Kennedy dead less than a year), and soldiers in flagdraped coffins (30,000 Americans killed in Southeast Asia by May 1969) were present tense for Sly, and for his audience. We also live in troubled times, to be sure, and it's perverse to compare body counts in very different wars. But a cynic might argue that we'd need to have a modern day leader like King or Kennedy before we would need someone to articulate their loss. If no one thinks they can change the world anymore and personally, I think that's bullshit it's because our expectations have been turned to mush, until people my age are almost born suspicious and resigned. It's been 36 years since Sly released There's a Riot Goin On, his masterpiece, and that's a lot of time for cynicism to build up like a blood clot or a fat blockage. Television has led me to believe that when the Family Stone were new, folks actively believed they were gonna paint psychedelic flowers on the citadels of power, and it made Sly's fusion of rock and r&b more than a postmodern exercise in mixing styles and his inyerface integrationist aesthetic vital to his audience in a way that's probably hard to take 100% seriously when you're experiencing \"the 60s\" through blackandwhite photographs of marches and atrocities in 10thgrade history textbooks. And if you want a potted pop history of the changing musical and social mores of the 1960s, The Collection is better than 100 History Channel (or VH1) documentaries combined. Just look at the album covers and interior photos: On 1967's A Whole New Thing, despite the pink shirts of his bandmates, saxophonist Jerry Martini is still wearing a sensible brown blazer to go with his (eww) socks and sandals. By 69's Stand! he's dressed in something that seems to cross The Sword in the Stone with Easy Rider, even if he still kind of looks like Rip Torn has wandered into a production of Hair. In 1965, DJ Sly Stone was spinning on San Francisco's KSOL when both the pop and R&B charts were full of records like Junior Walker and the AllStar's grinding, horndriven smash \"Shotgun\" and James Brown's epochal \"Papa's Got a Brand New Bag\", and when Rubber Soul and Bringing It All Back Home Again suddenly inflated rock's sense of selfesteem. Hired to produced many a San Fran hippie band before they had fully grown out their manes, Sly was eagerly sucking all of this new musical input up as his band both literally familial in the case of brother Freddie Stone and sister Rose, and also a mixedrace family in the \"brotherhood of man\" sense was gigging around town. Despite its title, the Family Stone's 1967 debut A Whole New Thing was a feverish but halfcongealed fusion that's simultaneously the band's most straightup rock (\"I Cannot Make It\" is pure British invasion and the Saturday morning lysergic soul of \"Trip to Your Heart\" has the band playing like a dosed Banana Splits) and the most straightup r&b (the churchy, organdriven \"Let Me Hear It From You\") album. The reissue includes two single takes and three unreleased tracks, including the jazzy, strutting \"Only One Way Out of This Mess\", which includes Sly's first sorta, kinda direct statement of purpose: \"Knock the corners off the squares/ We hate nothing and love the rest/ We're all divided into equal shares.\" A Whole New Thing bounced off the charts. By 1968's Dance to the Music, Sly hit on perhaps his greatest idea (with a little nudging by Clive Davis, eyeballing the label's bottom line): Reintroducing his whole new thing Gregg Errico drumming a beat for even the least funky feet, Freddy Stone's bluesy guitar break, Larry Graham's thickhipped fuzz bass, Sly's organ, and the huffingandpuffing horn section with the punch and pop novelty appeal of a rock'n'roll dance instruction record. By the end, a lot of people realized that, hey, maybe this stuff does go together, and the song got to No. 8 on Billboard's pop chart. (The album fared less well.) The band, somewhat infamously and ironically, felt the capitulation to CBS's AMradio aspirations made them squares, which shows what musicians know. The reissue includes two single takes (\"Dance to the Music\" and \"Higher\") as well as three unreleased tracks and an instrumental. The best, \"Soul Clappin',\" is really just \"Dance to the Music\" in dub with new lyrics and way more hand clappin'.  1968's Life was another box office stiff, a fusion of raw Nuggets garage swagger with popfriendly Shindig! dance band boogaloo. Freddy Stone is its star, ripping into raunchy, juiced psyche licks on \"Dynamite!\" His feedback groans like he's stabbing his amp with a knife, Link Wraystyle. \"Plastic Tim\" quotes \"Eleanor Rigby\" before bursting into a slick electric blues backed with showbiz horns straight off the Vegas strip, and Errico's tightly clenched snare break on \"Love City\" reinserts the funk the band thought it had lost on \"Dance to the Music\".  By 1969's Stand!, worries about split differences and clashing genres had become irrelevant. The title track is gospel dressed in its Sunday's best that slips into a pair of bellbottoms in its final moments; \"Don't Call Me Nigger, Whitey\" has the band skewering racial epithets over blues whacked out on fortified wahwah; and \"I Want To Take You Higher\" is Sly parting the Red Sea at Woodstock, set to firespitting rock and testifying soul getting down like a long estranged couple having the craziest make up sex possible. And speaking of doing it: While you could almost imagine some virginal pop singer covering the winsome \"Somebody's Watching You\", Sly's 13minute, acidaddled, guitarsoaked \"Sex Machine\" (no relation to James Brown's) suggests that shacking up with Sly Stone would result in blown minds as well as bedsprings. Containing its most radical music to date, Stand! was also the album that put the Family Stone over the top commercially, containing the haikubrief (only 2:22) No. 1 smash \"Everyday People\".  Then spokesmanforageneration Sly cracked under a massive feeling of impotence about his inability to stop the abyssal reversals he saw on the political and social horizon, a mass Nixonera capitulation that would be later papered over by glib \"have a nice decade\" smiley face bullshit . (Check out Greil Marcus' essential Mystery Train for the story of one of the most shocking aesthetic and moral flipflops in pop history.) Even if you came to Sly's work completely ignorant of its history, a simple A/B comparison between Stand! and 1971's There's a Riot Goin' On would tell you that some horrible transformative event had occurred to turn his flamboyant and friendly music so frigid and frightened. Riot's first line is solipsism as an ideal \"Feels so good inside myself/ Don't wanna move\" and throughout, the lyrics tell you over and over that what optimism and effort will get you is a good kick in the teeth. The music was the rainbow colors of the earlier albums run together into a grey, sludgy midrange where the flatsounding bass was often mixed higher than anything else and the sound mix shifted in ways more Lee Perry than George Martin. Errico's stadiumsized human turnarounds are frequently replaced on Riot by a hissy and hollow drum machine, and Sly sings like he's pushing sewer slurry through his esophagus.  \"Stand\", Sly sang a year before. \"Don't you know that you are free/ Well, at least in your mind if you want to be.\" On Riot Sly climbed inside his mind and found its solitude the only safe haven, to the point that he almost never ventured out again. What kind of freedom is that? Those of us who call Riot our favorite album might do well to take a moment to think about championing a record that intimates contact with humanity will give you cancer of the soul. But it's an ugly message that's surprisingly easy to take after nearly four decades of reduced horizons and guarded cynicism as guiding forces in pop culture.  Two years separated Riot from Fresh, and it probably felt like a shaky hand of reconciliation offered towards his fanbase. Now it sounds like a quiet quite often literally quiet masterpiece of reductionist funk, retaining the minimalism of Riot's staticy pops for drums, its bubbles of bass, its flickers of wahwah. With a wink at his own newfound resignation, Sly turned the Broadwayready pop existentialism of \"Que Sera, Sera\" into something more suited to a New Orleans wake. His singing is less phlegmatic and growly than on Riot, which means it's friendlier, though he's still holding back, sliding into ululations that are sucked into gravelly moans. 1974's Small Talk, on the other hand, really does cross the line from minimalism to minimal ideas; lying in bed for the photoshoot probably didn't help deflect accusations of laziness. From there, Sly never really disappeared, Miles Davis or Brian Wilson style, but judging by the stooped, gnarled, beyondsickly looking man that toddled out on stage at the Grammys a few years ago, it might have been healthier for him if he had, rather than stage successive comebacks into the mid80s while drugging himself half to death.  Sly's decline none of the four albums the Family Stone made after Small Talk are included on the Collection, with good reason and oldies station overexposure make it easy to take him for granted. Hell, it's equally easy to dismiss the 60s entirely as some model for progressive politics when you're watching commercials for baby boomerthemed internet destinations during \"American Idol.\" But of course this is why highvoltage jolts like The Collection are necessary correctives for lazy cultural memories and jaded attitudes. And for music so tied to images of \"the 60s,\" The Collection still sounds, weirdly, right up to date, having been endlessly recast and recycled in the digital age. (Just for fun while listening, count how many times you think to yourself \"oh shit, that's where X sampled X from.\" I stopped around 57.)  And socially, well, it's easy to find yourself agreeing with the ashen nihilism of There's a Riot Goin' On since it comes wedded to Sly's most fully realized music, but I do wonder how healthy it is to prefer it to his earlier work. I had been listening to The Collection for months when the Don Imus scandal broke, and initially, as I watched the abject, mortified faces of the Rutgers University women's basketball team, I thought about the way that Riot reneged on just about everything in life beyond breathing and eating, how it's become this totem for fans and critics who feel any attempt at social change is ultimately futile. But then I noticed how the mixedrace basketball team seemed almost confused by this unexpected flare up of oldschool racism from a sad old man, something so many successive generations had been quietly working to erase. I realized that however he later trashed his own achievements, and however much rock critics prefer the album where he most soundly trashed them Sly's positivebutnevercorny early records had long since succeeded in making him one of the everyday people who helped to, however slowly and in whatever part, change the way we related to each other as Americans. Plus, you know, they've got a good beat and you can dance to them.  "}