{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited / Megablade","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9985/homepage_large.f2fbe465.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Growing","title":"Vision Swim","text":" Laptop composers often reference the arc of the symphonic music, with clear beginnings, middles, and ends. Bands like Growing who favor guitars and pedals and analog machines and leave a tail of patch cords dragging behind them as they move from towntotown seem like they're always tinkering, listening to each other, and deciding in the moment what comes next. This analogbased live approach can lead, oddly enough, to heavy use of repetition. Sometimes Growing stay with a certain effect, holding it and letting it spin in place until they figure out where they're going to go next. Such repetition is key to their latest album Vision Swim, as is the sense of inthemoment discovery. Here Growing often seem like they're tending a sound garden more than composing. \"Morning Drive\" begins with a throb of acidic feedback drone that never lets up, giving the tune the 4/4 pulse of midtempo techno. And when guitar sounds gradually come in, they're unstable notes flying all over the place, circling and tearing off like flies trying to dodge the tail of an angry cow. Whether or not it was all planned out in advance, the track sounds like something created by listening as much as playing, as if bassist Kevin Doria and guitarist Joe Denardo didn't know themselves exactly where it was going and after eleven minutes just decided to wind it down. This looseness gives \"Morning Drive\" a nice sense of unpredictability, its emotional ambiguity and zigzag direction helping to reinforce repeat plays.Vision Swim makes clear that Growing are at their best when their music has these frayed edges. The pure drone of 2004's Soul of The Rainbow And The Harmony Of Light on Kranky, for example, was solid but had nowhere near this amount of personality; a more restless music, away form the quest for the perfect harmonic sequence, is where Growing's strengths lie. Sometimes, as on the 15minute \"On Anon\", the various guitar delays, crunching distortion and squiggly notes assemble into a torrent of sound that's loud and frightening with a molten core of beauty that even a kindergartener could appreciate. Here they approach the sublime tension perfected by Black Dice on \"Endless Happiness\", where they manage to be simultaneously both fuckyou obnoxious and warmly ingratiating.  Nothing else on Vision Swim quite approaches the knockout power of \"On Anon\" but all of it is at least pretty good. \"Emseepee\" also creates a bedrock bass rhythm off which playful bits of distortion pivot, \"Lightfoot\" turns white guitar noise into a wave pool, pushing forward with discrete surges of feedback. I haven't heard quite enough Growing to call this their best record, but it sounds to me like they're thinking hard about what goes where and why, finding new ways to get the most out of their varied sound palette.  "}