{"label":" Epitaph","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9998/homepage_large.1e24556d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Sage Francis","title":"Human the Death Dance","text":" With 2005's A Healthy Distrust, Sage Francis ditched introspection, the meat and potatoes of his earlier work, for firebreathing activism. And who could blame him? A president he didn't vote for had just won another four years missteps into lecturing could be forgiven. The old Francis, the quirky, quipping storyteller, triumphantly returns on Human the Death Dance, his second record on Epitaph, to his unique blend of diaristic, downtoearth meditations, eerie soundscapes, and loopy abstraction. Not that an herbivorous slam poet from Rhode Island, to put it frankly, would be expected to drop politics altogether. The personal is especially political on \"Underground for Dummies\", a biting, but never bitter, record of Francis's long tango with the music industry. And he's losing patience with the closemindedness within his own art form: \"This is hiphop for the people/ Stop callin' it emo!\" Francis sees nonsense everywhere. On \"Midgets and Giants\", he lampoons subcultural bullshit across the board, from the doeeyed disciples of 8 Mile (\"a promotional tool, shithead/But not for you, shithead\") to the sexedup and curiously alive Suicide Girls. And the mission to broaden hiphop's palette (and palate) presses on behind the curtain, where usual suspects Sixtoo, Alias, Reanimator switch off with other outerrim stars. cLOUDEAD's Odd Nosdam blends ghostly atmospherics and Golden Age breakbeats on the opener, while composer Mark Isham lends a swank, silverscreen drama to \"Good Fashion\". Isham's tender union of piano, harp, and strings nearly steals the show on \"Water Line\", a spokenword diatribe on not doing your job, and not just in New Orleans. \"Got Up This Morning\" sways to Buck 65's hightech confederacy of fiddles and harmonica, before Francis' female companion poses that timeless question: What would Bukowski do? Pendulums may swing and paradigms might shift, but you can always count on underground hiphop for those endearingly nerdy, Englishmajor moments. If you decode Jolie Holland's dreamy sighs on \"Black Out on White Night\", rumor has it you'll hear Dante. As you circle deeper into the record, whispers of the old confessionalism get louder and louder. \"Going Back to Rehab\" weaves allusions to the greats, Nas and Biggie, into a sixminute tapestry that encompasses everything great about Sage Francis's strongest album to date: Its neon rainbow of tones and moods, the almost telepathic harmony between producer and rapper, the riveting faultline tiptoe between memoir and manifesto. "}