{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10022/homepage_large.abc6e3e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Cult Cargo: Grand Bahama Goombay","text":"  There's a tendency among Americans to think of the Bahamas as nothing but a tourist destination, a place to go snorkeling and get a tan. We tend to forget that people live there, that people were living there even before it became one of the first places in the Western Hemisphere to be spotted by Europeans. The country's population today is made up largely of the descendants of British loyalists who fled the U.S. after 1783, the slaves they brought with them and escaped slaves who took advantage of the short water route to the islands after slavery was abolished in the Crown colonies in 1834. The islands achieved selfgovernance in 1964, and 10 years later became fully independent from Britain, but most of the country's cultural and popular influence from outside came across the Straits of Florida. In the 60s and 70s, that meant jazz, rock, soul, and funk. The island of Grand Bahama is the closest to Florida, and during those decades played host to an intriguing music scene that lightly Caribbeanized American soul and funk. The music that scene produced during its heyday is, like so much other global music from that era, very much in danger of disappearing from the collective memory a hot, rainy island that gets nailed by about one major hurricane each decade isn't the most conducive environment to keeping tapes and old LPs in top shape. Enter Numero Group, whose Cult Cargo series, now two volumes, extends the brilliant restoration work of their Eccentric Soul series beyond U.S. shores. They chose the word goombay for the title because of its myriad meanings on Grand Bahama it's a flavor, an annual festival, and most importantly for our purposes, both a drum and the style of music for which that drum provides the rhythm. In the 60s, Grand Bahama was in the early stages of a tourist boom that continues to the present day, and tourists begat hotels begat bands begat recordings. The key figure in the island's scene was a man named Frank Penn, a bartender/barber/carpenter who found himself in possession of the Bamboo East when its owner hopped the pond to the States.  Penn set about transforming it into a youth music hotspot and ultimately parlayed its success into a record label, GBI International, which released most of the music on this compilation. Penn himself shows up on instrumental and vocal versions of his song \"Gimme Some Skin\", offering the opening couplet \"Black is beautiful/ White is nice\" in a gentle falsetto that floats right over the top of the lockedin drums, wahsoaked guitar, and bright, catchy horns. As his country gained its independence, Penn was integral in helping the people of his island discover their own thing, and interracial harmony was part of that vision.  There were also plenty of good bands for Penn to record, and the Mustangs were one of the best. Their two tracks here are both laidback soul killers. \"Whatcha Gonna Do 'Bout It\" bumps along on a slow but insistent rhythm, with the lead vocals joined in twopart harmony on key phrases, while \"The Time For Loving Is Now\" seems to be balancing influences from all over the Western Hemisphere, from Jamaica to Cuba to Detroit. The compilation incorporates a fairly eclectic batch of songs, including a few truly unexpected gems: Ozzie Hall's cover of Paul Desmond's \"Take Five\" is a brilliantly funky, even noirish recasting of the song (it also ignores the 5/4 rhythm that helped make the original famous), while Sylvia Hall's \"Don't Touch That Thing\" takes a slightly racy schoolyard chant advocating abstinence (\"don't touch that thing/your belly gonna show,\" concludes the chorus) and turns it into a slice of breezy, instantly memorable funk.  All these other artists are pretty much hors d'oeuvre for Jay Mitchell, though. The Grand Bahama native rules this compilation like he ruled the scene in Nassau, the Bahamian capital he left for as soon as he could. Mitchell very nearly had a career in the Stateshe toured with Otis Redding, who was slated to produce an album for him, but he instead returned to Freeport, Grand Bahama after tiring of road life and the pressure of trying to make it in the ocean of American pop music.  It's clear from the five tracks here that he could have gone as far as he wanted to. The man was an adroit bandleader who presided over lengthy funk workouts like \"Funky Fever\" and \"Tighter & Tighter\" with charismatic authority, leading the band into fantastic breakdowns full of nasty breaks and peels of psychedelic guitar. He was capable of sweetness, too, as on his smooth, elegant 1968 cover of Edwin Starr's \"I Am the Man For You, Baby\". His \"Goombay Bump\", written by Penn, is a distinctively Bahamian creation, creating a dance around a fluid local rhythm. But it's his mindblowing 13minute cover of \"Mustang Sally\" that best highlights his genius. Apart from the lyrics, it doesn't even resemble the song we know, riding a sick drum beat and a healthy slathering of Hammond organ until it boils over.  That cover closes the disc, which is fitting, because I don't know what you'd follow it with. It's a perfect capper for yet another ridiculously great compilation from Numero Group. It's not a perfect disc, mostly because of an embarrassingly inept cover of \"Theme From 'Shaft'\", but it's so full of great, nearly lost music that it's hard to fault the inclusion of a headscratching curio like that. On the whole, Grand Bahama Goombay offers a peek into a musical world well worth preserving, and I can't wait to see where Cult Cargo goes next.  "}