{"label":" Sonar Kollektiv","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10040/homepage_large.32281c70.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Âme","title":"...Mixing","text":" As with Ricardo Villalobos' Alcachofa or Daft Punk's Human After All, the impact of Âme's hypnotic 2005 anthem \"Rej\" has been delayed; 18 months or so after its release, dance music is beginning to respond with a swathe of club tracks that recast the space between deep house and minimal as that between orchestration and Steve Reich chimeloops (hello, Henrik Schwarz). You might expect Âme's debut DJ mix …Mixing to speak to this development (\"where is Rej?\" asks the tongueincheek sticker on the front of the CD, presumably so that I don't have to), but instead it talks around it, weaving a constellation of influences and reference points that almost tooperfectly circumscribe Âme's sound tooperfect, because the result sometimes feels a bit like a list of ingredients rather than the finished product. Perhaps because Âme's current sound tends toward the monolithic, the gentle eclecticism on display here struggles to startle: Âme's penchant for moody hippy disco, lush vocal garage, dreamy techhouse, scaly minimal and nervous Detroit techno seems so reasonable, it's hard to imagine that this could result in efforts as disorienting as \"Rej\" or the recent \"Fiori\". But reasonability isn't the worst thing you could accuse a DJ mix of, and one of the pleasures of …Mixing is precisely how logical and familiar Âme's aesthetic seems even the unashamedly pretentious use of Tangerine Dreamstyle synthesizer epics to open and close the mix seems cheerfully appropriate. For people who look to dance music for sonic revolutions, the album's appeal will be limited. The sound of this music clean but amorphous, accomplished but not complicated, existing in a space where acoustic and electronic sounds merge and become indistinguishable gestures towards a sense of timelessness that usually prevents it from sounding futuristic, or even retrofuturist. At its most intoxicating the gorgeously soporific disco of Double's \"Woman of the World\", the orchestral grandeur of Henrik Schwarz's remix of Coldcut's \"Walk a Mile in my Shoes\", the bruised atmospherics of Atjazz's \"For Real (Version Remix)\" or the existential diva echoes of Ben Westbeech's \"So Good Today (Yoruba Soul Mix)\" the sensation is perhaps rather that of a future of damaged dancers looking back to the past for shelter and succor; the utopian or dystopian resonances of this music are given shape insofar as they excluded from the frame. Perhaps best of all is Carl Craig's 12yearold remix of Jonny L's \"This Time\", in which a female diva's declaration, \"there's no need to climb the mountains high\", is looped into an ominous \"highighighigh\", while the jazzhouse groove builds to a seemingly infinite plateau of intensity. At once luxuriant and slightly unnerving, the track exposes a darkness at the heart of opulence, the \"timelessness\" of the music now an eerie sign that the embodied world has fallen away, leaving no path back to reality. At these moments the mix comes closest to capturing the mystical feel if not the specific sound of \"Rej\", which repeats its haunting motif to the point of monomaniacal delirium, a soundtrack to some arcane pagan rite.  \"Mystical\" is not a vibe that deep house has had much truck with historically. \"Soulful,\" yes, even \"spiritual,\" but the voluptuous warmth of the music has usually been immersive rather than overwhelming, beguiling rather than bewitching. In its decision to cover so much historical and stylistic ground rather than burrow deeper into this as yet still underexplored aesthetic, …Mixing can feel like a bit of a missed opportunity; compared to recent efforts from Âme's labelmate and occasional collaborator Dixon, it doesn't go deep enough. Still, as an introductory biography on how the duo got to this point, it succeeds admirably. Let's just hope they have a sequel planned.  "}