{"label":" Deaf Dumb and Blind","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10039/homepage_large.cf9e5fde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Chennault","artist":"Madlib","title":"Time Out Presents: The Other Side Los Angeles","text":" For more than a century, a motley collection of artists, writers, filmmakers, and musicians have tried to get their collective heads around the nebulous, mercurial city of Los Angeles. Is the City of Angels the sunny fulfillment of the American dream as portrayed by any number of Hollywood films, or is it the throughthelookingglassdarkly noir of Raymond Chandler and James Cain? Can the key to the decoding the vast intellectual sprawl be found in quasiscientific sorcery of L. Ron Hubbard and Aleister Crowley, or in the compromised pop art of Edward Ruscha? Of course, L.A. is all of the above to paraphrase an old tourist slogan: L.A. is where it all comes together, for better or worse. And for the past decade it's also been the home to a burgeoning underground hiphop/soul/electro scene. Acts such as Flying Lotus, Nobody, Georgia Anne Muldrow, and Guns 'N' Bombs are carving out a niche that will hopefully some day rival the late50s, early60s glory years of West Coast free jazz, when musicians such as Ornette Coleman, Eric Dolphy, Don Cherry, and Billy Higgins subverted traditional jazz structure and forever altered that genre's landscape. And whatever success the current scene has can be traced back, in part, to Stones Throw Records and it twin titans of hiphop, Peanut Butter Wolf and Madlib. So, the prospect of an L.A. edition of Time Out hosted by that pair looks amazing on paper. Personally, I can't imagine a better person to chronicle the chaotic history of L.A. music better than the Beat Konductor, whose own ADD avant garde aesthetic mirrors the city's restless and ongoing search for definition. And while no one is going to mistake Peanut Butter Wolf for a Duck Tours guide, the Stones Throw founder and DJ is affable and witty enough to fulfill his task as subterranean guide. Unfortunately, the package is underwhelming. Sure, PBW's DVD works well enough as a hipster tour guide: He hits all the right spots night spots the Social Trust, Cinespace, and Greenlight as well as cool fashion/ culture spots such as Barracuda, Blue Chips, and Suro and carries it off with an intimacy and wit that personalizes the entire experience. If you're a PBW groupie, or maybe if going to L.A. for the first time, it's probably required viewing. But honestly, we're not in the business of reviewing DVDs, particularly ones of the travel guide variety.  Which leaves us with Madlib's mix CD. The tagline on here is that the disk is a reflection of Madlib's L.A., but at least half the artists here aren't even from Los Angeles. Dabrye, Jay Dee, Phat Kat, and Cybertron are all from Detroit; Sun Ra hails from Chicago; and the handful of Lee Perry collaborators (the great Prince Jazzbo, Burning Spear drummer Leroy \"Horsemouth\" Wallace) are from Jamaica. Sure, there are some great tracks here. The quirky, windy Mark Murphy track, \"Sly\", produced by Herbie Hancock, is an odd pleasure, while the Outlaw Blues Band delivers an appealing slice of psychedelic blues with \"Deep Gully\". The sporadic insertion of his own tracks, including the exclusive (and mediocre) \"Infinity\", suggests that perhaps Madlib is attempting to trace his own music genealogy. In fact, many tracks hint at Madlib's reckless disregard of traditional song structure. But if selfillumination is the goal, then the CD fails to really highlight the breadth of Madlib's aesthetic.  At best, the disk approximates the dadaist, ramshackle charm of his Blunted in the Bombshelter disk. Both mixes are full of unexplained pans and level tweaks, and stock dialogue makes its way into several songs. But the thing about the Blunted was that at least it had a central point: namely, mixing the Trojan catalog. In the end, the CD is enjoyable yet kinda pointless. It feels as if Madlib spent 30 seconds in between bong packs assembling a playlist. Sure, you could do worse, but Madlib could also do better. "}