{"label":" Atlantic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10035/homepage_large.22a1a5dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Fields","title":"Everything Last Winter","text":" London quintet Fields grabbed headlines overseas last year for the label bidding war that ultimately found them a place with venerable Warner Music Group subsidiary Atlantic. If there's anything American indie rock fans have largely rediscovered in the last couple of years, it's that a jump to a major label doesn't necessarily mean a band has started to suck. Among the more recent examples, Death Cab for Cutie and then the Decemberists executed the transition with only minor stylistic changes, the latter group if anything becoming weirder. Fields haven't started to suck, either, but they have gone from winsome guitarpop group to unwieldy bigroom behemoths. Maybe they figured Muse's shift toward glammedout dancerock on last year's Supermassive Black Hole left room for another purveyor of overly compressed postRadiohead mope. Everything Last Winter still has the close boy/girl harmonies, insistent songwriting, and restrained squalls of the band's early releases, including 2006's 7 From the Village EP; it's still, in the words of Pitchfork's Stuart Berman, a \"Zach Braff pantyremover soundtrack.\" On the other hand, it's harder to get someone else naked when you keep putting on more and more layers of clothing. Like another hushed UK indie band gone arenaready, Snow Patrol, Fields really do have the tunes and the detached grandeur to one day potentially play big venues. While their songs may lack the wounded emotional verisimilitude of Gary Lightbody's best work, they share his Glasgow band's predilection for restrained, shoegazeindebted whitenoise tendrils. Single \"If You Fail We All Fail\" distills the band's perpetually ascending shimmer into nearly six minutes of electronic Slowdive swirls, submerged acoustic guitars, and the vocal interplay of singer/guitarist Nick Peill with keyboardist Thorunn Antonia. \"I need you as much as they do,\" the two murmur, their vaguely pleasant vagueness almost (but never quite) overcome by superfluous overdubs and reverb. This is where collegetown babies come from.  As big as the heartswelling hooks get, though, Fields are more memorable when they let their early1970s folk ghosts creep into the corners of their songs like dusty cobwebs. Antonia's breathy coo takes the lead amid the modal whir of \"Feathers\", but the song loses its way in the woods during a final crescendo of whitecapped guitar, strings, and effects. The lofty vocal harmonies of Peill, Antonia, and drummer Henry Spenner finally get some space to settle in on languid acoustic waltz \"Schoolbooks\". Songs such as these, the ironically sweet \"Skulls and Flesh and More\" and lilting campfire closer \"Parasite\" suggest Fields might've been like a more mystical Magic Numbers if there had never been a Doves or Elbow.  The band (and producer Michael Beinhorn, whose credits include Korn, Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Soundgarden along with Mew and Herbie Hancock), must have had other ideas. Surging opener \"A Song for the Fields\", here in its latest of many incarnations, encapsulates Fields' shift from folktinged British rockers to redline anthem hawkers, thick with so many heavily compressed effects and guitar fireworks that the song has, paradoxically, gotten less direct even as it's become more radiopolished. Perhaps it's as Peill proclaims over a Snow Patrol thrum on \"Charming the Flames\": \"Passion makes you vain.\" Halloweenready rocker \"The Death\" is an illadvised sojourn into demonic whispers (unsurprisingly, Beinhorn has also produced Marilyn Manson). On the Pete Yornlike \"You Don't Need This Song (To Fix Your Broken Heart)\", yet another track that undercuts its catchiness with anonymizing slickness, Peill adds, \"Sing this song like any other one/ 'Cause they're all the same.\" Thing is, they're really not, but on Everything Last Winter it eventually starts to sound that way.  "}