{"label":" Antenna Farm","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10044/homepage_large.dc8dcdc5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Je Suis France","title":"Afrikan Majik","text":"  So many bad things have been done to Africa over the years that this album cover just seems like piling on. My colleague Rob Mitchum remarked that Lupe Fiasco and his astral appliances must be floating just out of the frame. Garish as it is, with its NES Power Glove, lasereyed bear, a dude eating a massive cheeseburger, and a beer cooler crushing Madagascar, the cover art is actually sort of a reflection of the record. There are, like, 50 guys in this band (actually just nine, but it seems like 50 sometimes), and the songs are stuffed with objects in motion bound together only by grooves that suggest large collections of LPs from 1970s Germany. If your average stoner jam band had ambition, this is the type of sound it might reach for a bit heady, suggestive of hallucinogenic chemicals, all over the stylistic map, and too long in several spots. An overabundance of length is perhaps the album's weakest point, in fact. It's over an hour long where a more traditional LP length might've been a better fit for the material. They don't hold back on giving you the extended jams, either: Opener \"Sufficiently Breakfast\" is a 16minute instrumental. The bassline is a little bit Boredoms, a little bit Neu!, and the drums smack along deeply in the pocket. After about two minutes, the guitars come in, and the next five minutes are a blur of awesome astral jamming. It reaches a point of excess toward the end, but concludes marvelously with a return to the original groove. A couple of tracks indicate that these guys could be a pretty formidable indie pop band if they chose to focus in that direction. \"That Don't Work That Well For Us\" turns the mobspeak of its chorus into a catchy hook by placing it over the last kind of drum beat you'd expect in a peppy, upbeat pop tune. \"The Love of the France\" is even better it has this 80s Creation Records vibe to it, with the lightly filtered, fey vocals, and acoustic guitar high in the otherwise electric mix. It's like something the older collegeaged sibling would've mixtaped for the younger high schoolaged sibling back home in 1990, and it snuck up on me to become my favorite moment on the album.  The album is such a widely mixed bag that it's tough to find a central thread to talk about. \"Whalebone\" is an eightminute slice of cosmic krautrock, \"California Still Rules\" and \"101 Miles and Runnin'\" are good psychedelic hard rock with strong group vocals, \"Feeder Band\" is a long, New Agey twiddle that for some reason reminds me of the old Simpsons Halloween episode where Homer falls into the third dimension. It doesn't all work, as one might imagine. \"Digital Shrimp\" is a bleepy, boring drag, and \"Wizard of Points\" starts out cool with heavy drums and crazy vocoder but drags it out too far. By far the least forgivable song is the last one, though. \"Never Gonna Touch the Ground\" is a leaden, even insulting ersatz reggae track complete with embarrassing fake Jamaican accents even the way it's listed on the back cover makes it look tacked on.  You might've noticed a lot of compound adjectives up there, and it's simply because there is no easy, direct way to describe what this band does. If they can decide what kind of band they want to be, or at least more fully unify their disparate elements, they'll be a force to reckon with. As it is, there are a handful of pretty awesome tracks on the album, and it's well worth checking out for people who like their rock with a touch of adventure.  "}