{"label":" City Slang / Gold Standard Laboratories","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10049/homepage_large.cd062be5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Jai-Alai Savant","title":"Flight of the Bass Delegate","text":" The JaiAlai Savant are one of very few bands who have managed to unexpectedly charm me in a live setting. The mindblowing unknown opening act is a familiar enough trope, but the thenPhiladelphia band's set didn't blow me away so much as gently but firmly guide me into the their corner. Playing first of three at a big club can be daunting, and sure enough the band performed to an almostdeserted Bowery Ballroom without the benefit of a soundcheck. And yet, they pulled off a surprisingly solid set with just the right balance of eagerness and gentle selfdeprecation. Too much selfawareness can kill a young band's appeal and leave genuine charisma reeking of transparent manipulation, and it was refreshing to see a band that seemed so at ease, especially given the circumstances of the show. Nearly four years later, a similar sense of ease permeates the band's debut, Flight of the Bass Delegate. The album has its fair share of genrehopping, but never in a way that seems obnoxiously cool or haphazardly referential. If anything, the dub and reggae nods on Flight of the Bass Delegate come off as...kinda dorky. The JaiAlai Savant are not dabblers, and they follow through some of these stylistic cues with an aplomb that at can be both disarming and distracting. The brief introductory track \"Data Massagana\" is both justified and obliterated by the unstoppable, explosive \"Arcane Theories\". Here, the band's pop and postpunk sensibilities come to the fore; \"Arcane Theories\" pairs the unrelenting muscle of a Fugazi song with massive, sunsoaked harmonies. It's pop music based in rhythm, not melody singer Ralph Darden doesn't have much of a range, and many of his melodies don't extend beyond four or five notes. But his short, repetitive harmonized vocal phrases make for an integral and memorable part of the album's overall feel. The best moments on Flight are generally the most intense and concise. Again, this is not a band that drops aesthetic signifiers and then moves on; they commit, and sometimes they'll chase a groove a little too far. \"Scarlett Johansson, Why Don't You Love Me?\" adds just a bit of reggae syncopation to the band's propulsive sound, to great effect. The seven minuteplus \"The Low Frequent See\" the title of which should put to rest any questions regarding the band's nerddom finds its way to a number of cool sounds and interesting instrumental moments, but such explorations almost always seem to come at the expense of focused songcraft. Still, this is the age of shuffle, and there are some kind of unbelievably asskicking tracks to be found here. And, even when the band meanders, they do so wholeheartedly. Though it was long in the making, this is still their first release, and it certainly isn't short on good reasons to keep paying attention. Flight of the Bass Delegate has some very good stylistic ideas and some very good songs, even if they don't always happen at the same time.  "}