{"label":" Permanent Vacation","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10045/homepage_large.4189b228.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Kathy Diamond","title":"Miss Diamond to You","text":"  It's not hard to imagine a time when music comes from increasingly obscure sources, out from a corner of the smallest bedroom in an apartment shared by four people blogging about four different records, arranging tours on the fly (with about a 5050 ratio of confirmed dates to TBAs), producing impeccable hybrid music for god knows what audience of downloaders and strangely bedfellowed wordofmouthers. I'm not just talking about experimental stuff either, but \"pop\" and \"dance\" and \"indie,\" and did I mention \"pop\"? It's not hard to imagine this because it's already happening. Chances are, you or someone you know has turned out a track in the last few months that sounds suspiciously accomplished, oddly amazing, and perhaps even deserving of widespread recognition; sure, software and various electronic machinery make music production easier, but they don't necessarily make it \"good,\" which is why people like Maurice Fulton, Kathy Diamond, and [insert your friend here] are such badasses. Fulton has been making and house and futuresoul tracks for more than a decade under the guise of at least a dozen aliases and (usually) shortlived groups which means, you can't exactly call him a bedroom producer. However, in the best indie tradition, he manages to maintain an almost iconoclastic, stubbornly outsider profile. His fans (hello there) endlessly sing his praises while his gigs go late into the night and attract a weird mix of clubbers, hipsters, and electromusos, but his MySpace blog posts can read like rants from an exiled deviant, going so far as to blacklist any potential \"friends\" repping for a certain hated former label. His records with wife Mutsumi Kanamori as Mu feature some of the best electronic, danceish music of the decade, yet still seem on the outer fringe of what you'll hear in a club on any given night. Diamond's résumé isn't as full, but she's hardly less independently minded. Originally from Sheffield, UK (Fulton's current residence), she describes the long, frequently frustrating road to selfreleasing her music on her MySpace bio, and though that kind of story is hardly rare for independent musicians, the quality of the songs on her debut album is. Miss Diamond to You (with production credits for Fulton, though \"performed\" by his Syclops alias) is hard soul for beardos. However, it's also got hooks all over the place, accentuated by Fulton's neverintrusive mix of rock drums (\"programmed\" of course), funky bass (definitely not programmed), and a countless array of synth patches that he uses both sparingly and to perfect accompanying effect. And yes, there's something about the record that sounds borne of a couple of people holed up in a small Sheffield studio; perhaps it's consistency of the sound from track to track, or maybe it's just the topheavy, ultracompressed timbre of Diamond's vocals which sound a bit on the demoy side compared to, I don't know, Timbaland producing Nelly Furtado.  Still, the songs and the beats don't lie: This is a good record. Diamond's vocal melodies in tunes like opener \"Between the Lines\" or her underrated 2006 single \"All Woman\" are airy but syncopated and percussive at just the right moments, as any melody worth its pop has to be. Her \"watch me, see me, love me, push me, pull me\" over Fulton's tight arrangement of slap bass, handclaps, and funky chickenscratch guitar is like hearing Kylie Minogue perform with Chic, and when Fulton brings in the cavernous echo and salsa percussion on \"Until the Sun Goes Down\", what could easily have sounded overstuffed and eyerollingly \"eclectic\" just comes out like a selfcontained block party. Indeed, when the snare figure comes in, shortly succeeded by the churning, Tangerine Dreamy synth patterns (an increasingly hip sonic reference for dance producers), the track could pass for a break in a Mu song. And then Diamond comes in with the vocal, and it becomes immediately apparent: This is Pop.  Ultimately, I guess that's part of the only disappointing aspect of the record. Where these songs beg to be played loud for large numbers of happy people, the vaguely homemade sound occasionally compacts what should be expansive. Make no mistake, subtle details of record mastering or mixing aren't enough to sink the songs, and if you heard this stuff in a DJ set between, say, a Lindstrøm track and a Deodato reedit, you wouldn't notice anything except how hard it was tell which tracks were new and which were from 1983. And even then, you probably wouldn't care: The modern independent musician not only refuses to die, she's getting better and better every night. "}