{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10055/homepage_large.2d58a874.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"A Tribute to Joni Mitchell","text":" A Tribute to Joni Mitchell is a cobbledtogether set featuring songs specially recorded for the occasion and a few that have been lying around for ages. The first thing I did when it showed up in my review queue was make my own version of the tribute, with Mitchell's originals sidebyside with the remakes. I've liked Joni Mitchell's music for a long time, but this disc has given me a much greater appreciation for what a great performer she was. The reason is pretty simple: most of the people on this compilation can't handle her stuff, or screw it up trying. Mitchell is often lumped in with the mostly abhorrent 1970s singersongwriter thing, but unlike contemporaries who emerged from the last wave of folk as hippiedom broke apart and sank into the cultural memory, she was an explorer. Even her early folk material, which is pretty musically basic, exhibits deep idiosyncrasies the way she attacked a melody doesn't really have a parallel, and there's an extemporaneous energy to her performances that makes her hard to imitate. This adventurousness spilled out into the music in the mid70s, as she incorporated jazz on 1974's Court & Spark and dove in the avantgarde on the following year's The Hissing of Summer Lawns. This stretch of her career, extending through Hejira and Don Juan's Reckless Daughter to 1979's Mingus, is my personal favorite, and it accounts for a fair number of the covers included here, including all of the good ones.  Starting with the positive, Björk's take on 1975's \"The Boho Dance\" is a small joy one of today's most unique female vocalists taking on one of the most unique female vocalists of the 70s. She makes the song her own, turning it inward with Vespertineish twinklings. Caetano Veloso's version of \"Dreamland\" is a perfect execution of something that makes total sense. The original's sparse arrangement was nothing but vocals and percussion, and Veloso preserves that, changing out the AfroCaribbean track for an AfroBrazilian assault. Hearing it sung by a guy who has slave ancestry and calls the song's Dreamland home gives even heavier weight to the images of Walter Raleigh and Chris Columbus walking out of the waves.  Elvis Costello gets together with a woodwind ensemble to cover Hissing's \"Edith & the Kingpin\", and it has that minimalist intensity he does so well. For his part, Sufjan Stevens seems to be having fun leading off the compilation with his version of \"Free Man in Paris\", and he puts perhaps more imagination into his contribution than anyone else here. Even so, some of his moves don't work. He replaces the original flute fanfare with a drylyrecorded horn arrangement that sound like it's introducing a network news winter storm report, and the first verse is underwhelming, but he saves it by completely reinventing the chorus at about twice the original tempo. Not competing directly with Joni pays off.  Then there's the rest of it. Emmylou Harris sounds okay taking on the latterday Mitchell tune \"The Magdalena Laundries\", mostly because she lets the song's tale of girls spirited to a convent to protect their families' reputations speak for itself. But Prince's take on \"A Case of You\", aside from being completely incongruous, is excruciating. First of all, it's not much of a tribute to drop the verses you don't feel like singing, but more importantly, the arrangement is Prince at his sappy, syrupy, highnotemilking worst, and it rapes the song of its import. Brad Mehldau's jazz piano interpretation of \"Don't Interrupt the Sorrow\" is boring in all caps, even if it obviously took a lot of thought.  The final tier of covers is reserved for the boring, the uninspired, and the slavish imitations that can't match what they're imitating. James Taylor does \"The River\" and can't even sing the melody, K.D. Lang tries to be Joni on \"Help Me\" and fails over a limp arrangement and naff production, Cassandra Wilson's \"For the Roses\" is minimal to a fault, and her vocal barely leaves a threenote range. I'll give Sarah McLachlan credit for trying to do something interesting with layered vocals on \"Blue\", but that doesn't actually make it good.  I feel like it's an indie rock cliché saying that the good tracks are by Björk, Sufjan, Elvis Costello and Caetano Veloso, but it's true. There's just no reason for a version of \"Ladies of the Canyon\", sung by Annie Lennox with fake koto flourishes and hideous sequenced tabla in the background, to exist. Listening back to the allJoni version of the record, it's clear that this is a musical legacy that deserves a lot better.  "}