{"label":" Go Midnight","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10059/homepage_large.24ab0f79.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Night Canopy","title":"Of Honey and Country","text":"  Unless you're a coffeeaddled Seattle scenester with a keen ear to the ground, chances are you heard of Night Canopy because their lineup contains former Pretty Girls Make Graves drummer Nick DeWitt, not because they're fronted by Emerald City singersongwriter Amy Blaschke. In DeWiit's soontobe extinct former band, the drummer/multiinstrumentalist busted his ass to keep up with PGMG's breakneck tempos and swirling melodies. Night Canopy must feel like a retirement home for DeWitt by comparison, as he peppers Blaschke's easydoesit folk numbers with innocuous instrumental texture.Of Country and Honey essentially sounds like a singersongwriter solo album that scored a primo arranger in DeWitt. Blaschke's moody tales of love won and love lost take center stage here, even if that means downplaying the rest of the band. At her best, Blaschke writes gnarled folk songs able to conjure the haunting demons her previous and blander solo material could only allude to with cheap lyrics. At her worst, she sounds like backwater from Saddle Creek, her vanilla dirges plodding about as forgettably as Maria Taylor, the tempo, at times, even slower somehow. Hopefully, as the album's schizo nature suggests, Blaschke is at a crossroads stylistically and not entirely wedded to this \"Home on the Range\"sounding filler. As with nearly every \"tortured\" singersongwriter these days, publicity releases and halfassed writeups will throw out Elliott Smith comparisons. In reality, neither Blaschke's depression nor dementia can hold a candle to something like Either/Or, though her countrytinged catatonic despair echoes more recent acts Cat Power or Broadcast.  \"Signs of Life\" bucks the linear songwriting found on most of Of Honey and Country, with a creepy organ and clanging percussion burying Blaschke's distant vocals. Even further out in left field, the 80second French number \"Elle Etait\" recalls Serge Gainsbourg and Brigitte Bardot's collaborations, explosively jumping from one melodic idea to another at the sound of a massive cymbal crash or squealing violin.  These avantgarde tracks are exceptions, however, as most of this album falls within the conventionality of an open mic at Starbucks. Opener \"Seasick Casanova\" very acutely forecasts the album's lowlying goals. Kicking off with a hokey ocean wave sound effect, Blaschke's songwriting colors too perfectly within the lines, content with lullabylevel complexity. Even more disappointing, Blaschke doesn't sound engaged in her own songs, even with a ripe title like \"Seasick Casanova\". On strippeddown tracks like \"Tell Me You Been Lyin'\" and \"Double or Nothing\", DeWitt gets sent on an apparent bathroom break, spotting Blaschke's acoustic ditties with little more than some keyboard or (seriously) chirping bird sound effects.  Except for some brief, urgent outbursts, Blaschke's charisma could use a jumpstart or at least DeWitt could take the heat off with something more scintillating than his quaint, tablesetting accompaniments. Hopefully Night Canopy's still a project very much under construction, a teamup that just hasn't found its chemistry, because as their default songs reveal, the band's got its fair share of kinks to work out.  "}