{"label":" Migration Media","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10056/homepage_large.eed07c78.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Feltbattery","title":"It Had Wings","text":"  Japanese roboticist Masahiro Mori pioneered the theory of the \"uncanny valley.\" It holds that humanoid robots produce positive emotional responses in humans both up to a certain point of realism (the \"barelyhuman\") and after utter realism has been achieved. The gray area in between is the uncanny valley, a level of notquiterealism that produces feelings of unease. Think wax mannequins and lifelike yet gesturally stilted automatons, how they seem to question fundamental boundaries of the human. The natural history museum especially the smalltown variety that get by on ingenuity more than funding, where cavemen, Native Americans, flora, and fauna are frozen in glassencased, fluorescentlit pantomime resides in the uncanny valley of humanity's relationship to nature. Feltbattery's homemade sound art is the natural history museum in a recorded format. In the small North Carolina town of Hillsborough, Benjamin Trueblood and friends run birdsong, minimal percussion, humming voice, flute, recorder, and charango (a small South American lute) through pedals and laptops, arranging them in long, cycling loops. While the skewed natural representations of It Had Wings produce a lingering eeriness, their beatific phrasing undercuts their sense of unease. Here are some excerpts from the Feltbattery blog: \"Spring is creeping in, soggy toes and green everywhere...I've been paying attention to the colony collapse situation with our friends the bees and listening to the forest with all my little second graders. So much life and so much death...Incidentally, the house finches that inspired the piece 'a house finch' on It Had Wings have returned to nest in the rafters of my porch. I am going to try to record them again and perhaps make a video...\"  The reverent attention writ large in these musings is what makes Feltbattery's compositions resonate more broadly than their minimal sound palettes would seem to merit. On a subconscious level, art retains the aura of the work that went into it, and pragmatically, Trueblood's diligence has produced a compositionally sly album that works equally well as one long arrangement or eight discrete movements. Each track is dominated by a handful of repetitive rhythmic elements and a mood; a hypnotic continuity is achieved largely by holding over one element of the previous track in each new one.  So leaving behind the twittering nest of \"Birds Flew\", squiggly flutes plunge into the insistent rhythm and thickly textured ratcheting sounds (rather like something snorting and rooting in turf) of \"Meganser (Hooded)\". The flutes, shakers, and rooting sounds are rounded out by burbling hand percussion, woodland chatter, and cicada chirrs on \"Mock Influenza\", and the chirring bends into a high insectile whine amid the amplified beat of wings, insistent metallic percussion, and loopy vocal harmonies with jarring rhythmic squawks of \"Garuda\". The spiraling squawks gradually overtake the track and become the foundation of \"Split the Polygon\", then sporadically reappear throughout the monastic drones and graceful, chuffing fans of \"A House Finch\", which works itself into a gently convulsive electrical storm.  The final two tracks are a digest of the record's motifs, making for an understated crescendo, and It Had Wings ends with the snore of something that sounds large, something that, despite the record's placidity, one hopes will not wake up. Such ominous notes occur throughout Trueblood's idyllic meditations, and paired with the album's almostnatural affect, it renders his valley an uncanny place indeed.  "}