{"label":" Beggars Banquet","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10054/homepage_large.d48eed63.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The National","title":"Boxer","text":"  Among critics and fans, the National's third album Alligator has become synonymous with the term grower. Released to minor acclaim early in 2005, the album has since quietly and steadily built up a large, avid listenership. Matt Berninger's lyrics initially offputting and seemingly obtuse in their non sequiturs and stray details proved unpretentiously poetic over time. His sober baritone and dogged repetition of phrases and passages made it sound like he was trying to figure the songs out in tandem with the listener. The band, meanwhile, played around the hooks instead of hardselling them, so that in a sense, despite two previous albums and a killer EP, we all pretty much learned how to listen to the National on Alligator, eventually finding deeper shades of meanings in the words, sympathizing with Berninger's anxieties, laughing at his grim jokes, and tapping out the band's complex rhythms on desktops and steering wheels. It's a testament to the good will engendered by Alligator that fans are now likewise calling the National's followup, Boxer, a grower. Despite the scrutiny greeting its release (brought on by the inevitable leaks), many listeners seem to be approaching these songs patiently, giving Boxer the space and time to reveal its dark, asymmetrical passageways. In a sense, the album demands it. The same elements that kept listeners returning to Alligator (Berninger's clever turns of phrase, the band's dramatic intensity) are present on Boxer, but are now more restrained and controlled.  From the first piano chords on opener \"Fake Empire\", the National create a latenight, emptycitystreet mood, slightly menacing but mostly isolated. The 10 tracks that follow sustain and even amplify that feeling, revealing the band's range as they play close to the vest. Aaron and Bryce Dessner's twin guitars don't so much battle one another as create a unified layer that acts as a full backdrop for the other instruments, while touring member Padma Newsome's string and horn arrangements infuse songs like \"Mistaken for Strangers\" and the standout \"Ada\" (featuring Sufjan Stevens on piano) with subtle drama. But Boxer is a drummer's album: Bryan Devendorf becomes a main player here, never merely keeping time but actively pushing the songs around. With machine precision, his fluttering tom rhythms add a heartbeat to \"Squalor Victoria\" and give \"Brainy\" its stalker tension. In fact, the title Boxer could conceivably be a reference to the way his rhythms casually spar with Berninger's vocal melodies, jabbing and swinging at the singer's empathies and emotions.  Despite this implied violence, Boxer doesn't have the same aggressive selfreckoning and psychological damage assessment of Alligator. Here, Berninger sounds like he's able to look outward from that mental space instead of further inward. He observes the people around him friends, lovers, passersby alternately addressing them directly and imagining himself in their minds. Or, as he sings on \"Green Gloves\", \"Get inside their clothes with my green gloves/ Watch their videos, in their chairs.\" He sounds more genuinely empathetic than previously (the accusatory you from the first two albums is thankfully absent), toying with ambiguity and backing away from outright satire. Certain themes continue to prevail: He maintains a fear of whitecollar assimilation, addressing \"Squalor Victoria\" and \"Racing Like a Pro\" to upwardly mobile hipsteryuppies (\"Underline everything/ I'm a professional/ In my beloved white shirt\"), and clings to his American angst (\"We're half awake in a fake empire\"), as though recognizing the world's craziness makes him more sane.  Better even than these songs are the three midalbum tracks that toy with a love = war metaphor that miraculously avoids the obviousness that implies. On \"Slow Show\", over background guitar drones and a piano theme that echoes U2's \"New Year's Day\", he daydreams, \"I want to hurry home to you/ Put on a slow dumb show for you/ Crack you up.\" But the capper is in the coda: \"You know I dreamed about you for 29 years before I saw you.\" That hardwon contentment begins to crumble in \"Apartment Story\", in which the world invades the couple's shared space, and in \"Start a War\", where the possibility of loss looms threateningly. \"Walk away now and you're gonna start a war,\" Berninger sings against the band's simple, uncomfortably insistent rhythm, his concrete fears giving the song the extra heft of the personal.  Obviously, it's pretty easy to read a lot into the National's music and especially into Berninger's lyrics, but that shouldn't imply that Boxer is a willfully difficult or overly academic work. Like those on their last album, these songs reveal themselves gradually but surely, building to the inevitable moment when they hit you in the gut. It's the rare album that gives back whatever you put into it.  "}