{"label":" Beggars / Playlouderrecordings","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10061/homepage_large.232c0ab1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Voxtrot","title":"Voxtrot","text":"  Like the Sarah Records bands they owe so much of their musical aesthetic to, Austin indie rockers Voxtrot have, up to this point, relied upon EPs and seveninches as their preferred modes of distribution. But unlike their tweepop predecessors, the band also enjoyed the promotional boost of the mp3, and nurturing from online music communities which allowed them to leverage their few brief releases into a contract with the Beggars Group. Now backed by an honesttogod record deal, and with fans eagerly awaiting their next step, the band has attempted to transfer their mastery of the EP format to a full album. Unfortunately, it turns out to be something of an awkward translation. During the first episode of the band's YouTube albumrecording documentary \"Reaching for the Lasers\", bassist Jason Chronis admits, \"Everybody in the band was ready for things to sound more advanced. We only have three EPs out; it's funny that on our first album we feel like we have to make fairly big changes.\" Thus, the extended dramatic opening and stringladen climax of \"Introduction\", which feels like the prelude to something extravagant. Densely detailed, thinly produced EP tracks like \"Raised by Wolves\" and \"Mothers, Sisters, Daughters & Wives\" are perfect candidates for biggerbudget expansion, and Ramesh Srivastava's songwriting style loquacious, emotionally insecure, buoyant, and tidy carries over to Voxtrot in full force. The \"Kid Gloves\" lyric \"cheer me up, I'm a miserable fuck\" may not halt the Smiths comparisons any time soon, but the song's propulsive powerpop backdrop suggests a wellexecuted fleshingout of the sound that gained the group such a strong following. Likewise, \"Firecracker\" ascends an Arcade Firestyle bridge toward a satisfying, rocking chorus. Moments like these, however, are too few and far between, as the majority of the record's new tracks need to either be more focused or show more dynamic range. Voxtrot songs tend to rely more on successive alterations to nearmelodies than fullon excursions into big, transcendent melodic moments. Yet while the band continually strives for hugeness on their debut longplayer, they opt to force the issue through instrumental layering and sheer volume rather than retooling the songs at the base level. \"Easy\", for example, desperately wants to gleam but is flattened and disallowed the dynamic spikes it deserves. It's far from empty ambition more like unrealized potential but the band's M.O. here makes for a frustrating listen.  Srivastava's singing voice previously an attractively coy, boyish warble is a big casualty here, stretched beyond its very limited range, yet still trying to express sentiments fit for a latenight phone call. His coo feels appropriate when crafting a tranquil melody on \"The Future Pt. 1\" or demurely lamenting on \"Steven\", but it struggles to keep up with harder numbers like \"Brother in Conflict\" or the cluttered closer \"Blood Red Blood\", finding itself buried in the mix. It suffers a bit of melodramatic misuse as well, most obviously on the mushy latealbum slow jam \"Real Life Version\".  Of course, that Voxtrot failed to make a careerdefining record on their first attempt should not be held against them it was simply turned around too quickly. Their internet celebrity has uniquely magnified their tenure and significance, and the resulting echo chamber of hype and anticipation has more than likely placed an unfair burden on them to produce a work out of frame with their intentions. If Chronis' above quote is an indication of the full group's mindset while recording, they placed similar pressure on themselves as well. As a result, Voxtrot shows a young band eagerly trying to have it all: attempting to establish a mature musical identity while aiming for a wide audience. Voxtrot may very well have a great pop record within them, yet their first effort stumbles from the band's enthusiastic, ambitious attempt to produce it immediately.  "}