{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10068/homepage_large.94671f6b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"John Wiese","title":"Soft Punk","text":" Soft Punk is the first fulllength album released by California harsh noise and parasympathetic drone aesthete John Wiese on New Jersey's Troubleman Unlimited, an eager imprint that's been treading the turbulent waters between sonic abstraction and punk aggression for a decade. Through TMU's smallbatch/goodrecords approach, bands like Growing and Double Leopards share shelves with Meneguar and Panthers (not to mention Glass Candy, Tussle and The Walkmen), meeting somewhere near the fuckall eruptions of Wolf Eyes and now in the careful and meticulous, feverish and intoxicating noise of Wiese. Recorded between 2002 and 2005, Soft Punk is a zenithal intersection of everything Wiese has done right for the past decade: Collagist tendencies meet drone hyperabilities; assaulting glitches and glissandos come buried between near silence and hairraising volume; beauty is refracted through sonic brutality. The title Soft Punk seems to have two functions, then: Like its brilliant cover art by Kaz Oshiro three bright pink Marshall amplifiers that are, as the back cover shows, simply stretchedcanvas, threedimensional paintings of such fantasy gear Soft Punk suggests looking and listening again, of rethinking that ugly noise/punk divide. Just when you think you have a handle on Wiese, he's onto something else. There's always a next level here. No, this isn't punk, and it's not soft. But it's not simple sheets of harsh noise, either. Wiese's constant push and pull and his eventual acquiescence to let things build and burn are capable of rock's epiphany and articulation, even if it's \"just a bunch of god damned noise\" in the end.Soft Punk is a statement of process, too. Under the name Sissy Spacek which he uses for both solo work and collaborations Wiese manipulates and processes his own recordings and spews them back as ultradamaged, somethinglikepunk, morelikenoise spasms. Here, he's sampling his punk rock friends again, stacking those sounds crowd cheers, drum rolls, drumstick counts on top and inside of his own. During \"Snow Pit\", Wiese concentrates on snippets from Olympia trio Die Monitor Bats, using a live set's beginnings, ends, and screaming innards as heavy construction paper and bright crayons. He drops drumstick counts into the mix four times, sprinting in wildly different directions after each. It's either \"One, two, three, four, NEAR SILENCE\" or \"One, two, three four, OH SHIT! LOUD!\" Take your chances, sucker.  Much like Japanese electronic composer Ryoji Ikeda, Wiese excels in making clean, precise cuts between drastically different sounds, building a dropdead dynamic capable of stepping from almostabsent rumbles and hums to furious noise bursts. This is apparent on \"PS2\", where Wiese uses baitandswitch, buildandkill mechanics as his chief compositional tool. He buries valleys into peaks and somehow finds peaks that are higher and more rugged with uncanny persistence. A machinegun rhythm reverses into a glitchy spasm, then settles into a pressurized monotone before ducking into nearnothingness. None of these sounds lasts for more than three seconds, but such vacillations never seem rushed with Wiese. He's always in control, the master of a sonic domain that reaches farandwide, highandlow with enthusiasm and magnetism. It's as though he collects a world of sound and spits it out piecemeal methodically, dramatically, emphatically through a morphing matrix designed for ricochets. Falling in love with a sliver of sound only to be slapped senselessly by something totally unrelated? It's as maddening as it is exhilarating.  But the proof is in Soft Punk's center: During a threetrack, midalbum stretch, Wiese eases into a neon pink drone, a beautiful sound that he just won't leave alone. He bends and shocks it, reshapes it, piles drums on top of it, overdrives it, and eventually altogether destroys it. When the track expires with a blitz of malformed waves, Wiese builds a perfect, longtone aubade reminiscent of Jason Lescalleet's work on \"The Pilgrim\". For those who haven't heard it, \"The Pilgrim\" was Lescalleet's gorgeous 74minute farewell to his deceased father, all gentle tones fanfaring gradually into outer space. For three minutes, Wiese sings a similar sigh, perhaps letting the body of the punk rock he's setting on fire burn away at the midpoint. And then, as he should, Wiese thrusts all of his weight into \"New Wave Dust\", perhaps the album's most chaotic, relentless, damaging track.  Power electronics? Oh my. Punk rock? If only.  "}