{"label":" Ace Fu","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10073/homepage_large.c24acb2b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Illinois","title":"What the Hell Do I Know? EP","text":" With the release of each new Wilco album comes the niggling disappointment that it's not going to be another Summerteeth still the band's most successful attempt at casting their countryrock rusticity in a gilded, bigproduction glow. That it's Wilco's second lowestselling record (after debut AM) may put me in the minority, but after spending a few lazy Sundays with the debut EP by Illinois, I'm pretty sure these guys can relate. They may hail from smalltown Pennsylvania and have a banjo player as a frontman, but Illinois' stock trade is rootsrock uprooted: Dust Bowl balladry that's been yanked out of the soil and set free to float away. If Illinois don't add anything new to the indie rock conversation, they are clearly wellversed in the proper lingo: this sevensong EP hurtles skyward on a billowy bed of \"ba da ba ba bas,\" those onomonopoetic endearments that softened up a million Pavement and Yo La Tengo songs. Illinois are decidedly less obtuse in their emotional expressions: That the chorus to opener \"Alone Again\" repeats the phrase \"I'm alone again\" pretty much sums it up. But even Illinois' most downcast songs possess a heady grandeur that serves to leaven their simplistic, sadsack sentiments, particularly on splendorous pianopop serenade \"What Can I Do For You\", whose dejected disposition (\"So this is goodbye/ I miss that look in your eye\") is remedied by a swooning chorus and a tasteful banjo break that's more affective than decorative in function. What's most impressive about Illinois at this early stage is their ability to indulge in lovelorn lyricism and cosmiccowboy reveries while honoring pop music's premium on levity and brevity (the longest song here clocks in at 3:14). And besides, it's not all tearsinbeers here: \"Screendoor\" is 128 seconds of acousticstrummed rolling rock and callandresponse \"ooh ooh ooh\" elation, and the uncharacteristic hayseed funk of \"Nosebleed\" offers a quaint reminder of that fleeting period in the mid90s when anyone associated with Beck got an instant deal with DGC and the Flaming Lips hit the top 40. The latter song's quirks distorted megaphoned vocals, compressed drum beats reappear in much less satisfying form on the concluding spokenword ramble \"Bad Day\", which feels more like a Bside toss off than a closing statement, and suggests Illinois will need more than just a few banjo plucks to establish their own singular personality. Still, amid the grand lineage of bands named after states, I'll take 'em over Texas or Kansas. "}