{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10084/homepage_large.4da8e636.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"David Bowie","title":"Best of Bowie: 1980-1987","text":" Unlike many of his 70s peers, David Bowie had little trouble adjusting to the 1980s. After all, his career was built upon mediaimage manipulation entering a decade that, with the advent of MTV, would become obsessed with it. But instead of trying to outglam the growing legions of synthpop insurgents copping his old alien/androgyne persona, David Bowie's defining image in this era was to just be David Bowie: a debonair pop idol with pinupworthy blond hair, designer suits, moviestar ambitions, and a cameraready smile that shone brighter than a paparazzi pit. But if the first few years of the 80s saw Bowie score his biggest hits, the latter half found him in danger of losing his relevancy, and faced with the impossibility of sustaining his early, carefully cultivated mystique and vanguard reputation. You can chart this wayward path by his choice of side men: In 1980 his guitarist of choice was Robert Fripp; by 1987 it was Peter Frampton. This third installment of the Best of David Bowie budgetcomp series may begin at a year with a nice, round, inaugural number, but with respect to Bowie's discography, 1980 is a somewhat arbitrary entry point. Compared to what followed, the selections from his 1980 signature work Scary Monsters (And Super Creeps) feel like the product of another era (not to mention another record company it was his last album for RCA before jumping to Virgin). The android funk of \"Fashion\", the Berlinbound sleaze of \"Scary Monsters\", and the unnerving singalong \"Up the Hill Backwards\" feel like the closing acts of a Teutonicsoul cycle that began with 1976's Station to Station, while the paranoid \"Ashes to Ashes\" sends the posthippie/scifi idealism of Bowie's glam heyday crashing down to earth. As the ensuing decades have shown, these songs also marked the last time Bowie's pop and avantgarde instincts were so perfectly in sync. Following his triumphant Queen collaboration \"Under Pressure\" a song so awesome, not even Vanilla Ice could kill it the 80s would begin in earnest for Bowie with Let's Dance, whose authoritative title track aptly opens this loosely chronological compilation. For an album so inextricably linked to the year 1983, its MTVsaturated singles hardly bear the musty scent of retro artifacts: On his 2002 Heathen tour, Bowie performed a veritable live mashup of \"Modern Love\", grafting the song's melody onto the galloping guitar groove of the Strokes' \"Someday\", perhaps as a sly nod to the New York newbies' copying skills, but also to remind us of the song's ageless bounce. Like Bowie's production work on Raw Power 10 years earlier, the Let's Dance redux of his 1977 Iggy Pop cowrite \"China Girl\" was a goodwill gesture to boost the earning potential of his downandout buddy, but Bowie's more dignified performance has surpassed Iggy's original as the definitive take (although its bareass video may have given it an unfair advantage). Amid the hairraising \"Twist and Shout\" teases of \"Let's Dance\", you almost overlook the uncanny contrast between the song's alluring, hornyfunk accents and Bowie's leering, almost dreadridden delivery. The enduring appeal of Let's Dance is all the more remarkable when placed next to the poorly dated quality of Bowie's remaining 80s output. On previous Best of David Bowie installments, the obvious hits were supplemented by wellcurated album tracks, but the paucity of exemplary material from 1984's Tonight (a.k.a. Let's Dance Some More) and 1987's Never Let Me Down don't provide much of an opportunity for reassessment: With its fauxsteeldrum refrain and synthpolished easyrock groove, Tonight's \"Loving the Alien\" is hardly the epic its sevenminute run time suggests, while Never Let Me Down's \"DayIn DayOut\" captured Bowie in the unfortunate position of playing catchup to Duran Duran three years too late. Additionally, the compilation is padded with Bowie's middling soundtrack contributions of the era, some of which hold up on the strength of the songwriting (the protoPulp soul of \"Absolute Beginners\", for instance), but several of which can't shake off their ohso80s accoutrement (the protoEnigma newage gothisms of \"This Is Not America\" from The Falcon and the Snowman, or the goofy ersatz gospel of Labyrinth's \"Underground\"). But hey, things could be worse thanks to this compilation's 1987 cutoff date, we're spared the task of reconsidering Tin Machine. "}