{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10085/homepage_large.90b1f35c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Various Artists","title":"D-I-Y: Do It Yourself","text":" In the late 1970s, making and releasing a record all by yourself could be framed as a revolutionary political gesture and a sign that you were busting out of the music business's cultural apparatus. The first record to come out of D.I.Y. as it's defined by this Soul Jazz compilation was also one of the first British punk records: the Buzzcocks' Spiral Scratch EP, represented here by the deathless \"Boredom\". But, of course, D.I.Y. wasn't a movement in the usual sense more like the parallel activities of a whole lot of bands who didn't fit in anywhere, and mostly didn't even have much of an affiliation with each other. Luckily for them, punk opened up possibilities for a lot of other kinds of misfit music to find some kind of audience, however small. The world could use a great onedisc survey of the UK doityourself scene's early years, which the likes of Hyped2Death's Messthetics series have been documenting; unfortunately, this isn't it. For one thing, a definitive D.I.Y. compilation would have to include something by the Desperate Bicycles, who made their own process and ideology the subject of their best single, \"The Medium Was Tedium\". (The Desperate Bicycles have never permitted their music to be officially reissued; you can hear them with a little Googling, though.) For another, about half of DIY is actually from records released by labels that weren't run by their artists, which muddies the point. It's more like a random sampling from the early years of independent distribution, which makes for more interesting reading than listening. And the album's chronological scope extends from 1977 to Red Lorry Yellow Lorry's 1986 instrumental \"Paint Your Wagon\", whose brittle, doomy crunch doesn't have much of an aesthetic relationship to, say, \"Boredom\". There seem to be a handful of compilations struggling to cut themselves loose from this disc: one of them might be comprised of icy, pasty Britfunk (A.P.B.'s \"All Your Life With Me\", Glaxo Babies' \"Shake the Foundations\", Biting Tongues' \"You Can Choke Like That\"), another devoted to Suicideinspired electronics and ghostly dub throbs (the Naffis, Russ McDonald, Windows, Thomas Leer, Throbbing Gristle), another filled with poets and comedians who found that music was a better way to get people to pay attention (Artery, Patrick Fitzgerald, the ridiculous preSimply Red band Frantic Elevators). All that would be fine if DIY worked as an album. But it doesn't, really, despite the presence of some extraordinary songs: Swell Maps' buzzbomb \"Let's Build a Car\", Blurt's monomaniacal headbutt \"The Fish Needs a Bike\", Kleenex's joyfully crude \"Ain't You\" (one of only two tracks here with women's voices), Scritti Politti's fluttercrawling dub mutation \"Skank Bloc Bologna\". The presence of the latter two is just a reminder of how much better Rough Trade's longoutofprint Wanna Buy a Bridge? compilation, on which they both appear, documented the musical and historical moment this hints at. Everything on both that record and DIY has its jagged edges, but Bridge fit them together into an improbable, luminous mosaic. This collection is just a pile of broken glass with some beautiful shards in it.  "}