{"label":" Wildflower","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10094/homepage_large.14101b1d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"The Saints","title":"Imperious Delirium","text":" The Saints were the first breakout stars from Australia's simmering late 1970s punk scene. They were also one of the first to come to the conclusion that punk just wasn't enough. Following 1977's monster \"(I'm) Stranded\", the Saints branched out with \"Eternally Yours\", soon going even further afield with \"Prehistoric Sounds\". Casual fans checked out, and soon so did coleader Ed Kuepper, leaving partner Chris Bailey to carry on with the Saints name. The recent reunion of fellow Aussie pioneers Radio Birdman has somewhat overshadowed the continued output of the Saints, which aside from the very rare reunion with his old bandmates remains Bailey and whomever he calls his bandmates. As recently as 2005 that included Martin WilsonPiper of the Church, but with Imperious Delirium the Saints are down to a trio. Still, Bailey is at the helm, and he plays all the guitars, so it's a Saints record. Close enough, right? It's to both the band's credit and detriment that Imperious Delirium could have been released at nearly any time in the last 30 years by nearly any neopunk guitar band from that span. Of course, the Saints aren't just any band, and this is 2007, not 1977. So how much of the Saints legacy should be taken into account when assessing the record?  On its face, Imperious Delirium sounds like a promising, aboveaverage demo, muddy sound and all. It's more than listenable if totally unexceptional stuff. But if it weren't by the Saints, would we be listening at all? And if it had come from the Saints circa '77, would be still be listening to it today?  Probably not. If anything, the album hearkens back to the days just before punk, when garage and pub rock ruled the underground and bands like the Stooges, MC5 and later the New York Dolls bridged the gap between rote riffage and something louder, faster, leaner and meaner. Ironically, for a band with so much history and now a whopping 13 albums to its name, the Saints here sounds like they're just getting their feet wet, readying themselves for a revolution yet to come. It's the most retro of retro stances, and the results are predictably modest.  \"Other Side of the World\" could be a nice forgotten Johnny Thunders ballad, while \"So Close,\" \"Je Fuckin' T'Aime\", and \"Drowning\" sound like little notquite classic garage nuggets/Nuggets. When Bailey gets poppy, as he does with \"Getting Away With Murder\", \"Learning to Crawl\", and \"War of Independence\" you can hear a bit of Tom Verlaine in his writing, or at least Television aficionado Steve Wynn of the Dream Syndicate.  It's fun but spotty stuff, and ultimately less than impressively mundane. What's missing is any real sense of inspiration or imperative, any compelling reason for it to exist outside of extending a legacy that many would argue ended at the dawn of the 80s. Change the name, or change the direction, but a legendary band in name alone does the legend no favors.  "}