{"label":" No Fun","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10105/homepage_large.7d0a75f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Carlos Giffoni / Merzbow / Jim O'Rourke","title":"Electric Dress","text":"  When Brooklyn noise fiend Carlos Giffoni set out for Japan last fall, he had just about finished his first allanalog solo album, Arrogance. Sticking to computerless mode, he dubbed his fivedate Far East jaunt \"The Synth Destruction Tour.\" At a duo show with Merzbow, Giffoni was surprised to find Masami Akita in a similar mode. The King of Japanese Noise also chose to play the gig with only analog equipment, including his infamous homemade instrument comprised of springs and junk metal. It was the first time Akita had worked without a laptop or other digital implements in at least a decade. Recordings from that date were released in April on Important as Synth Destruction, and now Giffoni has issued the pair's only other performance from the tour in a trio with Jim O'Rourke on his own No Fun label. O'Rourke edited and mastered the album's single 52minute track, a relentless, exhaustive journey through nearly every synth noise imaginable. Whirring static, spurting effects, heavy drones: everything you'd expect from three prolific noisemakers is here, all doled out in big, dense brush strokes. Yet Electric Dress is no oppressive onslaught. Each participant is careful to share and trade sonic space with the other, and what could have been claustrophobic or suffocating is instead a balanced improvisation, akin to a thoughtful free jazz session.  Most interesting is how no one here shies away from any kind of sound. Even the most standard synth noodlings and laserlike squiggles are given equal chance to make a dent. Any noise aficionado has heard all these sounds before, but the way the trio times them, massaging them to fit inside the mix's everchanging shape, breathes new life into wellworn sonic tools.  Not that Electric Dress will win over many skeptics. The album is actually relatively easy to enter, opening with 20 minutes of varied sounds that form minipatterns, even getting rhythmic at times. But once the noises pile up, things ascend into a challenging assault that rarely recedes. From there, a diverse collection of sonic parts add up to a monolithic sum the kind only noise obsessives are likely to sift through.  But for such diehards, Electric Dress is a ton of fun to get lost in, living up to any expectations these three daunting names might inspire. Merzbow was back in the States just recently to play Giffoni's No Fun Fest, but the creative success of this record demands that Giffoni return the favor, and get back into Akita and O'Rouke's sonic territory as soon as possible.  "}