{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10106/homepage_large.530deb3a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Bonde Do Rolê","title":"With Lasers","text":"  A few months ago, on a weeknight when I just wanted to catch the \"American Idol\" results and be in bed at a reasonable time, I was coaxed out by some friends to catch a set by those young, Manic Paniccoiffed Brazilian indie kids Bonde Do Role. Tired and cranky, I gave Bonde my best armsfolded, disdainful rock critic ice grill for as long as my shriveled Grinch heart could hold out. I wasn't quite sure when the band finally won me over was it the track that chopped up Europe's \"The Final Countdown\" or when singer Marina Vello stuffed her microphone down the front of her tights and began airhumping with Pretty Ricky vigor? but my crankiness quickly melted away in the face of the trio's pungent and playful shtick, oversexed and overdosed on the beat from ToneLoc's \"Wild Thing\". Bonde do Role are constantly bracketed with CSS and Diplo in the press. The Diplo connection is obvious: The dilettante cratedigger discovered them on a vacation to Rio and released an earlier EP on his boutique label, Mad Decent. But forget the association with CSS, the adorable dayglo cult cargo that washed up on American shores at roughly the same time: They may share an unusual fashion sense (Marina, sporting a Paul Revere and the Raidersstyle puddingbowl haircut, stuffs herself into a pair of tootight leopard print stretch pants), but Bonde's jones for baile funk, the popular fusion of hiphouse, Miami bass, and Latin beats that rose to international prominence in recent years, thanks in part to championing from a number of acclaimed DJs, sets them apart.With Lasers, the group's debut album, opens with a Van Halen hammeron, Gregorian chanting, and a growling computer voice that falls halfway between Vincent Price and the iron man who kicked off Rob Base and DJ EZRock's \"It Takes Two\". And what we get for the rest of the album isn't so much indie kids versioning baile funk as... antmusic! Maybe it's just the fact that 10 of its 12 songs clock in under three minutes (some barely squeak to two), or that the platonic baile funk beat sounds so much like an offbrand Latin version of the Burundi stomp with some added SaltNPepa snap and pop, but you can totally imagine Marina as the takenoshit 21stcentury Annabella Lwin with bandmates Pedro D'Eyrot and Rodrigo Gorky acting as the twoman Bow Wow Wow behind her especially on \"James Bonde\", with its distortotwang surf guitar, or the Bo Diddley cruiseship sound of \"Tieta\". Bonde do Role may have inherited their homeland's love of really crappy sounding 808s and breakbeats that rattle like coconuts in the breeze, but they friggin' love cheesy guitars. I mean, terrible sports bar bluesband buttrock licks and 90s grunge grunts (an earlier single turned the detuned wah riff of Alice in Chains' \"Man in the Box\" into a dance hook), and the hairiest of hair metal. Just like baile funk. And also like baile funk, you can't really describe it as \"ersatz\" because the whole genre is ersatz as fuck, and Bonde's baile is one, two steps from the \"real\" thing. Cheerleader chants and horny panting! Incredibly cheap programmed drums and pop culture quotes! Booty bass beats and inexplicable Afrika Bambaataa shoutouts played on Todd Terry's vocalchopping keyboard! (Bonde loves the vocal stutter effect almost as much as they love guitars.) As with baile funk, this lowbudget throwback is an aesthetic virtue for Bonde do Role. It's a building block the horns on \"Tieta\" are as tinny and offtherack as any Trinidadian soca hit, while \"Caminhao de Gas\" rocks and the 8bit video game hook not a necessityisthemotherofinvention thirdworld practicality. Those of us lacking a functional understanding of Portuguese will have to approach the chants as universal partystarting sexurge noises that go beyond language which isn't hard to do, really, since Bonde probably aren't exactly flipping Rakim or Lil' Wayne level metaphor. If With Lasers suffers for anything, it's the fact that no one's figured out a way to get sweaty leopard print crotches onto CDs just yet. I do wonder how much of my enjoyment derives from my memories of the Bonde do Role live gig and its awkward but nonironic booty popping, pheromones, and spilled beer. But there's still a lot of pleasure to be had during the humid months this year in imagining the Bonde kids shaking their barelylegal, jiggling stuff as they trade off raps on record like RunDMC. And if you're part of the generation that's erased the distance between dancing and dry humping, With Lasers should easily get you through a long, hot summer of awkward hookups at backyard barbecues.  "}