{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10116/homepage_large.8fc1785c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Cex","title":"Sketchi","text":" No sooner was Rjyan Kidwell beloved for being the most accessible purveyor of a then invogue IDM than he switched to, in order, whiteboy rap, industrial flailing, public nudity, standup comedy, traditional indierock, bedroom production, and recently, maritalaid funk. Sketchi, a limitedrelease on Temporary Residence, chooses hollowedout studioreggae as its new frontier. Cex's vaunted aversion to continuity holds up all that remains from his last release, Actual Fucking, is a reprisal of that record's \"Denton\" (on \"Damon Kvols\") and similarly eyecatching graphic design.Actual Fucking's cover depicted a guy jizzing, in big comic book droplets, on a girl's arched back. Sketchi oneups its predecessor with an altered still from Twins: A black cloud of smoke pours out of Danny DeVito, obscuring most of Arnold Schwarzenegger. In place of DeVito's face is an explosion and a collagedin cloud of debris. We're meant to recall the World Trade Center towers at the moment they came down Kidwell's provocations just don't stop. Whether it's worth overcoming whatever reaction this elicits in you, I have no idea. As it happens, Sketchi is one of Cex's best records: rhythmically convincing, menacingly dark. Distance and space are what Kidwell's added: The skittish, distant drumandbass of \"Rattler Bin\" comes as if from three or four blocks away, while \"Camber Sands\" expands indefinitely out of a single sound, something like a hollow pipe falling to the ground. Lateperiod Boredoms and Cex's fellow Baltimore noise act Wzt Hearts come to mind on tracks such as the oceansteady \"Goober Says\". Plus, Kidwell's endemic hostility to his own audience finally comes in handy. His new songs, in their repetitive cruelty, are more affecting for being abusive. \"Damon Kvols\", Sketchi's restless opener, adds inaudible, howling chants and moans to an already centerless bass and impatient delay; the discomfort of the stray sounds and the low end's relentless pulse only multiplies over the track's 10 minutes. Kidwell strips away all the extras including his recently ubiquitous vocals to bring you facetoface with the almost sickeningly steady motion often hidden within his compositions. Does anybody actually listen to old Cex records? One byproduct of Kidwell's experiments has been to firmly date each record of his, in sequence. But it's hard to imagine him being able to derail Sketchi and its persuasive simplicity, even if he doesn't make another record like it. "}