{"label":" Zealous","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10115/homepage_large.7c4f38c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Soul Sides, Volume 2: The Covers","text":"  It's a bit perplexing when a blog especially one as historically minded as Oliver Wang's encyclopedic Soul Sides releases a compilation CD, much less an ongoing series. For one thing, there's the financial aspect: several of these tracks have ostensibly been available for free download at some time or another. Why buy the cow and so on? More crucially, there's the technological aspect: Mp3 blogs offer a product that is supposed to make compact discs obsolete. So why bother retrofitting your merchandise to increasingly irrelevant technology, especially when sales of music in corporeal form are tanking? While I can't speak for Wang or anyone at Zealous Records, there are two possible reasons for setting up this series on disc. First, the audience for decadesold soul music (aside from music critics of course) may tend to skew much older than visitors to sites like Stereogum or Said the Gramophone, attracting an audience that's still grumbling about the quality loss from vinyl to CD and don't get them started on CD to digital. So this is a means of branding Wang's site to a larger audience that might not look to the internet as a first source for music. Second, the music nearly demands the medium. Apart from a few notable exceptions like Isaac Hayes' Hot Buttered Soul or Marvin Gaye's What's Going on, soul favors emotion conveyed in quick bursts rather than drawn out across an album, which has made the music easily compilable under endless themes artists, labels, songwriters, eras, cities, even subject matter. From Memphis Soul Classics to the Numero Group's Eccentric Soul project to the latest Trikont musical essay, the compilation may be the most effective delivery system for the music and the most useful summation of its development. Releasing CDbased compilations is a means for Wang not only to collect and comment on that history, but also to participate in it.  Just two volumes into its hopefully lengthy run, Soul Sides speaks to the depth and breadth of Wang's collection, mixing the new and the old, the obscure and, well, the slightly less obscure. These two discs cover decades, tracing the music from its roots to its current manifestations while offering an admirably inclusive definition of soul. Following the themeless but solid Volume 1, Volume 2 is billed as a covers compilation, which is perhaps inevitable considering that the best tracks on Volume 1 were Donny Hathaway's betterthantheoriginal take on John Lennon's \"Jealous Guy\" and Erma Franklin's \"Piece of My Heart\". Avoiding obvious choices and easy novelties, Wang unearths some gems: Volume 2 kicks off with Sharon Cash's enormous and immediate \"Fever\", with its immense horns and her immenser vocals. Al Green doesn't change very much on the Beatles' \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\", but his ecstatic delivery completely reinvents the tune. Following the organdrenched uptempo jam of Spanky Wilson's \"Kissing My Love\", O.V. Wright's performance on his grave cover of Latimore's \"Let's Straighten It Out\" strikes a fine balance between despair over a lover's sadness and hope that they can resolve it, giving his pleading a sense of firm authority.  Wang's choice of songs is nearly impeccable, but his presentation seems problematic. Volume 2 moves via unintentionally jarring transitions and awkward juxtapositions. For example, Green's \"I Wanna Hold Your Hand\" sets up Esther Phillips' coolly bitter \"Home Is Where the Hatred Is\", which is then followed by Marcia Griffiths' slinky \"Here I Am (Come and Take Me)\". It's a strange sequence that detracts from Phillips' reallife hopelessness and makes the physicality of Green's and Griffiths' songs sound frivolous.  Wang backloads Volume 2 with singleplay curios like El Michels Affair's nearly notefornote recreation of Isaac Hayes' \"Walk on By\" (itself a cover of a Burt Bacharach tune) and Laura Lee's sluggish \"What a Man\", which has none of the robust spirit of Linda Lyndell's original. These might have sounded stronger peppered throughout the album, but together, they weigh down the comp's second half. It might seem nitpicky to point out sequencing missteps like these, but any good compilation and especially a soul compilation should be able to generate a larger groove, with each track building on the previous to create a fluid arc from start to finish. The tracklist for Volume 2 actively detracts and distracts from each song's impact and meaning, which makes the whole sound disjointed. But that's what playlists are for.  "}