{"label":" Dangerbird / Speak 'n' Spell","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10112/homepage_large.0b995693.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Dappled Cities","title":"Granddance","text":"  I had the pleasure the privilege, really of seeing Dappled Cities live on their home turf of Sydney, Australia, several months ago. It's not every day or even every decade that I get to go to a concert in another hemisphere, and they put on a good show both times I saw them, once in an art gallery/clothing store and once in a club so sweaty the walls were dripping. What struck me even more, perhaps, was the row of utterly smitten expressions on the faces of the girls who crowded up to the front of the stages, sang along to every song and screamed their lungs out in the gaps between. I think what I valued about the show was being able to experience a band that was trying to become an international entity on a local level, seeing those fans who'd watched the band grow up and looked up to them. The larger world will never understand a band in the same way as the people in its hometown, and it's background I wish I could get more often. Dappled Cities alternately known as Dappled Cities Fly have hopped stateside with the release of their second album, and it's a record that doesn't skimp on the grand gesture, opening with its most bluntly dramatic track. The song is even called \"Holy Chord\", and it's a swelling, shimmering thing that announces the album with clipped verses that build up to a huge, grandiose falsetto hook. The band builds behind vocalist Tim Derricourt, finally leaping into a charge at the beginning of the third verse, where it begins building up again. The sound is built for an era where the Arcade Fire rules the indie rock world it's big and complex and pipelines emotion straight to your speakers. Derricourt shares lead vocals with fellow guitarist Dave Rennick and frequently plays the introverted foil to his partner's more theatrical presence. It keeps the album balanced and helps the flow considerably.  A frequently overlooked aspect of most great bands is the presence of an inventive drummer in the lineup, someone capable of more than just a standard beat. Hugh Boyce is such a drummer, and his work helps each song carve out a distinct identity behind its melody. \"Work It Out\" is the most obvious example of this, with its thundering, staccato snare runs and sizzling crash cymbal, but even his more subtle moments can subtly transform a song. On \"Beach Song\", for instance, he rides the toms on one and three, creating a heartbeat effect behind Ned Cooke's drifting keyboards.  He brings this approach to the album's most obvious single, the sweeping, midtempo \"Fire Fire Fire\", which opens with a fanfare that sounds like it could either be guitars or keyboards or both. The song's delivery is restrained, even subdued, but it still sticks in your head right away its very restraint is probably a big part of what makes the moments where Rennick and Derricourt double each other or break into falsetto even more memorable. On \"Vision Bell\", the vocals trade off falsetto and normal lines, giving the song a conversational backandforth that draws you in. Bassist Alex Moore holds back until the second verse, and when he drops in, it completely changes the feel of the song, the way a rip tide changes the feel of a leisurely swim.  Dappled Cities are a mature band with a highly evolved sense of songcraft and arrangement. Aside from merely writing them, they know how to inhabit songs and make them breathe. It's that quality elevates Granddance beyond being simply good and makes it occasionally border on great.  "}