{"label":" PACrec","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10111/homepage_large.33965d61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Jazzkammer & Howard Stelzer","title":"Tomorrow No One Will Be Safe","text":" Improvised music is usually more enlightening live than on record; the mechanisms behind the madness often illuminate the sounds without demystifying them. It's kind of a reverse Wizard of Oz effect: Paying attention to the people behind the aural curtain makes their creations even more magical or at least trickier than the sounds alone might suggest. I've never seen Jazzkammer, the Norwegian duo of John Hegre and Lasse Marhaug, but based on their busy recorded output and mysterious use of guitar and electronics, my bet is they're fascinating to watch. I have seen Howard Stelzer, and he definitely is. The Bostonbased sound artist works mostly with cassette tapes, and the way he exploits this fading technology discovering sounds in rewinds, hiss, and dirt is a unique sight. Given their intriguing methods, it's hard not to think of recordings by Stelzer and Jazzkammer as halfexperiences, like a TV show with the sound turned off. But their records are really starting points calling cards for the audiovisual experience each offers in concert. Tomorrow No One Will Be Safe, taken from a 2004 Jazzkammer/Stelzer American jaunt, certainly contains enough interesting sonic matter to tide anyone over until either act's next tour. The first cut, \"Requiem for Officer Bobby Barker\", is by Jazzkammer alone. It begins nearly silent, with small, creaking sounds that evoke the minimalism of AMM. As the pair gradually distribute metallic clangs, morsecodelike blips, and filtered static, their swelling mix becomes like a wordless shortwave radio conversation. That the piece ends with a noisy maelstrom might be predictable, but it's the way Jazzkammer gets there building noise through patient, organic construction that's the surprise. Stelzer follows with a stranger solo piece, \"Last Night at BLD\". His sounds don't build so much as they randomly fire, shooting all over the place without any obvious interest in meshing or melding. Springy twangs, warping scratches, and the sound of tape rolling over playheads all create a cartoon soundtrack without the music. Close your eyes and you can almost see the ACME products exploding in time to Stelzer's picturesque noise. Most compelling is the collaborative, albumending title track. Stelzer's tape warps chime in immediately, tempered by Jazzkammer's low guitar rumbles and electronic slashes. Loops of noise provide rhythm here and there, but the main attraction is the connective tissue that the three use to string their noises into arcs. Jump around the track and you'll swear all these different sounds couldn't possibly fit together, but somehow Stelzer and Jazzkammer make it all stick through simple listening and response. Whatever the shortcomings of improvised noise on record, releases like this are the only chance most people will get to hear these two Norwegian noise hounds meld minds with a Massachusetts tape addict. As such, Tomorrow No One Will Be Safe is a pretty valuable document. "}