{"label":" Static Discos","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10117/homepage_large.c56b71c1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Antiguo Autómata Mexicano","title":"Kraut Slut","text":"  Late last year Ángel Sánchez Borges released a minialbum of ethereal dronepop under the name Seekers Who Are Lovers. Seekers could be considered a side project for Borges if he didn't have so many things going on at once; he's also an experimental video artist of some renown, and now returns as Antiguo Autómata Mexicano, the name he uses for instrumental journeys into beatdriven minimalism. In 2005 he released his debut AAM record Microhate on the German label Backgroung; followup Kraut Slut is his first release for the Tijuanabased label Static Discos. Given the titles of the album and the first track here, \"Rother, Dinger, You, and Me\", you might guess you're in for a concept record. And \"Rother\" certainly delivers on that score, channeling the spirit and the sound of classic Neu! with almost frightening accuracy, but doing so in an even more compact and completely digital package. It's basically a cover tune, but covering a sound as opposed to a song; Borges programs a simple series of pulses to mimic the interplay between Dinger's stark and insistent drum pulse frames Rother's buzzing, carefully picked guitar. Both the idea and the execution are fantastic. But Kraut Slut doesn't stay long on the motorik road. \"Mitte\" sticks with sharp, crackly beats but drapes over them a soft curtain of static and lush chords suggesting a much more amorphous and dreamy headspace. It has the pulse of techno, but in terms of mood \"Mitte\" is closer to the shadowy and sensual world of his Seekers work. Same goes for \"Extirpe\" which is mostly slowdrift synthetic drone, with just a few percussive beeps and rips lurking in the shadows, while \"Harm and Jazz\" kicks up so much digital dust it the foreground, a constantly shifting collage of machine noise and buzzes, you can barely make out the steady bass and drums moving somewhere behind. \"Malandro de Culto\" and \"Ill Stijl\" are Borges' excursion into more dancefloororiented techno, and the latter especially, with its precise but busy array of bleeps, is a particularly focused beam of forwardmoving energy.  So then, album title and opening track aside, what exactly binds these disparate elements into a single project? Borges seems most drawn to microleaning computer music as a way to conjure atmosphere; there's a lot of suggestion in Borges' music, hints at various possibilities, and you never get the sense that the technology always at the forefront considering the persistent use of glitches and noise is the music's subject. On its own, Kraut Slut is an evocative sampling of the potential of computerbased minimalism with a handful of fantastic tracks; considered along with Borges' other recent work, the record makes him seem an even more compelling artist worth following closely.  "}