{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10123/homepage_large.601daba4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Shellac","title":"Excellent Italian Greyhound","text":"  You're not even really reading this. Why would you? I could rate this album a 12 divided by Q or say it's on par with seven hamandcheese Hot Pockets and it wouldn't matter. Anyone who cares has already marched to their nearest independent retailer and purchased Excellent Italian Greyhound, laughed aloud at the dog picture, shook the unmarked CD from the gatefold cover (because Steve Albini hates digital recordings and you), and spun the vinyl with warm, grating satisfaction. The reviews are irrelevant, and one from Pitchfork probably means even less to Shellac listeners than most. Shellac's audience is builtin and guaranteed in a way that, despite Touch & Go's perfectly respectable roster, no other active band on the label can claim; they're the last real band standing on the last real label standing. Steve Albini's notorious reputation may precede him, but Shellac have maintained their integrity by cutting out the promoters, the promos, the PR, the interviews, the hype, and the bullshit. Who cares about integrity any more, you ask? Just wait. One day you'll tell your kids who Albini and Ian MacKaye were and get blank stares in return. You'll watch your children grow up to become managers and \"indie\" PR shills for groups with at least two exclamation points in their bandnames while you shout about how \"back in my day, bands used to stand for something\" while slackjawed, iPodtoting orderlies push your wheelchair in a circle around the nurses' station at the oldfolks home. That Shellac continue to seek the shortest path between the music and the fans is a point worth repeating. Yet there's a point, I think, when the fans will wonder what they're getting beyond a pat on the back. Excellent Italian Greyhound is unique in being one of very few albums anticipated for seven years a punkrock eternity that still feels rushed. Albini and Bob Weston are both very busy engineers, and Shellac was never a fulltime gig for either of them, or drummer Todd Trainer, so no one within reason gets pissy over the wait between their records. Plus, the band's very occasional live shows (which have thankfully increased in number lately) are still essential life experiences. Of course, you could say the same for a band like Fugazi, whose last release, The Argument, came out way back in 2001: They pushed past boundaries and expectations until the very end before wisely resting on their laurels. Here, Shellac are simply digging in their heels, relishing their injokes, and doing what they do best and not much else.  All that said, EIG's first half is a holy affirmation, and maybe short of \"Prayer to God\" features the band's best opening track. \"The End of Radio\" is a minimalist threechord funeral march for (you guessed it) radio, as Albini assumes the character of the last DJ (and man) on earth, screaming dedications to a deserted planet. While the vocals aren't as foaming as they've been during live performances, the more desperate and pathetic tone fits this clever conceit. Albini errantly lets out nervous patter and thanks nonexistent sponsors before wailing, \"Can you hear me now???\" and letting loose with the crackling guitar lines we love Shellac for. \"Steady as She Goes\" is another live staple finally seeing release, exemplary of the thin, metallic chug they've patented, though it's without the tension or left turns of their earlier work.  The band saves the stretching out for side two. \"Lulabelle\" is undoubtedly the strangest and most difficult track to get through: Its heavy riffage is interrupted by a long segment of the Sinatralike crooning of some pretty unsettling lyrics, plus voiceovers from maybemovie announcers and Strongbad. The juxtaposition is hilarious and disturbing, and while you may never play it more than a few times, it's the most confrontational the band gets on this record, as well as closest in spirit to At Action Park or Albini's former projects. \"Boycott\" is a quickanddirty anticapitalist rant from Weston, and though the metronome tick of the instrumental \"Kittypants\" strikes me as filler, the other instrumental, \"Paco\", is a vicious highlight with atmosphere that's as sparse and evocative as an Ennio Morricone score. The odd interlude that introduces \"Spoke\" gives way to straightup punk rock with unintelligible screaming from both Weston and Albini. I can't help but feel like the joke's on the listener here, but it's hard not to smile at it. I bring up Fugazi because they're the only of Albini's likeminded contemporaries still (maybe) kicking, and because the Westonsung \"Elephant\" makes the curious choice of directly quoting them at the start (\"Here comes the argument\"), before proceeding with some slippery bass chords and militant rhythms that are pretty darn close to sounding like the flagship Dischord band. Elsewhere, the relentless hammerons and spatout non sequiturs of \"Be Prepared\" (\"I was born wearing pants!\") stop abruptly in midstream to start an oddly cheerful groove that sounds not unlike Thin Lizzy. It's a gleeful moment, but there was a time when Shellac barely acknowledged other bands, leaving a blazing trail of influence in their stubborn wake. Not only is Excellent Italian Greyhound Shellac's most offthecuff record; it's often an uncharacteristically indebted one.  For those of us scratching our heads and laughing at that album cover, anyone who's seen the band live knows that they're hysterical, and EIG, like 1000 Hurts before it, proves you can still provoke listeners without being uniformly dour. Even at their silliest, even when they're treading water, no one else sounds quite like Shellac, and anyone who professes to be a serious music fan without having spent quality time with the band's albums should be forced to familiarize themselves. This just wouldn't be the first record I'd force on them.  "}