{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10126/homepage_large.228a5931.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Get Him Eat Him","title":"Arms Down","text":" Beyond harping on the fact that the lead singer of Get Him Eat Him can be emailed directly through this website, a recurring thread in reviews for the band's 2005 debut, Geography Cones, was the album's myriad 90svintage indie rock influences. But what saves the Providencebred quintet from being a mere exercise in collegeradio nostalgia is that the sort of endearingly fidgety indie rock Get Him Eat Him deal in never really went out of fashion it just got its shit together and decided not let amateurism get in the way of ambition. Even in brief twominute bursts, Geography Cones displayed no lack of grandeur, combining the sensitive melodicism that was intrinsic to so much 90s bedroomrock with synthheavy, proggedout arrangements. On Arms Down, that nervous energy matures into confidence. The first words frontman Matt LeMay utters on opener \"2x2\" are, \"It's a familiar sound/ We're under attack,\" perhaps a knowing nod to its place in the canon of underachiever fight songs. But for Get Him Eat Him, resignation is best combated with celebration. The enemies \"beating [them] back\" are unidentified, but that's immaterial as \"2x2\" illustrates, the best part about going to war is getting to write your own cavalry song, and they've got guest trumpeter Zach Condon on hand to give it the coup de brass. Condon is but one of the special guests (the Wrens' Charles Bissell and occasional Broken Social Scene keyboardist Chris Brown among them) who lend Arms Down an expanse and emotional release that its predecessor sometimes lacked, whether because it had a more modest production budget or its oversaturated synth arrangements verged on schticky. Credit producer Jason Cadell (exDismemberment Plan) for encouraging the band's artpop fancies without buffing the jagged edges for all the horn charts and dense keyboard textures, you never lose the sense that these songs would sound just as good in a drunken, sweaty basement gig on campus. It's tempting to gauge the influence of LeMay's writing career on his music, but, what the hell, I'll give in: Arms Down's frontloaded sequence and tightly stuffed, multisectional song structures sound like the logical products of someone who's spent many a day sifting through stacks of unknown bands' CDs, plopping them on his stereo, and praying he won't be bored. To that end, Get Him Eat Him waste no time in seizing your attention: \"Diminutive\" manages to shift gears from urgent soul stomper to swooning, stringswept balladry with a remarkable ease worthy of Ted Leo; \"Push and Pull\" is a melancholic powerpop surge that, with the sudden intrusion of some piercing guitar tones, takes a sharp left turn out of the second verse and careens off the rails. Elsewhere, LeMay's GBV jones manifests itself in a pair of beauties: the gleaming, Under the Bushesstyle ballad \"The Coronation Show\" and ace Do the Collapseera rocker \"Leaders in Doubt\". But as so many indie pop bands have learned, it's an exuberance that's difficult to sustain for the full duration of an album, even one that clocks in under 40 minutes. In its closing stretch, Arms Down settles into a comfort zone of sorts: The unpredictability of the songs' constantly changing structures starts to feel predictable in itself, and the unwavering sensitivity of LeMay's voice has the effect of making postpunky janglepop turns like \"CBT\" and \"Get Down!\" sound more uniform than they actually are. If Get Him Eat Him eventually succumb to battle fatigue, the effectiveness of their opening strikes is proof enough that their efforts were not in vain. "}