{"label":" Waxing Deep","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10124/homepage_large.3b5da0ad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Si, Para Usted: The Funky Beats of Revolutionary Cuba, Volume One","text":"  Cuba was a late 20th Century anomaly: a repressive communist government that fostered a vibrant, influential, and essential musical output. Cuban sounds resonate and persist in music throughout Latin America, Africa (where some of the most popular styles have roots in the Cuban rhumba), Europe, and even, yes, the United States. Americans tend to think of Cuba as more isolated than it really is. You may not be able to fly there from our airports, but if you simply drive over the border to Toronto or Mexico City, no one will stop you. In the 1960s and 70s, Cuban music played just as big a role in the development of popular music styles in Central and West Africa as anything coming out of the U.S. or Europe. Still, Cuba's lone record label, Egrem, is the property of a government with no real conception of how to run a business (check their housing policies for proof), and that means recorded music is erratically available outside the island, when it's available at all. It's been up to labels like Nonesuch, Escondida, and Honest Jon's to go in search of it and make it available. Which is to say there's a lot we don't know about Cuban music and plenty of exploring to do. The guys at Waxing Deep, producers of a radio show and popular podcast, have taken note of the overwhelming response to the funky Cuban tracks they play in their sets and decided it was time to make some of this elusive music available to everyone, complete with wellresearched liners and a wealth of background information. The music they've gathered comes mostly from the 70s, with a bit of bleed into the 80s, and based on what I hear, I couldn't be happier about the implications of that \"Volume 1\" at the end of the title.  One important thing to note before we get to the details is that Castro's government, for all its innumerable flaws and broad terribleness, has generally been good to its musicians. They were granted artistic freedom so long as the music didn't get out of line politically, professional musicians were on the government payroll and so had no worries about making ends meet, and subsidies opened toptier music academies to anyone who was good enough and had the desire, eradicating established class barriers. Not a perfect system, but one that allowed for amazing variety and prolific creation.  If you're into Cuban music beyond Buena Vista, Arturo Sandoval and Celia Cruz, you'll likely recognize some of these names Jaun Formell y Los Van Van, Orquesta Riverside, Juan Pablo Torres, Irakere but you'll likely scratch your head at some others. This compilation digs deep to provide a nice mix of straightahead funk and psychedelic experimentation, with frequent hints of more traditional sound. They've also mostly chosen individual tracks that haven't made it outside of Cuba before.  Juan Pablo Torres and his band Algo Nuevo (\"Something New\") check in with three tracks, including disc opener \"Son a Propulsion\", which is well described in its title. It brings the traditional song form of the son, which predominated in the 30s, to bear on stabbing horns, wicked fuzz guitar, dubby effects and funk drums. It's just an appetizer for the track that follows it, though. Irakere's \"Bacalao con Pan\" is an astounding slab of grinding, psychedelic funk that tosses freakout guitars with bright horns and even a bit of salsa piano for a mix that justifiably became a massive Cuban hit.  There's an abundance of weird sounds on the compilation. Síntesis' \"Con la Luz de la Mañana\" is crazy, synthheavy fusion with stacked vocals and a definite European prog influence. Los Van Van's \"Y No le Conviene\" is colored by a strangely arranged string section, and Grupo de Experimentación Sonora del ICAIC's \"Sondeando\" is governmentsponsored free funk. The electric bass tone (chorus with light distortion) on Jorge Reyes' \"Pocito 11\" is unbelievably grotesque, and the bass is the lead instrument for much of the songclearly some very leftfield American and European fusion records were circulating in Cuba when this was made.  Even an old institutional orchestra, Orquesta Riverside, which thrived on Cuban radio since well before revolution was even a glimmer in Castro's eye, gets in on the action with a superfunky big band track that features great callandresponse vocals. I'm used to the group as a purveyor of something much more traditional (their early 78s are treasures), but damn it's fun to hear them getting up expressly to get down here.  The compilation ends with its biggest shock: the psychedelic, Easterntinged trip that is Mirtha Y Raul's \"Casina Y Epidecus\", which comes complete with an oud part and a spoken word passage that Timothy Leary would've died for. It's a surprising end to a necessary and vital compilation that exposes a world that never deserved to be hidden. These artists took promise of artistic freedom they were given to heart and created some wonderful and innovative syntheses. This is what every revolution should sound like.  "}