{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10121/homepage_large.62c8cdd6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Pissed Jeans","title":"Hope for Men","text":" Caveat emptor: I'm kind of obsessed with Pissed Jeans, this hardcore punk quartet from Allentown, Penn. It's the kind of obsession that bores your friends and alienates folks who casually ask, \"So, heard any good records lately?\" If those people do go on to check out the band, they tend to reply: \"It just sounded like a lot of noise with some dude moaning/yelling about scrapbooking and Whole Foods.\" And that's why it's great! Now signed to obscure boutique label Sub Pop and already on their second album, the brand new Hope For Men, Pissed Jeans' rock is sourced in the early80s loosebooty sludge of Flipper and Black Flag, the tightly wound treblespray of late80s/early90s noiserock such as Drunks With Guns and the Jesus Lizard, and a maxedout Paypal account's worth of hyperobscure hardcore nobodies who put out one awesome 7\" before permanently taking that job at Orange Julius. It's an ugly sound sometimes frenzied (the sawnoff boogie of closer \"My Bad\") and sometimes totally entropic (the gluehuffing feedbackdub bummer \"Scrapbooking\") that I can't get enough of. Unlike so much music in 2007, whether it's Justice or the Arcade Fire, Pissed Jeans doesn't want to inflate your sense of euphoria. They want to stub out enthusiasm like a cigarette on a forehead. Plenty of folks who grew up with hardcore have since moved onto its noisier or artier or lesstraditional cousins. (Or they've written it off entirely thanks to the Victory Records version where the multiple Tshirt designs are pretty cool and all the bands fucking suck.) Pissed Jeans singer Matt Korvette also runs the White Denim label, which has put out great, smartly packaged, and obtuse offerings by notreallyhardcore weirdos like Baltimore's tweaked circuitbenders Leprechaun Catering and English improvrock druids Aufgehoben. And when Pissed Jeans want to, they can certainly delight in noise for noise's sake. Just listen to Hope for Men opener \"People Person\": The buzzing that swarms throughout the song like a Bmovie's worth of giant locusts isn't even solid enough to pass for a riff. Those squeals and sobs are like rock music made by sadists who join a seal clubbing expedition because they like the sounds the seals make when clubbed. Hope for Men is generally a little slower and lower than Pissed Jeans' 2005 debut Shallow, like the threeminutes of drunken stumblebum riffs lurching back and forth on \"Fantasy World\" or badvibes whirlpool of \"Secret Admirer\". But \"bash first and ask questions later\" tracks like \"A Bad Wind\" and \"Caught Licking Leather\" are reminders of why your tense, agitated ass started listening to punk rock in the first place. After I wrote about \"I've Still Got You (Ice Cream)\", I was gently chided for treating the lyrics, in which Korvette seems to claim that no matter how bad things get he can still enjoy a frozen treat, in some sort of ironic \"LOL guy is writing a song about ice cream\" way. Not so! What makes Pissed Jeans' lyrics great is the realworld specificity of them. Dude gets bummed. Dude has ice cream. Dude feels better. Who among us can not relate? \"Scrapbooking\", which crawls for fiveminutes over broken piano keys and is sung like a version of Black Flag's \"Damaged 1\" written by a dude with a normalsized neck, appears to be about, you know, scrapbooking. On \"The Jogger\", a few minutes of sewer drip ambience, Korvette beefs about the kind of Whole Foodsshopping, Bally's Fitness Club membershiphaving, shirttuckedin douche who makes the rest of us feel vaguely bad about our record collecting and drinkinguntoblackout lifestyles. And really, whether or not Korvette is dead serious or taking the piss, he knows, like all great comedians, that it's at least 75% in the pained, sexually frustrated, stubbedtoe delivery. If you've just been fired or dumped and are currently contemplating either drinking an entire case of generic beer or setting an orphanage on fire, this is the album for you. When life got too heavy in 2006, and it often was, I listened to Shallow, laughed my ass off, and felt better. Hope for Men makes me laugh even harder. (And, you know, bang my head, kick over newspaper boxes, bare my teeth at small children, want to form a Halo of Flies cover band, stuff like that.) Listening, I was often reminded of Lester Bangs famously playing a suicidal friend Public Image Ltd.'s ambivalent death dirge \"Theme\" the track's another good sonic reference point for Pissed Jeans, come to think of it and asking if John Lydon groaning \"And I wish I could die\" over and over again was therapeutic in any way. The joke of the small indignities and crushing defeats is on all of us, and Hope for Men is currently one of the few records you should pull out both at your darkest moments and just the times when some jerkoff gets the last bagel at Dunkin' Donuts in the morning to remind yourself that no matter how many times you catch your dick in your zipper, metaphorically or literally, it's better to laugh along. That, and there's always ice cream. "}