{"label":" Kompakt Extra","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10127/homepage_large.bce28d29.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Speicher 3","text":" For a project that began as a big ol' umbrella for Cologne techno, Kompakt has never had much of a sonic thumbprint, as likely to toss out Justus Köhncke's cosmic disco as Jürgen Paape's beerhall diva house as Kaito's pianohappy neotrance. Even as far back as 2004, on the heels of the Kompakt 100 remix collection, Pitchfork techno guru Philip Sherburne pointed out in a The Wire magazine review that Kompakt's tenuous unity had already begun to crack into a confederacy of sublabels Kompakt Pop, Kompakt Extra, and later K2 all devoted to specialized tweaks on the sound of a label as catholic as any German techno imprint. Kompakt Extra was for the Speicher series, and the distinction made sense. The Speicher records were, at least in the arena of continental European posttechno, outandout bangers designed for maximum shirtsoff, popperfueled dancefloor humping. That wasn't something a DJ could always be sure of with a regular Kompakt release. Whatever the individual sound, Speicher releases always had a certain functional consistency a brand identity as it were.Speicher 3, the latest \"digital mix\" of recent Speicher singles by Kompakt's Michael Mayer and Jörg Burger, is proof that over the last few years either Kompakt's regular roster (many of which appear here anyway) has moved closer to the sound of Speicher or vice versa. Whereas Kompakt's early 00s mixes were often midtempo, melodic, and stuffed with quirky choices, there's far less difference between Speicher 3 and Michael Mayer's technofocused Immer 2 on plain' ol Kompakt. For sure Speicher 3 is still closer to something you'd hear on a Friday night than Tobias Thomas' recent, crepuscular come down mix Please Please Please. But now the rest of the clubbing world has caught up to Kompakt's version of minimal techno, or maybe it's Kompakt that's caught up to the rest of the clubbing world's version of minimal techno. A track like Superpitcher's \"Enzian\" retains the unearthly quality (those reverbslurred chimes, for instance) that spreads like mist in a Hammer horror flick through much of his work, but the paired electrohouse rhythm running underneath the briny mix means the dancefloor will stay full when the needle hits the groove. Typical for a Speicher collection, the mix is fairly uniform in terms of tempo and structure, and as usual with Kompakt in straightahead mode (and minimal techno in general), the trick to enjoying Speicher 3 is often about the ability to get lost in the each track's devilish details. Jurgen Paape's \"Fruity Loops #2\" is simultaneously the mix's most propulsive couple of minutesthat surging bassline splitting the difference between deep house and Detroit technoand its most lovingly finessed, kitted out with multiple layers of shivery synth pads, clanging piano chords, and Italo disco arpeggios. But hewing to the series' stated mission of body moving, most of Speicher 3's best tracks stick to the basic writ of hypnotizing dancers first and getting fussy with the sonics later, like Axel Bartsch stringing nothing but his percolating, compulsive handclaps across a bottomless pit of black lowend on \"Deal\". John Dahlback's \"Wet Summer\" squrims with pointillist synth blips and gurgles like a bucket full of robot grubs, but Misc's roidraging postacid house splurts and spizz over a jacking beat on \"Status Now\" revel in the restrictive pleasures of dance classicism.Speicher 3 will be comforting terra cognita for longtime Kompakt fans, and like all Kompakt mixes, it takes a little while to move into first gear, Mayer and Burger continually preferring a longview percussive tease to one hammering climax after another. The mix's actual climax, Motiivi:Tuntematon's \"Mankind Failed\", is almost an anticlimax, four minutes of charging drums that fizzle like a snuffed match only to flame up again into an atonal breakdown of gnarled, milehigh synthesizers and distorted digital feedback that's left to play out in all its 8:58 sturmunddrang intensity. It's the ugliest sound Kompakt has ever pressed to vinyl, sounding more like a selection from Kevin Drumm's Sheer Hellish Miasma, and an utterly perverse way to close out a dance mix, even a dark one. If any artist on Speicher 3 is one to watch, it's these three Finns, and even if it's not \"the point,\" the mix could have used a few more curveballs like \"Mankind Failed\". There's a point where brand consistency teeters on the edge of contemptible familiarity, after all. "}