{"label":" Rune Grammofon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10137/homepage_large.1a88c1b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Opsvik & Jennings","title":"Commuter Anthems","text":"  As with so many acts on the Rune Grammofon roster, the duo of Eivind Opsvik and Aaron Jennings construct their work directly on the faultlines that separate each musical genre from the next. Their instrumental tides incorporate stray elements of folk, jazz, and country with an impressively gentle touch, as the two musicians invisibly blend acoustic instruments with subtle software effects. With the aid of such evocative titles as \"The Last Country Village\" and \"Lorinda Sea\", the liminal music on Commuter Anthems has melancholic, faintly nostalgic tug, as though absorbed in the quiet conflict between the present and the idealized thoughts of a mythic, pastoral history. Opsvik & Jennings New Yorkers by way, respectively, of Oslo and Oklahoma might sound like a name better suited to a law firm or a chiropractic clinic, and at points on Commuter Anthems they can perhaps seem rather too businesslike in their approach. The two musicians have each been active in a variety of projects, largely grounded in jazz and experimental pop. On Commuter Anthems, their second album overall and their first on Rune Grammofon, the duo make a host of unlikely instrumental choices, joining melodic fragments of banjo and lap steel to jazz string bass and tranquil laptop figures. To their credit, Opsvik & Jennings take care throughout to deemphasize their composing and recording process, and they partner their individual styles so seamlessly that the album can often seem as a dreamwave transmitted directly from a single conjoined imagination. True to its title, Commuter Anthems is filled with exactly the sort of distant, halfremembered melodic fragments that one might envision while nodding off on the evening train. \"The Last Country Village\" builds up from a base of acoustic guitar and tuned percussion to warm swells of lap steel, patiently chasing a sleepy melody that remains just tantalizingly out of reach. Wordless bahdahdah vocals decorate \"Port Authority\" and the title track, further lending to their ethereal daydream character. On such jazzier tracks as the lengthy \"I'll Scrounge Along\", the duo can call to mind the languid rumble of early Tortoise, while Jennings' contributions on guitar and a variety of string instruments echo some of Bill Frisell's crossgenre explorations.  As the album progresses, Opsvik & Jennings allow themselves extra enough driving time for a couple fruitful side trips. On the hypnotic \"Ways\" the duo take a break from forward momentum altogether, settling into one of the album's richest melodies with banjo and theremin for an idyllic respite amidst the tempered commotion. Here, as on the lyric \"Lorinda Sea\", the additions of banjo, pedal steel, and/or trumpet cast a wistful, rural glow that sways and hovers like pollen on a lingering summer breeze, only to soon be scattered by a shuffled rhythm or electronic edit. Throughout the length of Commuter Anthems, one can hardly help but wish that Opsvik & Jennings had chosen to push these songs a little further, and take their melodies grander, or allowed their stylistic leaps to retain more of their natural dissonance. Lovely though the album is, the duo appear content to treat their Anthems with an air of light detachment, almost as if too much extra attention or creative interference might cause these fragile creations to vanish off into the twilight as suddenly as they've arrived.  "}