{"label":" Offshore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10134/homepage_large.f676d74d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Buried Treasure","text":" Modernday jungle is an iffy bet to recommend to anyone not already seduced. Even more than other potentially forbidding 2007 dance music subgenres like minimal techno paired down to its ultraserious essentials but at least always mutating along some new and/or interesting axis jungle long ago stopped moving for anyone not already down with the program. Offshore releases, then, are excellent points of entry not only because they're more inventive than most 21st century drum'n'bass (technotinged percussion that splits the difference between groove and experimentalism) but because they're friendly (which in this case just as often means they're pretty rather than catchy). They're a fresh take on the genre that also remembers you once listened to jungle to hear otherworldly sounds as well as rhythms that rewrote your working definition of \"funk\" with each new 12inch. The first official Offshore CD release since 2004's Troubled Waters mix CD, the 10 rarities and exclusives collected on Buried Treasure are an obvious way \"in.\" Still, there are a few things you need to enjoy before bothering to venture into the modernday jungle. A love of rapidfire, jittery syncopations is key to enjoying a track like Graphic's \"Stop Motion\" which, true to its name, is speedier than any techno track you're currently enjoying and stops and starts like a city bus. Looped grooves and the layered interplay between different loops should sound appealing, too; \"Stop Motion\" is all about the dizzying ways Graphic trades off between a handful crunchy, choppy drum breaks, weaving in a smear of grumbling bass, the ping of an elevator reaching its floor, and a wobbly organ motif. But mostly you've got to love drums. Whether it's the way Graphic and Slide push the frantic kicks and snares of \"Crash Kit\" through various EQ settings until they clonk like metal or clink like glass or how Fanu drives his very naturalisticsounding blaxsploitation beats into a Cerberussnarling hell ride on \"Defunct Drums' Depression Decade VIP,\" if tightened and twisted drum breaks for their own sake don't immediately get your nose open, Buried Treasure might take a couple spins to immerse yourself in. But one track that will spin everyone's head around on the first play is Sileni's VIP remix of his own \"Twitchy Droid Leg\", easily the most rhythmically complex four minutes you'll hear in 2007. (\"Finally,\" a friend said after hearing it for the first time, \"your love of mathrock and your love of drum'n'bass are joined.\") The original was the highlight of Troubled Waters, a twostepping, timbrallyfucked robot rocker that kathunked and whirred like southern hiphop gone horribly wrong. Here, as lunar, belllike synth tones (shades of early Aphex Twin) slur a melody in the background, Sileni seems to craft funky beats more like he's Matmos recording liposuction and other distressing bodily noises. Even though closelisteners can follow a syncopated pattern throughout \"Twitchy Droid Leg VIP\", it hits you as a riot of squishy squelches and groaning gurgles and Jabba the Hutt slurps. As the track progresses, spasming jazz drums try to kick their way out of the mucousencrusted sonorities of Sileni's \"motherfucking robotic bounce tweaker beats.\" For a genre that's so often stiff to the point of rigor mortis, Chris Leamy makes organic drum'n'bass that's more \"internal organs\" than standup bass and totally original. Why isn't this guy, like, hugely famous already? Somebody get The Wire magazine on the phoneor Wired, for that matter. "}