{"label":" Big Dada","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1025/homepage_large.84a05f3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Busdriver","title":"Cosmic Cleavage","text":" As an emotional defense, density beats machismo handsdown. Nobody can see your weak spots if you move too fast and deluge them with so much verbiage that the Freudian slips and incidental confessions are hidden by the onslaught. Busdriver talks about the trials of L.A. life, divorced parents and bad breakups, but he slides on without a pause; the listener's too busy with the form to feel the content. He changes the subject before you can even give him a simple, \"That's a bummer, dude.\" Listening to a Busdriver album is like getting rhymes out of a fire hydrant. That's not a criticism: His hyperactive flow and hyperarticulate assertions are pure pleasure, and so is his delivery, where he's made leaps in technique since his earliest CDRs. He stomps and sputters in (mostly self)frustration, and his stentorian voice lurches in tempo and pitch; one minute he gulps his lines like a fish, the next, he spits out lyrics like nails. Humor and vivid disgust weave together in his lyrics, which are convoluted and clichefree: \"Falling in love in L.A./ Is like being pricked with a manicured thorn/ Innocent girls who look like they used to star in amateur porn/ One financial disaster, an exotic dancer is born.\" And the intensity comes and goes. His rant at his ex on \"SheHulk Dehorning the Illusionist\" is hilarious (\"Somehow I've weaved the myth of a decent person around your good looks\"), and becomes worldclass caustic even before he hits the kissoff: \"You have a playful fetish of having your anal crevice rammed in by a fourdoor sedan full of football players.\" Producer Daddy Kev sticks to jazz breaks, from swing to stride to cool to modern, with drumming that propels Busdriver's stumbling tempos, and raunchy horns that mimic the swing of his third leg. Though the dustier breaks bring up unwelcome echoes of \"Lucas With the Lid Off\", Kev rarely leans on his sources for nostalgic ear candy. Dig the way he turns the upright bass into a throbbing, almost electronic pulse on \"Beauty Supply and Demand\", or the way he fits the burlesque of the title track to the gutterprobing lyrics. With no breaks or gasps for air between the tracks, Cosmic Cleavage is Busdriver's tightest, most consistent album. But it might not be the best starting place for new listeners. It's not as obviously clever (or corny) as his collaboration with Radioinactive and Daedelus, The Weather, and it's harder to penetrate than his fulllength debut, Temporary Forever. One of the most effective tracks on that record was a tape recording of Busdriver freestyling at the order booth of a fast food drivethru. From the passenger seat, we got to hear Busdriver take a breath before he went back to be the life of the party again. Without rests like that, Cosmic Cleavage has the whirlwind \"watch what I can do\" pace of an EP, and as it reaches the final track, the density threatens to make it collapse on itself: The thudding, slow bass guitar and jabbing keyboards melt into a hot mass, and Busdriver drops out altogether. Like that scene at the end of The Black Hole, we're trapped by the gravitational pull what'll we find on the other side? The meaning of life? The answer to our voyage? God? but when we break through to the end, all we get is a titty joke sampled from an old Seinfeld episode. Busdriver, you got away from us again. "}