{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10149/homepage_large.5a80c823.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"They Shoot Horses Don't They?","title":"Pick Up Sticks","text":"  They Shoot Horses Don't They make what could best be described as headache music. It certainly gives me one. It's a shame that other horse band got to the title Everything All the Time before TSHDT could, because it'd be a perfect title for them. The nine members of the band are all almost constantly engaged, blaring away with horns, drums, basses, guitars, and yelping, hyperactive vocals. Both times I listened to it on headphones, I had to keep turning it down to help my ears out and allow myself to think. No doubt this Vancouver collective has a unique sound their allout large band assault has a lurching, dissonant quality that accentuates its busyness and density. The vocals sometimes remind me of Head of Femur, but that band's sense of contour and melody isn't in effect here. Rather, these arrangements have a remarkably flat sense of dynamics for all their diversity. The horns, somewhat reminiscent of King Crimson circa Lizard, are used primarily to deepen the texture, and as such play often with little melodic material to latch onto. Some of the fault for the album's crowded feel lies with the production, which provides no separation between the sounds in the mix. On closer \"Wrong Directions\", for instance, short horn phrases back short vocal phrases while the drums do everything in their power to avoid propelling the song, but all those sounds, and a few others to boot, are rubbing right up next to each other. If the vocal melody were to be memorable at all, any hook it might provide is dashed by interference from the horns. The song has distinct chorus and verse sections, but they're rendered indistinguishable by the cacophonic arrangement and recording technique.  That's not to say many of the vocal melodies are especially memorable on their own terms. They tend to consist of clipped phrases contorted to fit the lyrics and fit in with the drum patterns. The lack of driving rhythm means the songs never gain any kind of momentum, and as a result never feel like they're going anywhere. \"The Guest\" starts out dense and just gets denser as the band fakes a buildup by piling on more keyboards and processed vocals, and the rhythm section just thrashes away in place, failing to carry all that noise to a destination. \"A Place Called LA\" actually kicks off with a hook, as a lone organ plays a little twochord riff, and the drums play along with a galloping beat this alone makes it an easy standout, but the vocals are so unmelodic that a lot of the interest generated in those early moments dissipates.  Little else separates itself, but there are a few songs that provide interesting moments. \"What Is That?\" is much sparser and quieter than the rest of the record, and though it's melodically engaging, it's a muchneeded respite late in the album. \"Speck of Dust\" is also less dense at first, but when the band ramps up two and a half minutes in, it feels less like payoff and more like an intrusion. TSHDT have many ingredients for interesting music, but as on their other two albums, those ingredients as currently employed don't add up to anything very palatable. "}