{"label":" Koch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10168/homepage_large.2eb8fbc7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"DJ Khaled","title":"We the Best","text":"  Miami's DJ Khaled doesn't really do much. He doesn't rap. He doesn't sing. He doesn't cut or scratch. He does produce tracks under his Beat Novocain alias, but not that often; he's responsible for only two of the tracks on We the Best, his sophomore album. Mostly, he just incessantly screams dumb catchphrases, and he doesn't even do that particularly well; one of the reasons that Lil Wayne and Khaled's Da Drought 3 is the best mixtape in years is Lil Wayne's decision to leak it to the internet before Khaled had a chance to yell all over it. Still, for someone so markedly devoid of talent, Khaled managed to throw together a surprisingly decent debut album last year. Listennn...The Album was a stateoftheart rap compilation. Khaled apparently has ins with half of rap's biggest stars, and his disc probably could've coasted by on starpower alone. But he also employed most of Florida's better production teams, including Cool & Dre and the Runners. And since these guys all work from the same basic sonic templates, Listennn was satisfyingly cohesive for a throwntogether mixtape of its kind, and it made a strong case for the epically plastic Miami synthrap sound that was ascendant at the time.We the Best plainly attempts to follow up on the formula established by Listennn. First single \"We Takin' Over\" is every bit the equal of its Listennn predecessor, the worldbeating posse cut \"Holla At Me\". The new single wrangles an allstar lineup, boasting an ebulliently overblown Akon chorus and sandwiching a few justOK verses from Rick Ross and Fat Joe and Birdman between two bravura starturns. T.I. starts things off with brisk efficiency, and Lil Wayne masterfully caps the song off with deranged verve. The track builds beautifully to Wayne's climactic verse, and his performance would've been starmaking if he weren't already a star: \"I am the beast/ Feed me rappers or feed me beats...\" If only the rest of We the Best held up to that song's enormous promise. Instead, we get a rapidly diminishing series of rote posse cuts, every guest claiming to be harder and richer than everyone else. When these sorts of swaggering egocentric bragraps are done with the exhilarated glee of \"We Takin' Over\", they can be great, even transcendent. But when they're throwntogether and halfassed, as most of the tracks here are, they quickly become oppressively dull. \"Brown Paper Bag\" thinks it's a drugdealing epic, but its tinny tubafart synths and wailing Bee Gees interpolation feel like overkill, and even Lil Wayne sounds bored and unmotivated. \"I'm So Hood\" wastes a monstrous Runners sandworm synthwriggle and an awesomely overblown TPain chorus on a bunch of thoroughly anonymous rap verses. \"Hit Them Up\" is a standardissue Paul Wall fillertrack two years after that might mean something. \"New York\" recruits the same lineup as the great 2004 Ja Rule single of the same name and fails to capture a single iota of that song's urgency and electricity. The mindnumbing sixminute Bone ThugsNHarmony showcase \"The Originators\" somehow manages to make those great Cleveland singrappers sound flat and boring. And when Rick Ross shows up on the first four songs on your album, you're in trouble.  The big problem with We the Best is its inert repetition; things get old fast when virtually every guest posits himself as an indestructible ghetto superhero. And so the album's few non\"We Takin' Over\" highlights come in those rare moments when the guestrappers allow themselves to become human beings. On \"Before the Solution,\" Beanie Sigel bitterly vents frustration about his jail term, sounding powerfully angry and flawed in the process: \"What up with State Prop, the crew, are they not there?/ The moment that they heard it, the verdict, when it was declared/ Your boy had the city, yeah/ Did they disappear?/ Did Jay really not visit there?\" And \"I'm From the Ghetto\" has a nicely sentimental lilt, with a chorus of kids singing inspirational nonsense and fond but conflicted childhood reminisces from the Game and Jadakiss and Trick Daddy. And so We the Best, it turns out, is indicative of one of the major problems with mainstream rap lately: too many rappers seem unwilling to drop their defenses and speak plainly. In any case, it was probably too much to expect two consistently listenable albums from motherfucking DJ Khaled; we're lucky we even got one.  "}