{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10177/homepage_large.e85e9091.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Minus Story","title":"My Ion Truss","text":"  It's a ritual that sometimes seems nearly as old as the recording process itself. A young band, after releasing several homespun selfrecorded albums, finally enters the studio with a bona fide producer and the seemingly contradictory intent to capture a more faithful reproduction of their live sound. Such is the familiar course taken by Minus Story on My Ion Truss, the Midwestern group's third fulllength release on Jagjaguwar and their fifth overall. With the assistance of veteran producer John Congleton, who has also done the honors for Explosions in the Sky and the Polyphonic Spree, Minus Story have here crafted what is surely their most vibrant and fullbodied rock album to date, although often at the expense of the ramshackle charm of their earlier work. On 2004's The Captain Is Dead, Let the Drum Corpse Dance, Minus Story displayed lofi psychedelic tendencies expansive enough to nearly merit unofficial entry into the Elephant 6 squadron. And though My Ion Truss still allows the occasional crazed sax solo or fleeting glimpse of distorted flute, the past few years have seen the group's sound grow considerably more streamlined and ampedup, increasing their resemblance to the rangy, guitarcentered likes of Built to Spill or Modest Mouse. This gradual evolution here comes to fruition in some of the group's most robust material yet, but it appears to make some unfair demands of vocalist Jordan Geiger whose earnest, reedy pipes can sound incongruous and faintly overwhelmed as things get progressively noisier behind him. Although Minus Story did include a wry cover of the Misfits' \"Hybrid Moments\" on their 2005 Heaven and Hell EP, there is little in their past catalog that directly foreshadows such raucous new tracks as \"Aaron\" or the harddriving \"Beast at My Side\". With Congleton's steady hand at the controls, the group was able to record many of the basic tracks for the album live, and these rowdier cuts deliver a surprising and satisfying punch. The anthemic \"Stitch Me Up\" benefits hugely its wideopen live drum sound, as do \"Battle of Our Lives\" and \"Pretty in the Light\" which each use the band's quirky, fitful song structures to amplify the lyrics' own oblique interior dramas. Likewise, on \"The Way Beyond\" the group expertly weaves a rhythm of handclaps and drum machines beneath their vocal harmonies and piano for what seems like a polished, more sophisticated advancement of their early psychpop pluralism.  The skies soon grow quieter as My Ion Truss progresses, however, and the album's second half is weighted heavily with introspective, crooning pop. This trend plays better to Geiger's strengths, as he sounds right at home on the clean, pianodriven \"Parachute\" and the keening \"Mama Mama\", although it can be rather disquieting to hear his boyish voice pleading out to \"mama\" on the latter, sounding like a traumatized teen sent home sick from school. The imbalance between the album's softer and more harddriving material makes for an interesting dynamic, but one can't help but miss some of the whimsy and scrappy invention of Minus Story's early work. Even so, the group appear so firmly in control of their performances here that there can be little question that this is the sound they've been striving for all along, and that it only took a little help from an outside producer like Congleton to help coax them into their more natural state.  "}