{"label":" P&C / Earworm","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10171/homepage_large.b8162236.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"The Flowers of Hell","title":"The Flowers of Hell","text":"  In listening to The Flowers of Hell, the debut LP from the highly touted London octet of the same name, the obvious criticism is the band's lack of tension and release. Indeed, for a band so indebted to Spacemen 3/Spiritualized glory (Sonic Boom produced pieces of the album and plays guitar on one track), a remarkable chunk of the record is spent watching pretty textures billow and breathe, letting them work more toward a background ambiance than a narrative thrust. But the Flowers of Hell actually pair a perfect amount of release to their tension: they're less like a rubber band, stretched and waiting to be cut or shot, and more like a piece of thick string, pulled for a bit until the only thing left to do is put it down and move along. \"Sympathy for Vengeance\", for instance, marches triumphantly for three minutes before slowly settling into a halcyon downslope, interrupted three minutes later by an attempt at a BIG ROCK CLIMAX! The idea is there, but the music itself plays out like an art student trying to pass off an oil painting as a basrelief sculpture, with drums that are too staid, guitars that aren't trying to beat themselves, and sounds too timid to saturate. Or there's \"Foreign Lands\", a stock psychedelic drone for viola, reversed longtones, Indian percussion, and the sort of twisting, slow, midrange riffs that have become a signifier for \"out rock.\" If it were capable of offering suspense or relief, its tonal banality would be forgivable. But, like much of the album (N.B. \"Through the F Hole\" and \"A Moment in Time\"), it's not. The Flowers' chief referent was capable of using expected sounds for unexpected drama: At their best, Spiritualized had the capacity to build \"pretty\" alongside \"ugly\" and let the results battle it out in front of a microphone. It's not that the Flowers of Hell don't have the muscle or smarts to match the climb and collapse that made their predecessors captivating. They do: On \"Compound Fractures\", the band briefly comes together in a moment of cathartic cacophony. They pit a singing saw against a deep, dark piano, martial tom rolls, and a menacing viola, deftly letting their brood glow with a sinister pallor. During \"Opt Out\", paired passages juxtapose a weeping refrain from that same viola with the justabouttotriumph coruscation of a cornet, setting the scene for theatrics that are never realized across the track's dawdling 14 minutes. Even when the Flowers mount momentum that they later crumble, the best you get are slightly louder, faster drums and a few more piggybacked textures. They're never able to commit or, properly, overcommit to flexing inside of their ideas. It feels more like living life as a moviegoer and less like a zealot (Spiritualized), superhero (Mogwai) or rebel (Godspeed You! Black Emperor).  But maybe that's how this band wants it, to let subtlety reign in understated anthems that gather the reflected light (if not spirit) of Brian Eno's rock records, the Velvet Underground's trappedinsideachord swirls, and space rock's ecclesiastical reign. Graceful closer \"Telescopic Suite\" nails that feeling. It's just that if you're coming to the Flowers of Hell looking for anything more than slightly dynamic background music in the hands of composers and players ostensibly capable of giving it to you, you're going to be let down. Wait, that's not right: You'll never actually be picked up.  "}