{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10173/homepage_large.e65a8c83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Drawing Voices","title":"Drawing Voices","text":"  Drawing Voices is a collaboration between metaA/V artist Craig Dongoski and Aaron Turner from Isis. To say more than this at the outset is to say too much, because there are two distinct ways to engage with this album, and the encounter is richer if one experiences both. Readers who wish to do so are advised to familiarize themselves with the music before reading this review. Go ahead, we'll wait. Everyone back? Okay. With no knowledge of its conceptual underpinnings, Drawing Voices is a decent dronebased record. Nothing on it would surprise anyone who has a couple Growing, Excepter, or Sightings albums in their collection: Wispy modulating waveforms, crystal beds of rhythm, and Turner's processed guitar noodlings featured most prominently on the sinuous \"The Shrine of Wreckless Illumination\" play out in long, palsied arcs. \"Being Born Broken\" consists of little more than a pixilated drone and the overdriven noises that sporadically attack it, while \"Scattered Shavings\" pits batty squeaks against choral vacuumcleanerish roars. The chattering, richly textured \"Being Born Broken II\" is a lot like Maja Ratjke's voice manipulation experiments, and \"A Choir Speaks\" is a soundeffect corrosion bath, not dissimilar to Svarte Greiner's indirectly representational compositions. While Drawing Voices is not entirely satisfying qua drone, there's something naggingly compelling about it. Its rudimentary palette and its peculiar habit of abrupt, volumejacked punchins one moment, you're hearing a regressive hum, the very next, all your EQ levels are in the red allude to some sort of hidden guide rail or internalized policy. And so it is: Drawing Voices turns out to be heavily processbased; listening conceptually is the second (and preferred) way to approach it.  Dongoski's process involves recording the sounds of \"markmaking\" (the aural environment produced by the act of drawing) and manipulating the results into compositional foundations. In doing so, he mines the rich technoorganic seam between the intimately human act of drawing and the stoic precision of mechanical intervention, and articulates one of the many shadow narratives latent in illustration, effectively translating discrete visual units into their inextricable but wildly capricious sonic analogues. Knowing that Dongoski's sounds are the emulsion of a traditionally visual act brings the album to life.  To an extent, processbased art confounds popular criticism. This is especially true of processes like Dongoski's, which exploit areas of slippage between two distinct acts, bringing forces both aleatoric and conceptually predetermined into play. The spontaneous and unconstrained creative act proceeds by a series of decisions, providing numerous opportunities to \"go wrong\" (armorchinks for critical arrows) along the way; processbased creation begins with one major conceptual decision and then plays out according to the terms of its particular game.  As such, the finished product of such a process takes on a secondary importance to the unquantifiable relationships between the product, its mode of production, and the conceptual leap that spawned it. In such a case, whether or not we (or the artist, for that matter) like or dislike the finished product becomes almost moot: It is, quite literally, what it is, and must be contended with on that level. Of course, none of this will interest listeners who engage with music strictly on the level of sound this album is not for them. But those attuned to the drastically particular mindset of processbased creation, with its minimization of the creative will and Russiandollcaliber relational depth, will find Dognoski's curious alchemy worthwhile.  "}