{"label":" self-released / OxBlood","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10181/homepage_large.1e6f3f40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liz Colville","artist":"American Catastrophe","title":"Excerpts from the Broken Bone Choir","text":"  Search this band's name on Google and you'll find references to just the kind of cataclysms the songs evoke. These six tracks, remastered and reissued by OxBlood in the band's native Kansas City, Mo., create a fuller picture of a band than many longer albums; at 33 minutes this is an EP bursting at the seams with hefty pieces that boast, indulge, and haunt. At surface level the references are clear: leader Shaun Hamontree is a Tom Waits fanatic, and everywhere are uptotheminute contemporary draws a Tarantino scene change, a Neko Case bridge, a Low vocal that serve as modern touches to gothic artifacts. This can lead us to several neighboring places. For one, the vertiginous funereal comedown of \"The Farm\", which manages to be both the warmest and most alienating of the tracks. At nearly eight minutes it alternately drones on and picks us up, like an unpredictable wind, the mournful vocals switching dominance with a more energetic percussion section, both of which Hamontree conducts with his central and overpowering role at the microphone. So early in the album this song could prophesy a leaden second half, but as it turns out, the band prefer to intersperse tempo ranges, alternating slow, heavily reverbed guitar tracks with the faster, stormier pieces dominated by drums. The musical cues evoked when the four members come together are far more interesting: It's a tumultuous yet controlled breed of rock that appears to communicate deeper than some of the rangy dustbowl guitar solos and explosively sad choruses elsewhere. \"Wither\" is the best example of this, though melodically it's more familiar, with twinkling, ominous arpeggios skittering around thick resolutions in bass and guitar at the chorus. The references in \"Wither\" are as much to sophisticated metal as to country and blues.  The bowout, \"Tension\", has a scintillating beauty that will remind listeners of Explosions in the Sky, whose fascination with simple repetitive guitar lines performed in peaceably empty outer space is transformed here, branded with American Catastrophe's smokefilled noisemaking. A delicate few notes on the electric guitar build up through their own monotony, leading to the inevitable crash and burn of cymbals and bass in the final seconds. As a teaser to what this band is currently working on (these songs were first recorded in 2005), Excerpts is confusingly colorful, painted in various shades of gray and blood red. "}