{"label":" Orchard / Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10198/homepage_large.b4b99025.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Maserati","title":"Inventions for the New Season","text":"  Last week's Beastie Boys release The MixUp didn't have much going for it, but it was funny. Mike D remaining a worthless drummer after a quarter century of being a worthless drummer was funny, and so was the \"Paradise City\" whistle on \"14th St. Break\". The concept was maybe even the funniest part: semidormant worldfamous rap group releases weekend jam session and earns itself another four or five years off. No sweat, right? Can were funny. So were Out Hud. The Fucking Champs are still funny. Yngwie Malmsteen isn't, or not intentionally, anyway. Neither is Joe Satriani. A certain kind of white and underbitten sincerity was and is the death of that Guitar World crowd, a kind of hermetic obliviousness that just assumes people will bow down before a record because it's called The Beautiful Guitar or Surfing with the Alien. Maserati have jokes too, sort of. Newly recruited drummer Gerhardt Fuchs of !!!, Turing Machine, and the Juan MacLean has a disgusting mustache, anyway, and he once got !!! bandmate John Pugh to describe him as \"a robot built by cavemen\" in a Village Voice feature. Maserati is also a fantasy joke title for an all instrumental postrock quartet, evoking as it does sanitized speed and that kind of nerdguitar action verb (Flying in a Blue Dream, Rising Force, Marching Out) so beloved by the shredder set. But it is with a sick sense of recognition that a listener realizes that the thing that does in fact come to mind when listening to Inventions of the New Season, again and again, is the unwishedfor sight of a Maserati doing 95 around a corner or headed to the beach, taking the turns like a champ. Progress on Maserati's new record is signified by things getting louder: an uphill climb that starts with idling guitars and ends at speed. For texture, imagine an instrumental U2 \"Kalinichta\" is what would happen if \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" never made it past four bars. Delayed guitar lines weave in and out; bass and drums kick in, then push ahead. There is no counterpoint or contrast in uptempo tracks like \"Inventions\", \"Synchronicity IV\", or \"Show Me the Season\" just a forward lurch. Even the shoegazey \"Kalimera\" leans on the volume knob for its arc. With all the upward motion, Maserati dodges the postrock quandary of buildandrelease by skipping the release. But isn't that the really necessary part?  In Jeff Hobbs's recent novel The Tourists he writes about a kind of kinetic sculpture, \"a single wing suspended in a glass vacuum,\" the effect of which is to \"isolate one of the most beautiful and magical of worldly phenomena motion and strip away the beauty and the magic until there's nothing left but form black and smooth and shapeless.\" Hobbs means to suggest an inability to connect, a kind of problematic drive towards sterility and control. These are also the obsessions embodied by Inventions for the New Season: all instruments rushing forward, Maserati streamlining their momentum until it's the only thing left to hear. "}