{"label":" O'Brothers","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10196/homepage_large.673a96f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"The Safes","title":"Well Well Well","text":" How hard can it be to make listenable power pop? It seems like it's pretty difficult to screw up. Sure, you can mutate the blueprint slightly maybe get a geeky, adenoidal romantic to front your band like the Modern Lovers or have a distinct sense of underlying melancholy like Badfinger but just so long as you can find that happy medium between the British Invasion and new wave, you'll be just about set. The hooks pretty much write themselves, penning clever lyrics takes a backseat to singing them with a loveablerogue bravado, and there's just enough rhythmic, riffsustained momentum in twoandahalf minutes to keep the song stuck to listeners' forebrains for about three times that long. But most dedicated music fans tend to gravitate towards evolutionary steps forward rather than artisanquality traditional formula, which leads to the inevitable question: Is there something worthwhile in a band that's good at doing something really simple and exceedingly familiar? That being asked, here are the Safes: They do nothing you haven't heard before, and they do it better than most. The outfit from Chicago centered around brothers/multiinstrumentalists/vocalists Frankie, Michael, and Patrick O'Malley have operated as a modernized power pop throwback for most of this decade, assuming that anyone who operates in a genre that's consistently existed from the Raspberries to Greg Kihn to Fountains of Wayne can be feasibly deemed a \"throwback.\" Well Well Well fits that continuum neatly, rarely pushing the envelope much further than the conceits that Cheap Trick are godhead and the preVillage Green Preservation Society Kinks could've used a few more volts in 'em. It's a plan they pull off well, even if they lack some of the things that make their peers singular. There's not much of the New Pornographers' unpredictable artiness or the Exploding Hearts' speakerrupturing hyperactivity in their repertoire think more along the lines of the Nerves and the Quick and other abruptlynamed, fleetinglyextant late 70s merchants of simplebutmesmerizing pop. Most of the record's pull is in the vocals, a closeharmonizing blur of nasal sneers and surly misery that says more about the upsandmostlydowns of distrust and romantic frustration than the words do. Not that the lyrics are always an afterthought there are some evocatively bitter phrases running through the titular choruses of \"Since Trust Went Bust\" and \"Bliss This Instance\" but they're usually so bluntly straightforward (\"Only in Your Mind\" actually opens with the phrase \"Now no matter what I do/ You think I am in love with you\") and halfburied in the mix that the only thing that really comes across distinctively in the voices is their perfect tone of contempt. There are probably worse things to muddy up the vocals than the Safes' instrumentation, though, which answers the whatif of the Raconteurs as a Jack Whiteless power trio. Even if most of their reference points predate the Reagan administration, there's a decent variety of styles: \"Phone Book Full of Phonies\" takes glamstomp's boogie and strips out all the excess weight to make it run faster, \"Deception\" condenses the limber debauchery of early 70s Rolling Stones into 1:47, and \"Bliss This Instance\" takes the aforementioned Kinkscirca'66 vibe to a raucous, hornfilled conclusion. It's all done with a workmanlike rockvet professionalism, and while it's somewhat unremarkable in itself, the Safes do pull off an interesting feat: creating an album that's unsurprising without actually being boring. "}