{"label":" Magic Marker","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10193/homepage_large.fe98639e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liz Colville","artist":"BOAT","title":"Let's Drag Our Feet","text":"  Boys with perpetual colds who can kindasorta sing, hand claps of the generic indie variety, and the unfettered production made most odious/ingenious by Wolf Parade are three features of BOAT's second album on Magic Marker. This lengthy collection of fuzzy, crackling lofi jams does little more than their debut to convince us of the band's merit, but I mean that as a compliment. Their viscous sound, with each instrumental part given equally muffled or tinny weight, at times yields some heavy little rock lullabies. The makeshift, adlib familiarity of the songs are, as is often the case with this genre, what makes them accessible and enjoyable; for the melodies to dig to a more sophisticated depth is an added bonus; and for them to avoid the anemic desperation of Spencer Krug is all right, too. As members of Seattle's prolific rock scene, BOAT differentiate themselves most explicitly with songs like \"The Ferocious Sounds of Lobsters and Snakes/Mom, Dad, Me and You\", the first part of which has been floating around the Internet for a couple of years. Here, it takes on a rerecorded cleanliness, the tempo slowed just slightly and the guitar itching for a more substantial role than the easy twonote plucks in the chorus. The lyrics here, as elsewhere on the album, are comfortingly cliché: \"Don't you know, everything will be all right/ Don't you know, everything will be just fine.\" The song is dead simple and inexplicably addictive. Such conciliatory ruminations appear in many tracks, but are often unintelligible thanks to the band's penchant for basements. But when the words want to reach us, they really do, albeit as adorably stupid adages: \"All I want's a telephone that rings for free,\" \"There's a lightbulb in your head/ If you break it you'll be dead,\" or a helpful suggestion about not being able to fall asleep if one drinks too many sodas. The lyrics are often roleplaying in nature, particularly suggestive of an adult borrowing the voice of his parents to speak to his childhood self. Less enjoyable are the \"ooh\"s and handclaps of \"Illustrate the History (When I Grow Up)\", a sound too many times tried and sold, and which here says nothing new. More interesting is what follows, \"The Whistle Test\", which howls a little higher, a bit like Man Man's meowing habit, then slows to a trot for a closely recorded chorus with long keyboard notes that enhance the longing mood. Both the song's colorations, which alternate several times, are sophisticated, the faster portion letting the drums take the spotlight with a quick, complicated rhythm that settles down for the pleasantly dreary chorus.  The cheap production of these songs still allows for invention and different shades from the same instrumentation: the wall of noise of the synths in \"Period, Backlash, Colon\", the pretty vocals on \"A Phone that Rings for Free\", or the effects on the lovely closing minutes of \"Gold Veins (This One Hotel)\". Often what collects the drunken mess of the songs into an elegant pile, as in the case of \"Veins\", is D. Crane's vocals, which have the dexterity to volubly pack themselves in or stretch out over the course of the instruments' finicky tempos. But there are only a handful of songs that really delve immediately into our mind's ear and stay there, the rest still benefiting from their intrasong variety and general subversion to predictable structure. Showmates of the Shaky Hands, BOAT offer fewer hits but more keepsakes, with many of their songs becoming more adhesive as they simmer and soften over time. "}