{"label":" Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10202/homepage_large.eaf0be89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Frank Black","title":"93-03","text":"  For a guy whose individual records can be so willfully fragmented, Frank Black's solo career has run in a straight line. In the beginning, he sounded like someone who'd just broken up Pixies, and his first two solo albums Teenager of the Year, in particular are nearly on par with his work in the band. Then, Black settled into a sort of quirky classic rock phase with the Catholics, and has now spent the last several years in reflection, revisiting the Pixies with a reunion of the band itself and with his own solo reexamination of songs he made with the band on the twodisc set Frank Black Francis. These past few years, which also saw Black trying his hand at the singersongwriter game in Memphis, aren't accounted for on 9303, which covers the first nine albums of his solo career (plus a bonus live disc recorded last year that touches on some recent material). While the Pixies have been anthologized nearly to death, there's never been a solo Black survey before this, and it seems like a good time to take a peek back at the years between his times with the Pixies, because the straight line he's drawn so far feels like it has to branch off in a new direction from here. The 22 studio tracks gathered on 9303 (there's one new one from his forthcoming Bluefinger album, too) are arranged in simple chronological fashion, which makes his gradual migration from outonalimb to the roots of the rock family tree seem improbably smooth. But it also underscores how much more interesting his youthful ADHD delivery was when compared to his presentday tradrock performances: Where Teenager of the Year was wildly unpredictable, showcasing Black skipping from one farout genre to the next, Dog in the Sand and Black Letter Days crawled with familiar rock tropes and felt oddly wooden. It's no accident that Teenager is represented  here by five tracks while the following four albums are covered in just six.  Track selection could've gone about a dozen different ways, since Black has no real hits apart from \"Los Angeles\" and the blissfully anthemic \"Headache\". The songs off his stranger early albums play mostly to the middle, focusing on oddball rock tunes like \"Ten Percenter\", \"(I Want to Live on an) Abstract Plain\", and the immortal \"Freedom Rock\". However, opener \"Los Angeles\" is about as outthere as this compilation gets musically, with its fauxmetal riffage and doomstricken keyboard bridge.  There are a lot of solid tracks strewn through the disc after \"Freedom Song\" wraps up the early phase. \"You Ain't Me\" and \"Men in Black\", from 1996's disappointing Cult of Ray, are stronger than I remember (\"Men in Black\", for what it's worth, was originally a Teenager Bside), but the Catholics years are mixed to say the least. \"All My Ghosts\", from 1998's Frank Black & the Catholics, and Pistolero's \"Bad Harmony\" both possess the manic energy that serves Black best, and the latter in particular is a great example of Black thriving in a pretty traditional rock setting. Dog in the Sand's \"Hermaphroditos\", though it sometimes feels like Frank Black trying to live up to being old weird Black Francis, is nevertheless greatly entertaining, with its squeezedout chorus and freakedout verses. Still, some songs are leaden: \"I Gotta Move\" has an awkward callandresponse chorus; \"Velvety\", from 2002's Devil's Workshop, is as close to outright bland as Black gets; and \"Manitoba\" is a ballad with horns and slide guitar that points the way toward Fast Man Raider Man, with a melody that isn't especially suited to Black's voice.  The new song, \"Threshold Apprehension\", sounds like it may have been inspired by the Pixies reunion it's punkier and spazzier than anything he's done in years, coming off almost like a reaction to his mellow Memphis sessions. Black bleats and squawks his way through it like he might have in 1989, but the sonic character of its dry, straightforward production is closer to what we've grown used to in his work with the Catholics. 9303 does serve as a nice overview of Black's first eleven years as a musical bachelor, and anyone listening for the first time should be able to get a strong sense of whether the album each track is drawn from might be worth pursuing further. Still, Teenager of the Year remains the first stop on any tour of Frank Black's solo career, especially for those seeking something closer to his original Pixies flair.  "}