{"label":" Lex","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10214/homepage_large.8afbd327.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Boom Bip","title":"Sacchrilege EP","text":"  If you're already a Boom Bip fan, there's a chance that his Sacchrilege EP is going to piss you off. Until now, Bryan Hollon has produced electronic music for people who don't really like electronic music. His most exceptional work is also among his earliest: 2000's Circle album with leprechaun rapper Doseone, an unclassifiable and often nightmarish work that approached hiphop as if it were action painting. But the solo album Seed to Sun and the two EPs that followed it found Hollon retreating to the jazzy, directionless territory DJ Shadow made safe for a whole generation of socalled experimental DJs. Hollon's music began to show signs of life again on 2005's Blue Eyed in the Red Room, an album with relatively unfractured beats and analog synth clouds describing coherent melodic arcs. With guest vocals by Super Furry Animals' Gruff Rhys (with whom Hollon is collaborating on a fulllength project this year) and Nina Nastasia, not to mention a welcome transparency, it felt like an album that wanted to engage listeners rather than keep them offbalance. And now, the straightforward Sacchrilege culminates Hollon's sevenyear transition from pandemonium to order. It's a tight quintet of technoinspired synth jams that have a lot more in common with Eliot Lipp's simple yet vibrant sequencing or Ratatat's stadiumsized squelch than Odd Nosdam's softfocused beat collage. Emphasis on technoinspired: Sacchrilege finds Hollon severing his tenuous ties to indie hiphop and jazz, but it will be a bit too rushed and songy for techno buffs. Instead, it's an album of driving electronic pop infused with Krauty mechanical pulsations, clubby, night riding synthesizers, and the sort of crystalclear dynamic shifts Hollon has shied away from until now. And it has an infectious enthusiasm you can tell Hollon feels stoked to be making music that really moves, and in his eagerness, he tries on a variety of styles. Opener \"Snook Adis\" is an itchy Italodisco sine wave that marks Hollon's first foray into music you could cruise to. \"Rat Tail\" is splashy, dotmatrix electro, and \"The Pinks\" is glossy new wave with interstellar synths and bucking cowbells. \"Coogi Sweater\" is a concentricallyrippled take on deep house, complete with coolly hedonistic lyrics from Ali Lee: \"Make your way/ To the bar/ Put me in your fancy car.\" It's the album's surest sign that Boom Bip is letting his hair down and embracing a value that's often been lacking from his otherwiseintriguing music: fun. It's also what stands to alienate listeners who like Boom Bip as a defiantly unjiggy undie auteur. People let a player play.  "}