{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10226/homepage_large.0b9009b7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"5 Years Get Physical","text":" For even moderately successful German dance labels, the arrival of anniversaries almost inevitably prompt orgiastic feats of navalgazing, in turn prompting bemused onlookers to question whether growing up doesn't also mean growing old. The bigger the label, the more divisive the celebration, and Get Physical are bigger than most: The label that held dancers' hands on the journey from electrohouse to minimal was facing a backlash long before its fifth birthday party arrived. Nonetheless it's difficult not to conclude that the roster that once could do no wrong (and by \"once\" I mean about two years ago) is inviting criticism with its latest double disc release. The first disc is devoted solely to a collection of (mostly) new remixes of past classics, with the interveners usually chosen on a favorreturning basis. This leads to some counterintuitive results, like Hot Chip trying and inevitably failing to enhance one of M.A.N.D.Y.'s best electrohouse stormers \"No Stoppin\" someone should explain to Hot Chip that dancefloor destruction is not as easy as their own remixers make it seem. With ringins such as Herbert, the Rapture, Moby, Señor Coconut, and Fujiya & Miyagi, the remix disc resembles a friends list on a MySpace page, more intent on demonstrating the label's diverse following and interconnectedness than on actually delivering results. In fact the collection isn't as painful as that list might suggest (even Moby only manages to bore with his wafting proghouse take on Djuma Soundsystem's \"Les Djinns\") but the often ridiculously eclectic transformations (Tropicália! Postpunk! Indierock!) of formerly streamlined instrumental dancefloor tracks seems at once calculating and illconsidered who could possibly want to hear all of them? The Larry Gold String Version of Booka Shade's \"Night Falls\" forms the disc's hubristic peak: a stringsonly reproduction, its Faze Actionstyle disco classicism is undermined by a pervading air of pointlessness. The mistake being made here is to assume that, because Get Physical are feted for their anthems, it's the tunes that are important, and that listeners will want to hear the key melodic motifs of these tracks in a dozen different styles. In fact, what has always made Get Physical appealing is the music's superlative sound design, transforming rather conventional grooves into dazzling, widescreen soundscapes and at least initially this was largely due to the sonic fingerprints of inhouse producers Booka Shade, who ensured that nearly every release shared the same fullbodied, luminescent glow. By outsourcing the grooves to such a disparate array of producers, this remix collection's main achievement is to ensure that this sound design, this aura of luxuriant perfection, is rarely in evidence (ironically, Henrik Schwarz, one of a very few artists whose baroque production touches could have worked magic on Get Physical's sonic blueprint, offers the disc's most understated and loyal remix, a murky dub of Booka Shade's \"Vertigo\"). The second disc of exclusive new tracks is better, but surprisingly strives for understatement. Most of the inclusions cleave to a muted sound somewhere between electro, minimal and deep house: a fertile valley to be sure, but one which is left curiously uncultivated despite the artists' high production values, with lush house warmth or melodic melodrama largely jettisoned in favor of insectile production nuances, grayscale synth pads and selfconscious old skool signifiers. At its best, this approach produces quietly compelling grooves such as Audiofly X's \"Don't Panic 'Til I Said So\", a softly shuddering piece somewhere between the glistening dubhouse of early Force Tracks and the BerlinDetroit rendezvous of recent Mobilee releases. Elsewhere, on tracks like Riton vs Heidi's \"To The Gum\" or DJ T's \"Once in a Lifetime\", the effect is a slightly grim sense of restraint. Even the reliable Chelonis R. Jones marries his excellent Sartreindrag monologue to an unnecessarily dry house groove. The album's most inviting moments are a reminder of just how great this label can be: Lopazz's paranoid \"The Fact\" is gorgeously dark, endlessly hummable italotechno that is unafraid to seize the pop jugular, perhaps because its cruel bass heft would silence any accusations of selling out. Even more radically, M.A.N.D.Y vs Booka Shade's \"Oh Superman\" is a gloriously straightforward and ecstatic remix of the Laurie Anderson classic, its key insight being that Laurie's repeated \"Huh huh huh\" makes for a fantastic dancefloor riff. The remix dates back to 2004, back when the sonic superiority of the label's aesthetic was so selfevident that there was no need not to be obvious. By contrast, the diversity of this collection's remixes, together with the terse selfcontainment of so many of its exclusives, suggest that the label is suffering from a momentary lapse of confidence in its own identity, chasing after stylistic rainbows while simultaneously sucking in its stomach in a bid to appear cutting edge. But the endless quest for relevance is not really Get Physical's main challenge at this stage. Having parked itself firmly on the invisible line between house and techno, the label can easily latch onto whichever trend flits closest, like a spider at the center of a vast web of interwoven scenes and sounds. The real challenge is for these artists to live up to their own past: Having been responsible for so many groundbreaking anthems in such a short timespan, it would be ignominious for the label to simply become a second Poker Flat, each year churning out a healthy modicum of quality product in the form of \"this year's model,\" but never sounding hungry, let alone dangerous. Surprise and excitement, rather than relevance, is what we loved them for: Let's hope that these aren't set aside along with other childish things. "}