{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10222/homepage_large.0e3475c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"James Brown","title":"The Singles, Volume Three: 1964-1965","text":"  As useful as completist reissue projects are, they inevitably run into some stuff that shouldn't have been issued in the first place. James Brown spent the better part of 1964 and 1965 playing chicken with King Records trying to get out of his contract, recording for rival label Smash, and continuing to tour on the back of his older hits and the random crap from the vaults that King kept tossing onto the market as singles. This will almost certainly be the weakest volume of HipO's mailorderonly completeJBsingles series, just because its historical context yielded so much barrelscraping. It also includes three of Brown's biggest hits, including at least one song that pretty much transformed all pop music after it, so that weakness is relative. Still, of the 36 A and Bsides here, more than half actually predate 1964: Brown didn't hand over any new material to King for the first year and a half of the two years this twodisc set covers. Four tracks are edited, sometimes drastically, from the epochal 1962 gig that became the hit Live at the Apollo LP \"Think\" is slowed down almost 20% in order to hit the twominute mark, an unfortunate antecedent of the choppedandscrewed soundand the eightyearold \"Please, Please, Please\" is (totally unconvincingly) overdubbed with screaming fans to sound live. So is a lackadaisical cover of Louis Jordan's \"Caldonia\" that became Brown's first single on Smash; discovering that it ran only 2:07, Brown apparently decided to make it more radioworthy by appending a little more crowd noise, then repeating its final 30 seconds. He scored one solid hit on Smash: the double Aside \"Out of Sight\" and \"Maybe the Last Time\", a protofunk look toward the future and a hardgospel wave toward the past. (The title of \"Maybe the Last Time\" was fitting: it was the final big single to prominently feature the Famous Flames on backing vocals, even though they weren't credited.) In response, King's boss Syd Nathan sued his star for breach of contract. The legal resolution was that Brown was still under contract to King for vocal recordings, but could record instrumentals for Smash. That gave Brown an excuse to cut a bunch of instrumentals that featured him playing organ with his band. He's legendary for his selfregard, of course, but releasing his organ solos as singles actually crossed the line into vanity.  Fortunately, in mid1965, King and Brown settled their differences, and Soul Brother #1, in turn, finally stopped dicking around. \"Papa's Got a Brand New Bag\", the first fruit of the détente, singlehandedly invented funk: it's more space than sound. (It's hard to beat Dave Marsh's description: \"The only way ['Papa'] could be more bonerattling would be if James Brown himself leaped from your speakers, grabbed you tight by the shoulders and danced you around the room, all the while screaming straight into your face.\") He followed that up with \"I Got You (I Feel Good)\", and as hard as it is to hear that song now that it's become the soundtrack to an audioanimatronic James Brown doll, the single grinning tune that stands in for a raging 50year career, it's still a hell of a record. With that leftright combination, his career pulled out of its twoyear mire, and his mightiest decade got underway.  "}