{"label":" Table of the Elements","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10230/homepage_large.18ed8135.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Great Koonaklaster Speaks: A John Fahey Celebration","text":"  Sufjan Stevens, Lee Ranaldo, Devendra Banhart, Howe Gelb, Calexico, and a halfdozen others will forever be linked through the waste that is I Am the Resurrection, the 2006 tribute to late, great guitarist and composer John Fahey produced by M. Ward and Steve Brower. I Am the Resurrection is the first of four Fahey tributes released in the last 16 months, and, with the biggest names and the most opportunity to expose a new crowd to the man's work, it's the biggest failure. Sure, it's goodhearted enough, and some of the covers Banhart's cloudy, menacing spin on \"Sligo River Blues\" and Howe Gelb's clunky, grinning piano interpretation of \"My Grandfather's Clock\" are convincing. But to think that I Am the Resurrection's alternately selfinvolved (Stevens) or irreverently unimaginative (Peter Case) interpretations gave newcomers invalid impressions of Fahey's catalogue is, really, a bit frightening. If Resurrection is the first and worst tribute to Fahey released since his 2001 death, The Great Koonaklaster Speaks is the newest and best, the clearest and most brazen picture of the onus and inspiration Fahey has left for modern music. Importantly, this is a tribute record, but it's not a covers record: Instead, it collects unreleased work from 11 current experimental acts that feel Fahey's influence and attempt to offer a glimpse of it here. Alternately humorous, solemn, grounded, and neoteric, the rangy work on Koonaklaster asserts that Fahey wasn't perfect or filtered, and that his legacy is at once challenging and lifting. It's not about critical doublespeak or who can pick the best sixstring. Instead, its liner notes are a fictional mythology of Fahey's life written in his style, and the playing recasts the characteristics that fired his legacy. Bravo.Koonaklaster wastes no time: Jack Rose who appeared on one of Resurrection's better moments with Pelt opens with \"Since I've Been a Full Grown Man\", an 11minute lament painted in layered motion by Rose's steelonsteel slide moans dotted by the wonderfully expressive, wide chords Fahey wrangled so well. Rose is a guitarist of the highest order, and, from Fahey, he's not only borrowed technique but also extreme gravitas. Fahey once said, \"I can make syncopation sound like death\"; \"Since I've Been a Full Grown Man\", then, is an ample weight for new shoulders.  The disc's other bookend, a 12minute closing piece in three parts from David Daniell, embodies the seeking, hybridizing nature of Fahey's best work. As a young guitarist, Fahey treated classical music, blues, country & western 78s, and pop fare as one body of music and attempted to feed it all through six steel strings. Later in life, Fahey married new interests in musique concrète and slower, almost droning pieces with this wellestablished, polyglot dexterity. Daniell gets this right with guitar motifs at the top and bottom, but between those poles the piece grinds through six minutes of menacing noise and drone. In doing so, Daniell encapsulates the best qualities of several other Koonaklaster contributions, like the loping comfort in music that Greg Malcolm references or the range of feeling that Ben Vida's themeandvariation approach intimates. It speaks well of Fahey and those who've studied his moves.  In these sorts of tributes, the artist baking in the spotlight of reverence is often parched of his personality: Fahey wasn't entirely morose or stoic, despite having Blind Joe Death as an alter ego. His collection of essays and short fictions, How Bluegrass Music Destroyed My Life, spills over with tiny jokes about the eternal war between cars and turtles; during the live set The Great Santa Barbara Oil Slick, he laughs with delight after a fawning crowd cheers as he blows his nose. Pumice communicate hints of this levity with \"Ceremonial Knives\", a simple, repetitive figure beset by noisemakers and toy keyboards, their agility poking fun at the slowmoving guitar. In a more subtle move, Lichens who surprises with one of the best, most thoughtful tracks here begins with a beautiful, perfectlypaced acoustic, slowly peeling the guitar away to fill its void with a humming drone based on the tonic note. Later, flickers of the guitar dance around the pure tone, winking at it, teasing its unflinching devotion.  Fahey wasn't a strict perfectionist, either. There was always a human risk (and sometimes error) involved in his music, and Koonaklaster communicates that as well. Near collection's end, Kentucky disciple R. Keenan Lawler fusses with time, tone, and tuning as he plays his resonator guitar, the overrunning phrases and uncertain rhythmic shifts communicating the challenges and rewards Fahey, his heroes, and his followers face by refusing to play too much too straight. It's a piece with personality, warts and quirks embedded among immense skill and imagination. After all, \"Fahey formed his vernacular through recordings,\" writes Nick Schillace, a Fahey student not included here, in his master's thesis, \"John Fahey and American Primitivism\". \"He took his basic technique and created an idiosyncratic cultivated style.\" He didn't do it necessarily so that others could do the same. But Koonaklaster, at last a mighty tribute to a worthy subject, proves that he might as well have. "}