{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10233/homepage_large.fd674dd1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: The Prix Label","text":"  In 2004, when Numero Group inaugurated its ambitious, by now essential Eccentric Soul series, it did so with a volume devoted to Bill Moss' Columbus, Ohio, label Capsoul. It was a disc that spoke to the enormous promise of such a project, and the imprint has since released five more excellent volumes in the series, excavating labels from Detroit, Chicago, Florida and Arizona. Perhaps it was just all the tantalizing names or references to the scene dropped in the liners of the Capsoul comp, but there was a sense of unfinished business regarding the world of Columbus smalllabel soul after that volume, and sure enough, Numero has returned to central Ohio for its latest. It would have been hard for a label to experience less sales success than Capsoul, but Prix Records, the distribution arm of the Harmonic Sounds studio, managed the trick. It was virtually unknown even in its day, serving more as a laboratory for musicians than a factory for hit 45s. In business for an eyeblink from 1969 to 1971, the studio and label nonetheless churned out a bonanza of killer funk and soul cuts, all of which went nowhere. And that's just what got released. Thirty years after the label closed its doors, a mostly unmarked box of demo recordings and a few finished masters showed up at an estate sale, waiting to be heard for the first time outside of Harmonic Sounds. Enter Numero, whose compilation mixes the released 45s with the unreleased stuff to tell the story of a remarkable assemblage of talent that was, alas, destined to toil in obscurity. Prix Records was founded by an unlikely duo: Mississippiborn Clem Price, a veteran who worked much of his life for a defense contractor, and George Beter, a floundering West Virginian lawyer whose brother introduced him to Price. The first group signed to Prix, the Royal Esquires, was drafted in its entirety after recording just one single, as apt an omen for the fate of the label overall as any.  Both sides of that single are here, both of them fantastic vocal harmony numbers that blend doowop techniques with thenmodern r&b production. The members do some nice leadtrading in the faster of the two, \"Ain't Gonna Run\", and both songs were cowritten by member Ron Farthing, a talented multiinstrumentalist who worked at a studio across town. \"Melon Jelly\", credited to the Soul Ensemble, is actually Farthing in the studio by himself, doing everything from playing drums to singing harmony, playing lead guitar, and making himself into an entire horn section.  Farthing was part of the Soul Partners, one of hundreds of extraordinary and completely unknown backing bands across the country who soundtracked the youths of an entire generation without anyone even realizing it. The Partners later had some smallscale success as the Buckeye Politicians, but that was after Prix was longgone. Prix's central singing talent was the luckless Eddie Ray, who stopped performing alongside Sam & Dave just before they signed with Atlantic and started churning out hits under the guidance of Isaac Hayes.  Ray's three tracks here are bolstered by two demos in the \"Extended Play\" section of the disc, and his voice is the first thing that stands out he was right up there with the best Stax had to offer, including Sam & Dave, gritty but melodic, and capable of powering his way over any backing track. His released singles, \"You Got Me\" and \"Glad I Found You\", were good, but it's the one that stayed on the shelf until now that's truly eyeopening. \"Wait a Minute\" is a breakneck stormer of a soul tune, draping a slow vocal melody over a whipping beat and billowing horns. I just get this picture of the drummer slowly melting into a salty puddle as the song progresses and he has to keep up this ridiculous rhythm. The horns alternate between jumping in the pocket created by the drums and playing against the rhythm with soft, open chords, and there's even a nasty psychedelic guitar part played by Joe King that crops up in the middle.  King got his own crack at recordmaking, and, despite preferring to remain in the background, he sings his ass off on his two solo tracks. Had he chosen to, he could have held his own with classic soul singers like Billy Paul and Al Wilson. His \"You're My Everything\" is a stunning slow jam, his own wahwahsoaked guitar stoking his soaring vocal on to ever greater heights of passion. Elsewhere, an old Eccentric Soul friend resurfaces: Marion Black had one of my favorite Capsoul tracks with the masterful \"Who Knows\", and he nearly equals it on \"Listen, Black Brother\", a slowburning ballad on which he spills out all of his frustration over blackonblack crime as a flute screams away in the bluesy, beatendown backing track. Capsoul's Ronnie Taylor also returns, this time at the helm of instrumental funk band OFS Unlimited.  Prix had all the ingredients for success: talented lead performers, a stable of excellent backing musicians, solid financial backing and a studio of its own, and yet here we are three and a half decades, hearing some of this music for the first time, and most of the rest of it for what may as well be the first time. Like so many of its counterparts, the label simply petered out and dried up when success proved elusive, leaving behind a tiny but artistically memorable legacy that's thankfully been resuscitated years after it all went down. It's still worth hearing.  "}