{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10232/homepage_large.11a2c1b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"Grails","title":"Burning Off Impurities","text":"  Though we'll be getting under the hood and taking a look at some individual tracks on these Portland, Oregon instrumentalists' newest dose of chakrarealigning rock their third fulllength, not counting a bunch of EPs and 12inches there really ain't much of a need. Not because these densely packed astraltraveling psych and Arabicspiced jams aren't worthy, but because the Grails craft sprawling long players to be digested in one long gobble, much like the oldschool lavalampdripping and incenseburning albums of yesteryear. Songs subtly and dynamically build, flow, spiral, and explode following a similar formula as the band's mostlikely signature influence Godspeed You! Black Emperor but unless one is paying close attention and is able to fight off the warm and fuzzy mistiness, one is unlikely to notice when the sevenminutelong tunes morph into a new jam. It's all about the LP, the kaleidoscopeturning ride and in this age of digital music, you don't even have to get up outta the beanbag to flip the side! If they haven't already, as the most excellent opening track, \"Soft Temple\" signifies, Grails really need to do soundtracks: light tribal drums introduce a Middle Easternsounding somethingorother (sounds like a banjo, but probably ain't) that gets hazed out by random percussion clouds and swirling guitar vapors; things chill in the opium den for awhile until galloping drums and a triumphant, melodic electric sixstring signals the charge for higher ground. Another track to riff on world music modalities is the stormy, and gotta say it again, quite GY!BEy \"Silk Rd\" that bellows out Indian drone (most likely from a sruti box) with serpentine sitar lines and electric axes that once again swell into an epic, tideisturning attack. Both numbers are totally cinematic, smartly layered, and quite unusual in that as California public radio station KFJC once perfectly coined \"Tibetan crime jazz\" sorta way. Keeping up the widescreen vista themes, I'm guessing the Grails are intentionally aiming for such highly visual and ambient fare, but most notably because several pieces seem to vibe film score maestro Ennio Morricone. There's the title track, where piano and sundrenched desert standoff guitars flip between the Western and the MiddleEastern and then hit a crescendo with Boleroblazing Spanish horns and Zeppelin III folky fretboard jangles. Or \"Origining\", once again, tumbleweedrolling via spaghettiwestern accents and harmonica, but sounding like Morricone signed on one of the several atmospheric hovercraft rockers found on the Temporary Residence roster (Mono, Explosions in the Sky, Envy) for supercharged pickme ups. Fans of Mogwai, Grails collaborators Red Sparowes, and the whole mostly nonmetallic side of the instrumentalgaze school should freak on Burning Off Impurities, but considering their highminded (both meanings) multiinstrumentation and multicultural scope, this Portland fivepiece just may be the best, or at least most novel. "}