{"label":" Now Again","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10242/homepage_large.41b721a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Now-Again Re:Sounds Vol. 1","text":" For all the things it's been given credit for changing over the years, hiphop's alteration of the way we think about and listen to music of the past is one of its most underrated aspects. Many of the original breaks that hiphop's sonic style was built on were already almost a decade old by the time the first rap songs were being put on wax, and in the 30plus years since, both traditionalists and experimentalists alike have tended to turn towards that same span of the 1960s and 70s for their muse, with constantlyshifting results. Combine that with the cratedigger's tendency to search for the obscure and the underheard, and it gives rise to an unusual form of revivalism that feels largely free of historical entropy and canonical stasis can it really be nostalgia if it's for something everybody else forgot? So it'd only make sense that Stones Throw, indie rap's most retrofutureminded label, would have its own archival imprint. NowAgain Records, the brainchild of onetime vinyl hoarder/Stones Throw manager/Funky 16 Corners compiler Eothen \"Egon\" Alapatt, has been kicking around for over five years, and in that time the label's given rare groove addicts a substantial fix, ranging from solid regional overviews (like Texas Funk: Black Gold from the Lone Star State 19681975) to a steady parade of 7\" funk and soul jazz singles that fall in line with Madlib and Peanut Butter Wolf's West Coast indie leanings. NowAgain Re:Sounds Vol. 1, however, lets the funkrap continuum swing the other way: Many of the artists who appeared on the label's reissue compilations and limitededition 45s a few years back are reintroduced back into the hiphop arena that allowed for their unearthing in the first place. Most of the ideas here are obvious but effective: Producer Koushik fuses together fragments of several tracks from the 2005 comp Cold Heat: Heavy Funk Rarities 19681974, taking about a dozen different horn riffs and twanging guitars and what sounds like about three concurrent drum breaks to deliver a blownout wall of funk bass for Percee P to blaze over. J.Rocc's \"Cold Heat Funk Mix Pt. 1\" has essentially the same idea, but avoids redundancy by foregoing rap vocals for a King Tubby dubfunk approach, and his other contributions including a jittery but velvetlush rework of Kashmere Stage Band's \"Ain't No Sunshine\" and a gritty splice of Detroit Sex Machines' \"Rap It Together\" and \"Funky Crawl\" make fine work of turning their source material's shoestringbudget production and garageband feel into hazy, psychedelic samplesoul. And Cut Chemist's remix of L.A. Carnival's melancholy, psychedelic soul classic \"Blind Man\" gives it a brisk downhill push, upping the tempo and bridging the gap between the two versions most heads know the acidrock freakout from the obscurantist Memphix comp Chains and Black Exhaust and the Hammondheavy revision NowAgain included on Would Like to Pose a Question by swapping out the former's fuzz guitar and the latter's organ riffs for a straightforward bassandhorns groove. With Lester Abrams' simple but effectively plaintive vocals at the forefront, it hits a bit closer emotionally than the subsequent \"Rap Version,\" which features M.E.D. making like a flattervoiced Mos Def, but they both bump like nobody's business. As much shine as the craft of hiphop gets on this comp, there's a brief but intriguing flash of house music crossover right at Re:Sounds' epicenter, as Todd Terry and Kenny Dope both take their shots at remixing Kashmere Stage Band. Given the source material an adept but often raw 1970s high school funk band from Texas it's almost a given that neither track is going to sound slick enough for most modern housefriendly dancefloors. But while neither of them are radically transformative, there's no shortage of movement in either track; Terry's take on the band's version of Stevie Wonder's \"I Wish\" rides an opening monster discofunk break into a blast of manic chasescene horns, and Kenny's mix of \"Super Strut Pt. 1\" underscores the original's borderlineLatin groove (though it does tend to get rhythmically hitched up in a couple places). Most of the prime stuff on Re:Sounds Vol. 1 has already been parceled out here and there, but it's largely been available only on 7\", which makes this comp useful for just about anyone without a turntable. Just don't expect most of the previously unreleased material to be all that spectacular: Aloe Blacc's \"Blind World\" is the first of three consecutive tracks to riff off \"Blind Man\", and his demiNas rhymes place it in the \"solid enough\" category, but Edan's hippiedip priapism (\"sex is the reason that we all exist/ see, the stars made love in primordial mist\") sinks \"Sagittarius Rapp\", the Heliocentricsaugmented triphop of \"Before I Die\" suffers from a sleepysounding, rudimentaryrhyming turn from Guilty Simpson, and Sound in Light's tinkly fuzak disemboweling of Amnesty's \"Free Your Mind\" sounds like a Holiday Inn version of Morcheeba. Still, they're scarce missteps on a compilation largely filled with interesting reinterpretations, and Re:Sounds Vol. 1 adds a postscript to the old cliche: Those who forget the past are doomed to repeat it, but those who remember it have their ways of making it sound a bit weirder. "}