{"label":" Anodyne","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10246/homepage_large.22567b94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Meat Puppets","title":"Rise to Your Knees","text":" Along with friends and contemporaries the Minutemen, the Meat Puppets remain one of the most interesting and inspiring anomalies to emerge from the U.S. hardcore scene. The band's crooked path to alternative rock almoststardom is welldocumented, but their stylistic singularity and influence still remain largely underacknowledged. No other records before or since sound exactly like II or Up on the Sun; hazy and laid back but staggeringly tight and impeccably arranged. Guitarist Curt Kirkwood's intricate, handpicked style can be heard today in the multilayered playing of Oxford Collapse's Mike Pace, among many others. Unfortunately, the Meat Puppets have been best known as of late for the tragic misadventures of erstwhile Kirkwood brother Cris. The fact that this record was made at all is pretty amazing; the fact that it's not half bad even more so. The Meat Puppets have never been a band to stray too far from what they do best; with the exception of the sea change between their eponymous debut and their masterpiece II, the band's stylistic development has been gradual, sometimes to the point of stagnation. Rise to Your Knees strikes a fairly comfortable balance between the spare, spritely Meat Puppets of yore and the more polished and forceful Meat Puppets of the mid1990s. The most pleasing moments on Rise to Your Knees often arise from the simple charm of its melodies; the instrumentation here is far from the propulsive intricacy of the Puppets' best work. Generally speaking, the choruses on Rise far outshine the meandering verses, as the band snaps into a more simple and straightforward groove that highlights the trademark Kirkwood drawl. And sure enough, time has proven surprisingly flattering to the brothers' voices, which come through rich and satisfying throughout. By the first chorus of standout track \"On the Rise\", it's clear that the Puppets' charms have remained intact, even if their new songs come up a bit short. With the exception of the baffling 311esque \"Enemy Love Song\", there are very clunkers to be found here. On songs like the excellent \"Disappear\", the brothers Kirkwood actually find their way back some of the tight and propulsive guitar and bass interplay that marks the Puppets' best work. For the most part, though, the songs on Rise are hazy and unremarkable. As with most of the Meat Puppets' lesser records, this one is easy to space out to all dense harmonies, psychedelic guitars and unwavering drum beats but often fails to really capitalize on the band's unique strengths. As was the case with Dinosaur Jr's recent Beyond, Rise to Your Knees is an interesting reminder that the specific musical thread started by this band hasn't been fully picked up since; though a far cry from their strongest records, Rise finds the Meat Puppets thereofre sounding somewhat fresh. It follows, then, that this doesn't quite come off as a \"comeback\" album, but rather a middling addition to a prolific and distinctive catalog. As the title suggests, Rise to Your Knees isn't so much a glorious resurgence as a humble but definitive step towards recovery. "}