{"label":" Latino Bugger Veil","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1037/homepage_large.e3dc789f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Butthole Surfers","title":"Humpty Dumpty LSD","text":" Dude, man, dude, shit, man, how much do I love the Fork? I got stoned for this review. Blizzardstoned. Pilgrimstoned. Perestroikastoned. What, man? What'd you say? Laser who? Mom, I know you, man! I will murder you for an omelet! Hey, zookeeper. Say it, it sounds so alien, man. Zookeeper. Zoobie. Run from the Zangler! A fiftyfoot Nancy Reagan brain beams out for me to Just Say No. I got grandkids. Hey, sleepyhead, answer me this: how can we sleep while our beds our burning, huh? How? Ahem. The most entertaining chapter, by far, in Michael Azerrad's mammoth Our Band Could Be Your Life, is the chapter on the Butthole Surfers. Their exponentially high jinks way outshine the runnerup bits about Ian McKaye being afraid of beer because of his tippy pappy or the chronicle of Lou Barlow's impulsive midshow revolts against J. \"The Masticator\" Mascis. The Butthole chapter documents how they wiped their testiclesweat on a suitcase that Jimmy Carter came to pick up for his stranded daughter, and how the Surfers moved to Athens just to stalk/pester R.E.M. And everyone knows that Gibby Haynes called his major label tour opener the Stoned Pimple Toilets just as the second or third wave of fake grunge was cresting. Black Heart Procession's Pall Jenkins told me at a concert a couple weeks ago that right up there among his influences with Brian Eno, Black Sabbath, Johnny Cash, and the Residents lurk the Buttholes and their \"total drug songs\". Though Independent Worm Saloon served up some viable trashrawk while cashing in on the sound of the Flannery O'Connorinspired Ministry teamup \"Jesus Built My Hotrod\", the Buttholes' output has been snoozy of late, with drumloops, tame material, predictable song structures, and perfunctory freakouts that feel halffreaked. Humpty Dumpty LSD, though, is a gathering of home recordings, fourtrackings, practicespace jams, comp tracks, and outtakes from 19821994. Meaning: it's a hell of a good time, taking us listeners all the way back to when we used to repeat Hairway to Steven on our headphones while the adults in proximity worshipped God or beat each other with telephone books. This is the trippierthananapalmSlipNSlide band, powerful enough to convince haters than the Buttholes' career isn't an extended prank but a piece of redneck performance art. The tracks are predominantly instrumental, and some of them, such as the apocalyptic lurcher \"Eindhoven Chicken Masque\" or the panoramic synthplusfeedback picnic of \"Space\" parts I and II are excellent. In fact, much of this raucous release makes one wish that postrock would unbutton its stiff shirt already. The Buttholes' grinding pedalmesses and tribally intoxicating drums sound like dumb fun, but they display a visceral intelligence, far from the vibe of certain Grubbs/O'Rourke thesesreadings. Gibby (going by Gibson Haynes on this outing, in the fanciest formality upgrade since Red Heat's Larry Fishburne metamorphosed into Laurence Fishburne III) is a profane Robert Pollard, and you get all his great bad sides here: the voice so distorted it's monstrous, the panicattacked insect voice, the buzzsaw, and his natural BuddyHollymeetsYosemiteSam nasal/guttural yowlp. The album forms a kind of Texasnut triumvirate since Roky Erickson's \"Earthquake\" gets covered and Daniel Johnston performs vocal assistance on the eightminute hellstomp \"All Day\". And for every nugget of nonsense (\"Night of the Day\" is just pretty chords getting pitchshifted and whammybarred mixed with some distance screams, snores and wet farts), gurgly antisymphonies such as \"Hetero Skeleton\" spaz all over the place. Plus, you get treats like the hilarious intro to early punker \"I Hate My Job\". Whether the band is in flailing or militaristic mode, this is the soundtrack to those nights you don't deserve to have survived, when only your Converse AllStars saved you from that electric fence, or when you wake up with the taste of rust in your mouth, blood in your Cheerios, an oboesized bruise, and a tattoo that says \"I Am a Thundering Herd\". "}