{"label":" Beggars Banquet","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10263/homepage_large.9a4f458c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"St. Vincent","title":"Marry Me","text":" \"The most powerful weapon to conquer the devil is humility. For, as he does not know at all how to employ it, neither does he know how to defend himself from it.\" Saint Vincent de Paul (b. 1581  d. 1660) Maybe that explains it. Maybe that quote from the real Saint Vincent, namesake of multiinstrumentalist Annie Clark's nom du rock, explains why, rather than step right into the spotlight, Clark instead chose to spend so much of her time as an oftbefrocked member of both Sufjan Stevens and the Polyphonic Spree's flock.  One might have assumed that, hey, maybe she was just more comfortable as a group utility player, but like most assumptions it's simply not borne out by the imposing reality of her various talents. As her St. Vincent debut immediately asserts, Clark's more than ready to be out front. In fact, it's amazing she didn't step into the spotlight sooner, considering the countless ideas swirling about Marry Me, an artrock album at times redolent of prime Kate Bush and Lodgerera David Bowie.  Maybe \"humility\" isn't the first word that springs to mind when you read the liners crediting Clark with \"voices, guitars, bass, piano, organ, Moog, synthesizers, clavieta, xylophone, vibraphone, dulcimer, drum programming, triangle, percussion.\" Triangle? Is that really something to boast about? Then again, with its brilliant production flourishes and impeccably leftfield arrangements, false modesty does not behoove the disc.  In the case of music like this, the devil to conquer is preciousness and indulgence. No doubt, in lesser hands Clark's quirks and eccentricities would mark the St. Vincent project a nogo from the start. But at every turn Marry Me takes the more challenging route of twisting already twisted structures and unusual instrumentation to make them sound perfectly natural and, most importantly, easy to listen to as she overdubs her thrillingly sui generis vision into vibrant life.  Clark's hardly alone in the endeavor. Not to be outSpreed, Marry Me features, among other helpers, a chorus (used mostly as melodic and rhythmic counterpoint), Bowie pianist Mike Garson, and Polyphonic Spree/Man Or AstroMan? drummer Brian Teasley, a wiz at picking the right beats for all the perfectly wrong places. But from the frenetic first half of the disc, where the ideas are coming fast and furious and Clark lets her inner prog run wild, to the mellow second, Marry Me is clearly the product of one person's fertile and clearly very well organized subconscious.  \"Now, Now\" dances around a tricky little guitar pattern and Clark's sweet vocal melodies her biggirl voice a welcome respite from indie rock's lame habit of faux naivety as bass and drums push and pull the song taut then loose again. The grace of the track suddenly gives way to explosive guitar, the previous precision dissolved into distorted passion. \"Jesus Saves, I Spend\" bounds along in 6/8, with the chorus and spedup vocals countering Clark's own coo. \"Your Lips Are Red\" mutates from throb to tribal freakout, a croaking, scraping guitar and sinewy lead hinting at the chaos that never quite comes. \"Apocalypse Song\" features a polyrhythmic voice, drum and handclap breakdown that vies with strings and more skronking noise.  The warisnotover \"Paris is Burning\" is a woozy Weimaresque waltz filled out by phased effects, a martial groove and sneaking, cynical lines like the Shakespeare allusion \"Come sit right here and sleep while I slip poison in your ear.\" Elsewhere Clark slips in a few other memorable lyrics as well. In \"Your Lips Are Red\" she complains, \"Your skin so fair it's not fair.\" In the title track, Clark gets off the lasciviously blasphemous comeon \"we'll do what Mary and Joseph did...without the kid.\"  The slower vibe of the last few tracks isn't as immediate as what came before it, but that doesn't make it any less impressive. \"Landmines\" is like \"Subterranean Homesick Alien\" redone as a torch song. \"All the Stars Aligned\" plods along like a pleasant Beatles outtake, at least until Clark's miniorchestra briefly (and curiously) quotes John Barry's \"James Bond Theme\". \"Human Racing\" begins as a gentle bossa nova before blossoming into a hypnotic pulse for its fadeout. The jazzy final song, \"What Me Worry?\" is as traditional as the disc gets, except for the fact that Clark picked it to end an album that spends most of its previous minutes exploring the unconventional.  \"Love is just a bloodmatch to see who endures lash after lash with panache,\" Clark sings, without coming across nearly as precociously as she could have. \"Have I fooled you, dear? The time is coming near when I'll give you my hand and I'll say, 'It's been grand, but...I'm out of here.'\" And then she's gone.  Oh, and the final sound you hear before you inevitably press play and listen to the whole beguiling thing again? A triangle. Guess those lessons paid off after all.  "}