{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10264/homepage_large.be28ce00.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Bjørn Torske","title":"Feil Knapp","text":"  Oslo's Smalltown Supersound recently released a lovely and (so far) overlooked label sampler/mix CD called Sunkissed. In addition to tracks from Pitchfork favorites like Lindstrøm and SerenaManeesh, the set features two tracks from Bergen, Norway's Bjørn Torske, both of which can be found here on his first fulllength album since 2003's Trobbel. Of all the possible names for a compilation on which to find Torske, it'd be hard to think of one better than Sunkissed; though he has range as a producer and works in a fair number of different moods, everything here is crisp, bright, airy, and shot through with light. Torske is obviously in love with dub, and has a fondness for understatement. His music is often danceable and clubby, but there's never a sense of menace and it never seems like a soundtrack to hedonism. Instead, throughout Feil Knapp, Torske seem concerned with spaciness and warmth, and, above all, on creating a subtle but palpable sense of uplift. There's also a consistently engaging and playful sense of musical humor at work. \"Spelunker\" begins with some squeals and blips from a vaguely familiar video game 8bits, maybe not even and then uses the sound effects to build a melody for deep, bottomheavy, but still nimble dub. It's goofy but also terrific fun, as he essentially uses the game noises as highpitched focus place of, say, Augustus Pablo's melodica. \"Kapteinens Skjegg\" is another dub excursion, but more driven and heavier, its insistent 13 upstrokes providing the foundation for all manner of echo and flangeladen percussion fills. Torske's palette retains roots reggae's earthiness while remaining happily unconcerned with any sense of authenticity. When Torske ups the speed, he keeps the dubby bass out front but adds jazzy chords and all manner of organic percussion untethered to the 4/4 grid. The snappy \"Tur I Maskinparken\" almost has a postrock cast like a TNTera Tortoise remix, say the way it blends elements like a quickly tapping drum machine with electric piano vamping. \"Loe Bar\" is much more danceable, as easy on the ears as mellow retailready house but far more engaging, incorporating drama with some yearning new wave synth chords and combining a hypnotic bounce with a striking tunefulness. The eightminute \"God Kveld\", which was also on Sunkissed in abbreviated form, has a MiamitoBrooklyn electro feel, with a synth melody ready to drive a Jan Hammer instrumental wedded to congas, acidic bass, and loose, rubbery drum percussion with the timbre of handclaps. The breakdown in the song's middle is wonderfully odd and unpredictable, as Torske (or his digital proxy) seems content to bang on things just for the joy of hearing them make noise.  A little while ago we highlighted \"Møljekalas\", the relaxed midtempo cut here that is both uncommonly blissful and clearheaded. On days when the sun is bright but the mercury is still reasonable and the humidity remains in check, not a whole lot from this year sounds better. Feil Knapp is a sense an easy record to overlook, since it contains little grit, zero angst, and next to no dark shading. It is, then, the perfect album for a certain kind of mood, a mood one hopes to find oneself in now and then as July turns to August here in the Northern Hemisphere.  "}