{"label":" Stones Throw","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10262/homepage_large.4af97698.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Oh No","title":"Dr. No's Oxperiment","text":"  Just ask Dave Davies, Freddie Stone, or Catfish Collins: Whenever you get two brothers simultaneously making their way into the music business, there's often only enough room in the spotlight for one of them. Unlike that other musicalfamily member with the same name, Michael \"Oh No\" Jackson has spent much of his career trying to live up to the standards of his older brother, Otis Jackson Jr. better known as Madlib. And while Oh No's first two albums 2004's The Disrupt and 2006's Exodus Into Unheard Rhythms were solid enough to rule out nepotism as a reason for his Stones Throw roster slot, the perception that his commonplace rhymes couldn't match the creativity of his production tended to put him a couple steps behind Madlib's breakneck artistic pace. Not that you can really get any substantial psychological motivations from Dr. No's Oxperiment, Oh No's newest and best record, but there's a vague sense of sibling rivalry beneath the surface: it plays as if he heard big brother Madlib's instrumental streamofconsciousness bumpermusic concoction Beat Konducta and immediately set about oneupping it. Like Exodus Into Unheard Rhythms, which was pieced together entirely from samples of music by Hair composer and film score funk maestro Galt MacDermot, Dr. No's Oxperiment draws from a limited thematic palette: psychedelic pop from Europe and the Middle East, particularly Greece, Turkey, Italy, and Lebanon. It's perilous turf, since both acid rock and Mediterranean music can sound gimmicky and exploitative when reassembled carelessly into some semblance of hiphop. But Oh No avoids falling into embarrassing exotica clichés by reworking the beats to the point where their exact point of origin becomes unclear not just the region, but the genre, as shards of intricate prog, rural folk music, and raucous garage rock all melt into a sort of junkyard jazzfunk. The tone of the record is set with opening track \"Heavy\": At 1:54, the longest cut on the whole album, it takes little time to establish the psychedelic breakbeat motif and even less time to prove it successful, a stinging fuzz guitar riff and a trilling Middle Eastern vocal accenting taut, clipped drums. From there it segues into \"Gladius\", which skirts Madlib territory with rubbery boomclap percussion and a caterwauling Moog, \"Higher\", with a halting stopstart groove that stitches together abruptlyinterrupted guitar and snare loops with thick, prominent seams, and \"Breakout\", which conjures up fistfight rhythms from fragments of spyflick strings, corroded funk riffs, and panicattack percussion with bass so blownout it could turn tweeters into woofers.  You could get the general sense of how the whole album might play out just from those first four tracks, which total about sixandaquarter minutes in all. But Dr. No's Oxperiment practically demands you listen to it fronttoback; shuffling it amidst a list of thousands might make its tracks' occasional appearances seem a little fleeting and more than a little abrupt, but played beginningtoend it ebbs and flows and develops naturally over the course of just under 40 minutes. Midalbum tracks like \"Exp Out the Ox\" (a 61second burst of twangy elastic bass, snakecharmer guitar, and a bumblebee synthesizer that sounds like it's being played by a thimblesized Bernie Worrell) and \"Emergency\" (a harpsichord slapboxes a drum machine to a popandlock cadence) feel like the first of multiple culminations, and the three late cuts \"Cassette\", \"Down Under\", and \"Smokey Winds\" save some of the album's most forceful beats for the home stretch. The only real flaw about the record's flow is that it doesn't exactly know how to end: the muggy \"Slow Down\" fuses a clanking aluminum woodblock beat to the subdued wail of an indeterminate horn, but it simply snaps off after a brief, inconclusivesounding loop of Arabesque strings. Dr. No's Oxperiment is one of the most fulfilling beatdriven instrumental hiphop records since J Dilla's Donuts, and the fact that he pulled it off solely by turning to a rarelytapped vein of psych that few hiphop producers have even approached is proof enough that talent runs rampant in the family. Hopefully Oh No isn't sick of hearing comparisons to his brother after putting together a record filled with occasionally surreal and frequently hardhitting beats that rank up there with some of the best moments on Madvillainy and The Unseen, he'll probably be getting a lot more of them. "}