{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10271/homepage_large.244bc39e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Dälek","title":"Deadverse Massive Vol. 1: Dälek Rarities 1999-2006","text":"  Dälek don't do concessions: For the past nine years, the New Jersey duo has done its will alone, labelhopping from tiny local Gern Blandsten to the freerange Ipecac to the predominantly metal Hydra Head with intervening stops at a halfdozen international experimental outlets for collaborations, splits, and remixes. They count Faust, the Last Poets, and Godflesh's Justin Broadrick as partners and pit virulent, unflinching free verse against a production sense mostly indebted to 20th century art music (Robert Ashley, Merzbow, Tony Conrad) and very loud rock (My Bloody Valentine, the Mute usuals). Indeed, the ultimate question for Dälek remains one of audience: Even though we often hear from Will \"MC Dälek\" Brooks that this is hiphop, who is this the hiphop of, or for? And on what level(s) should it be approached? Sure, Dälek's standard boombap beats are potent headnodders, and Brooks' lyrics offer social barbs, race repudiations, and a tetanic middle finger to the culture industry. But the stuff drifting above and between the beats is something else entirely, less innercity streets and more recordstore abstraction. Some love the production and hate the rhymes (see Tom Breihan's review of Abandoned Language: \"stodgy oldman battlerap...not really a rap group...industrialshoegaze IDM\"), while others find the clamor a redundant distraction to Brooks' unguarded lyrical fire. Language's 10minute titular track, for instance, begins with Brooks leaning on lines like, \"It's easier to start wars than it is to feed kids.\" By the sixminute mark, those words wash under violin drones and heavy electronic noise, the beat persevering just beneath. You'll know what \"we\" are meant to get from this, but who is we, exactly? On that level, Dälek's first collection of rarities and remixes, Deadverse Massive, is fascinating. Functionally, it does what it should do, reaching across six years of Dälek's catalogue to place two unreleased cuts alongside material from five outofprint splits and a remix from Enon's In This City EP. And it points to the vaulted echelon from which Dälek's long been working: Between opening cut \"Megaton\" (a 2001 collaboration with Broadrick's Techno Animal) and the finalthird \"Maintain\" (from the 2006 Streets All Amped EP, included in entirety here), Dälek is consistently titan and bold. Deadverse doesn't get chronologically better or worse, more brave or more meek. It just keeps working: Dälek turn a 2002 Kid606 beat into a menace, the music stretched and screeching beneath Brooks' flow. They drench the metropolitan anxiety and naiveté of Enon's \"In This City\" with ounces of Lithium, letting the ugly city sound like it will swallow Toko Yasuda.  But Deadverse is a rarified collection, partially answering its subject's prevailing question the one of audience while posing it anew with 13 pieces that master the Dälek gamut from different angles. Here, the production wing peels away from the rhyming/songmaking controls: The 17minute instrumental \"Music for ASM\" is a collageheavy marathon of 1,000 glitches bouncing off corroded long tones. With this separation, it becomes clear that Dälek are testing every limit, exploring every boundary, not taking any answers easily. When the duo's two sides come back together, as on the remarkable \"3:46\", force and impact peak in exponents. \"Here's your fucking three minute pop song,\" Brooks screams at track's end, his voice irate against Oktopus' swarm of harsh noise. Above the track's upheaval, the point of Dälek pieces united seems clear: At their best, they lock form to function and claw at a cause in this case, cheap fucking beats and rhymes.  It's not impossible to love one side of Dälek while abhorring the other. In fact, it's too easy. That fault has less to do with two musicians from New Jersey making the music they want to hear than it does with audiences on both sides of the spectrum too queasy to admit that hiphop and experimental music should question their own borders and see what they can share. Who says a rap group from New Jersey rhyming about American poor buying empty stock in expensive religion can't hand those verses to an electronic pop group from Switzerland called Velma for remixing? And that the same rap group can't take one of that group's pop songs and make it sound as sinister and suggestively unsettling as a man hiding his face beneath the halogen glow of a street lamp in New Jersey at night? Take the inverse of that answer, and Dälek should have the crowd they've long deserved.  "}