{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10274/homepage_large.97e107c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Sir Richard Bishop","title":"While My Guitar Violently Bleeds","text":" Most people, myself included, know squat about the intricacies of solo acoustic guitar music, so we're doomed to the same set of comparisons: if it's fast and folkrooted, it sounds like John Fahey; if it's a raga, it sounds like Robbie Basho; if it's dissonant, it must be Derek Bailey; Django Reinhardt will get thrown in so we show we're okay with prebop jazz, and because losing the use of two really important fingers in a fire lends you a certain ageless cache. Richard Bishop, still best known for his work alongside his brother Alan and the recently departed Charles Gocher in the panethnic garagerock group Sun City Girls, has weathered all these comparisons and not without reason. Thing about the Sun City Girls was each of their records was different, each a new challenge in shredding the comforts of American folk idioms with nonWestern sounds, of beating out ornaments with aggression rather than manners. The NoFi label recently released a 7\" of Bishop playing two SCG classics, Torch of the Mystics' \"Esoterica of Abyssynia\" and \"Space Prophet Dogon\". Bishop's playing is astonishing; he makes more clatter and bliss with an acoustic guitar than the trio did on the originals, plugged in. But SCG's actual songs were unclassifiable like John Fahey's were, which is why people compared him to avantgarde composers like Bela Bartok and bluesmen like Charley Patton in the same stroke, while everyone in his wake was just compared to him. Bishop's solo stuff, though, has focused more on craft than on innovation, assimilating styles he's already gone over in his past, showing his ability to wander through a guitar with confidence and direction even when he's improvising. More and more, he's playing in idioms: While My Guitar Violently Bleeds doesn't sound like nothing you've ever heard before, it sounds like good things you've already heard plenty of times played with an impressive amount of skill. But \"impressive amount of skill\" is one of those phrases employed to skirt a sore spot: Sometimes, Bishop's music sounds almost sterile in how archetypal it is. \"Here is my Middle Eastern fire,\" Bishop whispers with \"Zurvan\"; \"Let me paint you a desiccated landscape from muffled feedback and reverb,\" he implores with \"Smashana\". And yes, Bishop can connote mystical shit even when he's just spinning his wheels, but these trips lose their dazzle the more we take them. Consider them utility players, not Gnostic texts or totems. \"Mahavidya\", the 25minute raga that fills out the album, is when Bishop lands his blow: He rumbles, he makes shapes, he hisses. Halfway in, he starts smacking the varnish off his guitar, and lo, it's not just for the sake of showing his plumage, but for the grace of musical idea it feels like it has to be there, even if it's hard to discern what that might mean for thirty seconds from now. Massive wounds don't flow the way they do in movies. They look a little like John Fahey sounded: sudden, unpredictable, oddly without drama. While My Guitar Violently Bleeds has the same problems and charms all Bishop's do: Most of the time, it's smeared stage blood it looks more classically beautiful than the real thing, but it doesn't always chill the marrow. "}