{"label":" Minus","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10268/homepage_large.c6dedadf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nothing Much and Something More","text":" For a slew of reasons both valid and ridiculous his exhausting longevity, his tendency toward the austere, the cartoonish significance attributed to simple changes of his hair it's become easy to take Richie Hawtin for granted. No talk of techno past or present can forego his standing within it all, but Hawtin's gravity doesn't exactly square with the genre's fetish for the new and the unknown. How can a sound that prizes progressivism so proudly account for the enduring presence of a guy who started making his name in 1987? Anyone eager to write off Hawtin as a holdout of history, however, runs into a problem with Minus. Started as an outgrowth of his storied label Plus 8, Hawtin's surging Minus imprint has situated itself among the elite enterprises that regard techno as more than a mere style. No label maintains a more faithful devotion to \"minimalism\" as an idea, and certainly no label works as much to marry ideology to the functionalism that techno holds dear. Watch the Hawtin documentary DVD Pioneers of Electronic Music Vol. 1, and you'll be hardpressed to hear a more convincing argument for minimaltechno's place within the whole of 20thcentury art; ask anyone about the illicit party culture of contemporary Berlin, and you won't go long without hearing about Minus as a bellwether.Nothing Much compiles 11 tracks from the tight Minus roster, with diverging interests met in kind. Studiousness and salaciousness abound from the start: In \"48 Hour Crack in Your Bass\" by Magda, a constrained mood gives over to a mess of druggy backandforth noise when the tick of a beat fattens in time with an ominous throb. The same goes for \"Fed on Youth\" by False (another alias, along with Audion, for Matthew Dear), which moves from desiccated syncopation to a weighted mass of sirens and bangs. Both are characteristic examples of furrowbrowed severity evolving into a sound that makes eyes go wide a phenomenon that marks Minus in its prime. The knock against Minus is that it hews toward the portentous and the dry, with the mandate for minimalism precluding the kind of release that long, slow builds promise. That applies to Gaiser's \"Egress\", which fidgets nicely but fails to live up to the Detroit native's sublime Minus 12\" from last year. But then there's a counterpoint like JPLS' \"Green01 (Skoozbot's Twilite Remix)\", which plays like a study but summons a rise of energy in its steady gait. Heartthrob's \"Baby Kate\" goes the other way, trading energy for mystery summoned by the melodic rise and fall of a synth riff that sounds like it's tired or dying. The knock against Nothing Much is the degree to which it overlaps with the recent Minus compilations Minimize to Maximize and Min2Max. It's valuable to hear some of the label's wellworn tracks in context on a bonus disc mixed into a continuous set by Troy Pierce, but both of the previous collections feature tracks that are the same or an awful lot like the ones held out for attention here. Familiarity can be an asset, though especially when a label that prioritizes small surprises lines them all up in a row and lets angles against them go at cross purposes. "}