{"label":" Mobilee","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10293/homepage_large.e01e2533.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Sebo K","title":"Back Up Vol. 01","text":"  Daunting when you don't know but engrossing once you start to spy light in the dark, the secret to making sense of dance music hinges on the distinction you draw between house and techno. Here's mine: House responds to a source of gravity that hovers above the music, while techno reacts to mass whose weight remains below. It's the difference between up and down an easy metric whose simplicity proves all the more useful when complexity enters in. Complexity enters in a lot, as anybody invested in dance music will be quick to point out. But complexity only counts when you can recognize the parts in play. Bodies are better at this than brains: Dance to house or techno, and you'll find yourself rising to hihats like a marionette or stomping on basskicks like a machine without stopping to register the difference. Making actual sense of it, though that's another project. Sebo K doesn't sound the least bit academic about this on Back Up Vol. 01, but the meaning of it all seethes in the subtext of a DJ mix devoted to house, techno, and strategically articulated points in between. As a matter of course, the set surveys the resurgence of house modes in the realm of German minimaltechno, where a fixation on negation has turned toward a reverence for the pregnant pause. House is hot these days, in part for the way its atmospheres (full of sweat, sex, and spirituality) make house scan almost literally as \"hot\" music.  That's not to say the cool mechanistic twitch of techno doesn't play a role. Back Up's opening track, by Kerri Chandler, features a voice singing about a \"digital love affair\" over a spell of haunted beats gone to grey. The stoic aural tone and downward drizzle of synths lean toward techno, but the onset of writhing moans and hisses splayed out in sticky air that's house all the way. There's no question of provenance once Sascha Dive's \"Deep in Rhythm\" wanders in and backs down to the funky shudders and claps of John Daly's \"Do It\", which derives its swing mostly from economical highend accents that sound like a thin stick of pencil lead scratching spotty code on parchment.  One of the most interesting aspects of the current house music swell is the sense of history it puts into play. Sebo K and his label Mobilee stand in as signs of Berlin in the present day, but Back Up traffics in sounds or at least the spirit of sounds that could have come from Chicago or New York 20 years ago. The best tracks are the ones that conflate devotion and deviation, like Efdemin's \"Just a Track\" (replete with a dumb/brilliant a cappella speech from an aspiring President of the House Nation) and Jimpster's \"Seventh Wave\" (a tightly coiled banger that eyes the minimal prize of Melchior Productions more than anything tied to soiled cities in America). The historical loop cinches in the middle with a new track by Larry Heard, the fabled Chicago producer who helped define house in its early days as Mr. Fingers: Blown over with soulful vocals and a maniacal synth figure from way back when, \"The Sun Can't Compare\" trails a history of \"acid\" house that recoils and relaxes in a steely state of selfpossession.  The second half of Back Up focuses on sounds more closely linked to Sebo K's milieu, with fidgets and tweaks attuned to the times. GummiHz and Marco Resmann represent the Mobilee sound with deep, busy tracks devoted to house more as a guiding principle than as a prescriptive form, and an Âme remix (of Ferrer & Sydenham Inc.) closes with a sumptuous run of handdrums and synthesized sighs given to expansion more than extraction. It's house that sounds perfectly at home wandering through new provinces. "}