{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10295/homepage_large.51001ecc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Botch","title":"American Nervoso","text":"  In the course of their almost tenyear run, Botch would cover Carl Orff's \"O Fortuna\", from the opera Carmina Burana, and the B52's 1978 debut single \"Rock Lobster\", an untouchably weird ode to surf guitar and faked animal noises. In return, Botch would gain a kind of novelty calling card something to remember them by. This 10cent devil's bargain or trivia joke, I guess has paid off: American Nervoso is the second of three Botch reissues Hydra Head has slated, a stunningly kind treatment for a posthardcore outfit from the Northwest corner of the country that put out only two fulllengths between 1993 and their demise in 2002. No one who has heard either of Botch's two covers will be shocked to learn that American Nervoso, when originally released in 1998, sounded less like opera or surfpop than noisy posthardcore. It's a sound they shared at the time with labelmates Converge, Cave In, and Isis. Botch listened to more metal than the latter two and less than the former, and so they skipped both Cave In's scrappy emotional martyrdom and Isis's doom canter in favor of a vaguely mathy roar more mosh parts, and fewer blast beats. Think contemporaries the Locust, but slower, or descendents in Some Girls, Daughters, the Now, or even Pissed Jeansconfrontational, noise proficient. Botch formed just after the year punk broke, which was also the time crossover died, and though it took them another few years to release their Hydra Head debut, American Nervoso's original slate of nine songs is a kind of primer for any number of sounds underway in the decade. If the opener \"Hutton's Great Heat Engine\" was a Born Against update, a reintegration of that band's ironic hardcore with the tough guy metal it had been created in reaction to, \"John Woo\" was of a piece with the Californiabased disquiet coined by the Swing Kids or Drive Like Jehu. The portentouslynamed \"Dali's Praying Mantis\" acknowledged the artrock side of things, sounded like the VSS or Shotmaker, and flashed the pretentiousness that also led the band to cover \"O Fortuna\" and include a maudlin piano outro to the otherwise onfire \"Oma\". Add the breakdown from \"Dead for a Minute\" and the Moss Icon spokenword self pity from the bridge of \"Spitting Black\" and there's no important strain of postMinor Threat hardcore Botch didn't get around to.  Hard not to wonder why Botch is being reissued so soon after their demise, or why them as opposed to any number of bands they played shows with, stole riffs from, or vice versa. If they had more catholic tastes than their peers, they were also more scattershot and, if recollection serves, less loved in the fanatical way that Cave In or Converge were. The inclusion of four alternate versions three of them demos and one song available elsewhere (\"Stupid Me\") doesn't exactly swing things one way or another. But there are worse places to start or end than with American Nervoso like, say, \"Rock Lobster\". Try \"Hives,\" the record's original last song: a new part spinning in every ten seconds, the riffs stacking up like nine years of practice tapes. One thing Botch were never short on was ideas.  "}