{"label":" Eastern Developments","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10298/homepage_large.cad680d3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liz Colville","artist":"Leyode","title":"Fascinating Tininess","text":"  The pretty cover art of Fascinating Tininess, Georgiareared duo Leyode's debut, sketches a sort of brand identity in the same watercolor hues as the songs, balladic bits of Piaf and 1990s ambient streamed together with aged instrumental remnants, piano cascades, and violin ascents looped, lopped, and severed. The songs wispy, whimsical, yet acerbic and beatdriven are often too patchy and piecemeal. \"Isabelle\" takes Laurel Wells' unique vocals and pours them into a vertiginous, murky waterslide of stock drumbeats and backwardtraveling string arrangements. In this messy attempt at accessible ambience the vocals get lost, and the man at the decks, Yusuke Hama, appears impatient, choking gorgeous piano parts before their resolution, forcing all his bold colors into one cloying bouquet. Other songs have more promise: \"Clementine\" incorporates the brassy female vocal harmonies the Dirty Projectors have lately been using, but in Leyode's case, Wells is dragged through more beatslapping muck and the sound of, perhaps, malfunctioning Energizer bunnies. Still, the vocals are lovely enough to carry the whole thing an a capella part pealing through a hubbub of rabid electronics. \"Dominique\", which follows with no break, sees this jarring tapestry through, borrowing a male chorus for an even more fullbodied gust of polyphony. This time, the rhythm creatively skirts around the voices, using more of the tinselly industrial effects of Aphex Twin and inserting a couple of twinkling keyboard notes. But at the close of the track are evermore ladyvocal loops, a flavorless ingredient tossed in needlessly. On many songs, beneath thick layers of chords are hints of interesting sounds bitcrushed noodlings and delicate reverbed drumbeats but nothing much comes of these, giving the tracks an improvisational feel; it's only the vocals that are elegantly timed and rehearsed, and half the time, when they're given room to breathe, they carry their own weight as well as the heft of words hummed, mumbled, or merely thought. \"Soft or Gentle?\" once again brings us flashes of ornate melodic lines from voice and violin, but again these fade into repetition and dull, dizzying loop.  The concoctions are often just too confusing, such as the nice little key peddlings of \"Elizabeth Chateau\", with its distorted voicemail messages and weak, airy vocals. The surprising gem of \"Eilene\", an (I would hope) accidental Sneaker Pimps tribute, pushes and shoves its rhythm and string samples against the ear, persevering until the pointless interlude of flutes that almost ruins things, but for the eventual benighted close of analog synth and the return of the sticky, leaden beat. The songs too often make light of pretty/ugly coincidences, hoping they work when in fact it's hard to hear them together. Dissonances fight for ear time and the vocals, more often than not, are left to be a fruity, floral perfume, which quickly dissipates if it's not first overpowered.  "}