{"label":" Permanent Records","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10297/homepage_large.68d41056.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Warhammer 48K","title":"An Ethereal Oracle","text":" An Ethereal Oracle the second record from Missouri's Warhammer 48K and first for new Chicago label and store Permanent Records is every bit an apocalypse record. On \"Track One\", American general Ludwig Voninski speaks from and for \"what was once called the United States Midwest\": \"At this time, we are unsure whether we've been hit by bombs or ultraviolet rays...At this time, we ask everyone to pray as if there were a god,\" Voninski says flatly. He signs off; zombie moans mix with the bloodcurdling cries of the living; a warped bass line and piercing guitar noise smother Karpheavy drums. Two minutes later, everything collapses. If the end of the world is this frazzled, fuckedup, and fun, where's the dotted line? Despite its artpunk undercurrents and political overtones, though, An Ethereal Oracle largely for the better doesn't take its explorations of the end too seriously. In fact, it sounds much like the record Wayne Campbell and Garth Algar might have made this decade had they found the right picture books about apocalyptic prophecies, the right influences (Hawkwind, a scratched and warped Crass LP, Abruptum), the right friends, and a revelatory strain of pot in the late 1990s. Five total dudes with names like Ram Shackle, Juan Turbulance, and SLAG, Warhammer 48K gets to the apocalypse talk early: \"Save the last rave/ For the year 2012,\" they chant over ghost chords and ritualistic drums on the second track, referencing the year of predicted Mayan ruin. They leave it alone. Rather, much of An Etheral Oracle feels like psychedelic escapism, or about pursuing the slipstream of a song until the promise of demise fades like a fable. These forays occasionally tighten into perfect instrumental anthems, as with \"Track Three\". A bit like Shellac and Polvo, the riffs are big but the rhythms are bigger, setting up a sort of nocturnal highspeed chase that drops suddenly into silence, as though from an unseen cliff. That's part of Oracle's ostensible attentiondeficit disorder, which is both its blessing and its curse: On one hand, Warhammer 48K never gets mired in its own conceits, and this \"apocalypse record\" musically varied, flipping from improvised doom quakes reminiscent of Spain's Orthodox on \"Knife Hits\" to the dancing days acidic acoustics of \"Track Five\" feels much too adventurous to be defeatist or resigned to destruction. When the end comes, as it does when the instruments on \"Track Nine\" get so loud they start to crackle, it sucks only because it interrupts a crucial jam. Remember, after the first two tracks, there's no explicit mention of the apocalypse, even if there is a constant sense of teetering on a brink. The field recordings that close number two crickets chirping, birds warbling, a mammal maybe moving in the distance are slowly invaded and, eventually, smothered altogether. Just don't be surprised if, given so many ideas in a 44minute space, you sometimes want Warhammer 48K to hit you a bit harder, to take more shape, to come with a little more finesse. Lightning quick \"Knife Hits\" has a lithe midsection lifted by two guitars scraping past one another, skipping over the cracks in the rhythm like survivors making haste. With another take, the grooves could be tighter, and the action would be tenser. As is, though, it's just a preparation for the track's perfect, brutal ending. Thankfully, that's an exception to the rule: Like the world or not, one hopes An Ethereal Oracle keeps right on turning.  "}