{"label":" Rekids","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10312/homepage_large.459f9cb7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rekids Compilation One","text":"  English dance music hasn't had the best couple of years. Once sitting comfortably at the top of the heap, reinforced by imperial brands like Global Underground and colonial dominance of outposts like Ibiza, entrenched UK styles like progressive house have seen their cultural capital waning throughout the decade. Ibiza's hippest clubs have fallen to the techno anschluss; a Fabric headliner stands as good a chance of being French or German as local. Even Kompakt now has a London residency at Plastic People, a club better known for dubstep and broken beat parties. UKoriented dance music media has shifted as well: Resident Advisor, once a comfortably Anglocentric publication, has become increasingly Continental in scope in recent years, and even Mixmag, the UK clubbers' bible, has gradually adopted a more cosmopolitan approach. I'm ambivalent about the shift: shed no tears for progressive house, but a monoculture is a monoculture, after all, and the increasing ubiquity of Germaninspired minimal house and techno (or Frenchinspired \"bloghouse\") is feeling increasingly like a culdesac as copycats and wildcatters flood the market. But the implosion has had positive fallout: indeed, one need look no farther than Mixmag's April \"Best of British\" issue to see how the decommissioning of the old guard has made room for an eclectic array of emerging voices: boldface names included Optimo, Shackleton, Klaxons, grime, and the \"techno nu breed\" as well as more predictably commercial propositions like Seamus Haji. Enter London's Rekids label. Helmed by Matt Edwards, better known as Radio Slave (and, occasionally, Rekid), it might be the UK's strongest label at the moment, precisely for the way it's made overtures to Continental dancefloors while preserving a more traditionally British sensibility via echoes of acid house. Rekids completes its tripod footing by planting itself firmly if at a somewhat odd angle in Chicago and Detroit, electronic music's most hallowed stomping grounds. And it does all this without seeming either too clever or too reverent: it simply churns out banger after reliable banger. Rekids' approach to the 4/4 format is as populist as it is experimental: even DJMag.com, hardly the most progressive of publications, nominated Edwards and Rekids in three categories in its own \"Best of British\" campaign. Rekids Compilation One celebrates the label's first year of operation with a doubleCD collection of the best tracks and remixes from Rekids' first 17 vinylonly releases. Disc one, which highlights the Asides, opens with Rekid's \"Next Stop Chicago\", but the reference is far from purist. Rather than a tracky, bythenumbers house cut, \"Chicago\" is a slowly grinding cycle of ringing guitars, tightly looped strings, jazz flute, and truncated soul vocals; a sluggish 110bpm at the very most, it underscores the extent that Rekids' music, if not its buzz, flirts with the intentional misreadings of revivalist disco like Lindstrøm, Prins Thomas, and DJ Harvey. It also highlights the unlikelihood that Rekids' songs have become bona fide hits in underground and middleground clubs: with its hypnotic churn and folky overtones, \"Chicago\" is undeniably (and addictively) odd, and the rest of the selections follow suit.  Toby Tobias' \"A Close Shave\", with its clockwork cowbell, jaunty arpeggios, and overtones of Metro Area, is one of the comp's more straightforward cuts; likewise, Audiofly & Paul Harris' beefy \"Miscalate\" doesn't veer too far from the melodic electrohouse template of Booka Shade or Patrick Chardronnet. But the rest of disc one is more esoteric. An understated sense of humor abounds, from the jokily spooky synth lead on Luke Solomon's \"Ghouls\" to the drunken breakdown of Radio Slave's \"Secret Base\", which features frequencies highpitched enough to scatter a pack of dogs. If there's a single defining characteristic here, it's probably the bleep unsurprising, perhaps, given that the label's first release was Radio Slave's \"My Bleep\". The track slathers an insistent squarewave melody over midrange synths with the feel of shirred sandpaper. It's just this side of strident, but Edwards' command of techno dynamics keeps it bracing throughout. Likewise, Mr. G's twitchy \"E.C.G.'ed\", Discemi's shreddedacid \"Von Wright Code\", and Spencer Parker's ringmodcrazy \"Beautiful Noise\" underscore the impression that many of Rekids' melodies are cribbed from the Intergalactic Robot Songbook.  If the mark of a good A&R strategy is a catalogue full of strong tracks, then the mark of a great one is a series of remixes that might be even better, and disc two doesn't disappoint on this front: Radio Slave, Quiet Village, Brontosaurus, Jesse Rose, Claude VonStroke, Alter Ego's Roman Flügel, and Ewan Pearson and Al Usher's Partial Arts all turn in remixes that are at least equal to the originals. Again, disco turns out to be one of the cornerstones of Rekids' sound. (I have always tended to think of the label as focusing principally on house and techno, but one of the joys of Rekids Compilation One is the way it shows how the imprint can mean different things to different people.) Prins Thomas and Brontosaurus both offer chunky, wonky versions of \"A Close Shave\", while Quiet Village's mix of \"Dave's Sex Bits\" is so achingly slow it sounds like a chopped and screwed take on cosmic disco.  The best of the rest showcase Rekids in clubconquering mode. If you've been to a nightclub in the last year whether in Berlin, London, or New York, and whether sponsored by the Fader or Resident Advisor you've probably heard these cuts. Jesse Rose, often mentioned in the same breath as \"fidgethouse\" proponents like Switch and Sinden, tackles Rekid's \"Next Stop Chicago\", which feels appropriate: the original owes more than a moderate debt to Rose's own soulsampling house numbers for the Dubsided label. Likewise, given the Bay Area's historic ties to the UK house scene, it makes sense for Claude VonStroke to give Solomon's \"Ghouls\" an aggressive, shoomping beatdown, stray blips and jungleinspired bass drops zooming hither and yon.  One of Rekids' strengths in terms of creating its reputation its aura, if you will turns out to be its uncanny knack for playing with dance music's hidden narratives. So Roman Flügel turns Radio Slave's \"My Bleep\" into an oldschool trance epic suffused with cathedralsized reverb, exactly the kind of thing that Edwards does when he gets a remix commission. Edwards' own reworks here prove him to be one of dance music's best remixers of the moment (no matter that he borrows a fair bit of his strategy from Carl Craig). Radio Slave's \"Panorama Garage Remix\" of Matt O'Brien's aptly titled \"Serotone\" makes explicit the connection between New York's house history and Berlin's techno present by dropping an easy, jacking beat, drawing out the tension and teasing the brain and body's most hedonismprone pleasure receptors with a synth lead that zigzags like cartoon lightning. And his shuffling, bleepy there's that word again update of Mr. G's \"E.C.G.'ed\" takes its emotional cues from a spool of live electrical wire, stretching out towards the horizon in a gesture of unmitigated yearning, hissing and spitting all the while. "}