{"label":" Eenie Meenie","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10309/homepage_large.888f0f3f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Scissors For Lefty","title":"Underhanded Romance","text":"  Scissors for Lefty are one of those unfortunate bands primarily identified as underground, though not by choice. There's nothing about the San Franciscan quintet that doesn't scream out heavy FM airplay, and on sophomore album Underhanded Romance, the band further revs up the musicformasses tropes present on their 2005 debut Bruno. While the carrot on a stick remains close thanks to primo touring gigs with bands like Arctic Monkeys and Dirty Pretty Things, most of Romance features the group hesitantly picking their poison, whether it be revived new wave partying or affected Britpop. A quick glance at Scissors' soundalikes signals plenty of red flags. The Killers, Ok Go, The Bravery, and boring, latterday Hot Hot Heat crop up in many tracks here, mostly due to frontman Bryan Garza's excitable vocal tics. Whether croaking a nasally mouthful of lyrics à la Steve Bays or putting on the sexy crooning airs of Jarvis Cocker, his proactive melodies grab the reigns on every track, bloating most of them into anthems. Occasionally the band successfully summons these big moments, like \"Save it Cory\"'s sunny splash of \"whoa's\" or the palmmuted power pop frustration of \"Next to Argyle\". However, the good times can't keep rolling throughout Romance, and the supersized party tricks quickly wear thin. The band spends most of this album trying to get you on the dancefloor, shoving inane basslines and happygolucky, outofbreath maxims in your face. Still sitting? Fine, these guys can get sleazier. A new, needlessly jackedup version of Bruno's \"Ghetto Ways\" annoys with its halfhatched electro comeons, making the listener wish the band never purchased a synthesizer, while opener \"Nickels & Dimes\" strikes glam rock poses with disappointingly flaccid riffs.  Ideally these guys should cut their dancerock shtick and embrace their more wistful, melodic side. \"Marsha\" apes Cocker's lovestruck sighs pretty impressively, with Garza attempting to remain wry and catchy in spite of his own sentimentality: \"Christ, I wish to find someone for sunsets.../ Every holiday I wish for that.\" Our party animal even turns a bit sour on moody midtempo track \"X's Are Forever\", bemoaning an ex over a languishing bassline. In Romance's dance/dour dichotomy, Garza sounds more appropriate throwing stones at bedroom windows than throwing down on the dancefloor as a cocksure, testosteroneaddled lothario. Fortunately, the album's secondhalf pathos restores the charisma albeit charisma borrowed from indie's biggest cults of personality that the initial postpunkdancerevivalhyphenated bullshit nearly pisses away. "}