{"label":" Mill Pond","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10313/homepage_large.8d1c4bd7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Jason Holstrom","title":"The Thieves of Kailua","text":" The song \"Vamos a la Playa\" fell on the second half of the eponymous 2004 debut from giddy Seattle electromaximalists United State of Electronica. Over the three years since the group's sole release to date, U.S.E. contributor Jason Holstrom has bided his time taking that suggestion to heart. Inspired by a trip to the Hawaiian islands followed by a few years in the studio (appropriately dubbed \"The Cabana\"), Holstrom's latest flight of fancy is The Thieves of Kailua, a musicological experiment as socksandsandals 50th state getaway, told with the instrumental precision of a native session man. Although arguments could be made for Kailua's precursors in smart, luxuriant flipfloppop the Beach Boys' languid, sunblanched harmonies, Ry Cooder's indigenous guitarrock, the High Llamas' pithhelmet ethnography Hawaii Holstrom's songwriting and engineering keep the record from becoming a wellaccompanied postholiday slideshow. The tale is basic (love, Hawaiianstyle) but as any travel agent or sunburned weekender will tell you, it's the journey itself that counts. \"Crystal Green\" opens the record with Holstrom gazing out of his plane window, noting the ocean's color. His weightless, echoed voice meshes with the thick swells of richlyrecorded instrumentation around it: rolling bass drums, a guitar twanging a melody that recalls a TV Western, a whipcrack vocal effect straight from a Martin Denny or Esquivel record fade as the sound of a twoprop plane (a \"real\" plane, the liners indicate) fades into the horizon. A lapsteel guitar provides the atmosphere for \"Hawaii She Calls\", a latealbum track that marks Holstrom's island conversion, and closer \"HulaBye\" is wordless acapella recalling the Pet Sounds box set extras. In between, however, Holstrom recalls with verve a pretty eventful vacation: he's mugged, falls in love with a girl, and does significant amounts of lounging about. We hear what sounds like the resort concierge on \"WelcomeClouds Roll in\", informing us \"the ukelele band is gonna play, just like they do it every single day.\" Later, the saxaccompanied Greasestyle \"Under Setting Sun\" is a lovers' duet, on which Holstrom is accompanied by his paramour (\"All there is to do is sit and dream of her/ And I'll dream of him too\"), but sings alone the chorus, the giddy realization that \"I'm falling in love.\" The fiveminute title suite contains Kailua's other significant occurrrence: after experiencing the opposite of hospitality, and describing the perpetrators, Holstrom laments: \"Now do I look like the purist tourist/ Look at my skin so white/ To the thieves of the island I ain't no native, but that don't make it right.\"  Holstrom's wayfaring status on Kailua highlights the most significant connection between U.S.E. and his current conceit. Both aestheticallydivergent ventures rely on preciselyexecuted highconcept fantasy: U.S.E. was the work of some mashedtogether Seattleite indie rockers pretending to be a German electrooutfit, and Kailua is a personal travelogue with a regionalized soundtrack. The fact that both records start sounding a bit samey after a few listens (the vocoder and uke have one thing in common: they both grate in large doses) indicates that Holstrom might just have a career here: making oneoff, pleasureseeking concept albums between production sessions for other artists. If his subsequent safaris are the enjoyable diversions the last two have been, why stop? "}