{"label":" Sub Pop / Lil' Chief","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10323/homepage_large.63bd0ead.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"The Brunettes","title":"Structure & Cosmetics","text":"  The Brunettes may or may not have more fun than such recent peroxide victims as Posh Spice, Pete Doherty, or Gavin Rossdale (um, surely you remember Mr. Gwen Stefani?), but on their first two, importonly albums, the New Zealand indie pop outfit showed themselves to be indisputably cuter. Led by founding duo Jonathan Bree and Heather Mansfield, the Aucklandbased group first brought their Beach Boys and Phil Spectorinfluenced songs to the U.S. in support of the Shins in 2005, and return trips have followed with Rilo Kiley and Clap Your Hands Say Yeah. The Brunettes' Sub Pop debut, Structure & Cosmetics, downplays the sugary sweetness of its predecessors. It's also one of the year's more accomplished, sonically detailed works of baroque pop. This is an elaborate studio concoction, bursting with marimba, glockenspiel, banjo, trumpet, woodwinds, and keyboards in addition to the usual guitar, bass and drums. Handclaphappy opener \"Brunettes Against Bubblegum Youth\" (i.e., \"B.A.B.Y.\") flaunts its nearly Polyphonic Spreesize arrangement, beginning with eerie synths, guitar harmonics, horns, and a choral \"ahh\" before morphing into a sunshine shoutalong with a goforbroke Abbey Road guitar riff. For a song ostensibly championing bubblegum clichés, it's also subtly offbeat: \"When we're in the spaceship, I know it must be kismet,\" Mansfield cheers. The track merges gradually into \"Stereo (Mono Mono)\", which splitpans Bree and Mansfield's voices and lets them playfully bemoan their separation. Here, the odd acoustic guitar changes, disjointed piano, and cartoonish background voices could've come from Paul McCartney's eccentric 1971 album Ram. Bree and Mansfield formed the Brunettes in 1998, reputedly from the ashes of a shortlived romance, and much of the band's music plays off the chemistry between the two. Where their previous albums might lean toward Greasestyle boygirl interplay, Structure & Cosmetics more often evokes the cowboypsych duets of Lee Hazelwood and Nancy Sinatra. Excellent first single \"Her Hairagami Set\" selfreferentially epitomizes the band's mix of kid's stuff and rococo; as detectiveshow piano and additional instrumentation fold up into their own kind of origami, Bree and Mansfield trade lyrics about a girl who buys a QVCpushed hair makeover kit that supposedly applies the Japanese art to coiffure. The closing title track hearkens back to Hazelwood and Sinatra again, though its tumbleweed spaciousness and rusty harmonica owe a bigger debt to Ennio Morricone.  \"When I sing, I like to sound American,\" Bree explains on 2002 debut Holding Hands, Feeding Ducks words he continues to live by on the latest album. Like seminal Kiwi bands the Clean or the Bats, the Brunettes are steeped in U.S. pop and rock. Bree's plainspoken vocal on \"Credit Card Mail Order\" splits the difference between Lou Reed and Jonathan Richman, while moving from \"Crimson and Clover\" guitars to schmaltzy '50s harmonies. The Brunettes make the anxiety of influence into inconspicuous jokes: \"Stop acting like some modern Don Juan, drawling lines out of rock'n'roll songs,\" Mansfield teases on \"Wall Poster Star\". It's also easy to hear where the Brunettes fit in beside their Sub Pop brethren. \"Small Town Crew\" begins with unassuming acoustic guitar that could twist into a Shins song, though here we get Scientology references and lush, reverbdrenched orchestration. The Brunettes don't yet stack up to their wellworn influences, but the ornate studio production and knotty lyrics on Structure & Cosmetics make it an impressive entry nonetheless. Still, it's a little disappointing that the band didn't let more of their past cutesiness shine through, even if that might've resulted in a more divisive fulllength. Where 2004 album Mars Loves Venus quoted the Spice Girls and talked of killing Cupid, the latest does that pesky \"maturing\" thing, avoiding outright dorkiness except on cutesy intergalactic love song \"If You Were Alien\". The band's last U.S. tour included an unreleased number dedicated to MaryKate and Ashley Olsen, which the band played wearing masks of the Full House twins. The album makes us work a lot harder for our fun. It'll be a shame if the Brunettes finally catch on in America at the expense of what makes them unique; it'll be an even bigger shame if they get lost in the indiepop crowd. Darlings, don't you go and bleach your hair.  "}