{"label":" Ba Da Bing!","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10316/homepage_large.27c2a40a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Patrick Cleandenim","title":"Baby Comes Home","text":"  Ba Da Bing, which has shown a recent tendency toward the young and retrodignified (Beirut, Essie Jain), finds its next constituent in 22year old Lawrence, Kansas expat and Bobby Darin aspirant Patrick Cleandenim. His first LP under this moniker (his parents named him Patrick Clendenin Roberts), Baby Comes Home, was recorded throughout 2005 with significant help from enrollees in the University of Kansas' music department. Cleandenim recruited dozens of Jayhawks to serve as his backing band, and Baby's lush brass and strings reflect it. Studio time was tight, with recording sessions taking place during the graveyard shift only appropriate for a record with several songs that lurk through the darker side of the high life. The album opens in grand fashion, with the title track's cinematic fanfare shrill, rising strings, a vibraphone, the thwack of a snare drum giving way to the cocky brass that carries the song. Sitting down his martini to sing, Cleandemin cuts right to the lyrical chase: \"I saw you walkin' with a vampire last night.\" Two songs later, \"Cognac and Caviar\" matches that portentous extravagance \"Mack the Knife\" from the first person perspective its chorus recommending with all due nonchalance to \"put poison in his Cognac and carry on.\" That last song's verse melody is worthy of a separate mention; it highlights Baby's slightbutattractive musical range, which thankfully pushes out further from the Squirrel Nut Zippers retread suggested early on. Simply put, \"Cognac\" (and later, \"Until You Said I'm Gone\" and the wonderful, classicHollywood number \"Days Without Rain\") is dinnertheatre soul of the 5th Dimension variety, its melody sung in the crisp, tight harmonic style of the 1960s vocal group. But with the capriciousness of a kid with endless options at his command, the song temporarily switches gears for its chorusto a peppy romp that would make the Scissor Sisters' Jake Shears take notice, as would the sashaying \"Rocket to the Moon\". It's overthetop camp that finds the overlap between burlesque and elevator pop, and damn if Cleandenim doesn't pull it off with verve to spare. Cleandemin brushes up against classic soul throughout Baby. \"So You Think You're Gonna Live Forever\" feels like a it could have been written by Burt Bacharach for Dionne Warwick, and the deeplyechoed \"Whispers Only Hurt Them\" recalls the Velvelettes' 1964 Motown single \"He Was Really Sayin' Somethin'\". Most impressively, the piano shuffle from \"Gone\" is lifted from the Dramatics' 1972 Stax hit \"What You See Is What You Get\" (itself a Temptations cop), and injected with a Bossa Nova flair.  These songs, and Baby on the whole, owe a clear debt to an earlier age of refined crooner pop and elegant soul, yet Cleandenim performs them with the ramshackle ease of, well, a kid with a bunch of talent and a massive supporting cast. He's also skillful enough to introduce a palpable sense of disquiet to even the record's most graceful passages, indicating an aptitude not only for adapation, but also unforced drama. Odds are, he'll adopt a different guise for his next outing his current incarnation follows a stint in an indie band and another as a singersongwriter and it wouldn't be at all surprising to see this musical methodactor nail another role. "}