{"label":" Hickory","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10331/homepage_large.b6a7baba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Hottest State OST","text":" Long before Zach Braff existed as our Hollywood archnemesis, the writerdirectorsoundtracker of our worst dreams, there existed a predecessor, a protoBraff if you will, named Ethan Hawke. After playing the definitive slacker role in Reality Bites, Hawke went on to branch out into the type of diverse résumé that earns an actor equal amounts scorn and neglect: quitting the biz to go back to college Rivers Cuomostyle, penning a novel, and getting into directing. Hawke indulged so many side interests that I was downright shocked not to find a band in his Wikipedia entry; I guess I had conflated him with fellow travelers Keanu Reeves and Jared Leto. But now, with the soundtrack of the film version of his first novel, The Hottest State, Hawke is finally living up to the last part of the bargain, putting his music taste on public display. And...it's terrible. The Hottest State soundtrack features a roster of acts old and newish that would draw the envy of Cmdr. Braff: Bright Eyes, Feist, Cat Power, Willie Nelson, Emmylou Harris, etc. But rather than culling the castaway Bsides from this posse, Hawke organizes a tribute session to none other than Jesse Harris that's right, the Jesse Harris. You may best know Harris as Norah Jones' guitar player, but he has a solo career in his own right, playing exceptionally harmless jazzy folk/folky jazz in the vein of James Taylor. So basically, Ethan Hawke (and all these other artists, apparently) have all the cuttingedge and adventurous preferences of, say, my Mom's bunko group. I mean, Jesus Christ Superstar, this music is boring. I've always found it hard to hate on the phenomenon of Norah Jones, because dentists' offices need new cuts too. But to find people I respect, like Chan Marshall or Brad Mehldau or M. Ward, sinking to this milquetoast level is a bit of a wet willy, even if I shouldn't be that shocked. Nothing about the material covered on this OST suggests why Harris is worthy of such indepth love: Every song is sparse and languid, with no distinctive melodies or memorable lyrics or really anything to distinguish itself. Like Jones, Harris (who has three tracks of his own on the disc) seems best at merely establishing a mood, one that's mellow and pleasant but wallflowery through and through perfect for a dinner party or a book club, where you want to fill the awkward silences with the musical equivalent of a screensaver.  Whether it's perfect for Hawke's film, I don't know; full disclosure, I haven't seen it, and don't really plan to. I mean: \"A young actor from Texas tries to make it in New York while struggling in his relationship with a beautiful singer/songwriter?\" Yeah...no. But apropos of the title, there is something humid and warm about the entire record, though it's entirely possible that reaction is due to writing this review in a Chicago August. Things are pretty hazy and acoustic and whispery throughout, with only Bright Eyes and the Black Keys bothering with drums and amps. Bright Eyes' track, \"Big Old House\", is the standout here, stretching the song to a quavering Arcade Fire scope that's only lacking a string section for true liftoff.  Far less enthralling are contributions from Feist, M. Ward, Cat Power, and other indie folksters, most of which are merely vocal exercises over spare piano or guitar that come off either intimate or tossedoff, depending on your mood. That their efforts cozy up so seamlessly with the smoothsoft tones of Norah Jones and Argentinean singer Rocha is a bit disconcerting, putting the lie once again to the idea that there's really any significant sonic walls between NuVerve/Grammycertified Charmin and the preeminent singersongwriters of the indie world. As such, it's an act of unintentional indiefan bubblebursting as effective as a Music from the O.C. collection or Braff's most notorious soundtrack efforts, maybe even more Garden State than Garden State in its senseless damage to the forces of elitism. Way to go, Hawke, show that pretender who occupied the lovably rumpled renaissance slacker throne first.  "}