{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10332/homepage_large.2f402836.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Montag","title":"Going Places","text":"  You hear about an album with guests on nearly every track and expectations usually drop a bit. Variety is good and teamwork is a virtue; still, not many alltimers have \"featuring\" after every song title, and sometimes having more people around seems like a compensation for a lack of ideas. On his third album, Going Places, FrenchCanadian producer Antoine Bédard, the creative engine driving Montag, makes serial collaboration sound like a good thing. Bédard is working in an area of music ambitious tweeleaning laptop pop that seems made for smaller doses. Even when the songs are good, you don't necessarily expect to listen to a record like Going Places all the way through. So having new voices and a different texture or two cropping up helps to differentiate the tracks. And the guests are carefully integrated into Montag's production framework, so the end result is never haphazard. The guestheavy record could also be up to Bédard knowing his limitations. He records his quiet, sometimes whispered voice well, imparting enough reverb to disguise its limited range. But still, the expressive possibilities are limited, which is why it's nice to see what others can do with Bédard's oftenclever production. And the record certainly sounds nice. He's previously arranged strings for M83, so he has a good understanding of how pieces fit together, and a sense of what to leave out. There's no feeling here that however many dozen tracks available on computer need necessarily be used; the music has room the breathe. Speaking of M83, that project's Anthony Gonzales guests on the grand opening statement \"I Have Sound\", which sounds like a Who title and happens to be one of the album's better tracks. Blending his voice with Bédard's to create a pillowsoft texture with a cathedral's reverberations, Gonzales also adds his characteristic spacey keyboards to the an acoustic guitarheavy mix. The blending of natural and electronic instruments, along with the lush soundstage, call to mind Air, though of course it doesn't come over like it was mixed and mastered in a highend studio. Still, \"I Have Sound\" holds its own as a sonic treat, and Gonzales' contributions are key.  Other collaborators include Owen Pallett of Final Fantasy (vocals on the wannabe Bacharach \"Softness, I Forgot Your Name\"), Victoria Legrand of Beach House (her voice swirled through loping psychballad \">[Plus Grand Que]\"), and Au Revoir Simone, with a cameo on electropopleaning \"No One Else\". The latter two spots are pretty minimal you can barely hear Legrand, and Au Revoir Simone only stick around for a verse which unfortunately allows the songs to retreat to a pleasant but bland place. But enough moments like the sweetly busy, miniCaribou confection \"Mechanical Kids\", with backing vocals by Amy Millan of Stars, keep the record on the right course. The closing title track allegedly features music from 70 musicians spanning 15 countries, submitted in response to general callout for sound from Bédard. That it doesn't sound appreciably different from one of his solo productions says something about his discipline as a producer, and also how tightly he clings to his vision.  "}