{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10328/homepage_large.81df46e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Northern State","title":"Can I Keep This Pen?","text":"  All respect to Northern State, the threepiece whitegirl rap group named after Long Island's Northern State Parkway, which runs through their hometown. Half Hollow Hills High School West schoolmates, they became Northern State via a 2003 demo that became an EP that became the fulllength Dying in Stereo. They garnered Beastie Boys comparisons for being Jewish, New Yawk, and white, and for jacking the same freeform, callandresponse sense of rhythm (and humor) from the Funky Four plus One. But where the early Beastie Boys were barelyeducated teenagers more interested in Led Zeppelin's groupies than they were their fellow man, Northern State followed the lead of their fellow Nassau County natives Public Enemy and rapped about who they voted for in the 2000 presidential election. They did not have mic skills as skills have been defined in hiphop postRakim; and you got the acute sense they didn't listen to much hiphop postBeastie Boys. To this site, their combination of liberal university politics and retrograde microphone technique was so obvious as to be offensive, and in response reviewer Michael Idov gave Dying in Stereo a score two tenths of a point less than one. Like Luscious Jackson, their 1990s predecessors as New York's designated female Beastie Boys protégées, Northern State exposed hiphop as a form as adaptable to whiteness and the suburbs as it was to countrywide worsening urban conditions and rising rates of black incarceration. This is something people who've grown up with rap music know without being told. That Northern State were basically bad rappers as were Luscious Jackson when they tried, and as is, say, Uffie or any number of other downtownaffiliated mic testers was only one of the many signs that they weren't really rappers at all. On the fourtracked HipHop You Haven't Heard demo/EP/album teaser, there was the shock of them spitting so sincere (\"Twice they boast about their 'optimism,' and I love them for putting it so literally,\" wrote Robert Christgau) and the pleasure of parsing the personas: the ringleader Hesta Prynn; Spero, gently foulmouthed; Sprout, DJ and chief beatrider. Major label leap All City toned everything but the sincerity down, including the punchlines, and the hyperaudible enthusiasm that carried the whole enterprise sounded more like queasy confidence. They copped more expensive production and as a result didn't really sound like themselves, and they were the ones everyone liked in the first place.  Three years later they're out of their Columbia contract, Adrock's behind the boards (alongside Shitake Monkey's Chuck Brody), and their third fulllength is titled Can I Keep This Pen? The phrase comes from possecut \"Mother May I?\", on which the three MCs trade lines and smack syllables, nodding at the protorap that birthed them. \"Complex times call for complex rhymes ya'll,\" says Prynn, \"A lime to a lemon yo a lemon to lime.\" Elsewhere Sprout raps \"Forget the thruway, cause we rep the parkway.\" On \"Sucka Mothafucker\" they shout out global warming: \"Got a brand new car shoulda bought the hybrid/ Cause you could afford it and I wish that I did/ Change your mind and all that you stand for/ Put Obama in your life and bring back Al Gore.\" Not clear enough for you? Try \"Mothatfucka\"'s massively offkey bridge, where the three of them warble \"This one's going out the Democrats/ 2004 ya'll came real wack/ But now that we got some real candidates/ Can we please come correct in 2008?\"  That Northern State will interrupt a beatdown on maltliquor drinking fakegangsters from Weehawken in order to endorse political aspirants is not news. More startling is the fact that nearly a full half of their tracks \"Better Already\", a Bloodhound Gangsounding anthem about how much they like each other, and \"Good Distance\", a Breedersesque seether take Luscious Jackson's eclectic indiealt template as their own, sinking the beat amid pulses of synthy guitar. And they sing more than ever: on single \"Away Away\", on the electroclash bouncer \"Cold War\", and on the slowjammed \"Run of the Road\", which could have been written by TLC.  A lot of things going on here, then, often at the same time. No coincidence that Northern State's profile has been highest in New York and in rock critic circles elsewhere, people can't relate. And anyone with a stake in hiphop over the last twenty years will notice how rarely Northern State do right by a genre from which they borrow so freely. Calling them wack MCs isn't saying much though they're the only MCs of their kind, competing only against themselves. No wonder they make music that sounds like it was made in a void: heart in the right place, perforated with offkey singing and Cgrade rapping. Who could do their thing better? "}