{"label":" Southern Lord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10338/homepage_large.17fa11d4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Sunn O)))","title":"Oracle EP","text":"  A couple of years back, nobody had an inkling our favorite drone duo would become Artforum regulars. Yet Black One, Sunn O)))'s crowning achievement, initiated a fascinating crossover, and Greg Anderson and Stephen O'Malley's subsequent stream of releases both Sunn O))) and non along with O'Malley's ongoing art and theatre collaborations, solidified and extended things beyond the influence of a New York Times Magazine piece. (The 2005 album also provided U.S. black metal \"outfits\" Xasthur and Leviathan/Lurker of Chalice with their biggest audience to date, leading to a number of other, very different tremors in the underground. Note, for instance, that Xasthur's forthcoming Defective Epitaph will be Malefic's second for Hydra Head.) Of all of Sunn O)))'s work with visual artists, the most important and ongoing is O'Malley's collaborations with \"bad boy\" NYC sculptor Banks Violette, which recently culminated, for the time at least, in concurrent shows at Team and Gladstone galleries. Pretty big deal. A precursor took place at Maureen Paley in London last June. Oracle, described as an EP, was birthed directly from that piece: Violette cast salt'n'resin reproductions of Sunn O)))'s amplifiers, instruments, and effects (i.e. the backline); he also built, in his signature black lacquered style, a stage platform, as well as sound panels, for Sunn O)))'s actual set up. Oracle's first half is comprised of the 18minute \"Orakulum\" and the 16minute \"experiment\" \"Belürol Pusztít\", which are described as \"Sunn O)))'s interpretation\" of that Maureen Paley show. The live lineup of Mark Deutrom (on bass), Mayhem vocalist Attila Csihar, Tos Nieuwenhuizen (Beaver, God) on moog, and the Sunn O))) core performed on the Violettebuilt stage at the opening. Much like Malefic's claustrophobic performance on \"Báthory Erzsébet\", Csihar was sealed in a coffin, incanting tracts in old Hungarian, sort of speeches for the dead. The big twist at the peformance much to curiosity seekers' chagrin was that the gallery goers weren't allowed to see it. The band, decked in robes et al, were in a sealed part of the gallery, basically trapped within their own coffin. As stated in the liner notes, they hoped this style of staging would create, \"a feeling of absence, loss and a phantom of what once was.\" (Judging from some art rag reviews, it also pissed folks off...)  The resulting CD was sold (in an edition of 2,000) during live shows Sunn O)))'s 2007 \"Pacific Rim\" tour and the Southern Lord \"West Coast 777\" tour. The vinyl version was released in July in an addition of 7,777 copies. (Very 07/07.) As the liner notes detail, the Oracle recordings are not a recording of the live performance. O'Malley explained to me via email: \"There is no live recording of the action, although the tracks were written and sketch recorded (mixes were done later) beforehand for the collaboration.\"  Instead, the recorded versions are Sunn O))) proper along with Boris' Atsuo, Csihar, and Joe Preston. On the brittle, angular \"Belürol Pusztít\" \"destroys from the inside,\" or thereabouts, in Hungarian Preston puts his back into a jackhammer solo and Atsuo rattles some cymbals/smashes drums, but Csihar's low, throaty, scowling/growling and then instantly highpitch/nailsonachalkboard vocals are the focus (check the tiny tinkling at times from from beneath the drone). \"Orakulum\", the composition that was played at the opening, is a more sumptuous, standard Sunn O))) affair: Lots of slow, heavy guitar resonances and Csihar's anguished tones emerging from the background like an echochambered Hobbit (or, really, the dude from Inquisition). Eventually he's multitracked, consuming the notes around him.  For the CD version of Oracle, a second disc is given over to the 46minute \"Helio)))Sophist\", \"an audial collage of performances in Europe from July 2005.\" The performers here are Anderson, O'Malley, Oren Ambarchi, Csihar, and Nieuwenhuizen. It builds and intensifies with Csihar's vocals, which are at first a low growl and eventually turn crackling, witchy, rumbling until they temporarily cutout or are subsumed at the 20something minute mark, making room for the milky drone of the instrumentalists, all GrimmRobe style. Occasionally the crowd cheers, reminding you that the shit's live, that Sunn remains especially important and effective (to say the least) in the live realm.  So yeah, Sunn O)))'s work with Violette has led to interesting material; it also raises ageold questions about the art world dealing with and fetishizing \"outsiders.\" Interesting, for instance, to see Violette's fascination with black metal described as a fascination with \"death metal,\" that folks think (or wish?) Snorre Ruch from Thorns is still in prison (I visited his Norway home last year; dude's definitely not behind bars...but it makes a juicier story). These seem like minor slips, but hint at a larger misunderstanding (willful? confusion? disinterest?) in the subculture from which Violette's pulling some of his ideas. This sort of uneasy, halfbaked relationship isn't new, but Sunn O))) have managed a level of artrealm success/integration that's currently unparalleled even by Gang Gang Dance, Forcefield, Lightning Bolt, Matmos, Japanther, etc. Congrats to 'em, I say: Oracle includes some excellent Sunn O))) material, and for all my obsessive detailing above and below, as long as you get what dudes are doing, who really cares how the fuck it came about?  "}