{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10343/homepage_large.0cdac238.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Basia Bulat","title":"Oh, My Darling","text":"  The cover image of Basia Bulat's debut record tells you all you need to know about what's contained inside. Then again, maybe it doesn't tell you anything. Bulat is starkly front and center, donning a floppy hat and a youthful Mona Lisa expression, the sort onto which one might project any number of emotions, feelings, or personalities. A sense of aloof confidence is present, butting up against a naïve cuteness. The music on the disc under the picture shapeshifts as much, at times offering a neomadrigal folkie or a muted soul whisperer; elsewhere, a lavendercolored softfolk pureeblender shows up. Bulat further vacillates, like her countrywoman Feist, between littlegirl sweetness and womanly wisdom, yet her specific blend of the two sensibilities more closely recalls Lilith Fair than Let it Die. Bulat's voice is a soft, smoky coffeeshop flutter, most prominently recalling midNineties AAA queens Natalie Merchant and Sarah McLachlan. Ergo, much of Oh, My Darling rings with the same sort of baroque femininity those women mastered. Several songs are coated in a thick lacquer of piano and bowed strings, most prominently \"Snakes and Ladders\", an attractive admixture of aristocratic lilt and snapping rhythm which rates as one of this year's most soundtrackready singles. The song's anxious piano motif and string section combination could score a melodramatic montage where a woman's integrity remains intact despite the numerous obstacles in her way. Within the current atmosphere of music promotion, that equates to \"radiofriendly.\" On occasion, however, Bulat's tunes rely a bit too much on ambience, with a couple of Darling's songs falling back into a billowing, wispy pastiche \"Bulat With Butterfly Wings\", as it were. \"December\", for instance, relies too much on a watery melody to carry the song's wordless middle. Its hopeful refrain, \"I'll hang on/ Even though you're gone,\" doesn't resonate as especially original, either. \"Little One\" also treads dangerously close to MOR territory, a firm drumbeat doing its best to tether the song's generic flutter. Darling's most memorable moments come when the frippery is most restrained, and the romantic sentiment follows suit. The timorous \"Little Waltz\" (\"I learned how to dance, but I never showed it to you\") only allows its string quartet to enter after the first verse, without chewing much scenery. \"I Was A Daughter\", which starts out with droplets of piano and \"Sinnerman\"style handclaps before blossoming into a gentle torrent of violins and rapidfire drumming, then recedes and reappears, is another example of Bulat's knack for curious and surprising arrangements.  She's keen with the folky minimalism, as well; the title track is simple, unadorned feeling, escorted by only acoustic guitar, some multitracked harmonies, and eventually a harmonica. The tooshort stagesetter \"Before I Knew\" is Darling's best moment: handclaps, a ukulele, and some luxuriant harmonies surround Bulat, inching toward a folksy recollection of the Concretes' or El Perro del Mar's tranquil melodicism. It's gone, just like \"Darling\", in just over a minute simple, beguiling, and hopefully a sign of what's to come from this promising songwriter in the future. "}