{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10337/homepage_large.5d3eba72.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Total 8","text":" The first few installments of Kompakt's Total compilation series where the Cologne, Germany techno label annually collects a latesummer clutch of new and previously released tunes were an agreeable jumble of different flavors. Each offered a menu where you might find outright electropop sharing space with a techno anthem made up of just a hammering kick drum and a gnarled synth patch or a blissedout ambient track. But few longtime fans expect that sort of diversity from the label now; much of what's been written about Kompakt in the past few years, whether positive or negative, alludes to the \"comfort food\" aspects of the label's happy retreat into (often gorgeous, it must be said) mannerism. And there's little in the technoid bulk of the overstuffed Total 8 to remind you of the days when Total compilations would come loaded with homelistening curveballs like Superpitcher's lurching house cover of Brian Eno's \"Baby's on Fire.\" That's not to say Total 8 is a letdown within its own slightly constrictive parameters. Tracks like Kompakt mainstay Jörg Burger's \"Polyform\" set the template for much of Total 8's two discs: An opening ripple of Chain Reactionstyle echo, a circular drum pattern built on thin highhats and a metronomic kick, and a swirl of glassy bleeps, making your enjoyment of its clockwork groove dependent on how lost you can get within Burger's minimal matrix. The rest of the compilation's sparer tracks pass or fail, as with most minimal dance music, on the basis of their sonic accessories. DJ Koze's \"Mariposa\" grinds and splutters through a long outro that sounds like a prop airplane's engine about to burst into flames, and Jürgen Paape and Echo Club both seem to have gotten their eerie, alien hooks from the insect kingdom. But pro forma inclusions from Herve AK and Steadycam blur so unobtrusively that you wonder if even their creators could pick them out of the middle of a DJ set. Elsewhere Total 8 explores terra cognita like the kind of tactile, grotty ambience first popularized by Basic Channel (Superpitcher's crepuscular crackles and Nightcats' fizzing overlays), and tracks from the Rice Twins and Thomas/Mayer exhibit the odd restraint that Kompakt brings to the template of \"cheesy\" trance. With their teardrop pianos and sighing synth pads Ibiza anthems that have been tranquilized and shackled with leg irons Kompakt's almost aggressive, campy melodic wistfulness remains firmly intact. Even Total 8's clutch of disco tunes like the delayswathed shuffle of Burger/Voigt, the shortcircuiting discotrance of Gui Boratto, Partial Arts' mournful strings, or the playfully downcast 1980s boogie of Justus Köhncke seem best suited to a lonely, late night taxi ride home from the club.  But whereas the label's love of heavily accented English vocals once leavened the heavy (or heavenly) atmosphere of Kompakt's tracks, familiarity can now make them feel like a labored attempt at being cute. Just listen to tracks like Paape's flimsy comeon \"We Love\" or Broke's Teutonic take on the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion's version of \"funkiness\" on \"Cola Dancer\" (which has, in its favor, the closest thing to a proper bassline on the whole record). You get the impression that a belted diva hook from somebody with a decent pair of lungs and a grounding in the blues might send all these European sons scurrying right under their beds. It's doubly a shame, because a few decent vocals might have spiced the record's occasionally starchy instrumentals. But Total 8 does reaffirm, as with the last few volumes, that listeners can rely on Kompakt to crank out a few dozen goodtogreat cuts a year at least if they're not so worried about challenging their tastebuds.  "}