{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10348/homepage_large.35bbadee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Piano Magic","title":"Part-Monster","text":" There's a moment on Piano Magic's excellent The Troubled Sleep of... album from 2003 where singer Angèle DavidGuillou sighs, \"You turn on your side, like you have to face north/ Or else you can't sleep: The unwritten law.\" It feels important, this moment, to the extent that any pinpoint coalescence of a new phase in a random indie band's musical development can be. Where before one sensed that for Piano Magic the song was simply a framework notion in which other, perhaps more interesting things could be achieved, on the gentle \"The Unwritten Law\" it's like the two levels, sound and song, merged and became indistinguishable: For better or worse, Piano Magic were now songwriters, rock performers. And yet, even though it was done with a typically measured grace, Piano Magic's transformation from their original status as Glen Johnson's revolvingdoor avantindie \"project\" into a fullfledged rock band still surprises, and perplexes a bit, four years on. Perhaps it's simply that, whatever story it was that earlier, amorphous pieces such as \"I Am the SubLibrarian\" were meant to be telling, it surely couldn't end in glovesniffing guitar dynamics. But here we are with PartMonster, the group's loudest and most straightforwardly songful effort yet. For the first time, a new album from Piano Magic heralds no new stylistic shifts (even 2005's Disaffected included a few winsome homages to Be Music's electropop), instead building on the controlled riffs and moody postpunk songforms that dominated Disaffected, interspersing them with quiet moments that could come from any stage of the group's evolution. It would make sense for the group's embrace of postpunk revivalism to recall the chilly sparseness of Joy Division or Wire circa 154, but instead PartMonster's rock songs are voluptuously thick, coloured in with ethereal keyboards but giving full reign to a guitar sound whose fuzzy raggedness recalls The Cure and The Comsat Angels in its baroque prettiness and emberlike smoulder. This thickness works admirably: the arrangements on the throbbing album owner \"The Last Engineer\" or the careening \"Great Escapes\" are vast and stormy enough to add a certain grandeur to Johnson's plaintively murmured apocalyptic visions. It's on the sprinkling of softer tracks that Johnson's camp miserablism (in the Morrissey sense) becomes wearisome: \"England's Always Better (As You're Pulling Away)\", sounds exactly as you'd expect, its melodramatic melancholy only saved by a charmingly dolorous extended detour into a spoken word piece courtesy of The Bitter Springs' Simon Rivers, over a funereal horn arrangement kidnapped from old Mogwai records (it's better than that makes it sound though). No such luck for the acoustic whimpers of the title track, which offers no relief from Johnson's carefully staged selfpity. Perhaps Johnson's art is more compelling when he keeps it at arm's length from himself, giving breath to an idea of something (or someone) else else rather than infusing the song with his own persona. PartMonster works best when he lets his guitars speak for him, or when he shares around vocal duties: DavidGuillou's shimmering, partly electronic \"Soldier Song\" harks back to the antiquarian stiffness of Artists' Rifles, and is a powerful reminder that Johnson's songs are often best performed as if staring through a window at something occurring offstage, their chilly reserve giving shape to some emotional content by carefully observing and tracing its outline. PartMonster's mild dropoff relative to its preceding albums is not yet cause for concern: Piano Magic have stumbled before, only to right themselves marvellously. It's arguable, in fact, that there's no dropoff at all: Songforsong this is as strong as they've ever been. But there's a nagging sense that they may finally have tiptoed into redundancy, that the noise and motion of this album is designed to conceal either a failure to find new ideas or complacency about searching in the first place. Perhaps I'm simply concerned that \"a strong collection of new songs\" is all that the new Piano Magic have to offer these days: it's an idea the old Piano Magic probably would have scorned. "}