{"label":" Moribund","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10345/homepage_large.a6aac4f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"Hacavitz","title":"Katun","text":"  Mexican diabolical duo Hacavitz specialize in blasting aural warfare of the utterly \"troo\" and \"cult\" variety. In fact, so much so that they're signed to the überundie innercircle of evilus metallicus, Moribund Records. Last year's debut Venganza was a wellreceived slab of hell sounds specializing in blackened death metal (aka black/death metal). To the uninitiated, that may only translate as two different kinds of screaming: the death version with Cookie Monsterstyled shoutbarking, and the black version with highpitched and guttural raw hamburgerthroated shrieking. There are also as key differentiations in guitar riffs: death metal tends to be more angular, dissonant and technical, while black metal can translate from grinding punk chainsaw rips to minorkeyed, often melodic and \"evil\" sounding passages. Death metal has made a serious come back as of late many bands have dabbled in the dark arts of mixing its knuckledragging troglodytestomping sounds with the witchy and arcane styles of Scandinavianflavored black metal. Some of the more notable acts would be Akercocke, Angel Corpse, Dissection, Zyklon, and current rising, uh, death stars, Behemoth. Since you've read this far, we'll assume you're initiated in the micro genres of extreme metal and forego the nomenclature handholding, but please do watch your head for any lowhanging stalactites and be advised not to rub any looselaying pentagrams on your forehead or private parts. For Hacavitz's latest Katun the band lost its bassist and drummer and found itself existing as a terrible twosome, but the lack of members seems to have only increased their focus, and fierceness. Splitting the album down the middle, Katun starts out with five blistering tracks that lean heavily on the mantle of black, and much like another famed cult duo black metal gods Darkthrone it samples all of the subtle varieties of witch's brew.  On the hilariouslynamed opening track \"Regnum Satani (In League With Satan We Ride)\", blistering hardcore guitar attacks with stabbing staccato accents get steamrolled by blastbeat drum fury that disintegrates into spooky chanting, moaning, wakingupinchains bummerisms. These creepy bits morph into song two, and the album's best track, \"TinieblasTenochtitlan\", a midtoslow tempoed apocalyptic smasher that blends bendy rapidlychugged ax craft atop slow drums, with slowly picked out funereal chord progressions. Cool, dark stuff, but even better when the haunting shaman flute starts blowing its dreamtime plumes about the place.  By the time \"From Sin To Honour\" arrives, the tunes switch so that the accent seems to falls more on the death metal though the Count Chocula nuggets and the Frankenberry bits remain sprinkled throughout. It could just be a matter of taste, but to these ears, things get less interesting once the BPMs are constantly kicked into the red such as the manic battery found on tracks like \"Ride Thee Nebulah\" and \"Rex Funebre\". The dark, but discernible (even when whizzing by) sixstring hand grenades thrown about earlier in the record, get swapped out for fullon grinding, blurring mayhem but kudos for the cover of thrash/protoblack legends Dark Angel that closes the disc. Fans of the meatandpotatoesthrownthroughanindustrialfan variety of BM/DM like the previously mentioned Angel Corpse or Hate Eternal should find a pleasant ride though out, otherwise, for this hellish descent hop off around flaming, soulsucking circle number six.  "}