{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10349/homepage_large.83405a64.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 7: 1967","text":"  In many ways, 1967 was year zero for the world we live in today. From Detroit to Nigeria to Jerusalem to Paris to Southeast Asia, it was a year of cataclysms and upheaval. Dozens of American cities burned that summer, the United States of America lost more than 11,000 soldiers in Vietnam, the draft was in full force, and protestors showed up at the Pentagon in October, chanting \"Hey, hey, LBJ! How many kids did you kill today?\" Israel seized the West Bank, Gaza, and the Golan Heights in the Six Days' War, and we're still reading the consequences in headlines every day. It was the year that most fully embodied what we think of today when we say \"the 60s.\" It can be represented by a photo of a hippie dancing to the music in his head on the San Francisco Presidio during the Summer of Love, or a photo of an F105 Thunderchief unloading bombs on North Vietnam, of Hendrix kneeling over a burning guitar at Monterey Pop, of race riots and fire hoses, of corpses in Biafra, of flowers in gun barrels, of the Beatles in their Sgt. Pepper's costumes. It could be a lithographed swirl of color that on closer inspection informs you that the Grateful Dead and five other bands will be playing at the Fillmore West on Saturday. Pop music changed that year, the trickle of new ideas that cropped up in the mid60s growing to a flood. 1967 saw Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts' Club Band, Piper at the Gate of Dawn, The Doors, Velvet Underground & Nico, Are You Experienced?, \"Cold Sweat\", and dozens of other records that were filled with sounds no one had heard or even imagined before. Funny, I didn't mention Motown or anything affiliated with it there, did I? The label was in some ways unequipped for 1967 when the year came along. The world was exploding around it in July of that year, 2,000 buildings burned to the ground in Detroit during the 12th Street riot. Fortythree people died and more than 7,000 were arrested. The National Guard and the 82nd Airborne were sent in to bring some semblance of order back to the city. The 82nd Airborne kept its weapons unloaded, but the Guard units didn't, with predictable results. For the first time since 1959, Hitsville, U.S.A., was quiet.  Berry Gordy's operating philosophy had always been to create a disciplined environment in which creativity could thrive, and part of creating that environment meant that Motown was essentially an aroundtheclock, 247 operation. There was almost never a time when something wasn't happening in the Snake Pit studio or one of the evergrowing number of cubbyholes that passed for offices in the Hitsville complex. But during the riots, the studio and offices closed for six whole days. As with the automobile factories that by this time had mostly moved out of the Motor City limits to the Detroit suburbs, lost days meant lost productivity, which meant a financial hit as well.  Given the context, it's something to listen to the music that the company produced that year. HipO Select's ongoing series of comprehensive singles collections gathers all the released A and Bsides, as well as a few that were scheduled for release but never pressed. Where earlier volumes were liberally sprinkled with musical outliers, this one is almost terrifyingly focused on the Motown Sound, a certifiable and unmistakable aesthetic for a couple of years by this point. The music and lyrics seem oddly immune to the global paroxysm that everyone at Motown was fully aware of these aren't songs of protest. They're songs of longing and love and love lost that come from a wholesome America that never existed. And people bought most of them in droves.  It's blindingly obvious why people bought and loved and danced to these songs, but I'll say it anyway: They're great songs, social context be damned. The sophistication of the arrangements, the voices, the rhythms, the big, open sound, the lyrics that anyone can understand and get behind this is why Motown, a black company in a blindingly white world, originally crashed the pop charts, and all of this is what kept them there even as everything else changed. Partly thanks to Motown, by 1967, anything could hit the pop charts, and just about any kind of thing you could imagine did, by artists of all races.  The label's biggest act, the Supremes, opened the year smack in the middle of a run of four straight number one singles, and the HollandDozierHolland production and writing team was so deep in its groove that they could essentially do no wrong. Everything they wrote at this point was great, and little innovations spilled into songs seemingly as a matter of course. The closest Motown got to psychedelia that year was an HDH job for the Supremes: The sublime \"Reflections\", which opens with a few whirs from a tone generator before sliding into its tambourineaugmented beat. The lyrics are a kaleidoscope of reflections: memories, regrets, and literal reflections in teardrops, mirrors and window panes.  HDH also had the Four Tops firing on all cylinders in 67. \"Bernadette\" is nearly unbelievable, with Levi Stubbs' crazed, heavily syncopated vocal falling everywhere you expect it not to, and its Bside is an amazing Northern stomper called \"I Got a Feeling\" that could stop a mod's heart in midbeat. Later in the set, another Tops Bside, \"I'll Turn to Stone\", actually outdoes it for sheer, wonderful danceability. But if the music was hot, the HDH team's relationship with Berry Gordy was hotter. They, the three men arguably most responsible for developing the true, signature Motown Sound, felt their compensation wasn't commensurate with their contribution, and they left Hitsville to form the Hot Wax and Invictus labels that year.  Several other familiar faces were out the door by the end of the year as well. Mickey Stevenson, Kim Weston, and Clarence Paul, some of whom had been there since the beginning, all left. The Contours made their last recording for the label, with Dennis Edwards on lead vocals, passing through the group's ranks on his way to taking David Ruffin's place in the Temptations the following year. Flo Ballard was edged out of the Supremes in favor of Cindy Birdsong, and by the end of the year they were officially Diana Ross & the Supremes.  Where Lamont Dozier and the Holland brothers created a vacuum, Norman Whitfield moved quickly to fill it. He was using the Temptations as his personal laboratory with fantastic results. He kicked up the tempo on \"All I Need\", a rocket made of harmony, brought in majestic strings on the fluttering slowburner \"You're My Everything\" and made one of pop music's alltime sad masterpieces in \"I Wish it Would Rain\". On the latter, Ruffin takes the genuine anguish of Rodger Penzabene's lyrics and gives them the delivery they deserve rough, wounded and fragile. Penzabene, who lived that song every day, took his own life soon after the single was released. Whitfield, along with frequent cowriter Barrett Strong, was also responsible for \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", recorded by Marvin Gaye early in the year. This version was shelved by Berry Gordy, though, and Whitfield took it to Gladys Knight & the Pips, who in turn took it to #2 pop, #1 r&b.  Also stepping in to fill the production vacuum were newcomers Nickolas Ashford and Valerie Simpson. The two clearly understood the Motown aesthetic, but they brought their own spin to it, a spin that was perfect for the dueting talents of Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell. In 1967, they gave Gaye and Terrell two of the most powerful duets in pop history: \"Ain't No Mountain High Enough\" and \"Your Precious Love\". The seamless blend of the two voices and the effortless smoothness of the Ashford/Simpson production combined to make something magical, but it wasn't to last: Terrell collapsed into Gaye's arms at a concert and wound up in a hospital, diagnosed with a brain tumor that would ultimately take her life in 1970 at the age of 24.  Others came to the label in different ways. Edwin Starr, a bona fide hitmaker, ended up on the roster when Gordy bought RicTic, the label Starr was signed to. It took a couple of years for Motown to fully tap Starr's potential, but his debut for the Gordy imprint, \"I Want My Baby Back\", was spectacular even if it wasn't a hit. As much as the label had finally found true focus, there were still a few anomalies. The Underdogs, a raw, talented garage rock band, lead off the entire set with \"Love's Gone Bad\", easily the roughest, toughest rock track the label had put out to that point. Some of the Funk Brothers, including bassist James Jamerson, are on the track, but you wouldn't guess that from the sound of itsinger Dave Whitehouse's powerful lead is backed by a thrashing beat that's different from anything else here.  Other musical tangents are tamer. Gordy was still messing around with crooners Billy Eckstine and Barbara McNair, though neither ever went anywhere on his label. The Messengers were kind of a jangly poprock band in a West Coast veinoddly, the bside of their single was the first recording of the Ashford & Simpson classic \"California Soul\", muchcovered by Motown artists in the coming years. The Messengers' Aside was written by R. Dean Taylor, who had released perhaps Motown's greatest rock song, \"There's a Ghost in My House\", earlier in 67. That song has a relentless rhythm track, some perfectly placed fuzz guitar and a suitably frantic, haunted vocal.  Several Motown mainstays quietly had good years. Smokey Robinson & the Miracles' \"I Second That Emotion\" is practically weightless, while Stevie Wonder wills himself off the ground on \"I Was Made to Love Her\" and the great, levitating Bside \"Hey Love\". Brenda Holloway cut the original version of \"You've Made Me So Very Happy\", but it pales next to \"Just Look What You've Done\", which may have the fastest tempo on the set but still features a poised and powerful vocal.  The year 1967 was Muhammed Ali refusing to serve after being drafted, acid in San Francisco, 400 million viewers around the world tuning in via satellite as the Beatles performed \"All You Need Is Love\", and Thurgood Marshall taking his seat as the first AfricanAmerican on the Supreme Court, a court that had just ruled state laws prohibiting interracial marriage unconstitutional. It was Operation Rolling Thunder and the Six Days' War and Biafra and student demonstration time. But it was also Martha & the Vandellas in vinyl skirts with mod designs on the front, the dignified sadness of Roger Penzabene, the amazing sound of Tammi Terrell's voice blended with Marvin Gaye's, Uriel Jones and Pistol Allen on the drum kit, James Jamerson on the bass and a few dozen perfect melodies offered up by a gathering of talent quite unlike anything assembled before or since. You'd never guess 1967 was Motown's year until you listen to the year Motown had in 1967. The music is hard to beat.  "}