{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10354/homepage_large.4af7e340.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Summer Records Anthology 1974-1988","text":"  It almost seems like the premise of some odd \"SCTV\" bit: Starting sometime in the late 1960s, Toronto began to develop its own reggae scene, built by a foundation of Jamaican expats who operated just far enough under the radar to keep their music a local secret. When Light in the Attic began releasing a series of records devoted to these artists, including last year's essential compilation Jamaica to Toronto: Soul Funk & Reggae 19671974, they brought some welldeserved attention on some of the pillars of that scene: Wayne McGhie, Johnnie Osbourne, Noel Ellis even Skatalites original and Studio One musical director Jackie Mittoo, Jamaica's Booker T., who spent much of his life cultivating the reggae community in Toronto. Despite the material largely skewing towards a sound more indebted to the soul and funk that the title hinted at than the day's Caribbean music, the Jamaica to Toronto comp was a good focus point for a resurrection and revival of the Toronto reggae sound.Summer Records Anthology 19741988 takes things one step further: where reggae went in the 70s, dub was close to follow, typically only as far away as the other side of a 45. In Malton, Ontario, some 20 miles from Toronto, stood Jerry Brown's Summer Sound Studios, the source of a rich catalogue of dub and reggae records, many of which are collected here. If the timespan seems a bit broad starting around the same time Lee Perry began his Black Ark era and ranging to the late 80s, the crest of Prince Jammy's digital dancehall days it's also a good timeline of where Brown's stylistic flourishes tended to evolve, starting at simple bassheavy frequencies and eventually expanding into concretedungeon echoes, synthesizer drones, and drums that sounded like rain hitting rubber. It's practically a microcosm of the same sort of evolution happening 1,800 miles to the South. Like Jamaica to Toronto, Summer Records Anthology fixes its focus on a small but strong crosssection of artists. Four of the tracks are given over to Johnny Osbourne, who shows a bit of range with forays into lover's rock and roots Rastafarianism alike: \"Love Makes the World Go Round\", the Bside to Summer Records' first single \"Sun Rise\", is a harmonic duet with Bunny Brown, delicate and aching with a Junior Murvinstyle falsetto, while later cuts like the booming \"Jah Jah Live Forever\" and the wounded, mournful \"Warrior\" make up for in raw emotion what they lack in melodic range. The best Osbourne cut, the tense, minimalist \"Right, Right Time\", also features Earth, Roots & Water, a group that dominates the first half of the collection with their presence; as a house band of sorts they're pretty versatile, whether they're playing simple instrumentals (\"Come Together\", with Bobby Gaynair, which sounds a bit like the Upsetters in their earlier, less outlandish Clint Eastwood Rides Again/Cloak and Dagger guise) or rattling, synthheavy echochamber dub.  Though the first three years' worth of material on the record features solid approximations of prime \"Scratch\" Perry and King Tubby, it's the longest tracks, circa 197779, that represent the peak of this collection and, potentially, the Summer Sound Studios output. Noel Ellis, whose \"Memories\" was Jamaica to Toronto's most dubbedout and adventurous track, stands at the center of \"Reach My Destiny\", which pushes seven and a half minutes and spends most of it fusing bass, drums and electronics into a swampy coating of rhythmic atmosphere. Ellis' vocals, which occupy themselves with familiar Rasta exhortations (\"God won't you break down this great wall of Babylon for me\") in a gently intense manner reminiscent of Horace Andy tweaked a pitch or two lower, eventually gives way to a staccato guitar that sounds like The Edge in zero gravity. Ranking's \"Chatty Chatty People\" is a bit more uptempo than most of the other songs here, nearly bordering on rocksteady, but the tinny cowbells and aluminumpipe acoustics eventually give way to a miledeep piano and the occasional peculiar electronic hiccup that sounds swiped from George Lucas' foley room. And Jerry Brown's own \"Dreadlock Lady\" assembles a tight horn ensemble throwing in a flute for good measure that he then manipulates into a sort of burbling undersea chorus.  There is a bit of a hitch at the end of the record, as the material suddenly jumps from 1979 to 1988 and endlessreverb atmosphere and oil drummeetsshotgun percussion makes way for inexpensive keyboards. The tinnysounding synthesized horn section on Willi Williams' \"Run Them a Run\" distracts from his mellow rasp, while the digital dancehall of Unique Madoo's \"Call Me Nobody Else\", wonderfullysung as it is, sticks out as a bit of an anachronistic oddity on an album that's largely half its pace and trends towards live backing bands. (That said, put those two songs on a 7\" and you're in business.) A bonus DVD, featuring a documentary with twentyplus minutes of late 70svintage footage, rounds out the package, and the video is illuminating featuring clips of Brown singing superbly as he cruises through the suburbs on a tenspeed, running through a version of \"Armagideon Time\" with Williams, and knocking the dents out of a powderblue land yacht in his day job at an auto body shop. The latter scene provides a funny little juxtaposition between the sound of his hammer against metal and the percussive ricochets of the track playing beneath in its own way, the synopsis of all the ideas on this record, steel hitting steel and striking things into shape. "}