{"label":" Fading Captain","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10356/homepage_large.64a59749.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Robert Pollard","title":"Crickets: The Best of the Fading Captain Series 1999 - 2007","text":"  If you've clicked here, you know Robert Pollard has written many songs. However, discontinuing the Fading Captain series (just to start another vanity label, Prom Is Coming) begs for some kind of benchmark tallying, so let's crunch a few numbers: Crickets compiles material from some 20 albums (and a smattering of compilations, singles, and EPs), many of which were released as Pollard was recording, writing, and touring with Guided by Voices. Just how many songs that amounts to from Fading Captain #1 (1999's Kid Marine) until now is hard to calculate, though if you're curious, he's registered 926 songs with BMI, and the exhaustive and very helpful gbvdb.com lists the grand total of those which were ever released at 1,242 (13 are cover versions). Starting with the first Guided by Voices album (1987's Devil Between My Toes), that's putting out forty to sixty songs a year. Just going on the hours it took me to finish this review, relatively speaking, I am a failure in life. But here's some simpler math: The long and storied career of Pollard's bestknown and bestloved band was expertly distilled down to the nearperfect compilation Human Amusements at Hourly Rates by Pollard himself, and it all fit on just one disc. Crickets is two. I assume Fading Captain requires twice the space because... actually, I have no idea. Because they had to fit that seventh Circus Devils track on? They had to include the a track from the painfully forgettable soundtrack to Bubble? Sure, Fading Captain releases were often spotty, but there were always one or two gems on even the least essential records that should really sustain an album's worth of consistent listening. I can barely make it through the first disc.Crickets does the listener the favor of \"rescuing\" certain tracks from albums which didn't live up to their finest moments, like the impatient and blistering bile of the Circus Devils' \"Bull Spears\", or \"Sensational Gravity Boy\" from the completistbaiting Briefcase compilation, an abridged version of GbV's first fourdisc Suitcase box with a few extra unreleased tracks tucked in. But as with almost any compilation, there are songs that should have been rescued that weren't, which is especially frustrating given how much mediocre material they did choose. Omitting \"I Drove a Tank\" is a serious headscratcher, a GbV live staple that towers over the other Soft Rock Renegades material included here. Same with \"Circle of Trim\" when compared to the middling \"Feathering Clueless (The Exotic Freebird)\" from the first Airport 5 album with former GbV guitarist Tobin Sprout, or taking two tracks from the Motel of Fools minialbum and somehow neglecting \"Red Ink Superman\". Still, prolific as he was, no one should be treated as a human jukebox. One of the small, unexpectedly rewarding pleasures of the Fading Captain series was hearing Pollard try to fit himself into new contexts. Free of the sifting necessary on the albums, many of those tracks shine here, like the surprisingly chipper \"Soldiers of June\" snatched from the more keyboardbased and often creepy ambiance of the Circus Devils, or breezier, gentle songs like The Takeovers' \"Island of Lost Lucys\" or Pollard's \"Zoom (It Happens All Over the World)\", recorded with Doug Gillard mere months after GbV played their final show. Moreover, each disc ends with three heretofore unreleased songs, but aside from naming one of them \"I'm Gonna Miss My Horse\", none of them are very memorable. To be completely fair (maybe fairer than much of this material deserves), a backtoback parade of hits would be misrepresenting what Fading Captain was all about.  With its thoughtful, charming packaging, stuffed with photos collages and compiling album artwork for every last Fading Captain release, Crickets is more like one of the monolithic GbV Suitcase sets than a bestof, just half as long and with a (slightly) better hitormiss ratio. The easy thing to say would be that this is a great introduction to material that's as strong as Pollard's former day job, and that might be half true. His earliest solo material for Matador is as strong as anything Guided By Voices ever put out, and under the umbrella of Fading Captain, Lexo and the Leapers' Ask Them ranks with Pollard's finest work, as does Speak Kindly of Your Volunteer Fire Department and even the first Airport 5 record. Crickets, however, lacks adequate bait for completists and will confuse and likely put off neophytes. It's simply cleaning house.  "}