{"label":" VP","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10357/homepage_large.0b03fe47.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Mavado","title":"Gangsta for Life: The Symphony of David Brooks","text":"  Mavado is very good at one particular thing, and he does that one thing so many times on debut fulllength Gangsta for Life that the album gets boring quickly. That's something of an unavoidable flaw. As with most dancehall longplayers, Gangsta for Life is essentially a singles compilation, an hour straight of tracks that Movado's been flooding Jamaica's market with for the past couple of years. He favors a very specific type of backing track: grim martial dirges with rolling snares and shuddering strings, warmovie soundtrack fare. Tracks like that make a great showcase for his persona, and that persona is the main reason he's risen so quickly to become a major dancehall star. Movado plays the part of a remorseful, weary thug, someone who's dug himself so deep into a life of violence that he can't see a way out. His threats are violent and explicit (\"cut your fucking tongue out,\" that sort of thing), but he delivers them with a sort of inconsolable sadness. His voice is a weathered, grounddown mumblemoan, and he spends about the same amount of time singing ruefully as he does rapping forbiddingly. His scarredup visage has certainly done plenty to strengthen the impression that his voice makes, and it's not hard to see why so many people love this guy. He's romantically compelling in a Tupac sort of way, and when he spreads his haunted cry slowly over a stomping track, the effect is powerful. Or, to clarify, it's powerful the first couple of times. Around the tenth, it loses some of its luster. There's great stuff to be found on Gangsta for Life, but it's also something of a frustrating listen, since it's so painfully evident that Mavado has a much better album in him. More care should've been given to the album's sequencing; of twentyfive tracks, eight are momentumsapping skits, and many of the songs barely break the twominute barrier. And when they're all lined up one after another, Mavado's forlorn, violent laments get repetitive quickly. There's something perversely admirable about his refusal to gear his album toward an American crossover audience, but the resulting sonic uniformity is a problem. He may have a far more interesting character than, say, Bermudan cracker Collie Buddz, but Collie's recent debut covers a whole lot more stylistic ground and ends up making for a more satisfying endtoend listen.  Only near the album's end does Mavado even begin to branch out. \"Sadness\", a dedication to his late father, is a bleak and bleary slice of onedrop tradreggae, a style that fits Mavado's voice particularly well. The quietstorm synths and wind chimes on the love song \"Heart Beat\" are hackneyed as hell, but his vocal turns it into an affecting exercise anyway. And on \"Squeeze Breast\" Mavado sounds like his soul is being torn apart even when he's singing about fucking; the contrast is fascinating. The last five songs on the record wrench Mavado out of his comfort zone, and they end up sounding way more alive as a result.  Maybe it's admirable how stubbornly Mavado stays in his lane, but a fulllength demands more variation. So the best way to hear these tracks is probably in discrete chunks, as the singles were originally intended. On, say, my iPod's shuffle function, the songs from the album work as short, powerful blurts of darkness and pain. Heard all in a row, they add up to less than the sum of their parts. "}