{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10372/homepage_large.7af34be2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"The Howling Hex","title":"XI","text":" Neil Michael Hagerty's long, tortuous career has laid waste to a lot of opening paragraphs, practically lobotomizing the reviewer before he/she can begin tackling his equally brainmelting music. I would even go so far as to suspect this Renaissance dude of fattening up his résumé intentionally, as a misdirect masking his ambitious yet sloppy music. Considering his two biggest inspirational sources classic and noise rock this equivocation makes sense: On the surface, Hagerty and his most recent band Howling Hex qualify as your standard meat'n'potatoes rock outfit, yet the group takes great pains in shrouding their potentially accessible sound with disjointed songwriting, arcane lyrics, and other artistic fuckery. And oh yeah, he was in Pussy Galore, Royal Trux, and has written two books as well as an obsessive Howling Hex blog, among other pursuits. 2006's Nightclub Version of the Eternal marked an unprecedented level of buttonpushing for the Hex, as a string of seven minuteplus masturbatory jams frustrated even the staunchest defenders of the band's idiosyncrasies. Thankfully, XI's slickedback tracks sound like reparations, Hagerty hedging his postmodern tics in favor of threeminute, riffbased rawk that reminds us this is the same rock zealot who convinced Pussy Galore to rerecord Exile on Main St. back in the day. Hell, at some points, you might confuse this for a Spoon record. The meaty guitar/sax/horn trifecta on straightforward, swaggering pop rockers like \"Ambulance Across the Street\" and \"Everybody's Doing It\" avoids any protracted jams, the lyrics cogent enough to generate both pathos and a storyline in the latter: \"Broken heart, broken home/ Now you're lyin' there all alone,/ In an ambulance across the street.\" Unfortunately, Hagerty can't go completely cold turkey from the jam band stuff. Even with shorter songs, the ideas still remain fairly loose and unfocused, not to mention the spoken word diarrhea of \"Let Fridays Decide\", a pretentious intermission that undermines much of the album's unexpected edibility. Considering the punch of dirtier, nastier garage rock nuggets like \"Live Wire\" and \"Theme\", I wish Hagerty sought and destroyed more Stoogeisms on this record. Still, the consistent Fogerty shuffles here make XI the most worthwhile Hex release since 2005's AllNight Fox, and a nice little twilightofcareer album assuming the sun will ever set on Hagerty's rampaging career. "}