{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10374/homepage_large.19dca6f0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Home Schooled: The ABCs of Kid Soul","text":"  In 1969, Berry Gordy gave an instrumental track that had originally been intended for Gladys Knight & the Pips to the Jackson 5. His new writing team of Alphonso Mizell, Deke Richards, Freddie Perren, and Gordy himself, officially christened The CorporationTM, wrote \"I Want You Back\" for the Jackson brothers to sing over the track. It was the first of four straight number one hits for the group and is pretty easily the greatest kid soul tune ever recorded. The sight of those four straight number ones set off light bulbs in the heads of controlling fathers, gangsters, housewives, DJs, and opportunists across the country, who were convinced that they had the next Jackson 5 playing hopscotch down the block. There are thousands of records out there featuring soul kids, from the somewhat obscure, like Foster Sylvers, to the totally unknown, which is where this compilation comes in. This is a tough compilation to judge relative to other soul anthologies, or even other kids' music anthologies. For one thing, though these songs are sung by children ranging from preK all the way through high school, they are in no way intended for children. It's a bizarre world where kids who still believe in cooties are handed songs by adult composers who think nothing of projecting their romantic troubles and the sexual tension of their relationships onto their pintsize scions. The tension between childhood naïveté and sexual awakening is what makes this music compelling. In terms of technique and listening enjoyment, these tracks are all over the place, but they all have a special, even faintly tragic sense of misplaced hope and hijacked innocence that makes them affecting. There are a couple of minor masterpieces here. \"I'm Not Ready For Love\", by a quartet of teenaged Maryland girls named Promise by their producer, is a tightly arranged number with a stellar vocal arrangement, a captivating melody and amazing lyrics like, \"I'm not ready to fuss and fight/ I'm not ready to cry all night/ Waiting by the phone,\" certainly not a glasshalffull view of adult love.  Tampa's Triads appear with an astounding track called \"If You're Looking For Love\" that features great close harmonies and a walloping funk backing the vocalists sound reasonably mature, and this could have been a small hit if it had received any distribution at all. Cindy & the Playmates look forward to summer vacation on \"Now That School Is Through\", but the backing vocals have an initially incongruous noir vibe that takes the song to another level. The conversation that pops up over the fade is priceless: \"What are you doing this summer?\" Cindy asks her boyfriend. \"I'm just gonna lay around and take it easy,\" he replies, and naturally, she asks, \"Can I come too?\"  Some of the material is less directly grabbing, and more interesting from an intellectual standpoint. The 3 Stars' \"Jersey Slide, Pt. 1\" is a wouldbe dance craze track ambitiously written so that the three extremely young singers trade off rapidfire lines, but for all their effort, the kids can't pull it off with authority. Altyrone Deno Brown, previously heard on the second volume of Numero Group's Eccentric Soul series, sounds like he has a head cold, and while nineyearold Jack of Jack & the Mods has incredible control over his voice, he still doesn't sound like he knows what he's singing about on \"One Is Enough For One\".  The Atons' \"Yellow Ribbon\" is just bizarre, opening with a teenaged guy chatting with his friends over a funk instrumental and kicking into a hightempo, slightly keyless cover of \"Tie a Yellow Ribbon Round the Old Oak Tree\" that defies the imagination. Even odder is Jr. & the Soulettes' instrumental \"2009 Cherry Soul Sound\", not because it features an elevenyearold shredding through a wahwah pedal, but because almost no child groups made instrumentals the market for the music was built around voices. Patrizia & Jimmy open the compilation with an astonishing track from 1974 that is essentially hiphop. \"Trust Your Child, pt. 1\" rides a sharp midtempo funk beat while Patrizia authoritatively raps out a lecture to parents admonishing them to respect their children.  Different people will listen to this music for different reasons. Some are voyeurs looking for the garish train wreck, some are drawn to the fragile hope and sense of possibility in the recordings, others are just looking for a good drum break or even something genuinely great. You get a little of all of that here. The eclectic range of the material is remarkable, but the big draw is the confluence of innocence and experience we've all lived through. Think about it another way: when the Beatles got all starryeyed about holding hands, they were faking or remembering innocence to a degree. These kids actually have it.  "}