{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10371/homepage_large.6d96a284.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Artanker Convoy","title":"Cozy Endings","text":"  With their alluring cover art and a bunch of song titles (\"Open Up\", \"Geyser\", \"The Happy Minotaur\") that might also double as the names of exotic sex positions, it might appear that Artanker Convoy are actively courting the swank bachelor pad market. It can also occasionally sound that way on Cozy Endings, the Brooklyn instrumental sextet's second album for Social Registry, but typically with a lot else going on besides. Incorporating elements of jazz and dub, the eclectic group can recall some of the Beastie Boys' better homegrown funk instrumentals, as well as the dusky postrock of Chicago's Tortoise / Isotope 217 contingent. Whatever it is they're up to, Artanker Convoy deliver it all with a laidback, cultured flair that seems specifically designed to complement your personal activities rather than compete with them. Drummer/ band leader Artanker and bassist Joe Fiorentino played with LCD Soundsystem's James Murphy in the shortlived Jimi Clambake Explosion, and their easy chemistry anchors Cozy Endings with a graceful, selfassured authority. The rest of the players most notably saxophonist Jake Oas and multiinstrumentalist Chris Seeds all display considerable chops as well, but the emphasis here is less on soloing or individual voices than it is on joint exploration. Though the Convoy's sound can point in the direction of the electric 70s grooves of Miles Davis or Herbie Hancock, there is a hazy sense of restraint here that keeps noisier commotion at bay, as the musicians concentrate their energies on servicing the album's hypnotic, understated melodies. This strategy works to near perfection on the first track \"Open Up\", which builds with exquisite patience from an extended intro of glassy drones and fluttering percussion into a looselimbed Krautrock stride, with narcotic guitar figures joining Oas' sax in midair for some tranquil dialogue. Less ambitious, but no less pleasant, are the more funkoriented likes of \"Geyser\" or \"Black Dauphin\", whose smoky organ flourishes and organic rhythms ride with a relaxed, cocktailhour motion. Sturdy though these performances are, however, there's little here that'll likely leave the listener with more than a few residual traces of perfume or secondhand smoke, and one can soon begin to wish that Artanker Convoy had taken a few more wild chances with their production or arrangements.  The only vocals to speak of are Artanker's indecipherable spacewhispers on \"Ejector\", one of the few tracks here that threatens to come loose from its moorings. The addition of his voice does bring a welcome element of disorientation, with the song's trajectory aided by Jon Warren's extra percussion and an electronic shimmer that recalls the humid jazzfunk fusion of Herbie Hancock's Sextant. Even more surprising is the presence of pedal steel on \"The Happy Minotaur\"; a brief exercise that illustrates how much more intriguing Artanker Convoy can be when they alter just one or two ingredients in their formula. Cozy Endings comes packaged with an extra DVD of visuals supplied by the art and dance collective MUX, whose members have also frequently performed with Artanker Convoy in concert. And though the addition of these videos does greatly enhance the appeal of the album, they also serve to accentuate the impression that this music might be best appreciated when there's other sensual stimulation available at the same time.     "}