{"label":" Wichita","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10373/homepage_large.02ac2fd7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Euros Childs","title":"The Miracle Inn","text":" Halfway into Euros Childs' third solo album, one line pops out of the acoustic idyll: \"It's funny and it's strange/ How some things never change.\" What's especially funny is that, 10 years ago, things were quite different for Euros Childs: He was fronting Welsh psychpop wonders Gorky's Zygotic Mynci who, for a brief spell, were majorlabel mates with Hanson. But when you gauge Childs' songwriting sensibility, things really haven't changed though their weirdo name and early flirtations with costumed performance suggested a band of hippie crackpots, Gorky's were always firmly rooted in a Beatles/Beach Boys melodic tradition. And in his postGorky's solo career, Childs has been more than happy to play the housebound McCartney, stripping the songs down to an acoustic/piano base, with analogsynth tones enhancing the warm'n'fuzzy feeling. For Childs, the nostalgia trip goes beyond the 1970spop dressing pretty much every song on The Miracle Inn is centered around a wistful, comingofage remembrance. The lyrical images read like a \"Sesame Street\" script: red dresses, sunshine, trees, horses, bouncing balls. But while The Miracle Inn's breezy opening trifecta (\"Over You\", \"Horse Riding\" and \"Ali Day\") effectively captures the excitement of emergent puppy love, like all memories, the feeling is fleeting. If Childs now seems comfortably removed from the world of majorlabel hypemongering that, back in 1996, had some people trumpeting Wales as the next Seattle, the solemn hymnal \"Outside My Window\" tells a different story. Backed by a slowmotion bassdrum/cymbal beat and an organ drone that's almost funereal in its sense of defeat, Childs contrasts the joy of buying your first record with the soulcrushing experience of making them: \"Write a song and send it off/ Sign a contract and get ripped off.\" Though the song tacks on an optimistic denouement (\"It took a long time for you/ For the sun to come shining through\"), Childs effectively reminds us that nostalgia is not just a vehicle for remembering how great things were, but also for addressing how bad they've gotten now. To emphasize that point, Childs gives over The Miracle Inn's second side to a 15minute, sixpart titletrack suite that celebrates and eulogizes his favorite (and, given his smalltown upbringing, probably his only available) teenage hangout. But despite the song's prog parameters, the move is ultimately anticlimactic, the sections sounding more like discrete songs than complementary parts of a greater whole. The suite begins promisingly, introducing its sweet, ELOlike chorus and gradually increasing the rockout factor, with Childs and crew having a blast playing the role of the Inn's inhouse bar band. But the concept runs out of steam about halfway through as the mood shifts from frivolity to melancholy, partly because the predominant theme the impossibility of reliving the past has already been well covered by this point. Rather than serve as the album's triumphant climax, \"The Miracle Inn\" plays more like its summary. "}