{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10376/homepage_large.19ca3cf0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Various Artists","title":"This Is Next","text":"  \"Indie's Biggest Hits\"? \"Volume 1\"? \"NOW that's what I call indie!\" jokes aside, This Is Next is a baffling artifact of music biz cluelessness. Drawing one track each from 15 recent highprofile indie releases, This Is Next seeks to exploit indie's recent surge in popularity while entirely ignoring the cultural and technological shifts that have made this surge possible. I'm hard pressed to think of who the audience for this would be. Anyone with a cursory interest in the music featured on This Is Next would have no problem freely and legally downloading or streaming most of these songs. And, if you've never heard any of these artists, I can't imagine what about this compilation would compel you to take notice and suddenly drop 14 bucks at your local WalMart (certainly not the cover art). Even if This Is Next racks up plays at a clothing store or boutique or Starbucks, it would largely be competing with the latest releases from Sufjan Stevens, the Decemberists, or Feist not to mention every artist featured on This Is Next. So the more interesting question is, why does this exist? In many ways, This Is Next is a glorified promo sampler from Warnerowned indie distributor Alternative Distributor Alliance, which distributes every artist featured here. Unlike many comparable mid90s \"alternative\" samplers think the excellent DGC Rarities Volume 1 This Is Next makes no gestures towards unearthing rare or hardto find material. On the contrary, This Is Next compiles the most popular tracks (often the singles) from 15 wellpromoted releases, many of which already saw high chart placement on Billboard (Spoon's latest album, the most recently released record represented here, debuted at #10). For each of its artists, This Is Next offers the single track that a casual fan is most likely to already know and own. Thus, ADA's promotional strategy is at odds with that of the labels they distribute; while imprints like Merge and Sub Pop (the latter of which owns a 5% stake in ADA) often makes its artists' strongest tracks freely and easily available, This Is Next assumes a collection of those tracks will move units. While this strategy might have made sense in the 90s, when even major labelsigned \"alternative\" bands couldn't count on widespread promotion, it seems almost comically illsuited to this moment. As a listening experience, This Is Next is predictably lazy and disjointed, like the most nondescript college radio show imaginable. The sequencing is hardly revelatory, but how could it be? Would Neko Case into Bright Eyes into Of Montreal make more sense than Neko Case into Of Montreal into Deerhoof? If you're so inclined you can easily troll official artist and record label websites to find out for yourself. (Of course, we'd be remiss if we didn't mention that virtually every one of these songs has also been available to hear for free on our website.) It's hard to imagine a Spoon fan picking up this CD and discovering Sonic Youth for the first time; in fact, it's hard to imagine a Spoon fan or a fan of any of these artists picking up this CD at all. In a sense, This Is Next is totally dispensible; a silly and illadvised compendium of material freely available to anyone with the initiative to seek it out. But there's also something ominous about it. You don't need to look far to find the stated goal of This Is Next: To \"reach beyond the core album consumer and toward the casual buyer.\" This rhetoric is not new, and doesn't bode well for the tenuously symbiotic relationship between major and independent labels. As the retail market for independent music shifts from mom and pop stores to big box stores like WalMart and Best Buy, major labelowned distributors such as ADA are growing in size and influence. In a sense, it's a coup for independent labels, who can now get their music into some of the world's largest nonspecialty retailers. But ADA's halfassed and disingenuous attempt to bring indie rock to the \"casual consumer\" reeks of alltoofamiliar unrealistic expectations, and conjures unpleasant memories of the music industry's myriad failed attempts to engineer a \"breakthrough\" for independent music. Historically speaking, bad things tend to happen when major labels seek to impose their own promotional strategies on their independent partners. With independent music now bringing in money on a majorlabel scale, the possibility of such intervention (no Arcade Fire joke intended) looms large, and it usually doesn't end well for anybody. None of which is to say that indie rock shouldn't be reaching a large audience. Nobody wants good bands to fail, just as nobody wants to be that insufferable asshole fruitlessly trying to protect his favorite music from the uncool masses. Even so, as a shoddy, transparent, and poorly packaged ploy to sell indie rock cachet to the \"casual\" consumer, this compilation is far more condescending than some dude who gets pissed off when he sees a Shins CD at Starbucks. Not every attempt to bring underground music to a wider audience is praiseworthy, and the recent popular emergence of indie music is a product of circumstances that can't really be corralled or replicated. Ironically, these very circumstances stand to thoroughly undermine This Is Next. If nothing else, this album is a reminder that it's not the bands that sell out, it's the business.  "}