{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10377/homepage_large.33faa3c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Loren Mazzacane-Connors","title":"The Hymn of the North Star","text":"  It's a shame that most people will never hear the final 90 seconds of The Hymn of the North Star, a hybrid of two Loren Connors recordings from 2005 and 2006. Its first and likely only pressing 499 monolithic, black pieces of vinyl in a thick, goldtrimmed sleeve crowned by an apropos halflight, halfdark photo of Connors sold out soon after its release. Rightly so: Connors, now 57, makes music that pulls aged, cloudy film strips from minds, playing them at a tempo and in a setting he semaphores with six strings. His translations of the Delta blues and his more recent application of those spectral tones to pointillist atmospheres evoke things distant but uncomfortably familiar. Writing in the liner notes of Night Through, Connors' absolutely essential anthology released on Family Vineyard last year, Southern historian William Ferris said, \"His music moves like a butterfly that hovers over its blossom.\" That's essential.North Star is a cautiously romantic record, wide spaces floating between beautiful, sinister chords and torpid trickles of notes. For almost 28 minutes, Connors flirts with a verisimilar mix of hope and hell, painting scenes in improvised brushstrokes from his quiet electric guitar and onto a fourtrack in his Brooklyn apartment. Connors has often put notes and rests on the same pedestal, and North Star is no different: Instances during \"Part One\" bear properties of \"licks,\" but the right notes come broken with hesitation. Sweeping chords are succeeded by variations where a note is wrong or missing. Harmonics work sporadically. \"Part Four\", taken from a live collaboration with Alan Licht in Scotland, starts to feel light and springy. It eventually becomes a simple shadow. But during \"Part Five\", Connors gets loud and bright, stating and restating one sunny stroke, as if climbing towards something he can't see. Still, it stalls, his spirits settling to the low end of the guitar and relenting to a brief rumble. Even when he reaches for the same phrase near track's end, the notes don't have the same spirit, as though his joy has washed down a stream of steady decay. \"Part Six\" is the antithetical apex: Easily the shortest piece here, it is pure ascension. It's nothing if not beautiful, optimistic and perfect. This entire record sounds like selfdoubt and negation, all of the bright spots overrun by an imperfect picture of sadness. But \"Part Six\" rises right off the vinyl, its notes the aubade score for a dawn at the edge of a treacherous night. Six dozen notes in as many seconds: \"Part Six\" is gentle, almost trustworthy. Much like triumphant Sigur Rós tracks, the lift it promises pulls the audience along.  Connors was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease, a degenerative brain disorder that occurs when dopaminegenerating cells in a specific brain region are damaged, in 1992. He's gradually lost some of his mobility and strength, but, according to Family Vineyard owner Eric Weddle, the case for how much it has affected his guitar playing is more myth than reality. It's just that Connors despite having recorded 9,000 hours of music by 2000, according to Byron Coley isn't finished yet, musically or thematically. \"Parts 15\" show him perpetually searching for resolution but always falling from the mark. But in this closing passage, we see a brief, hopefully arrival. If you're willing to look for it, this record and the turmoil that presages its victory are devastating. May your search mimic Connors' own, limitededition metaphor.  "}