{"label":" Minty Fresh","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10387/homepage_large.6f66656d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Sarah Shannon","title":"City Morning Song","text":"  Though Sarah Shannon's voice was the perfect thing to soften the edges of Velocity Girl's beloved bubblegrunge, there was always a sense that the songs didn't really suit her strengths. Now eleven years after the group went the way of Spent and Jenifer Convertible, that's not a problem. From the smart Sinatraesque chapeau she sports on the City Morning Song cover, to the cover design (which, although appropriate, looks like someone turned the colored bars on the cover of V.G.'s ¡Simpatico! 90 degrees and then barfed on them), Shannon has created the perfect package to accompany her newest collection of wouldbe standards. Her 2002 solo debut hinted at such a direction, while also keeping a toe dipped in familiar waters (thanks in part to Pedro the Lion's Blake Wescott cowriting half the album's tracks). If you're looking for more hints of her indie pop/rock past in City Morning Song, you'll have to be satisfied with the shoutouts in the press materials. Most folks are probably playing the singersongwriter card in pigeonholing this record (either Carole King or Norah Jones), but if you're looking for a more appropriate reference point, think of the great American songbook Irving Berlin, the Gershwin Brothers, Cole Porter, and so on. In her review of Shannon's eponymous debut, Pitchfork's Alison Fields wished that Shannon would lend her rich, warm voice to an album of Porter tunes. Though this record might not fulfill Alison's wish, Shannon's approximation of this sort of songcraft she has a songwriting credit on every track, and flies solo on six of them is the next best thing. The album's chipper title track is the perfect opener, and it's not hard to imagine a video where Shannon dances down a city street like Gene Kelly. Elsewhere, she shows a knack for penning both conversational kissoffs (\"Near And Far\") and grandstanding showstoppers (\"Sunlit Smile\"). Ballads, like the forlorn \"Fading Heart\", or especially the hopeful \"Salton Sea\", are where she truly shines, her voice gliding soft and firm over the words. And the album's standout track, \"Watch Over You\" which just so happens to be the one track that sounds most like something her previous group would do finds Shannon's measured croon perfectly matching the song's pensive, expectant tempo.  Sometimes, Shannon sounds a little too much like she's trying to sing, instead of simply singing (think of the difference between Madonna singing \"Material Girl\" and Madonna singing Evita), and sometimes Shannon's songs have her reaching for high notes that her voice can't quite get ahold of. But besides those minor quibbles, City Morning Song is probably the best thing Shannon's ever been associated with. And though the album may have hit the shelves all the way back in February, its warmth and splendor are perfect as summer gives way to fall.  "}