{"label":" Wonder","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10385/homepage_large.d029629c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Louis Philippe","title":"An Unknown Spring","text":" Born Philippe Auclair in Normandy, France, but a London resident since 1987, Louis Philippe has an extensive indie pop résumé that belies his relatively low profile. In the 1980s, he released several elegant pop records for the shortlived él label alongside the likes of Momus, the Would Be Goods, and indie pop godheads Felt. After él folded in 1988, Philippe went on to record a series of solo albums drawing on such influences as, in his words, \"vintage pop, French chanson, Ravel, bossa nova, Duke Ellington, the Shirelles, or the Beach Boys.\" He has worked with UK pop institution Saint Etienne, been hailed as an inspiration by Japanese pop savant Cornelius, and, earlier this year, collaborated with Young Marble Giants frontman Stuart Moxham. As a string arranger, Philippe oversaw London indiepop group the Clientele's shift from their early sepia tones to the lush clarity of recent albums, including 2007's God Save the Clientele. On his first solo outing in three years, An Unknown Spring, Philippe again takes listeners to what él founder Mike Alway described as \"a pop fantasy world\", though it's also a world of classical sophistication. At a time when Scott Walker, Joanna Newsom, Sufjan Stevens, and Final Fantasy receive widespread critical acclaim, majestic orchestral confections like Philippe's sweetly romantic \"The Hill and the Valley\" or harmonybuttressed pop symphony \"Born Beautiful\" ought to find a properly appreciative audience. Along with bassoon, clavinet, horns, and all manner of organs, Philippe employs usual accomplices the Convent Garden String Quartet. But An Unknown Spring doesn't find beauty only in grandiose arrangements. The bare keyboards on much of brokenhearted \"Miss Lake\" or wideeyed finale \"WildEyed and Disheveled\" help showcase the indiepop veteran's sinuous melodies, which are rarely constrained by typical pop song forms. The Clientele's Alasdair MacLean and Mel Draisey add backing vocals to some tracks, joined by Norwegian singer/violinist Mari Person.An Unknown Spring has no drums. \"We had great fun with shakers, maracas, claves, rainsticks and odd bits and bobs that could be hit or thrown about,\" Philippe reports on his MySpace page. An admirably idiosyncratic aesthetic challenge so many decades into the rock era, this decision nevertheless underscores what many fans of groups like the Clientele may find to be a key stumbling block to enjoying An Unknown Spring: for all their technical sophistication, the songs can seem a bit too proper, too ephemeral. Philippe's fey, theatrical vocals and vaguely pastoral lyrics \"Gray swept over England/ Shadows ran across the ground,\" starts downcast opener \"No Sun, No Sky At All\" sometimes begin to blur into one another, like fuzzy memories of a pop fantasy world rather than the experience of one. \"Toi, Le Coeur de la Rose\" is a choral adaptation of Ravel, and to these ignorant, popweaned ears its lilting a cappella might benefit from a classical context.  For the uninitiated, Philippe maintains a generous online presence. Curious listeners should download the free mp3s from his site to catch up on the artist's previous work, particularly lavish 1998 album Azure. Philippe's early output for él seems also to have been especially unjustly overlooked. The closest An Unknown Spring comes to his 80s output work that should please fans of the Divine Comedy, the Postmarks, or littleknown New Orleans duo Hercules is the bossa novatinged \"Fallen Snow\". Like the High Llamas' Sean O'Hagan, a superb string arranger in his own right, Philippe is a baroquepop maestro with a firm grounding in the finest productions of the sunkissed 60s. Selfindulgent because it has every right to be, An Unknown Spring isn't perfect. But it's a fine opportunity for pop lovers to start rediscovering the vast oeuvre of a cosmopolitan original.  "}