{"label":" Highwheel","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10392/homepage_large.ae6061fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Arks","title":"The International","text":"  Calling Arks a onenote act would almost be a literal interpretation after hearing the opening title track of The International. Starting with a staccato snare beat, singer/guitarist Paul Hornschemeier (who's also a noted comic artist and writer, author of the fantastic Sequential among many others) barks in monotone like a lifeguard's warning, and the guitars and bass follow suit, all layering onto one tone in lockstep rhythm. The song barely varies on the chorus, letting the notes reverberate for a few moments while the singer scrounges just enough melody to make up a hook. It's one of the more economical openers I've heard lately, and it certainly sets the tone for the rest of the record.The International is a mix of familiar underground sounds with peculiar execution, cobbling songs together from loose, jagged shards of melody, suggesting and insinuating hooks rather than laying them out for the listener. From second track \"Candor\" on, Arks establish an unusual tension, with songs that never quite go the direction you'd expect. However, they often go from one obvious influence to the next without even so much as a segue, \"Candor\" among them. They've made some unusual choices there, too: Girls Against Boys are not a band you often hear referenced, nor do they get loads of accolades in hindsight. I'm pleased to hear them nodded to, in the surprise breakdown of \"Candor\" and many other places on The International. However, GvsB themselves hovered on the precipice of parody, and aping them is a tricky thing without sounding like an aspiring sleaze at best, and a charmless Nic Offer at worst. Hence the Jekyll/Hyde vocals of \"Candor\" sound more incongruous than they should, and the loungelizard verses to choked rants on the chorus of \"Cars on Fire\" is a little hard to take seriously. The album's middle section is no less indebted, but a little more focused. The clean, singlenote guitar parts nod to the sprawling peaks of the Cure's career, as does Hornschemeier's more insistent wail. Falling in these footsteps suits them better, as they take the time to develop a groove and a more noticeable, moodier atmosphere than the record's swaggering first third the sparse stretch of \"Customs\" especially seems to fold restlessness of the title track into a careful tribute. Hornscheimer also lays back on that one, and he shows good instincts throughout when he doesn't have to lead the pack. He only mutters a few disdainful words over the verses in \"Safe and Sound\", knowing well enough to let the minimal horrorcamp atmosphere take the foreground, and punching in on the chorus when needed. It's a shame that it's one of the few moments where the band picks up the slack melodically, as that and the squealing grind of \"Silver\" are easy standouts here.  The cumulative mood of the songs on The International seems to hint towards omnipresent, lowlevel paranoia, though primarily through snippets of lyrics and the ghostly reverb of the guitars. The vibe gets across, but mostly because the record feels claustrophobic and homogeneous. Though many of it's songs aren't much more than the sum of their influences, collectively, they have an odd, stilted swagger all their own. Arks' debut is still pretty derivative, but it sounds like they're learning the right lessons.  "}