{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10393/homepage_large.b0eedc87.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Liars","title":"Liars","text":"  When Liars released Drum's Not Dead last year, they convinced naysayers that their turn towards dank improvisation on 2004's critically reviled They Were Wrong, So We Drowned was part of some masterplan: It was seemingly the perfect refinement of Drowned's experiments in noise and rhythm. A year later, they've taken another hardleft turn. With the band's expectationdefying back story, the surface way to read the new Liars is that it's the murky, artdamaged sound of their last few albums with the rock reattached. Here, the raw two and threechord rigor of punk, 1960s garage (and even pop), and early 70s hard rock reasserts itself over the haunted sound of Drum's Not Dead's tricky, Krautish polyrhythms. Much of Liars is rhythmically simplistic even brutish giving it an unexpected caveman thrill after the more cerebral Drum. In some ways, it hearkens back to the beefy punkfunk of the band's earliest material, where they bulked up the skinnylegged skronk of the Gang of Four and James Chance on a meatandpotatoes diet. But in other ways this heft feels totally new classic rock moves melted into a noisy reduction. \"Clear Island\" and \"Plaster Casts of Everything\" both throb to the kind of riffs and howling keyboards that go right for the American rock fan's lizard brain. In essence, Liars is scorchedblacktop biker music played through the artrock filter of a band that's spent the last few years steeped in the bleak sounds of German new wave and early industrial. The riffs may be shackled to just a few notes, or restrained to a shrieking drone, but these are undeniably songs about the Power of the Guitar, not songs colored by atmospheric flecks of fuzz and feedback. The rhythm section's Mo Tuckerish momentum moves with the muscle mass of ZZ Top and the artless abandon of an upstart punk band. Liars have always been mesmerizing on stage even if that's often meant Angus Andrew flailing around in a soiled dress as much as the musicianship but Liars is the first time in a long time that live intensity has really come through on CD.  Of course, this being a Liars record, unpredictability is a foregone conclusion, and the band's turn to heavy metal thunder only makes up a fraction of the album's songs. Elsewhere the group shows a flair for grotty pop pastiche that must have previously been buried under all that jagged percussion. \"Freak Out\" is such a dead ringer for the Spectorspooked feedbackpop of the Jesus and Mary Chain right down to winkingly dumb \"rock'n'roll\" song title that it's impossible to ignore and likewise no accident on the band's part. \"Pure Unevil\" is shoegaze/dream pop if it had been concocted in a damp nuclear bunker rather than a paisley hippie crash pad. The song reverberates with a sickly but seductive metallic echo, with the drums and Andrew's voice coming from the opposite ends of a milelong sewer pipe and the lonesome guitar zigzagging off the slimy walls between them.  The inspiration behind \"Pure Unevil\" is less obvious than the outright homage of \"Freak Out\", but both offer newly tweaked takes on 80s British rock that are echoed in \"Houseclouds\", where the baggy funk rhythm and creaky organ sound like what might have resulted had the Happy Mondays set sail for Bowie's Berlin rather than the illfated Barbados trip that produced Yes, Please. It's these laconic, menacing, and almost pretty moments that leaven Liars, adding skewed hooks to a band more infamous (rightly or wrongly) for willful noise and studio jamming. The murk (dub by way of stoner rock) remains constant throughout and moments of past inscrutability occasionally stop the record dead in its tracks. (\"Leather Prowler\" and \"The Dumb in the Rain\" go for that same kind of ethereal menace as \"Pure Unevil\" and get to the level of practice space dicking around.) But if Liars flowed smoothly, instead of stopping occasionally to worry at its scabs or piss all over the couch, it wouldn't be a Liars album.  Instead, hairy warts and all, the album is another scriptflipping overhaul from a band that too often gets forgotten when folks start toting up 21st century rock's front line. Inevitably some will claim the album is a concession designed to appease those who ditched the band when the band ditched the rock. But if it doesn't quite confound like They Were Wrong or thrill like Drum's Not Dead, Liars still finds the band ignoring whatever you thought you wanted or needed from them, and doing what they damn well please. Just don't expect the next one to sound anything like it.  "}