{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10386/homepage_large.4799ade2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Tiny Vipers","title":"Hands Across the Void","text":"  Occasionally mentioned in the prerelease press for Jesy Fortino's first LP as Tiny Vipers is her stage fright hands trembling while tuning her guitar, that sort of thing. Her trepidation, however, doesn't come from a lack of faith in her material as much as her avoidance of eye contact with the imminent indie inebriants impatiently waiting for a sort of music they're not going to get. Fortino, who included a 30minute song on an early CDR, distances herself from the confessional singer/songwriter idiom with more than just her serpentine bandonym, creating music more appropriate for gallery spaces than indie clubs. Hands Across the Void is, in the nonimbibing sense of the term, as sobering as folk music gets: patient, resonant, and perhaps most importantly, curious. Early copy has also frequently mentioned two predecessors for Fortino's approach: early Cat Power and Joanna Newsom. Chan Marshall is the obvious mark in terms of Void's spaciousness and solitude, and both women do well to push listeners out of their comfort zones, but Fortino's sense of yearning is less romantic and more spiritual. Newsom's Ys comes to mind through \"Shipwreck\"'s madrigal melody, but the resemblance is superficial, evidenced most clearly in the song's refrain: \"We want to struggle and survive/ We want to live 'cause we know that life is beautiful/ Though surreal at times.\" The distinction lies not in the simplicity of the lyrics, but their qualification instead of celebration of the world's occasional inexplicability.Void's music is as gently inquisitive as the artwork that accompanies it. Across a series of six photographs in the packaging, Fortino explores various dimly illuminated locales, accompanied only by a lantern. The record's title most likely refers to the sort of reinforcement that helps with the imperceptible problems of life. Important in that description, however, is Fortino's personal journey. Her accompaniment throughout is deliberate and twilit: a selftaught guitar style foregrounding the metallic thrum of its strings; an ashen voice harmonizing with a younger version of itself, often simply with vocabled \"oh\"s; inexplicable trills of sound filtering in from nowhere.  On \"Campfire Resemblance\", Fortino draws an analogy between a campfire's function warmth first, then vision and that of a lantern, which illuminates only its most immediate surroundings, allowing the cold comfort of careful, measured exploration. The Gaelictinged \"On This Side\" follows, and she searches for the fortitude necessary to dig her way \"through the dust\": \"Ride on my sailors/ Deep in my mind/ I've always believed in you/ Now throw me a line.\"  Untethered, fire's destructive potential can be devastating, and also transfixing to take in. \"Forest on Fire\", the first of Void's two epics, traces the continuum of terror and captivation. The last four of the song's six minutes are wordless, occupied only by a simple, climbing and repeating guitar figure and a looming sense of disquiet. The acoustic guitar comes to resemble a resolutely flickering flame slowly morphing into, and eventually overtaken by, swirling, discordant noise. The song devours itself, and there's no good reason to turn away. Void's liner notes thank \"the people of Tibet and their struggle against the Chinese occupation,\" and Fortino reclaims a Dharmic cultural icon on the nearly 11minute album summit \"Swastika\". The symbol's earliest and most widespread incarnation was as a sign of good luck, and a sense of hope pervades the song, which is divided into two equal parts. The first half is a series of Zenlike koans: \"If dark were overthrown by the light/ Would the light turn to day/ Would it all turn to gray?\" During the second section, the guitar takes on a chiming timbre, accompanied by an otherworldly drone of indistinct purpose: is it a sign of transcendence, or an admonition to pay closer attention? \"You got a lot to carry,\" Fortino informs, \"but once you're there, you stay.\" She refuses to offer any information as to whether that outcome is actually a good thing, but casts a blessing regardless.  Jesy Fortino's music is and will continue to be classified using adjectives like \"spare\" and \"haunting,\" but those terms fail in terms of its emotional content. The 24year old is publicly coming to terms with her interpretive skills as well as her own demons, and is doing it through an intensely vulnerable medium to boot. In that regard, Hands Across the Void, in its myriad attempts at radiance, is actually quite inspirational. "}