{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10391/homepage_large.69ac5e42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Mick Harvey","title":"Two of Diamonds","text":"  Mick Harvey is one of the many musicians few have heard of but most have heard. The Australian multiinstrumentalist has been Nick Cave's righthand man for decades in the Boys Next Door, the Birthday Party, and the Bad Seeds and was also a member of Crime & the City Solution in addition to scoring numerous films. This is his fourth solo album, and it follows right in the path of his previous three darkly tinged versions of other people's songs and a few originals, all engineered for closing time. His first two solo albums, 1995's Intoxicated Man and 1997's Pink Elephants, were Englishlanguage tributes to Serge Gainsbourg, and his last, 2005's One Man's Treasure, drew from the catalogs of Lee Hazlewood, Scott Walker, and other outsiders. On Two of Diamonds, Harvey sandwiches three originals around a largely well selected batch of other people's tunes, primarily fellow Australians, including the Triffids, the Saints, the Loved Ones, and his own Crime & the City Solution. As an interpreter, Harvey is also an unabashed stylist, and he brings everything he touches into his slow tempo, lowlight world, making it his own. His voice is good for it, not overtly powerful, but still deep and commanding; he sometimes sounds like he's singing to himself, but with this music, that approach actually works. One of his best selections here is the Triffids' \"Everything Is Fixed\", which he and his band turn into a burning, bluesy electroacoustic number, with standup bass and acoustic slide guitar balanced against crunching electric guitar and organ. His take on Bill Withers' \"I Don't Want You on My Mind\" replaces the original's funky blues edge with droning menace, and James Johnston adds an excellent slide guitar solo in the middle. Perhaps the album's best cover, though, is the sharp, brooding version of Aussie rock pioneers the Loved Ones' \"Sad Dark Eyes\". He leans right into the song's triple meter, and while his vocal isn't as intense as the original's on the chorus, he makes up for it by layering on Yardbirdsy harmonies and building it up dramatically.  His three originals stand up next to the other material. \"SlowMotionMovieStar\" is the best of the three, proceeding methodically along a static chord progression as guitars swell and drop, cutting like saws through the song's solid underlying texture. If there's a problem on the album, it's that outside of the numerous highlights, it does tend to blur a bit. Harvey relies heavily on his formidable skills as an arranger to differentiate tracks from each other this serves his ascendant, shuffling version of Manu Chao's \"Out of Time Man\" perfectly, but on tracks with builtin melodies that aren't quite as distinctive the result is more atmospheric than memorable. Two of Diamonds ultimately works best as a mood piece.  "}