{"label":" Engine Room","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10397/homepage_large.924bd831.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Guilt by Association","text":"  Do guilty pleasures even exist anymore? It seems like everything, no matter how reviled, can be argued as legitimate and meaningful with varying sincerity and irony ratios. After all, Justin \"N'Sync\" Timberlake (deservedly) scored Pitchfork's top single of 2006, and last week Chris Dahlen interviewed Daryl Hall. Maybe you scoff, but guilt is totally subjective: What shames one listener may be openly admired by another. Besides, pleasure is pleasure, whether you find it in Rock Plaza Central, New Young Pony Club, R. Kelly, or Sixpence None the Richer. Maybe it's just a misnomer: A guilty pleasure might just be a song that doesn't conform to your typical listening habits, in which case it can become an important horizon expander. If that happens, though, the song also becomes an integral part of those same listening habits. My (admittedly anecdotal) evidence: Not too long ago, I read a blog entry on guilty pleasures, and the comments section quickly became a very intense game of oneupmanship as readers proudly announced their own guilty pleasures. Where was the guilt in all the grandstanding? Into this forum steps New York City's Engine Room Recordings, which spent three years coaxing 15 indie artists into covering their own guilty pleasures. The longinthemaking album is called Guilt by Association, and the covers are as dubious as that title. Either by design or by accident, the compilation seems to define the term as anything that is not white, male, hetero indie rock, revealing the casual elitism in the idea that one style of music is somehow more legitimate than another. Nobody's covering Har Mar Superstar here, although more than a few acts manage to turn 1970s rock or contemporary r&b into white, male, hetero indie rock. Apologies to Superchunk, but is \"Say My Name\" really a guilty pleasure? Do we need a folksy \"sensitive\" reading of System of a Down's \"Chop Suey\" to convince us that headbangers might have something interesting to say? Guilt by Association is just a strange collection of songs, with curious highs and lows that make it sound like an update on early 90s comps like Super Fantastic Mega Smash Hits or Star Power! (on which artists rescued songs like \"I'm Not in Love\" and \"The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia\" from KTel obscurity). The highs include Goat's take on \"Sugar, We're Going Down\", the disc's most recent source material and emo's sole representative, even if his quieter, mockserious arrangement manages to sap some of the selfsatisfaction from Fall Out Boy's lyrics. Luna reinterprets Paula Abdul's ultimatum \"Straight Up\" as a desperately codependent anthem, and Devendra Banhart grafts bossa nova rhythms to Oasis' \"Don't Look Back in Anger\", making it so coyly seductive that the original seems comparatively hamfisted. Between this and his version of Antony's \"Fistful of Love\", Banhart might consider a covers album next.  The comp's best track, though, is its first: Petra Haden's inventive reconsideration of Journey's \"Don't Stop Believin'\". \"The Sopranos\" may have forever lifted it out of a cheeseball ghetto it never deserved, but Haden's version, recorded before the series ended, joyfully recreates the song through multitracked, a cappella vocalizations (her duel guitars are the clincher) that are downright affectionate, preserving the song's rock'n'roll romance even as she breaks into Wilson Phillips' \"Hold On\" during the outro.  But amazingly, Guilt by Association doesn't hold onto that feeling and actually stops believin'. For every spirited rendition here, there's an uninspired runthrough or an apathetic rehash. Mark Mulcahy makes \"From This Moment On\" sound safe for Starbucks everywhere; Jim O'Rourke just makes the Spice Girls' \"Viva Forever\" sound dour; and the Mooney Suzuki's retread of \"Just Like Jesse James\" goes limp without Cher's theatricality. Eddie Money's \"Two Tickets to Paradise\" gets the folksy treatment from Karate frontman Geoff Farina, totally destroying the original's sense of \"speeding down the highway with the windows rolled down\" freedom. Not even bothering to meet the song halfway, his version embodies the compilation's most discouraging problem: Risking so little adventurousness or unpredictability, too many of these artists really do sound like they feel guilty.  "}