{"label":" Stax","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10399/homepage_large.6b282338.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Wattstax","text":"  As the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles was still reeling from the effects of the riots that tore it apart in 1966, a different epicenter of black culture was taking similar pains to recover and rebuild. Stax Records was hit with a series of events in the span of a year that would have sunk almost any other independent label: Warner Bros. bought Stax distributor Atlantic Records, swiping the Stax master tapes and distribution rights from label cofounder Jim Stewart. A December 1967 plane crash claimed the lives of marquee star Otis Redding and all but two members of session band the BarKays. And five months afterwards, Martin Luther King a man who embodied the raciallyintegrated social philosophy that Stax couldn't exist without was assassinated in the same Memphis motel where Steve Cropper and Eddie Floyd cowrote the #1 r&b hit \"Knock on Wood\". But as Stax's fortunes changed in the early 70s bolstered by the success of artists like Isaac Hayes, the Staple Singers and Johnnie Taylor a combination of financial uninhibitedness and social goodwill drove the label to organize a concert that would both showcase the label's expanding roster and serve as an inspiration to a community that the outside world considered secondclass. Seven years after their first revue tour outside Memphis saw a number of their artists stranded in Los Angeles during the Watts riots, Stax returned to L.A. and put on one hell of a show. Some called it \"the Black Woodstock\", which isn't completely accurate; the cost was a dollar more than free, everyone on the bill was great (Albert King or Sha Na Na? Not a hard choice), and the attendees tended to dress a lot better. As a concert, film, and live recording, Wattstax is possibly the definitive r&b festival; only James Brown's shows have packed more energy and showmanship into a live set, and every artist from the Oscarwinning Hayes to the nohit wonders that gigged in clubs around town in the week before the main event at the Los Angeles Coliseum is either at the peak of their artistic powers or damn well plays like it. Stax's 3xCD box set commemorating the event, rereleased in the general vicinity of its 35th anniversary (though this particular collection first appeared in 2003), isn't the most important document of the show that'd be the concert film, directed by Mel Stuart (less than two years removed from Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory) but it's easy to get an idea of every extra moment that made the whole experience legendary: Kim Weston's rendition of black national anthem \"Lift Every Voice and Sing\", Richard Pryor's comic yet cutting interstitials, and the Reverend Jesse Jackson's legendary introduction, which incorporated his poem \"I Am  Somebody\" into a 100,000strong callandresponse. The concert proper is wellrepresented here, and it goes a long way toward showing how Stax was able to stay solvent in the early 70s even without longtime standbys like Sam & Dave or Booker T. & the M.G.'s. Not that there isn't any of the old guard represented here: Eddie Floyd busts his ass during a forceful rendition of \"Knock on Wood\", where he spends just about every moment he's not singing urging the crowd to get up and clap their hands. Carla Thomas reaches even further back, peppering her extensive set with a roll call of r&b's phases in the 60s, from 1960's postdoowop classic \"Gee Whiz (Look at His Eyes)\" (which gets an absolutely rapturous response from the first syllable) to 1966's slice of prime Hayes/Porter r&b \"BABY\" to the churning, Southernfried soulfunk of 1969's \"I Like What You're Doing (To Me)\". And Carla's father Rufus, one of Stax's first hitmakers and a graying 55 at the time, commands the stage with a rapidfire succession of his iconic dancecraze songs likeably dippy novelties on record, but live they were the catalyst for a glorious stagerushing Funky Chicken contest.  The postAtlantic hitmakers are just as powerful. The BarKays hit the ground running with a medley of \"Son of Shaft\" and \"Feel It\": the former is a funk explosion that makes the original Isaac Hayes composition sound like an exercise in restraint, while the latter is a sick, organheavy extended vamp with a memorably lascivious monologue (\"I'm told that havin' fun is like havin' sex: That is, the more you put in to it, the more you're gonna get out of it\"). David Porter, who started coming into his own as a performer at the end of the 60s after years of songwriting, is featured in a 20plusminute orchestral soul suite that devotes ten and a half minutes to the heartbreak ballad \"Can't See You When I Want To\", the most epic and gutwrenching performance included in the set. And Johnnie Taylor who had 12 r&b top 10 singles for Stax from 1968 to 1974 turns his slinky, sly love song \"Steal Away\" into smooth, upbeat protodisco that sees Philadelphia International cresting over the horizon and fires right back.  Where the new box set differs greatly from previous records devoted to the concert is in its breadth, especially with unreleased performances. Over a third of the material here is previously unavailable, and much of it is devoted to the alsoran artists that never cracked the r&b top ten but didn't fail for lack of trying: belter Lee Sain's gutbucket contribution to the Great Hot Pants Frenzy of 1971, \"Them Hot Pants\"; the Temprees' velvety falsetto showcase \"Explain it to Her Mama\"; Louise McCord's raw, Arethaesque \"Better Get a Move On\". You could come to the conclusion that a few of these come at the expense of a few crucial omissions, some more forgivable than others; Isaac Hayes is represented solely by \"Theme from Shaft\" (though a more complete set is available on the musthave Isaac Hayes at Wattstax), while Luther Ingram's smoldering infidelity ode \"If Loving You Is Wrong (I Don't Want to Be Right)\" is only available on the Wattstax: Highlights from the Soundtrack comp that this set makes mostly redundant. But that's searching for complaints. The box set still captures the concert's spirit intact, and the Reverend Jackson's introduction delivers as precise a summary as you'd hope for: \"We know that music is music, all of our people got a soul, our experience determines the texture, the taste, and the sound of our soul...all of us are one people, singin' our music, popping our fingers and doing our thing.\" "}