{"label":" Sleeping Bag","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10402/homepage_large.7882819a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Arthur Russell","title":"24->24 Music","text":" People telling Arthur Russell's story always string along facts of his life like they were contradictions: He was a gay cellist from a 10,000person town in Iowa who pondered the fineries of Indian music at a Buddhist retreat in California before shipping off to New York , where he fell in with the boho art crowd and the disco crowd, profoundly impacting both. If anything, Russell's music whether it was disco, classical, or avantgarde folkwas always a distillation of all these elements. On this website in 2004, Andy Beta suggested the collection The World of Arthur Russell add an \"s\" to the word \"world,\" but that would rob Russell of his quiet brilliancethe harmony of disparate ideas.Dinosaur L was a band produced and directed by Russell. In 1978, they released \"Kiss Me Again\", one of the first disco singles released on Sire records. The opening gambit was unambiguous, even by meatmarket standards: \"I want you inside me/ Yes, that is the plan.\" But this was Russell: trenchant and immediate, but with manners to his syntax. He was a peacenik. He wrote a song called \"You Can Make Me Feel Bad\"; he wrote about going swimming and treehouses a city youth lusting for country peace and once quipped that \"grownups are crazy.\" The poet Allen Ginsberg, who Russell accompanied on cello for some readings, remembered the singer as saying he wanted to make \"Buddhist bubblegum music.\"Both play into 24>24 Music, Dinosaur L's one fulllength album. Recorded in 1979 and released in 82 on Russell and colleague William Socolov's Sleeping Bag Records, it's disco at its loosest, warmest, and weirdest. The band, a nobrow, nocontext hash of veteran session men like the Ingram Brothers and avantgarde voyagers like Jill Kroesen, fumble with disco like it was a third language. Most of it's alluringly ugly and unkempt, not traditionally virtues on the dance floor. And dance music's paradoxical ideal infinity, but, you know, with more climaxesis abandoned for something more aimless and continual. The random punctuations in lines like \"I wanna go bang\" or interruptive keyboard clusters have more to do with John Cage than disco's repetition. Then again, not going anywhere in particular while sustaining motion is a possibility monks consider for a lifetime.Call it disco (not disco), to borrow a phrase from Strut records. Or, call it one ideal of disco. Like how Russell manged to retain his roots and seem New York (not New York). His classic is still 1986's World of Echo, a swirl of voice, cello, and electronics, made solo. The goal was simple: to erase the borders between interior and exterior by making a record that sounded like the whispers in someone's head, refracted through the city. He never reached the same heights of spirit in his disco work (and incidentally, The World of Arthur Russell is almost a better place to start for neophytes to his disco side, collecting not only the best Dinosaur stuff, but sides recorded as Loose Joints and under his own name). Russell's legacy seems more formidable the more prolific and expansive it is, and 24>24 Music falls in a long line of deserved reissues of the most ambitiously scattered music brains of his short time. "}