{"label":" Nacional","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10413/homepage_large.cee0a8b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Manu Chao","title":"La Radiolina","text":"  Manu Chao makes music that cuts across cultural lines. As though singing in seven languages (French, Spanish, Galician, Arabic, English, Portuguese, and Wolof) wasn't enough, he brings aspects of music from across Western Europe, North Africa, and the Americas into his sound. You could say he was destined to live a life between cultures from the start. He was born in Paris to Spanish parents who had fled Franco's regime. His mother was from Bilbao, in Basque country, while his father was a journalist from Galicia, a region in far northwestern Spain that, like Basque country, has its own unique language. Chao isn't a big name in the U.S., but American listeners shouldn't let that fool them he's immensely popular in Europe and Latin America, and he has ties to and fans within leftist organizations all over the globe. His second band, the Clashinfluenced Mano Negra, was named for a Spanish anarchist organization, and these days he mixes his criticism of the Bush Administration with praise for the Zapatistas of Mexico's Chiapas state. This is all to say that behind that superbright artwork and the smiling cover shot, there's a lot of multilingual political agitation on La Radiolina, his third internationally released solo album. His last two LPs, 1998's Clandestino and 2001's Proxima Estacion: Esperanza (Next Station: Hope), both moved away from the heavily punkinfluenced sound of his early bands, though not completely. It was just that the influence of reggae, salsa, dub, European and South American folk, and other things rose to equal the sounds that guided his music early on. As a result, those two albums were exciting journeys across continents that were essentially impossible to absorb fully on one or even two listens. They rewarded repeat listening richly, though, and La Radiolina does much the same.  Chao's albums tend to be fragmented affairs, and this record's 21 songs in 51 minutes certainly bear that out, but his fragmentation usually doesn't hinder the flow of his ideas. On a first pass, the most immediately noticeable thing about La Radiolina is how relatively rockedup it is relative to its two predecessors. It's as though his old affiliation with the Latin Alternative movement and punk decided to reassert themselves. Mind you, it's not the kind of rock that's going to smack you around with its riffs and stomping drums this is more measured than that, and cut with so many global influences that it can't help sounding unique.  The surging lead single \"Rainin' in Paradize\" is about as straightahead with its rock as Chao gets here. It has a lead guitar that plays an insidiously catchy part low in the mix, a technique repeated elsewhere on the album, and Chao's nasal, doubletracked voice lends it an ingratiating vibe that a more growling or strident delivery might have wiped away. \"Me Llaman Calle\" has an acoustic, CubanoIberian feel, with claves and fluttering flamenco guitar. The album delves heavily and very successfully into a fullon Cuban passage at the beginning of its final third \"Mala Fama\" is the album's most haunting song with its swaying rhythms and snaking, muted horns.  In between, the album touches on a dizzying array of textures and rhythms, alternating acoustic setups with electric ones, bringing in horn sections and dispensing with them just as quickly. The overall feeling is that of a series of thoughts contained within songs, none of which is quite complete without those around them. It behaves almost as a suite, though there two or three short movements that could have been dropped without consequence. For instance, the sirens that form part of the texture of \"El Hoyo\" didn't need a loud reprise in \"Panik Panik\", which takes an interesting idea too far, marring the album's late flow.  Manu Chao is living proof that you don't have to be big in the U.S. to be one of the world's most important and influential musicians, and La Radiolina provides a healthy reminder it's a big world out there beyond our borders. Plus, it's pretty much impossible not to pump your fist along to a charging track like the hornsoaked \"Tristeza Maleza.\" The album is not as wholly satisfying as either Clandestino or Esperanza, mostly due to a handful of truncated, underdeveloped tracks toward the end, but it's still full of excellent songs and inspired collisions.  "}