{"label":" Editions Mego","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10417/homepage_large.7d24e487.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Tujiko Noriko","title":"Solo","text":"  Tujiko Noriko's songs have an origamilike quality: cute and delicate, with a sense of flatness given shape. After hopping from label to label, and dabbling in filmmaking, she has come to Editions Mego, the reconfigured version of the Viennese label that released her gorgeous 2001 album Shojo Toshi, to put out the aptly titled Solo. Mellower than her past two Mego releases, her new record finds Noriko going it alone, contorting the level planes of pop with her mobile, avantgarde imagination. Sounding like a patchwork of radio static, outdoor sounds, snippets of recorded strums, and the naked human voice, her music might be captured transmissions from the id, an amalgam of airwave junk reconstituted as art. Earthly nature sneaks in: The synthesizers approximate birds chirping and insects skittering (\"Sun!\"), burps and bowel movements (\"Gift\"). Add the warm rushes of melody, and you have Noriko's brand of Rabelaisian science fiction for the ears: a warble that softly grades into a dirty, otherworldly terrain. Not that the city lights of her native Japan and adopted France, past and present, don't spill through the haze. There's a sultry, moonlit glimmer to \"Spot\" that would fit nicely inside French chanson, but that's it for onetoone parallels. When asked by Japanese magazine Shift how Paris has shaped her music, Noriko freeassociated a better answer: \"Desolation, lassitude, reactionary.\" Copyrighted, potentially, as Mitt Romney's campaign slogan, the three enigmatic nouns capture the breeze of postriot, Chiracera pessimism blowing through her album's happy textures.  If France imparts mood, Japan lends order. Unlike Björk, whose glaciershattering contralto tends to tyrannize her tracks, Noriko's humbler voice melts discreetly into a democracy of sound. Both women use their voices as instruments, but Noriko views her own merely as one among many: first among equals. So, you might say, she shares more with her fellow Japanese artists, the generation that includes Sachiko M, the onkyo queen of texture, ambient idol Miharu Sochi, and After Dinner's Haco, the rock star turned sound bricoleur.  There is a healthy amount of disorder, too: As Noriko's fans would expect, Solo avoids the schematic heretothere, beeline routes of Japanese pop. \"Spot\" may come the closest. Flickering inside these songs are the surreal motions of mental wanderlust, a weighty randomness that suggests the dislocations and spasms of reverie. Like the paper crane, like a dream, the wonders of Solo are rooted in metamorphosis.  By turns tender and abstract, tracks like \"Ending Kiss\" (where she teams up with Hideki Ataka) and \"In a Chinese Restaurant\" seem to endlessly outpace expectations. They begin roughly as ballads, before offtime drums, thundering like distant artillery, rattle the pop scaffolding loose. We try to predict the next twist, how Noriko will dynamite whatever ornate façade she's been handcrafting carefully before us.  With the opening track's overlapping evolutions from whispery singspeak into delicate coos into multitracked echoes, from clicks and knocks into shakers and rewound samples we should have been prepared for the zigzagged road ahead. Noriko is too inventive, too capricious, or simply too short on concentration, for our sluggish brains to catch up.  "}