{"label":" Recordcollection","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10419/homepage_large.5d325962.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Brother Reade","title":"Rap Music","text":"  When it comes to hiphop, North Carolina's latitude, which puts it squarely between the genre's temples in the Northeast and the Deep South, makes it tough to align with a Billboardproven aesthetic. You can almost see the map, part of a PowerPoint slideshow in some major label conference room. But Brother Reade aka Jimmy Jamz and producer Bobby Evans, a DJMC partnership in the mold of Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince don't believe it's so black and white. After joining forces in WinstonSalem under the banner of punk rock, they later traded rowdiness, on 2005's The Illustrated Guide To: 9 to 5 EP, for ragged warmth and an unassumingly witty, everyman charm. But after programming beats in the land of Nascar, Jamz and Evans eventually fled to Los Angeles. \"Like Duh\", the first single off Rap Music, their fulllength debut, sticks it to their adopted home. A typical couplet: \"Nobody walks in L.A./ Nobody got a job in L.A.\" Laziness is a target in their caricature of the city equal parts \"Entourage\" and Annie Hall but so is attitude. Jamz counsels a starryeyed youngster that, in this glitzy antiutopia, he doesn't need to be rich or cool: he simply has to \"be the fuckyou.\" His message of lowkey rebelliousness calmly rehashes their old punk ethos: under the glare of Tinseltown, to be yourself, you have to incarnate subversion. The taptaptap of an organ keeps the mood, with the lyrics, far below the boiling point. Evans' mesmerizing work behind the boards quietly steals the show. He glides serenely between eerie, hallucinatory atmospherics the foundation of ElP's work and a barebones, Deep South take on boombap. And it suits the material. For example, \"Let's Go\" sits on top of a spartan, bleak pattern of thuds, a beat that suggests bricks banging around in a dryer. Somehow, its strangeness calls attention to itself without turning obnoxious, selfdeprecating and selfaggrandizing at the same time, like Jamz's paradox of the middleclass MC: \"No trap fame, no crack cocaine/ But the world needs a Kurt Cobain with a chain.\"  Yet unlike ElP, Evans lets the tracks breathe, and never succumbs to the former's fondness for nervous and suffocating density. Using a minimum of tools, he creates a glum grandeur without sacrificing clearness and capaciousness. It makes sense: this duo doesn't have ElP's acid and anger. They tell small stories. Apart from Eminem, whose hardscrabble Detroit origin myth was colorfully vindicated in Eight Mile, the white rapper seems de facto barred from overly gritty subjects. So they resort to the less sensational odysseys of everyday life, as Brother Reade does on \"Life Ain't Easy for Ya'll\" and \"The Marcie Song\", which tells a former sexist's Byzantine story of conversion from macho artist to feminist. Unfortunately the latter suffers from Jamz' rushing monotone, which outpaces the sleek, undulating synthesizer pulse. Rap Music: so standoffishly humble, so extravagantly matteroffact. But the duo made a very conscious decision with this title, and they bring the right attitude: respect. White guilt plays a complicated role, as usual. Hiphop has a grand history, beyond just rapping, and naturally opportunists grind the term's meaning away when they use it as an easy stamp of authenticity. Radiating their usual mixture of entitlement and deference, in a Stop Smiling interview, Brother Reade elaborated. \"The authenticity of our music is not in question to me,\" they said. \"Our music is rap music.\"  "}