{"label":" Kemado","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13528/homepage_large.708725bb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Turzi","title":"A","text":" Whatever stereotypes you have reserved for French music acts, fivepiece Turzi probably won't meet any of them. Handpicked by Air for their Record Makers label, where Turzi released their Made Under Authority EP in 2005, the band shares little in common with its more prominent compatriots. You won't find the techno bombast of Daft Punk or Justice, the sultry bedroom orchestrations of Air, or even the cokedusted 1980s electro of Kavinsky. Instead, Turzi infuse A with a litany of austere, cerebral European sounds meant to accompany primary songwriter Romain Turzi's vision quest through history.Attila the Hun, Mozart, and Jesus Christ, among other historical celebs, receive shoutouts amidst a sensory overload of krautrock, psych, and shoegaze. Says Turzi in the band's press release, \"Music, whether you are initiated in it or not, should make you have the same sensations as doing drugs,\" and despite the homogenized tracklist (every song begins with the letter \"a\"), the album strives to keep the listener chemically out of whack. Unlike the gradual, ecstasyfriendly build of techno, Turzi's heady motorik establishes steady beats and chants that burn hot but briefly. On \"Are You Thinking About Jesus?\", Turzi muses that \"Jesus had never seen a dancefloor,\" yet he prematurely pulls the plug on this swelling maxim as if he never has either.While A flaunts a cultured blend of musical genres, Turzi's penchant for kitschy film score tropes serves as the glue holding the whole thing together. Besides the obvious Can or Silver Apples references, Turzi cites Hollywood composers like Ennio Morricone as major influences, a connection that quickly becomes apparent just a few tracks in. Tracks like \"Alpes\" or \"Afghanistan\" open according to the stoic German template, with subtle but skullpiercing guitar droning over a rudimentary drum part on the verge of Chinese water torture, the whole system immaculately interlocked and seemingly interminable. Quickly, though, the ascetic loses out to the aesthetic, the taut kraut drones slouch into dark surfguitar riffs, and Turzi's deep vocals inject a James Deanlike coolness into the song's unfeeling machinery.However, A proves more than the extra butter on your action movie's popcorn. Just as any of these obsessive numbers can simultaneously explode into scenestealing theatrics, so too can they get caught in a mindmelting feedback loop. \"Attila Blues\" starts eerily similar to A's more dramatic tracks, though Turzi reins in his breathy vocals, emulating Suicide's ability to reconcile clanging, anticlimactic repetition with warmblooded Elvis crooning. Ironically, a topographicallychallenged track like this adds more entertainment value than a dozen showstopping themes strung together ever could. Nowhere on A does Turzi craft something wholly original or unpredictable on its own, but sequentially each track puts enough of a twist on its predecessor to keep this strungout blockbuster score intriguing. "}