{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10426/homepage_large.50226b01.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Sixtoo","title":"Jackals and Vipers in Envy of Man","text":"  Hopefully this won't confuse anyone, but that 5.5 up there needs an asterisk. Not that it isn't a suitable final score it is if you listen to and consume previouslyunheard records on a throwonandplay basis, especially if you spend a lot of time paying pinpoint attention to everything the record does and eventually wind up disassembling everything to its component parts to try and figure out what makes it tick. And what makes the new album by Montreal producer Sixtoo tick is an elusive, scattershot bucket of parts a collection of liveshow instrumentation detritus sewn together via sampling into a serviceable noirbeat record that, being voiceless and largely nameless (track titles go from \"Part 1\" to \"Part 13\"), comes across as vague and incomplete. The thing is, Jackals and Vipers in Envy of Man is the kind of vague and incomplete music that, instead of immediately boring and/or frustrating you, has just enough intrigue to serve as what would seem to be reasonably unobtrusive background music. And there's where the asterisk comes in: to fully appreciate Jackals and Vipers, your mind needs to be elsewhere. It might help a little to consider Sixtoo's possible aesthetic mindset beforehand: the first five influences listed on his MySpace page refer to 1960s and 70s experimental rock, Yakuza films, the biker gangfueled \"North American lowermiddle class hustle,\" muscle cars, and Italian scooters which simultaneously says nothing and everything about his musical philosophy. But those kind of background details might work a bit too much towards coloring expectations, and the less detail that goes with listening to this album, the better. While the main ingredients sometimes come together to form an obvious sonic shorthand a few of the basslines and drum breaks are right out of a dozenyearold My First Tricky Knockoff Starter Kit the stuff that sneaks in through the margins while you're not paying attention (or at least paying attention to the wrong thing) is what actually maintains interest. Tune out \"Part 4\"'s beat and its trytoohard attempts to sound gloomily intense, and you can catch the glimmers of hypnotic piano (provided by Belgian jazz composer Jef Neve) and a quivering, distorted sound like some sort of string instrument being run through a paint shaker.  The unremarkable faux\"Levee\" break in \"Part 2\" dominates just enough to make the midsong manipulation of the thumb piano that opened it into a subtle undercurrent of a hook. And even if it's frequently in the service of beats that do little to actually ramp up dynamics or drop in any real surprises, the production and atmosphere have the ideal level of haze, incorporating unobtrusive elements of dub and coating everything with a layer of grit that makes everything from \"Part 1\"'s bombedout jukebox acidsoul to \"Part 13\"'s baroquely psychedelic electric piano refractions sound like some resurrected ephemera that just clawed its way out of a coffin. (It's not entirely clear how pristine the source material may have sounded, but given its liveshow origins, there's a chance that this album is one of those rare works to benefit from a poor soundboard recording.)  Ultimately, whatever flaws lie in Jackals and Vipers are inextricably tied into the circumstances in which you listen to it if you're drunk or stoned or playing video games or otherwise halflistening with an uncritical ear (which, let's be honest, is how most writers consume music when they're not reviewing it), it'll range somewhere between inoffensive and mildly alluring. It's the kind of soundtrack that could make movies more suspenseful, late night drives moodier and walks brisker just don't bring it to the foreground, or it'll lose everything. "}