{"label":" Secretly Canadian / Service","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10425/homepage_large.722a2fa6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Jens Lekman","title":"Night Falls Over Kortedala","text":" Jens Lekman, the samplehappy Swedish singersongwriter with the boyfriendable baritone, isn't an artist who changes much from record to record. On his second proper fulllength, Night Falls Over Kortedala out in Sweden now, and in the U.S. on Secretly Canadian early next month Lekman's deadpan style of singing, sunny melodies, and wittily lovelorn lyrics are a lot like what he's been doing since 2004 debut LP When I Said I Wanted to Be Your Dog, and on the EPs compiled on 2005's Oh You're So Silent Jens. \"So if you liked that, you'll love this,\" Jonathan Richman once wrote. Lekman quotes the phrase on his blog. On the other hand, Jens Lekman isn't quite Jens Lekman anymore. He logged out of MySpace for the last time in February, dissatisfied with the impersonality of the medium. The new Lekman is a 23yearold American who so far has only one friend; he joins impostor Lekmans already populating Facebook and Friendster. The actual Lekman apparently finds something beautiful in these false copies of himself, and he's come to embrace them. \"Just like I've lately embraced all the misinterpretations in the media,\" he explains, again on his blog. It all goes to show: Pop's true meaning is whatever we construct for it ourselves. Not just critics or obsessive music lovers, but you, me, and anyone to whom a song means anything. Lekman's stunning Night Falls Over Kortedala embraces this idea more fully than any release of the past few years more even than Girl Talk with his memorypricking laptop references, Kanye West with his canny reuse of classic hooks from Curtis Mayfield and Daft Punk, or mashup artists with their many onetrick tracks. Like the Avalanches if they sang their own tunes, Lekman borrows liberally from his memories and surroundings, then uses them to create a lush and romantic world worth misinterpreting again and again.  It's a world set mostly within the confines of a Gothenburg, Sweden neighborhood called Kortedala. For this, Lekman has called the album a failure; he'd intended to traverse more ambitious terrain. Whether through samples, stylistic appropriations, or simply lyrics, Kortedala is a globeconquering record regardless. Its vinylcrackling arrangements span the baroque pop of Scott Walker, the upbeat rhythms and bright harmonies of Northern soul, and the beachparty disco of fellow Swedish artists Air France, Studio, and the Tough Alliance. Along with wry, sometimes melancholic observations worthy of Richman or the Magnetic Fields' Stephin Merritt, these elements make for Lekman's best record, one likely to captivate even those who were skeptical of his previous releases.  The new album introduces Lekman draped in timpani, strings, and horns on \"And I Remember Every Kiss\", which samples classical violinist (and gatefoldsleeve inventor) Enoch Light. While recalling late1960s Walker, the majestic opening also picks up where the Blueboysampled orchestration of When I Said... finale \"A Higher Power\" left off. \"I would never kiss anyone/ Who doesn't burn me like the sun,\" Lekman proclaims here. A track later, though, he admits to sometimes nearly regretting his first kiss: \"I see myself on my deathbed, saying, 'I wish I would have loved less.'\" But that's when Willie Rosario's orchestral cover of Jimmy Webb's \"By the Time I Get to Phoenix\" also used by the Avalanches hits, in all its blissful glory. Love can lead to anguish and shame, but in \"Sipping on the Sweet Nectar\", the feeling is worth it.  With that, the voyage begins. Current single \"The Opposite of Hallelujah\" visits 1960s Motown by way of Glasgow chamberpop; beats sampled from the Tough Alliance take the harptwinkled melancholy of \"I'm Leaving You Because I Don't Love You\" to a club in the tropics. \"Shirin\" brings up the Iraq war as fact, not just political issue; it tells of an immigrant hairdresser at Kortedala Beauty Center (also the name of Lekman's home studio). On the slower \"It Was a Strange Time in My Life\", a portrait of the artist as a shy and selfloathing young man, a sample of an infant Lekman leads flute and chiming electric guitar into the notsodistant past. \"I had a good time at the party when everyone had left,\" Lekman sings; throughout the album, backing vocals by El Perro del Mar's Sarah Assbring and Frida Hyvönen ensure his loneliness never overwhelms his charms.  And these are considerable. If rock'n'roll is \"the art of making the commonplace revelatory\", as critic Greil Marcus once wrote, this fey crooner is a rock'n'roller on par with the Streets' Mike Skinner. Lekman can sing about asthma inhalers, avocados, and a heart \"beating like Ringo\"; on the aching standout \"A Postcard to Nina\", he describes an awkward conversation with a girl's stern father who makes clumsy jokes about lie detectors. All of it works. Over sampled a cappella doowop on \"Kanske Ar Jag Kar I Dig\" (Swedish for \"Maybe I'm In Love With You\"), Lekman just rambles for a while about something stupid he saw on TV. \"This has of course nothing to do with anything/ I just get so nervous when talking with you,\" he finally admits.  Though not twee exactly, Kortedala may require an appetite for schmaltz another way Lekman makes \"the commonplace revelatory.\" If his Four Seasons falsetto on \"Shirin\" sounds suddenly chic thanks to this year's great Pilooski reedit of Frankie Valli's \"Beggin'\", then the unabashedly sentimental \"Your Arms Around Me\" might be the stumbling block for some listeners. (Its ukulele riff has already been compared to Hanson's \"MMMBop\".) It really doesn't matter; based on the Situationist concept of détournement, Lekman's song about an unfortunate kitchen mishap is a subversion of any bland source material. Besides, none of us can escape what's least cool about our past no matter what influences we list on our MySpace pages, it all informs our experience of pop. Or I could just be misinterpreting again.  Admittedly, no individual moment here quite rises to the heights of early single \"Maple Leaves\", which hinged on a mistake of its own: \"She said that we were just make believe, but I thought she said maple leaves.\" As an album, however, Kortedala represents the most cohesive statement yet from an immensely talented artist whose early EPs once made him seem like a rebel against the LP form altogether. Like the Renaldo & the Loafsampling \"Into Eternity\", it's a record about moments (and kisses) we take with us moments that we (or Lekman) may never have experienced: Our own Kortedala.  So, is \"Shirin\" the true story of Lekman's hairdresser? Is jaunty \"Friday Night at the Drivein Bingo\" really inspired by Lekman's time working what he's described as \"the shittiest job in the world\"? Did he even actually give up MySpace for good? Lekman takes great records down from their pedestal and reuses them in his art; it could be that he shows as little undue reverence for the facts of his own biography. Lekman follows an admonition from the Tough Alliance song sampled here, which they in turn lifted from 1980s UK leftwing skinhead band the Redskins: \"Take no heroes, only inspiration.\" I can't wait until someone rips off this album.  "}