{"label":" Make Mine","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10428/homepage_large.d52270a2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Library Tapes","title":"Höstluft","text":" The Swedish duo Library Tapes has cultivated a music that seems surrounded by an ineradicable silence, even as felt hammers sound steel strings into the air. Their previous albums evoked Max Richter: Pianos dominated, but a broader instrumental palette comprised a sparkling exterior. Last year's Feelings for Something Lost was entrancingly murky, like a scene reflected in a mirror coming unsilvered.Höstluft resides in that same dim glass, but after the departure of bandmate Per Jardsell, David Wenngren chose not to fill in the empty spaces, and his first solo effort as Library Tapes is even more spectral than the collaborative efforts. Comprised solely of piano and scratchy field recordings, Höstluft's ghostly themes emerge glittering from clouds of roughhewn texture, cycle tenuously for awhile, and then either peter out abruptly or slip back into the haze. The album's fluid, rudimentary nature imbues it with an eternal quality: Wenngren stays hard on the damper pedal to attain a consistently lulling, legato purr. The presence of Philip Glass seems writ large in the record, but influence travels in mysterious ways. In a brief email exchange, Wenngren intimated to me that he wasn't overly familiar with the composer. But Eluvium, a mainstay in Library Tapes's RIYL line, is heavily indebted to Glass: \"Prelude for Time Feelers\", from his latest album, Copia, unambiguously cribs its yearning theme from \"Mad Rush\". Höstluft's repetitive etudes, lacking horns and strings, actually resemble Glass's piano music more closely than Eluvium's homage does, although they favor blunt simplicity over subtle shading. And while even Glass's most retiring music has a sweeping quality, Library Tapes is resolutely ethereal, enticing the listener to lean in. This contrasting affinity is especially apparent in the conch shell whorls of tracks like \"Skiss Av Träd\" and \"Dis/Dagg/Dimma\". Höstluft's starkness reveals nuances that create affinities with diverse piano works from diverse ages. The bright starcracks of \"Noslipós\", once they resolve from a chattering overture, sound like a John Cage sonata for prepared piano glinting through a veil of resonance. The album largely favors the cantabile melodies of Romanticera nocturnes, a style Erik Satie adapted for his Gymnopédies, and Wenngren's fleshier tracks, like \"Repor\" and \"Skiss Av Löv\", capture that same expressive, vanishing quality in less meandering, more forthright lines. The glistering waves of \"Mellan Ljud Och Text\" and the title track resemble a Glassian, truncated take on Morton Feldman's Triadic Memories, with those long tones condensed and wreathed in an armature of rhythmic clicks. Höstluft's raw simplicity is its most enticing aspect, and its densely textural atmospheric effects might afford listeners who usually can't find purchase in minimal piano music's glassy surfaces an access point into the genre.  More complex composition creates a buffer between music and the raw stuff of sound. Digital editing technology, when it's used to eradicate slippage, widens the disconnect between the sounds we hear and the people who intoned them. This isn't to denigrate either idiom, but to demonstrate how Höstluft operates differently. It draws us into a barelymediated awareness of the presence of the musician, his fingers pressing palpably onto ivory keys, and it accentuates the sheer materiality of the piano: A humming resonance machine. More than any other instrument, the piano sounds like a leap of faith, something impossibly bulky lifting off arduously, but featherlight in the air, spanning the chasm between silences as if suspended by its own purling tones. The only way to get closer to the piano's essence than listening to Höstluft is to sit down at one yourself.  "}