{"label":" Palm Pictures","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10443/homepage_large.3fd68ad8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Roky Erickson","title":"You're Gonna Miss Me OST","text":"  Roky Erickson didn't invent psychedelic rock, but he did (with the 13th Floor Elevators) give it its name. He didn't invent garage rock, either, but he remains one of the few artists of the Nuggetsera revered as more than a flash in the pan. This much is made clear in the first few minutes of You're Gonna Miss Me, the excellent 2005 documentary about the life and times of Roky Erickson. In fact, these early biographical touchstones essentially mark both the start and end of the Roky Erickson musical story, since Erickson spent much of his years past his late1960s prime struggling with drug addiction and alleged schizophrenia. You're Gonna Miss Me is thus less about Erickson's musical legacy than it is about the quest to restore that legacy, allowing Erickson to reclaim his past so that he might have a future. Obviously, given that Erickson is playing live again, the mission was a success and Erickson's reputation was restored. Still, for many his music remains either hopelessly obscure or too scattered around to get a grip on. Erickson's been anthologized so often that even some of the numerous bestofs and boxed sets aren't necessarily the best place to begin.  That's where the You're Gonna Miss Me soundtrack steps in: as a wellintentioned onestop divein point for Erickson's colorful and storied 40year career. Except that even that's been done already, too, by 1995's excellent two disc I Have Always Been Here Before: The Roky Erickson Anthology, which includes all but a couple of the paltry 12 songs included on You're Gonna Miss Me. That leaves this disc a wellintentioned onestop divein point with an asterisk. It's a wellintentioned onestop divein point for anyone that doesn't want or have an earlier, superior onestop divein point.  But that's OK, especially if your introduction to Erickson his trademark shriek, his surreal lyrics and, most of all, his otherworldly life comes via the documentary's narrative. Certainly Erickson's songs possess different meanings when paired with the sight of this disheveled veteran, victim, and survivor, for years passed over or ignored as an outsider when in the end his mixedup ways were more a matter of him getting or being denied the right meds, care, and treatment than the actual effects of madness.  As far as that goes, Erickson's best songs the everastounding \"You're Gonna Miss Me\", \"Fire Engine\", \"Red Temple Prayer (Two Headed Dog)\", \"For You (I'd Do Anything)\" are no crazier than those of any gifted songwriter whose effortless output marks both a sign of genius and a certain insanity. Where do these things come from? And are all artists able to reach down into themselves and produce music capable of affecting so many perhaps a little bit nuts, too?  The happy ending of movie and man alike is, of course, that Roky Erickson is back up and running, but You're Gonna Miss Me adds one important facet to the tale: he's still good, too. One unique selling point of this disc is an unreleased song of recent vintage, \"Goodbye Sweet Dreams\", which plays over the ending credits of You're Gonna Miss Me and implies a fresh start to Erickson's stalled career. Is there more where that came from? Of course there is. There always is. But for the first time in his life, Roky Erickson may be in a position to actively expand his legacy rather than simply fade away with it.  "}