{"label":" Azul Discografica","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10438/homepage_large.03020b09.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Talibam!","title":"Ordination of the Globetrotting Conscripts","text":"  The use of jazzbased improvisation in the rock underground is nothing new. But lately it seems to be bubbling up at a particularly high rate. Owl Sounds, the Hat City Intuitive, the Eastern Seaboard, Violence Jazz, and the George Steeltoe Ensemble are just a few of the groups churning out homemade freeimprov (and handmade releases) on promising labels like Color Sounds, Evolving Ear, Tiger Asylum, and Heat Retention. One of the best of these bands is Brooklyn's Talibam!, currently comprised of Matt Mottel on synths and exStorm and Stress member Kevin Shea on drums. Their name taken from a New York Post headline celebrating American bombings in Afghanistan may be a joke, but their music is far from a punchline. Not that it's superserious either: Most of Talibam!'s songs are rollicking, bloodpumping workouts that surely take a few cases of Red Bull to complete. But these guys have sharp skills and diverse ideas and can do a lot more than just sprint. Their music evokes the raucous partynoise of Hal Russell or the Sun Ra Arkestra, but also the agility of ensembles led by David Ware or William Parker. On top of that, Talibam! adds prog and mathrock flourishes akin to Don Caballero and Battles.Ordination of the Globetrotting Conscripts is the group's first studio album after reams of selfrecorded CDRs and LPs. Their sound benefits from the increased clarity rocketing out of the speakers like fireworks. When the album was recorded last winter, Talibam! were a trio with Ed Bear on saxes and electronics, and they added nine guests including stellar trumpeter Peter Evans and legendary improviser CooperMoore (here on diddleybo, mouthbow, and \"twanger\"). Despite the shifting lineups from track to track, the album is stunningly consistent, hotglued by Mottel's whirring noise and Shea's acrobatic drumming, which pushes things forward like plugs sparking a racecar engine.  The album starts manically with the title track, a relentless swirl of scratchy synths, ricocheting percussion, and blurting horns. From there Talibam!'s best moments are the least expected: the Devoish syncopations of \"Guns and Butter\", the synth squiggles on \"Revolutionary Bummer Weed and the Syncretic Narcotraffickers\", the eerie drones of \"A Petroglyphic Massacre\". Most unpredictable is the disc's centerpiece, \"Rambo's Passeggiata\". Darting from hardedged jazz to metallic clang, it eventually takes a left turn into synthdriven pop, complete with excited vocals. Ordination's only missteps come at the end. The cartoonish \"New Burnt Century\" loses steam quickly, while the albumclosing \"The Spectre of Water Wars\" is a protracted journey to the center of indulgent freeprog. Here, the group seems to sense every moment at which their wankery becomes too much, and bluntly pushes the tedium up another notch. But Talibam! has earned the right to indulge, and if they continue to make music this energetic and fertile, the occasional overreach will be easily excusable.  "}