{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10453/homepage_large.b52cdc82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Go! Team","title":"Proof of Youth","text":" For every artist that starts out with a solo homerecording project, hitting the road circuit can present a problem: It necessitates the recruitment of other musicians, a reworking of overdubs and sampleladen material for live performance, and a general shift away from the original plot. After a couple of hundred shows and radio sets, these adjustments can become part of the artist's musical DNA, redirecting all future work away from those lonely, antisocial earlier days, and towards a crowdpleasing, stagetranslatable compromise. The Go! Team know this challenge well: After Thunder, Lightning, Strike became a surprise hit on both sides of the Atlantic, auteur Ian Parton found himself with a demand for a live version of his kitchensink project. By the end of 2006, he'd played every festival from Austin to Australia with his merry crew, slowly evolving from shy, nervous rookies to seasoned partyrock veterans, with the multimedia backdrop and headbands to prove it. When Parton found himself ready to record album #2, he likely discovered that his band was nothing like where he'd left it on his debut; for one, there were a lot more people in it. In reaction, Parton seems to have overcompensated for these changes, turning Proof of Youth into more of a sequel that replays the Thunder, Lightning, Strike formula rather than allowing the new personnel to push the Go! Team mission in a new or different direction. That decision brings both pros and cons with it: On one hand, the Go! Team sound remains a pretty singular blend of unlikely sonic companions, but revisisting that approach risks hitting the bottom of the creative well.  First single \"Grip Like a Vice\" is the thesis statement to Proof of Youth's copycat philosophy: It instantreplays the template of \"The Power Is On\", staccato playground chants and rollerrink organ building to sportshighlight fanfare and caustic guitar peaks. It's a relief, at least, to hear that the addition of nonsampled vocals most courtesy of rapper Ninja hasn't changed Parton's approach to production: Her words are still low and faded in the mix, as if he recorded her, pressed it to vinyl, and then sampled it just to maintain his aesthetic. \"Grip Like a Vice\" isn't the only \"Power\" clone, though it's probably the best: \"Titanic Vandalism\" and \"Keys to the City\" find diminishing returns as the novelty of the approach wears thin.  The other welcome news is that the gueststar buddies that the Go! Team have accumulated don't do much to break up the gameplan either, as appearances by Bonde do Role's Marina Ribatski, the Rapper's Delight Club kids, and the Double Dutch Divas fade right into the grainy mix. Only Chuck D stands out: \"Flashlight Fight\"'s paranoid sirens and clattering drums hearken back to the Bomb Squad's urgent soundscapes.  While the kidchantsashiphopmaneuver bit starts to show signs of staleness on Proof of Youth even in spite of the album's guests other aspects of the Go! Team's philosophy provide more replayable highlights. \"Fake ID\" is less oldschool rap pastiche than twee indiepop given a supercharged engine, with glockenspiel and childlike vocals propelled by fuzz bass and Parton's voluminous drums. \"Doing It Right\" shuffles those poppier elements into the jumprope rhyming and horns template, intercutting the protorap with a dreamy chorus. But would it kill the band to include a few more instrumental interludes like the Alan Parker cover \"My World\", which offer a welcome relief from the frenetic pace while suckerpunching memories of Sesame Street Super8 interludes and weird Morriconeknockoff cartoon scores?  Those quieter moments may have been the necessary sacrifice to the Go! Team's new extrovert status, and if so, it's a fair but troubling tradeoff. Proof of Youth mostly recaptures the enthusiasm and unique sensibility of Thunder, Lightning, Strike, further filling that niche for lofi samplebased oldschoolnoiserap we never knew we needed filling. But in retracing his earlier steps, Parton is beginning to flirt with the dangerous point where a thrilling new sound becomes a onetrick pony, allowing the band to drift more towards exclusively making the kind of music that plays big on stage.  "}