{"label":" Interscope / Shady / Aftermath","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10458/homepage_large.a773bfe8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"50 Cent","title":"Curtis","text":" 50 Cent is a noted disciple of selfhelp guru Robert Greene's Machiavellian handbook, The 48 Laws of Power. Not only has the musclebound hiphop colossus modeled his career after the cutthroat guide, he's working with Greene on a streetflavored addendum called The 50th Law. So far, the four dozen overthetop credos have worked swimmingly for 50: He's sold more than 20 million albums worldwide since 2003 while pulling in auxiliary profits with Vitamin Water and other less amusing side hustles. But these days, when it comes to music, 50 Cent looks vulnerable; most of the advance singles from Curtis underperformed, and the Queens rapper has a good chance of losing this week's transparent SoundScan battle to Kanye West (if not country bumpkin Kenny Chesney). What's a powerstarved, proteinshaking egomaniac to do? Well, rereading his personal Bible would be a good start …  Law 46: Never Appear Too Perfect It is smart to occasionally display defects, and admit to harmless vices, in order to appear more human and approachable. In this week's Rolling Stone feature on 50 Cent, the rapper claims, \"I'm King Kong. Kanye is human. Humans run when they see King Kong, because they're scared.\" He's right. Hulking, inelegant, and hopelessly primitive, 50 Cent is hiphop's doomed beast. On Curtis, he sets out to reenergize his base by reminding us of his strengths: He fucks and kills with ease, he needs five deposit envelopes every time he hits up an ATM, and he's a hit with the ladies. But, as Greene makes clear, there's no depth or dynamic to that kind of perfection it's like watching a big dildo machine make big dildos all day. While 50 never made a habit of flaunting his faults like Kanye (or Em or Big or 2Pac…), he could usually back up his tales with indelible beats, swaggering hooks, and a flow that slithered like original sin. But those oncebountiful gifts are all heavily downgraded or altogether absent on Curtis.  50 should be able to work with producers who could conjure his hitmaking abilities, but instead the MC mostly sticks with triedandfailed GUnit stalwarts and Dreaping upandcomers that do him few favors. Nearly every instrumental from the cartoon menace of \"My Gun Go Off\" to the assemblyline funk of \"Touch the Sky\" plods with the same unending gangster greys that tanked recent albums from Lloyd Banks, Young Buck, and Mobb Deep. On the surface, the tracks display a factorysealed freshness, but that machinemade precision quickly becomes monotonous, begging for something more raw and excitable. Curtis nails this sweetspot only once, on the stadiumstatus \"I Get Money\", an adrenaline rush so pure it manages to revive 50's weary id for three and a half booming minutes. Unfortunately, it's not nearly enough.   Law 25: ReCreate Yourself Forge a new identity, one that commands attention and never bores the audience. With soulflecked hits like \"Hate It or Love It\", \"Window Shopper\", and \"Hustler's Ambition\", there was some hope that 50 would divert from his hardcharging style toward something more shadowy and sampledbased for this new album. That switch would allow him to age gracefully and give him a sympathetic platform to air out the real Curtis instead of his exhausted superhero guise. But naturally, the laidback style that characterized Massacre highlights like \"Ski Mask Way\" and \"Ryder Music\" is almost nowhere to be found on Curtis.  The reflective poise that characterized his killer \"Hate It or Love It\" verse is constantly pushed aside for a repetitive nihilism best summed up by the selfexplanatory \"I'll Still Kill\", one of the very few Akonassisted tracks in existence that fails to stick. The album's only concession to modern pop trends the Timbalandproduced, Timberlakehooked \"Ayo Technology\" flies off the rails as 50, ripped from his comfort zone, falls behind the gurgling, videogameblipping beat. Though he tries to force the track into more familiar territory with a cyborgstripper theme, Justin nabs the spotlight without even trying. The closest 50 comes to the silky maturity that once seemed so promising is on \"Follow My Lead\", a love ballad with everyone's secondfavorite whiteboy crooner, Robin Thicke, singing backup. While the track's supperclub twinkle is a welcome oasis amidst Curtis's Michael Bay brutishness, 50 relies on playedout, faceless pickup lines: \"You could be my Beyonce, I could be your Jay.\" Thing is, even Jay famously reinvented himself on The Blueprint, shedding his icy exterior for something close to human emotion. Here, 50 misses an opportunity for reinvention, relying on the same useless 9mm Viagra formula.   Law 18: Do Not Build Fortresses to Protect Yourself Isolation is Dangerous: Isolation exposes you to more dangers than it protects you from it cuts you off from valuable information, it makes you conspicuous and an easy target. 50 Cent currently lives in a 50,000 square foot house in Farmington, Connecticut. The former Mike Tyson abode has five Jacuzzis, 25 full baths, 18 bedrooms, an elevator, two billiard rooms, a movie theater, a locker room, and several stripper poles. Especially for a man known for his reclusive reputation, the house is a fortress of the highest order. It's also an apt symbol for his isolation and detachment from the modern rap landscape. In direct opposition to Kanye's fearless, risktaking Graduation, 50's new album is a blatant rehash a bottomline sequel that insults the same audience it mindlessly panders to. Once again, from Rolling Stone: \"'Kanye receives trophies because he's safe,' 50 Cent says, punctuating the word 'safe' with a lisp and a limp wrist.\" At this point, those grandstanding putdowns aren't just wildly offthemark, but genuinely sad; like Curtis, such remarks are too pathetic to be taken seriously and too stupid to be funny. In his insular quest to recapture the kingsized popularity of his massive debut, 50 is sacrificing the same thing that Kanye (and Jay and Nas...) has so tirelessly worked to cultivate: an engaging music career worth remembering.  "}