{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10461/homepage_large.78b5962e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Picastro","title":"Whore Luck","text":" Here's Polyvinyl's cute lil' giftwrapped, consumerfriendly tagline for Picastro's third album: \"Whore Luck is an album of somber reflection and uneasy resolve.\" Gee, you think so? Polyvinyl might as well sell shotguns and say \"this product, when pointed at the face and fired, may cause slight dizziness and nausea.\" You see, this Torontonian group isn't just bummed; their sickly, sparse acoustic/string arrangements are where sappy ballads and uplifting paeans go to die. They mine music from the most extreme intersection of beauty and melancholy. Thanks to some auspicious festival slots and favorable internet buzz, Whore Luck finds Picastro getting called up from the rookie leagues to indie's AA level. Fittingly, their third album features chic cameos from Xiu Xiu's Jamie Stewart and exmember Owen Pallett of Final Fantasy fame, along with covers of Roky Erickson and the Fall tunes. However, frontwoman Liz Hysen hardly curbs her fragile dementia in the face of this newfound exposure, instead sounding just as terrified of the world as ever. Thanks to the additions of cellist Nick Storring and drummer Brandon Valdivia, Hysen's dark ballads can explore even deeper and more labyrinthine caverns, and Whore Luck often finds itself, for better or worse, getting lost in these sonic regions. Early on Whore Luck, the difference is marginal. As opening tracks \"Hortur\" and \"Car Sleep\" demonstrate, creepy acoustic strumming still drives Picastro's songs, with timely cymbal crashes and moaning strings picking up the dramatic slack for Hysen's signature listless vocals. Not to be confused with My Brightest Diamond or Cat Power though, the lush arrangements quickly vaporize into a paranormal haze, Hysen's zombielike delivery eschewing melodic delicacy in favor of soulless experimentation and for all we know feasting on human brains. Her take on Roky Erickson's \"If You Have Ghosts\" sucks out the song's flower power, replacing Erickson's pysch framework with a pump organled haunted house ambiance that very literally interprets the track's title. Brief ditties \"Towtruck\" and \"Stair Keeper\" follow, relying on the same pizzicato plucking and tape hissing used to frighten trickortreaters approaching your front porch. Despite these bells and whistles, the band gels enough here to produce its most syncretic material yet. When Picastro coopt the Fall's early gem \"An Older Lover Etc.\" (titled \"Older Lover\" on Whore Luck), Hysen boils the song's melody down to a ritualistic chant, fading in and out of the spotlight amidst Stewart's trembling croons and Storring's schizo arrangements. Although Picastro still struggle to justify their maddening paucity as a stylistic choice versus their paucity as cover for lack of ideas, Whore Luck's growing pains appear as proof that the band still has room to grow and is headed in the right direction. "}