{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10457/homepage_large.cdf67327.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Love Is the Song We Sing: San Francisco Nuggets 1965-1970","text":"  San Francisco is one of the few truly unique cities in the United States. It could not possibly be mistaken for another city, and its position on the West Coast at the dramatic mouth of a bay gives it an aura unlike any other place I've been. Its hilly topography alone sets it apart, but from its roots as a Spanish mission to the boom of the Gold Rush, right through the mid20th century San Francisco Renaissance and 1967's Summer of Love, the city has attracted a mix of people that's kept alive a certain frontier spirit that persisted long after it became one of the country's largest urban centers. When youth counterculture rose into the mainstream and popular music expanded into previously unimagined realms in the latter half of the 60s, San Francisco was undeniably one of the most important epicenters of change. The city's history with the Renaissance poets, the Beats, and a vibrant folk scene left it in a good position to serve as a cultural engine, and the ignition of the San Francisco Sound came from dozens of sources, from Bob Dylan, Paul Butterfield, and the British Invasion to UCBerkeley's 1964 Free Speech Movement, the evolution of freeform FM radio, and the proliferation of hallucinogenic drugs. By 1967, San Francisco was the most psychedelic city in America, if not the world. The word \"psychedelic\" was first coined in 1957 by British psychiatrist Humphry Osmond, but it was popularized by Timothy Leary, the legendary acid guru who did most of his research on psychotropic drugs at Harvard but chose San Francisco's January 1967 Human BeIn gathering to first issue his exhortation to \"Turn on, tune in, drop out.\" Amusingly, given San Francisco's association with drugs, hippies, and flower children, the original name for the city that grew up outside the San Francisco mission was Yerba Buena, literally Spanish for \"Good Grass.\"  Rhino's fourth 4xCD Nuggets compilation steps laterally away from the focus of previous volumes on twotothreeminute blasts of fuzzy pop and obscure singles to build a panoramic picture of what was happening in Bay Area rock music between 1965 and 1970. The set's own lavishly illustrated and beautifully printed liner notes take pains to emphasize that this isn't a genre excavation so much as it is a musical examination of a particularly volatile point in spacetime. The tracklisting includes transplants like Steve Miller and bands from around the Bay, showcasing bubblegum, folkrock, protometal, Latin funkrock, garage fuzz, and aciddamaged novelties alongside San Fran staples the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, the Charlatans, Moby Grape, and Quicksilver Messenger Service.  Not all of the music exactly qualifies as obscure, either I'd guess nearly everyone reading this has heard Jefferson Airplane's \"White Rabbit\", Santana's \"Soul Sacrifice\" and \"Evil Ways\", Janis Joplin's \"Mercedes Benz\" and Blue Cheer's cover of \"Summertime Blues\". Context seems to be a leading motive for including these, but they could as easily have been swapped for other rarities. Each disc has a theme: Seismic Rumbles, Suburbia, Summer of Love, and The Man Can't Bust Our Music, and each tackles a slightly different aspect of what made the Bay Area music scene so special. Seismic Rumbles chronicles the transition from the folk scene to the first flashes of psychedelia, which largely began when Dylan went electric at Newport and convinced guys who'd been playing in oldtime jug bands that electric guitars were okay. Six of the disc's 21 songs were produced for Autumn Records by Sly Stewart, who was honing his craft while harboring dreams of a multiracial, multigender band that could pull together the strands of r&b and rock'n'roll and make something new from them.  Among his productions is \"Can't Come Down\", an early track by the Warlocks, soon to become the Grateful Dead, and still very much in a bluesrock mode it sounds more like John Mayall than \"Uncle John's Band\". Sly shows up later on disc three with the Family Stone, railing against racial inequality on the funky \"Underdog\", which quotes \"Frere Jacques\" in its horn chart as a tribute to brotherhood. The Dead appear two more times, including the rarely heard single version of concert staple \"Dark Star\", a jazzy wisp of a song that sounds like it was composed as the band played it in the studio.  Many of the bands featured were interrelated. For instance, Grace Slick lent her powerful vocals to both the Great! Society and Jefferson Airplane, both of which are featured multiple times. The Society's 1965 original version of the massive Airplane hit \"Somebody to Love\" unfortunately turns out to be a leaden relic, but their other track, the pounding, ragainspired \"Free Advice\", was ahead of its time and is easily as thrilling in its dissonance as Slick belting, \"Feed your head!\" two years later on Surrealistic Pillow. The compilers have elevated Country Joe & the Fish to a surprisingly exalted position by including three of their songs, including the soundeffectsladen EP version of \"I Feel Like I'm Fixin' to Die Rag\", which became an iconic antiwar song years later when the band performed it at Woodstock. Perhaps more intriguing is the inclusion of \"Section 43\", a fluid, mysterious instrumental that features an early dose of the openended improvisation that became so important to the San Francisco scene later on.  There was surprisingly little overlap between the scenes in San Francisco proper and its many surrounding communities, and as such the Suburbia disc is the only one that features no bands found on other discs in the set. It's also one of the most solid discs, with its emphasis on tight songs and roughandtumble garage rock. Count Five's \"Psychotic Reaction\" is fantastic, but feels a bit redundant given that it was on the first Nuggets box. Marin County's Front Line back vocal harmonies with wild fuzz and organ, while the Sacramento area's Oxford Circle check in with the roiling psychpunk nugget \"Foolish Woman\", with drummer Paul Whaley slamming away on his toms in preparation for his future work with Blue Cheer. The weirdest inclusion is Teddy & His Patches' \"Suzy Creamcheese\", a blistering freakout complete with psychedelic studio effects and a cheeseball monologue about \"opening your closed mind\" that was reportedly recorded by a bunch of straightarrow coattailriders from San Jose.  The Summer of Love disc zeros in on 1967, the year everything came to a head in San Francisco. It was the year hippiedom went national, but it was also the year that largely destroyed the idealistic collectivism that permeated San Francisco in the mid60s. The Human BeIn, which attracted 30,000 people to Golden Gate Park in January, stoked optimism that at least a portion of society might be on the brink of a truly new way of living. In a lot of ways, the dream peaked in June at the Monterey International Pop Festival, the first successful outdoor rock festival. But as the summer wore on and wannabe hippies from all over the country crowded into the HaightAshbury, the situation became untenable. By the end of the year, many of the original hippies, disgusted by the dilution of what they believed in, had left San Francisco for the hills of Northern California.  Still, plenty of good music poured out of the city amid all the chaos. The Charlatans' \"Alabama Bound\" features almost the whole band on vocals, and Dan Hicks' drums play in a unique pocket that doesn't rely on any kind of conventional beat. The Beau Brummels, once cast as America's answer to the Beatles, turn in a sublime bit of pop drama on \"Two Days 'Til Tomorrow\", Moby Grape's \"Omaha\" is a small masterpiece of barreling American psych, and Quicksilver Messenger Service's cover of Buffy SainteMarie's \"Codine\" gives you the other side of the drug experience, with David Freiberg's tortured vocal slogging through the song's bluesy downer haze.  Nothing was ever quite the same after 1967 in San Francisco, and it's interesting to note that while music continued to grow in excess and ornamentation in many other scenes (for instance in much of Europe, where psychedelia gave way to prog), much of the music coming out of San Francisco as the 60s wound down was markedly pastoral and unadorned. Improvisation remained a central feature, but there's far less open experimentation on the final disc, whose title refers to the numerous runins with the law members of San Francisco's rock royalty had incurred by that point. Among the best finds on the disc is Mother Earth's psychjazz waltz \"Revolution\", which features an excellent, loose horn arrangement.  The set is bookended by two versions of the same song. At the beginning, Dino Valenti's original solo acoustic version of \"Let's Get Together\" comes off like a limp Dylan retread with muddled phrasing, but at the end, the Youngbloods turn it into a freeflowing anthem for a dying era, a mix of weary melancholy and wistful optimism (I learned it growing up from TV ads for TimeLife anthologies). By 1970, psychedelia was just about dead in San Francisco, though the city has continued to attract people drawn by the allure of the ideas that fueled the original Summer of Love.  What happened in San Francisco in the late 60s was a key piece of the development of music as we know it today. The social experiments of the hippies largely failed, but the musical experimentation of the period has kept many of these songs fresh to this day. The San Francisco sound was an important step toward the realization that popular music was true art, and for a fleeting moment, arcane concepts such as John Cage and Allan Kaprow's \"happenings\" gained real macrocultural currency. It's something that will never happen again, and while this boxed set isn't definitive, it's incredibly welldesigned, full of detailed information and vintage photos, and does a good job of providing a highly enjoyable starting point for listeners who'd like to explore further.  "}