{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1058/homepage_large.8ba62003.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Hurst","artist":"Steve Burns","title":"Songs for Dustmites","text":" Let's go ahead and get this part over with: Yes, this is the debut album by the guy who, along with the titular blue dog, used to host Blue's Clues, the insanely popular children's show on Nickelodeon. And yes, Steve Drozd of The Flaming Lips backs him on this album, with the bulk of production duties held down by Lips producer Dave Fridmann. The indie Alist backing hasn't made much of a dent in the guy's street cred, though it seems everyone's been gunning for the guy to fall flat on his face. Nobody wants to acknowledge this album. I can't blame them the guy's impossible to watch. I had some trouble, myself, swallowing that this character with doofus hair (guy should pay Moe Howard's estate royalties for that shit) had gained affiliation with one of the best bands going today, in indie rock or otherwise. But doubts about Burns' talents are dashed instantly, with the phenomenal opener \"Mighty Little Man\", a colossal wallop of orchestral guitarpop that's leagues beyond most of Fridmann's recent production work. It's perhaps the best example of Burns' lyrical style, relaying the tale of a television addict who transforms (under mysterious circumstances) into a superhero. Recent Lips material aside, spacerocking epics of this sort aren't the most original thing going these days, but you'd have to be a hardened cynic to deny the track's ebullience over a year since I first heard it, I'm still surprised at its grandeur. Burns falters slightly on \"Maintain\", which, for all its catchiness, dives into dreadful Jack Johnsonish plucked acoustic territory at its outset. The song's mindless hippie jauntiness is thankfully ameliorated by Drozd's trademark drumming and a sparkling chorus, but even these assets can't save the unfortunate lyrics, which go so far as to steal a line from obvious influence They Might Be Giants: \"And I'm standing on the corner/ Gonna jump out of my skin/ Gonna float above the buildings/ See which one you're in.\" Fortunately, Burns regains his composure with the symphonic, sweeping cello and trumpet of the tentatively optimistic \"Stick Around\" and the loose, airy guitar workout of \"Super Strings\". Elsewhere, an upbeat, likeable slice of indiepop called \"What I Do on Saturday\" ambles along in definitie Lipslike fashion, while \">1\" stands out as a plaintive downtempo number. Featuring standardissue Fridmann backing effects subtly whirring synthesizers and gauzy strings the song works a surprisingly swampy guitar solo into the song's intimate environs. Many will surely grouse that Songs for Dustmites succeeds only thanks to Burns' star collaborators. But while Drozd and Fridmann's influence is undeniable from the start (they're clearly responsible for a good deal of the album's sparkle), Burns' lyrical insight and gift for writing and arranging endlessly listenable pop songs consistently manages to steal the show. Given the Flaming Lips' penchant for animal costumes and general childlike weirdness, it's no shock that these guys chose to record with Burns the surprise here is that, rather than the update of Fred Rogers' \"Won't You Be My Neighbor\" many indie snobs might have been expecting, Songs for Dustmites manages to remain true to Burns' legacy as a niceguy kid's show host despite having made an unabashedly adult record that deals with familiar themes of love and loss. "}