{"label":" Magpie","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10465/homepage_large.d5884048.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Mabuses","title":"Mabused","text":"  Since releasing two albums of skewed psychedelic pop in the early 1990s, the Mabuses have been keeping such a low profile that even their own Wikipedia and MySpace fan pages seem to have forgotten about them, their discontinued histories serving as quaint time capsules from an era when Dean Wareham and Kramer associations were the stuff of collegerock careerbuilding. What exactly Mabuses mainman Kim Fahy has been doing in the 13 years since 1994's Melbourne Method is something of a mystery the press file on the band's labyrinthine website yields not a single dispatch from the past decade. Given Fahy's apparent fondness for Syd Barrett, it's tempting to imagine that, like his hero, he made a mythic retreat into chemicallyinduced seclusion. The more mundane theory is that, given the limited commercial market for Soft Boysinspired indie pop, he probably just had to get a day job. But for a band with such a modest, barely preserved history, Mabused is a grand, sparenoexpenses reintroduction to the world. You'd think Fahy had blown his entire recording budget on the album packaging alone, presenting us with a glossy, multipaneled digipack and a lyric booklet concealed in a sleeve with cutout windows (รก la Led Zeppelin's Physical Graffiti). What's more, the cover collage of WWI soldiers and 19th Century circusposter iconography posit Mabused as Fahy's Sgt. Pepper and when compared to the more typical indie fare of The Mabsuses' early releases, it certainly is. Fahy is still firmly hitched to a lineage that spans all the great pop eccentrics from Syd and Arthur Lee to Robyn Hitchock and Andy Partridge through to Bob Pollard and Shack's Michael Head but he's ditched the standard fourpiece electric indierock formation of old. Mabused is both more acoustic and yet infinitely more elaborate, recorded as a sevenmember opendoor collective (Kramer included), with an auxiliary 12piece \"Orlac Kestra Ensemble.\" But all that extra ornamentation never overwhelms the songs with unnecessary orchestral dressing, instead coloring in the background of Fahy's folk frameworks like the soundtrack to a radio play.  Ace opener \"Dark Star\" sets the album's breezy tone: It's a strumalong headnodder buoyed by a catchy chorus that withstands slideguitar sweeps, chirpy woodwinds, and a subliminal old blues sample. Fahy's brand of psychedelia has little to do with standard genre signifiers like noise, distortion, drones, and trippy instrumental passages, instead savoring the strangeness of bygone traditions mariachi serenades (\"Havana\"), silentmovie scores (\"Garden Devils\") and placing the emphasis on his engagingly droll storytelling. The Beatlebouncing \"Seasider\" even makes sly references to his prolonged absence from musicmaking: \"I once thought I was funny, it's no secret I indulged/ I once ran out of money, it's no secret I evolved.\" The cheeky folkraga \"I'm the Greatest...\" takes the selfdeprecation one step further, completing its title statement with the words \"coward on Earth.\" But most telling line about the Mabuses' current condition arrives in the form of an Aldous Huxley namedrop on Beta Bandstyled groover \"Feast\" for a band that was dormant for 13 years, Mabused welcomes a brave new world.  "}