{"label":" Enja / Justin Time","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10477/homepage_large.71829e15.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Roberto Fonseca","title":"Zamazu","text":"  Roberto Fonseca will not be coming to a city near you any time soon, at least if you're an American. In recent years, it's become very difficult for Cuban musicians even ones who've been to the U.S. before to promote their music here through touring. But while Fonseca himself can't make it into the country, the pianist and producer's fifth solo album has, and it's a startlingly fresh take on AfroCuban jazz that draws in elements from around the world and across many styles. At times, it sounds close to Quincy Jones' late 1960s work, classic souljazz, and even vintage German television soundtracks. At the center off all the experimentation and genrebending lies Fonseca's piano. His playing is impressive and versatile, ranging from aggressive tone clusters and driving lefthand grooves to lyrical, explorative soloing. The piano is richly recorded, with an emphasis on the lower octaves that feeds into the album's dark, dreamlike vibe. It's a feel rooted as much in prewar recordings as it is in postmodern jazz there's just a slight patina of grit on the disc that makes it all the more arresting. Wordless voices are a major part of the album's texture, and the way it's produced, they sometimes blend with Javier Zalba's clarinet to make a single, unique timbre. Some of the material was recorded in Brazil, and you can hear a bit of that country's influence the wordless vocals occasionally recall Sergio Mendes and some of the nation's great vocal groups, and some of the percussion has a Brazilian flavor. Like \"Clandestino\", which is equal parts McCoy Tyner, Quincy Jones, Peter Thomas, and Sergio Mendes, riding a dramatic lefthand piano theme as hand percussion snaps and sizzles in the background.  Other songs draw from even further afield. \"Congo Árabe\" has a lightspeed rock beat and coalesces around a diving Middle Eastern sax theme that sounds closer to 70s European prog than Cuban jazz. And that's all before the flamenco guitar comes in. The title track rides a slow souljazz groove and some mindblowing inandoutofpocket drumming by Ramsés Rodriguez that complements the rocksolid piano ostinato at the song's heart. Then there's \"Ishmael\", which sounds like a spy movie theme, with its string section and funky AfroCuban rhythm, but takes a salsajazz detour in the middle with some brutal loweroctave pounding as Fonseca lays into his keyboard with open palms and fists.  Omara Portuondo's duet with Fonseca's wandering piano on \"Mil Congojas\" sounds about a hundred years old and drips with sadness, but it's the next track that most embodies the album's dichotomy between rhythmic movement and contemplation. \"Triste Alegría\" (\"Sad Happiness\") morphs from a dour, rainyday tango into a screaming, sunpoisoned mambo with fluid ease. If there's a criticism for Zamazu, it's that a few tracks are a bit nebulous, and on an hourlong album, a few of those go a long way toward disrupting momentum. But on the whole, Zamazu is an excellent and varied work of modern jazz that deserves to be heard.  "}