{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10502/homepage_large.45f7b01f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Gang Gang Dance","title":"RAWWAR EP","text":"  Gang Gang Dance's 2006 CMJ performance at Webster Hall remains an unexpectedly transcendent moment. I'd seen the quartet a dozen times before (and in various forms since), but something about Lizzie Bougatsos, decked out in a Ghostface Killah tee, leading the boys through a realtime percussive collage in front of a halffilled room seemed like the weird promise of this avant crew eventually filling a big club without compromising one iota. A certain charismatic command of the stage, yea, but also the density and liveliness of the sound eking into every corner, jamming shit into the gaps that existed between the spread out, diffident crowd. GGD's most recent fulllength, God's Money, has improved over the two years since it was released, but all we've gotten in its wake are teasers: First came the 30minute collaged Hillulah, the soundtrackinasoundtrack of gorillahappy Retina Riddim CD/DVD, and now RAWWAR, a threesong EP that taps out just over 20 minutes. The two earlier pieces had their joys, but of all these minidiscs, RAWWAR's the most satisfying. Straight outta the gate, hotstepping opener and regular live staple \"Nicoman\" is GGD in pop mode, a taut rhythm with a crystalline core. A few minutes in Bougatsos' vocal intonation practically sounds like M.I.A., but she surfs the percussion in a more soulnodding way, tapping a different sort of avantpop tribalism. \"Nicoman\" is followed by the new wavey instrumental \"OxygenRiddim Demo\" the synth is so tinny, you can feel it blowing back someone's feathered hair (though, high school students should adopt it for proms everywhere). The track builds to GGD's signature Kabukistyle notation atop drum clicks and drags. After moving into a catchy patch of Junior Boyslike 4 a.m. pop, the song ends with a few seconds of sampled rain.  Closer \"The Earthquake That Frees Prisoners\" could've taken a turn for the worse with its Godspeedstyle sampledvoiceagainstdramaticbackdrop thing, but the voice here is Nathan Maddox, an early member of GGD who died after being struck by lightning on a NYC rooftop. So take a step back to that rain at the end of \"OxygenRiddim Demo\" and now listen to his voice as he mentions \"rooftops,\" as well as dust, terror, anxiety, pain, and...well, this suddenly is a lot more moving than your usual fauxcinematic narrative. Opening with a Bougatsos wail, the montage moves to a more anthemic place the band is all systems go for 11 minutes as it celebrates its ghosts.  "}