{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10495/homepage_large.38f01f8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Iron & Wine","title":"The Shepherd's Dog","text":"  Sam Beam's first two fulllengths under the name Iron & Wine were barebones, hushed affairs full of rich imagery, whispery falsettos, rhythmic fingerpicking, and not much else. In the time since, Beam has gradually moved in other directions, expanding his palette on both the excellent Woman King EP which featured more percussion and fleshedout arrangements and 2005's fullband collaboration with Calexico, In the Reins. Beam has also toured with a group of musicians for some time now, so it makes sense that his new album would complete his gradual journey away from lofi home recordings. The album even teases you at its start it begins with a snatch of scratchy blackandwhite guitar and percussion before jumping to Technicolor when the bass and drums dive in. The rest of opener \"Pagan Angel and a Borrowed Car\" is surprising as well, at once sleek and full of clattering Americana signifiers like steel guitar, acoustic slide guitar, and tack piano. Despite these new sounds, the core of Iron & Wine remains Beam's voice, guitar, and songwriting, which is still more suggestive than concrete, and is built mostly around strophic verse/verse/verse forms rather than leaning on choruses. Beam and producer Brian Deck deftly build on that foundation, venturing into dub, blues, and West African music (among other styles), creating a series of interstitial passages that cushion the transitions between songs. Beam also experiments with his voice, layering himself heavily on several songs.  Perhaps the most stunning arrangement is the West African juju casting of \"House by the Sea\", which builds from an abstract soundscape into a snaky groove led by a frenetic bass and a strangely employed baritone sax. Guitars dance atop the rhythm as Beam harmonizes with his sister Sarah on the chorus one of the few on the album. The album's foray into dub and reggae, \"Wolves (Song of the Shepherd's Dog)\", could have been a disaster if it hadn't been done so subtly, with an ear toward the musical elements that define reggae rather than the sonic character that defines it it's not a pastiche or a genre exercise in the least.  For an Iron & Wine album, The Shepherd's Dog is so varied that it takes several listens for everything to fully sink in, but the individual details such as the dramatic steel guitar at the end of \"Love Song of the Buzzard\" or the cascade of banjo in the middle of \"Innocent Bones\" are nearly as rewarding as the overall sound of the album. The sequencing is also wellconsidered, setting contrasting songs against each other and ending on the stunning and starkly emotional \"Flightless Bird, American Mouth\". The vocal harmony as it rises into the chorus is shiverinducing, and the song finally delivers the sense of resolution that much of the album purposely holds back. The Shepherd's Dog is Iron & Wine's most diverse and progressive album yet, a deft transition to a very different sound that explores new territory while preserving the best aspects of Beam's earlier recordings. It's the kind of record that just keeps pulling you back with its dreamlike flow and attention to detail: The first time I listened to it, I played it straight though again when it ended, and I can't think of a higher compliment than that.  "}