{"label":" Frog Stand","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10496/homepage_large.8504c31d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Clare and the Reasons","title":"The Movie","text":"  There are worse ways to kick off a debut album. Atop an orchestra of plucked strings and backed by a complementary chorus of Reasons, Clare Muldaur's kneebuckling voice sings a bittersweet but ultimately uplifting song about the nowdwarf planet Pluto. \"Cheer up, Pluto,\" she croons, \"the stars still love you, and we down here do, too.\" Coupling this sort of charm with Muldaur's gorgeous voice, equally gorgeous orchestration, and a nice list of contributors (including Beach Boy abettor Van Dyke Parks, internationallyrenowned harmonicist Gregoire Maret, and obscure indie troubadour Sufjan Stevens) would lead one to believe that The Movie is a stemtostern pleasure. Ultimately, however, the seemingly sumptuous stew one would hope to concoct from these ingredients ends up as a dish that leaves something to be desired. The most glaring shortcoming of this otherwise enjoyable record is the inadvertent slapfights that break out between Muldaur's rich yet delicate voice and the album's ornate arrangements. If the track's trappings are modest such as the piano and bass configuration that Parks uses for \"Love Can Be a Crime\", or the gentle restraint exhibited on \"Sugar in My Hair\" Muldaur shines through without a struggle. More often than not, though, she has to fight her way through hearttugging string sections and a Spartan phalanx of backup singers and any number of musical accoutrements to get herself heard. If there's any clever wordsmithery to be had in \"Cook For You\" beyond the opening couplet (\"I like to cook for you in my underwear/ 'Cause our kitchen points to a wall\"), it's smothered by a bathetic cadre of violins. \"Science Fiction Man\" starts off strongly on the lessismore tip, with just a few plucks and a running harpsichord behind Muldaur, but ends up going for the throat in an overly dramatic fashion just as the song nears its end. There's also a bit of shtickiness to overcome. While the album's leadoff track is gorgeous, it also wears out its welcome after a few listens. The album closes with a reenvisioning of \"Pluto\" en français the jovial plucking of the original is replaced with dreamy piano twinkling and a musical sawlike moan, and singing the lyrics in a foreign language goes a long way towards making the titular concern hold up longer. Stevens' nondescript appearance comes on The Movie's second track, a clumsy medley titled \"Nothing/Nowhere\" the former's 90 seconds sounds like a missing movement from a 1940s Disney soundtrack, while the latter apes the same stuff that Beatlesera McCartney would when in a show tune mood. In contrast, Maret's contributions to the album (some Stevie Wonderesque toots on \"Rodi\") stick out awkwardly. And, as mentioned previously, when the strings try to up the emotional ante, the end result comes off more schmaltzy than sincere. It's a shame, too there are plenty of moments and songs on The Movie that have me wishing the rest of the album was as strong as its high points.  "}