{"label":" Unknown","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10516/homepage_large.7540d642.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Stereo Total","title":"Paris-Berlin","text":" ParisBerlin is the best thing Stereo Total have released in a while, and it's turned out that way for fairly simple reasons. Judging by recent interviews, the duo went into the studio looking for a backtobasics live sound, showing up with their new songs already welldeveloped, wellrehearsed, and ready to burst out. Unsurprisingly, it pays off: The sound of this set isn't any different from the band you might already know, but it's tight, loaded with a precision and verve that's more sustained and consistent that most anywhere else in their catalog. Which is pretty useful, when you happen to be playing the sort of music these two do stuff we could tag as some kind of newwave/garage/punk/electro/pop/Serge Gainsbourg hybrid, even though that's a million times more complicated than it actually is. What it is is two mature French and German hipsters just generally having fun, getting arch and giddy: Verve is essential here. Just to reassure you that they haven't changed (in case you were deranged enough to think they might), here's a sampling of Françoise Cactus's Englishlanguage lyrics from this record …  I wanna be plastique too! Less like me and more like you!  CBGB! Chelzee Otel! [stuff in German] Buddee Olly! Zgene Veencent! Seed Veecious!  There will be no revolution without sexual revolution. … Masturbation is counterrevolutionary.  Patty Hearst: princess and terrorist!  Relax, baby, be coooool. [repeat for two minutes]  This is punk! This is rock 'n' roll! This is modern music! [repeat in French, English, and German]  Some of these quotes actually belie the fact that ParisBerlin also has better themes and preoccupations than usual, and that they keep knotting up with one another in fascinating ways. Those lines about revolution are actually borrowed from The Raspberry Reich, a film that has a Patty Hearststyle figure being kidnapped by revolutionaries from a \"homosexual Intifada.\" That little nexus of topics sexual revolution and revolutionary chic, fucking and terrorism has so inspired Stereo Total that they've written, in addition to this great record, a mini musical about Patty Hearst. It also dovetails neatly with Cactus's longstanding fixation on Lolita, which she like a lot of good readers sees mostly as a story about how the staggering power of teenage sexuality makes Weapons of Mass Destruction look safe in comparison. I can't think of too many bands that are both clever enough to dig into this stuff and smart enough to know that the results should be hilarious.  We can skip the quizzes about Nabokov and the BaaderMeinhof Gang, though, because the point is the sound that backs it up. I mean, Stereo Total also complain that electronic music in Berlin is getting too homogenized, but then they back up the grousing with \"Mehr Licht\", a ridiculously great basement dance stomper with a keyboard bassline as tweakedout as any Bpitch record. (Fans of German literature: Think hard and see if you can remember whose last words the title contains.) In the latter of a couple perfect onetwo punches on here, that's followed by a heavybreathing disco track that sounds like Serge Gainsbourg just joined Flight of the Conchords \"Ta Voix Au Téléphone\", my new favorite Stereo Total track. There's also classic newwave energy on \"Plastic\", and a sweet garagey onetwo starting with \"Baisers de l'Enfer de la Musique\", plus more than enough verve to keep the game going even when they get more sedate and poppy which, being bold and insouciant, they do starting on the very first track. Oh, they're clever this time out the exact kind of clever that knows \"relax, baby, be cool\" is the perfect refrain for a song, so long as the song's being song in German by a French woman. Fauxsmug European coolcat voices are always part of the draw with these two, especially for anyone more interested in how the Department of Homeland Security can profitably be namedropped than in vocals being particularly in tune.  Let me just note that I would never have expected, back in 1997, that Stereo Total would be sounding this good a decade later. But things have only changed in their favor; it's as if they should have been touring with CSS but accidentally formed a band too early. Better still, they've aged in their own favor: More and more, they sound right as hipsters in the old sense, the kind of kitschy hatwearing cats who should be running a thrift store and telling kids stories about bands they saw decades ago. It suits them, and they're indie treasures, and so long as they keep up their game like they have on this one, there's no reason they shouldn't have plenty of new kids listening to anything they have to say.  "}