{"label":" Skam","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1064/homepage_large.328c081d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Bola","title":"Soup","text":" I really feel my age when records happened upon in a labelfueled spree of whimsy in college (usually tethered to those first credit card apps) begin to exchange sweaty hands for absurd sums and get reissued again under the tag of \"classic.\" The early Skam catalog still goes for exorbitantly high prices, and while I snatched up the soft blue cardboard sleeve of Darrell Fitton's first fulllength as partinvestment, partlistening pleasure, it never sunk in as an outandout classic.Before I even realize it, though, here I am looking back nostalgically for those idyll days of IDM, when the programming and exponential mutations were secondary to how the emotive melodicism of the lines played out. Not much has changed on this reissue, really, save that Mr. Fitton's face has been replaced with a doodling by Skam's resident drawrer, Mr. England. Spotters may feel gypped by the reasonable pricing, but Pitchfork's blind readership will be chuffed to know that Skam's telltale Braille strip remains intact on the jewel case.Opening with a grandeur that recalls Aphex Twin's sweeping remix of Gavin Bryar's \"The Sinking of the Titanic\", \"Glink\" is an epic opener of alien gurgles, expansive strings, and slowly ventilating beats. Bola's pedigree extends back to Warp's Rosetta Stone of Artificial Intelligence (he actually appeared on Vol. 2) and that similar sort of synth classicism pervades the tracks. \"Versivo\" and \"Amnion.\" offer a middle ground between the \"golden\" sound of Autechre circa Amber (prealgorithmic number crunch) and the hazier hues of onetime labelmates Boards of Canada. Climbing between these two pillars, the vistas attained are still gorgeous, if not vaguely Kitaroesque, untouched by either time lapse or technological leaps.\"Forcasa\", separated into three sections, sweeps with grandeur through the middle of the album. The rhythms puncture the docile, near\"meditational\" hillside sounds like resonant aluminum rabbit fences. The consequent shine of the beat has a touch of rust, though, which keeps \"Forcasa 1\" rooted and earthy, the swells and sprung gusts of synth blowing across the structured metallic lattices in a glorious way. The second section reveals those pastures to be almost \"jungle,\" as the steel drums and cymbal hits patter like rain in denser keyboard layers.It ain't Metalheadz; in fact, it's closer to Vangelis' gestures and analogue ideals of space gas and ether than anyone could've suspected especially when compared to the more awkward Tricky blokehop of releases like the Mauver EP, or in brief lapses on the otherwise gorgeous Fyuti. \"Aguilla\", meanwhile, is a lost Skam classic from the ridiculously arcane pressings in the seveninch format, fully saved and realized in album form soon after. Bobbing on an overcast drum hit with just enough staticky crunch left at the center of its haze, Fitton effectively dribbles in choral curlicues and telltale flautist airs as intimate as anything the Boards do.Going back to Soup reveals its true properties: it's much more lowkey and subtle than his geographical peers near Manchester, yet mines a similar midtolate 90s aesthetic. Comforting and as innately familiar as Mom's homemade Split Pea, the melodic base is better clarified on this reissue, an alien lightness and separation in its soundtrack broth that stays buoyant and warm. A Miso perhaps? "}