{"label":" Fonal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10521/homepage_large.25de64a0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Kemialliset Ystävät","title":"Kemialliset Ystävät","text":"  The merging of folk ostensibly \"acoustic\" and electronics has been a slow, awkward grope session that has nonetheless produced some of the decade's freshest experimental music. The merging, though, implies a fundamental split in the sonics of the two realms, a gap that the Finnish experimental group Kemialliset Ystävät seems to ignore completely. To say that Kemialliset finds a synthesis between the acoustic and electronic would miss the point, as they never bother differentiating the two. In their simplified worldview sounds are homogeneous linear, even and are deployed as they become useful, without regard for their source. A loose collective captained by Jan Anderzén since 1995, Kemialliset are a longstanding example of the Finnish label Fonal's homespun brilliance. Their simplicity extends no further than their streamlined approach: Kemialliset Ystävät breathe in untold acoustic instruments, looped digital gristle, and wayward conversations and cough them out in alien ratios. Kemialliset do not experiment with genres so much as hazard upon them, like children gone exploring, sure that they're the first to discover and name a pond. Eastern psych, fife and drum bands, punk rock, and minimal house are but a few such ponds. The majority of Kemialliset Ystävät, though, functions on a significantly more abstract plane, one in which tinny strings shiver amid oily electronics and anything is a percussion instrument. Kemialliset nimbly juke in tight spaces, cherrypicking tiny, erudite rhythms out of their drag and drone. They often do this outside the realm of traditional rhythm instruments: \"Tulinen Kiihdytys\" whirs and chatters against the forest floor for two minutes before a single plucked string reveals itself as the tether. Looped vocal nonsense helps to anchor \"Valojuopot\". What is probably a violin knifes through \"Kokki, Leipuri, Kylvettäjä Ja Taikuri (Enna 132 Eaa.)\" as oscillating tones flirt in the background. When the band does employ actual drums, as on the shambling \"Näkymättömän Hipaisuja\", they sound like they've bitten off too much, like five people playing seven instruments, but doing so brilliantly. \"Superhimmeli\" fakes actual rock dynamics, farting about with a kick drum and chanting voices before a widescreen, hurried keyboard riff rends the track in two.  Kemialliset are ruthless editors though, rounding off most of Kemialliset Ystävät's 12 tracks in under four minutes, fragmenting their explorations into consumable portions. These short tracks, combined with the band's lilting, natural sense of rhythm, help obscure what the music, and those inscrutable song titles, screams: that Kemialliset Ystävät is devilishly raucous and shrilly obstructed tone noise. From Finland. A nearhilarious sense of clutter and secrecy pervades every sound they produce. It is approachable depending on your tolerance for abstraction, but it will almost certainly test that tolerance. Synapses fire and cool and fire again. Sparkplugs are blown and replaced. Revel in these miniature regenerations as long as you can, and be thankful that Kemialliset Ystävät has at least a tenuous hold of the reins. "}