{"label":" Skam","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1065/homepage_large.c5d68e99.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Bola","title":"Gnayse","text":" After spending a good chunk of time with Bola to prepare for this review, I began to wonder if Darrell Fitton's considerable rep in IDM circles might have a wee bit to do with his ultra low profile and reclusive nature. Back in 1995 he was on the second of Warp's Artificial Intelligence compilations and debuted with an EP on Skam in 1996, but he kept people waiting until 1998 for his debut album Soup. A trickle of singles, collaborations, and compilation tracks kept people interested but unfulfilled, during which time Bola's stature continued to grow. Both Soup and its followup, Fyuti, are good albums, but sometimes it seems as though Fitton's work nestles too easily into the classic Warp/Rephlex/Skam template. While you can't fault the construction of his tracks, one wishes his voice were just a bit more distinctive, that he had an easily identifiable signature to make him stand out in this crowded field. Gnayse doesn't quite remedy this situation, but it does present a departure, as Fitton moves Bola toward the fogshrouded hills of pastoral electronica. It's strange how this sort of thing works, really, that purely electronic sound born and developed inside rubberlined metal wires can evoke the leafy English countryside. But this chill seems far removed from the city center, conjuring instead with its long, patient melody lines a druggy stroll through a tangled garden. The change in sound comes mostly from abandoning Bola's tightly sequenced synths a nod to classic techno and replacing them with slowly unwinding single notes that hang in the air and dissipate slowly like smoke. The short and lovely \"Heirairerr\" is like a Harold Budd composition heavy on the Eno treatments, with echoing notes that seem too fragile to sit next to the whining drone that snakes through. Equally evocative is \"Sirasancerre\", which fades in slowly from silence, beginning with a faint murmur of what could be insects at Lizard Point, then introduces melodramatic synthetic strings and, eventually, a coughing beat. Though the opening of \"Papnwea\" suggests groaning machinery being pushed randomly by heavy wind, Fitton works his magic with synthetic sources, never peppering tracks with samples. This gives Gnayse a certain purity that helps it maintain its very specific mood. \"Papnwea\" illustrates another point when overbearing percussion bursts in just past the twominute mark. As happens occasionally with Boards of Canada, you sometimes wonder how Bola might sound if Fitton moved in an even more ambient direction. It's the beats, definitely, that keep Bola staked near prototypical IDM, what is by now an overly familiar sound. He does this style well better than most, probably but the pleasures to be had inside these narrow confines are not infinite. "}