{"label":" Cryptogramophone","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10528/homepage_large.f9b6b18d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"The Nels Cline Singers","title":"Draw Breath","text":"  Nels Cline is the maximalist guitar hero a \"20th Century Schizoid Man\" able to shred in the jazz, progrock, and knobtwiddling styles with equal dexterity. But following all of these various muses often makes his records hard to pin down. In the past Cline has leapt from hardcore noise to elegant fingerpicking to stoner doom in as many songs and Draw Breath his latest effort with the Nels Cline Singers, a trio featuring bassist Devin Hoff and drummer Scott Amendola is no different. \"CavedIn Heart Blues\" opens the record with sludgy pounding. Hoff and Amendola hold down a dull rhythmic thump while Cline picks out an achingly spare theme. An exercise in restraint, the song builds over the course of seven minutes into a haze of whirring and buzzing improvised electronics, only to solemnly return to its dire beginnings. Meanwhile, \"Confection\" is all slanted hooks and warped melodicism hurled out at high velocity. The crooked, Deerhoofinspired head transitions through some spacious improv noodling and finally into a truly killer Cline solo a postHendrix freakshow of highregister whammy bar screeching and ragged distortion. \"The Angel of Angels\" might have made a pretty good song for Cline's other fulltime band Wilco. Largely performed on acoustic guitars, it has a harmonic complexity that was largely lacking from the majority of Sky Blue Sky which for better or worse tended to dwell in the simplicity and spaciousness of Wake of the Flood eraGrateful Dead. As \"Angels\" climbs into the coda Cline colors in the strumming acoustic guitars with the spacey textures pedal steel, understated distortion, and even the sitar pedal that Jeff Tweedy has largely discarded.  \"Mixed Message\" lives up to its title, beginning as an outwardbound jazz workout but sliding through at least three completely different moods before coming to a close. Cline spends the first seven full minutes mired in freeform atonal shredding before the trio dips into burbling electronics and atmosphere. Amendola then picks up the pace driving the song into a heavy chugging postpunk conclusion.  As dexterous and admirable as all of this genre hopscotch is, it makes Draw Breath hard to differentiate from the other Nels Cline Singers records mainly because they're all equally schizophrenic. 2004's The Giant Pin slipped from opentuned Sonic Youthstyle rock to introspective jazz soloing, and 2002's Instrumentals slid from greasy blues to abstract noise in the same way Draw Breath sneaks in both fingerpicking and Sabbath riffs. Because of this constantly shifting focus it's hard to call any one album the definitive Nels Cline statement each record is just another group of solid but diffuse tunes. Draw Breath is another record of excellent Cline compositions, but where it stands in relation to his other work is a matter of personal preference. The only real unifying themes in Cline's career are creativity and excellent musicianship both of which Draw Breath has in heaps. "}