{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10530/homepage_large.d4d31328.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Tunng","title":"Good Arrows","text":"  Coming of age at a time when electronic and folk music were increasingly assimilating, Tunng's Mike Lindsay and Sam Genders like predecessors Nick Zammuto and Paul de Jong of the Books took an opposite tack, creating acoustic/electric folk that prided itself on showing its seams. It was hard to tell in which direction Tunng would head after the wellreceived Comments of the Inner Chorus, but as their third record Good Arrows shows, the band never fully embraced the Dadaist aesthetic they started with. Instead, they've proceeded fully toward the British progfolk idiom that was always a staple of their sound, with Lindsay dotting Genders' furry, monochromatic vocals with electronic irregularities, samples and stylistic flourishes.Arrows is warmer and fullersounding than anything Tunng's released, relying on isolated, strummed acoustic guitars that feel like they're floating in space as its primary aural component. Lindsay's bricabrac is still present, but it's largely subsumed to some of the most fleshedout songs the band's yet created. \"Bullets\" instantly ranks as the best song the band has ever made, and not just because it's the most richly melodic and traditionallystructured (although that doesn't hurt). It's also because the band's stab at a Beta Band/Super Furry Animals UK pastoral oompah fits them perfectly well (not hurting at all that Genders' voice, the record's second most prominent sonic element, falls somewhere between that of Gruff Rhys and Steve Mason). \"Bullets\" is followed by \"Soup\", which follows a chiming, electroacoustic first half with the first sighting of an electric guitar yet on a Tunng record; the second half rocks out to the same melody. As a result, this onetwo punch contrasts sharply with its more dour surroundings, the equivalent to stumbling upon a rural carnival on a sparsely populated countryside. Tunng's motion toward more traditional songwriting results in some occasionally pretty moments, but also in most of the music blending together in a dour haze. Genders' isn't a particularly strong tunesmith, and the vocal melodies here seldom rise above the simple pleasantness of his voice, smartly paired with Becky Jacobs' airy tone. Lyrically, he falls too often into the trap of telling too much when the songs would be better served by just showing, especially with Lindsay's expressive arsenal of effects at hand. At the end of \"Hands\", for instance, his repetition of the line \"all the little stars\" sounds like an accidentally leftin production cue for a section that would work better instrumentally, and as \"Arms\" threatens to brush up against big epic territory in its second half, Genders anticlimactically repeats the most prosaic refrain: \"here I go again.\" Lindsay's pallette does come in quite handy on a few songs, however; like Tarwater, he works with Genders' pallid vocals to make humid and occasionally acrid, antique and murky music. \"Take\" has the creakiness of an old home and occasional swells of what sounds like a decaying piano, and the barely perceptible atmospherics on \"Arms\" are drawn partialy from a sample of a crackling campfire. In the end, however, although Good Arrows is aimed in the direction of a synthesis between the band's two predominant elements, the result misses the target by just a bit.  "}