{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10541/homepage_large.da19b294.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Supermayer","title":"Save the World","text":" Kompakt's history of embracing pop has always walked a fine line between selfawareness and seriousness. No one could cover Brian Eno as crunchy synthpop (Superpitcher's \"Baby's on Fire\") or have a robot recite Sade over a strippeddown techhouse groove (Michael Mayer's \"Love Is Stronger Than Pride\") without planting their tongue somewhere in the vicinity of their cheek. But at the same time, this levity has been counterbalanced with the earnestness that's characterized the label's most emotive (and at times melodramatic) anthems see the rainsoaked optimism of Superpitcher's \"Tomorrow\", or the wistfully sighing vamps on Mayer's \"Falling Hands\". The label's flagship acts, Mayer and Superpitcher (real name Aksel Schaufler), have long flirted with both extremes of this pop spectrum (as well as a hefty chunk of straightforwardly physical dancefloor numbers), so their teaming up for an album under the Supermayer moniker left many anticipating that this might be the ultimate statement of Kompakt's emohouse aesthetic. However, their halfhearted concept album Save the World (if you can discern any concept beyond the garish coverart you've beaten me) very deliberately refuses to rise to this challenge. Instead, the duo offer a ramshackle assemblage of dancefloor tracks, eccentric stabs at pop, and cinematic interludes with names like \"Superbrain Transmission\" and \"Psychoprogs Attack\". The distinction may be difficult to spot, as Mayer and Schaufler essentially are deploying the same stylistic tics in new combinations. This can be seen in the first proper song, \"The Art of Letting Go\", which lays a strained, singsongy Schaufler vocal over a fitful live disco groove and an array of unexpected musical effects. Rather than execute an unlikely popcontraption with deadpan seriousness, \"The Art of Letting Go\" sounds like a giant arrow pointing to a raised eyebrow. This is levity of the wrong kind: Whereas Mayer and Reinhard Voigt's \"Unter Null\" courted disaster (but ultimately won over listeners) by including a Jam & Spoonstyle Balearic guitar hook, Supermayer's pop tracks preclude such risks through overt humour, childlike wonkiness and selfconsciously small gestures. But smaller risks means smaller rewards, and while such moments can be charming, they're difficult to really love. Which is not to say that the album isn't enjoyable, or that some of the duo's diversions aren't interesting. \"The Lonesome King\" is a surprisingly pretty psuedomedieval ballad, flutes and synthesisers harmonising with winsome lugubriousness. The sparkly and bouncy, goblinvoiced \"Us and Them\" sounds like the work music for the elves in Santa's workshop, but is less annoying and more enjoyable than you'd think. At times such efforts recreate the magic whimsicality of labelmate Justus Köhncke's best work, but this kind of thing is Köhncke's home turf, whereas Mayer and Schaufler sound like they're only just getting their bearings. If Mayer and Schaufler were more prolific, this investment in a slight, mildly halfbaked side project would be more sympathetic. But it's been three years since these artists released their respective debut albums, with only the barest trickle of solitary tracks since then, and Save the World's blithe disregard of expectations can seem trying. Amidst such recalcitrance, it's a breath of fresh air to encounter the brooding, synthladen techhouse of \"Saturndays\", whose bleepy chords, wet snares and shimmering synthesisers so straightforwardly fuse the most recognisable aspects of Mayer and Schaufler's respective aesthetics that on a stronger album the track might be dismissed as generic.  As such, this is an easy album to underestimate and then dismiss. Which would be a shame, as there's a fair amount of very good material here, from the plangent piano tinkling and Balearic glide of \"Please Sunrise\", to the energetic uptempo Chicago house of \"Planet of the Sick\". What the album needs is one or two knockout moments to anchor the duo's wanderings. The closest it comes is \"Two of Us\", a menacing track whose unexpected glockenspiel hook falls just on the right side of cheese. It's close to thrilling, but it's not moving, and it's the lack of a single moment to make your heart swell that feels like Save the World's fatal flaw.     "}