{"label":" Hungry Mouse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10537/homepage_large.27505649.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Nellie McKay","title":"Obligatory Villagers","text":" If the craft of songwriting isn't necessarily the most glamorous aspect of being a musician, it's nonetheless a perpetually exercised artistic discipline especially for the breed of musician committed to coming up with good old popular song. Nellie McKay for all intents and purposes, a posterchild for the Old Masters of Song writes tunes that take advantage of any number of patterns and modulations used by her musical forefathers (Gershwin, Rodgers & Hart, Weill, Leiber & Stoller), yet manage to seem a little offthecuff. Part of this is down to her performances, but many of the songs themselves have an aspect of \"I wrote this in 20 minutes, and I can do it again,\" while still being structurally sound, rarely betraying any musical cornercutting. On her third record, Obligatory Villagers, McKay's craft is in full splendor. The credits read, \"all songs written, arranged & orchestrated by Nellie McKay,\" and listening to the Technicolor, showstopping ensemble figures in \"Oversure\", or the big Broadway rock of \"Testify\", it's very easy to marvel at the assured hand of the composer/arranger. Indeed, OV is McKay's best sounding disc yet, which is especially good news after occasionally flat production on both her debut and last year's mildly underrated (but still overstuffed) Pretty Little Head. Still, sheer craft and arranging chops can't always save her songs. I've listened to \"Zombie\" a dozen times, and I'm still not really sure what it's about. Best I can figure, McKay's protagonist (herself? It's possible the \"I\" in her songs takes a page out of fellow classic popateer Randy Newman's songbook, and doesn't ever actually refer to the singer) travels down South, possibly encounters a curse in a swamp, and is urged to \"do the Zombie.\" (Other Pitchfork staffers insist it's a political song about our sleepwalking through the GWB years.) The light blues feel doesn't really help the song's cause, except to emphasize its showtunewithoutashow feel. \"Testify\" stuffs a whole show's worth of arranging into one song, going through brassy fanfare, doublelite rockopera (uncomfortably similar to what Bill Conti might come up with to introduce Oscar presenters), faux gospel and though McKay's melodies are foolproof, the familiar feeling that I'm hearing someone's private musical revue without the benefit of knowing any of the back story, or having any particular emotional nagging to investigate just why the protagonist is urging us to \"testify, raise your hands up to the sky.\"  My favorite stuff is on songs like the opener \"Mother of Pearl\", where McKay again recalls Newman by employing straightfaced irony and vague sarcasm to illustrate the absurdity of her subjects in this case, feminists (\"feminists don't have a sense of humor… they have a tumor on their funny bone\"). Sure, there's a tapdance break in the middle, and the band's \"funny\" responses to her lines are hit and miss, but it's the still kind of song that makes it impossible for me to not at least be curious about how she develops as a songwriter. Likewise, \"Oversure\" is both the crown of McKay's arrangements, and the most musically interesting moment on Obligatory Villagers, speeding through bebop changes, syncopated, stop/start rhythms, and even the first of several cameos by infamous songwriter/singer Bob Dorough. And even though the song could be heard as yet another song missing a musical, the visceral ride through all of its many detailed sections thrills my, er, muso bone.  Of course, McKay starred on Broadway last year, playing Polly Peachum in a limited run of Weill/Brecht's classic Threepenny Opera. Given the theatrical nature of many of the songs on OV, it's not a stretch to forecast she'll be penning her own musicals in the nottoodistant future; as her senses of melody and harmonic movement (and perhaps most importantly, humor) seem more pronounced, more assured with each record, I really do look forward to hearing her try. I guess I just hope the content of her songs follows suit. "}