{"label":" Decon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10546/homepage_large.5caeb0e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Aceyalone","title":"Lightning Strikes","text":"  History says that hiphop is the Americanized offspring of reggae, with its evolution from toasting to rapping and selectors to cutandscratch DJs already well defined by the late 1970s. And ever since roughly 1980 or so when Welton Irie's \"Hotter Reggae Music\" and General Echo's \"Rapping Dub Style\" flipped rudeboy variations of \"Rapper's Delight\" rap's been able to let that background rear its head a few times, whether it's KRSOne's Jamaican inflections in BDP's \"9mm Goes Bang\", Wyclef's Bob Marley maneuvers, or the remix of \"This Is Why I'm Hot\" where dancehall stars Cham and Junior Reid completely upstage MIMS. But most of the better rapreggae crossovers tend to show up as oneoff singles or brief changes of pace on otherwise straightforward hiphop records, and there's not much evidence proving the workability of an album with 45 minutes worth of this stuff. Give Aceyalone some credit: even outside the spotlight of mainstream rap, it's not easy running risks like Lightning Strikes, his declared first in a series of genresplice projects that will eventually extend to the more familiar rap crossover territory of jazz and funk. But if someone had to do it, why would it be a backpacker favorite whose strength is largely in abstract battle raps? Sure, Acey's an accomplished veteran, and even if the two albums he released last year (Grand Imperial and the RJD2produced Magnificent City) had their share of tossedoff duds, he's easily one of the more accessible and likeable MCs out of the West Coast's underground working today next to Murs. The theme of Lightning Strikes sees him display a talent for switching up his delivery without going overboard: his subtle halfwaydancehall semipatois is a little off but not to the point of distraction, and aside from his standard flow he also rolls out a couple surprises, like the deliberate mid80s delivery on the electrodub \"Help Us All\" or the sinister ruffneck growl of \"Sound Gun\". Aceyalone sounds completely in control and effortlessly charismatic, even when he's rapping about a whole lot of not much and get ready for a few exhibits of that on this record; he seems to be treading a little water lyrically, and there's not much he says that sticks in your head unless you're highly attuned to interpolations of RunD.M.C. and Roots lyrics. Expecting the dense weirdness of his great 1995 debut All Balls Don't Bounce, the conceptual weight of 1998's A Book of Human Language, or the indierap allstar symposium of 2003's Love & Hate might leave you wanting, but considering this is his third album in about twenty months, he hasn't lost too many steps, and when he's got his Agame going his flow alone can redeem all but the stalest and cheesiest beats.  But the problem with Lightning Strikes isn't that the beats are stale and cheesy far from it, as Bionik's production is inoffensive at worst, as long as you like glossy digital Caribbean rhythms. The problem is that, even with Aceyalone's lyrical style toned down a little, the attempted merging of underground rap and popreggae makes Lightning Strikes sort of a mess, even if it's the kind of mess where half the tracks are fairly likeable. Some of the riddims might give a hit or two to an accomplished dancehall artist; the IndoJamaican bounce of \"PickAPart\" and the wall of carnival drums in \"Shango\" would fit in pretty well in the 2007 entry of Greensleeves' Ragga Ragga Ragga series if, say, Beenie Man got ahold of them. But Aceyalone doesn't have the rugged, authoritative voice to complement the beats, and aside from \"Sound Gun\" he actually sounds a bit too relaxed and mellow.  Compare Acey's RunD.M.C.lifted chorus and cocky smoothness to Zulu's daggerstab flow on \"When I Woke Up\", or pit him against the manic oldschoolBusta wildness of reoccurring guest toaster Jah Orah, and the disparity is even starker. Even Chali 2NA's turn on \"Easy\" makes him sound tougher than the headliner, all because he's got some bass in his voice. (That said, I'd take the most laidback Aceyalone verse over one more goddamned overlyautotuned chorus any day.) Oddly enough, there's one track, \"To the Top\", that doesn't really sound much like dancehall at all, instead resembling some assemblage of country, blues, gospel, military cadence and jumprope songs. It's not the only song where Aceyalone sounds good, but it's the only one where he really sounds at home. "}