{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10558/homepage_large.40f14062.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"The Fiery Furnaces","title":"Widow City","text":"  First things first: No radical shifts on this new Fiery Furnaces album. After a few years of watching the band veer off through fascinating tangents and \"difficult\" tactical shifts, I'm guessing most people will tell you this record feels like the one where they've rounded all the bases and go coasting in toward home melding together all their established habits and slamming through them with extra vigor, more weight, fuller body. Which either raises or answers a strange question: Why is it that some of the biggest Furnacelovers I know are telling me that they're...not so much feeling this one? I mean, the Friedberger siblings are both in decent form here. In between playing fun production tricks with their live drummer (cool stereo imaging!), Matthew spends his time melding opposite ends of the 1970s, this album's mental home: One minute he's ramming through ersatz Led Zeppelin riffs on bass and keyboards; the next he's coaxing softrock and soul arrangements out of the string and woodwind settings on a wheezy Chamberlin organ, a terrific addition to their sound. And Eleanor still acts the part of a paranoid conspiracy theorist with an unhappy marriage, a fixation on 20thcentury American history, and a lot of miles on her car, lurking outside the nearest museum with some crazy letters and a skewed impression of the judicial powers of a grand jury. The best song here has a middleaged woman posting arcane Xeroxes around the University of Chicago campus as Fiery Furnacelike a place as you can imagine while consulting a 6,000page book of hieroglyphs. It all sounds cleaner and more accessible than anything they've done in the past, but that might actually be part of the problem. These two are notorious for their tangents tearing through disjointed medleys, changing gears at the slightest provocation but on their previous records, that habit still sounded charged and chaotic: They felt genuinely unpredictable, crashing from one place to another like they were discovering ground along the way. The full, clean sound of Widow City tends to break the spell, and a lot of the splicedtogether song structures just sound mannered, dutiful, and perfunctory, like bad habits or busy work. The sevenminute opener might spend half its running time slinking and strutting through a great pop tune, but the back end just reiterates its few melodies in various arrangements Chamberlin flute, hard rock, progbass ticktock that offer seriously diminishing returns, if not visions of Matthew holding up Wile E. Coyote signs: \"HOLD ON, I'M THINKING UP THE POINT.\" Those obligatory splices are frustrating, surrounded as they are by evidence that this band probably doesn't need them. The most endlessly replayable thing on here turns out not to be some knotty, jigsawpuzzled epic, but a song called \"My Egyptian Grammar\", which lets its slow groove breathe in fresh air for a good threeandahalf minutes a steady bass stroll shot through with harp filigrees and canned Romantic strings. Yes, it sounds a lot like this band's own \"Evergreen\", but there are songs both good and interesting buried throughout Widow City; what's odd is that the Fiery Furnaces have reached the point where their signature scattershot pacing clutters up those gems as often as it gives them spark.  Not that Furnacelovers won't still get plenty of worthwhile jigsaw puzzles to play with or flashbacks to the hearty, more traditional pop of their early days. The lyrics here are a little less opaque than they've been in the past, grounding themselves in a world of edgecity duplexes, rotten old husbands, and selfhelp seminars. During the second half, Matthew drops the fullbodied pop of the opening and gets raucous: Following some serious riffs on \"Navy Nurse\", the songs offer tightly scripted collages that cop sounds from scattershot prog and freejazz, in and around funk interludes, flutey softrock idylls, jackedup percussion fills, and patchworks of sampled noises. And they get back some of that old, rambling energy but is that even what you want anymore? Widow City offers the biggest peek yet into how well these two could operate and how fascinating and idiosycratic they'd still sound if they followed their sounds through, creating breathing, fullbodied human beings with stories to tell, as opposed to lurching, halfanimate, ADHD Frankensteins that speak in ransomnote cutups. It's a strange thing to criticize, but the goodness of that stuff is actually beginning to make their old fun tricks seem like something to outgrow and suggests their compromises between arch pop and dutiful rambling are far from the most interesting places they could wind up.  "}