{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10559/homepage_large.70b1c7d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Band of Horses","title":"Cease to Begin","text":"  Following the success of their debut Everything All the Time and the subsequent departure of founding member Mat Brooke, the remaining members of Band of Horses moved from Seattle to Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, and set to recording their followup, Cease to Begin, in Asheville. Thousands of landlocked miles from the Great Salt Lake, this crosscountry change of scenery is subtly apparent: If Everything All the Time was a Pacific Northwest indie album with flourishes of country and Southern rock, then Cease to Begin reverses the equation. Putting a different regional spin on their tenderhearted indie rock, however, doesn't change up the sound too much the guitars still churn and crest majestically, Bridwell's vocals still echo with grandiose reverb but simply creates an atmosphere evocative of something like autumn in a small town. This geographical move and musical development both seem like logical progressions for Band of Horses, and not just because Bridwell originally hails from the South. The trio sounds more at home on Cease to Begin, and more confident writing about this specific neck of the woods. As a result, they shed many of the comparisons that dogged Everything All the Time last year: Every review had to mention the Shins, My Morning Jacket, or the Flaming Lips (me: guilty). Cease to Begin finds them opening up their sound, drawing in more ideas and giving the music the loping quality of a long walk down a dirt road. As crunchy guitars give way to light strings on \"Ode to LRC\", Bridwell sings about a stray dog and a \"town so small how could anybody not look you in the eye or wave as I drive by.\" He's one of few indie artists who can sell a line like \"the world is such a wonderful place\" or get away with singing \"ladeeda\" with openhearted amazement. On \"Detlef Schrempf\", for example, he sings, with heartfelt gravity, \"Watch how you treat every living soul,\" and still somehow sounds bold and genuine.  On the other hand, Cease to Begin's looser vibe preempts the big moments that gave Everything All the Time its gravity. Listeners looking for another \"Funeral\" or \"Great Salt Lake\" may come away disappointed, making do with only the airborne rush of opener \"Is There a Ghost\". These songs go for texture and shade over size and scale, an admirable shift even if Band of Horses don't always pull it off. On \"Cigarettes Wedding Band\", they can't churn up enough bile to convey Bridwell's bitter lyrics; instead of contrasting the album's sweettea tone, the song simply reflects it, revealing the limits of their range. Still, Bridwell does accomplish the nifty trick of turning an accusation into a formidable pop hook: \"While they lieddeedie! Lahdeedah! While they lied!\"  As they move southeasterly, Band of Horses may bear some derision as dadrock at best, or as granola at worst. And yes, there are moments here that support those stereotypes: The sequencing of two downtempo ballads (\"No One's Gonna Love You\", \"Detlef Schrempf\") slows the album's first half almost to a halt. But even if Cease to Begin is a little creaky and uneven and even if it never finds the resting spot the album title promises, Band of Horses do guitarbased indie very well well enough, at least, that the next generation of American indie bands may bear comparisons to them. The album closes with \"Window Blues\", a slow, aching number that fades into a simple \"Rainbow Connection\" banjo outro that gives the album a snowglobe quality, despite the warmer Carolina climate. These songs depict a personal world in great detail, contained within a small space. Sure, Band of Horses could stand to shake it up a bit, but for now Bridwell seems content just to enjoy the view.  "}