{"label":" Cuneiform","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10557/homepage_large.6dd63b29.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Ahleuchatistas","title":"Even in the Midst...","text":"  We live in an era where most music is painstakingly produced the recording studio is an instrument, and the sound of a record can be as important as (or even more important than) the songs it's built around. It's not the first time it's happened in popular music's long history, and of course the studio focus has led to tons of great music. But I tend to notice when an artist (or at least a nonjazz artist) rejects heavy production and makes a record that's just instruments, recorded as basically as possible, playing with few addons or tweaks. That's what this Asheville, N.C., instrumental trio has done on every one of its records. The singleminded commitment of their approach borders on stubbornness, but it's produced three good albums in the past, and you can now add a fourth to the list. Even in the Midst... at times takes a more measured approach to the tangled phrases, sudden turns, and flailing dissonance by which the band has defined itself think of what the Magic Band might have sounded like on Trout Mask Replica without Captain Beefheart at the helm. As in the past, the band not only eschews postproduction, but most live effects as well. Bassist Derek Poteat coaxes a few funny tones from his instrument, but guitarist Shane Perlowin left all the pedals at the guitar store and gets by solely on his choice of notes and chords. Drummer Sean Dail keeps to his basic kit, doing most of his work on the snare, hihat, and some very tightly tuned toms.  The band's core dynamic stems from the way they ride the line between tight, oddmetered groove and outright chaos, and the divide between disunity and unity gives the first track, \"...Of All This\", its structure. It opens with a series of splintered phrases that sounds about like a bird's nest looks. Then it trips some sort of wire and all three members lock into a breakneck martial/Martian rhythm that carries into a series of guitar phrases that, if isolated, might not sound out of place on a Byrds album. \"Cup of Substance\" is only 56 seconds long, but it's a thrashing thrill for all 56 of them. \"KBit\" has an excellently tense buildup in the middle, this time constructed as much from its chord progression as from the band's speed and dissonance the outro is one of the band's most melodic moments.  The band fails rarely, but where they do, they fail in two ways: In a couple of places, when the band seems to want a challenge, the music becomes somewhat overcomplicated and it becomes easy to lose the thread; there are also a few moments where the payoff for following the disjointed passages simply isn't powerful enough. These moments usually invade a track briefly, only to be superseded by something that works better. There's also something of a familiarity factor creeping in, given that their approach has remained fundamentally the same since day one. Indeed, for all its qualities, Even in the Midst... is Ahleuchatistas' least bracing album so far. It's still possessed of many moments of beauty and mayhem, though, and in joining those moments together with their sense of composition, they've made a record that a lot of fans of complex yet unadorned instrumental music will find rewarding.  "}