{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10570/homepage_large.2a98db80.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Cass McCombs","title":"Dropping the Writ","text":" Cass McCombs sings and writes songs, but he's not a singersongwriter in the conventional sense. Always willing to play the angles, McCombs sounded more like a spotlightfriendly frontman than a singular songsmith on 2005's dense, multilayered PREfection, hiding behind walls of reverb and a hodgepodge of musical stylings rather than crooning directly into the mic. Even on threadbare debut A, McCombs crosspollinated folksy shuffles with artpop tropes, daring listeners to earnestly connect with his gorgeous yet arcane ballads. A less challenging artist with the same skill set set would probably be polishing his mound of gold records right now, but McCombs revels in ambiguity, not accessibility. While two quality fulllengths and an EP haven't reserved him a spot on indie's marquee yet, McCombs still possesses a prodigal glow. Named after the parliamentary procedure in which the head of government requests a dissolution of parliament, Dropping the Writ suggests a reinvention for McCombs both in its title and the fact it's his first release on Domino. Of course, McCombs doesn't know the meaning of the word \"sellout,\" so any jitters surrounding his label promotion should be allayed. This is, after all, the same nut who only disclosed his debut's lyrics if fans were willing to personally mail him a SASE. Still, although the gussied up Writ doesn't find him morphing into a more indieappealing form like Josh Ritter or Spoon, it's hard not noticing some edge has been taken off the curio's sound and mystique. From \"AIDS in Africa\" to \"Equinox\"'s infamous line \"Silverfish quilting testicle/ Despotic owl conducts the wolves,\" McCombs has beckoned listeners to dissect his oblique lyrics with the rigor of a piece of high literature. Hell, the guy could even pass for a Faulkner or Steinbeck in recent press pics. Writ, by comparison, feels lyrically straightforward, with the occasional idiosyncratic line thrown in merely for flavor. Opener and origin story \"Lionkiller\" sets a rare tone for McCombs he's content to talk about himself. \"I was born in a hospital\" he sings, echoing A opener \"I Went to the Hospital\", before unveiling other selfmythologized details of his upbringing over a rolling \"Rawhide\"style riff. The lyrical elucidation here extends to the music, as McCombs whittles PREfection's overgrown genre exploration down to easily digestible folk, chalk full of the Americanisms you'd expect from an acoustictoting Yank. His Smiths and Cure tics have all but vanished, and even on McCartneyesque tracks like \"Pregnant Pause\" or \"Full Moon or Infinity,\" the cheery anglo pop's undercut by the sort of detached dreariness typically reserved for Elliott Smith tunes. For the most part though, McCombs is content to lean back and strum away, gazing at the stars rather than his shoes. Yes, a couple unorthodox moments occur, such as the squawky melismatic \"No meeeans yes!\" chorus of \"Petrified Forest\" or the arpeggiating falsetto on \"Deseret\", but Writ mostly avoids conspicuous ideas. Maybe McCombs is trying to prove he's not dependent on eyebrowfurrowing eccentricities, but Writ, with its cut and dry approach, lacks the replay value of his previous releases. While this album may help broaden McCombs's closeknit circle of musichungry fans, the indie renegade aspect of his music is sorely missed, even if his remarkable raw talent keeps this effort comfortably afloat. "}