{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1069/homepage_large.159920bd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Bottom of the Hudson","title":"The Omaha Record","text":" Be posthuman! Mix and link these together to form your own review of this album! The first 666 respondents get a fauxsilkscreen Che Guavara tshirt! The next 14 typists get a copy of R.E.M.'s homewreckin' Monster! I got my third Tascam Portastudio today from an eBayer (sorry, dude, I don't do feedback, because ANARCHY) and on the toilet I was reading the hilarious manual The Fast Track to MultiTrack, with stuff about how Sgt. Pepper was made on a fourtrack. Whoo doggie. Inspiring. If Phil Elvrum made this album, one would barely be able to approach it for the moat of critical spooge. Jack Logan's Bulk should be the last album to be culled from a bunch of homemade demos. Because critics just call subsequent collages Bulklike. Is the album title a shoutout to the clackity classic The Arizona Record by Silver Jews? Does it have Nebraska's nascent scenelords in mind? In his fascinating essay entitled \"The 'Feminization' of Rock\", Tony Grajeda argues that lofi represents a girling of genre, using both Pavement and Sebadoh's terrified response to the spectacle of roidrage that is Henry Rollins. (Grajeda also examines the masculine adculture around hifi equipment.) Which is funny, because The Omaha Record, an example of 2003 lofi, is pretty durn asexual. What are these songs about? One senses that Hudson's resident genius Eli Simon's only passion is to make more songs. Many of these cuts are klezmercore. Muszikas meets powerpop. Indiemarch. Gritpolka. Damn if the bedroom vanguard didn't succumb to overproduction (see Liz Phair's Matrix abomination, see Pavement and Beck's work with Radiohead's knobpolisher). For those who love blasts: \"The Chilling Sorcerer\" and \"Tokyo\" build to sharp, tremendous, glammy blasts. (This wily, scattershot disc has served as relief pitcher on many a mix CD this summer.) Hey, speaking of Sgt. Pepper, these soggy Bottom boys love that Beatle solotone, which they bring to The Beach Boys on \"Eagle Eye\" and to the countrified work of the Rolling Stones on \"Omaha Ray\" (which owes its soul to \"Factory Girl\"). Can you say 1960s? Waiter, this gravy is wavy! But wait! Simon often earns the title of Bedroom Bowie, especially on the excellent \"Motorcade\"! But wait! Simon often sounds like a Virginian ambassador for New Zealand's Tall Dwarfs and Peter Jeffries. Who doesn't love when patriots cop redcoat accents? Hi, Liars! Hi, Mr. Pollard (did you serve as a consultant on \"Pockets\", with its youesque lyric, \"The fact of the matter is, my friend, they sold you to the wind king\"?)! The intro to the babyfat \"Shoop\" crosses the line of Barlowhomage by looping its \"behindthescenes\" selfdeprecatus. Meanwhile, \"Red Election\", despite Polaracaliber lyrics and vox, explodes into skree worthy of Rollerskate Skinny and the late, great Jellyfish Kiss. Even devotees of pawnshop drum machines must admit that this act is a chunk of studio time away from shedding its everyband veneer. Pity their versatility for being cast into a world in which an \"album\" is burdened with being considered a coherent statement rather than an audio diary of the last few years' divergent strains. "}