{"label":" 54º40' or Fight!","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10581/homepage_large.d17db82e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Carol Bui","title":"Everyone Wore White","text":"  Carol Bui sings like a woman with perfect posture. The music reels from raucous to serene, and the lyrics run the emotional gamut from chaotic families to foreboding weddings to figuring out how to cyberflirt. But even when she bellows a chorus, tells stories out of school about motherdaughter strife, or bites off a lyric about starving to fit into a dress, Bui's bold tone is steady as a rock.Everyone Wore White is Bui's second LP, following her 2004 debut This Is How I Recover. Bui has been compared to Kristin Hersh, partly because they're both women who tear it up on guitar. But her writing and her fretwork equal parts punk, blues, piss, and a pedestal to stand on hew closer to those of J. Robbins in Jawbox and Burning Airlines, or, considering her gift for tunes, maybe Heart. Her fierce guitar, matched by cellist Jenny Petrow, creates soaring melodic hard rock with engrossing sincerity as Bob Mould has proven, you can't b.s. a cello. Credit Aloha's T. J. Lipple for the drum work and the stellar production, which translates her intensity to record without losing its beauty or nuance. In the tradition of her hometown of Washington, D.C., she's made a punkbred record where the guitar is loud but the tunes prevail. Sometimes the mix poises her too angelically above the fray for example, the verse of \"St. Elizabeth's\", before the chorus rages in. And listeners who crave angst might find Bui reserved, although it's hard to picture not being moved by the abused lover on \"Hypnagogia\" who lists her blows and explains, \"I can't lose composure.\" The most striking performance closes the album: she sings the traditional song \"Qua Cầu Gió Bay\" (\"The Wind on the Bridge\") a capella, in a tone so powerful it fills in the meaning that's lost if you don't speak Vietnamese. According to one translation online, it's a song about the things you do on a bridge with a boy that you'll never speak of to your ma and pa. And from the sound of her voice, Bui doesn't regret a thing.  "}