{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10579/homepage_large.4860730e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Billie Holiday","title":"Lady Day: The Master Takes and Singles","text":"  When I hear music like this a 4xCD box set collecting highlights from Billie Holiday's 19331944 tenure on Columbia I tend to get as close to the music as possible. For me, listening to records this old begins with the specific timbral qualities of the recordings the crackles, the hiss, the way the ends of the sonic spectrum slope gently away from the alwaysdominant midrange, where, in this case, the horns and vocals reside. In the 1930s record buyers were amazed by the fidelity of these 78s, but now newcomers are apt to refer to this music as \"lofi\"; the music sounds its age. Titles like \"What a Little Moonlight Can Do\" and \"One, Two, Button Your Shoe\" also serve to fix the music firmly in a distant past, one only clearly remembered by octogenarians. These records are artifacts, which is an inescapable part of their appeal, and that begins with the specific qualities of the recorded sound. Given this, the tendency to enshrine the music in museums is understandable and even natural, even though it may not serve the music itself. In 2001 Columbia Records released Lady Day: The Complete Billie Holiday on Columbia 19331944, a 10xCD box set collecting all the sides Holiday recorded for the imprint during the period, from which this set selects. Jazz buffs widely consider these to be her greatest years, when she was young (still in her teens when the first sides appeared), healthy, and, for the first few years of her tenure, wasn't yet shackled with her Queen of Pain persona. She was a singer working with some of the best musicians in the business and her name wasn't always the first name to appear on the record label. In the early going it was more likely to be that of pianist Teddy Wilson and His Orchestra. People were paying to hear Roy Eldridge on trumpet and Lester Young on tenor saxophone, and if there was an interesting girl singer with a sassy tone and unusual phrasing, all the better. Holiday's singing on these early tracks is loose, playful, and flirtatious: \"Miss Brown to You\" is her \"My name ain't baby, it's Billie\" moment; \"Spreadin' Rhythm Around\" delivers on the promise of its title, with Holiday seeming to duet with drummer Cozy Cole, as they grip the tune's central groove like two hands making waves with a Slinky; \"No Regrets\" is a touch slower but the band again swings mightily, as Holiday sounds like she's projecting her love affirmation to the back row; the midtempo \"They Can't Take That Away From Me\" pushes forward with a drunken gait, as Holiday explicates precisely what was hers. All in all the first two discs are fountains of good cheer, even when the subject matter is gloomy. The Depression was on but you wouldn't know it by the liveliness and vitality permeating these early songs; no wonder people listened to this stuff to forget their problems.  Holiday's 1939 recording of \"Strange Fruit\", a haunting depiction of lynching not found here (it was recorded for Commodore) was a turning point in her career, as she began to recognize the profound effect her voice could have in more melancholy settings. She transformed from \"Lady Day\" to \"Lady Sings the Blues\", increasingly lending her vocal instrument to expressions of grief and loss. The line between her phases is obviously much blurrier. There are hints of the sadness that would gradually envelop her work on tracks like 1937's weary, resigned \"Things Are Looking Up\". She even seems to hear the tragiccomic potential in the punchy, faster \"When You're Smiling\", with its lyrics that suggests that true happiness works from the outside in (from \"When you're smiling/ The whole world smiles with you\").  By the third disc's closing \"Some Other Spring\", cut in 1939, in which her increasingly fragilesounding voice Holiday brushes against the soft and gloomy horns, she's sounding pretty different. This is the more sophisticated and \"arty\" Holiday that would often record with strings for Decca in the 1940s, as her work sometimes took on a gothic quality (and elsewhere sounded much sweeter) and she became comfortable outside of a proper jazz setting. All that came later, but the seeds were clearly sown with the tracks on the fourth disc here. The production has changed (Holiday's voice is further in front; the horns and rhythm section are muted) as has the song selection, with the emphasis shifting to ballads. Holiday gives \"The Man I Love\" and \"Body and Soul\" haunting readings, lagging way behind the beat and giving the quirks of her voice much latitude. With \"God Bless the Child\" and \"I Cover the Waterfront\" she had found the strange, otherworldly songs to suit the mood and her approach. You miss her youthful energy a bit by this point, but there is no denying the palpable ambience of these tracks.  Back to that sound quality for a moment. Maybe it has been a while since I've heard a new batch of reissues transferred from 78s, but there's virtually no surface noise on most of these tracks (which I miss a little, frankly) and the cleanup doesn't seem to have been done at the expense of a full frequency range. I doubt these songs have sounded this bright since they were first put on Victrolas back in the day. As far as the packaging, the detailed notes in the box set are informative, and the set continues a long tradition in Columbia reissues of not necessarily praising the music at every turn; weak songwriting and halfhearted performances are duly noted in the trackbytrack rundown, which is refreshing and gives the commentary more weight.  There's also an incisive essay in the box by Village Voice critic Gary Giddins, which provides context to those unfamiliar with the ofttold story (her youth hanging out in brothels, her discovery by John Hammond, her string of bad relationships). The historical backdrop and Holiday's narrative are interesting in their own right, and both are of course important if one wants to fully understand these recordings. But like my fetish for the sound of the old 78s, these details can also obscure something important: We're talking about pop songs. People cutting these tracks wanted to sell lots of copies and make money. These discs were loaded into jukeboxes. People partied and danced and had sex while Billie Holiday tunes were playing in the vicinity. The records were alive and immediate and it's worth our while to try and imagine what that might have felt like.  "}