{"label":" Rainbow Quartz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10585/homepage_large.d5d803f9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"The Capstan Shafts","title":"Environ Maiden","text":" Up until very recently, Dean Wells was something of a mystery. Having released six shockingly consistent homerecorded fulllengths as the Capstan Shafts, Wells had yet to play a single live show, release a photograph of himself, or even maintain his own MySpace page. Was he a crazy recluse? Hideously disfigured? Cthulhu? For all the speculation among a small cabal of internet nerds (myself, admittedly, included), it turns out there was never really any mystery at all. Chalk it up to the inherent strangeness of the information age a musician like Wells only seems enigmatic and suspect at a time when access to an artist's personal information is considered a godgiven right, and many bands seem more interested in online selfpromotion than writing songs. It's sad that this should mark him as such an anachronism, but Wells is a true pop craftsman, working regularly and diligently on his music and not particularly concerned with the trappings of selfpromotion. No wonder his songs are among the best being written today. While Environ Maiden will likely be Wells' entry into the world of indie rock at large, the album itself reflects no such change. Largely comprised of older tracks (including some from 2006's The Megafauna Undermined), Environ Maiden is firmly in keeping with Wells' tradition of excellent, prolific, and understated indie pop. While not quite as stunning as 2006's Euridice Proudhon or the more recent Her vs. the Sad Cold Eventually, Environ Maiden makes a strong case for the louder and scrappier side of Wells' recorded output. Perhaps the most striking difference between Environ Maiden and its predecessors is its length; Environ Maiden consists of 29 short, fuzzedout and hookfilled songs, and is the only Capstan Shafts albums to clock in at over 35 minutes. And while nothing on the album reeks of filler, this quantity of homespun recordings can be daunting. Thankfully, Wells opens Environ Mainden on its most promising and inviting note; opener \"Right on the Malthus\" is likely the strongest track on the album, and one of Wells' most fully realized songs to date. \"Sincere as a Windchime\" uncannily recreates the acoustic guitar sound from the Guided by Voices fave \"Awful Bliss\" to great effect. And the jaunty \"The Origin of Rain\" touches on a shocking number of hooks in its scant 34 seconds. Other songs require a bit more effort to parse: \"Flip Cup Casualties\" initially comes off as flat and halfassed, but reveals a handful of surprisingly catchy moments on repeat listen. There is a much of muchness to Environ Maiden's sound by the time you get 15 or 20 songs in, but the latter part of the record is not without its gems. \"The Ballad of Kid Butane\", \"The Complete History of Greenland\", and \"Drop Dead Innocuous\", which Wells played in sequence at his first ever live show, make for a particularly actionpacked threeandahalf minutes. Album closer \"Northern Me!\" shows Wells growing substantially as an arranger, and is host to what could be his most expressive vocal performance yet. Lyrically, Environ Maiden continues to establish Wells as one of indie pop's best writers. Across the board, Wells' lyrics are characteristically clever, selfeffacing, morally ambiguous, and slyly suggestive. Opener \"Right on the Malthus\" describes a patch of sky as viewed over a girl's shoulder: \"The natural place for the sky to rest/ Is her left shoulder just above the breast/ And below her earlobe that insists on being chewed/ By someone who never should've got their teeth into you.\" The line between clever romantic observation and simpering romantic cliché is a fine one, and Wells continues to navigate it masterfully, approaching his subjects with wit and insight but never sabotaging himself with sarcasm or ironic distance. At first, I was disappointed that Wells wasn't using Environ Maiden and the wider exposure it seems set to give him as a chance to showcase the best songs in his repertoire, as Guided by Voices had done with Propeller. But therein lies one of the greatest differences between Pollard and Wells; whereas Pollard always sported a \"fuckyouI'mgonnabefamous\" attitude, Wells seems much more interested in the process of recording than in its potential rewards. Indeed, with a solid seven albums under his belt, Wells is forging a stylistic niche that goes far beyond his welldocumented GbV fetish. Whether he sticks with the solo 4track approach or finds a band and a studio, his songs will always sound like Capstan Shafts songs. And, if his output thus far is any indication, they'll always be pretty damned good. "}