{"label":" Audiomatique","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10584/homepage_large.2c6c1694.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Trentemøller","title":"The Trentemøller Chronicles","text":" At a time when no one seems to be making any money in the music business, Anders Trentemøller has learned that diversification is the name of the game. The Danish artist is prolific, releasing more than a dozen 12\" singles and two fulllengths in only four years. His list of remixes, including work for the Knife, Röyksopp, and Moby, is even more extensive. Performing both solo and with an expanded liveplusDJ setup, he tours tirelessly: His current schedule has him hitting 16 cities, including Toronto, Rejkavik, Bologna, Copenhagen, Athens, and Sydney, in under two months. Just as importantly, he's learned to adapt his music to suit different markets or, if that sounds crass, to different modes of listening. Where his singles, remixes, and live act aim squarely at the dance floor, his debut LP, last year's The Last Resort, was designed to appeal to CD buyers looking for cozy homelistening. Trentemøller has also learned the art of repackaging: The Last Resort was initially released in a special 2xCD edition featuring a selection of previously vinylonly singles. The Trentemøller Chronicles attempts something similar. On disc one, Trentemøller has chosen a selection of personal favorites from his own back catalogue, including one commissioned remix (of Klovn's \"McKlaren\"), one \"live\" version, and two unreleased cuts. (The disc is allegedly mixed by Trentemøller, but as review copies featured only truncated versions of the songs, nominally blended together, I can't attest to the sophistication of the mix itself.) Disc two, dedicated to Trentemøller's commissioned work, features 11 of his remixes, including reworks of the aforementioned artists plus Sharon Phillips, Tomboy and others. That's a lot of Trentemøller. Fortunately, there's a lot to like here, beginning with disc one's \"The Forest\". Originally released in 2004, on his only single for the Out of Orbit label, it's a brooding, midtempo wash of carefully manipulated keys, strings, and drums, with an irresistible vocal hook bubbling up periodically. Another highlight is Trentemøller's own remix of his \"Moan\", featuring the vocalist Ane Trolle and infinitely better than the versions released on The Last Resort. Where those cuts sagged under layer upon soggy layer of keys and reverb, this one is springloaded and nimble; Trolle's smoky voice only manages to sound sexier when it steps out from behind the previous versions' impenetrable scrim. And the entire second half of the first disc showcases Trentemøller at his moody, minimal best, running through the singles \"Kink\", \"Gush\", \"Physical Fraction\", \"Killer Kat\", and \"Rykketid\" each a study in muted electrohouse economy. But there's also plenty to well, if not actively dislike, simply forget. Just as The Last Resort felt overstuffed as it began wandering into tonepoem territory, so does this disc. The weightless \"Klodsmajor\" is pretty but thin, evaporating on impact. The echosoaked \"McKlaren\" is just as lightbodied, despite its bassy footprint. \"Snowflake\" drifts from an inconsequential ambient swirl into an incongruous drum'n'bass cadence. And the dirgey \"Blood in the Streets\" sounds like a pastiche of the Cure's Seventeen Seconds without the actual angst. All the tics that made early gothic music compelling the yelps, the wrong notes, the sense of an emotion that couldn't be contained by the music are either absent or smoothed into a form that ultimately rings hollow. Skip back to opening cut \"The Forest\", and one wishes that Trentemøller could rediscover the simplicity that made his early productions so compelling. The disc of remixes is a similarly mixed bag. When he's on, Trentemøller is on: His reworks of Röyksopp (fronted by the Knife's Karin Dreijer), the Knife, Mathias Schaffhäuser, and Moby all show the Danish producer at his muscular best, doling out generous hooks and carving beats so chunky they're all but unparalleled in electrohouse for sheer bodymoving functionalism. Where there are vocals, his fidelity to the original is striking; one wonders, in fact, if this respect for the original artist's vision is in part what puts him in the front of so many A&R folks' Rolodexes. Unfortunately, the same fidelity works against him when the source material is lacking. He makes the Blacksmoke Organisation's cutrate New Order sound like cutrate New Order with an electrohouse beat. On Filur's \"You and I\", he parts the curtains on a lovely Basic Channelstyled dub underpinning only to put the vocalist's poor Kylie imitation at center stage. Trentemøller's ear for detail is impressive. There's a moment, two minutes and 16 seconds into \"The Forest\", in which the music a liquid swell of dubby chords and that playfulyetmelancholic vocal arpeggio suddenly stops. For a split second there's just silence, but for a lone vibration that hangs ringing in the void. When the music comes rushing back in, everything feels different, fundamentally altered by its brush with nothingness. Faced with the glut that is The Trentemøller Chronicles, one can't help but think that the story would be far more interesting if Trentemøller could find more of those pockets of stillness in his work. With his attempts to fit his music for so many different venues, Trentemøller begins to look like he's spreading himself a little thin. There's no need, then, to lay it on so thick at the same time. "}