{"label":" Oxford American / CMT","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10590/homepage_large.421b82f5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Oxford American Music Issue 2007","text":"  Don't think of the Oxford American Music Issue 2007 as a magazine with a free CD. Instead, think of it as an inexpensive CD with really long liner notes. For more than a decade, the magazine has devoted a full issue each year to exploring the darker corners of Southern music, drawing in a phalanx of writers including three from the Pitchfork stable this year to help determine a tracklist of old and contemporary obscurities. Representing a range of knowledge that is cumulatively broad but personally deep, the Music Issue covers a wide swathe of time, with songs ranging from the earliest days of recorded sound (the oldest on the new CD is Don Redman's \"That Blue Eyed Baby from Memphis\", from 1932) to the latest releases (the most recent, the Hackensaw Boys' \"Look Out Dog, Slow Down Train\", was released in June 2007). Nor are there any stylistic limitations: The Music Issue 2007 doesn't cover rock, bluegrass, folk, blues, country, jazz, soul, hiphop, or pop so much as it covers what lies between these genres, celebrating music that, like a backyard shed, is built from whatever materials are lying around. According to the Oxford American, the South is a place where strict musical categorizations are continually breaking down, subverted by musicians with little classical training but tons of creativity. On the new CD, Sandy Posey's \"I Take It Back\" (from 1967) begins as a girlgroup breakup anthem in which a woman tells her man she doesn't love him anymore, but as she sees his teary reaction and changes her mind, the songs shifts into a cosmopolitan country ballad in the Owen Bradley style. It's not the trick of it, but the naturalness and even gracefulness of the change that makes the song so powerful the genre shift reflecting the singer's stark emotional realizations, which music journalist Steve Klinge explores in his essay. Each year, the good songs always outweigh the bad, and the discoveries compensate for the glaring omissions. For instance, the Music Issue has never included any hiphop or, for the most part, even acknowledged the existence of strong, distinctive scenes in Atlanta, Memphis, and New Orleans. Fortunately, this year's issue finally addresses one of the dominant vernacular musical styles in the South with the series' firstever hiphop track, \"Cadillac on 22s\", a bluesrap from David Banner's 2003 LP, Mississippi: The Album. It's a stunning choice: The track is a soulful expression of selfdoubt and religious crisis, as Banner, barking staccato yeahs like Bobby \"Blue\" Bland, talks frankly to God over a folksy guitar sample and a homemade beat.  In a masterstroke of sequencing, \"Cadillac on 22s\" is followed by Fred Neil's \"Little Bit of Rain\", which not only highlights the songs' surprising sonic similarities but also signals that Music Issue 2007 is a more adventurous compilation than recent issues, relying on more obscure choices as well as fewer tracks by established artists. Instead of another Dolly Parton song (bless her heart), we get Iris DeMent's translucent \"Sweet Is the Melody\" (1994) and Okie Karen Dalton's weathered \"Katie Cruel\" (1971). There's a Dwight Yoakam track, sure, but also one from Amy LaVere's new album. And there are several potentially divisive, love'emorhate'em songs like Van Dyke Parks' drolly symphonic \"GMan Hoover\" (1972), Betty Davis' scowling sex ode \"Anti Love Song\" (1973), and Daniel Johnston's skewed valedictory \"Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Your Grievances\" (1983).  If a theme can be divined from the Music Issue 2007 liner notes, it's the idea of music's ability to repulse as surely as it attracts, and numerous contributors pick up on this theme, expressing their unsettling reactions to the music they write about. Writer Ben Greenman can't stand \"If I Were a Carpenter\" until he hears New Orleans singer Eldridge Holmes sing it; John Uhl works hard to reconcile his love of Reverend Charlie Jackson's gritty gospel blues with the singer/sinner's depiction of faith as sacrificial. Even Pitchfork staffer William Bowers, in setting out seven steps to enjoying Mayo Thompson's solo album Corky's Debt to His Father, presumes readers and listeners will recoil from the singer's unusual vocals and frank depictions of sexual insecurity, not to mention the author's depiction of the same. These writers look beyond the music's unsavory aspects disagreeable political or religious statements, purposeful inaccessibility and connect nevertheless. Ironically, this act of acceptance makes Music Issue 2007 one of the magazine's best and most consistent compilations to date, one that can play as its own compelling album rather than as a series of potentially skippable tracks.  [The magazine with this CD is available from the Oxford American website.]  "}