{"label":" Reprise","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10592/homepage_large.72816f2a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Neil Young","title":"Chrome Dreams II","text":"  The original Chrome Dreams contained some of Neil Young's most enduring electric blowouts and most somber, stirring folkrock. That is, it would have, had it ever come out. Scrapped in 1977, Chrome Dreams has earned a place alongside Smile and Lifehouse in the Pantheon of Lost Albums, a puzzle for obsessive fans and bootleggers to try and reconstruct. Fortunately, the record was thoroughly stripped for parts, and among its 12 songs, classics \"Like a Hurricane\" and \"Pocahontas\" popped up on other Young albums. So now, 30 years later, Young has decided his new album is a sequel to that career enigma, referencing a chapter only his most dedicated fans would know about. Why? The fuck if I know. Part of Young's charm and continued credibility is that he's grown more inscrutable as his hair has grayed, the opposite trajectory of most of his Rock Hall of Fame peers. After his brush with death in 2005, one might have expected the singersongwriter to slow down, or at least write a bunch of grim songs about mortality this is, after all, the guy who was singing about getting old when he was 24. But instead, Young has sped up his work rate and zagged at every opportunity, quickfire releasing the ambitious Nashville throwback Prairie Wind and the hurried, furious Living With War.Chrome Dreams II is less conceptually consistent than those two records; the family resemblance to its predecessor may simply be a matter of their shared scattershot approach. Indulging a grabbag of styles and dusting off some longshelved unreleased tracks, the record veers from Hallmarkcard country to litesoul throwbacks to Rust Never Sleepslike garage rock. This variety might be distracting, were Young not so firmly loyal to the overarching production sound and band collaborators he's kept over the last ten years, with only his recent fondness for choral backing vocals doing much to distinguish it from his earlier work.  Strange then that the album's centerpiece, the 18minute novella \"Ordinary People\", was actually recorded during Young's notorious 1980s identity disorder; it's a holdover from his 1988 r&b dalliance This Note's for You. Obviously, a song with a runtime that impressive necessitates the use of terms like \"sprawling\" and \"epic,\" and it is pretty impressive, its 20 verses providing a stack of snapshots of life for drug dealers, assembly line workers, and the homeless between zealous horn and guitar solos. It aims to be the Band's \"The Weight\", and while it doesn't quite reach those lofty heights, it's a solid workingclass anthem, despite the staleness of references to Lee Iacocca and boxing as an important cultural event.  In the shadow of \"Ordinary People\", the rest of Chrome Dreams II sounds a bit wispy particularly the surprisingly adultcontempo, oversentimental \"Beautiful Bluebird\" and \"Shining Light\". The faux Motown of \"The Believer\" is a little bit better, but somewhat reminiscent of 2002's Are You Passionate?, an uncomfortable lowlight of lateperiod Neil. Matched up against the raw, solemn acoustic classics \"Will to Love\", \"Star of Bethlehem\" of the original Chrome, it's telling how far Neil's ability to sculpt his quieter material into something haunting rather than hokey has faded with age.  But the electric numbers, both the compact \"Spirit Road\" and the extended kneebend workout of \"No Hidden Path\", still ripple with vitality, even though they feature only onethird of Crazy Horse. Neither match the furious beauty of \"Like a Hurricane\", and \"Dirty Old Man\" might be a pale imitation of the raucous \"Sedan Delivery,\" but it's still thrilling to hear Young getting his aggression out, letting the undiminished fury of his guitar tone saw off the shackles of age.  Whether the album title is Young seriously trying to reconnect to a specific moment of his past or perhaps simply making an inside joke, it's an apt demonstration that he can still shapeshift with the best of them. But while Neil Young's selffractionation abilities are intact, the low hit to miss ratio of Chrome Dreams II is proof that not all of those personae are still quite as functional as they once were, around the time of Chapter One. Though having one good trick in the bag keeps him from becoming a mere oldies jukebox like so many other 40year rock vets, the sampler platter of Chrome Dreams II suggests his renowned versatility, by comparison to its cultclassic ancestor, ain't what it used to be.  "}