{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10610/homepage_large.17e51d00.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Celebration","title":"The Modern Tribe","text":"  Celebration is the latest band featuring Katrina Ford and Sean Antanaitis a duo who've also coled Jaks, Love Life, and Birdland and this group, rounded out by drummer David Bergander, is their most refined and controlled yet. That's not to say the music is restrained or simple (it's neither), but it is sophisticated and wears its eccentricities naturally. This is the second Celebration album, and it's a mellower affair than the first, spacing out the blasts of tweaked progpunk with a clutch of slower songs. This slightly more sedate approach means that Ford's vocals are less crazed than before, though she still gets her tics in. If anything, her amazing skill as a singer is more noticeable here than ever before, because she's so controlled most of the time, using her range of bizarre vocal tricks for accent or effect. She has a voice deep enough to confuse your impression of her gender, but also hits some terrifying high notes, most notably on \"Fly the Fly\", where she completes a crescendo with a piercing, precisely controlled wail, leaving the listener to contend with the album's best guitar part and a locomotive beat. Actually, it'd be nice if her voice were given more space to roam in the mix. This is an album with virtually no silence, and there always seems to be an organ filling in a spot that could have been emphasized with a wellconsidered lack of noise. The trio is augmented by Nick Zinner of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs and all of TV on the Radio, whose David Sitek is back in the producer's chair. That makes sense: Celebration is what it might sound like if those two bands merged.  It's questionable whether much of the extra sound on the record was necessary, because the album's constant fullness makes it harder to latch onto its best moments. It can also obscure Bergander's fantastic drum work, which shies away from conventional rock beats in favor of crazyarmed patterns that drive even the slowest tracks. The best songs overcome the excess with kinetic energy and memorable arrangements, such as \"Hands Off My Gold\", which makes good use of a thrusting sax, slotting it into an electronic, tribal beat. Tunde Adebimpe provides creepy backing vocals that poke above the everpresent organ.  As much as I've tried to listen to the lyrics, they tend to fly right by without really sticking, as I find myself alternately too wrapped up in the actual sound of Ford's singing and the often distracting fullness of the arrangements. At its best that is, when it focuses on highvelocity postpunk, such as on \"Pony\" and \"In This Land\" this is an addictively weird and convulsively captivating record. At its worst, as on the slogging, dirgelike \"Tame the Savage\", it's unmemorable and overstuffed. It's now up to the group to locate a balance between the musical dynamics they've mastered and the sonic dynamics that still elude them.  "}