{"label":" Dead Oceans","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10615/homepage_large.7dc83a3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Phosphorescent","title":"Pride","text":"  Matthew Houck’s adoring fans occasionally find themselves conscripted into strawsheriff roles, bound to struggle against the mob justice of Inspector Bloggit followers who'd charge him with petty theft just because he seems aesthetically connectable to other dignitaries within his cosmic artfolk / mystic altcountry / slowcoregospel idiom. The Neutral Milk Hotel comparisons that his work used to attract were inexplicable to this typist's ears wtf, because he also lived in Athens? And yes, now that he claims Brooklyn, one can detect in three songs a flirtation with those postAnimal Collective poles of, y'know, elliptical ethereality and raucous tribalism in his approach to song structure and performance. Sure, a few acts do consciously cannibalize others' textures, but we hypemachinists too frequently commit the fallacy of assuming that soundalikeness equals influence or translates as aping. Try this at home: Play a guitar and sing, and odds are, now that so many of our psyches are plumb awash in multiplicities of bands, you're going to innocently/organically \"sound like\" somebody else, unless you're, I don't know, David Thomas Broughton. If in the past Phosphorescent's work contained moments that could be received as echoing Sparklehorse, Tindersticks, Clem Snide, Low, downbeat Flaming Lips, the Pacificpastoral K Records stable, and the JoeHenrycurated Jesus' Son soundtrack's commingling of soul, spirituals, oldies, and fauxldies, well, good for humanity. But the Will Oldham thing: yeah. And Pride continues that tradition on all fronts. First, the cover photo is difficult not to perceive as an homage to Oldham's Days in the Wake, itself a Jandek homage. And the lion theme, even if it's based on Houck's hairencircled face: consult Oldham's \"The Lion Lair\" (since citing the Sage Francis teamup \"Sea Lion\" would be rash). The yelping, howling, abstract title track: consult Oldham's \"Come a Little Dog\" from Days in the Wake, no less. Speaking of canines, this album's \"Wolves\": consult Oldham's \"Wolf Among Wolves\" and Superwolf. Houck's voice warbles exactly like midcareer Oldham, one of his old songs even used a Days in the Wake song title (\"All Is Grace\") as a lyric, both performers abuse further animal metaphors, both frame songs as prayers, both feature lackadaisicalvergingoncatatonic overdubs, and both include female singing as fleshout fodder. Most damningly, Pride was preceded (and upstaged) by a kickass Daytrotter session featuring arrangements and production that strike me as aiming for the throat of Oldham's greatest 4song EP, the Kramerhelmed The Mountain the two closing songs of which Houck already mimicked in terms of lyrics and inflection on his last fulllength's \"South (of America).\"  The above paragraph: FOOLED YOU! Could have kept going, too, through more Phosphorescentdiscography lyrical and vocal similarities with Lost Blues and Western Songs, even milking the strangely touching syllabic nonsense of Houck's Aw Come Aw Wry and Oldham's All Most Heaven, but this \"review\" would have then topped 2,000 words. I also could have faked an equally dubious/convincing chunk about Iron and Wine, down to the hirsuteness, biblical dabblage, EP supremacy, and the titles of Beam compositions such as \"Lion's Mane\" or the new album's, um, \"Wolves.\" My point: I don't put much stock in Jungian collectivity, but nobody gets to monopolize this archetypal shit. Oldham and Beam were both called copycats of their ancestors when they dawned, and 'tis time to afford Houck the respect that their work has since earned. OMFG all three of 'em use the same chord progressions AND mention the (planetdominating) ocean a lot! OMFG, I think I hear traces of Pride's awesome guestlist in Phosphorescent's music, too! That'd include Nat Baldwin, Annie Palmer, Jana Hunter, Liz Durrett, Dirty Projectors, and Castanets in the conspiracy!  So: stunning, standalone album. Except that the reportedly highschoolmarchingbandinspired version of \"A Death, A Proclamation\" here while more interesting than anything recently by, say, Will Oldham doesn't hit the heights of the wailed, pianosoloassisted Daytrotter arrangement. Same goes for \"Cocaine Lights\", despite its being a fine comedown unanthem on par with classics by Kris Kristofferson or Neil Young, every chronicled gesture precise (the \"blood clicking\" and facecovering) and every phrase beautiful (the partnerinaslip and the \"showy amen\"). Pride romanticizes the burden of touring (\"Even in these dirty clubs counting 123\"), but: Live in concert, Houck just dwindles and stumbles. Over multiple shows, I've only seen him confident once, when right in front of the stage, I redneckfully started a shoving match with a former bosom chum turned consummately annoying townie who insisted on yammering loudly to someone gullible enough to suffer him and who made fun of my investment in the show after asking him to be quiet or move back five fucking times. Houck put his hand on my head like a guru, and to an even less worthy arrangement of a requested \"Cocaine Lights\", smirked and repeatedly crooned, \"Where is the love?\"  The love is in Pride's lyrics, which escape the shackles of their occasional poetic flourishes to be unmysterious and selfexplanatory, totally broken and totally vulnerable, and therefore unique. The speakers' partners are pretty much anchors, and the crack in Houck's voice: a mournful yodel. These voices would have us believe that they mean to repair the relationships they're in: \"Tell me where you've been and I will tell you where I've been/ It will all be okay.\" But seductive statements of faith in resurrection are eventually outweighed by aftermathodes; these speakers prefer loss. The listener gets the sense that they don't even miss a singular individual but a composite of squandered loves, Frankenmates formed in minds that crave impossible partners, even while retroactively full of promise: \"O love, the one day I tarried too far and I never came home/ O love, I always carried your heart married deep in my own.\" And even the internet doesn't have room for me to gush over the BeachBoyhaunted, vocaldrone stuff.  "}