{"label":" Big Dada","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10613/homepage_large.e4617ed0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Well Deep: Ten Years of Big Dada Recordings","text":" It might be going a bit too far to claim that Big Dada has an identity crisis, but as independent labels go, you can't entirely pin a single style to them. \"Underground rap\" is about as close as you can get, and even then, that's a nebulous term; it could cover anyone from avantgarde abstractionists to clubfriendly grime offshoots. But there doesn't entirely seem to be such a thing as a readily identifiable Big Dada sound, and given how split the roster tends to be in another, equally important sense the geographic one, between the U.S. and the UK it almost makes the whole idea of a label compendium seem kind of disorienting. Well Deep: Ten Years of Big Dada Recordings attempts to reconcile those contradictions in the guise of an anniversary collection, which, at the very least, means you're almost guaranteed to love and detest some of the selections here equally. Being a Londonbased label does dictate a certain side of Big Dada's identity a bit, and it's no coincidence that the more accessible artists on the label tend to be British. There's Roots Manuva, whose wellaging dancehallinflected 2001 hit \"Witness (1 Hope)\" still sounds like the label's (and pregrime UK rap's) standardbearer, benefiting from his sharplyspit patois and featuring one of the sickest assaults of subwooferabusing lowend in the last ten years embedded in that wobbly bassline. (Unfortunately, 1999's moody, triphopstyled \"Movements\" and 2005's balloonsqueak annoyance \"Colossal Insight\" don't represent him quite as well.) Ty gets four cuts here, and between his forceful smoothness and the digitally sleek futureneosoul bent to the productions on his tracks, he sounds a bit like a technologicallyadvanced UK Okayplayer envoy. And even though Well Deep exhibits Big Dada's tendency to pass over straightup grime in favor of borderline, classificationducking groups like New Flesh and Lotek HiFi, their release of Wiley's Playtime is Over earlier this year gives them a chance to showcase one of the genre's pivotal artists; as familiar as \"50/50\" might be to fans already, the inclusion of Xxxchange's twitchy synthsymphonic remix of \"My Mistakes\" is a good move. But while Big Dada tends to play towards approachable futurist boom bap on the British side (and the French side; TTC are slick and hooky on the 8bit throb of \"Dans Le Club\"), the American groups represented here are both further out there and more sonically diverse. Many tracks lean towards the backpacker side of things: there's the brilliant smartassery of poet Mike Ladd, who delivers a couple acts of cultural sabotage for his defendersofrap concept group the Infesticons (the Company Flowassisted \"Night Night Theme\" and Saul Williams' anxious turn on \"Monkey Theme\"), anticon pseudosupergroup cLOUDDEAD bring their nasal, unnerving brand of slowmotion decay rap (\"Physics of a Bicycle\" and the Boards of Canada remix of \"Dead Dogs Two\"), and Busdriver waxes logorrheic on the thrashpaced bopjazz breakup rant \"Beauty Supply & Demand\" and the manic halfsequitirs of the folkhop \"Unemployed Black Astronaut\". On the other end of the spectrum is the hipsterbyproxy clubrap contingent, represented by Spank Rock (\"Sweet Talk\") and Diplo (\"Diplo Rhythm\"'s Metroid dancehall and the unremarkable, previouslyunreleased circa04 drumbeatchopfest \"Now's the Time\"). Hearing these two divergent musical movements in such close proximity is strange enough; it's even weirder when you pit the winking throwyahandsup comeons of \"Sweet Talk\" against \"Fader Party\", a Laddproduced fastrap mockery credited to the Infesticonopposing poprap caricature Majesticons. Amidst all that, MF DOOM sideproject King Geedorah's tradunderground \"AntiMatter\" sounds like it stumbled into the wrong party. For all its stylistic multiple personality disorder, Well Deep does cover its uneven ground pretty well, and you have to give the comp a bit of credit for openmindedness (and a demerit for coherence) when it opts against splitting the two CDs up by style, region or chronology. If Well Deep proves anything, it's that Big Dada does have a singleminded purpose: to prevent underground hip hop from moving anywhere but forward, a restless undertaking that, while not necessarily ignorant of rap's past, just doesn't seem to have a lot of inclination to reference it. If that makes the future look more splintered and baffling than it could be otherwise, that just means they're one step ahead of the rest of us. "}