{"label":" BlueSanct","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1075/homepage_large.4fd09591.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Black Forest/Black Sea","title":"Forcefields and Constellations","text":" Kathy Acker wrote, \"At night in every city I live in I walk down the streets to look for something that will mean something to me.\" At times, you can locate an inevitability by staying in one spot. To aid in the quest, Black Forest/Black Sea are making music for the roof and fire escape, helping you detail your view of the neighbor's tacky kitchen and your own obstructed portion of any already obstructed sky.Forcefields and Constellations, the Rhode Island duo's second dose of interstellar gazing, sets adrift with the dreamy \"Orion\", a milky moondrop instrumental featuring the guitarwork of guest performer Christina Carter (Charalambides). Here, Carter's guitar lobs tremolo darts at the nighttime, too busy to notice the melancholic swarm of voices that flit around her. Despite lasting under four minutes, the song creates an air of languid eternity. This protracted time/space collusion is a constant on Jeffrey Alexander and Miriam Goldberg's followup to last year's eponymous (and now outofprint) debut as Black Forest/Black Sea, and by patiently dismantling the chamberfolk that made that record such a treat, they've initiated a whirlybird gale that blows compositional constraints wide open. Chilly abstraction is an assured move for a sophomore record, but Alexander and Goldberg are seasoned psychfolk players: Alongside lyricist and multiinstrumentalist Carin Wagner, Alexander comprised the slowcore renaissance duo The Iditarod. Goldberg, though not a core member of that band, toured with them, and contributed cello, piano, and guitar to a number of their studio recordings. Packing this pedigree and collaborative dynamic into 13 tracks, Forcefields and Constellations creates a steely, diaphanous and fragile mass of delicate and complex instrumentation. Using voice sparingly, the focus falls on improvisation (or at least, something that sounds like improvisation). The duo also employs guest musicians including the aforementioned, freakedout guitarwork of Christina Carter, and bouzouki from Jewelled Antler impresario Glenn Donaldson and samples the work of drone artists Fürsaxa, as well as Black Forest/Black Sea's own past performances, which turns this album into something of a largescale, opendoor collaboration. As with most successful recordings in this genre, it might seem dodgy to remove individual tracks from their context within the album after all, the shifts in gradation are half the fun but here, it makes sense, because a few numbers do stand out. \"...with a dead man I've never met\" is, like the album's opener, a heady instrumental featuring modulated cello and plucked banjo. But where \"Orion\" coasts on a gentle wave, this track takes a darker turn halfway through, becoming a churning noise squall (though it does retain the banjo's soft undertow). \"These Things\" follows a less dramatic pace: Goldberg's wonderfully raw and ethereal voice backed by tone delays, ringing chimes, and buzzing flourishes creates a lofi, 4ADesque transition into the reverberations of \"Kyy Plays Perpetual Change\", which swings along a snippet of Finnish psychrocker Kemialliset Ystävät's song, \"Lammikko\", evoking a dewy forest populated by tiny glitches and sine waves. Violin, staccato cello, a malfunctioning player piano, and distorted bells drive \"Hung Far Lowish\", with strings keeping pace beneath. It ends with a drizzle of moody machines, a lone green kite amid the subtle deterioration of weather. Per psych's prescription, Forcefields and Constellations signs off with an even lengthier freakout, \"Jamestown\", which serves as a slowbuilt runthrough of the band's strengths: Here, notes climb and shake and sustain themselves admirably, and Carter returns to add layers to the song's drift. Discordant air pockets and dyadic tone rings appear on occasion, but throughout its nineminute run, the piece never commits to any one direction, ultimately flitting away as unprocessed as it arrived. Black Forest/Black Sea take their time telling a story, and they avoid definitive conclusions; rather, this album's strengths lie in its fragmented, molasses trajectory and overall expansiveness. But there's much more here for patient listeners those who allow the connections to emerge or build tiny bridges themselves. If you're into songbased atmospherics and fractured folk, Forcefields and Constellations should prove a gratifying jigsaw. Just sit still a while. "}