{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10628/homepage_large.55d95322.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Castanets","title":"In the Vines","text":" Broadly defined, In the Vines is an indiefolk record. Indiefolk is a crowded genre, perhaps because of its accessibility a decent, appropriately weathered voice and a cheap acoustic guitar are all you really need to get started. The combination is so timeless that you can get by while skimping on songwriting bonafides and originality. Overachievers like Iron & Wine, Richard Buckner, and Smog wreck the grade curve, but say this for the second tier: Even the blandest autumnal fingerpicking makes for a comforting, offhandedly pleasant atmosphere. Ray Raposa's gothic Americana resides in an indistinct region between the standout stars and inoffensive alsorans of his genre. He's not a Bill Callahancaliber lyricist, although he has his moments: \"So it's going to be sad and it's going to be long,\" he sings against the slinky, sinister riff of \"Rain Will Come\", \"and we already know the end of this song.\" The lyric bundles up Raposa's definitive traits the reedy, hardedged voice spitting terse omens; the obsession with death and departure and inevitability while sounding alluringly creepy in a veil of reverb. But if In the Vines isn't a record that impresses at the level of individual songs, neither is it something you throw on in the background and forget about. Try, and you'll be emphatically reminded: About halfway through the previously sparse \"Rain Will Come\", terrible peals of noise rip through the track and don't relent until it ends, as if the troubadour has wandered into a metal shop. The essential sameyness of these loose, creeping country and blues tunes makes them negligible as units. This is an album's album, magnetic over the long haul, as Raposa's careful, nuanced tension between placidity and chaos accrues force. The songs tend to be anchored by percussively struck strings and Raposa's eventempered, stealthy singing, but they're filled out to roilingthunderhead proportions with soulnoir brass, Ebowed drones, boozy slide guitar, damaged blues licks, stilted mechanical percussion, and corroded freejazz mutations. Careful songwriting touches abound: On \"Sounded Like a Train, Wasn't a Train\", an inexorable deathmarch, his voice bleeds into an echo effect that loops and fades, and the gottaleavethistown dirge \"The Night Is When You Can Not See\" is enlivened by trills of barrelhouse piano. Booming, vaguely ceremonial drums spruces up \"Strong Animal\", which employs an obscurely troubling womanasbeast metaphor remindful of Smog's \"I Break Horses\". Between the compassless drones and convulsive rackets are plenty of respites, sometimes whole songs of them: \"This is the Early Game\" is a weary trail song with languid brushed percussion, and \"Westbound, Blue\" is tradfriendly blues about longing for the country from the confines of the city. The strongest sense that attends Castanets' music is of stasis the arrangements are plodding and often inert, and they vary only in their finest details from song to song or album to album. This stasis dovetails perfectly with Raposa's lyrics, where departure, not destination, is always the point, yet always unattainable. "}