{"label":" Kranky / Marriage","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10629/homepage_large.e031accf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"White Rainbow","title":"Prism of the Eternal Now","text":"  Adam Forkner, 31 years old, of Portland, Ore., shares his hometown's penchant for multiple aliases and solo work: stints as a Dirty Projector and a JackieO Motherfucker, founder of Yume Bitsu and Surface of Eceyon and World, solo as [[VVRSSNN]] and Soft Dolphin and Adam Forkner and White Rainbow. Forkner has the individualistic streak that endures in the area, handed down from the pioneers who settled the Pacific Northwest and whose descendants are his peers. Today, they work sidebyside but almost always separately, and rarely under their own names, posing as the Blow, Panther, YACHT, E*Rock, Silentist, Strategy, etc. Not surprising, for someone who grew up so deeply in thrall to Portland's simultaneously DIY and new age ethos, is Forkner's nearobsession with cults: Dr. Bronner's Moral ABCs, Unarius' Universal Articulate Interdimensional Understanding of Science, Scientology, Rastafarianism, Mormonism, and Father Yod's Source family and its belief in the Eternal Now, the last of which gave Forkner his album title. Forkner's confessed fascination with the cult surely had a hand in the \"White Rainbow FullSpectrum Vibrational Healing Center\", an occasional museum piece and traveling installation involving video, lights, a canopy and several hours worth of live improv. Forker called it an opportunity to \"be able to explore sound with people,\" and to join with them as they come and go. Forkner, by his own account, has always been a bit terrified of impinging any further on anyone else, and now explains his time in his other bands as a way of mediating his own subjectivity writing songs to achieve a degree of removal. White Rainbow, however, signals a change. As he told The Fader, \"it was a mistake to think that people wouldn't want the straight tryyp.\" Prism of the Eternal Now, goes the idea, is all Forkner.  The Portland laptop posse not just White Rainbow has long agonized over how to bring their goods to market, a sentiment expressed best by Panther's Charlie SalasHumara when he told the Portland Mercury that \"Panther is primarily about the performance. I'm proud of the music, most definitely, but it's a release for me.\" Figuring out how to translate their communal yet independent style on record has been a local burden, one that perhaps explains the fact that the city has yet to produce a really fantastic solo studio album (the Blow being the exception that proves the rule, more so since the band's most cherished output was the result of a collaboration between Khaela Maricich and YACHT's Jona Bechtolt). Prism of the Eternal Now is the fifth White Rainbow release since 2005, and the third this year a quickening pace audible in new songs like \"Middle\", which sound almost metronomic, ticking like a clock yet to be invented. Belying Forkner's tendency to pose for publicity photographs in Grateful Dead tshirts and loose white yoga outfits and to muse at length about \"The Now\" are his songs themselves, which are neither baggy nor ungrounded. White Rainbow's debts are to Terry Riley, to whom he dedicates a song, \"For Terry\", and to Brian Eno, whose Oblique Strategy cards he consults, rather than to, say, Spiritualized. As someone who works at length with loops and other static elements, Forkner's too focused to scramble anybody's mind, including his own.  Best are his sober psychedelics: the hissy jungle navigations of \"Warm Clicked Fruit\", the early Pink Floyd planetary spacing of \"For Terry\", and the Beaches and Canyons gurgling of \"Big Drop\". True to his own word, Forkner's attempts to jam to write songs stiffen up what's otherwise just the right degree of pliant. The rounding bongos on \"Pulses\" and \"Mystic Prism\" were better left at the fairground; the mechanical reproductions that circle through \"Middle\" could better haunt the harddrive they were eventually taped off of.  Forkner's best instincts as an artist are to do no harm to lay it out openended, to imply, even encourage a kind of allencompassing unity without being too pushy about it. In this, his work faces the same cult dilemma with which he is obsessed, and about which he once wrote: \"What fascinates me in all of this has always been the perpetual dialectic between enlightened spiritual purity and alltoohuman melodrama.\"  "}