{"label":" Traffic Entertainment","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10636/homepage_large.637581ef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Camp Lo","title":"Black Hollywood","text":"  Camp Lo were underrated even when 1996's \"Luchini AKA This Is It\" put them in the position to be rated at all, but that has to be far preferable to any station they've held since. Over the past decade, they've been faded by endless label woes, commercial indifference, and a special kind of bad luck that had them catching shit for doing guest spots on both Big Willie Style and Bazooka Tooth. And now, five years after Let's Do It Again proved as memorable as a piss at 3 a.m., Black Hollywood is being released on an imprint I've never heard of, and I've seen sales on Lean Cuisines at my local supermarket that got better promotion. If they had an Industry Shakedown or Hell Hath No Fury in them, it probably wouldn't be enjoyable, but it would certainly be understandable. But you don't get to call yourself Sonny Cheeba and Geechi Suede if you can't play it cool, and Black Hollywood is almost every bit as frozen in time as the duo's 1997 record Uptown Saturday Night. Not only have they conveniently forgotten or ignored everything that's happened from 19972007, they still act like the two decades before that never happened, either. Nostalgia fucks up more rap careers than incarceration, but rather than lament a time when the art form was realer, Camp Lo appeal to anyone who could tell Clyde Frazier was the shit just by looking at a picture of him. More than telling stories or doling out punchlines, Cheeba and Suede stack images and loaded code words, leaving much to the imagination by setting scenes of topshelf liquor, potent marijuana, and women who dress like they're on location at an OutKast video shoot. Yeah, much of it doesn't make a whole lot of literal sense, but at their finest, they reach a Ghostfacelevel of opulence; after slacking in patois, Chiba pulls his voice taut on the selfexplanatory \"Ganja Lounge\": \"Fingered they Virgin Islands 'til their walls Niagara Falls/ Martini Rossi body waters...fornicated with Nazi bitches/ Liquorated chocolate.\" Despite being tagged as the official followup to the wellreceived Fort Apache (The Mixtape Album), there isn't a whole lot albumy about Black Hollywood. Most tracks clock in at less than three minutes, forgoing typical bars and hooks structure for livedin interplay and stuttered catch phrases. The entirety is produced by Ski Beatz, who goes beyond his current rep as a JayZ namedrop with the speakerrattling \"Posse From The Bronx\" and \"82 Afros\", which appears revamped with nasty fuzz bass and bongos. While they occasionally recall the brassy triumph of Uptown on \"Soul Fever\" or the title track, the seams do show a little when they try to turn budget limitation into oldschool homages; ironically, the beat on \"Money Clap\" sounds like two dimes clicking together.  Considering the great lengths Lo go to create an alternate reality, they put themselves at great risk any time they step out of it. \"Jack N' Jill\" doesn't exactly moralize, but like its thematic forerunner \"Life In The Fast Lane\", it suffers from having no real investment in its characters. This is an even greater problem with \"Sweet Claudine\", where the duo makes a lastsecond switch of pimp hats for knitted caps and the glutinous, selfsatisfied \"sensitivity\" of Common's Finding Forever.  But really, what Black Hollywood suffers from the most is the razorthin margin for error that comes with having a 36minute LP as the outcome of a sixyear hiatus, which only is a problem if you came into this with expectations. The evidence shows that Camp Lo didn't during the seemingly tossedoff salutations between Cheeba and Suede on \"Posse From The Bronx\", you can practically hear the relief of two people shedding a decade worth of extraneous bullshit and rapping for the funk of it. Even if Camp Lo's house of pleasure isn't as lavishly decorated as it used to be, it's still worth dropping by.  "}