{"label":" Definitive Jux","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10638/homepage_large.96f908bc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Chennault","artist":"Hangar 18","title":"Sweep the Leg","text":" On their sophomore disc, Hangar 18 may be even more inaccessible than their Def Jux labelmates. Aesop is a master at hypnotic word scrambles, while ElP's wall of noize approximates a slap across the face. Both styles grab you by the balls and force you to form an opinion about them. Hangar 18, meanwhile, are content to tap at your shoulder and whisper a million seemingly disconnected words into your ear. And though emcees Alaska and Windbreeze have a knack for forging rhythm at 400 mph, there's nothing to latch onto here, and ultimately Sweep the Leg is banal and mundane, predicated on inoffensive electrolite production and rushed nerd rap flows. To put it simply: the shit is flat. None of which is to imply that there aren't things the group gets right. paWL's production work on the stabbing \"Jump Muthafuh\" approximates the apocafunk of his fellow Def Jukies, while the Reichian drool of \"Sad\" is hypnotically spare, especially when paired with the melancholic, jazzy embellishments that bookend the track. But these tantalizing moments are few and far between, and too often the tracks feel static and underdeveloped. The synth line that snakes through \"WatchYoSelf\" can be transfixing for anyone who spent their childhood buried in electronic games, but the beat is too stiff and symptomatic of the album's underwhelming drum programming. The bouncing electro of \"Bakin Soda\", meanwhile, is punchy without being funky. The best thing that you can say about it is that it's forgettable and generic. The rapping, meanwhile, seems as if it's been incubated in a hermetically sealed nerd rap container. It's clear that, individually, Alaska and Windbreeze are talented, and it's tempting to be impressed by the sheer quantity of lyrics here, but their voices are too smooth, bereft of the gruff crevices or the aching cracks that reveal personality. While their indecipherable doubletime flows are impressive, they're also exhausting. You want them to relax, pull back, and express themselves cleanly and simply. When the subjects of the songs are clear, the themes and ideas are banal. (Check \"Dance With Me\" to see what happens when nerd rappers go to the club.)  In the end, Hangar 18's technical acumen and obvious hunger don't amount to much. Listening is a chore. They simply haven't learned how to wield their power, and the album feels more like an exercise than a work of art.  "}