{"label":" Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10644/homepage_large.ddf7599f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Thrills","title":"Teenager","text":" The Thrills' debut, 2003's So Much for the City, and its followup, 2004's Let's Bottle Bohemia, were both recorded in Los Angeles, reflecting the Dublinbased quintet's fascination with America's Westernmost edge. The pull to the coast is not particularly unusual, nor is it especially complicated: Aside from its massive mythic legacy both inprint and onscreen (see: Raymond Chandler, Playboy, Joan Didion, Robert Evans, The Big Lebowski), there aren't many places in North America more geographically volatile than California (see also: thousands of years of wildfires, mudslides, floods, earthquakes). All that fragility yields a certain kind of romance California has earned its reputation as the golden land, the last haven for fantasists and thrillseekers and the Thrills spent the bulk of their first two records buying into the mythology, alternately anointing Brian Wilson and Gram Parsons, building an oceansoaked, harmonyheavy homage to California's dreamy dreams, shaking ground, and unrelenting sunshine. For Teenager, their third LP, the Thrills abandon Southern California to camp out in slightlylessluminous British Columbia (in the record's press kit, the band explains that their studio The Warehouse, in Vancouver's Gastown district was, in fact, located in \"the worst neighborhood in all of Canada\"). Accordingly, Teenager feels much less geographically inspired than the band's previous work, focusing, instead, on the deep prickles of nostalgia. As its title suggests, Teenager is a record about the awkward, impossible freedom of adolescence; unsurprisingly, most of these songs are written in the past tense, and almost all feature allusions to \"simpler times.\" The album's title track a wispy, plodding dirge, heavy with compunction, swirling guitars, and tiny bits of piano lays it out best: \"I don't care for the past/ But if I could go back/ A teenager again/ If I could go back/ I'd trip over again,\" moans frontman Conor Deasy, voice high, longing, and fragile. More evidence of teenwistfulness piles up: the band follows \"Teenager\" with \"Should've Known Better,\" a clumsy, banjoaddled lament on adulthood (\"I harbor doubts/ I didn't live my youth with sufficient recklessness/ I envy your youth/ Yes, I envy your youth\"). Deasy's lyrics aren't especially revelatory, but it's awfully hard not to relate to the record's basic sentiments, whether you're 19 or 99: It's maudlin and stupid and hopelessly clichéd, but who doesn't occasionally lament the inevitability of aging, whether it's griping over achy joints or wishing it was still OK to makeout with someone in the woods, one hand wrapped around a plastic red cup of warm, underage beer? Nostalgia rules here, and the unhinged glee that comes from being sunsick and cramming too many Red Vines has been traded for more melancholic tones. But musically, Teenager isn't a huge departure the Thrills still mix classic bonfire melodies with slightly more ambitious moments (think big, booming UK poprock). Guitarist Daniel Ryan's banjo and mandolin flourishes are almost always transcendent, and Deasy's sickly whine is weirdly addictive, in the grand tradition of Neil Young. Teenager is gloomy without feeling fatalistic; melodic without feeling facile. For the Thrills, a quick locale change has managed to yield impressive results. "}