{"label":" Unknown","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10654/homepage_large.75b6970b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"BBC Radio 1: Established 1967","text":"  The Hot! New! Acts! of today are enlisted to cover 40 years of radio favorites. (Each artist was assigned a year, and tasked with interpreting one of its top 20 hits.) Can I just admit up front that I have a soft spot for silly stuntcasting compilations like this one? For bad compilations in general? If you're over a certain age, this one might seem borderline offensive, like it's actually trying to suggest that the random midlevel favorites of the present are a serious match for 40 great years of popmusic history. If you're very, very young, it'll mean the awful discovery that your hip rock favorites are ready to pay homage to the same songs you're always asking your dad to quit humming and that they don't even sound good doing it. But that's precisely what everyone's after here: a kind of reality TV show for the UK music family, where people embarrass themselves, reveal themselves as terrifically unimaginative, or display talent and humor in the places you least expect it. It's too bad the usedCD dollar bin is a thing of the past, because it's in those racks, years down the road, that these kinds of comps sound best: There is nothing more fun than listening to forgotten secondstringers dress up old chestnuts in the Hot! New! Styles! of a halfdecade ago. But wait: you don't tell your dad to quit humming these songs, and that's exactly why the bulk of the songs on these two discs is almost unlistenably banal. They're heavy on the UK's popular NMEapproved mainstream \"indie\" acts, who tend not to be people with particularly broad talents; much as in the 1990s U.S., knocking out a catchy postpunk guitar song can still get you action over there. Listening to McFly take on the Jam's \"A Town Called Malice\", or Editors run through the Cure's \"Lullaby\" or the Raconteurs do \"Teenage Kicks\", or Kasabian do \"Too Much Too Young\" you get a grand reminder that rock music has not changed nearly enough over the past few decades: These guys are beholden to this music, and can do nothing beyond energetically recreating it, exactly as it was, and probably on the same vintage 1960s guitars. And those still turn out to be the solid ones. The New Yorker critic Sasha FrereJones recently wrote an article wondering why today's indie acts don't take more inspiration from AfricanAmerican music: The sheer musthear horror of the Stereophonics camping up Hot Chocolate's 70s funk hit \"You Sexy Thing\" might scare him off the question. The barband mess the Fratellis make of \"All Along the Watchtower\" sounds like the worst Rock'n'Roll Hall of Fame induction ever. Even the rock/pop collisions I had high hopes for Klaxons covering Blackstreet's r&b hit \"No Diggity\", Maxïmo Park doing Timberlake's \"Like I Love You\" come up lame: You listen to them give it an honest, tasteful shot and then safely decide you'll be fine never doing that again. The Gossip's bynumbers discopunk version of \"Careless Whisper\" develops some heat by the end, and yet never gets as interesting as even Limp Bizkit's numetal version of \"Faith\". But credit goes to HardFi for matching the Vegas bombast of Britney Spears' \"Toxic\", and to the Pigeon Detectives for the grand, straightfaced perversion of choosing a Huey Lewis tune. It's the actual pop acts that fare best here, working as they do with production teams who have this sort of work as part of their job descriptions in the first place. In among tracks it's hard to imagine lots of these acts even dropping as Bsides, Kylie Minogue turns in a version of Roxy Music's \"Love Is the Drug\" that could just as easily have been her next single or an old one, what with \"Can't Get You Out of My Head\" being awfully \"Love Is the Drug\" in the first place. Amy Winehouse does \"Cupid\" (per Johnny Nash, but you'll think Sam Cooke) in a Jamaican rocksteady style that's all Alton Ellis; the listenability quotient goes through the roof. And one wishes the people behind this set would have traded out at least a couple more indie losers for electronic acts, whose music has gone places in the past 30 years, and who turn in most of the fun here. A weird streak of unfortunate reggae touches leaves lots of the rock bands on here sounding like a twodollar Police tribute, but Mika and Armand van Helden actually turn \"Can't Stand Losing You\" into a hissy, scraping, electrohouse gem. And Groove Armada hazy take on Madonna's \"Crazy for You\" is one of too few tracks that offer duh an interesting new take on the original. Irony being uncool these days, there's actually not much in the way of entertaining pisstakes: The most ironic thing here, in fact, turns out to be the totally earnest, straightforward cover the Streets' Mike Skinner gives Elton John's \"Your Song\". (Either that or Robbie Williams singing \"Lola\", which seems rather like he's being ironic about himself.) More disturbingly, hardly anyone goes in for reinventions there is a dutiful straightarrow awardsshow vibe here that seems set on embarrassing anyone who's ever claimed that pop music is subversive. When one of the farthestafield appearances is Just Jack reconfiguring the Cardigans' \"Lovefool\" not exactly a sacred old cow to tweak some kind of imagination deficit is clearly happening. And when the Kooks play Ace of Base's \"All That She Wants\" exactly the way you'd think they would even though you've barely followed who the Kooks even are it gets worse: For what good reason do so many of these acts seem like they're trying to slip by unnoticed, tasteful, boring? We have watched a beatboxing American Idol contestant do more drastic song reinventions in a week than some of these pros attempt. And yet there's something fun about listening through this, and not just because it feels like Ricky Gervais might pop up on backing vocals at any moment it makes for one amazing morning, especially if you're the sort of person who listens to too much music that's selfconscious about being \"good.\" Besides, for a lot of us in the U.S., the UK pop world really is like some kind of strange reality show to check in on now and then amazed by seemingly fictional pop stars like Natasha Bedingfield, wondering how every third band with a halfdecent rock song gets to act important (even if named something like, say, \"the Kooks\", evidently because \"the Wiggles\" was taken), marveling at how this Bizarro Pop Universe can so seldom get any traction in our homeland press. (Plenty of Americans will scan the tracklist of this set and be confused by both sides of the covers: \"Who the hell are Razorlight? Why I have I never heard any 80s hit from any Paul Young, and why does James Morrisson sound so good covering it?\")  American trainspotters of that universe may have a lot more fun with these discs than Brits who have to be surrounded by such stuff constantly: Somewhere between hearing the Streets' Mike Skinner pull a possible Biz Markie on Elton John and noticing Lily Allen starting to sing oddly like Harriet Wheeler from the Sundays, you actually do start chuckling over how strange and silly and human the whole enterprise of music is. Whether or not that's enough to make up for hearing Keane play \"Under Pressure\" a track that puts a critic like me in that position where you tell people \"You have to smell this, it smells horrible\" is an open question.  "}