{"label":" Hyperdub","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10670/homepage_large.eac1d3bc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Burial","title":"Untrue","text":" If you know the true identity of London dubstep artist Burial, consider yourself a member of a very exclusive circle. Steve Goodman, who runs London's Hyperdub label, knows he cuts Burial's royalty checks, after all but if anyone else does, no one has yet had the temerity to out Burial's inner Peter Parker. Read an interview or two with the artist himself, and you'll quickly figure out why he's chosen to remain anonymous. Burial's decision not to let a backstory be a part of the music doesn't come across as a strategy calculated to maximize hype, but just the opposite: a means of keeping the music pure, faceless, answerable only to itself a closed system. The critical success of Burial's selftitled first album threatened to derail the project's mystery, however. A collection of tunes recorded at home on a lowtech setup over the course of many years, Burial moody, brooding, by turns supple and sullen shot to the top of many critics' bestof lists last year. To judge from a recent interview with Burial posted on the Hyperdub website, the attention was more distracting than gratifying. \"The first [album] got slightly out of where it belonged,\" he says, \"and I found it a bit difficult to just block things out and make tunes in a low key way again, and it took time to just get back to doing that, and liking it, and doing it fast, and not trying to be a perfectionist. Just trying to dream up tunes again without worrying what people were going to think.\" But if it's the reclusive life that Burial seeks, he might just be his own worst enemy, because his new album, Untrue, bests Burial's fans' wildest hopes for the followup. Burial was a worthy, sometimes thrilling record an impressive debut but it sometimes lost focus, particularly when it attempted to carve out something closer to \"proper,\" clubwise dubstep. But Untrue maintains the style and the vibe of the first album and yet does it better. It's a deeper album richer, more complex, more enveloping. The irony is that almost nothing has changed. Burial still makes his beats (at least, so he claims) with relatively lofi audio editing software, eschewing the comfort of sequencers and MIDI clocks. His string sounds, which on Burial let many a critic to call his music \"cinematic,\" sound as unabashedly canned as they did last time, and his manipulated vocals warped, timestretched, pitchcorrected are just as unabashedly emotive. Like Burial, Untrue is a homage to UK garage, or twostep a shortlived, oftmourned fusion of breakbeats and house music that peaked in the late 90s before morphing into offshoots dubstep, grime, and bassline house. Thus Burial's beats swing wildly, as though flitting between two tempos in the space of a single bar; jittery hihat patterns flash like knives being sharpened, and toothcracking rimshots invariably fall on the third beat, dividing time in odd ways. His beats seem to rush, trying to catch up with their own outofcontrol forward motion, and then crack! having caught up, they simply hang there, as though unsure what to do with the remaining time left in the measure. It's a relay race marked not by starter's pistols, but stopper's pistols, leaving an impression at once rigid and woozy. But what Burial gets wrong is at least as interesting as what he gets right. Where twostep was marked by its precision staccato subbass, nimble cadences, rapidfire vocal shots Burial smears everything until the songs' moving parts are all but indistinguishable. In \"Ghost Hardware\", what sounds like the creaking of a swingset grates in the background, as if attempting to tug the music out of its planned arc. On \"Shell of Light\", piano and strings eddy to a crawl as rain drizzles over muted, multitracked vocals. There's nothing on Untrue that's likely to work in the dance club, but that's beside the point. Topheavy with sad string passages and mournful vocal loops, Untrue is an album meant to be heard at home, in the car, on headphones his songs feel almost like beautiful secrets being whispered to a listener. Thanks to Burial's use of vocals, Untrue is overflowing with earworms, its spongy terrain pocked and pitted until the ground threatens to give way with every step. It's not a pop album, at least not by Top 40 standards, but his voices male, female, and ambiguous wriggle deep into the listener's consciousness. They're just intelligible enough to stick I'm pretty sure that the refrain to \"Near Dark\" runs, \"I can see why I love you\" and unintelligible enough to resist dislodging. Occasionally paired with scraps of what might be movie dialogue, they recall the haunted intimacy of Luomo's Vocalcity; like that record, they toy with r&b's conventions, heavy with breath and rippling with trills and melisma, some of it digitally imposed. Like everything in Burial's music, the vocals are supercharged with emotion: Loaded with distance, they often sound like they've been recorded several rooms away from their source. Burial isn't afraid of sidling up next to cheesiness, practically flirting with bathos his string sounds are uniformly synthetic and his voices seem expressed in miniature; like Thom Yorke, he raises affect almost to the level of fetish. Burial's allpermeating use of reverb could be a crutch if it didn't work so well. The haze works in his favor, leaving a level of plausible deniability you can never be entirely sure that what you're hearing is really there in the track, creating a wonderfully unfinished feeling to the record. \"Sometimes you just want music to stay where it is from,\" says Burial in his Hyperdub interview. \"I love drum & bass, jungle, hardcore, garage, dubstep, and always will till I die, and I don't want the music I love to be a global samplepack music. I like underground tunes that are true and mongrel and you see people trying to break that down, alter its nature. Underground music should have its back turned, it needs to be gone, untrackable, unreadable, just a distant light.\" Untrue is just that. It quivers like a hissing lightbulb, one that illuminates the tracks scattered around it garage, dubstep, soul and in doing so smears them into unique shapes. Untrue shows the hunched, unreadable form of Burial's refusenik stance back turned, hands shoved in pockets and practically commands you to follow. "}