{"label":" Dinkytown","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1080/homepage_large.e0cee3be.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Andrew Broder","title":"Modern Hits EP","text":" The concept is simple: take vocals from one track and superimpose them on another. From a purely theoretical stance, remixes of this sort are the most rudimentary, since the \"mix\" itself is defined as a crude binary: there are the vocals, and there are the nonvocals. Demixed, then simply matched, the remix's essential incongruity stands naked. There's no mediation, as, say, a body of water offers a safe view of the sun, which is too bright for our eyes to look upon directly, and for this reason, whether it shocks, disgusts, or makes us laugh momentarily, a simple, unadorned remix always has a blinding deal of potency. By its very nature, then, the Modern Hits EP, a remix project in which Andrew Broder aka Minneapolisbased Ninja Tune artist Fog  robs wellknown hiphop songs of their rhymes and resituates them before his musty lofi backdrops, at once surprises, delights, and disgusts the listener. Broder orphans six fierce rhymesayers JayZ, Nas, MF Doom, Outkast, Edan, and Kool G. Rap and doordrops each into completely unfamiliar territory; willed or not, they become Marlows floating down the snaked rivers of dark indiepop jungles, and both the invader and the invaded are equally affected. Which is all well and good, but the ultimate question is this: Is there anything beyond the novelty? Are the remixes selfsufficient and interesting independent of their source material? Put crudely, is Broder's Modern Hits EP just a joke? To a certain extent, it is. All that actually makes these tracks interesting is that they very simply exploit the tension between testosteronefueled rap boasts and Broder's quaint indiefolk instrumentation. Like any joke, each track loses its replay luster as its cleverness is unpacked, with hardly any substance lying beyond the initial jolt. But, that said, the jokes on Modern Hits are pretty brilliant, each remix unsettlingly clever for its apparent easiness, as Broder playfully subverts hiphop's trademark taunt and confidence. \"The Whole World\" pits Outkast's vocal jingle against a shufflebeat of piano, held organ, and an unwieldy, Athenslike collected chorus that redeems the original's warbly melody. In the countrified \"Drop Some Smooth Lyrics\", Broder squaredances with Edan to a strummed acoustic guitar ditty, replete with cowbell spatters and an insistent onbeat bass drum. MF Doom's vitriol in \"Ain't Nothing\" is neutralized by a vaguely new age shakergroove of auxiliary percussion, Wurlitzer reeds, and a masterfully awful trumpet. Broder detours from the straightforward, too, indulging in an extreme abstraction of Kool G. Rap's \"On the Run\", in which film samples, guitar, and bass \"interpret\" the lyrics as they spew, reacting most notably to Kool's recounting of a driveby with sampled bullet swipes and intense choral moans. While not the most enjoyable remix, it certainly comprises the album's most interesting and innovative, as Broder adds an unusual poignancy to lyrics that just as easily could have been parodied. While the other tracks are decidedly lofi and, to an extent, rhythmically unadventurous, Broder's take on JayZ's \"The Takeover\" bursts with energy from the outset, infusing the original's cool confidence with a menacing big beat and a frequent recurrences of skittery quasiragtime pianos catfighting one another outside a Charlie Chaplin saloon. The duel oddly mirrors JayZ's lyrical spray against rapper Nas, whose own remixed track, \"One Mic\", follows to close out the album, slow and inwardly motivated like the original. Herein lies Broder's grandest conceit: not only has he humorously juxtaposed the tracks of two archnemeses, but, by remixing both of them with such drastically variant but equally quirky approaches, he's relegated the two and their differences to utter inconsequence Jay's lyric, \"I sampled your voice, you was usin' it wrong/ You made it a hot line, I made it a hot song,\" now boils with irony. Call it hubris or just stupid; either way, it's pretty funny, and displays a sense of humor we rarely see in independent music. "}