{"label":" Def Jam / Roc-A-Fella","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10672/homepage_large.c36ecd5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Jay-Z","title":"American Gangster","text":"  The story goes like this: After seeing an advance print of the Ridley Scott herointrade epic American Gangster, JayZ found himself inspired. The movie details the story of the Vietnamera Harlem kingpin Frank Lucas, and Jay saw so many parallels between Lucas's life and his own. Over the course of a few weeks, Jay recorded his own widescreen epic, a conceptalbum about the rise and fall of a gangster like Lucas, an imagined whatif trajectory for what might have happened to Jay if he'd never left the drug trade. It makes for a good story and a great marketing coup. By attaching himself to a bigbudget crime epic, Jay guaranteed himself crossmedia presence and positioned himself to regain some of the grimy credibility he'd lost with 2006's Kingdom Come, the wouldbe comeback that found Jay rapping about brands so expensive most of his audience had no idea what he was talking about. In working to create the impression that he'd sacrificed commerce for art, Jay recast himself as an artist rather than a CEO, a canny commercial move at a time when rappers like Kanye West are outselling CEOs like 50 Cent. As a piece of mediamanipulation, American Gangster is dazzling. But as music? Well, as a conceptalbum, American Gangster is kind of a wash. Over the course of its first 13 tracks, the album loosely outlines the criminal rise and fall we've seen in so many movies: the desperation of youth, the excited early schemes, the slow hardfought rise, the lavish celebration of that rise, the eventual joyless inertia involved in maintaining that success, the sudden and inevitable descent into a prisoncell anonymity worse than death. That story animates the album, but it doesn't dictate its movements. Throughout, JayZ breaks that narrative whenever he feels like it, taking care to force in all his standbys: The sneering aristocratic deaththreats, the breezy uptempo partysongs, the (especially forced) fortheladies seductionsong.  Jay actually corrupts the impact of his own moralistic riseandfall story by ending the album with a pair of bonus tracks, \"Blue Magic\" and \"American Gangster\", that trumpet Jay's own triumph over the vast impersonal forces that landed his protagonist in prison. On \"Blue Magic\", he even growls, \"Can't you tell that I came from the dope game?\" like it's a point of personal pride, immediately after he depicted an inevitable criminal downfall. On his widescope artpiece, Jay still can't put aside commercial success and relentless selfaggrandizement, even if those twin impulses fuck up his concept. So American Gangster doesn't quite work as a concept album, but it's difficult to imagine the record would be better if that concept had been fully realized and fleshedout. Jay's evident obsession with the postDon Imus furor over nihilistic rap lyrics has fuckall to do with his gangster narrative, for instance, but Jay's willingness to break narrative and address that obsession leads to lines like this one, where he calls out recent rap foe Al Sharpton on \"Say Hello\": \"Tell him I'll remove the curses/ If you tell me our schools gon' be perfect/ When Jena 6 don't exist / Tell him that's when I'll stop saying 'bitch,' bitch!\" The album's story gives it enough structure to feel huge and allencompassing, but Jay floats in and out of it as fluidly as he switches between the first and second person. And so the drugdealer story serves an important purpose: It rips Jay out of the royal materialistic oldman haze that ruined Kingdom Come and recalls the titanic, invincible snarl that made him great in the first place.  On American Gangster, he's fallen back in love with language, making slick puns and jamming his lines with internal rhymes and vivid, detailed images without letting those devices detract from the emotional punch of his mininarratives. \"No Hook\" has some of the most complicated rhymepatterns he's tried in years, but it's all in service of a sad picture of the conflicts of anyone who makes a living doing dangerous, immoral things: \"'Stay out of trouble,' mama said as mama sighs/ Her fear her youngest son being victim of homicide/ But I gotta get you out of here, mama, or I'm [long pause] die [long pause] inside.\" (Nobody uses long breathless pauses like JayZ; when he's at his best, as he is here, those silences can say as much as his words.)  On \"Roc Boys (And the Winner Is)\", the buoyant and celebratory ode to financial success, Jay thanks every device and corrupt institution that made his rise possible: \"The Nike shoebox for holding all this cash/ Boys in blue who put the greed before the badge.\" On \"Blue Magic\", his wordplay is so dense that it can take multiple listens to parse: \"Blame Reagan for making me to a monster/ Blame Oliver North and Iran Contra/ I ran contraband that they sponsored.\" (Maybe I'm dumb, but it took me a while to realize that the second of those lines ends with the exact same four syllables as the next line's beginning.) On \"Fallin'\", the song about the dealer's comeuppance, Jay sounds like he's spent a lot of time thinking about the fate he avoided: \"Come January, it gets cold/ When your letters come in slow and your commissary's low.\" And on \"Ignorant Shit\", a Black Album outtake revisited and revamped here, Jay positively relishes the contradictions of rap, a genre where every artist theatrically proclaims himself to be more real than everyone else: \"Actually believe half of what you see/ None of what you hear, even if it's spit by me/ And with that being said, I will kill niggas dead.\"  Musically, American Gangster is lush and spacious. The sampled voices of Al Green and Marvin Gaye float through the record like ghosts of Jay's past, sweetly offering encouragement like benevolent angels. Jay's handpicked lineup of producers keep his voice grounded in thick, organic globs of 1970s soul. Diddy and the Hitmen, the reunited production who gave old Bad Boy albums their flamboyant elegance, turn in five tracks on the album, and their work drips with ambition. On albumopener \"Pray\" they outfit Jay with churning strings, screaming guitars, cinematic soundeffects, and a histrionic gospel choir; the horns, windchimes, and rolling drums of \"Sweet\" are almost exhausting in their richness. But not all the production is that warm and languid. On \"Success\", Jay and guest Nas rant paranoically over No ID's disorienting storm of organwails and murky, offkilter drums. On \"Ignorant Shit\", Just Blaze layers up a furious storm of tinny synths and guitars, giving Jay's shittalk a trashy \"Miami Vice\" veneer. And \"Hello Brooklyn 2.0\", built from an old Beastie Boys track, is a stark corrective to all those florid harps and violins: all booming bass and skeletal handclaps, Jay sounding more at home than guest Lil Wayne. When Jay taped his episode of \"VH1 Storytellers\" in Brooklyn last month, he kept comparing tracks from the album to moments from The Godfather and Scarface. American Gangster isn't really about Jay's own memories, and it's certainly not about Frank Lucas. Instead, it's an album about Jay's mythic legacy, his place in a pantheon of largerthanlife outlaws. Problematically enough, it works because it reconnects Jay with the verbal and musical eloquence that allowed him to escape from an outlaw's life. If it took a big Hollywood movie and a halfbaked concept to get him back to that, then thank God for big Hollywood movies and halfbaked concepts.  "}