{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10679/homepage_large.91236bcc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Concentrik","title":"Aluminum Lake","text":" In the past, Tim Green would use the Concentrick moniker as an outlet for creative urges he couldn't sufficiently satisfy with his more notable musical outlet, the Fucking Champs. For the fourth Concentrick album, however, he's taking a different tack, with a version of the ruckus he offers during his day job more informed by his other notable gig as a member of flowerpowered Citay. For listeners looking to scratch that instrumental itch only the Champs can reach, but not in the mood for the group's relentless virtuosic shredding, Aluminum Lake is the perfect solution. The album begins with \"Waterfall\", a song that could find a nice home on the soundtrack of an animeladen roleplaying Playstation game, fluttering in the background while you choose between upgrading your strength or your wisdom. The album's title track follows, with its somber torpor and elegiac string section acting as a palette cleanser for Aluminum Lake's heaviest hitter. \"White Bear\" is the one song on the album that comes closes to the Champs' metalupyourass M.O., spending over three minutes expertly building up to the inevitable (albeit subdued) riff onslaught it's not the display of fleetfingered dexterity one might expect or hope for, but it's still showy and kickass enough to perhaps inspire the flashing of devil horns in the comfort of your listening area. Some of the tracks opt to take a quieter meandering route, as song titles like \"Transillumination\" and \"Time Is The Sphere Which Surrounds The World\" might suggest. There's plenty of raucous rock to be had, though. The groovy half of \"Punjab Glory\" should satiate any burgeoning desire to shake your moneymaker to any sort of odious boogierock, while the song's other half is taken up with another blistering solo. \"Divine Wind\" gracefully melds the otherworldly grandeur of \"Kashmir\"era Zeppelin with Iommiesque chugging (and perhaps, with those higharcing guitar notes, a slight nod to \"War Pigs\" as well). The motorik bounce of \"Expertz\", on the other hand, makes the track sound like an early Trans Am outtake were it not for Green wheedlywheedling his way to the song's conclusion, one might think it was a straightup cover. In fact, some doubters might see this album as Tim Green covering himself, deploying his usual bag of tricks in a needlessly watereddown fashion. For those with a glasshalffull view, this is simply Green giving listeners an enjoyable tour of the many places he's been. "}