{"label":" Fader","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10677/homepage_large.c1c166c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Saul Williams","title":"The Inevitable Rise and Liberation of NiggyTardust!","text":"  There's two novel ideas at work behind this album, but only one of them's getting much attention. Trent Reznor has been pretty upfront recently about his general disdain with the way the music industry works, encouraging concertgoers to share his music and going public with his irritation at the cost of his own CDs. It became apparent once Reznor parted ways with Interscope that he'd be looking for a new business plan that would circumvent your gardenvariety industry bullshit. All it took to set a solidenough precedent was Radiohead's paywhatyouwant model for In Rainbows after that, the \"try it for free; pay $5 if you like it and you get to download higherquality audio files\" plan for the new Saul Williams album The Inevitable Rise and Liberation of NiggyTardust! was enough to get some attention all by itself. But the other novel idea, being overlooked in lieu of the distribution plan, is the album's stylistic approach. Saul Williams, despite being more of a straightup poet than an MC, is one of those rare artists who justifies the notion of a hiphop/rock interchange in a postnumetal world. His aggression is focused, pointed, and selfaware enough to avoid falling into tempertantrum emptiness, and it's backed by music that focuses on the aesthetic slipperiness of heavy rock's capabilities. After 2001's Rick Rubinproduced Amethyst Rock Star and his selftitled 2004 record (featuring guest spots from Zack de la Rocha and Serj Tankian), it isn't a shock that Williams paired up with Reznor for this new album especially considering Saul's opened for Nine Inch Nails on more than one tour over the last couple of years. But to hear Williams' firebrand rhetoric about black identity delivered over an album filled with punk and industrial undercurrents and to hear Reznor infuse those undercurrents with moments of hiphop inspiration ranging from Southern bounce to straightup Public Enemy tributes is eyeopening. As for whether it results in an entertaining record, well, that probably depends on whether you like to be less comfortable going out of an album than you are coming in. There's plenty about the production for NiggyTardust! that makes it initially accessible opening track \"Black History Month\" makes like a drumline facing off against skyscraper subwoofers; there's a touch of Timbaland gone malicious in the supple but abrasive electrobounce of tracks like \"The Ritual\" and \"Break\"; there's even a semifaithful cover of U2's \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" stripped down to the rhythm and augmented with flashes of buzzing synth. But those moments don't sustain or define the album as much as the anxious, creepingtension moments do; apparently Trent put together the bulk of NiggyTardust!'s beats with the ingredients he left out of Year Zero for not being immediate enough. The slowgrower songs, like the Boards of Canada soundalike \"No One Ever Does\", the sleepy, minimalist, dying808 pulse of \"Raw\" and its clangy, semiorganic counterpart \"Skin of a Drum\", mostly act as rhythms for Williams' voice to ricochet off. And even when the production gets intense (the postrockvs.Neptunes clamor of \"Convict Colony\"; the classic Downward Spiralisms of dirge \"Raised to be Lowered\"), Saul's voice still acts as the dominant instrument wailing, murmuring, jousting sneeringly with his own overdubbed voice, and even veering fascinatingly close to Reznor's own stylings; credits notwithstanding I'm still not 100% convinced it's not actually Trent singing on \"Banged and Blown Through\", which attests to Williams' versatility as a singer. In a sort of simultaneous downside and necessity, Williams' lyrics tend to be a bit opaque and evasive, dodging the straightforwardness that many of his ideas demand even if his voice shapes them into something heavier. Sometimes, they're too busy asking questions to account for all the possible answers: PE homage \"Tr(n)igger\" brings up a familiar but crucially unnerving theory (\"would Jesus Christ come back American/ What if he's Iraqi and here again?\") only to drop it after a disorienting barrage of unclear \"where will you be when the revolution starts\" rhetoric.  Then there's tracks like \"Black History Month\" (\"I'm taking my spot, nigga, I ain't afraid to be me/ Sometimes I find it very hard to be/ Who? Me\") and \"Scared Money\" (\"I swear, I used to pray to change back the year/ When niggas spoke of motherships with space helmets for hair/ Well, now what have we here? Thugs and poets, ah yeah/ What we seem to have in common is we're common as air\") which address the need to find a place for the foreign and the unreal in a hiphop culture concerned with regionalism and realism. The songs, however, have so many layers of language that the core message is a bit hard to grasp. Yet making the listener work doesn't necessarily make for a bad record, just a challenging one, and since NiggyTardust opts to leave the easy answers in the margins, its more resonant lines skew toward the kinds of uncomfortable accusations and introspective examinations that are both difficult and important to mull over. Yeah, the pricing's fair, but it's not the five bucks you have to worry about it's your full attention. It might be harder to focus on this record than it is to actually put down money for it; but to get anything out of it, you've got to pay into it.  "}