{"label":" 54ยบ40' or Fight!","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10680/homepage_large.e8ad67f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Alina Simone","title":"Placelessness","text":" Alina Simone's debut EP, Prettier in the Dark, showcased a singersongwriter still trying to find herself. In a presumably coincidental case of serendipity, her protagonists underwent the same sort of selfdiscovery Simone herself struggles with over the course of this record. Moments where her voice displays a fragile strength are undercut by moments where her singing turns shrill and coarse. Evocative, lyrical images are offset by awkward stabs at meaningful poetics. Some songs benefit from the space and sparse arrangements Simone and her producer give them; others simply unfurl in a graceless fashion. Despite its faults, the EP was an intriguing effort from a performer that showed a great amount of potential. Unfortunately, Simone's first fulllength (appropriately titled Placelessness) finds her in a place not much different than where she began, making many of the same missteps she did the first time around. At this point in her career, Simone sounds best when she sounds like someone else. Some exposure to her vocal proclivities will undoubtedly bring Cat Power to mind, and her songs are at their strongest when she attacks them crossbones style, adding skeletal drum and bass accompaniment to her fractured guitar slashes and equally fractured singing. The album's opening and closing moments are its peaks. Lead track \"Velvet Painting\" says its peace in a brief, punchy fashion, and is followed by the more measured, but no less intense, \"Saw Edged Grass\". The album's final song, \"Country of Two\", is the album's best, the band's dry attack underpinning a striking portrait of a woman alone with her lover in \"a placeless place I found with you.\" Despite a lessthangraceful ending where she attempt to conflate the American flag's stars and stripes with \"sicklecelled hammerheaded sharks\", the song succeeds by playing to Simone's strengths. The problem with Placelessness is that these shows of strength are few and far between. The seven tracks nestled between the three previous mentioned are songs where Simone tries to broaden her aesthetic palette beyond what she does best. Though admirable, this overreaching leads to tracks like \"Nightswimming\" (where Simone shrieks \"just step ahead\" over and over atop somber banjo picking) and \"Riot Act\" (where Simone, alone with an electric guitar, tries to carry a song by shouting her way through). Her idiosyncratic voice can be charismatic and powerful in the proper setting, but letting it flail about unfettered in such an exposed manner does Simone no favors. When she sings a capella, as she does during the beginning and ending of \"Lonesome\", she throttles her lyrics with overwrought cries and wails. These histrionics turn what could be wrenching emotional moments into coffeehouse versions of \"American Idol\" open tryouts, and it's miscalculations like this that ultimately sabotage whatever promise the album contains.  Alina Simone reports on her web site that her upcoming album (due next spring) will be comprised of cover songs written by Russian \"punkfolk\" singer Yanka Dyagileva. Here's hoping that by singing someone else's words, she can begin to discover her own voice.  "}