{"label":" Nettwerk","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10688/homepage_large.3713deaa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Ferraby Lionheart","title":"Catch the Brass Ring","text":" If you're playing into the grain of the new Americana, then a big component of your shtick is that you are who you are, and there's a lot riding on your name. In this, the creator of Catch the Brass Ring seems to have an unfair advantage. \"Ryan Adams\" sounds like the neighborhood kid who mows your lawn, but \"Ferraby Lionheart\" could be an XMan or space pirate. Hearing Lionheart's album, however, paints a different mental picture: A demurely disheveled young man slouched in an overstuffed leather chair; a book shelf to one side discreetly displaying titles by John Steinbeck, Robert Frost, and Walt Whitman; a battered acoustic guitar propped against a synthetic fireplace on the other. The postersize gloss of Catch the Brass Ring lends itself to this type of visual approximation; listening to the intimately arranged walking bass and sprightly piano of \"Small Planet\", you can practically see the copyright boilerplate in your mind's eye. But while his music bleeds familiarity from every pore, Lionheart remains hard to fathom, as the video for \"Small Planet\" gives us yet another representation of him. Not hirsute and vaguely selfserious, but elfin and vaguely selfmocking: Playing a tiny piano on a cardboard moon, wearing what appears to be a white satin scarf, Lionheart's selfportrayal in the video is too absurd to be anything but parody. Pantomiming the song's lyrics, he actually chases a woman in a fox mask through the forest like some reaver in a Conan the Barbarian novel, albeit one mapped onto a Victorian idyll. But if you can get over the fact that he sounds like Rufus Wainwright with a bad head cold, the sweeping melody has a pleasantly overstated allure. Concise intro \"Un Ballo Della Luna\" is more discerning, a casually doleful acoustic blur that takes the syrupy tang out of Lionheart's voice, which seeps like an ooze over roomier piano ballads like \"Call Me the Sea\". The more agile ivorytickling of \"The Car Maker\" seems to nudge Lionheart out of his stupor, less stuffy Rufus and more drowsy Sondre Lerche. This liveliness is sustained through the downstroked bounce of \"A Bell and Tumble\" and picks back up with the hottedup bigband jazz of \"Before We're Dead\", but on \"Under the Texas Sky\", everything melts back into a puddle of backporch strummery and soppy harmonies. \"Youngest Frankenstein\" lets us know what Devendra Banhart might sound like were he captured from the wild and domesticated: Secondhand personality is as close as Lionheart gets to the real thing on Catch the Brass Ring.  Of course, the album can't coalesce a persona out of all these red herrings. It's impossible to get a sense of who Ferraby Lionheart is, or even who he'd like to be, which is an important aspect of his singer/songwriterly genre we're meant to get a sense of direct communication, as if the singers are teaching us about ourselves by speaking honestly about themselves. Specificity has to somehow make itself known through the thick archetypal veneer. Lionheart's fondness for devices like Southern Lit speech (\"We can make a meal of dust/ Mary's in the market mural\" he sings on \"Vermont Avenue\", building something more like a diorama than an actual scene) and schmaltzy string embellishments create too many layers for us to perceive him specifically, hearing instead a mostly pleasant (if sometimes overbearing) amalgam of canonical American songcraft, rendered as a closed form. Lionheart's somebody something about his earnestness seems cagey and calculated but he seems to be going to great pains to conceal who, and in the end, the elaborately staged and topically skittish video for \"Small Planet\" is the best visual representation of his mannered musical pantomime.  "}