{"label":" Academy Fight Song / Silver Sleeve","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10686/homepage_large.1bf57bb6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Soft","title":"Gone Faded","text":"  In press kits, interviews, and fanatical web reviews, Soft's diligence gets played up nearly to the point of selfmythologizing. As the legend goes, they formed back in 2003, holed themselves up in a Williamsburg apartment, and put their noses to the grindstone five nights a week for an entire year, so dedicated to songwriting and rehearsing they forewent live shows. After releasing a snappy EP in 2005, they've finally birthed Gone Faded, a debut album that, despite its fouryear gestation period, feels no more prodigal than the next anglophilic Brooklyn band. Of course, we've heard tales of maddeningly meticulous songwriters before, whether it's Brian Wilson taking nearly 40 years to complete Smile or Rivers Cuomo claiming to have invented mathematical formulas for the perfect pop song. But hearing this spiel about an unproven band that churns out slick Britpop and shoegaze carbon copies doesn't nearly have the same effect. Oh yeah, and there's also that seminal songwriting eccentric Kevin Shields Soft can't even pretend to hide the massive debt they've racked up to him, right down to halfheartedly copping his reclusive shtick. Now this isn't to knock Gone Faded completely. On a handful of tracks here they scrape the heavens of postLoveless shoegaze, particularly bands like Swervedriver or Ride, who took elements of the genre and tidied them up into threetofour minute poprock songs. \"Higher\" could've slacked and become a cheesy Coldplay ballad, but singer Johnny Reineck justifies the track's cadre of effects pedals and tacky studio sheen with strong melodies and a smart, subtle chorus. \"You Make Me Wanna Die\", while laughably similar to Oasis at their peak, contains as many mindblowing riffs as the Gallagher brothers inserted into their Beatlesesque hits.  However, as Soft ventures away from this formula, their limitations become painfully apparent. Reineck's vocals especially get stretched thin, as stabs at Madchester like the title track and \"Great Spirit\" find him sounding like a chipmunk version of Shaun Ryder. By the album's second half, the band doesn't even feign interest in creating highconcept art, indulging instead in toothless acoustic songs peppered with ad hoc reverb licks and gratuitous harmonies. The buzz is that these guys busted their humps with Gone Faded, and the excess of artifice here confirms that. Sadly though, while stressing over stylistic emulation and production x's and o's, they forgot to write enough fleshedout songs.  "}