{"label":" Hello Sir","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10685/homepage_large.2c99fcb4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"We Versus the Shark","title":"EP of Bees EP","text":"  We Versus the Shark, along with many of the bands on the Hello Sir label, have picked up the torch from the postFugazi guitar outfits of the late 1990s like Les Savy Fav and Faraquet, with records as exciting as those bands' humble, spastic beginnings, if not yet as innovative as those artists at their peak. The Athens, Ga., band's debut seemed poised on the edge of breakthrough, or at least something more than adding up their disparate influences, and they certainly sound more confident on this followup EP. But if this breakthrough was to involve slowing down or trimming the fat in some way, well, We Versus the Shark have other ideas.EP of Bees EP (circuitous and maximalist down to its silly title, even), is more, more, more: more vocals, more prodigiously fast and complex rhythms, and more moments that could cause arthritis in Guitar Hero XII: Athens Rises Again. It's not quite as dynamic as the group's debut, but there is never a dull moment just songs stuffed with jittery, unpredictable rhythms, jagged guitars, and tense vocals until you can hear the seams tearing. There's the kind of instrumental brawn here that you'd expect from labelmates like Cinemechanica rather than the band that made Ruin Everything! a couple years ago. A slippery, discordant guitar riff precedes a swinging, backwardsblues stomp in \"I Am a Fantastic Battle\", with the vocals going from exhaustingly rapidfire lyrics to syncopated grunting on the chorus, and more spidery guitar work throughout. It's a weird, winding path of genre, like a Family Circus comic, that the band traverses to sound like mathrock biting at the back fins of prog: Through equal parts basementshow sweat and adroit ambition, that seems to be where they've landed.  \"The Lament of Sue Richards\" spotlights guitarist/singer Samantha Paulsen's vocals and a followthebouncingball keyboard line, with bass/keys/other singer Jeff Tobias barking over the diverging Bsections. It'd be the catchiest track with Paulsen on her own, but it's even more memorable for its juxtapositions, making other tracks sound a little haphazard in comparison. The song's final flashy breakdown comes out of nowhere, and it's a stunning, unabashed showoff moment for the band that might have you whooping and applauding in front of your stereo. (A quick skim of the liveperformance DVD included reveals that while guitarist/singer Luke Fields has plenty of rock star moves, Paulsen is actually our nimblefingered hero.)  Both \"We Versus the Inevitability of Death\" and \"(After)life Things\" play it quiet during the verses while the rhythm section pays no heed, jamming just as quickly and nervously as anywhere else. \"Inevitability\" even flirts on the edge of danceability, with clattering, simmering percussion under the whispers and insinuations of Paulsen and Fields. \"(After)life Things\" has lovely, somber guitar work, and some quiet and oddly poignant calmofthestorm moments, though it also seems a bit jumbled.  A few of the shrugging spoken lyrics hint at Travis Morrison's expressive intonation, though they're not quite as clever with the content. One male singer is a desperate screamer while the other is an overenunciator, and there's not much of a range between them. But this is why the band's threepronged attack, much more evident here than on their debut, works to their advantage. EP of Bees marks a transitional moment, sure, but that's one of the things EPs are good for. A transition this confident promises good things to come.  "}