{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1082/homepage_large.f5ec93ad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Bexar Bexar","title":"Haralambos","text":" At the risk of sounding woefully unsophisticated, I must assert that the majority of instrumental pop releases strike me as, the Brits would say, poncey. Though my jaw dropped along with Millions Now Living Will Never Die, though I've exfoliated triumphantly in a clawfoot tub to Don Cab's American Don, and though the posthardcore fusion of Guinnessworldrecord hopefuls Hella astounds me, I can barely bring myself to spend money on the stuff, which makes being a promoentitled critic pretty bitchin'. If you can't admit that a large proportion of vocalless CDs wallow in Louisville/Chicago plodnamics, then you must live in a library or a sex lounge. Which is, of course, a way of saying that these albums best befit either studying or, as PG movies in the 80s would say, the making of whoopee. The borderlands minimalism of Bexar Bexar seems to subvert the limitations of instrupop via variety and hypnotic (but not numbing) repetition. Their sound is as urbane as it is provincial, equal parts Fennesz and Jay Farrar's score for The Slaughter Rule. I'd normally flinch at how Bexar Bexar hints rather than goads, falling in line with instrupop's creed of circuitousness, but they are the rare act that pulls off being scions of Mick Turner pedalflexing and Martin Gore echosonics, and so subtly that they make Calexico's vocalless numbers seem Limp Biskitesque. \"Aidos\" forges a gorgeous Frankensong out of laptoppery and sentimental guitar, suggesting a sublimicore U2. Any rookie Ghostbuster could detect Jeff Tweedy's desire to strum over the bliploops and hesitant piano of \"Where She Lives Every Day\". The Flintstones percussion of \"Esther's Vice\" entrances the listener as the plucking rises and fades in the mix, silencing anyone whose previous position on instrupop was \"Hey mang, wake me when Cerberus Shoal is finished.\" Full truthinadvertising legislation would require that Bexar Bexar label their disc with a warning that it might take people back to that one particular adolescent autumn when sports seemed spiritual and the prom seemed like performance art. Their whittled sound is a Battlefield:Earth between synthesizers and sixstrings in which no winner is declared. Only their lateblooming, pokier compositions lend credence to the idea that instrupop is a tad Cirque de Soleil, or for people bored with debating how Philip Glass' symphony of David Bowie's Low ripped off his own Mishima soundtrack. Consciously fending off instrupop dismissals by flouting how much they are loved by NPR's This American Life may be a ponceybunk move, but a quick consultation of Bexar Bexar's \"Red R.O.T\" and \"Blue R.O.T\" should qualify them to accompany the day that cancer is considered a natural cause. "}