{"label":" A&M","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10694/homepage_large.be66953d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Hives","title":"The Black and White Album","text":" Roll back to 200102: A swarm of vaguely retrothinking garage bands with pluralnoun names (the Hives, the Strokes, the Vines, the White Stripes) were credited with reinvigorating rock'n'roll. The press went all breathless at the sight of slightly disheveled boys in tight pants, and the Hives were promptly slapped on the cover of Spin, extensively profiled in The New Yorker, and repeatedly fawned over by the NME. Alas, the new millennium's culturecycle is especially vicious, and by 2004, when the Hives released their fourth LP (Tyrannosaurus Hives, the followup to their stateside breakthrough, Veni Vidi Vicious), most folks had moved on which is too bad, because of all the overhyped revivalists of the early 00s, the Hives might be the most fun. Although The Black and White Album features the same ecstatic, semiridiculous guitar thrashing that characterizes most of the band's previous work, it also sees the Hives expanding their sound to include more bass and songs that clock in over three minutes. This time, the band ditched its native Fagersta, Sweden to record, mostly, in Oxford, Mississippi, soliciting help from a handful of allstar producers: Pharrell Williams, Jacknife Lee, Dennis Herring (who's worked with Modest Mouse and Elvis Costello), and Thomas Oberg (beloved vocalist for a bunch of Swedish rock bands, including Bergman Rock/bob hund). With all that muscle behind the boards, it's not surprising that this is also the Hives' cleanest record to date the Hives were never particularly convincing as a garage band (the impeccablytailored, colorcoordinated suits didn't help), and any delusionsofgrit they may have entertained in the past are wholly eradicated here.The Black and White Album can feel, at times, thematically spastic, spinning more like a mixtape than a proper LP. Pharrell's two standout tracks \"Well All Right!\" and \"T.H.E.H.I.V.E.S\" are both slinky clapalongs that play remarkably well to the band's partyanthem tendencies: \"Well All Right!\" sees frontman Howlin' Pelle Almqvist shrieking \"People see me and they go/ Ahhhhh! Woo woo!\" over pittering drums and perfectlyorchestrated backing chants, a jubilant bit of shameless selfpromotion that suits Almqvist remarkably well. Regardless of how you feel about his thick, barky pipes, Almqvist is a captivating performer both live and in the studio strutting back and forth like a cartoon Mick Jagger, lips pouted, hips popped, voice undulating, partJames Brown, partJohn Fogerty. Each vocal track on The Black and White Album sounds intense and revelatory; paired with Pharrell's playful production, the Hives soar.  The Hives' three selfproduced cuts are just as jubilant with the exception of the instrumental \"A Stroll Through Hive Manor Corridors\", which is all fartbass and creepy synthesizers. It's presumably a concept song about lifeasaHive, but it's also the band at their most subdued. Jacknife Lee's track (\"Hey Little World\") is classic Hives, frantic and propulsive, with a few simple riffs and a broad, confrontational chorus (\"Whatcha gonna do/ Any one of you?\"). The bulk of the record is handled by Herring; on opener (and lead single) \"Tick Tick Boom\" a wall of guitars is balanced by a wall of vocals, with all five band members worked into a proper frenzy and howling away. At their best, the Hives are frenetic and volatile, jolting, pushing, panting it's punk rock at its most polished, with only the barest threat of dissolution.  "}