{"label":" Friends","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10693/homepage_large.4fc0ed2f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"President","title":"Take Music","text":"  Even by the modest standards of Q and Not U, not much noise has been made for President, the postbreakup project of that band's guitarist, Harris Klahr. And it's a shame, because while this album's minimal arrangements and budget production values might call for lowered expectations, Klahr's ambitions are lofty and frequently realized, and no beat or texture within his gaze can't be assimilated. \"Bedroom Stereolab\" would be the quickest way to describe the playful diversity of the songs on Take Music. The tracks run the gamut from relaxed and intoxicating, like opener \"Gliding\", to seriously funky workouts like the busy, layered drums and swirling, circular guitar and synth lines of \"Coils of Oils\". All the while, Klahr wails over the music, sounding like a teenage Perry Farrell. Part of what made Q and not U interesting was their ear for unusual rhythms, though they unfortunately broke up before they could ever dig too deep. Klahr probably had no small part in that, and that omnivorous tendency is very much on display here. President can steal from everywhere, and often do: The damp, musty keyboards that drive the creeping buttshaker \"Light Magus\" (the title should clue you in on the track's inspiration), the pronounced looping of acoustic guitars in the gentlebutjarring \"Tamb 2\", or the sleazy 1980s synthpop in \"Reasons in Seasons\". As a digitalonly release, it's easy to wonder whether a CD or vinyl release might add something to the muffled chorus of drum circles and wheezing melodicas in \"Ghost Logo\", or what sounds like a cardboard disco diorama (literal microhouse, perhaps?) on the softly nagging thump of \"By the Wall\". To be fair, many of these tracks are more sketches than actual songs filled with loops that tantalize, vocal repetitions that build unreleased tension, atmospheres that envelop the listener just to evaporate moments later. But as sketches go, they bode well for future release, provided President's idea of a big single isn't the repetitive and relentlessly perky \"In the Sun\", which closes the record. It's probably the most \"finished\" track, but everything before it hints at a darker, funkier, more sophisticated party.  Plenty of bands have aimed for a more omnicultural sound with punk instrumentation and fallen short (El Guapo come to mind), but the clearly intentional lofi production of Take Music deflates a lot of expectation. There's not a lot of weight on sounding authentic here; it sounds like Klahr layers and juxtaposes new sounds for the joy of hearing them in new contexts, and that joy really comes across. We should count ourselves lucky that the latest bedroom pop artist approaches his smallest projects so studiously, managing to take the music seriously without doing the same for himself.  "}