{"label":" Rune Grammofon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13205/homepage_large.3dc44910.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Supersilent","title":"8","text":"  When Supersilent advertise that they record live in the studio or rather, when other people advertise it for them it's not a boast. Sure, rock bands who just let the tapes roll are doing something special, but that's because rock bands fuck up a lot, and because they want you to think those perfect hooks just came out of thin air, like a miracle. But in the world of jazz and improvised music, it's just another day at the studio. Supersilent don't make any great show of technique, and you'll have no problem believing that only four guys are making this music. And it's not about catching a moment, but arguing a fundamental point by presenting the music with as few sweeteners, as few distractions, and as little bullshit as possible. Norwegians are not great bullshitters. I've had Thanksgiving dinners with ScandinavianAmericans who enjoyed their meals in supersilence: small talk is a waste. And while it's true that Norway has plenty of raucous and goofy bands, Supersilent captures the graver side of the nation's character. Like their first seven albums, 8 has no song titles or liner notes. You'll never see them name a song \"Audio Virus Blues\" or \"Helge the Spaceman\". They never telegraph what they're doing before they sit down and do it. Yet even by Supersilent's austere standards, 8 is hard to latch onto: less rhythmic and frenetic than 13 or 4, more aggressive than 5, and the best proof yet that 6 the most accessible record in their catalog was an anomaly: its repeated motifs, engrossing textures and snatches of beauty were gimmes compared to this set, which is sludgy, irregular and unwavering, an electroacoustic behemoth lumbering beneath your house. (Be sure to listen to it with a good subwoofer: cram it into iPod earbuds and you'll miss half the story.) It's also one of their most satisfying records. A low level of tension keeps you on edge, even during the balladlike \"8.4\" or the serene close of \"8.5\", where Arve Henriksen's trumpet strokes the mellotron's forehead like a mother . On the drum kit, Jarle Vespestad obviously isn't here to keep time; instead he demonstrates, like Phil Selway on Kid A, that grim soundscapes are a smart drummer's playground. And producer and noisemaker Helge Sten, aka Deathprod whose name is the only corny thing about the band adds unidentified electronics and noisemakers, and one of his chief goals seems to be to make the hackles on your neck rise without your even noticing.  The balance between the four members remains unbreachable. At the close of \"8.3\", Storløkken's brash analog keyboard tries to organize the clatter and buzz from the other three, but it's hard to tell when he suggests a conclusion if anyone will follow his cue; and in \"8.6\", Henriksen's falsetto suggests monklike tranquility into the piece, but the other guys are having none of it: unlike 6's \"6.6\", where they let his voice reign idyllically, here he's cast aside like a man saying prayers in rush hour. Likewise, when they almost settle into a conventional groove on \"8.5\", you feel like it could end at any moment; Sten's fuzz guitar keeps them unsettled, until for a few transfixing moments it rears up and roars and then sinks again so subtly you can barely tell what you just heard.  There's no small talk, because small talk would be distracting, disingenous, and would cover up what's in their minds and hearts which is what 8 delivers, pared to its most honest form. Why waste a single breath?  "}