{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10697/homepage_large.9655c7f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Kim Hiorthøy","title":"My Last Day","text":" Like the his albumcover designs for the Rune Grammofon label, Kim Hiorthøy's music is simple, wellcrafted, and aesthetically pleasing. His visual art often deals in basic lines and solid colors, and My Last Day, his fourth fulllength for Smalltown Supersound, uses minimal beats, plain chords, and small melodic accents in primal combinations. Hiorthøy basically sketches with sound, adding and subtracting elements from his aural canvas before settling on a final mix of colors. But where Hiorthøy's design can be varied and unpredictable, tossing in unexpected ingredients, his music tends toward a monotony that weighs it down. Many of the songs on My Last Day stick to a narrow set of sounds, moods, and tempos. Even Hiorthøy's sketchist patterns become rote almost every song patiently juggles its parts so that for a while we hear just the beat, then just the beat and some piano, then some piano without the beat, and so forth. That trick becomes so overdone that one of the few songs not constructed that way, the metronomic \"Den Långa Berättelsen Om Stöv Och Vatten\", sounds refreshing in comparison. Still, if Hiorthøy only does one thing musically, he does it well. Even the most unsurprising tunes on My Last Day are tough to resist catchy, smooth, and doled out with enticing restraint. There's something alluring about the way the sparse melodies of \"Beats Mistake\" and \"Goodbye to Song\" avoid becoming allout hookfests, or the way the cooled chords on \"Skuggen\" and \"Wind of Failure\" paint ambiences without descending into New Age chill. But that mellow vibe also makes the album a bit too soundtrackready. It's not hard to imagine that, with just a few boardroom alterations, many of these cuts could garner advertising commissions. The only real curveball on My Last Day is its shortest track, the 71second \"Hon Ver Otydlig, Som En Gas\". With twangy stringplucks, breathy horn, and snapping percussion, it sounds like the kind of beatific interlude that might pop up on a midperiod Tom Waits record. It probably wouldn't make much sense for Hiorthøy to fill an entire album with such pieces, as melodic techno is clearly his forte. But a few more swerves down unbeaten paths might have helped the best tracks on My Last Day to rise higher, rather than water each other down. "}