{"label":" Bridge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1084/homepage_large.242c71fd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Milton Babbitt","title":"The Music of Milton Babbitt","text":" Mathematics and music have a partnership that spans the life, well, either if you're counting all sound as music. However, the physics and natural mathematical relationships in music can apply to a lot more than just the time it takes for you to hear a tree crashing. In fact, music theory is largely based on math principals developed by old Greek guys like Pythagoras, who most of us probably only ever heard about in math or physics class. Yes, I expect intervallic relationships and the origin of a major scale are probably old hat and yesterday's cup of tea for all of the dinner table intellectuals out there, and I won't bore you with my hilarious retrograde and inversion anecdote but I will let you in on a little secret: there's more to music than ancient Greek postulates. Bam!! Since I know you're still getting over that and not really taking this part of the sentence in, I'll start the real idea here; chiefly, music, you see, takes advantage of many scenarios that math and physics can explain, but not necessarily create. That part requires a human element, and in our case, it's a very good thing (as anyone unfortunate enough to sit through one of those PBS specials about symphony writing robots can attest). That said, some folks like American composer Milton Babbitt have done some pretty amazing things with music using theories previously best suited for the biochemistry lab (as distinct from Rob Mitchum doing the same thing with music reviews). Grab some popcorn and prepare for his tale of mystery and intrigue! (And math.) Babbitt was born in Philadelphia in 1916, son of a mathematician. He'd originally gone to college to study math himself, but soon switched to composition. However, doubtlessly influenced by a very numerically informed upbringing, he soon discovered the marvelous world of Arnold Schoenberg's 12tone music, a kind of beast that attempted to do away with the idea of traditional major and minor tonality and basically just get all out there with numbers, arrays and rows. The birth of the 12tone system meant the birth of atonal music as a viable mode of performance anyone questioning the relevance of this stuff might need to chuck their Sonic Youth records out the window. Anyway, Babbitt was fascinated by it so much that he not only applied its logic to notes, but also to rhythms and duration. Truly, he so crazy. Babbitt is also quite the music nerd (in the best possible sense) via his contributions to electronic music. Possibly due to the fact that his stuff was becoming too damn hard to play by actual people, Babbitt was attracted to the possibilities of the synthesizer and programmed music very early on. His Philomel (1964) is one of the pioneering works for tape and voice, and should be of interest to anyone who thought what The Beatles were doing on \"Tomorrow Never Knows\" or for that matter, what The Books are doing now was groundbreaking.The Music of Milton Babbitt doesn't really hit on the electronic stuff, but is a fine introduction for folks curious about his general modus operandi. The selections are all from his chamber music (i.e., small ensemble) repertoire, as well as one piece for organ. Of special interest to Babbitt fans is the inclusion of his recently completed \"Swan Song No. 1\", featuring flute, oboe, mandolin, guitar, violin and cello. This generally delicate (but hardly soothing) piece finds Babbitt's usual flair for angular \"melodic\" sequences and intimidating, complex rhythmic figures present. Still, newcomers with a penchant for following a zigzag path could probably spend a year chasing the jet trail left by just one of the instruments here. It's not chaos (Babbitt doubtlessly could give mad lectures on the structure of this thing) in fact, if you listen close enough, he has a curious tendency to repeat things; the violin mocks the flute, the cello hands the mandolin his part upside down. The important thing to remember about Babbitt (and many other atonal music composers) is that he isn't trying to scare you, but he might get a kick out of tricking you for a bit. \"Quatrains\" is a short episode for voice and two clarinets. Soprano Tony Arnold (it's a girl) is pretty famous for performances of modern classical works, and she's typically impressive here, singing what have been extremely challenging lines with impressive delicacy and accuracy. More than that, the piece itself is practically amicable, as Babbitt goes. Arnold sings of awaking from a dream as the clarinets scamper up, around and below her, perhaps imitating the butterflies she notices on her flowerpots. Allen Blustine's clarinet on the threepart \"My Ends Are My Beginnings\" exhibits just as much ease with flighty figures, but taken over the duration of the piece, more closely resemble the inner dialogue of a particularly stimulated intellectual rather than insects. Even though it might have been the result of a convoluted system of equations, I wonder if it isn't just as clear a picture of what's going on in old Babbitt's head. \"Soli e Duettini\" (1989) for two guitars proceeds with similar interplay as the clarinets on \"Quatrains\", but with a subtle flamenco aftertaste. Again, the performance is elegant, but the mood is hardly dainty. Babbitt's music often has a way of provoking conflicting emotions from listeners, and not just because it's atonal. His music never really comes out and tells you what to think, and because of its rather experimental origins, some people have a tough time making out anything but anything but a bunch of \"wrong\" notes. Still, Bridge has done a nice job of compiling pieces that are relatively easy on the ears, yet manage to reward anyone in need of a challenge especially with that cover art! Babbitt is one of our greatest living composers, so here's hoping his bandwagon gets a boost. "}