{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10700/homepage_large.2bf205e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Duran Duran","title":"Red Carpet Massacre","text":"  It was a pretty well kept secret, but a few years ago the original lineup of Duran Duran reunited. No, really, they even recorded an album, Astronaut. That might not ring a bell, but people still flocked to the band's shows in hopes of hearing its enviously huge cache of instantly recognizable hits. Among them, we may be able to count Timbaland, Justin Timberlake and Danja. The three play a major supporting some might suggest driving role on Duran Duran's album Red Carpet Massacre. It's a marketing dream, and in theory it's an inspired collaboration. After all, Duran Duran want nothing less than to be relevant in 2007, while Timbaland (and to a lesser extent, Timberlake) want nothing more than be relevant in 1987. (One dissenter turned out to be guitarist Andy Taylor, who jumped ship early into production.) Duran Duran have always known their way around rhythm, and while a disc of potential remix fodder might mean contemporary success on the Euro club scene, to hit the pop big leagues once again Duran Duran has to sell itself to a generation raised on hiphop and r&b. Yet while Timbaland, Timberlake, hell, even Danja are certified hit makers, no one the band included brings much to the table to work with on Red Carpet Massacre, which is uneven at best even compared to Duran Duran's long player legacy. \"The Valley\" is a convincing reintroduction to the band especially when that slap bass sneaks in under its pulse and the synths on the title track should ring a few bells. But the double time beat is all wrong for the group, a surface stab at something aggressive that comes off pale and halfhearted. Then things go really screwy. \"NiteRunner\" features both Timberlake and Timbaland, and in fact might have easily fit on the former's last record. Alas, Simon Le Bon was never much of a singer, and he struggles to carry the song just as the listener struggles to hear Timberlake's guide vocal (the same way you can strain to hear Prince preening beneath the surface of \"Manic Monday\"). It's doubly distracting that the song barely sounds like a band product at all. Truth be told, it probably would have worked better as a standalone track, stuck on a soundtrack perhaps. The Timberlake production \"Falling Down\", the album's first single, is a listless ballad that would have been better off given to Timber pal JC Chasez, since Duran Duran doesn't quite know what to do with its generic plod besides add one of the most unexciting guitar solos in recent memory over its draggy coda. It's an unfortunate lead to the disc's true turn to the lame with the boring acoustic jingle \"Box Full O Honey\", which aims for mystery and cinematic majesty but comes nowhere near either. Timbo's \"Skin Divers\" starts off like a pale rewrite of Britney's \"Gimme More\" but would have worked a lot better in the mold of one of Duran Duran's meatier classics rather than its thin, fauxpop incarnation. Timba track \"Zoom In\" is yet another reminder that the farther the superproducer veers from his strengths the less noteworthy his output becomes.  Duran Duran admirably strive to be contemporary with Red Carpet Massacre, but considering what they've cobbled together, it's hard to imagine anyone would be convinced by this wan culture grab. The problem isn't that Red Carpet Massacre pushes Duran Duran out of their comfort zone. The problem is that they sound just a little too comfortable there to make the most of bad situation.  "}