{"label":" Secret City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10707/homepage_large.c36b5a94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Patrick Watson","title":"Close to Paradise","text":"  Prior to last September, Patrick Watson was primarily known as the guy who christened his band with his own name not \"The Patrick Watson Band,\" mind you, just \"Patrick Watson.\" After the second annual Polaris Prize ceremony two months ago, Patrick Watson (the band, and the guy) became a perfect example of a victory gained through split votes. Close to Paradise, Watson's second album, emerged triumphant after the panel of Canadian critics failed to choose between the overwhelmingly better choices: Arcade Fire, Feist, the Besnard Lakes, Junior Boys, Julie Doiron, the Dears and Chad VanGaalen. While plenty of WTFing went down in the wake of Watson's win, a few listens to Paradise lend support to the album as a generic consensus pick. On his MySpace page, Watson lists among his influences Nick Drake, Jeff Buckley, Björk, John Coltrane, David Lynch, Claude Debussy, and Erik Satie.Yeah. Watson is certainly not one to underestimate his own potential, that's for sure, and he aims Paradise toward a sense of whimsical classicism. Yet, as could be predicted for a guy with such high artistic aspirations, Paradise employs baroque, delicate arrangements as representations of something bigger, leading to meander in place of grandeur,  and frequently unearned moments of bombast. It is sort of pretty, though, and mostly harmless. Also not hurting its push toward accord: Paradise is packed with all angles of de rigeur Canadian indie signifiers: bombast and skittishness, childlike wonderment and worldweariness.  Like a Disneyfied Michel Gondry, Watson is often preoccupied with the bewildering logic of what happens when we sleep, but only to the extent that he can extract a magical sense of fairytale escapism from it. \"Sleeping Beauty\" needs no explanation beyond its title, and on \"Slip into Your Skin\", Watson requests: \"Be the blanket for my bones\". The albumopening title track and \"Daydreamer\" begin with twinkling Peter Pan ambience, then fly out the window awash with wideeyed astonishment.The former segues into a languid haze of Gilmouresque fretslides and Watson's multitracked, puckish vocals. The latter opts for muted, evocative electronic flourishes and unimaginative requests, like \"Daydreamer/ Come to me now.\"Like his arrangements, Watson's sentiments are too often emotionally overwrought and underdeveloped, neither allowing the listener to actively fill in the gaps or fully release to the music.  Watson's singing voice has garnered frequent comparisons to Jeff Buckley, but let's not get carried away. Watson is a fine mimic of Buckley's sui generis quaver to an extent that can't be accidental; he even manages to wrench one pretty good song \"Luscious Life\" out of it. But there's much more to Grace than timbre alone, and Paradise lacks anything remotely close to romantic longing. Granted, this is not necessarily Watson's project here, and he shouldn't be faulted for not being androgynously sexy enough. Yet a proper comparison might be more instructive: the Frenchcafé vibe on \"Weight of the World\" and \"The Storm\"'s gentle acoustic lilt more appropriately cast Watson as a twirling seraphic troubadour, more Banhart than Buckley. Or perhaps Barrie, as in J.M. Perhaps that final comparison underscores the central failure of Paradise: Watson is guilty of a bit too much innocence.  "}