{"label":" Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10714/homepage_large.fe5c8b82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Daft Punk","title":"Alive 2007","text":"  The blitzing \"Pimp My Pyramid\" scheme. The pulsing honeycomb. The tiny metal heads bobbing up and down. The LiteBrite leather jacket reveal. The dude in front of me who wouldn't let a pair of crutches stop him from dancing as if the apocalypse were mere minutes away. The sensual explosion that was Daft Punk's Alive 2007 show is difficult to overstate or reproduce. Even with the biggest, flattest, sharpest HD setup, there's no way to sufficiently recreate the most exuberant LEDladen music blowout ever staged. So Daft Punk didn't even try: There will be no Alive 2007 DVD. Commenting on the decision, Daft Punk's Thomas Bangalter recently told Pitchfork, \"The thousands of clips on the internet are better to us than any DVD that could have been released.\" And, in many ways, the Alive tour is a perfect match for YouTube the ancient Egypt bywayof \"The Jetsons\" spectacle barrelling its way through shitty compression quality with blinding force. But still, even the most hectic web clip can't equal the French duo's visceral soundandvision assault, so the focus of Alive 2007 falls on the reason why Daft Punk were allowed to lug 11 tons of equipment around the world for the last 19 months in the first place: their music. Playing like a flawlessly sequenced and paced greatest hits album, this fullset Paris recording from June finds Bangalter and GuyManuel de HomemChristo connecting the booms among their three albums while officially cementing one of the year's most rewarding and welcomed comebacks. Lest we forget, before the outofnowhere debut of the nowiconic 3D triangle in April 2006, it seemed like Daft Punk lost the plot. The monster riffage and mindnumbing gloom of 2005's Human After All had our favorite partystarters turning downright nihilistic. And early screenings of their arthouse opus, Electroma, evoked (unfortunately accurate) comparisons to Vincent Gallo's ontheroad/oral sex epic Brown Bunny (except with endless scenes of hunkometal ennui filling in for the graphic oral sex). After the shattering pop breakthrough of 2001's Discovery, Daft Punk were going through an especially angsty adolescence their spitshined heads way up their own asses. But then, ampedup with enough electricity to illuminate a black hole, French house's masked men upstaged Madonna, previous electronic pioneers Depeche Mode, and (ironically) Kanye West at 2006's Coachella. And now, they're everywhere (except Gap ads, thankfully) getting sampled on no. 1 hiphop songs, filling magazine spreads, spawning worthy wouldbe successors and, of course, owning the internet (on Flickr, Daft Punk photos currently outnumber Justin Timberlake snaps 2:1). With a bounty of latent good will on their side thanks to the incredible replayability of their first two albums, Daft Punk finally gave fans a million flashing reasons to fall in love with them all over again.  One of the most remarkable aspects of Alive 2007 is how well it recontextualizes career nadir Human After All, turning previously leaden songs into ebullient rock'n'roll manifestos; injected with Homework's airtight Moroderstyle anthems or Discovery's flamboyant funk, Human After All tracks are constantly improved and born anew. The live set doesn't simply run through the hits, mindlessly segueing from one smash to another. Instead, wellworn favorites are glued together, cutup and mashed into pieces. The titular refrains of \"Television Rules the Nation\" and \"Around the World\" combine to form the globe's most dancefriendly TV station theme song before the Black Sabbath crunch of \"Television\" is sent down upon the impossibly buoyant \"Crescendolls\", resulting in the disc's most unlikelyyetspectacular roller coaster peak. Meanwhile, the creepy hiss of \"Steam Machine\" is atomized and given spaceage dynamics, turning it from a oddball bore into a fistpumping celebration of the industrial age. Wisely, the duo also know when to let the bass be, allowing large portions of unfuckwithable classics like \"Da Funk\" and \"Burnin'\" to work their magic with little robomeddling. Even without video, Alive 2007 is an exercise in exacting excess, from the blaring \"Robot Rock\" intro to a wideeyed powerbooster of a encore that layers \"One More Time\" atop \"Music Sounds Better With You\" a combination so \"holy shit\" ecstatic it would seem downright cocky if it wasn't so blissful.  Talking about the relationship between artist and audience, Bangalter told Paper, \"Robots don't make people feel like there's an idol on stage. It's more like a rave party where the DJ isn't important. We are two robots in this pyramid with this light show, but everything is [meant] for you to have fun and enjoy yourself.\" He's absolutely right about the \"have fun and enjoy yourself\" bit, but the Alive tour separated itself from the millions of DJ parties before it by drawing attention to a fixed point while incorporating everything from KISSesque pomp to Space Invaders retrofuture shock. The results were massive the myriad \"best show ever\" kudos deserved. And, just as they hold back their identities at every chance, it makes sense for Daft Punk to hold back the Alive visuals; when more and more mystery is constantly being sucked out of popular music thanks to the insatiable hunger for fresh product and uptothenanosecond information, the duo aren't about to release an imaginationstifling DVD filled with behindthescenes tour bus inanity. It's a noble choice, especially when the consolation prize happens to be the Ultimate Daft Punk Mixtape.  "}