{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10724/homepage_large.a4f166de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Brazil 70: After Tropicália – New Directions in Brazilian Music in the 1970s","text":"  In the grand scheme of Brazilian music, Tropicália was a tiny movement, centered on less than a dozen artists in one city and lasting only a couple of years. It only takes one pebble to send ripples across an entire pond, though, and that is the effect that Tropicália's brief flash had in Brazil in 1968 and 1969. There were many other styles of music developing in the country during that period many of them far more popular than Tropicália but none of them was as bold about smashing the familiar and the new together headon, throwing electric guitars, wahwah pedals, organs, fuzz boxes, and rock drumming in with avantgarde orchestration, samples, electronics, traditional Brazilian percussion, bossa nova rhythms, and a distinctly Brazilian sense of melody. Once the combination had been made, there was no going back, even though such innovations were initially resisted by many, including many musicians in the Brazilian Left, who theoretically were in the same general ideological corner, arrayed against the military government that took power in 1964 and held it until 1985 (the Socialists were generally nationalists as well, and saw the intrusion of nonBrazilian elements into the music as culturally suspect). Soul Jazz's Brazil 70 compilation is the sequel to 2005's Tropicália compilation, and it uses 19 tracks to give a general picture of the way Tropicália's influence permeated Brazilian popular music as the 1970s progressed. For all the junta's repression of the Left and overbearing censorship, it's remarkable how much fantastic, innovative, and subversive music was made in Brazil under its rule. There was no style we had in the U.S. that they didn't have in Brazil, and this disc necessarily ranges much more widely across artists and regions of the country for its tracks than the Tropicália volume did. By and large, the tracks chosen echo the musical melding of their influences, bringing distinctly Brazilian sounds together with American and British rock and soul to create interesting fusions.  Most of it fits into a couple of broad categories: MPB and Jovem Guarda. MPB (Musica Popular Brasileira) was the name given to much Brazilian popular music that didn't easily fit some preestablished label, while the Jovem Guarda (\"Young Wave\") was a type of pop music, also called iéié after the French yéyé, that first developed in 1965 and continued into the 70s. Jovem Guarda artists were frequently not accorded the same critical respect as their MPB, bossa nova, samba, sambarock, and other counterparts, but what they were doing was actually on the cutting edge of Brazilian pop, even if the easy accessibility of the music doesn't sound very forwardthinking today in its day, it was just intended to appeal to young people.  Several of the original Tropicálistas are in the mix here. Caetano Veloso, who returned to Brazil from selfimposed exile in 1972, gives us \"Joia\", a brief, minimalistic song that features little more than Veloso's layered vocals and AfroBrazilian percussion from Brazil's Northeast (the original Joia album cover, featuring Veloso, his wife and son nude on a beach was, of course, censored). While Veloso was heading back to the roots, his fellow Tropicália traveler Rita Lee, who had been a member of Os Mutantes, was going in the opposite direction her \"Corista De Rock\" is pretty straight early70s rock, complete with harmonized guitar solos.  A few other familiar names: Gilberto Gil's two songs veer from quicktempoed Carnaval pop to progfunk complete with oddmetered interjections; Gal Costa is in full funk mode on 1973's \"Pontos de Luz\"; and Tom Zé's \"Correio De Estacao Do Brás\", from 1978, is essentially postpunk with its odd, simple funk arrangement. The rest are names far less known to American audiences, but the music is just as fantastic.  Brazilian rock pioneer Raul Seixas, whose band Os Panteras was one of Bahia state's first rock groups in the early 60s, and to whom Veloso paid tribute in song on his 2001 album Noites do Norte, is here twice. His \"Mosca No Sopa\" is a perfect illustration of the principle underlying the compilation, placing passages of Brazilian choral vocals and percussion between sudden shifts into boogie rock and buzzing Moog hell. Seixas would later become a follower of English occultist's Aleister Crowley's teachings, and his attempts to create a Crowleyinspired alternative society in Minas Gerais ultimately lead to his expulsion from Brazil.  Erasmo Carlos was a key artist of the Jovem Guarda movement, which began on a TV show he cohosted. Here he balances a gentle acoustic guitar and vocal with loud barrelhouse piano and thumping percussion, not to mention lyrical references to Capoeira, a Brazilian martial art sometimes referred to as the dance of war. Carlos' albums from the late 60s and early 70s are definitely worth tracking down (the only Jovem Guarda musician who I think made better albums, Ronnie Von, isn't featured here). Jards Macale operated in a similar vein, but their contrast of hard kit drumming and electric bass with soft Brazilian tenor vocals and virtuoso acoustic guitar was even more pronounced.  The compilation opens with my favorite song by Brazil's greatest glamrock band, Secos e Molhados (the name means \"wet & dry goods\"), \"Amor\", which doesn't quite match up to what American and British glam rock fans might expect with its acoustic guitars, harmonica, jazzy chord progressions, and vocal harmonies. To get a sense of just how they fit into the glam rock picture, you have to see a photo of them in their makeup and wild costumes singer Ney Matogrosso, whose rich voice was so high he practically qualified as a countertenor, was one of Brazil's most flamboyant stars, a Bowie for the Southern Hemisphere.  It's wonderful to hear a disc that exposes so much of Brazilian music's variety in such a short span of time the blistering guitars and funky rhythms of the femalefronted Novos Baianos are miles removed from Ednardo e o Pessoal de Ceara's \"Ingazeiras\", an entirely acoustic song steeped in the legacy of bossa nova that features a thrilling orchestral arrangement. And yet, in spite of its range, the music is all wholly identifiable as Brazilian. There is a deep and mysterious element that rather deftly defies musicological description that makes music Brazilian, far more than geography itself defines the music. No matter how much avantgarde orchestration and distortion you cram into Alceu Valenca's \"Punhal De Prata\", it still exudes this quality.  And that's perhaps what this compilation illustrates better than anything else. To say that Brazil 70 isn't comprehensive is to miss the point you couldn't sum up the impact of Tropicália on Brazilian music with one disc any better than you could sum up the impact of \"Louie Louie\" on American music in one disc. This is a lot of very good Brazilian music that has always been exceedingly difficult to find in the U.S., and it lets people who'd like to know more dip their toes in, while providing a solid listen for anyone who just wants to visit for an hour. Either way, this is excellent music.  "}