{"label":" SeeThru Broadcasting","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13398/homepage_large.fc88e5ef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Enon","title":"Believo!","text":" You're not crazy, losing your memory, or drunk: There's already one review in our archives extolling the virtues of this album. This just in: It's still great. Thanks to its reissue on Touch & Go, the label that grants eternal life to scads of underappreciated records (and the long and present home to Enon), we have the chance to further flap our gums about why Enon are so great, and why this record remains a fine place to start.Believo! is a bit of a black sheep in Enon's catalog, even if they've never been a very predictable band. But the group that recorded this album frontman John Schmersal and former Skeleton Key members Rick Lee and Steve Calhoon were dispersed before they made it to a second record. Toko Yasuda and Matt Schulz would make up the trio on High Society and onward, and since then they've veered between taut, unpredictable modern rock and strange, moody synthpop from album to album, rarely stopping at any point in between.Schmersal had recorded lofi folk as John Stuart Mill, as well as some bedroom beats and hold music as Enon alone, while Lee was known for banging out rhythms on found objects, kitchen tools and junkyard scraps. Henceforth, Believo! has a lot goofy noises, which is almost always a plus. But Schmersal's songwriting smarts along with a pervasive atmosphere that's both humored and creepy glue this record together and keep it sounding fresh today.Perhaps part of the reason Believo! didn't initially get the fair shake it deserved was due to the long shadow of Brainiac, the fiercelybeloved cult act whose career was cut short by the accidental death of singer Timmy Taylor, for whom Schmersal played guitar. Taylor's most distinctive vocal trait was his elastic, nearly inhuman falsetto, and hearing a pretty similar vocal on opener \"Rubber Car\" likely brought Brainiac to many listener's minds. But closer listening reveals how different Enon were. \"Rubber Car\" itself was nearly electro in its lurching verses and layered keyboard gurgles. It was also far more pop than anything Schmersal had attempted with Taylor, taking the the harsh electronics of Brainiac's final EP, Electro Shock for President, to stranger and more accessible heights. A dose of detachment was key to helping Enon distinguish themselves, too: Brainiac were humans that wanted to be machines, while Enon mk.1 were more like robots approximating humans, with gloriously freaky results.So many albums fail when brand new bands attempt to try everything at once, rather than focus on what they do well. Believo! is one of the rare exceptions, where the group does everything they try pretty well. They let deep, mechanical bass loose in tracks like \"Rubber Car\" and \"Matters Gray\", and sneak in bludgeoning grungepop beneath the blips and bleeps of \"Conjugate the Verbs\". Portishead were a hip band to namecheck at the time, but few drew from their influence the way Enon did with \"Cruel\". Even if Schmersal's quivering falsetto far from Taylor's, it should be noted and the gossamer guitar effects were a little left of the mark, the result was positively unnerving.Elsewhere, collagelike sound experiments pop up in the title track and \"For the Sum of It\" without disrupting the songs' momentum, even adding to the latter's freewheeling charm. Centerpiece shouldabeen hit \"Come Into\" rolls like a squarewheeled wagon: Here, prewar moviehouse organ and acoustic strumming meets blackholeheavy guitars and weaving keyboards in the chorus, and not one element sounds out of place. The sweet, weightless hooks of \"Get the Letter Out\" are a slight hint of the direction Enon would later take, but then again, they'd never again record something quite so woozy and delirious as \"World in a Jar\". By the time Believo! ends with the negative creep of \"Elected\" and \"Biofeedback\", they've pulled off the fleshy rubber masks to glare at us with LED eyes.When I wrote earlier this year on Grass Geysers... Carbon Clouds, I called its songs \"radio and arenaready,\" but it wasn't some sort of sellout connotation rather that Enon should have been kings of the sandbox then, and I'm mystified why they still aren't. Why did their electrodabbling indie contemporaries get all the love? Even Radiohead have spent 10 years of their musical career toeing the line between man and machine, and they've never sounded like they were having this much fun. Maybe rereleasing this record will jog some shortterm memories out there, and serve as a reminder to fans that you can have it both ways, being mischeviously experimental and unrepentantly pop at the same time. More recent records make it clear that Enon have perfected a balance, but maybe Believo! is a more interesting record for lacking it. "}