{"label":" Razor & Tie","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1088/homepage_large.c398e4ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"This Bird Has Flown: A Tribute to the Beatles' Rubber Soul","text":" Is it possible that Rubber Soul really isn't that great of an album? I don't throw this eyecatcher out as mere inflammatory rabblerousing I'm not so perverse as that. But if you take a deep breath and really listen to the album, its brilliance is not so automatic, despite its importance to that transitional mid60s pop period so many critics get heart flutters over. A few perfect gems are present, of course, but you also get trite hippie crap like \"The Word\", and a whole lot of littleboyscorned misogyny, from blueballsinspired arson to murder threats over suspected infidelity. The artists of This Bird Has Flown may have found this out the hard way, giddily agreeing to take part in a Beatles cover project and then finding themselves trying to do something interesting with \"Think for Yourself\". Focusing on a single album, as this compilation does, might be a good way to get some of the Beatles' lessappreciated deep cuts renewed attention, but it also forces the exhumation of tracks that would be better left uncelebrated. Fortunately, some of the participants answer this challenge by refusing to be pious or reverent with the material. Handed Ringo's abysmal country tune \"What Goes On\", Sufjan Stevens scraps everything but the lyrics, instead opting to record a really good Sufjan Stevens song, arranged for the full Illinoisemaker band with choral interludes, diving strings, and a surprisingly gritty jam. \"I'm Looking Through You\" didn't need any work, but Ted Leo gives it a cosmetic kick anyhow, leaning hard on his beloved analog delay pedal until it almost becomes dub. And if you persist, you might even get me to admit that Ben Harper's reggaefied rendition of \"Michelle\"... isn't... terrible. Most of the other versions are strictly fundamentalist, with the artists backing off any significant changes to the original recording. For all I can hear, the Donnas didn't even rerecord the instruments on \"Drive My Car\", settling for a straight karaoke reading. Dar Williams and Yonder Mountain String Band do little but add superfluous instrumentation and twang to \"You Won't See Me\" and \"Think for Yourself\", respectively. Subtraction doesn't work much better, as Ben Lee cruelly strips \"In My Life\" of its harmonies, while Low leaves nothing but the harmonies intact on \"Nowhere Man\". Of course, changing things around doesn't guarantee success, as the Fiery Furnaces' muddy, mistaken, Dylanjoke take on \"Norwegian Wood\" proves. A Nellie McKay restyling of \"If I Needed Someone\" as loungejazz isn't awful, but the same treatment has been applied to Beatles tunes countless times, and probably shouldn't be tackled again postShatner. Most disappointing of all is the Cowboy Junkies genderswitching reclamation of \"Run for Your Life\" as in \"catch you with another woman, that's the end... little boy.\" Dear Bands: Do. Not. Ever. Do. This. So if This Bird Has Flown gets anything right about the original Rubber Soul, it's in the sense of perfectly replicating the progenitor's unevenness. There are four or five songs worth keeping from this compilation, eight you'll never want to hear more than once, and a couple that will potentially ruin the original versions for you for a while. Whether a better choice of source material (I know, 40th anniversary, but what is that, the cobalt anniversary?) or a better choice of interpreters would have changed this distribution is anyone's guess, but with both elements less than optimal, this bird's wings were clipped from the start. "}