{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10755/homepage_large.69e12dab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Pink Floyd","title":"Oh, By the Way","text":"  Let's start with the basic facts: Oh, By the Way is a limitededition 14album, 16xCD box set containing the entirety of Pink Floyd's studio album discography, immaculately repackaged as miniature LPs with gatefold covers and the original inner sleeves, stickers and posters where applicable. Also included are a special new poster designed by longtime Floydaffiliated cover art designer Storm Thorgerson commemorating the 40th anniversary of Pink Floyd's first LP The Piper at the Gates of Dawn, and a couple of \"Pink Floyd coasters\" which are included as collectors' items and therefore will never see the underside of a drinking glass, ever.  Depending on where you buy it, the whole thing retails for something in the neighborhood of $250$260 just over $15 a disc, which is a pretty fair price if you've ever wanted to own every Pink Floyd album ever in novelty fauxvinyl form. It's also one of the most superfluous pieces of collectors'market eBaybait I've ever heard of. There is no rarities disc, no concert material (aside from the live half of Ummagumma), no previously unreleased work, no interviews, no DVDs, no 5.1 audio, no historical liner notes and most significantly no remasters save the one you can already get on the recentlyreleased standalone 40th Anniversary Edition of Piper. Assuming you're like a lot of people and already own the latest, cleanest retailrelease pressings of every Pink Floyd record you'd ever want, Oh, By the Way will serve no purpose outside of a fanpleasing visual novelty; it practically exists to be looked at instead of listened to.  To be fair, at least twothirds of this box set is worth listening to for the umpteenth time, as the case probably is. That 4.0 is a mark against Oh, By the Way's pointless surfacegloss curio status and its unadventurous bythebooks version of canonization rather than an actual judgment of the music tucked inside. If you really need one of those, pretend that 4's an 8; Pink Floyd's first few phases the intial decade or so of their career still sound rewarding even as the band itself gets further entrenched in the cultural stasis of classic rock's hermeticallysealed nostalgia.  As the sole fulllength snapshot of the band's Syd Barrett era, The Piper at the Gates of Dawn neatly sums up what made their first incarnation great the balance of whimsy and discomfort, displayed in the band's ability to feel at home inhabiting both chartfriendly psychpop (\"Arnold Layne\"; \"See Emily Play\") and experimental spacerock sprawl (\"Astronomy Domine\"; \"Interstellar Overdrive\"). The remainder of the records from the 1960s and their first album of the 70s A Saucerful of Secrets, Music from the Film 'More', Ummagumma, and Atom Heart Mother reveal a band in continuous and restless transition, looking for their footing and a new identity after Barrett's departure. These records are Pink Floyd at their most aimless for every indelible moment like the slow creep towards screaming violence in Ummagumma's live version of \"Careful With That Axe, Eugene\" or their bid for Beach Boys teenagesymphony pop in Atom Heart Mother's \"Summer '68\", there's the tedious multipart suites that toy with experimentalism for its own sake, some goodstartnofinish soundtrack tidbits and that one Ummagumma track where Roger Waters made a bunch of silly animal and/or ranting Scotsman noises and slapped a big unwieldy 16word title on it.  And then there's the blockbuster stuff. With the exception of 1972's soundtrackfodder footnote Obscured By Clouds, everything here from 1971's Meddle through 1979's The Wall has become so ingrained in the rock consciousness, so frequently dissected and joked about and lumped in with the Eagles and Yes in the textbook entry for Reasons Punk Had to Happen, that it's easy to forget why Pink Floyd got so huge in the 70s. (I'll pause to let you construct your own pot joke.) That they released some of the most slicklyproduced and stylistically versatile music of its time simultaneously playing to the strengths of psychedelia, prog, and even r&b (ever play \"Echoes\" and Isaac Hayes' \"Walk on By\" backtoback?) probably didn't hurt their commercial prospects, but a significant portion of their work, The Dark Side of the Moon in particular, was wrapped up in Waters' obsessive search for some kind of human empathy, and in the midst of a culture filled with rampant posthippie egotripping and waning optimism that search rang true with a number of adolescents and college students and not just the ones of the 70s. Things do get shakier the further we get into the 80s and 90s: The Final Cut is draining if occasionally patiencerewarding, but the David Gilmourfronted records A Momentary Lapse of Reason and The Division Bell are cruisecontrol adultcontempo dross that sand off every edge the band had. Oh, By the Way doesn't do much to make a specific case for Pink Floyd as an artistic entity it just drops everything in your lap and asks you to sort through it. But the odds of anybody not having any of this and wanting it all seem kind of slim, something the 10,000copy run of this set probably anticipated. And with its sights aimed squarely on the diehard fans, putting the semicomplete works of Pink Floyd on the market without any real attempts to add the additional historical context or sonic refining that these fans would likely enjoy is as shameless as the insincere schmoozing of the \"Have a Cigar\" recordbiz schmucks the box's title quotes. "}