{"label":" Dust-to-Digital","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10750/homepage_large.a1cd5bfb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike McGonigal","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Melodii Tuvi: Throat Songs and Folk Tunes from Tuva","text":" Among the world's many musical what the fuck was THAT?! moments, few are quite so what the fuck as one's first exposure to Tuvan music. This stuff not only incorporates \"bent\" notes outside the Western scale, is sung in a foreign tongue, and includes creaky, arcane folk instrumentation, but also happens to actually sound like some sort of alien is singing it, a creature with at least two sets of vocal cords, maybe like the blue lady from The Fifth Element. The Tuvan throatsinging method which is scientifically explained in the accompanying CD booklet but I still don't really understand how they do it allows the singer to produce at least two distinct sounds at once. Take opener \"Reka Alash [Alash River]\", sung by Oorjak Hunashtaarool in the Sygyt style. The song is a cappella, and in the lyrics it compares the beauty of a woman to that of a mountain stream. The tune starts out in a low, Captain Beefheartish register, but then it goes simultaneously up and down, as if it were then sent through a sort of filter: First the voice sounds like synthesized oscillations, like an old school Pauline Oliveros electronic contraption, or a very broken theremin. Then the sounds separate clearly, into a rumbling drone at one end and this gorgeous, circular whistling type noise in the upper register. The whistling bit reminds me a lot of those elongated tubes I played with as a kid, the ones that are made of plastic and formed like a huge bendy straw, that make a highpitched whirl as you swing them satisfyingly about your head. (I can't for the life of me find the actual name for those things.) Other songs those sung in the Borbannaryr and Kargyraa methods achieve even deeper sounds, often registering comparisons to the croaking of bullfrogs. This is \"true folk music\" in that it was never intended to be performed, or recorded. Tuva, a tiny Russian republic located along the northwestern border of Mongolia, remains a very remote region. For centuries, the Tuvans, who descended from both Turkish and Mongol peoples, were nomadic. These songs were meant to herd cattle. Functionally similar to the \"hollerin'\" tradition of the American South and Midwest, the farmers created a sound that would carry as far as possible, rounding up any stray animals for feedtime (the Tuvans mostly herded goats, as I understand). It is a centuries' old tradition, and many of the lyrics tell of the gentle beauty of the landscape, the rivers and lakes and mountains. Melodii Tuvi consists of recordings made in the USSR in 1969 for a staterun folklife label. There are various styles of throat singing, all of which are included here, along with some excellent little instrumental folk tunes played on homemade stringed instruments that recall a simple guitar and a violin. There's also one mouth's harp song which again reminds the listener of a synthesizer, and an example of Tuvan folk song without the throat singing. These all help to give the disc a bit of lightness, to temper the intensity a bit, making it far easier to listen to the thing all the way through. As of this writing, DusttoDigital is one of those very rare labels that adventurous listeners should own everything on, without hesitation. As they've until recently focused on American folk idioms, I was a little surprised DtD had released a recording of this stuff, until I really examined it. Great care has gone to cleaning up the sound without erasing any of it. And the mastering is exceptional, the package beautifully designed and informative they make it all look so easy! In the past few years it has become easier to be exposed to throat singing, due in no small part to the Genghis Blues film. That movie follows Paul Pena, a blind American contemporary blues singer who became adept at the art of throatsinging just by listening to recordings, and (spoiler alert) in the film he travels to Tuva and wins a singing competition there. But this would seem to be \"the one to get,\" should you only want one recording of Tuvan music. It's a little melancholy and eerily beautiful, often sparse and meditative. You're probably not going to listen to it all day, but it's doubtful that when you do listen you'll be able to do much else. After all, music like this refuses to just sink into the background. "}