{"label":" Dust-to-Digital","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10751/homepage_large.f1a51b3a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Art of Field Recording, Vol. 1","text":" In the liner notes to DusttoDigital's new boxset, The Art of Field Recording, folklorist Art Rosenbaum talks up some of the perks inherent to field recording: In addition to allowing archivists to preserve songs and performances that bled over the (onetime) threeminute maximum for commercial sides (and to explore genres prison work songs, sea chantys, unaccompanied ballads that were once deemed too noncommercial to release for sale), field recording also allows folklorists to harness \"spoken narrative and social context that seldom found their way onto even the greatest commercial releases.\" In this sense, The Art of Field Recording works as an indispensable counterpoint to Harry Smith's Anthology of American Folk Music or Dust to Digital's flagship release, Goodbye, Babylon: Even if you've got a pretty good grip on how these songs worked in a recording studio, hearing them performed in the field in churches and homes, by nonprofessional musicians, complete with spoken asides, slips, yelps, groans is revelatory. All of the material included here was culled from field recording sessions conducted by Art Rosenbaum, an Athens, Geo.based artist and folklorist, who unlike some of his peers cultivated substantial relationships with his subjects, establishing a camaraderie that endured long after the tape recorder clicked off (Rosenbaum and his wife, Margo, also photographed and painted many of the musicians they recorded, and their artwork is included in the set's liner notes). The material spans a halfcentury plus one year 1956 through 2007 and is divided into four loose categories (an organizational tactic snatched, admittedly, from Harry Smith): Survey, Religious, Blues, and Instrumental/Dance. Most of these cuts were previously unavailable on CD, although the bulk of the material remains archived either in the Library of Congress, Indiana University's Archive of Traditional Music, or the University of Georgia's Media Archive.The Art of Field Recording is not only an essential resource for exploring early American forms and traditions, it also satisfies voyeuristic impulses. Spinning these discs feels like eavesdropping, or being granted exclusive access to 110 secret songs and performances. And, like any good secret, you'll have a hard time keeping it all to yourself: Sister Fleeta Mitchell (94 years old this year!) and Rev. Willie Mae Eberhard's whoops and twitters are so playful, so intoxicating and free that it's hard not to stop folks on the street the mailman, the UPS guy, a neighbor and slap headphones over their ears, grinning stupidly and expectantly. The duo's three tracks, taken from the songbooks of the Holiness and Pentecostal churches (\"Satan, Your Kingdom Must Come Down\", which opens Disc 1, plus \"Let Me Fly\" and \"I Am on the Battlefield for My Lord\" from Disc 2) are all highlights, offering up a spirited, beguiling mix of piano, vocals, and tambourine. \"Satan\" also serves as a delightfully apt opener for the entire box: Mitchell nods to Rosenbaum to start recording, and when he pauses, you can feel the tension crackle \"Start!\" Mitchell spits, aggravated, like a woman deep in labor being told not to push. Her whole body is ready to sing. Nathan Palmer's \"Blow, Gabriel\" (recorded at the Mt. Calvary Baptist Church in Eulonia, Geo., on January 1, 1982) is a stellar example of one of the most haunting American ringshouts (as Rosenbaum explains, ringshouts are \"the oldest extant AfricanAmerican performance form on the North American continent.\") Ringshouters shuffle their feet, moving counterclockwise to the rhythm of the leader, clapping their hands or pummeling the floor with a broomstick; here, Palmer's deep, easy hollers are offset by the basers' muddy responses, and the entire performance feels personal and guarded (ringshouts are very rarely performed outside of the Briar Patch community meaning even getting this close is a rare privilege). Although the folklorists lugging around tape recorders (and the performers carrying on ancient traditions) are worthy of much heralding, it's equally astounding how essential Lance Ledbetter's work at DusttoDigital has been to the preservation of traditional American folksong. It's easy to buy and appreciate these sets without realizing that the bulk of the material might have been lost or, at the very least, tethered to archives, readily accessible only to curious faculty, paperwriting students, and bespectacled researchers without Ledbetter's interference. The Art of Field Recording is gorgeously packaged, featuring one of Rosenbaum's paintings on the cover, and includes a thick, bookbound insert that annotates each of the songs, offering up context and precious information. Even when Art and Margo are, ostensibly, acting as silent observers, it is still possible to sense the Rosenbaums' presence, and some of the interviewheavy cuts (see Mary Heekin's rendition of \"Lord Randolph,\" from Disc 1) expose Art and Margo's investment in their work. The narrations included here can be as telling as the songs themselves. Accordingly, The Art of Field Recording is the kind of thing you will feel lucky to be allowed to own. Volume 2 can't land fast enough. "}