{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1089/homepage_large.3a5421b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"The Beatles","title":"The Capitol Albums, Vol. 2","text":" I admit it. I was a little harsh on these guys the first time around. It's not that I hate the Beatles. However, in 2006, after Paul has finally had his way with Let It Be, we've been given three helpings of Anthology leftovers, half the band is dead, Bob Spitz's recent thousandpage Beatles biography moves the band a step closer to trumping Jesus' wordcount, and it appears we're starting to run out of bands obviously ripping them off, I'm a little tired of them. I grew up on this stuff, mind you; countless hours of propping my head up in front of my mom's old record player listening to worn copies of Abbey Road and the White Album, dialing 1800BEATLES in the blind hope that someone would answer (and they did: it was a Beatles Convention hotline), drawing pictures of fake bands who just happened to have an acoustic phase in the mid60s. And I'm spent: the records are in my bones, so I'm rarely urged to play them. Thing is, for better or worse, the Beatles either invented or popularized almost every rock artist cliché. The notion of bands having separate and distinct creative phases, of band members having different (but essential) roles and personalities, of wives being the villains, of the solo record being an ego trip, of clean, linear emotional/musical/spiritual progression maybe it didn't take the Beatles to let journalists and fans indulge in their obsessive (and usually myopic) tendencies, but it sure helped. And now, as the environments they created have become the content of our pop culture historical fiction, they seem just a bit removed from reality. Indeed, even as they convert new fans every year, the Beatles are history not quite ancient, but decidedly of another era. Of course, I wouldn't relish explaining this to someone who might have been around while all of it was going down. I can only imagine the kind of emotional indentures this band must have made on American kids in 1964 and not just the fawning, screaming ones, but the ones watching culture bend and stretch before their eyes. Hell, even the jaded music critics writing about how the Beatles are history would never have been given the column space were it not for the old mania and fallout (such that now, rock = Stuff to Take Seriously). The early Capitol Beatles records are funny in the respect that for such a momentous happening, they were remarkably shrewdly (and many would argue, hastily) compiled and released. It didn't stop millions of people from falling in love; to see it happen would doubtlessly have been thrilling, but now we look at things with all kinds of distance. Capitol's second box set of LPs features all four (!) Beatles albums released in America in 1965: The Early Beatles, Beatles VI, Help!, and Rubber Soul. All of the records are presented in both mono and stereo, which should be an exciting prospect for fans accustomed to hearing only mono versions of most of the early Beatles songs though beware, apparently the first pressing of the box contains incorrect mono mixes of Beatles VI and Rubber Soul. Capitol is supposed have addressed this on pressings after the first run. Nevertheless, most of this stuff has never been on CD, and I probably don't need to convince any diehard fans to run out and hear it. The sound is uniformly good (despite the mono mastering demifiasco), and if you don't mind that many of the stereo mixes essentially amount to vocals on left, instruments on right, these remasters represent the clearest, cleanest versions of most of these songs. Also, if you're curious, the American records were actually mixed slightly differently than the UK ones (more echo on the vocals here, a false start there), so if some of the songs seem a little different, they are. Of course, this set is probably aimed squarely at collectors and the very nostalgic anyway, so no need to feel like a shamed Beatle fan for not buying it as soon as you see it.The Early Beatles contains songs that originally appeared on the EMI's Please Please Me from 1963, but resequenced and missing three tunes (of which \"I Saw Her Standing There\" is the most notable). This record was actually released a couple of years after the Beatles' American debut, Introducing...The Beatles, which had been put out by VeeJay Records. Capitol later acquired the rights to the band's catalog, and put this out in 1965. Given the hysteria at the time, I'm guessing many fans didn't care. It's hard to argue with 100% proof pop like \"Please Please Me\", \"Do You Want to Know a Secret?\", or \"P.S. I Love You\", though I've always thought it was weird that Ringo sung \"Boys\". Covers like \"Anna (Go to Him)\" and \"A Taste of Honey\" are more than serviceable, though the real attraction is John Lennon's famed larynx shredding take on \"Twist And Shout\".Beatles VI contains songs appearing elsewhere on the EMI albums Beatles For Sale and Help!. It's an odd mix of raucous covers (\"Kansas City\", \"Dizzy Miss Lizzie\", \"Bad Boy\") and more lowkey stuff forecasting their move into more sophisticated territory (\"Tell Me What You See\", the excellent \"Every Little Thing\"). This guarantees a schizophrenic album experience, though the quality of the new Beatles originals probably gave fans at the time an awful lot to be happy about. Nevertheless, VI (unbelievably, the band's sixth American LP in less than two years) lives up to many a Beatle fanatic's claim of being the band's worst Capitol album. As with the band's UK albums, Help! is where things start to get really interesting. Most fans claim this is because the band was starting to open up to folk music, drugs, and relishing their own eclecticism. Of course, the American version of Help! is made all the more bizarre by including some Ken Thornecomposed incidental music from the Beatles' second movie. So, in between such classics as \"Ticket to Ride\" and the title track, you get James Bond riffs, Hitchcock strings, and a sitarladen take on \"A Hard Day's Night\". God knows what fans thought at the time, though again, the new songs were such a leap beyond what the band was doing before, it's hard to see how anyone could have been disappointed. Recognizing the Beatles' shift in sound, Capitol emphasized the acoustic leanings of the band on its version of Rubber Soul. Leading off with \"I've Just Seen a Face\" (one of the great underrated McCartney tunes), and hitting most of the UK version of the record, the band served notice to anyone even halfway listening that they wouldn't be settling for moptop glory. I doubt I need to say much about the best parts of Rubber Soul; the resequencing isn't as brutal here as on other Capitol albums, though \"It's Only Love\" (originally on the UK Help!) doesn't quite fit the mood. So: Four decenttoreallygood records with great sound for which most people born after 1965 will have limited need. At the very least, I enjoy hearing these songs in a slightly different light than I'm accustomed, though I wonder how long the band and its various business partners will be able to count on fans' interest in almostasgoodasnew product. As I write this, the powers that be are said to be working on making their entire remastered catalog available via download, so perhaps the smart money is on the Beatles hanging around a while. "}