{"label":" Return to Sender","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1090/homepage_large.7adfa5d5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Chris Brokaw","title":"Wandering as Water","text":" One of the most overlooked gems of the past year, Chris Brokaw's second solo fulllength showcases the songwriter's commitment to dreamy Americana and stunning acoustic explorations. An installment in the German label Normal's exclusive Return to Sender series which among its 40+ titles includes limitededition LPs by U.S. Saucer, Townes van Zandt, Steve Wynn, and Barbara Manning the record is limited to 2,000 copies. I'd like to think it's the modest press run that's conspired to keep Wandering as Water a secret; more likely, though, the subtle tones of Brokaw's craft lack the bells needed to attract a critical catchphrase or youthmarket angle. Suffice to say: He oughta be a star. The original drummer for seminal NYC slowcore band Codeine, Brokaw cofounded Come with Thalia Zedek and played guitar for the Boston band until its demise. He's also played his sixstring with Steve Wynn and knocked out a beat for postBedhead rockers, The New Year. He currently handles guitar in Consonant with Clint Conley of Mission of Burma and collaborates with Evan \"Don't Call It a Comeback\" Dando. Despite the pedigree, Brokaw inhabits an unassuming, almost anonymous space with his quiet acoustic strums, warm voice, wordy vocal lines, and single foottapped tambourine. Like his previous allinstrumental Red Cities (2002), this largely vocal offering creeps along an unadorned path towards anachronistic purity, opening up and gathering detail with each repeated listen. Recorded live, it's breezy and intensely focused, and though at times the songs get awkward and seem ready to fall apart, Brokaw hems disparate sections together, allowing the overall passages to flow crisply into smooth resolutions. Somewhat backwards looking (in an especially effective way), these fifteen tracks include a spate of older material. The splintery, patient acoustic interpretations of Come's \"Shoot Me First\", \"Recidivist\" and \"German Song\" are gorgeous. \"My Idea\", a track he wrote with Lemonheads collaborator Tom Morgan that ended up on Dando's Baby I'm Bored, stands out as better enunciated and intoned than Dando's slacker version. Nearsacred covers of 60s troubadour Fred Neil's \"BaDiDa\" and Jorma Kaukonen's \"Embryonic Journey\" do what good covers should, pointing towards inspirations while offering an entrance into further, worthwhile listening. Of the nine new compositions, the prairie instrumentals are especially strong, each evoking a welldrawn visual sequence. \"La Playa\" and \"Calimoxcho\" tackle subtle rhythmic variations, evoking at times the pace of a silent but emphatic onestep across the damp hay of a darkened barn or a jangling horse ride through the night to a dozing loved one. Over its course, \"Dresden Promenade\" accrues the pathos of a badly attended Veteran's Day parade or a lonely prom's last dance. The album's closer, \"The Fields\", wrangles a distorted ambience, a frantic chase, countrynoir. Brokaw's slide and finger plucks should especially interest fans of M. Ward and, more so, John Fahey. Though the newly penned vocal works aren't as successful, there are standouts. \"Cranberries\" avoids its initial leanings towards \"Scarborough Fair\", lighting into a sleepless territory that breathes ramshackle blues into the patter of repetitious guitar outbursts. Likewise, the anger in \"My Confidante\" shifts to a transcendent chorus reminiscent of something Robert Pollard would've written for Bee Thousand: \"Staring hard and fast/ High on the overpass/ Spoken in our defense/ Spoken in confidence.\" Here, the tambourine picks up like a gust of wisteria, leading the song into a maze. Brokaw continuously dances nimbly through these sorts of unexpected shifts; his acuity with control and complexity creates a subtle, unspoken poetry. Though certain forms of purity are definitely boring, Brokaw's acknowledgement of tradition and his avoidance of the cloying histrionics of his younger, less storied peers, goes a long way to prove you needn't be a purpleprosespewing drama queen to convey passionate intensity. "}