{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10761/homepage_large.a23e6a51.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Sole and the Skyrider Band","title":"Sole and the Skyrider Band","text":"  Passionate and dense, Sole's brand of agithop underground casts political and social signifiers in personal upheaval, reiterating a simple concept across full albums: Life's tough, and the world's not any easier. MCs like Sole, Sage Francis, and (to cross label lines) ELP use albums like personal workbooks, sorting through quandaries in complex verse and academic esoterica. But what makes these rappers most interesting to some makes them most repellent to others. Continually pissing in the wind proves your consternation, certainly, but it also means you may ultimately be preaching to a shrinking choir while trying to pretend you're not soaking in your own fluids. It's magnetic only to those with similar polarities. Over his last four albums, ArizonaviaFranceviaCaliforniaviaMaine producer and rapper Sole has done a lot of pissing, but, thanks to extreme statements (\"The white man's the fucking devil/ I wanted to be black at age 13\") and tracks so rich they read like librettos, he's assembled a fervent if meager choir. Here, on his fifth album and first collaboration with textural Arizona trio Skyrider as Sole and the Skyrider Band, he huddles with his humble mass and gets ready to head for the exit. The 30yearold MC unites two realizations on these 13 tracks: The world is fucked, and there's not shit the anticon. crew he cofounded more than a decade ago can do about it. Thanks to the urgency of these proclamations and the craftiness of Skyrider who lend violin, banjo, glockenspiel and a dozen other instruments here it's his most consistently engaging album to date. If you know this niche at all, these lyrical themes will be familiar. Sole rails mostly against capitalism as it relates to complacency, dropping references to fake Che Guevaras and background music in shopping malls as mind control. He proclaims he's \"too Bakunin for your backpack rap,\" and that \"Living is easy with so many lousy architects.\" This is standard territory for Sole and, ironically, it's also his weak spot. Sole's acumen has long been clouded by poor editing, as he adulterates money shots with billows of secondrate images (\"volcanic ash on a strip mall\") and cracked references (\"I love words like Cortez loved the Mayans\"). He misses easy targets here, whether threatening to join a Death Cab for Cutie cover band (they're white, sensitive, and passé, and every fan that hears the slam will laugh at the line mostly for those reasons) or razing liberals sitting in the bathroom reading Harper's Magazine (Sole is a real revolutionary).  This time, though, the minutiae that irks Sole coalesces into swift apocalyptic visions, and these realizations delivered in long passages of hard, staccato syllables that leave him gasping, as if he's seeing six billion ghosts at once make Sole's problems with J.C. Penney's, Spencer's Gifts, and \"prefab teen spirit sucked through the coolest scenes\" suddenly more immediate and disconcerting. These qualms are part of a grand vision, and the diorama is falling apart: \"Up to my neck in confusion or is it lava?\" Sole wonders for the close of \"Sound of Head on Concrete\", in which he realizes words are too weak to fight back. \"The universe is shrinking,\" he promises on \"A Hundred Light Years and Running\", asking, \"How does it feel when your meteor is crashing?\" Sole's concern is contagious, and it's even more compelling because he knows this album or any album can't save us. When the world burns, as he prophesies, these albums will only be his \"etching in marble...although it's digital, it'll be all that remains. Just some songs that no one needs.\"  But Sole fancies himself a survivor, and he explains his existence away on closer \"Stupid Things Implode on Themselves\". He's already picked mice over men, and told his choir to \"Let the cockroaches sort it out.\" He's already predicted the apocalypse of suburbia and society sinking like a ship tossed by a sea of sin. Then, \"Everything went according to flames.... That ain't a pulse. That's Budweiser bubbling in the intestines still.\" But there's explicit hope tucked away here: For Sole, fire and smoke offer not only death but a chance at renewal, at reinvention. He knows his words are too weak to prevent what's happening \"Hard as I try, man, I can't change this\" but he hopes the exercise at least makes him strong enough to see what's on the other side.  "}