{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10757/homepage_large.382d9330.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 8: 1968","text":"  \"Ben, make sure to play 'Precious Lord, Take My Hand', in the meeting tonight. Play it real pretty.\" Those were the last words of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., spoken to musician Ben Branch in Memphis, around 6 p.m. on April 4, 1968. How strange that Dr. King's final words should have been about music a request for an old favorite, no less. King had seen better days than early 1968. He felt that the Civil Rights movement was drifting, if not coming unraveled, his advocacy for nonviolence increasingly drowned out by a bolder, louder Black Power movement. King's request wouldn't be fulfilled until five days later, when Mahalia Jackson sang \"Precious Lord, Take My Hand\" at his funeral. Riots began in dozens of American cities on the night of April 4 as news of King's assassination spread. In Detroit, which was still recovering from terrible rioting the year before, Motown founder Berry Gordy watched as the violence hit close to home for the second year in a row and he decided he'd had enough: He moved the company's business offices downtown to the Donovan Building and out of the cluster of houses on West Grand Boulevard they had occupied since 1959. All that remained in the old neighborhood was Studio A, aka the Snakepit, where most of the music that had propelled Motown into the very fabric of American life had been recorded.  Of all the black men in America in 1968, few were closer than Gordy to living in the promised land King had so famously and eloquently looked toward in the improvised closing of his final speech. His company competed on equal footing with the biggest, most established major labels, routinely sent singles up the pop and r&b charts, and had brought him considerable wealth. Though he scarcely lacked for confidence, I doubt Gordy could have envisioned himself in the position he found himself in when he put the first Tamla label on Marv Johnson's \"Come to Me\" in 1959.  As much as Motown had come to define Detroit in the eyes (and ears) of many Americans, Gordy had his sights set West; he'd opened an L.A. branch in the mid60s, which by this point was churning out about onefifth of his label's music, and he aspired to a multimedia presence that extended into film. Gordy took off for California fulltime in mid1968, a move so sudden that even Smokey Robinson, Gordy's longtime friend and one of his closest associates, was taken by surprise when it happened.  Between the company's move downtown and Gordy's flight to the Left Coast, many of Hitsville's veterans felt that the sense of community and singlemindedness that permeated Motown in its first nine years had died Herb Boyd quotes guitarist and Funk Brother Eddie Willis saying as much in his introductory essay to HipO Select's sixdisc Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 8: 1968 box.  For the music, the moves downtown and crosscountry initially meant little Motown's racially integrated house band was so good by that point they could've cut the backing for a #1 in their sleep. If anything, they were better than ever, and even the oldest hands in the band were taking their game to a new level bassist James Jamerson in particular does some astounding playing on these songs.  There were changes at hand, though. The departure of the HollandDozierHolland writing and production team in late 1967 had left a huge void (and spawned ugly lawsuits and countersuits), though the label would continue to release tracks they had left in the vault throughout 1968. There was no one at the label capable of filling that void, but Norman Whitfield and the husbandwife team of Nick Ashford and Valerie Simpson were able to pick up much of the slack. Aside from personnel shifts, though, it was simply impossible for Motown's musicians to ignore everything else that was going on in music and the world at the time.  James Brown's \"Say It Loud (I'm Black and I'm Proud)\" essentially erased the word \"negro\" from polite conversation, the Beatles spent the spring at an ashram overlooking the Ganges and much of the fall riding the sixminute \"Hey Jude\" up the pop chart, Sly & the Family Stone's \"Dance to the Music\" brought funk to more ears than anything before it, and it's hard to shake the feeling that maybe silly love songs aren't always going to cut it when you're watching reports on the Tet Offensive on CBS and your brother is in Vietnam. And so it was that a few of Motown's biggest hits in 1968 pointed in new directions: The Temptations took us on a gritty funk odyssey to \"Cloud Nine\", Marvin Gaye's harrowing, intense version of \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\" finally saw release after a year and a half in the can, and the Supremes topped the charts with the social commentary of \"Love Child\".  \"Love Child\" has a story behind it that only could have occurred at Motown: Gordy, anxious for the Supremes to have another No. 1 and hoping to iron out the wrinkles caused by HDH's departure, essentially ordered five of his songwriters to write a charttopper for the group, and put them in a hotel together to get it done. The Supremes were barely even in on the recording session Mary Wilson and Cindy Birdsong would find themselves on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" dressed as (rather tacky) tramps, miming to a song that went to No. 1 as ordered, knocking \"Hey Jude\" out of the top spot.  The Temptations were in transition in 1968 as well David Ruffin was out as primary lead singer midyear after proving unreliable one too many times. He was replaced with Dennis Edwards, who'd been a member of the bythen defunct Contours for a few minutes. Their first two 45s that year were marvels of sophisticated harmony soul, but when Edwards made his recorded debut with the group, it was with his gritty, worldbeaten lead on \"Cloud Nine\". The song still features a fair number of harmony vocals, but the members also trade off leads, and the instrumental backing hits like a ton of bricks, with stabbing wahwah guitar, funky drumming, and Jamerson's frantic bassline creating a groove different from anything Motown had previously done.  It was fitting that \"Cloud Nine\" hit near the end of the year, as it captured the zeitgeist of a turbulent period in American history. Most of Motown's other output that year was less concerned with the here and now. Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell continued to be presented on record as duet partners, despite the fact that Terrell was in the hospital with a terminal brain tumor. \"Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing\", produced by Ashford & Simpson, became one of their biggest and most enduring hits.  Gladys Knight & the Pips had found their groove at Motown the previous year with their version of \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", had a solid year, and the Miracles were as reliable as ever if you've followed this series this far, by now you've realized that Smokey Robinson had a truly singular way of writing a melody, whether the song was slow or fast. On \"Special Occasion\", he and the Miracles whose unique mix of male harmonies, with Claudette Robinson on top, was unique for the label's roster play a brilliant game of callandresponse as Robinson's vocal twists through an upanddown melody with breathtaking dexterity.  It was a mixed year for many of Motown's other longtenured acts. No group was more affected by the loss of HDH than the Four Tops, whose success had been built almost solely on the production team's genius for making dramatic tracks. The label reached into the existing LP catalog to make minor hits out of nonMotown covers recorded in 1967 \"If I Were a Carpenter\" and the Left Banke's \"Walk Away Renee\", both brilliantly interpreted by Levi Stubbs but the group would never quite repeat the success it had with HDH.  Other groups were winding down or moving on: The Monitors, who'd been a peripheral Hitsville act almost since the beginning, split (Monitor Richard Street wound up in the Temptations the following year). The Isley Brothers, who'd never been given proper attention at Motown, created a stone classic with \"Take Me in Your Arms (Rock Me a Little While)\" (an HDH production and a song that had originally been done by Kim Weston years before), but left at the end of the year to reactivate their own TNeck label; they hit big in their first postMotown try with the funk classic \"It's Your Thing\". Meanwhile, Martha & the Vandellas struggled to compete with the Supremes, who received far more attention, and the Spinners continued to be nearly ignored.  By 1968, Stevie Wonder, who'd been just 13 when he first came to Motown, was blossoming into a genuine savant; he was inching toward the producer's chair and starting to take more ownership of his work, cowriting all of his material and building his own style. \"For Once in My Life\" and \"ShooBeDooBeDooDaDay\" are masterful performances, but \"You Met Your Match\" is the true revelation on this set, a funky, confident song that features a gritty, virtuoso vocal performance. It also was Wonder's first entry in the producers' log he was 18 years old. Shorty Long was more than twice that age and had long been one of Motown's most consistent but least appreciated artists. His singles in 1968 included his own take on Pigmeat Markham's \"Here Comes the Judge\" routine, wherein he plays a judge comically doling out outlandish sentences to assorted miscreants history shows Markham's own contemporaneous version to be better and funnier, but Long's actually charted higher, and you can bet that the support of Motown's Soul subsidiary was a big part of that.  Of the label's new arrivals that year, Bobby Taylor & the Vancouvers, a multiracial band from the West Coast that featured a young Tommy Chong (yes, of Cheech & Chong) on guitar, paid the best early creative dividends. Their \"Does Your Mama Know About Me\" is a sublime soul ballad with fantastic backing harmonies and a great, swaying arrangement that still has the power to sweep a listener away. They didn't last long, though the Vancouvers wound up touring behind Chris Clark, whose bounding blueeyed soul burner \"Whisper You Love Me Boy\" is a highlight of this set, while Taylor stayed in Detroit, recording. It was Taylor who discovered the Jackson 5 and would go on to produce their early sessions the following year.  Though 1968 can be considered a transitional year in many ways for Motown, it was still a very good year for the music, and as with every previous volume of this series, it's brilliantly presented with tons of photos and information. It was a difficult year that saw further escalation in Vietnam, a sitting President decline to run for reelection, rioting across the U.S. and around the world, the assassinations of King and Robert Kennedy, the last gasp of segregationism in the form of George Wallace's presidential candidacy, the Biafran War, the invasion of Czechoslovakia by the Warsaw Pact nations Marvin Gaye claimed that that the only bright spot in his life in 1968 was the Detroit Tigers rallying from a 31 deficit to beat the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series.  But through all of this, and a whirlwind of personal and corporate change, the people of Motown managed to keep a hand on the rudder. In the final week of 1968, as the Apollo 8 mission was returning from the firstever manned orbit of the moon, Berry Gordy could look in the back of Billboard and see that five of his singles were in the Top 10, with \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", \"For Once in My Life\", and \"Love Child\" at 123. Look further down the chart to number 16, and you'll find YoungHolt Unlimited's \"Soulful Strut\", one of scores of hit singles that climbed the charts on the back of the Motown Sound in the late 60s after 10 years in business Motown was not only successful but hugely influential. If Gordy wasn't living in King's Promised Land, he was at least the man on the mountaintop, surveying it.  "}