{"label":" Rap-A-Lot","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10760/homepage_large.beab8344.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Scarface","title":"MADE","text":" Scarface has a Johnny Cashtype voice, the sort of grim guttural rasp that makes even his most banal lyrics seem like dusty pieces of hardearned wisdom. When he was his in his early twenties, he already sounded like a weathered old man, one who'd seen too much death in his life. Now that he's 37 and in the second decade of a storied career, his voice has gained even more grit and heft, and his lyrics, once hallucinatory bloodbaths, have evolved along with it. These days, even when he's indulging in nasty sextalk, every line carries the weight of divine certainty and past hardship. Face hasn't released a solo album of new material since 2002's The Fix, an epic about love and death in America's ghettos and a latecareer masterpiece. When he recorded that record, Scarface was president of Def Jam South, where he signed Ludacris, and he had at his disposal both Alist guestspots from the likes of JayZ and Nas and bluesier, more expansive beats than any he'd rapped on. Soon after its release though, he left Def Jam, and he's only occasionally dabbled in rapping since then, recording worthy albums with old crew the Geto Boys and new crew the Product and popping up for a few guest verses. Sometime last year, he announced that The Fix would be his last solo album, that he was sick of the music business. But now he's back with a new album on RapALot, the venerable Houston indie that first launched his career nearly 20 years ago. On \"Git Out My Face\", he explains his reasons for returning to rap, and they're predictably confrontational: \"This shit ain't go the planned, I'm caught in a cross/ And if I leave, they won't respect the South 'cause niggas soft/ Talking 'bout what's in they mouth, talking 'bout they cars and house/ That ain't what we about.\" After all these years, he still can't relinquish his messianic role.MADE is a decidedly minor album: Barely 40 minutes, it has no guest rappers and its beats are entirely from RapALot's house producers. But those beats slow and heavy melodic monsters laced with soulsamples and organblurts mesh beautifully and intuitively with Scarface's weary drawl. Over its ten songs, Scarface mostly treads familiar ground: harderthanthou streetrap boasts, intimate grownman relationship talk, wideangle societygonewrong laments. When he's talking hard, as on \"Big Dogg Status\", Scarface can be both thrilling and terrifying: \"He's a nerd, and they fuck nerds in jail I heard/ As a nigga, I came in here with my balls and word.\" He's also still a gifted technical rapper with a gift for unshowy but intricate and alliterative rhymes: \"I roll over roaches in Rovers with rims on 'em/ Sniffing out a rat, I expose him and then dome him.\" We've heard him say this stuff hundreds of times before, but his toughtalk gets more interesting as it gets more specific. \"Burn\", for instance, is a chilling murderballad, as Face explores the emptiness he feels immediately after killing someone: \"My hands got powderburns, I just murdered a man/ Took his life for nothing/ If you ask me, fuck it.\" His voice isn't the only thing he has in common with Johnny Cash. But MADE gains emotional force only when Scarface leaves that behind for the sincerity and vulnerability of a string of relationship songs. The Fix had a couple of truly touching love songs, but on MADE Scarface shows us the other side of romance, vividly documenting the end of a relationship on a couple of tracks. \"Go\" is a list of one man's grievances, moving through trivial gripes and macho posturing toward serious problems: \"You watch a nigga like I'm six years old/ How the fuck you think this shit gon' grow?\" On \"Girl You Know\" he rails against monogamy, sounding seriously pissed and fed up.  That sense of unrest remains when Scarface talks about subjects larger than himself. \"Boy Meets Girl\" is a symbolic narrative about the dangers of mixing heroin and cocaine disguised as a self destructive young couple's story. \"Who Do You Believe In\" is an incisive and confessional track about society's ills: the nihilism of poverty, the hypocrisy of political leaders, generational conflicts bred from misunderstandings. And all those societal concerns suddenly become concrete and personal on the final track, \"The Suicide Note\", a tortured rant about a friend who took his own life, a death Scarface evidently blames himself for: \"I hate to say it, but this one here been heavy on my conscience/ My nonchalantness just took a life over some nonsense.\" Coming from a slow, booming voice like Scarface's, that confusion sounds all the more poignant, and it's the thing that sticks with me the most about MADE. Scarface is a rap legend and an elder statesman, but on this album, he's got more questions than answers. MADE might be a small album, one that never musically ventures outside Scarface's comfort zone, but it's a heavily personal work from someone with a whole lot to say. If we're lucky, Scarface might have another few albums like this left in him. "}