{"label":" Burnt Brown Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10776/homepage_large.9a740f82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Speck Mountain","title":"Summer Above","text":"  Speck Mountain create music that inches along, with very little rhythm to propel it and only the barest vocals to direct it. The band identifies its music as spacey, and its name connotes both insignificance and magnitude. That name evokes the exploration of cold, thin air but the group's debut, Summer Above recorded in John McEntire's Soma Electronic Music Studios instead evokes water, floating along slowly and steadily on a gentle ebb, with perhaps more patience than the average listener will muster. \"Summer Above\" crawls along, with MarieClaire Balabanian's vocals barely breaking the surface and the vibraphone wafting in and out like flotsam caught in the tide. The song is discreet vocals over textured drone and guitar tone, which sets the template for the rest of the album. Call it drift rock. Speck Mountain might be compared to Low if they could muster any intensity in that drift, or Yo La Tengo if they could locate rhythm. Instead the music pulls them along gently, without variation, through the crisp guitar lines of \"Hey Moon\" and the halting bassline of \"Girl Out West\". \"Stockholm\" hangs on a thin metaphor: \"When you didn't show up in Stockholm,\" Balabanian sings, \"a fjord turned into a lake.\" She has the sense not to explain the imagery, but the repetition of that second phrase throughout the song drains the words of gravity instead of imbuing them with deeper meaning. They play Marco Polo on closer \"Chlorine Fields\", calling out to one another between lyrics that hazily recall poolside adolescence. It's an intriguing moment a true highlight with multiinstrumentalists Karl Briedrick and Kate Walsh musically executing lyrical concerns. As it proceeds, however, the song wanders into an eddy of electric piano and guitar distortion that disrupts the idyll but doesn't lead anywhere. In this sense, the musicians' instruments could be oars to fight or navigate these currents, but instead Speck Mountain simply drift. There's a certain appeal in this slowmotion procession, as well as a certain accomplishment in creating music that seems to move by forces outside itself. But overall, Summer Above makes for an often lovely, but largely dull record, as if the band has relinquished its creative agency in these songs.  "}