{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10772/homepage_large.90b3a545.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Meneguar","title":"Strangers in Our House","text":" In an unfortunate twist of fate, Meneguar are the kind of band doomed to be written about as \"(just) straightforward rock.\" If anything, the stylistic tics demonstrated by Meneguar are the same ones that initially separated indie rock from its \"straightforward\" cousin; the weird chord voicings, yelpy vocals, and insistent, fractured energy that permeate Strangers in Our House are arguably the things that kept indie rock from reaching a mainstream rock audience in the 1990s. Yes, there are no violins, kazoos, hurdy gurdys, or pseudotribalistic bongo jams here, but this is far from a simplistic record. Indeed, my biggest problem with Strangers in the House is that it's too high on tension and too short on release. There are always interesting undercurrents of dissonance, but they don't always fall into a pleasing (or even interesting) arc. Stopping short of the big, anthemic moments of likeminded bands such as Oxford Collapse and the Narrator, Meneguar prefer to trade entirely in tightwound unease. The band is more than capable of getting a lot done within this framework, but the relentlessness of Strangers sometimes dulls the impact of its best moments. Opener \"Scene 2\" is characteristically spare and skeletal, propelled by skittering energy and imbued with a palpable sense of melancholy. The blunt force of the band's debut I Was Born at Night has been pared down and spread out, placing more emphasis on their consistently engaging guitar and bass interplay. \"Bury a Flower\" is quite likely the best song on the record, building to a memorable outro that recalls early Modest Mouse. More so than any other song on Strangers, \"Bury a Flower\" proceeds in a way that is both memorable and interesting, encapsulating the band's approach without seeming rote or bythebooks. \"Freshman Thoughts\" exceeds \"Bury a Flower\" melodically if it doesn't quite match it structurally. Singer Jarvis Taverniere's high, unhinged vocals often land Meneguar in midperiod Polvo territory, minus that band's farreaching textural explorations and jarring dynamics. Indeed, the insong shift most frequently deployed by Meneguar is that from insistent unresolved spareness to insistent singsongy repetition. With fairly consistent arrangement and production, the nuances of the band's songs only really reveal themselves if you're paying close attention. The songs on Strangers in Our House don't necessarily stick with you, but that's part of their appeal; Meneguar make music that is necessarily anxious and ephemeral. Strangers isn't engineered for instant payoff, but it is full of the kind of unassuming intricacy that indie rock at large seems to have abandoned in favor of grander, more immediate gestures, so though it's probably not going to win any popularity contests, Strangers is a rewarding and deeply musical record. "}