{"label":" IAMSOUND","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10780/homepage_large.1c496404.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"The Black Ghosts","title":"Anyway You Choose to Give It EP","text":" You might suspect former Simian member Simon Lord's reeling from a nasty case of Fifth Beatle Syndrome right now. After leaving Simian, his former bandmates appended Mobile Disco to their name, becoming one of England's dance acts du jour in the process. However, Lord's played too big a posthumous hand in SMD's rise to prominence to be kicking himself too hard. You might recognize Lord's chirpy vocals from Simian's and SMD's two most respective successful singles the 2006 Justice remix \"We Are Your Friends\" and this year's \"I Believe\". Fittingly then that the Black Ghosts, comprised of Lord plus exWiseguys DJ Theo Keating, sound like a sugarcoated SMD, aiming to craft pop songs using dance music only as foundation. The duo's had their nose to the grindstone since forming, releasing several singles and remixes after recording this EP, so these four songs can't be taken any more seriously than an introductory handshake. That said, the EP gives an intriguing first impression. With no songs here reaching the fourminute mark, the duo works exclusively within the confines of the radiocompatible single, organizing verses, choruses, and hooks in the least complicated manner possible. The title track is the de facto single here and on it Lord airs some nagging relationship laundry his highpitched, almost rambling melody resembling a revved up sendoff of Hot Chip's more cool and collected Alexis Taylor. For my money though, the shorter, subtler \"I Want Nothing\" provides a more palatable take on girl troubles, its doomsdayalarm bassline better suiting the dark lyrics than \"Anyway\"'s happygolucky Balearic tendencies. The second pair of tracks feel like exercises in broadening the duo's artistic palette. \"Full Moon\" testdrives some world music tropes, namely flamenco guitar and backing vocals doused in Grand Canyonsized reverb, but as the least focused track on the EP it leaves a bland taste in the mouth. \"Something New\", on the other hand, takes a big risk copping the Steely Dan school of easylistening 70s rock, but the track's ultimately a success. Replicating the jazzysoundingbutnotrealjazz pop of contemporaries like Phoenix and Air, the song's better layered than the EP's more melodycentric material, and best attests to the duo's potential. Of course, what on one level appears as experimentation can be interpreted as an identity crisis on another. Lord and Keating have a wellexecuted pop record here, but they don't find any exceptional strengths they feel comfortable exploiting. At least not yet. Not to cheat, but after listening to their impressive single \"Some Way Through This\" alongside these four songs, you can tell the Black Ghosts have already outgrown these first tentative baby steps and that better things lie over the horizon. "}