{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1093/homepage_large.27b59b32.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Drabick","artist":"Bottle Rockets","title":"Blue Sky","text":" Let me start with a confession; for several years I was a cardcarrying No Depressionist. I didn't dress funny or drink Pabst Blue Ribbon (unless I was at the Empty Bottle, and only then because it was $1.00) or any other such affectation adopted by roots rock weirdos. But the Old 97s, Whiskeytown, Richard Buckner, et al., were the focus of my taste and time. If you're like me, then you consider 1997 to be \"The Year Y' allternative Broke.\" Between Too Far to Care, Stranger's Almanac and Devotion & Doubt in my CD changer rested 24 Hours a Day by The Bottle Rockets, which I considered to be one of the finest albums released in that heady year. The (let's face it, clockstoppingly ugly) boys from Festus, Missouri peaked on that wellwritten, witty and ridiculously catchy record. Brian Henneman's songwriting, of course, has always tended toward the obvious, but any simplemindedness seemed to belie the underlying smalltown tunefulness and universality of theme that songs such as \"1000 Dollar Car\" and \"When I Was Dumb\" made good on. The high points of their earlier records were almost always smarter than a cursory listen would indicate, and the great songs far outnumbered the mediocre ones for a short time. But even the casual observer could sense trouble in the late 90s, when the band released backtoback pedestrian efforts between 1999's \"Brand New Year\" and 2001's Bloodshotissued Songs of Sahm, an album's worth of Doug Sahm covers. Even the usually able production of Eric Ambel couldn't save the rote \"Year\", which sandwiched losers like \"The Bar's on Fire\" between alternate versions of the winning title track. And a covers record, no matter how worthy the subject, always speaks to the songwriting well running dry, which obviously Henneman's had. With all of this in mind, my optimism ran high that, after an extended layoff, the band could at least conjure the spirit of their earlier winning streak. How disappointing to find that, after an early highlight (\"Lucky Break\", which was done better as \"Welfare Music\" on The Brooklyn Side), \"Blue Sky\" descends into an utterly boring sloppy mess. Perhaps most tellingly, the album's only other worthy track, \"I Don't Wanna Go Back\", isn't written by Henneman at all. By the time Blue Sky slumps to \"Pretty Little Annie\", a somewhat disturbing tale of voyeuristic borderline pedophilia that lifts the riff from Sahm's \"She's About a Mover\" notefornote, I just get frustrated. What's happened here? I mean, I never expected experimentation or growth from these guys, but surely, a listenable record is not too much to ask for. Going through the motions is usually reserved for aging stars playing out the string for legions of fans eager for any new output from their old favorite, not a group hungrily clinging to a record contract and lugging gear from gig to gig to pay the bills. Put simply, Blue Sky is a heartbreaker, and not the Ryan Adams kind. As evidenced by any number of 90s hits compilations, nostalgia moves faster all the time; at least some basic recycling would have allowed me to reengage with their music the way I once did, and maybe even relive some of the better moments I've had while their music played out in the background. Blue Sky fails to even approximate that sound. Rather, it's their bleakest and most humbled record to date: They've lost all hope, and so have I. "}