{"label":" Babygrande","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10801/homepage_large.8bb4fd4d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan McGarvey","artist":"Hi-Tek","title":"Hi-Teknology 3: Underground","text":"  It's a thermal world we live in. Nobody in hiphop feels it more than the producers. Take the Hitmen. One year they're the inhouse beat welders for the most ambitious, successful double album in rap history for the biggest rap star in the world (Life After Death). He dies. And then for ten years they toil on mostly frigid, thirdtier, inhouse projects, until the dead artist's biggest fan and emulator (currently the most famous rapper alive) tapped them out of their cottaged obscurity to compose the lion's share of his \"nostalgia\" album (American Gangster). These are the cycles of sonic fashion. It's fleeting, the overcooked, McDonald'shot moment at the top (for his own sake, Lil Jon should start compiling scrap books from 2004). Alluring, too. Some never make it back: Scott Storch traded in his hardearned conscious sheepskins (as a long time Roots affiliate) for a burpedup Miami estate, a few neon Aston Martins, and the chance to work with Hulk Hogan's progeny. HiTek can't evaporate because he'll never boil. Having composed entire albums for Talib Kweli (2000's Reflection Eternal, a zenith for knitcap hiphop and literate boombap librarians), and chunks of ones for 50 Cent, Tek's not just assimilated a range of drums tones (from brushed tender to crashing digital hordes) and samples and song structures, he's the rare producer who can make liminal tracks; rarely will you ever hear a discrete \"club banger,\" \"street anthem,\" or \"for the ladies.\" His best songs are fencesitters, ones where one instrument is in direct emotional opposition to a trackmate. It's that blending that's made the HiTeknology series so consistent, refreshing and inclusive over three entries. Proof lies in the list of collaborators. 2001's HiTeknology was a sweet, Okayplayer field day, featuring a notyetMuslim, notyetborderline Mos Def, a confident, playful Talib Kweli, and (gasp!) a hit single (\"Round & Round\") that made it onto the How High soundtrack (double gasp!). 2006's The Chip, for my money the series standout, took the blinders off. The Game, Devin The Dude, Nas, J Dilla, Jadakiss, and Ghostface all emoted under 'Tek's always onpoint choices of strings, vocals, and his secret weapon: tender woodwinds.  Yet HiTeknology 3, released in late December 2007, is filled with too many concessions, too much adipose, and too much sonic (and career) charity. HiTek has brought a handful of regional artists (mostly from his native Ohio) to the relative big time and nary a one of them seems worth the plane fare. His impulses to be inclusive and helpful have sold him out. Oh, there's a song from Ghostface and Raekwon, \"My Piano\", and it's routinely fine with their Iceberg Slim narrative/Ginsberg wordplay: \"Brothers with swords/ Suede fronts, spray pumps, lobbies.\" But beyond that, the bulk of the album and the especially doughy middle is a bland, flat training ground. Not a voice cuts loose or leans into the emotional matches of the melodies. Only Atlanta native Rem Dog on \"I'm Back\" has any developed sense of assonance or voice, something Cross, Showtime, Push Montana, and Lep. Count can't summon on their respective turns.  Wading through the HiTeknology 3 desert ends in frustration too: the album's back end is actually good. As prescriptively good as a four song sequence can get. He revisits successful habits, planting Jonell (from the first HiTek's \"Round & Round\") on firstclass backpack romance, glockenspiels and swaddling guitars nesting around her whispers. Little Brother and Talib Kweli rap with home field advantage. \"Come Get It\" is a sleek instrumental antechamber.  It's a dangerous game HiTek is playing. Because the album's failures can be blamed on others, and because he's got a laudable excuse (Tryin' to save the game! The young'uns!) and because he's got enough innate production talent, 'Tek can swap in \"wellintentioned\" where the word \"tepid\" should go.  "}