{"label":" Rapster / !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1095/homepage_large.a5529f09.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Baby Blak","title":"Once You Go Blak","text":" The line between commercial and independent rap is drawn in the sand through a complex labyrinth of ideological choices, production styles and conceptual decisions. But in the case of rappers like Cormega, Saigon and Murs, the line is blurred by the conflict of their unapologetically accessible subject matter and the dedicated individuality missing from your average mixtape emcee. Baby Blak is one of the newest rappers to take on this often inconsistent paradigm with his debut Once You Go Blak, a pleasantly atypical mix of common vocal influences. Baby Blak doesn't break much ground on his first record: He raps about ill friendship, catching bad breaks in life, his various sexual partners, and childhood. But considering his more accessible style and his Philadelphia accent, you wouldn't necessarily expect songs about peace and economic structure. Blak's style is understated and subtle, with a constantly shifting flow and a lean towards repetition that seems to be a way of connecting the dots to other Philly artists (Beanie Sigel, Freeway, Black Thought). The only times the album's structure goes to the wayside is when Blak randomly and consistently references his dick or others'. Practically every song has a reference to the third leg with at least two songs containing vivid imagery regarding the subject at hand. Maybe it isn't as noticeable for other people, but I totally lost focus whenever a woodblock sound would follow up the reference, because if that sound is supposed to represent the performance of fellatio, it sounds like someone's doing it wrong. Either way, Baby Blak is impressive on the mic, especially on his antimaterialist anthem, \"Diamonds (Diemon)\". Riding what sounds like a smoothly chopped Final Fantasy sample, Blak details the diamondprocessing industry and the crimes committed to gain these emblems of success. He criticizes the distributors of these products (\"Jacob don't love us, Tito don't love us\") and attacks the diamondmining industry (\"Made into slaves, in the caves, working all night/ So you can brag on what you paid, rocking your ice\") in a creative stab at conscious lyricism, making for one of a few major standouts on the album. At first listen, Baby Blak comes off as the type of rapper that DJ Premier would gravitate toward. Depending on who you ask, that can be a compliment (Nas, Guru) or an insult (Group Home). Although the production on this record lacks big names or major shifts in style, the beatmakers ultimately keep this album afloat. There's an obvious tilt towards jazzy textures and ethereal chops, ranging from the lowtoned Rootsesque bass groove of \"Fallin' Down\", to the echoing organ, bongos and piano stabs of \"Tasters Choice\", to the anthemic orchestral chops of \"Starvin' Artist\". Sure, there's a definite lack of larger sounds and bombastic samples (especially for a rapper who could dominate the mixtape freestyle arena), but the production works to the positive side of the spectrum. Baby Blak has some derivative subject matter, a couple of dry beats and occasionally questionable lines, but overall, he largely defies expectations. For a rapper I'd expected would regularly contradict himself throughout his record, he never really does the true victory for any vaguely commercial emcee. For those in the market for an intriguing style of rap with chill beats and memorable lines, Baby Blak is a name to look into. "}