{"label":" Universal / Cash Money","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10826/homepage_large.35110027.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Lil Wayne","title":"The Leak EP","text":" Lil Wayne is a tease. Even though he's spent the past couple of years flooding the market with mixtapes, he hasn't released a proper solo album since Tha Carter 2 in 2005. Tha Carter 3, his longawaited followup, should've arrived months ago, but Wayne keeps pushing it back. He says he's keeping demand up by making us wait, while messageboard gadflies speculate that he just isn't cut out to make a classic fulllength album. Late in 2007, he said that he'd end the year with a compilation album called The Leak, clearing away all the best tracks that have trickled past the lax security at Cash Money's offices in preparation for the real thing. But The Leak never came; instead, we got a new solo album from Birdman, Wayne's shitty halfrapping father figure. And then, on Christmas, a new Lil Wayne EP hit online stores like iTunes and Amazon with zero fanfare, without even Wayne's face on the cover. The Leak EP is a meager offering: five songs, ranging in quality from absolute bangers to intriguing sketches, which tell us little about how The Carter 3 might eventually sound. One of the common critical complaints against Wayne is that he can rap but that he doesn't know how to make songs. His weededout freeassociative signature doesn't need to conform to old ideas about song structure to do its work; on last year's doublemixtape bonanza Da Drought 3, he mostly just followed his muse over every halfdecent recent beat he could find, letting the overblown boasts and batshit similes flow freely. He'd sacrifice none of his demonic magnetism if he just kept rapping at that level forever. But by the end of the year, he appeared to be losing steam; on the November mixtape The Drought Is Over, he busied himself playing around obnoxiously with TPain's autotuner effects, and the actual rapping was, by Wayne's high standards, exhausted and uninspired. So it's oddly reassuring to hear Wayne deign to finish a few actual songs, complete with verses and choruses and intros and everything. And even if every song on The Leak finds Wayne sticking to his usual talking points, finding even more clever and circuitous ways to let us know how fly he is, his voice has more urgency and determination than he's shown in recent months. And even at his laziest, he's still riveting. But first the great. Opener \"I'm Me\" starts with tinkling ominous piano and stray vocal samples from past Wayne hits (\"Go DJ\", \"Fireman\"). And when the titanically jittery drums kick in, the string of possessed oneliners that follows puts the song in the same league as those older ones. Some are perfectly succinct and elegantly constructed: \"I know the game is crazy, it's more crazy than it's ever been/ I'm married to that crazy bitch, call me Kevin Federline.\" Some are borderline nonsensical: \"I'm a monster, I tell you, monster Wayne/ I have just swallowed the key to the house of pain.\" But throughout, there's a strident sense of purpose in his gurgling croak of a voice, like he finally has something at stake. And the third track, \"Gossip\", brings that purpose into focus. The first time anyone heard it was when he did a fiery rendition of it at the BET Hip Hop Awards a few months ago, and it's rumored to be the response to 50 Cent's recent string of underhanded jabs against Wayne. Over the track's huge, epic choppedup soul and heartmonitor beeps, Wayne sounds genuinely heated: \"Stop analyzing, criticizing/ You should realize what I am and start epitomizing.\" The next three tracks never bring back that sense of breathless urgency, but all of them would've made for perfectly acceptable albumtracks on Tha Carter 2. \"Kush\" is a happy, stoned little dip into Wayne's immense supply of weedbased punchlines. \"Love Me or Hate Me\" starts Wayne breathing his nonsense over epic swelling strings, no drums in sight. When it kicks in, he brings a guttural sung chorus that works as a distant cousin to his immortal hook on Playaz Circle's \"Duffle Bag Boy\", but his boasts never cohere into anything concrete. And on \"Talkin' About It\", he brings an evilly assured singsong flow over a heavy organic bounce track. But those last three tracks are just practice. Or maybe they're victory laps after the apocalyptic openers. Either way, The Leak is an encouraging sign that Wayne's managed to keep himself sharp even after all the material he's already churned out in recent months. Now it's time for him to make good on its promise. "}