{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10839/homepage_large.01c6c2dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Black Mountain","title":"In the Future","text":" Black Mountain's accomplished selftitled debut found frontman Steve McBean synergizing numerous local Vancouver talents along with his own grab bag of music sensibilities. To further up the ante, the band made little effort to shroud their classic rock fanaticism. Whatever you wanna call them revivalists, reinterpreters, or even rock fundamentalists that first record provided an engaging snapshot of late 1960s/early 70s AOR. With that in mind, sophomore effort In the Future faces the challenge of holding our attention amidst all these Guitar Hero games and Led Zeppelin reunions without puffing itself up to the ridiculous levels of more mainstream retrostoners like Wolfmother and the Mars Volta. Thanks to the emergence of side projects Blood Meridian and Lightning Dust, the curtain's been lifted, and suddenly Black Mountain sounds more complicated and conflicted than the blearyeyed grin their debut flashed. The Debbie Downer pathos of Amber Webber, who until now had sounded like an afterthought on the band's recordings, spills over from her sobering Lightning Dust material, recorded with fellow Mountaineer Joshua Wells. Coupled with Blood Meridian exposing the bluesy id of bassist Matt Camirand, Black Mountain had no choice but to make room for these burgeoning personalities. While the debut grooved on a countercultural us v. them moral trip, Future raises the stakes considerably, leaving the band's musical talents to play catchup with their new material's epicsized dimensions. Simply juxtaposing Future opener \"Stormy High\" with the debut's first track \"Modern Music\" suggests that the band's more profound than playing Nintendo while high, but not entirely immune to \"J.R. Tokin'\" jokes. Starting with a lugubrious, \"Hell's Bells\"style arpeggio before launching into stonermetal chanty, McBean repeatedly belts the song's title as Wells's banshee howls in the background, foretelling McBean's lyric about \"witches on your trail.\" A fitting way to kick off the album, \"Stormy High\" gently eases the listener into Black Mountain's increasingly fantastical world. The eightminute \"Tyrants,\" on the other hand, sounds like a Middle Earth baptism by fire. With its sprawling sections and gauntlet of brainnumbing riffs, \"Tyrants\"'s best analog would probably be \"Don't Run Our Hearts Around.\" However, where the latter dims for hushed verses of traditional blues bellyaching, the former's eerie, calmer moments wrench the soul just as violently as the louder ax assaults.Future provides a wide spotlight, and McBean's much more willing here to pass the shine to Wells when she's better suited for the part. \"Queens Will Play\" essentially beefs up Lightning Dust's threadbare palette of organ and guitar, changing a simple church house hymn into a menacing cathedral dirge. She even gets to carry the torch to the finish line with closer \"Night Walks\", a dreamy ballad that offers spiritual replenishment after a mystically taxing hour of dense music. That's right, Future's hardly a smooth ride. Whether verified or not, drug use has always gone handinhand with these guys, but here they either smoked too much and lost focus on some of these winding minisagas or remained painfully sober and sacrificed much of their debut's mindfreeing vibe. Black Mountain's strategic sequencing of longtrack/shorttrack managed to keep listeners locked on, particularly for its dazzling first half. Future's valleys sag slightly lower, giving the listener less incentive to motor through this psych jungle. The sappy SpiderMan 3 soundtrack ballad \"Stay Free\" comes off the heels of the hohum \"Wucan\", a sixminute piece of alltoocanonized psychedelic sounds, and the nearly 17minute (!) \"Bright Lights\" finds the band's creativity running on fumes by its midway point. Fortunately, buried in this massive time capsule you find some succinct nuggets, particularly the Tom Pettyesque swagger of \"Angels\" and cryingintobeer lurch of \"Wild Wind\". Ultimately, Future can't compete with the classic rock divinity that's been worshipped in countless high school parking lots and shag carpeted basements for the last 40 years, but you gotta love them for trying. After all, in a time when four rock gods reuniting for a oneoff concert becomes the music story of the year, what can any of us mortals do? "}