{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10836/homepage_large.78d25118.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Four Songs by Arthur Russell","text":" Arthur Russell died of AIDS in 1992, but his legacy feels excitingly like a living, breathing thing. The Iowaborn producer and composer's music has enjoyed a muchdeserved renaissance in recent years, helped by a handful of reissues and compilations. The closest to comprehensive was Soul Jazz's The World of Arthur Russell in 2004, though as Andy Beta noted in his Pitchfork review, the disc's title was basically a typo. Classically trained on cello, a student of North Indian music while living at a Buddhist commune, Russell may be best known for making eccentric, oceanic downtown disco singles in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but his incomparable discography reveals a man of many \"worlds\": Minimalist avantgarde composer, sensitive, lowkey tunesmith, and androgynous, almost submarine vocalist. Russell's excursions into rock (with David Byrne and, as the Flying Hearts, with a former member of the Modern Lovers) and even hiphop (with Vin Diesel) further block attempts at tidy career synopsis. A bunch of cover versions last year shed new light on Russell's legacy, as seen through the eyes of a younger generation of admirers. A bittersweet, intimately jangling rendition of 2004 unreleasedsong compilation Calling Out of Context's \"You Can Make Me Feel Bad\" appeared on New Zealandbased Shocking Pinks' selftitled DFA debut, and former Everything But the Girl singer Tracey Thorn got saxophone help from the Rapture's Gabe Andruzzi for a slinky, squawking reading of the same compilation's \"Get Around to It\" (on her Ewan Pearsonproduced solo album, Out of the Woods). Most striking of all was a video  by La Blogotheque showing Swedish crooner and collagemaker Jens Lekman singing \"A Little Lost\" originally from 1994 Russell posthumous release Another Thought accompanying himself only on kalimba, or thumb piano. The clip eventually appeared as one of Pitchfork's \"Top 50 Music Videos of 2007\". Lekman's loving rendition didn't just set a high bar for his thenforthcoming master stroke, Night Falls Over Kortedala; it also paved the way for a Lekmancompiled Russell covers EP, Four Songs by Arthur Russell. As its title suggests, Four Songs puts the focus on Russell in his world as a songwriter. Russell was notorious for never finishing anything, so it's no surprise his raw yet unmistakable tunes and lyrics could benefit from new arrangements and production styles. While Four Songs lacks a bit of the experimental spirit found across Russell's work, for that same reason it should serve as an excellent introduction to new Russell initiates, some of whom might've been initially turned off by the alien tone koans of 1986's spellbinding World of Echo or the dated drum programming and synths of much of Calling Out of Context. What's left are damn you, Lekman four songs, each a transcendent expression of shared humanity, each hauntingly performed by four distinctive presentday artists.  A certain minimalism befitting Russell the composer is the defining attribute of the EP, right down to its brief running time; Lekman has called fulllength tribute albums \"boring\". First, Verity Susman of sadly nowdefunct Brighton, England band Electrelane steals the show under her Vera November pseudonym. She turns in a sevenminute version of \"Our Last Night Together\", originally a solo celloandvoice fragment from the sessions for 1986's World of Echo that was included as a bonus track on that album's 2004 reissue. Susman's flitting, doubletracked vocals give the melancholy lyrics an emotional reality only heightened by her bare, evocative piano playing (Lekman namechecks Satie).  The Concretes' former lead singer, Victoria Bergsman, in her current Taken By Trees guise, strips the upbeat postdisco of Calling Out of Context's \"Make 1, 2\" down to shambling acoustic guitar and a sighing clarinet, an approach predicting the Pink Moonlike starkness of her unjustly overlooked Taken By Trees debut, Open Field. \"Someone tried to call me up, but I don't even have a phone,\" she laments, wrapping herself in loneliness the way some women wear furs. Joel Gibb of acerbic Canadian indiepoppers the Hidden Cameras offers the EP's lushest, most optimistic moment, strumming Calling Out of Context highlight \"That's Us / Wild Combination\" on acoustic guitar, accompanied on backing vocals by El Perro Del Mar's Sarah Assbring and on piano by Lekman. Stripped of the original duet's echolalia and tinny beats, Gibb's earnestsounding voice makes what's most fundamental about the song the glowing, jellobrained joy of \"this, our love to see/ by its own light\" shine through. You know it would sound great with some cello, though.  Lekman gives us his kalimba version of Russell's immaculate love song \"A Little Lost\", and it's nearly as affecting here as in the video. Most remarkable is the way Lekman manages to get the kalimba to roll in, like the waves of the lyrics, helped by some overdubs and reversed effects. Like Morrissey and Stephin Merritt, to whom he's often aptly compared, Lekman is a crooner in basically the indie context, sometimes missing the unassailable vocal grain of oldtime crooners like Sinatra and Bing Crosby; still, his voice has rarely sounded better than it does here, pleasant Swedish accent and all.  \"It's so unfinished,\" Russell sang in the original \"A Little Lost\", atop amplified cello and just the simplest of guitar strums. \"It's all so unfinished,\" Lekman sings now. In contrast to the ossified historical status of so many classic and even punkrock icons, set in stone for perpetuity by received media narratives and museums like the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, Russell is a music legend whom most listeners still must discover for themselves a quasimythical figure whose significance his fans, musicians and nonmusicians alike, are still helping to define. With a documentary about Russell's life set to premiere early next month at the Berlin International Film Festival, the process may only be beginning.  "}