{"label":" Parlophone","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10847/homepage_large.9d800989.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Love Is All","title":"Mixed Up","text":"  What's that old saying friends don't let friends release remix albums? And yet even Love Is All a band whose songs sound like an airraid attack on the mindless consumerism and unnecessary noise that drowns out more substantial cultural and emotional discourse is not immune to cobbling together a stopgap release of recyclables. And in their case, the gap being filled is particularly wide. It's been three years since the signature tracks from their Nine Times That Same Song debut were first hyperlinked across the blogosphere, and it wouldn't be unreasonable to say that the window to give them a remixed afterlife on the dancefloor has long since closed. But it appears Love Is All Mixed Up was not inspired by dreams of a clubland crossover. As the band admits on its MySpace blog, the source material comprises songs \"that we honestly were beginning to grow a little tired of,\" and so the act of reimagning (or in some cases, savaging) their repertoire would seemingly endear them more to the idea of having to perform \"the hits\" for the rest of their career. Besides, it's not as if Love Is All required any more dancefloor traction: The strobelit sensory assault of \"Busy Doing Nothing\" and \"Talk Talk Talk Talk\" get that job done just fine. But for a band that so often sings about music itself, as both a liberating (\"Spinning and Scratching\") and distracting (\"Turn the Radio Off\") force, the remix album presents an opportunity to reposition Love Is All's songwriting into the pop realm they seem so conflicted about.Mixed Up makes guinea pigs out of five Love Is All tracks, so maybe a better title would be Two Times That Same Song: Four of those songs (\"Felt Tip\", \"Make Out Fall Out Make Up\", \"Busy Doing Nothing\", and \"Turn the Radio Off\") receive the twiceover treatment, with an alternate \"Spinning and Scratching\" thrown in if just to keep the band's ninesong theme running.  Not surprisingly, the band's more melancholy material produces this record's most inspired reworkings. Londonbased Ben Garrett (aka frYars) outfits the humbly triumphant lullaby \"Felt Tip\" with a laptoppop transformation, coloring in the original's grayscale backdrop with kaleidoscopic synth loops. Garrett also downplays Love Is All's most distinctive characteristic Josephine Olausson's glassshattering voice in order to claim the lead vocal for himself, playing out the fantasy of every bedroombound recluse who's wanted to live inside their record collection. (Interestingly, frYars effectively shows up marquee remixers Hot Chip, who take a similarly futurist if ultimately less affecting approach to the same tune.) That feeling of euphoric escapism carries over to Maps' overhaul of \"Turn the Radio Off\", where a swelling intro that recalls Underworld's massive 1995 techno hit \"Born Slippy\" explodes into an orgiastic techhouse rush, recasting the song's centerpiece lyric (\"hey world, I've had enough\") from a statement of resignation to one of resolve. But these hardly constitute the disc's most radical reinventions: Metronomic completely discards the maniacal skapunk blitzkrieg of \"Spinning and Scratching\" to reclaim the song as the early80s Bboy rap its title demands, with the song's \"clap your hands\" refrain turned into a Kurtis Blow directive. Love Is All's more danceable songs result in more typical remixes: Scottish DJ titans Optimo give \"Busy Doing Nothing\" a decidedly LCDlike buildup, gradually layering a sinister bass pulse with triggered tambourine rattles, handclaps, and samples of the song's staccato riffs and chanted chorus, but it's hardly a bold revision. Tapedeck subjects the same song to a more extreme electro/disco deconstruction, although the offbeat vocal samples give the impression of random mixingboard level tweaking. Of course, even this seems more considered than the Bees' prankster version of \"Make Out Fall Out Make Up\", which simply sets a loop of Olausson yelping the chorus line to a slack Hammondorgan Afrofunk jam, if only to contrast her screaming petulance against the band's nonchalant groove. It's amusing at first, but with the joke having run its course 90 seconds in, the Bees have nothing left to do but to accelerate the track into an anticlimactic, brassslathered breakdown. Coincidentally, British acidhouse dons Chicken Lips use the exact same vocal sample as the basis for their own \"malfunction\" of \"Make Out Fall Out\", but instead of a running gag, here it works as a suitably disorienting entry point to a masterful eightminute Italodisco workout that repositions the song's tale of morningafter regret back onto the crowded peakhour dancefloor where its fateful onestand likely originated. And though remix albums are subject to random sequencing by nature, the Chicken Lips track is smartly followed by the Studio's 10minute comedown take on \"Turn the Radio Off\", which stretches the core melody out into a trippy, tropical odyssey redolent of mid70s Can. On their own, these two extended plays are enough to tilt Mixed Up's hittouseless ratio toward the favorable side. But the collection's success will truly be measured in a few months, when Love Is All release their second studio album because then we'll know for sure if Mixed Up's rhythmic reinventions have inspired the band to rethink their defiantly lofi aesthetic, or if it all just amounts to another nine times with the same songs.  "}