{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10849/homepage_large.ff5107b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Aloha","title":"Light Works","text":"  Aloha's history is geographic distance (the members spread across the eastern half of the country) bridged by sporadic meetups to record best illustrated by  this photo: the four members sitting next to one another in an airport terminal, carryon luggage at their feet. On the far right T.J. Lipple, with headphones on, taps away at a MacBook. When the members of Aloha get to the studio, they treat it like a hotel, as well; milking it for all its amenities, and possibly sleeping there while tweaking their music to ensure a sound that reflects the mutually loved labor of a group of session musicians.  From their initial EPs through the two LPs that first gained them notice, Aloha's music has certainly always sounded good. Rich with dense textures and nontraditional arrangements and instrumentation (vibraphone, mellotron), their music rewards a good set of headphones and a preference for refined, at times pristine architecture. The miniLP Light Works continues that tradition, but removes the quasiprog ornamentation and offers a disrobed version of the essential stuff that's always been at the core of Aloha's compositions: heartonsleeve indie built from acoustic guitar and piano. In the past, with vibraphone, sustained organ tones, and staggered drumming poking at Tony Cavallario's eerily calm vocals, Aloha built their reputation on radiating breezy calmness amidst palpable disquiet. There's much less decor on Light Works, but still a palpable pushpull between composure and consternation, Cavallario's lyrics gaining weight via a cavernous mix and the subtle instrumental shadings of Lipple, the band's notsosecret weapon. On \"Body Buzz\", Cavallario reconnects with a longlost and apparently unstable acquaintance, and comes to terms with what's happened in the interim. \"Gold World\" is less fraught, but still colored by the anxiety that comes with anticipating some sort of companionship.  Much of Light Works is influenced by faith, and at times, even piousness, with \"Passengers\" offering a delicate admonition that sums up the emotional as well as musical content of the record: \"too much of anything is wrong.\" The two best songs here directly address the perceived work of an almighty, and the serenity in these moments comes across as an eerie sign of existential acquiescence. The quick, meticulous picking on \"Trick Spring\" evokes a timelapse view of a seasonal flower blooming, and the song periodically opens up to ethereal chants and church organ, as Cavallario marvels at the perceived work of his creator. \"The End\", with its instantly appealing melody, is much more direct: \"The devil may deliver me an easy time/ There's riches I'll deny or oblige/ When I'm leaving.\" Perhaps to those who share Cavallario's epistemological framework, this might offer comfort. Personally, I find it yet another form of disquiet from a band known for eliciting unease gentle compliance with unseen forces shakes out for me as unnerving but one I thus find hard to fully engage. I don't feel Cavallario is critical enough here, and while it warms his own heart, it leaves me a bit cold.  While Ben Gibbard doesn't typically trade in songs about metaphysical destinations, the most ready comparison for Light Works is Death Cab for Cutie's Transatlanticism another pretty and precious record about the emotions that arise between arrivals, real and imagined. Yet despite the music's residual elegance, there's not a lot else to recommend returning to it. Similar to the songs about higher powers, Aloha seems to work better if they work more on the musical edge instead of in the middle. Given this context, the record title seems appropriate, though: With a couple of exceptions, much of Light Works simply wants to float away.  "}