{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10842/homepage_large.0bdbd4ba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Brit Box: U.K. Indie, Shoegaze and Brit-Pop Gems of the Last Millennium","text":" Starting with the British Invasion, and through the next roughly 20 years, it would be difficult to argue that although the roots of rock are 100% American they weren't perfected, prodded, and pushed along by the Brits. From the Beatles, Stones, and Who in the early 1960s, through the the hard rock of Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd and psych and prog, the artpop of Bowie and Roxy Music, the glammy stomp of T. Rex, the fertile, fastmoving worlds of UK punk and postpunk, its cousins such as electronic and industrial music, New Pop, and synthpop, the gothic gloom of the Cure and Echo & the Bunnymen, through the roots of indie in Orange Juice and the Smiths. Rhino's new box set, The Brit Box: U.K. Indie, Shoegaze and BritPop Gems of the Last Millennium, picks up at almost the exact moment that incredible run of pioneering, templatecrushing music finished. By 1986, a few years of runofthemill guitar rock had left the UK music press scrambling for new ideas. As a result, writers at publications such as Melody Maker fought a brief war over where to plant their flags, with camps divided between the ascendant hiphop and the regressive, relatively handmade sounds of C86. Before long, acid house would briefly leave each in the dust, shifting the UK pop landscape in ways not seen since punk. One result was that, in the UK in particular, in the years covered by The Brit Box, progressiveness would cease to be the domain of rock. Eventually, cultivating/stripmining the past became the rule rather than the exception. It was still a massively creative time for the UK, and 1986 was roughly the time that the word indie began to take shape and take on meaning. (In the U.S., throughout the 80s, most of what we'd now call \"indie rock\" was still either punk or college rock.) Yet why the disc starts in 1986 is anyone's guess. Were a survey of UK indie to begin with the Smiths, one would think it would be a track from three years earlier the debut single \"Hand in Glove\" or \"This Charming Man\", the track whose seminal \"Top of the Pops\" performance helped launch the band. More likely, it kicks off here because this set has a bit of a touristic, removed feel to it, reading less like a history of UK indie and more like that world as seen through the eyes of an American Anglophile. To wit, the lengthy booklet includes an essay about a DJ whose work promoted the best of UK indie. The late John Peel? Hell, no: Rodney from L.A.'s KROQ.  And after a catchall beginning, the set then cherrypicks a few sounds shoegaze and Britpop, in particular that, largely through MTV's \"120 Minutes\" and the Anglophiliac radio of 80s college stations and KROQ, made inroads into the U.S. indie consciousness. Unlike most every Rhino box, then, this isn't a wartsandall document of a scene as it happened, but a wartsandall document of a scene as it was viewed from thousands of miles away, a nostalgia trip not for a large portion of kids but for the compiler himself.  The first disc contains a ton of great music, but it's also a lot of great music you likely already own. The Smiths, Echo & the Bunnymen, the Cure, the Stone Roses, Jesus & Mary Chain, Cocteau Twins, and Happy Mondays have been staples for decades, as have singles like the La's \"There She Goes\" and the Primitves' \"Crash\". For UK indie novices, this is a good way to get to know Felt and Spacemen 3, while C86ers the Shop Assistants and the pleasantly included Trash Can Sinatras are the closest things here to lost gems. Sadly, bands like the Field Mice, House of Love, Kitchens of Distinction, AR Kane, the Razorcuts, and Talulah Gosh are left out, but on the whole it's hard to quibble with the selections.  Discs 2 and 3, then, focus on specific moments or movements shoegaze and Britpop with not enough thought given to quality control. Shoegaze was a guitar bands' way of interfacing with the sonic possibilities and experimentation opened by acid house, and while it provided a number of excellent to epochal groups, the quality here veers wildly, suggesting that an entire disc of the stuff wasn't needed. (One note: Slowdive must not have allowed themselves to be compiled it's the only explanation for their absence.) In the hands of the best shoegazers, however, guitar virtuosity and the exploration of sheer volume or noise was grafted onto the pop song, and crucial to it getting traction in indie circles, it wasn’t dance music it was the complete opposite, as its name suggested.  Between shoegaze and Britpop, of course, came grunge, which facilitated the latter and, as much as it \"killed\" hair metal, also kept UK indiedance on the fringe in the U.S. (If you recall, up to \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\", Madchester and baggy groups were \"120 Minutes\" staples.) Disc 3, however, starts by playing a bit of catchup with the UK indie bands competing with Nirvana and the like, including a belated appearance by New Order and a welcome ones by Swervedriver, the Boo Radleys, Stereolab, and Saint Etienne, who were among the first groups to restore the supposedly British qualities of wit, style, and artifice to pop music. The other groups first huddled under the banner of a Britcentric revolution (Blur, Pulp, Denim, and the Auteurs neither of those last two are included here), as well as many of those in the initial rush of Britpop fever (Oasis, Elastica, Supergrass) comprised a diverse scene rooted in crisp, smart pop songs that emphasized UK artschool traditions. Within 18 months, however, Britpop devolved into just another version of the dour classic/arena rock retread it was meant to oppose in the first place. Cocaine didn't help, but Oasis' dominance was probably to blame most of all.  Despite the presence of Kula Shaker and Ocean Colour Scene, most of the dregs of postOasis dadrock are thankfully left out of the set there are no places for Northern Uproar, 60 ft. Dolls, and the like, and Cast are represented by their most \"pop\" moment. Instead, kudos for the compilers for digging into Britpop and its antecedents; no matter what one thinks of the quality of Sleeper, Ash, Dodgy, the Bluetones, or Babybird, they at least fit the tone and tenor of the set. Disc 4 is also home to rewarding outliers such as Super Furry Animals, Mansun, the Divine Comedy, Spiritualized, the Verve, and Cornershop.  The longterm damage that Britpop did to both UK indie and its press is on full display on Disc 4. The healthy alternative once provided by UK indie regrouped in the late 90s, but that groundlevel reorganization is absent here. Rather than finding room for deadends such as Hurricane #1, Gay Dad, or Catatonia, it would have been nice to retreat from the charthopeful and the NMEloved to make room for artists such as Belle and Sebastian, the Beta Band, Mogwai, Gorky's Zygotic Mynci, Plone, or Broadcast groups that rejected the inwardlooking Londoncentrism, English nationalism, and 60s humping of Britpop by exploring more traditional indie roots and asserting their own regional identities.  Of course that would have been a bit of a lie these groups wound up being dead ends of their own after the NME reorganized this decade around the rise of the Strokes and a litter of baby Libertines and postpunkers, a scene that includes Franz Ferdinand, the Futureheads, Arctic Monkeys, and Klaxons, but too often is merely an exercise in selfparody. Perhaps the set ends at the turn of the century because so too does the once inexhaustible creative spirit of UK indie. From the Smiths to Gay Dad: That really says it all.  "}