{"label":" Amoeba","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10851/homepage_large.bd3bfc81.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Gram Parsons","title":"Gram Parsons Archives Volume 1: Gram Parsons with the Flying Burrito Brothers Live at the Avalon Ballroom 1969","text":" Live at the Avalon Ballroom is the rock equivalent of the Jackson Pollock discovered at a flea market, or the firstedition William Faulkner found in the dollar bin at a used book store. These recordings of the Flying Burrito Brothers' two shows in San Francisco in April 1969 were long buried in the Grateful Dead vaults (which many listeners speak of in the same terms explorers once used for El Dorado) until Dave Prinz, the cofounder of Amoeba Records, tracked them down and worked for more than a year to secure permissions from the Dead's soundman, Owsley \"Bear\" Stanley. Prinz compiled the recordings into a 2xCD set (one for each show) and released them on the newly launched Amoeba Records label its second release, in fact. The title, Archives Volume 1: Live at the Avalon Ballroom 1969, teases with the tacit promise of a second volume more buried treasure. For Parsons fans, this constitutes a major event perhaps more anticipated than even Rhino's longawaited reissue of his two solo albums in 2006 not only because it contains numerous unheard covers, but primarily because Parsons didn't leave a whole lot of live material behind when he died in 1973. Even the supposedly \"live\" medley from Grievous Angel was just a studio recreation, and the real live recordings that survive are marred by poor sound quality or, in some cases, poor performances. Live documents of Parsons' short tenure with the original Flying Burrito Brothers lineup are even scarcer. What makes Live at the Avalon Ballroom so special is that the performance is just as good as the sound quality. As professional hangeron Pamela \"Burrito Sister\" Des Barres writes in the liners, \"I have literally been waiting for this album for decades.\" As promising as that title is, the artist credit Gram Parsons with the Flying Burrito Brothers is misleading. Parsons may have stood center stage in 1969, but this was truly a Burrito Brothers show. The band sounds tremendous on the first disc, with a superlatively tight rhythm section carrying each song and Sneaky Pete Kleinow adding flourishes of pedal steel. Striking the right balance of tight C&W showmanship and loose hippie slack, they plow into Little Richard's \"Lucille\" and the Buck Owens hit \"Close Up the Honky Tonks\", which opens the show on a raucous note. But the Burrito Brothers prove just as adept and controlled on slower songs like the downhearted \"Dark End of the Street\" and \"Hot Burrito #1\", one of the band's best compositions. \"Hot Burrito #2\" breaks down into a short jam lead by Parsons' organ licks, and \"Sin City\", the band's contribution to country music moralism, sounds sturdy and steadfast as it closes the first night with apocalyptic images of \"the Lord's burnin' rain\" falling on Los Angeles. Of course, they all flub their cues on the later performance of Delaney and Bonnie's \"We've Got to Get Ourselves Together\", but there's a certain charm to their stoner haze, especially on their nearly a cappella reading of the Everly Brothers' \"When Will I Be Loved\" (a bonus track on what might be considered a bonus release), which emphasizes their homey harmonies.  But it's Parsons who remains squarely in the spotlight, then as now. The late musician has become such a legend that it's nice to hear him sound so human on Live at the Avalon Ballroom, haphazardly addressing the audience or even simply introducing the songs. It's all so mundane that it makes him much more compelling than the myths that surround him. Furthermore, these two concerts showcase his effortless vocals; Parsons may not have had the most commanding voice, but he used it well, intuitively interpreting songs like \"Undo the Right\" and \"Dark End of the Street\" so that they fit perfectly and naturally among the Burrito originals. George Jones may still have the definitive take on \"She Once Lived Here\", but Parsons makes the song newly devastating, affecting a precarious quaver in his voice on the verses and keening more boldly on the chorus. And his solo piano performance of \"Thousand Dollar Wedding\" not part of the concert, but a demo dug up by Parsons' road manager Jimmi Seiter completely reinvents the song, slowing it even more from its familiar country gait and reveling in its leftatthealtar heartbreak.  Ultimately, Live at the Avalon Ballroom shows these songs in continual flux, as the band constantly reinvent and reinterpret them via the circumstances of the performance and the whims of the individuals. Even though the tracklists for these discs are nearly identical, the shows themselves aren't redundant. Instead, they reveal the Burrito Brothers' considerable musical chemistry while providing a useful historical document of the nights they turned the Avalon into a rowdy roadhouse.  "}