{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10844/homepage_large.5fc9c9a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: The Outskirts of Deep City","text":"  If you've followed Numero Group's Eccentric Soul series for any amount of time, you've likely been to Deep City, the Miami label that essentially birthed the city's soul scene and laid the groundwork for the Henry Stone funk/soul/disco empire that hit nationally during the 1970s. Their retrospective of that label was fantastic, unearthing 17 mostly forgotten tracks that added up to a formidable body of work. While Deep City was the main operation of its founders Willie Clarke and Johnny Pearsall, though, there was a small constellation of other labels they and their associates were involved in between 1963 and 1971 that also helped shape the character of Miami soul, including five that only released one 45. This compilation focuses on those peripheral activities, with a few additional Deep City cuts included as well. A few of the names are new, even if most of the players are essentially the same collective documented on the first Deep City volume. Frank Williams & the Rocketeers and other alumni of Florida A&M University's Incomparable Marching 100 man many of the instruments, Clarence Reid, in his preBlowfly days, has two tracks and lends his writing and production skills to many others, and Helene Smith and Betty Wright duke it out for the title of Miami Soul Queen. Some of the tracks are previously unreleased, pulled from a beatup box of reels Clarke retrieved from his exwife's house. According to the amusing liners, the Numero guys badgered him for years to go and get them. Those same liners, which include a Miami soul glossary, track notes, photos, and a multilabel 45 discography, also mention that there were originally no plans for a followup volume, but I'm glad they made one, because most of these tracks simply didn't deserve to stay in a musty old box decaying in a closet or locked on obscure singles. Helene Smith's four tracks are real finds her crushing deep soul ballad \"True Love Don't Grow on Trees\", with its towering, symphonic horn arrangement and brooding rhythm section, is simply brilliant and makes me sad that she gave up music after the demise of Deep City (a demise she was partly responsible for).  Smith's (somewhat unwitting) rival, Betty Wright, counters with two tracks of equal power. Her \"Mr. Lucky\", cut through with gunshot sound effects and an organ hook that borrows from Chopin's funeral march, is a gutsy soul stomper right on the border of funk her gritty, badass performance on the song makes it hard to believe she was only 14 years old when she recorded it. Unbelievable. As the years wore on, funk became a much heavier influence on the Miami sound. Perk Badger's \"Do Your Stuff\", from 1970, is built on a thick rhythm and even features Badger's James Brownish instructions to the band members, while Frank Williams & the Rocketeers cut a heavy JB groove on 1966's \"Show Me What You Got\", clearly building on the innovations of \"Out of Sight\" and \"Papa's Got a Brand New Bag\".  Deep City's Criteria Studios actually hosted recording sessions by James Brown, and it's clear from these cuts that Clarke would have had no trouble getting a sound that was right for him. But whether it was hard, raw funk or lushly arranged deep soul, the Deep City crew didn't really seem to have trouble making anything sound good. This volume is almost as strong as its predecessor, a superb document of the early evolution of the Miami sound that anyone into old soul or funk should hear.  "}