{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10853/homepage_large.30254b20.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"June Panic","title":"Songs From Purgatory: Cassette Recordings 1991-1996","text":"  Now that just about any schmuck with a guitar can make a reasonably professionalsounding recording of himself and slap it on a MySpace page for all the world to hear, the days of fourtrack bedroom recording seem like ancient history, even though the medium still exists and its heyday only ended about ten years ago. Home fourtrack recording began life as a crude means to an end, a way to make that record no one would pay you to make, but by the early 1990s, it had become its own ethos, essentially a different medium from professional recording studios. It had limitations but also possibilities, and an entire indie rock subculture grew up around lofi aesthetics. June Panic recorded about a dozen cassette releases on his fourtrack in the first six years of the 90s, distributed mostly by hand to local record stores, friends, and friends of friends. He was adventurous in his use of the medium, recording himself and occasional friends on a band's worth of instruments and working on a vast array of ways to layer his voice and complete a mix. His output ranged from pensive folk to indie rock with the occasional spike of feedback, ultradistortion, or screaming punk fury. Here, Secretly Canadian has shown its commitment to its artists by allowing Panic to compile three whole discs worth of his cassette recordings, which had been rescued from flood waters in North Dakota and meticulously restored in his kitchen. They also let him narrate the compilation with a set of liner notes that build up to a theory that purgatory is where souls can most easily be themselves (interesting stuff in light of his spirituallythemed recent output). Theological concerns aside, the 53 tracks compiled here form a scrapbook of Panic's early artistic life that will be interesting for his fans and hardcore 90s lofi buffs but really no one else. There's frankly not much that transcends the medium or begs to be listened to out of context. It's a record that really needs to be listened to on a momenttomoment basis rather than a trackbytrack one, because the interesting bits are often right up alongside tiresome, ponderous, and obnoxious bits within the same song. For a quick example, \"Fountain of Youth\" has a nice Spanishtinged acoustic guitar part moving in tandem with a totally forgettable vocal that's undersung to a fault (it's rather slurred, actually), and then sticks a lovely, crystalclear acoustic guitar solo in the middle.  Panic had a strange penchant for making his already nasal vocals even more pinched by speeding them up. He also liked recording loud, driving indie rock songs with the guitar pushed all the way into the red there are quite a few of them scattered across the set, and none of them is particularly satisfying. He was much more suited to quiet, tense songs like \"There Is a Tool\", which backs up his voice with sparse guitar, mandolin, bass, and organ for a floating effect it still doesn't have a grabbing melody or much else to hang your hat on, but it's at least an intriguing sonic environment. The tracks with exceptionally clear sound and a few comments in the liners make it clear that Panic was one of the first to view lack of fidelity as a stylistic choice rather than an economic necessity (for him, it was really both).  It's hard to recommend this to anyone but devotees of the lofi ethos and extremely dedicated June Panic fans. For everyone else, subjecting yourself to the excesses of the set is probably not worth it you'll find your mind wandering quickly, and the sheer volume of material makes it unlikely you'll ever get to know it well without really working at it.  "}