{"label":" Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10861/homepage_large.9321a249.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Buzzcocks","title":"30","text":" The 30th anniversary of UK punk was celebrated with a reunion or two here, a few talking head TV specials there, but in true punk fashion, the arrival of the milestone was mostly met with a shrug. And perhaps rightly so: Anniversaries are by their very nature roundnumber arbitrary, and punk was always about rejecting that kind of fanfare, not embracing it. 1976? 1977? 1978? Another year, another anniversary. But considering the Buzzcocks are one of the few class of 76 acts still in action, maybe it's less a surprise that the venerable Manchester band decided not to sit out the celebration, playing a gig last year at London's forum in honor of their own specific anniversary (the group's Spiral Scratch EP was released in 1977) as much as punk's anniversary in general. Of course, the Buzzcocks have more to celebrate than most of their peers, given how well their catalog of melodic and smart slashandburn punk has held up over the years. No simpleminded 1234 primitive, Pete Shelley (and, to a lesser extent, Steve Diggle) wrote songs built to last: short, sharp and clever rather than bombastic or abrasive. While the Buzzcocks' postprime output has been respectable, the vast majority of the songs on 30, a live album (the group's third) drawn from that London date, remain the same songs that drew people to the band in the first place. Of the 28 (why not 30?) songs, about threequarters date to the group's essential first run of singles, EPs, and albums. It's a testament to Shelley's and Diggle's enthusiasm that the remaining seven songs tracks of a more recent vintage such as \"Isolation\", \"Reconciliation\", and \"Speed of Life\" fit in pretty well with their triedandtrue predecessors.  As for those immortal predecessors, songs like \"I Don't Mind\", \"You Say You Don't Love Me\", \"What Do I Get?\", \"Autonomy\", \"Promises\", and \"Ever Fallen In Love?\" just the tip of the iceberg, really have sounded both better and worse, capturing an honest but pointless wartsandall performance from a band not quite at its peak, yet still far from anyone's idea of a nadir. In this context, Shelley and Diggle are reduced to shouting over their own rumble, with the former's incisive sneer losing some of its edge and the latter's bark no match for the buzzsaw guitars. In other words, it's basically an official bootleg, a youwerethere document no doubt recorded in front of an audience that largely wasn't. At least, not originally. After all, the thrill of 197677 was that no one had any idea if the music exploding out of England was built to last or, as its critics claimed, was merely the latest flashinthepan manifestation of youthful rebellion. In this sense, 30 is nothing more than another nostalgiadriven fete of what once was, featuring all the hits fans new and old have come to love. But there is something here beyond its face value. The Buzzcocks have spent the past 30 years saddled with the reputation as a singles band, but between the hits and scattered new songs, 30 makes a case for many of the group's album tracks, too. No bestof collection would toss in less ubiquitous songs like \"Moving Away From the Pulse Beat\", \"Running Free\", or \"Why She's a Girl From the Chainstore\" all of which are pleasant surprises for any sucker convinced that \"Orgasm Addict\" and its more familiar ilk are all you need from the Buzzcocks. No, from a band this great you need it all, and if the proficient but perfunctory 30 helps send you back down that threedecade path, then so be it. "}