{"label":" Look","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10855/homepage_large.cd6b20cd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"G&D","title":"The Message Uni Versa","text":" There's a fine line between crazystupid and crazygenius. In the 1970s George Clinton and his PFunk crew typified the latter concept; They devised album covers inspired by both Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey and Shaft, freaked out like the universe's most flamboyant muppets, and concocted grooves with a warped funkiness that has yet to be topped. WhackedR&B purveyors Georgia Anne Muldrow and Dudley Perkins most likely have multiple copies of almost every LP George Clinton ever had a hand in. Everything about The Message Uni Versa from its trippy illustrated cover to its outer spaceinspired title to its bulbous beats and Utopian lyrics feels like a wellmeaning tribute to the PFunk aura. But the love letter often sounds like a parody thanks to its overwhelming sense of halfassedness. While the loping, bassheavy genre was born with a satisfied casualness, this is just ridiculous of the album's 20 tracks, only about half are truetolife songs and the central hippiefied messages are afterthoughts at best. And instead of Clinton's bracing LCDlaced absurdity, Uni Versa finds Perkins and Muldrow huffing and puffing their way to becoming babbling peaceniks too high to think clearly but not high enough to enter another realm of thought all together. There's no doubt this couple are soul mates Perkins is the eternally smokedout, goofyvoiced Stones Throw rebel too unfocused to ever achieve greatness, Muldrow is the eternally smokedout, second rateBadustyle Stones Throw rebel too spacey to ever make some genuine earthshaking funk. They're the bumbling duo who would sneak into the trees behind the high school come lunch time. Encouraging each other's most flighty tendencies, the record is peppered with three stupendously dumb and unfunny skits in which the duo converse in fauxmedieval accents while the MIDI soundtrack to King's Quest VI diddles away (sample exchange: \"Hark, who goes there?\" \"It is I, fair lady!\"). The skit trilogy makes Martin Lawrence's King Arthur farce Black Knight seem like a haughty slice of period piece Oscar bait. And the filler doesn't stop there: lazy, abbreviated beats, new reverb plugin tests, and five full minutes of ambient party noise waste time inbetween the duo's more legitimate attempts at modern hiphop funk. Even on the few odd tracks that could pass for PFunk Csides including \"One\" and \"Godunit\", Perkins manages to tank them with his wearisome ODBmeetsChappelle flow and sub\"Sesame Street\" motivational gobbledygook (\"We came here to light your way/ 'Til you see a brighter day\"). Funkadelic's sometimes brutal commentary and harsh realities are diluted into the sound byte nostalgia of an overthebend Deadhead. This album couldn't get the most funkstarved nation under its groove. No asses will follow it. It will not lead to anyone having sex. It's perfunctory funk for desperate neosoulsters. \"Wake up and don't sleep  don't be so lazy,\" advises Perkins on the numbingly vague antiBush diatribe \"War Drums\". Message, meet mirror. "}