{"label":" Tomlab","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10867/homepage_large.347f7ce8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Hey Willpower","title":"P.D.A.","text":"  The indie world's embrace of pop for pop's sake finally ended a nasty, decadeslong habit of ignoring the top 40 in favor of navel gazing. There's been some reciprocity, too it's just as nice to hear of Arcade Fire fans saving iPod space for Justin Timberlake as it is to hear Timberlake namedrop David Byrne or appear propping up the Flaming Lips. Out of this collision has come the likes of Junior Boys and Fujiya & Miyagi, indierooted but popfriendly acts whose lack of smug, distancing irony (plus ample hooks, of course) is partly what makes them so enjoyable. There's a potentially soso album swimming around somewhere in Hey Willpower's P.D.A. It's not impossible to go top 40 without a chance of radio play. Green Gartside isn't the most soulful of dudes, but his pure, honest affection for pop comes through loud and clear with Scritti Politti. At the same time, Junior Senior get such an obvious kick from paying tribute to their funky, freestyling forefathers that their obnoxious pastiches can be downright contagious. But the stylistic affectations and vocal tics of Hey Willpower (Imperial Teen's Will Schwartz and Tussle's Tomo Yasuda) start out irritating and go downhill from there. The thin, squelchy synths of \"Double Fantasy II\" could be an OK standalone goof, but no, it's followed by \"UhUhUh\", which seems every bit the joke as Babyface's \"Backdoor Lover\" (credited to Du Jour) from the Josie and the Pussycats OST. Minus the joke. \"Retail Heaven\" features a cheeseball spoken word intro and gratuitously breathy MJ/JT ithurtstosing vocals. The unjustified \"Silent Ring\" is even worse, and if \"Hundredaire\" aims for the conjoining of Prince and George Michael, no doubt those two auteurs would politely decline the honor.  Hell, that's only the halfway mark. Giving up early, you'd miss the masochistically stupid streetsmart turn \"Magic Window\" and the not hot \"Too Hot\". At least a doowop foundation gives the final track, a reworking of Architecture in Helsinki's \"Heart It Races\", enough of a novelty vibe that it could probably run inconspicuously over the ending credits of some tween flick, a dubious achievement (assuming you're aiming for more than just a big paycheck): like too much of what's come before it, it's music meant to play when you're filing out and no one's listening.  If there's anything Hey Willpower needs, it's maybe a little more winking selfawareness. No doubt it's there, but the pop simulacrum is played so straight you can only take it at face value. Timberlake is one of the acts obviously in the sights of Schwartz and Yasuda, but generously speaking, Hey Willpower's debut P.D.A. would at best play like a parody of JT (or JC, or hell, George Michael), were it the least bit amusing. If it's meant to be a joke, it's not funny. If it's not meant to be funny, it's a joke. Neither here nor there, the funklesss wouldbe dancefloor fodder of P.D.A. frankly comes off D.O.A. "}