{"label":" Yep Roc / Oxfam","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10876/homepage_large.6c0eae36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Cake Sale","title":"The Cake Sale","text":"  The worst moment for a record reviewer is the one when you're assigned to write about a charity album that it turns out you don't like. Even people who don't want to admit that there's no objective standard for judging music's quality know deep down that what winds up in a review, at least in a forum like this site, is someone's opinion of what they just heard and extenuating circumstances are just a side story. My basic opinion of the Cake Sale is that it's consistently uninteresting it's so stridently middleoftheroad that there's little to get excited about. But I'd be a heartless bastard if I didn't make it clear that all profits from this record benefit Oxfam's Make Trade Fair program (this still applies to their U.S. deal with Yep Roc). The band is really more of a loose collective, helmed by Brian Crosby of Ireland's Bell X1, and it includes Damien Rice, Nina Persson, Josh Ritter, Rice's former vocalist Lisa Hannigan, the Divine Comedy's Neil Hannon, Snow Patrol's Gary Lightbody, Crowded House bassist Nick Seymour, and members of Frames, the Thrills, and Turn, among others. Fans of some of those bands may have things to latch onto here think a softer, plusher Snow Patrol with less memorable songwriting. It was also recorded all over the place, with basic tracks done at one point and vocals tracked in different countries at different times, which could account for some of the lack of energy and sense of interplay that weighs it down. It sounds cohesive because the very refined (one might say sterile) production keeps it that way, but it can't mask the missing group dynamic. For my donation, the best track is the last one, the Neil Hannonled \"Aliens\". I can't really get behind the chorus lyric, \"I've been speaking with aliens/ They've agreed to abduct everyone but you,\" but the way it's delivered, pipedin choir and all, makes it far and away the record's most dramatic and lasting moment. It's the unselfconscious way it embraces its cheesiness that makes it endearing this is something Hannon's always been good at, and he plays it perfectly here. Much of the rest of the record is an adult contemporary smear, with xylophone and violin accents at the edges that don't add much more than texture and a raft of toosubdued vocal performances that allow your mind to wander too easily.  Josh Ritter does a better job than most of grabbing the melody at his disposal and giving it some rhythm and personality on \"Vapour Trail\", bringing a sort of country twang to the song that sets it apart it's also more sparsely arranged than the rest of the record, which gives the song some room to breathe and just be what it is. Meanwhile, I had to listen to \"Black Winged Bird\", sung by Persson, several times just to remember the refrain, and the Hanniganled opener \"Last Leaf\" never gets off the ground, dragged down by a leaden melody. \"Good Intentions Rust\" sounds like a rejected Grandaddy Bside.  As much as I'd like to, I just can't recommend this good intentions aside, it's pleasant but totally nondescript and devoid of energy. In short, it's boring if you want to support Fair Trade initiatives, you'd probably just be better off donating straight to Oxfam or buying one of the interesting Think Global comps that have come out in the last few years if you're in the UK, you could even hit up one of their used book stores.  "}