{"label":" Dead Oceans","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10877/homepage_large.b0b7d3eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Evangelicals","title":"The Evening Descends","text":" In an interview with Pitchfork shortly after the release of Evangelicals' 2006 debut, So Gone, Josh Jones revealed that he was already plotting album no. 2: \"I think it's going to be like Marvin Gaye meets the Rocky Horror Picture Show.\" He wasn't too far off the mark. OK, so maybe Jones' frantic falsetto isn't quite let'sgetiton smooth, but his mention of the glamrock musical was no gross overstatement: The Evening Descends is bursting with balconypitched histrionics, molten Brian May leads, and standingovationworthy crashes. But what really makes this album special is the ways in which the Evangelicals pull off bigstage spectacle on what still sounds like a publicaccess cableshow budget. More than their shared zip code and mutual affinity for lysergic pop songs, it's this thrifty ideology that most closely relates Evangelicals to the Flaming Lips specifically the anarchic mid80s incarnation that proved a few wellutilized Christmas lights and fog machines can make a bar band look like Pink Floyd. But where So Gone deployed the kitchensink aesthetic in a more chaotic fashion with recording levels and synth squelches dropping in and out of the mix without warning on The Evening Descends, the production quirks and strange background noises mostly serve the songs' momentum rather than subvert them. Mind you, that's not a conclusion you'd immediately draw from the opening title track, a deconstructed lullaby that takes all of the Evangelicals' signature devices ghostly hums, glammy guitar swirls, videogame synth effects, subliminal conversations and Jones' fragile croon breaks them down and pieces them back together at random. But after this curious opener perhaps their fuckedup idea of a storybooklike introduction to set the album's nocturnal mood Evangelicals don't look back. Like So Gone, the songs on The Evening Descends find Jones toeing the blurry lines separating ennui, intoxication and insanity. But the more patient, assertive performances (unlike So Gone, Jones recorded the new album with bassist Kyle Davis and drummer Austin Stephens) lends Jones' peculiar musings a greater degree of sincerity. When he sings \"please don't tell my mother/ She wouldn't want to know/ I've been goin' crazy\" (on \"Midnight Vignette\"), it sounds less like paranoid stonerspeak than a portrait of a very real domestic drama. The triumphant \"Skeleton Man\" presents an even more poignant portrait of an outcast in search of acceptance, his pleas for understanding set to a resolute, bouncingball march in step with Arcade Fire's \"Rebellion (Lies)\" that retains its composure even as the strangulated voices and madcap laughter inside his head threaten to overcome him. But it's a tentative peace: \"How Do You Sleep\" The Evening Descends' most overthetop gesture gushes forth with a multitracked miasma of arpeggiated guitars and operatic shrieks; however, unlike the John Lennon classic of the same name, the song is not a scathing indictment but rather a genuine inquiry into overcoming recurring nightmares.The Evening Descends' more considered depiction of Jones' psychosis does not come at the complete expense of Evangelicals' more playful whims: \"Snowflakes\" is a charming winterwonderland ballad that's a close companion to So Gone's standout serenade \"My Heartache\", and the badtrip breakdown of \"Party Crashin'\" is framed by cheeky faux hospitaldrama dialogue between a doctor and an amputee, Jones' cries undercut by a chipper acoustic riff and wailing sirens. Evangelicals are mostly careful to not let their foundsound chicanery overwhelm their songs, however, \"Bellawood\" The Evening Descends' one outandout misstep is guilty of overselling the drama, its story of institutionalization delivered with an uncharacteristically contrived performance by Jones and bogged down by Bmovie shtickiness (Hitchcockian strings, Theremin effects). Perhaps it's an instant selfcorrecting measure that the song is immediately followed by \"Paperback Suicide\", a simple, glockenspieled powerpop number whose breezy, blissful demeanor craftily belies its tale of a frustrated writer who kills himself just to hear his own obituary a requiem for every struggling artist who's pondered infamy through the afterlife. And so The Evening Descends' storybook structure yields an important lesson: There's no need to fake the weird when you live in the real world. "}