{"label":" Max Ernst","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1103/homepage_large.2247c600.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Thomas Brinkmann","title":"Tokyo + 1","text":" For a time, one of Thomas Brinkmann's musical preoccupations was handcarving crude loops into old vinyl, so we know how much he likes repetition. When he swims down to explore the depths of funk as Soul Center, he is often content to stand back and admire his perfect eightbar rhythmic construction for minutes at a time. And why not? The dude is good at it. As a philosophically minded German with a bedrock faith in Detroit techno, Brinkmann sees the sequencer as a holy thing, and he has an unusual knack for distilling humanity from endlessly repeating blips and beeps.Tokyo + 1 is an audio travel diary of sorts, compiled from sounds Brinkmann recorded in Tokyo (with one track, the \"+1\", consisting of material recorded in the Greek city Ikaria). True to Brinkmann's nature, this is no drifting album of field recordings. Interludes of captured sound are there, but Brinkmann generally organizes his sources into tight coils of driving rhythm. On the surface of \"109 Competition\", for instance, chaos reigns, as clipped syllables and metallic clanks appear and vanish with no discernable pattern. But then, underneath, a steady pulse of noises have assembled themselves into something resembling house. The shuffle of \"Mit Sugar\" is more difficult to source. One moment it sounds like something a drum corps might march to, but then insertions of upstroke synths morph the track into upbeat dub until unpredictable \"slips\" of the beat pull the listener out of a trance. Throughout Tokyo + 1, Brinkmann playfully varies the dance styles with which he organizes his sounds. \"3 St. 2 Shinjuku\" is hard techno, with relentlessly repetitive synth stabs, but the snippets of voice Brinkmann uses as a lead are soft and warm, providing balance and contrast. The harsh and unforgiving bang of \"Lovesong\", which explores the filthy corner where industrial meets techno, provides no such padding. Even when not shaping his files into danceable grooves, Brinkmann still lets the rhythm dictate. \"Decoupe\" consists mostly of chopped and processed bits of dialog, mostly in French, but a deeply buried synth drone and clicky beat ratchet up the tension. It feels like it could explode into violence at any moment, as the static grows noisier and more fucked up with each loop. \"Mamas\" is cruder in construction, as a series of voices and machine noises rush past like a film clip on the wrong speed fluttering uncontrollably. The closing \"Ikaria\" doubles up and loops fragments of speech, bringing to mind the early tape work of Steve Reich.Tokyo + 1 is not an easy listen but it packs a surprising amount of power considering how familiar this approach has become. Field recordings, loops, crashing dishes transformed into a drum kit we've heard it all before. But creative hands, whether bent over an old slab of vinyl with a pocketknife or guiding an optical mouse across a tabletop, have a way of making old things new. "}