{"label":" Epitaph / Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10885/homepage_large.464b01e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"The Weakerthans","title":"Reunion Tour","text":" Reunion Tour seems like a misnomer for the Weakerthans' fourth album, and not just because the Canadian rockers never really broke up. The band's frontman, exPropagandhi bassist John K. Samson, shares the literary storytelling and slightly nasal vocals of such singer/songwriters as the Mountain Goats' John Darnielle, Darnielle collaborator John Vanderslice, and (well, except for the nasal bleat) his own wife, Christine Fellows. As with Darnielle after he ditched the boombox for an actual studio, Samson's biggest challenge has always been coming up with musical accompaniments that live up to his expertly rendered narratives a task at which the Weakerthans, even at their best on 2000's Left and Leaving, have only partly succeeded. Like its predecessors, Reunion Tour sets Samson's brainy, sensitive lyrics to direct, melodic postBuilt to Spill indie rock, with occasional altcountry twang. But the album still reads better than it sounds, and even on paper only sometimes lives up to past glories. Samson spins his yarns out of intense, intimate details, and when the greater fabric is as vibrant as those densely wrought fibers, Reunion Tour can be almost the match of those other musical storytellers' recent records. Witness the lonely bus driver of opener \"Civil Twilight\", who tries to take his mind off of lost love by reciting \"the names of provinces or Hollywood actors/ Oh, Ontario, oh, Jennifer Jason Leigh.\" On \"Relative Surplus Value\", a businessman heads for the airport, his \"heart pumping pure minibar\"; after he recounts losing his job, the song ends with a roundabout, conversationally phrased plea for help. \"Tournament of Hearts\" borrows its title from former Weakerthans tourmates Constantines' most recent album (which borrowed its name from the Canadian womens' curling championship), for a powerchord propelled vignette of a man shouting his insecurities at the yellowed sports championship banners on the bar wall. On \"Plea From a Cat Named Virtute\", from 2003's Reconstruction Site, Samson challenges another diffident protagonist to overcome his lack of selfconfidence all from the point of view of a cat. The feline returns on Reunion Tour's \"Virtute the Cat Explains Her Departure\", building from keyboards and shuffling drums to a scraggly, dueling guitar solo on the album's most emotionally charged moment (at least if you like cats). But \"Hymn of the Medical Oddity\" is a midtempo plodder that makes more sense if you know it's about a man who was sexually reassigned at birth and ultimately committed suicide. And \"Elegy for Gump Worsley\", about a late hockey player with a rich punkrock history, is an overwrought spokenword piece that exposes how much the entire album has in common with book readings, not just rock tours, reunion or otherwise.  \"Got more faults than the state of California/ and the heart is a badly built bridge,\" Samson sings on finale \"Utilities\", over weeping steel guitars. \"Make this something somebody can use,\" he adds. It's to the Weakerthans' credit that their lyricdriven songs can be, in a way, useful, at least by helping reassure the sentimental souls with whom Samson's deftly told stories resonate. Still, they're rarely as striking here as on the groups' previous albums. And even when the tales bear retelling, the staid accompaniment limits Reunion Tour's potential utility in a medium that's how did Gary Cherone put it? more than words.  "}