{"label":" Phantom Sound & Vision","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10889/homepage_large.fc422a2c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Ewing","artist":"Soulwax","title":"Most of the Remixes...","text":" The key to making any remix worthwhile is respect judging when to grant it and when to discard it. Soulwax were a rock band who realized how liberating, delightful, and profitable a lack of respect for music could be as their 2 Many DJs alias became mashup figureheads. That earlydecade boom was a fad that managed to be a nexus point for other key developments critical appreciation of pop; indie's rediscovery of dancing; the rise of web creativity and distribution networks. This compilation of Soulwax's remixes for other people suggests these trends still drive their work. The acts whose music hatched the mixes are a snapshot of omnivorous 00s Eurotaste Gorillaz, Klaxons, Kylie Minogue, LCD Soundsystem, the Gossip, Muse. Nothing too selfserious, nothing too tacky either, and mostly the kind of songs that already do brisk trade on indie dancefloors. Soulwax's handling of these tracks works best when they continue to think like bootleggers, approaching each with the spirit of forced collaboration and surprise. Minogue's iconic \"Can't Get You Out of My Head\", for instance, gets spliced with a scuzzy Kyuss guitar line. Kylie...Kyuss...Kyluss...geddit? But the desert rock backing somehow brings out a hidden hunger in Kylie's teasing vocal line, and there's a need in the song which wasn't there before. Another standout simply blends two old raveera favorites, Human Resource's \"Dominator\" and 808 State's \"Cubik\": The former's brutalism might feel as dated as the latter's abstraction, but they refresh one another wonderfully. More often Soulwax use their remixes as a way of expanding a track. They came of listening age in the 1980s, when every single had a sumptuously extended 12\" mix, and that's the spirit behind their reworkings of Gorillaz's \"Dare\" or the Gossip's \"Standing in the Way of Control\". These aren't always so successful. Soulwax are fond of the cruder, more visceral end of dance music lots of rough acid squealing and hollow drum sounds which ought to play well with guitar rock but doesn't always: The transition in the Gossip mix feels especially forced. Also, Soulwax are better at buildups and releases than in structuring an extended groove within a track most of the longer mixes here bring the euphoria upfront but run out of steam a few minutes in. Luckily, they've brought their alter egos along, and the second disc, a 2 Many DJs mix of all these tracks and more, brushes this problem aside by focusing on the one or two good ideas in each tune. Some of these ideas are obvious \"Daft Punk Is Playing at My House\" with added Daft Punk, the Klaxons remix mashing oldrave and nu but they're marvelously effective when they don't hang around. This disc also lets Soulwax show more range a highlight is a joyful reedit of Ladytron's \"Seventeen\" where the group dial back the beats and embrace their indie rock heritage. And by only working with their own remixes, there's a consistency to the mix disc that compares well to the slightly exhausting eclecticism of most 2 Many DJs projects. Soulwax are part of a generation of remixers who've come to prominence alongside mp3 blogs, whose hunger for new and exclusive material has transformed and grown the remix market. Mixes now don't necessarily have to do more than divert the aim is to extend a band's shelf life and keep them or their remixer frontofmind for a fickle audience. Individually, almost everything here would be a highlight of an idle afternoon roaming the blogosphere no surprise that they're rather indigestible en masse. In the end it's Soulwax's gifts as mixers, not remixers, which provide the best reason to listen. "}