{"label":" Norton","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10926/homepage_large.7f43db88.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"I Hate CDs! Norton 45s","text":"  It's been the mantra of the hardcore vinyl lover since 1982. Hell, I was two years old when the CD was introduced and it was the dominant medium by the time I could string together a few allowances to buy an album, but even I've never found the shiny, lightweight discs half as lovable as the good old grooved 45 and 33 1/3 RPM LP (to say nothing of 78s, 10\"s, and those 16RPM super LPs that never caught on). A jewel case just can't compete with the onefootbyonefoot cardboard canvas LPs came in for decades. The insert's not even as big as a 45 picture sleeve, and we won't even bother talking about jpegs. I've never honestly had much of a stake in the argument over whether the old grooves have a better sound than the new ones and zeroes, not being much of an audiophile, but it's hard not to love the crackle of an aged, wellloved piece of vinyl. Norton Records was founded in 1986 by Brooklynites Miriam Linna and Billy Miller. They shared a mutual admiration for West Virginia onemanband Hasil Adkins, whose outsider rockabilly recordings from the 50s were difficult to find at the time but presented a lofi musical vision that, for their time, bordered on the avantgarde. Their first release was a compilation of his work that helped put him back on the map and led to a long and wild run of releases of raw and unfiltered rock'n'roll and r&b mayhem, including reissues of dozens of obscurities and classics from the 50s, 60s, and 70s and releases of numerous contemporary bands that fit the label's basic aesthetic preferences. Their catalog these days is an 80page book dedicated to Adkins, who passed away in 2005 just days after being assaulted in his front yard by an asshole on an ATV. Norton has actually released plenty of CDs over the years, generally paired with an LP version, but it was one of several labels to keep the old 7\" and 12\" formats alive during the late 80s and early 90s, when it seemed like they were destined for rapid extinction. The purpose of this cheekily named compilation, though, is to offer the internet generation a way to hear three CDs worth of wild 45 sides the label has reissued over the years. The irony of releasing a compilation called I Hate CDs digitally is entirely intentional.  If you've been attuned to the Norton ethos over the years, chances are the contents of this thing won't surprise you much. It's full of brawling garagerock, demented novelty records, solid rhythm & blues obscurities, surfy lead guitars, untrained vocals, and bucketloads of energy. Some of the artists included are acknowledged greats the two Ramones tracks, \"Judy Is a Punk\" and \"I Wanna Be Your Boyfriend\", are songs everyone should know, and the Sonics are essential to any understanding of where punk rock as we know it came from. Big Star's gorgeous power pop masterpiece \"September Gurls\" is here, too, as are tunes from Doug Sahm, Link Wray, ? & the Mysterians, and Mary Weiss of the ShangriLas.  A few tracks are the kind of basic, punkpop that can serve as a gateway drug to crazier stuff. The Real Kids' \"All Kindsa Girls\" is a melodic, punchy song that's more than happy to get its handful of chords stuck in your head, and the Dictators offer an even more potent earworm with \"Who Will Save Rock'n'Roll?\" The guitar riffs, economical solo, and instantly memorable \"my generation is not the salvation\" hook make you wonder if it really needed saving, because it sounds pretty alive and well on this song.  There's a raft of seatofthepants blasts of garage rock among these 45 tracks, from the primal, indistinct stomp and grotesque fuzz of Roy Loney & the ABones to the pianopounding rockabilly thrash of Scotty McKay's \"Bad Times\". You can probably guess what the Neanderthals' \"Twinkle Toes\" sounds like without much help. This all sits quite comfortably next to shuffling r&b bruisers like Don Covay's \"Switchen in the Kitchen\" and Esquerita's jukejoint jam \"Rockin' the Joint\". Andre Williams' funky \"The Monkey Speaks His Mind\" offers a brilliant inversion of the old evolution debate, with a monkey claiming that it's insulting to arborial primates to say that man descended from them. \"No monkey ever deserted his wife, starved his baby and ruined her life,\" says the monkey. We could learn from this guy.  The compilation is nicely spiked with a few flatout strange artists, with the two weirdest grouped together at the beginning of disc two. Screamin' Jay Hawkins is a legend in oddball music circles and had a personality to match the crazed, bizarre vocal style that gave him his nickname. There's an actual club for all of his illegitimate children, who outnumber the broods of most Egyptian pharaohs, and his onstage presence was a thing to behold, as he emerged from a coffin at the beginning of his sets and used a number of macabre props, including a skull that appeared in a great many of his publicity photos. His \"I Hear Voices\", included here, is a brilliant and totally warped piece of nightmare exotica, with an apocalyptic organ part and frenzied voices tugging at his heels as he undergoes a massive vocal freakout. You just have to hear it. It's followed by Wade Curtiss & the Rhythm Rockers' \"Puddy Cat\", a hardtodescribe ripoff of the Trashmen's \"Surfin' Bird\" that features vocals that imitate an angry cat from way back in the throat, giving them a simultaneous psychotic and robotic feel.  This set is great for anyone who's into raw garagerock, the roots of punk, rockabilly, or goodoldfashioned rock'n'roll. And despite focusing on mostly unknown old 45 sides, it's not only for fanatics a lot of this stuff (certainly not all of it, though) will have very broad appeal, and the Adkins track, \"Chicken Shake\", gives newcomers to his music a pretty good taste of his style. And then there's the format issue. Frankly, most of these records aren't hifi enough for anyone to notice much difference in quality between the 45s and mp3s, and that exposes the most basic fact that gets overlooked in the format debates: it's what's in the grooves that counts, and the grooves they've digitized for this comp are a hell of a lot of fun to listen to in any medium.  "}