{"label":" Castle","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1107/homepage_large.d9caa9b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Arthur Brown","title":"Fire: The Arthur Brown Story","text":" Exciting though it may be, the current trend towards reissuing and repackaging allbutforgotten relics from music's past sometimes uncovers minor tragedies. Such is the case with pseudolegendary psychedelic soul singer Arthur Brown, whose expansive output has been dubiously summarized on Fire: The Arthur Brown Story. Like many other singularly odd musicians, Brown encountered fleeting success, followed by an extended period of decline, neglect and experimentation. Many artists with similar career arcs have since received widespread acclaim as spurned innovators, but time has not been so kind to Brown. Much of Fire sounds painfully dated, and most of the more recent material included on the compilation is downright embarrassing. Though Brown's 1968 classic The Crazy World of Arthur Brown remains a sorely underappreciated bit of brilliantly twisted psychedelia, the bewildering selection of tracks here prevents Fire from successfully conveying the power of Brown's best work. Odds are, you've heard 1968's \"Fire\", a brilliant psychsoul epic that's made its way onto countless oldies radio stations and compilation CDs. \"Fire\", which was far and away Brown's most successful single (it shot to #2 on the U.S. charts), remains a fabulous song, equal parts profoundly creepy and unbelievably stupid. Musically, \"Fire\" perfectly frames Brown's wild, warbling vocals with an insistent bassline and prominent organ flourishes. \"Fanfare: Fire Poem\" covers similar ground, with Brown sing/speak/screaming a recounting of an insane acid trip over mutilated jazz noodling. \"Rest Cure\" explores a more subdued manifestation of Brown's early sound, with surprisingly skeletal strings backing more subtly delivered, Bowieesque vocals. Unfortunately, not all of Brown's early material holds up so well. \"Give Him a Flower\" sounds straight off a Mr. Show sketch, with cookie cutter musical backing and dialogue so corny that Brown's real English accent starts to sound fake. And as Fire moves forward in time, things only get direr. Brown's penchant for the theatrical is part of what makes his early work so striking, but it occasionally runs amok on Fire, yielding some pretty awful results. \"The Gremlin (The Song Of)\", though excellent fodder for Halloweenthemed mixes, features a synth arrangement that brings to mind Nintendo's second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game, and lyrics that would make Current 93's David Tibet blush. Indeed, the musical extravagances of the 70s seem to have been seriously detrimental to Brown's work, resulting in cheesier arrangements and weaker songs. Of all the baffling inclusions on this 2xCD set, Brown's recent ballad \"Heartaches\" and an entirely pointless cover of \"A Hard Rain's AGonna Fall\" take the cake. \"Heartaches\", with its cloying piano arrangement and Diane Warrenish lyrics, immediately derails any emotion Brown's weathered and strange voice could possibly convey. Brown's 5\\xBDminute Dylan cover doesn't fare much better, coming off limp and lifeless in spite of a remarkably wellexecuted insectlike string arrangement. Though there's loads of questionable material on Fire, it's hard to know what songs apart from those on the classic Crazy World of Arthur Brown would be fit for inclusion here. After Brown reached his peak in 1968, the rest of his career consisted largely of wellintentioned but fruitless experiments, most of which now sounds dated and silly. But the enthusiasm and utter lack of shame with Arthur Brown approaches his music is part of what makes Fire an intriguing, and ultimately rather depressing listen. The Crazy World of Arthur Brown holds up much, much better as evidence that it is not the novelty of Brown's story or situation, but rather the uniqueness of his delivery and approach, that makes him such a compelling figure of 60s psychrock. "}