{"label":" Soft Abuse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1110/homepage_large.c9a574d4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Blackout Beach","title":"Light Flows the Putrid Dawn","text":" Imagine you're drifting off to sleep after having just performed for two hours to sweaty indie freaks in a smoky, rundown venue when a stout, woodsy Canadian shoves The Odyssey in your face again and forces you to keep reading. An unlikely scenario, to be sure, but it apparently happened repeatedly to Dan Bejar this past spring when Carey Mercer and his band Frog Eyes supported Destroyer on tour: hyperliterate (though not in any rigid academic sense), Mercer almost religiously takes every possible chance to digest the classics and proclaim their greatness to others, as if the works were his own personal discoveries. His enthusiasm, for all the quirky ways it manifests itself, is very genuine 500 years from now, I can imagine someone touting The Beatles, who by then will surely be relegated to historical academia, with the same intensity. We're given some vague sense of Mercer's highpitched Homeric fervor on his Frog Eyes recordings, but on Light Flows the Putrid Dawn, his solo debut as Blackout Beach, it's very clear that the British Canadian bard has internalized a distinctly classical vocabulary and all its accompanying metaphors. Combine these anachronisms with Mercer's fragmented, imagistic approach to lyrics and his feral, operatic delivery, and Light Flows the Putrid Dawn proceeds like some dense Delphic prophecy for our own sake, we can't keep ourselves from deciphering it. The album's brief runtime (less than 24 minutes) is more than compensated for by the overwhelming density of the music. Opener \"If I Were Not Alexander...\" proceeds slowly, but remains impossibly disorienting: Mercer's impenetrable Central Park soothsaying competes with his equally cryptic guitar soloing, to which tickles of piano and accordion are distantly allied. \"The Swineherd Sings...\" follows as the more melodic and intelligible counterpart, as Mercer sings of Stalin, \"I ain't no great fan of men/ It is men that built this damn pen.\" Mercer switches gears for the psychowaltzes \"Krull Courtship\" and \"The Stuttered XXX Breeze XXX\", two songs that aptly justify the frequent Bowie comparisons. Elsewhere on Light Flows the Putrid Dawn, Mercer situates himself firmly on the Rock Side of the burgeoning freakfolk movement: Sparse, overdubbed guitar tracks like \"The Putrid Dawn Is Only for Us Baby\" and \"New Soft and Shimmering Motherhood Alliance\" might draw comparisons to the San Francisco noisepop outfit Iran, and especially on \"Meadows and Pleasant Madames...\", Mercer's lupine croons and the accompanying hellish miasma are closely reminiscent of Tim Buckley. On the relatively stiff closing march \"The Quiet Merchant Gets His Song Too\", Mercer tries his best to rhythmically mask the intense pain with which he wrings out alcohol's often devastating consequences: \"Oh mothers, I feel for you.\" For all Putrid Dawn's musical merits, Mercer's voice is still admittedly a tough sell. On Frog Eyes' past releases, he's sometimes sounded incongruous, either because the instrumentation didn't match his bravado, or because the accompaniment simply disregarded it. It's a wellwarranted reservation to harbor when approaching Blackout Beach (which was recorded prior to 2003's The Golden River), but one that may safely be put to rest. Mercer is simply never outofsync with himself here, and his vocal melodies benefit from his bizarre but undeniably singular orchestrations. As listeners, we can tell Mercer clearly knows what he wants out of these songs even if we don't know exactly what that entails. "}