{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10967/homepage_large.5ffba086.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Born Ruffians","title":"Red Yellow & Blue","text":"  Scenes often imply a style, but for the most visible exports of Toronto's postmillennial indierock scene Broken Social Scene, the Constantines, the Hidden Cameras the unifying principle has been not so much a common musical aesthetic as a communal ethic: the compulsion to crowd the stage with players and audience members alike, turning observers into participants and vice versa. Arriving in Toronto three years ago from the nearby town of Midland, on paper Born Ruffians seemed antithetical to the prevailing grouphug atmosphere: they boast no auxiliary horn or string sections, no spotlightstealing guest female singers, no balaclavaclad dancers just three unassuming kids in standard guitar/bass/drums formation. But Born Ruffians haven't let their personnel deficiencies and basic instrumentation stop them from thinking and functioning like a mass collective they simply hoot and holler and make a spectacle of themselves (a cappella grouphuddle singalongs, anyone?) like a band three times their size. Born Ruffians' 2006 debut EP packed this restless vigor into six compact but complicated songs: wiry frontman Luke LaLonde shrieked about getting laid and getting paid, while bassist Mitch DeRosier and drummer Steve Hamelin seemed to be reacting not to the singer's melodic cues, but the convulsions in his pubertyfreaked voice. So compared to this petulant precedent, the opening title track to the band's first full length, Red Yellow Blue, goes down like a horse tranquilizer: amid a rippling, hypnotic guitarpeggio, the sound of distant whistles and an eerily expansive sense of space, LaLonde's voice assumes a Panda Bearlike levity, as he sings of a fantasy to start his own country and choose the colors for its flag: \"Such a myriad to choose from/ I pick red, yellow, and blue.\" Of course, he would go with primary colors for all their spastic outbursts and timesignature trickery, at the heart of every Born Ruffians song is a plea for simplicity. That a band as tightly wound as Born Ruffians would eventually loosen the noose is not surprising; perhaps all those unwanted copies of Some Loud Thunder sitting in record stores served as a sobering reminder of what happens when a nervy indierock band sticks too close to type. But Red Yellow Blue plays out not as some premeditated step toward maturity following that opening reverie, the giddy onetwo punch of \"Barnacle Goose\" and \"Hummingbird\" reassert equal proportions of the herky and the jerky rather, it explores different shades of the youngman's blues. Almost every song here sounds like a defense of some innocent ideal cooking dinner for \"ma and pa and grand mama\" (\"Hedonistic Me\"), a promise of unconditional love even \"when the money's gone\" (the Built to Spillerific stomper \"Badonka Donkey\") which, of course, makes LaLonde something of a modernday outlaw. Hamelin and DeRosier's cheeky backup harmonies reinforce the image of a 1950s doowop gang, summoned by LaLonde as if they were his own personal Sha Na Na.  But for all their childlike abandon, Born Ruffians are still too twitchy to ever come off as twee. For a three piece, they're like an antipowertrio: LaLonde's tinny guitar tone is as thin as his frame, and Hamelin seems more intent on hitting the rims than the skins. But the threadbare presentation means the band never lets itself get too comfortable, instead introducing novel midsong changeups to elevate a track (the winsome twopart campfire serenade \"Little Garcon, Little Fille\"), or in some cases, salvage them (\"In a Mirror\", which, just as its circular melody crosses the line from insidious to annoying, kicks into a rousing victorylap sendoff). Or sometimes, it's just an easy but effective ploy to heighten the drama, like the middle break in \"Kurt Vonnegut\" that halts the song's drumrolled momentum but sets up its heartrending climax, where the Ruffians gradually lay off their instruments and, in threepart harmony, coax a girl to her bedroom window like a multiheaded Lloyd Dobler.  After this grand finale, it's surprising that Born Ruffians have anything left for closer \"Red Elephant\", and as such, the song feels like an unnecessary addendum, its repeating pattern of dirgey verses and spedup choruses constituting one of the few instances here where the songwriting feels routine. But even if Red Yellow Blue overstays its welcome for one song, it still counts as one of this new year's most engaging and endearing indierock debuts. Which may echo the sentiments attributed to another debut album on this site recently, but then Born Ruffians are the Vampire Weekend you don't have to fret over all the witty wordplay and jinglejangle joy, none of the nagging questions about Afropop appropriation and Ivy League privilege.  "}