{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10959/homepage_large.5ef348b5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Magic Weapon","title":"Residue Hymns EP","text":"  At the climax of \"Pipe Dreams\", the opening song from Magic Weapon's Residue Hymns, Jordan RobsonCramer nonchalantly sings, \"I've got my blood in you.\" To that point the song has been a complex argument of some sort, and this quiet statement could be a declaration of love or a recognition of some hereditary overlap (or both.) As on much of his work under this title, RobsonCramer doesn't seem to care about discovering or revealing details as much as reveling in the absurdity of bewilderment. On Hymns, the Sunset Rubdown drummer's second EP as Magic Weapon and first with the lineup of drummer Matt Shane (Think About Life) and guitarist Rory Seydel (Shapes & Sizes), he creates a hallucinatory borderland between the real and imagined, his songs taking place in dark alleyways, film fantasies, dashed empires and appropriately for an indie band with such a pedigree music scenes.Hymns' murkiness is matched by its sense of magnitude. RobsonCramer mashes surreal lyrics with grandiose, organdriven backdrops, clattering rhythmic patterns, and peals of distended guitar, like Spencer Krug minus Bowie plus the sounds associated with another trio of interchangeable parts, Emerson, Lake & Palmer. The title track's opening organ sounds like something from ELP's Pictures at an Exhibition, but is lent a modern sense of grotesque majesty with the refrain \"She's having a seizure in dark alleyways and coughing up globs of light.\" RobsonCramer toys with ideas of sovereignty \"Charles (the Red One)\" sounds like the tale of a boy king and ties empires and epitaphs together with his chosen profession on the torrential \"Sandstorms\". More concerned with getting the point across than with staying on key, RobsonCramer's singing voice situates Magic Weapon in the here and now. His vitriolic, emotive, indie singyell splits the difference between trumpeting and, well, whining. Maybe long ago mastery could be attained at such a young age, but in 2008, RobsonCramer's tentative grasp on expressing intensity hints at why Hymns while a big improvement over its comparatively muddy predecessor is his second EP instead of first LP.  RobsonCramer's intonations locate Magic Weapon in a mythical realm, but his antiquarian leanings run headfirst into the postmodern via \"Blood Songs\", where he pricks himself and bleeds blue, railing against charlatans who phone in meaningless, prefab indignation for rent check money. Appropriately for someone so swathed in sincerity, RobsonCramer goes scorchedearth against those who opt for the ironic as a misguided strategy of \"embracing all the worthless\" which follows \"the tune of all misguided exclamations.\" I probably shouldn't expect anything less than archaic fire and brimstone rhetoric from a record titled Residue Hymns, of course; but it also results, more often than not, in the music itself resonating as warmly as a weathered limestone monument.  "}