{"label":" Century Media","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10977/homepage_large.e15a4ad5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"Warbringer","title":"War Without End","text":"  Any follower of recent metal trends will have noticed a huge rehashing of the early1980s thrash, as made famous by Metallica, Slayer, Anthrax, Megadeth, Exodus, and others. L.A.'s Warbringer are, well, not only bringing the, um, war and as their debut verifies, bringin' it without end (!) but also building an impressive underground buzz as one of the premier new school thrash bands. They allegedly range in age from 17 to 22 years, and march in stride with other young metal militia such as Municipal Waste, Fueled by Fire, Toxic Holocaust, and Meltdown. Warbringer's debut isn't only fun and nostalgic, however, but a hugely impressive, geekedout stylestudy of the albums that have become the thrash blueprints. These kids have either listened to the same sixtoeight albums so incessantly that they've internalized every Kill 'Em All/Reign in Blood riff, or these dudes literally sit down and have a caucus deciding which passages sound like they were appropriately crafted between 1983 and 1987. Essentially, Warbringer sound like modernday Estring chuggaholic purists, and they've made a record that sounds exactly like slightly altered phrases from the early classics. Unlike new school thrashy bands such as Shadows Fall they don't dabble in metalcore, deathmetal, or anything except oldschool speed. Assisting these insanely specific and spoton recreations is the production work of Bill Metoyer, the noted knobtweeker behind early albums from Slayer, D.R.I., and Dark Angel. On the anthemic album opener (and likely live mainstay) \"Total War\", vintage Slayer and Exodus chunklets lock horns while blown out Dave Mustaine–like solos get WWF smackdowns via Kerry Kingesque dissonant tremolo bar dive bombs. Extra partydude testosterone comes courtesy of gangchorus backup vocals à la Anthrax. Elsewhere, \"Systematic Genocide\" begins with an intro a smidge too similar to key moments from Metallica tracks \"For Whom the Bell Tolls\", \"Trapped Under Ice\", and \"Creeping Death\", but it's then tickled with a little of Anthrax's \"Caught in a Mosh\".  Vocals and lyrics are also time machineauthentic, lyrically oscillating between quasi antiwar teenage deep thoughts and generic war slogans (\"kill with no remorse,\" \"shoot to kill,\" \"time to die,\" etc.) and vocal barks reminiscent of a youthful Tom Araya (Slayer) or Paul Baloff (Exodus). In a recent thrashrevival feature in Decibel mag Warbringer frontman John Kevill declared that they don't write about politics and even purposefully use incorrect grammar to make things sound more \"deranged.\" That's fairly appropriate from a sound steeped in mushroom clouds and invertedcrosses not always as a political or antireligous statement, but a fashion accouterment. As we slide into or, as some would say are already deeply in a recession, it's interesting to note that the bluecollar ethos of thrash metal (originally birthed in the cold war of Reagan's frightening version of GWB's fear politics) is back, loud and proud, and almost totally pretension free. (Goodbye metalcore whitebelt whinescream?) It's a welcome retreat, even if it comes at the price of some envelopepushing.  "}