{"label":" Columbia / Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10969/homepage_large.44848852.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Johnny Cash","title":"The Best of the Johnny Cash TV Show, 1969-1971","text":" Between 1969 and 1971, Johnny Cash spent his Saturday nights hosting a variety show for ABC. \"The Johnny Cash Show\" was shuffled in as a summer replacement for another songandskit show, \"The Hollywood Palace\", and featured Cash and his touring company: His wife June Carter, various members of the Carter Family, Carl Perkins, the Tennessee Three, the Statler Brothers, and a series of rotating guest stars (beginning, rather auspiciously, with the cameraloving Bob Dylan). Each of its 58 episodes were shot before a live audience in Nashville's legendary Ryman Auditorium, the former home of the Grand Ole Opry. It was the first network television show ever produced out of Nashville. At the time, Cash was hitting his popular and personal apex: At Folsom Prison had enjoyed a remarkable 92week run on the pop charts, a Grammy (Best Male Country Vocal) gleamed on his mantle, he was newly married, he was sober and devout. Johnny Cash was a rehabilitated outlaw, a Christian, a husband, a real, earnest American. And for home viewers in 1969, Cash was a welcome antidote to flagdraped coffins. A 2xDVD bestof featuring 66 of the show's musical performances was released in September; the punctuated CD version features 16 songs, including nine that didn't make the cut for the DVDs. The Best of the Johnny Cash TV Show is a remarkable collection, featuring live performances by Cash's country peers (Waylon Jennings, Bobby Bare, George Jones, Tammy Wynette, Kris Kristofferson) and, perhaps more compellingly, tracks from folk, pop, and rock superstars (Ray Charles, Joni Mitchell, Roy Orbison, Derek and the Dominoes). The CD's production is impressively fluid, given the source material (8track reels operating at halfcapacity, recorded from scattershot stage mics), and was lovingly remixed and remastered after the tapes were pulled from Cash's personal vault.  Some of the best bits include the presong banter before Waylon Jennings performs \"BrownEyed Handsome Man\", the former roommates rib each other gently: \"He was my cook,\" Jennings explains. \"Can you imagine Johnny Cash in a black suit with baking powder all the way down and gravy in the hair?\" \"I was a good cook,\" Cash retorts. \"You couldn't do nothing.\" Ray Charles' rich, sultry rendition of \"Ring of Fire\" is stunning, riddled with organ, piano, and brash horns; Charles' transforms the song from an obtuse acoustic tale into high drama. Joni Mitchell duets with Cash on \"Girl From the North Country\" (ironically, the same song Dylan performed for the show's opening night), while Cash and Lynn Anderson kick out a sprightly version of Geoff Mack's \"I've Been Everywhere\". Still, Cash's rendition of Carl Perkins' \"Daddy Sang Bass\" is the record's highlight. The track, which, occasionally dips into the Carter Family's legendary \"Will the Circle Be Unbroken?\", works as a parable for the entire twoseason run of \"The Johnny Cash Show\", with Cash intoning: \"We'd get together in a family circle, singing loud/ Daddy sang bass, Momma sang tenor/ And me and little brother would join right in there/ Cause singing seems to help a troubled soul.\"  Although anyone who's checked out the DVDs will find themselves maniacally restructuring the track list (it's not hard to assume that the label wanted a hook to get fans to buy both documents, padding the CD with a handful of secondtier, if still outstanding, cuts), The Best of the Johnny Cash Show is still a tough testament to the grand fluidity of American music. Cash acted as a perfect conduit for crossgenre pollination, and the class, race, gender, and regional divisions that plagued America in the late 1960s are rendered perfectly irrelevant here. "}