{"label":" Secret City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10979/homepage_large.03c5ade5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Plants and Animals","title":"Parc Avenue","text":"  Montreal's music scene is like a clown car: just when you think it couldn't possibly have room to contain any more talent, some more emerge. The City of Saints can already lay claim to Billboard charttoppers (Arcade Fire), Polaris Prize winners (Patrick Watson), punky Francophone ambassadors (We Are Wolves), nowave revivalists (Les George Leningrad), noise rockers (AIDS Wolf), rappers (Gage), electrofunk partystarters (Chromeo) worldly indie pranksters (Islands), plus all the members of Wolf Parade and their many side projects. And now it can add ambitious, sunbaked trio Plants And Animals to the ranks of its growing community of celebrated musicians. Like a distant Canadian cousin of Blitzen Trapper, this threepiece spins shaggy songs into expansive, genrebending symphonies. And though last year's toobrief  With/Avec EP hinted at Plants and Animals' expansiveness, it didn't fully prepare listeners for Parc Avenue, a sprawling collection of rootsy melodies, majestic arrangements, and classic rock riffs that owes as much to jamband psychedelia and it does to delicately orchestrated chamberfolk.  The album kicks off with \"Bye Bye Bye\", which sounds, initially, like a Coldplay ballad led by Neil Young. But, mere seconds into the song, it explodes into a choral epic built on a foundation of jaunty pianos and embellished with plangent autoharp runs and bursts of stately brass. Tellingly, the track's infectious climax is more satisfying because it comes in fits and starts, its anthemic build interrupted several times by quiet interludes of noodley folk.  That, in short, is Plants And Animals. They offer up explosive, Polyphonic Spreesized choir choruses, 1970s AM radio guitars, cozy folk balladry, and rambling stoner boogieoften in the course of one song and switch between them with little warning. Many of their songs clock in at over five minutes long, but that's all the better for them to pick up steam, stylistically mutate, or expand. \"Faerie Dance\", which also appeared on the EP, explores multiple genres and tempos within its sevenminute run. Its dreamy opening is marked by ethereal backing vocals, but then gives way to a wiry, disorienting guitar melody that churns in opposition to melodramatic strings. Just when you've given in to its postrock vertigo, a lackadaisically strummed guitar pushes the tune into slackerblues territory à la  Mellow Gold. Likewise, the album's centerpiece, \"Mercy\", marries a Phishlike guitar vamp and jazzy, cymbalheavy drumming to GoTeam!ish cheerleader chants and handclaps. Saxophone belches add some welcome hardedges to the looseygoosey jam, and singer Warren Spicer offers, as counterpoint to the chipper cheering, a growling Sean Connery impression.  Spicer's lithe tenor, in fact, proves malleable over the course of the album, adapting to dispassionate talksinging, raggedy country warbling, and arty, dramatic vibrato. His Beck impersonation on \"Faerie Dance\" is followed by \"Feedback in the Field\", on which he cops a convincing Tom Petty accent (\"Somethin' in the air tonyeite\"). \"New Kind of Love\" begins like a spare Iron & Wine ballad, but builds to theatrical, Arcade Fire levels of orchestral splendor. And on \"Sea Shanty\" which starts out like Ryan Adams' \"Amy\", minus the confessional selfpity, and evolves into meandering Lynyrd Skynyrdstyle Southern rock Spicer is able to affect a honeyed croon.  From its scrawled, lowercase liner notes (complete with mistakes and crossouts) to its sound, everything about Parc Avenue feels homemade. Its analog recording, which took place, in part, in Spicer's apartment, crackles with warmth and intimacy, and because the guest artists who fill out these orchestrations (including Arcade Fire/Bell Orchestre's Sarah Neufeld) are friends of the band, a sense of camaraderie prevails. Plants and Animals may not be the first band to put Montreal on the musical map, but, with this album's there'snoplacelikehome vibe, they are certainly the first to celebrate it so warmly.  "}