{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/10981/homepage_large.9a1bf60c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 9: 1969","text":"  The most famous recording from 1969 isn't a piece of music at all. It's a muffled, staticsoaked transmission from the moon, Neil Armstrong announcing that he'd taken a giant leap for all of mankind as he left the first footprints in the gray dust. What an odd time 1969 was in the U.S. Here we had a man walking on the moon while halfway around the world we had kids getting dropped in the jungle to be killed and maimed by bullets and punji sticks. Dozens of cities were still recovering from destructive riots (a few, including Detroit which saw rioting in 1967 never did) and we had new President Richard M. Nixon urging the \"Silent Majority\" to come forward and support an impossible war. Where had that giant leap for mankind actually taken us? If you were a poor, disenfranchised black man living in a Detroit neighborhood full of boardedup shops you could be forgiven for wondering. This was the very type of neighborhood Motown was busy vacating as the year dawned all that remained of the original Hitsville cluster of houses that served as the company's early headquarters was the Snakepit studio. The rest had moved downtown to a towering office building, forever altering the dynamic of the label's creative process. Even as the operation was moving downtown, Motown was already beginning its transition to Los Angeles, to where founder Berry Gordy had decamped the previous year without fanfare. 1968 had been a rough year for Motown, with the riots and the assassinations of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy serving as a backdrop for the legal proceedings that followed the rancorous departure of the label's most productive and successful songwriter/producer team, Holland Dozier Holland, in 1967. There was a sense, not unfounded, that Motown was falling a bit behind the curve, sticking to its guns as funk, psychedelia, and flower power passed it by. The hits were still coming, but the people in the trenches the producers, writers, and performers realized in 1968 that the signature Motown Sound needed to change and get with the times. That meant getting funkier, heavier, more topical, and taking better advantage of the album format that had previously ridden in the back seat while 45RPM singles drove sales.  The Supremes and the Temptations were the label's two banner acts, and they'd joined forces in late 1968 for a television special that ultimately spawned a couple of LPs and a raft of hit singles, not to mention a second TV extravaganza in 1969. Both acts had also ended the year with singles that were among Motown's most socially conscious to date the Supremes' childoutofwedlock narrative \"Love Child\" and the Temptations' thunderous psychedelic soul masterpiece \"Cloud Nine\". The latter, with its traded leads between all five voices, hard beat, and crunchy wahwah guitar, became the Aside blueprint for the Tempts and producer Norman Whitfield in 1969, from \"Runaway Child Running Wild\" (edited down from its nineminute LP runtime for the single) to the funkedup love song \"I Can't Get Next to You\". By the end of the year, they were off to the \"Psychedelic Shack\" and in the middle of a mindblowing run of hits.  The Supremes, on the other hand, were in for a world of change. They'd officially been Diana Ross & the Supremes since mid1967, and Gordy was deadset on breaking Ross out of the group and getting her solo career started. He spent most of the year looking for a high note for her to leave the group on, which finally came in October, when Johnny Bristol, who spent 1969 establishing himself as one of the label's top producers, dusted off an old gem he'd written in 1961 for himself and Jackey Beavers, \"Someday We'll Be Together\". It was a wistful, weightless track that became the label's last number one of the 60s and gave Ross her final peak with the Supremes, the other two of whom didn't even appear on the single.  It's narratives like this that HipO Select's Complete Motown Singles series follows so well you can listen to what each artist did each year, how the label chose followups to big hits, where the ups and downs were, and what the label tried that didn't work, all together in chronological order and with hugely informative notes for every release. It's these last two things that really spike the value of the sets almost everybody knows the hits, and soul collectors are bound to know the Bsides, but the forays into country and crooner records, halfhearted attempts to crack the rock market, and weird novelties tend to get lost in the shuffle.  Some get lost for a reason, of course. This set includes a single by Soupy Sales parodying \"MacArthur Park\" (which itself was written by former Motown songwriter Jimmy Webb) that is just not funny, and the \"punchin\" comedy routine \"The Luney Landing\", which features corny announcers asking questions of astronauts and receives answers in the form of brief song clips, is best forgotten. There are a few easy listening sides that don't wear very well either, but for sitting through each of these you get treasures in return. For instance, there are two brilliant singles by the Fantastic Four, a vocal group that regrettably never managed to get much attention during its time at the label. There is also a scattering of jazz instrumentals worth hearing.  Another thing that makes this set fascinating is that it catches Motown in fullfledged transition, casting a much wider net than usual and upgrading the equipment. Motown got its first 16track boards that year, and a cover of the Band's \"The Weight\" by Diana Ross & the Supremes and the Tempations became the label's first stereo single. Shorty Long and original Funk Brothers drummer Benny Benjamin both died far too soon, Harvey Fuqua and Billy Eckstine left, and the Marvelettes, Motown's first hit girl group, called it quits. Whitfield's aggressive new funk style paid dividends not only the Temptations, but for Marvin Gaye and Gladys Knight & the Pips as well, while Johnny Bristol was busy taking Junior Walker, long the personification of grit at Motown, in the other direction, sanding off the hardest edges to deliver a truckload of hits.  Two new labels joined the fold that year as well, essentially making 1969 the year Motown stopped dabbling in other sounds and started genuinely branching out. Hugh Masekela and Stewart Levine's Chisa label was founded in 1965 to promote African sounds in the U.S., and it became part of the Motown family in 1969. Actually, there aren't any African artists in the clutch of singles Chisa released that year, but there are a number of adventurous jazz and funk sides, including Monk Montgomery's wild electric basslead cover of Stevie Wonder's \"A Place in the Sun\". If only James Jamerson had been given a similar chance.  The other new label was Rare Earth, Motown's rock label, coined for a Detroit rock band of the same name that would become its flagship act. Early on, Rare Earth focused on licensing British and Australian rock singles for the U.S. market, including discs by the Pretty Things and the Easybeats (none of these are included here because Motown never owned them), but the intention was always to produce new material. Rare Earth's first single flopped, but it's worth hearing. The real gem from that label's first year, though, is former Vancouver Wes Henderson's \"In Bed\", b/w \"Reality\", a doublesided blast of psychedelic soul that's the closest thing to an answer to Hendrix Motown ever put out.  There are other tremendous sides lurking on these six discs. Chuck Jackson's \"Are You Lonely For Me Baby\" is a brilliant, funky song that hints at Southern soul and balances the heavy beat of its verses with a subdued chorus featuring the Andantes, Motown's longtime female backing vocal corps, singing the title. And Edwin Starr's first smash, \"TwentyFive Miles\", kicks the whole thing off with a stomping, powerhouse performance, both from Starr, who's at the peak of his screaming, grunting brilliance, and the Funk Brothers, who hammer home the song's fitting message of resolve to reach a goal. The goal in the song is a woman, but it could easily scan as a metaphor for Motown itself as the calendar flipped.  All of this is fantastic, but we haven't even gotten to the biggest seismic event of 1969 for Motown: the arrival of the Jackson 5. Gordy had been hearing about them from his artists for about a year, but remained skeptical, being generally against the concept of \"kids groups,\" as he called them. And then he heard them. This was no ordinary kids group they'd been drilled into a dynamic unit by their father, and they possessed a magnetic focal point in young Michael, who tackled adult lyrical themes with a range of expression well beyond his years. Deke Richards had been kicking around a song called \"I Wanna Be Free,\" intended for Gladys Knight & the Pips, but brought it to Gordy when the Five joined the label. A few rewrites later, it was \"I Want You Back\", an instant number one and one of the best debut singles ever.  Tellingly, \"I Want You Back\" was written, rehearsed, and recorded in L.A., and Gordy generally kept the Jackson 5 away from Detroit. The song's writing credit also went to The CorporationTM, a group of longtenured Motown writers (including Gordy) who'd previously credited themselves as the Clan several times. This L.A.centric approach and depersonalization of the credits to something called the Corporation, no less signaled a huge change for the company's way of doing business, and solidified the various arrows pointing toward the company's future out West. Crediting a song to the Corporation just a couple of months after Woodstock had reenergized the hippie movement also strikes me today as woefully out of step with the zeitgeist of the era Motown's own Temptations had scored a huge hit earlier that year with \"Don't Let the Joneses Get You Down\", a sharptongued takedown of rampant consumerism.  And in the end, the hippies carried the day, as far as popular memory is concerned. Motown had hit after hit in 1969, but perhaps the signature musical moment of the year came far away, on a farm in upstate New York, when Jimi Hendrix had his electrified way with the \"Star Spangled Banner\", a rendition that captured in the starkest possible terms the complex feelings that came with being an American. There we were on the moon, and there we were in Vietnam, and finding the thread between those things was tough. Motown couldn't find it either, but the label did regain its footing in 1969, and this set makes that fact undeniable.  "}