{"label":" Ignuitas","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11000/homepage_large.3fbe6f3a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Les Rallizes Denudes","title":"Eve Night","text":"  By now, readers are familiar with Julian Cope's 1995 book Krautrocksampler, which helped rekindle appreciation of postwar German psychedelia. Thing is, most of us have never had a chance to read it, as it's looooooong out of print (Amazon's best price as of this writing is $213.10). This mirrors problems with the experimental artists Cope writes about, who often cut smallrun releases for regional audiences. Listeners these days can now get reissued Ash Ra Tempel, but many readers will have to be contented with Cope's recentlyreleased companion piece Japrocksampler, which just so happens to feature a group of leftwing nuts named Les Rallizes Denudes. Just as with their German contemporaries, LRD remains shrouded in mystery. Formed in 1967 at Kyoto University and playing shows up until 1996, the group mingled dirgelike rhythms with piercing guitar feedback, which is easy to tell from the live document Eve Night. They incorporated acidwashed takes on sunny San Francisco psychrock and were always guided by avantgarde Japanese theatre. Their sound played a big part in fellow countrymen Acid Mothers Temple, as well as serving as a template for the likes of Flipper and the Melvins in the States. And Les Rallizes managed to do all this while hardly touching the studio. Instead, their legend has grown on the back of monolithic performances, deafening volume, and jarring lightshows. Mythically militant, the group was known for distributing Marxist propaganda at junior high schools, and bassist Moriaki Wakabayashi was involved in the hijacking of an airliner by extremist group Sekigun. They were a group of towering guitar riffs, hard psych, inscrutable vocals, and radical ideals that simply blew away the audiences of the postwar Japanese underground. Those who know LRD today most likely heard them via one of their many live records like Eve Night, some legitimate and some bootlegged, and the group's releases remain soughtafter collectors' items.  But what's the big deal with these guys? Many of their available releases are the worst of bootleg tripe: badly recorded college campus shows taken from the deck of an amateur sound engineer. But Eve Night is of particular interest because it's cut of a different sort than those backalley CDRs. The set, recorded at a Housei University show in 1983, is a good recording that catches the group on a damn good night. It's easier to hear the dynamic interplay between widely disparate vocals, rhythm, guitar, and bass than, say, Eve Night's concurrently reissued 1974 companion, Are You Rallizesed? The jams, which sometimes range over twenty minutes in length, tend to initially bear some resemblance to the 1960s California sound covered on the recent Rhino compilation Love Is The Song We Sing: San Francisco Nuggets 19651970, which features groups like Quicksilver Messenger Service, the Front Line, and the Dead. But the heavy machinations of Les Rallizes bear more in common with their hardpsych contemporaries Hawkwind. Eve Night is a wonderful document of the group not only because it's so clear, but because it catches the subtleties of their range, which is sometimes hard to hear in lowquality bootlegs. Singer Takashi Mizutani is never spectacular, and he often seems to be trying to be less than spectacular, but on cuts like their famous dirges \"Enter the Mirror\" and \"The Last One\", he affects the voice of a lonely, wandering spirit in the throes of an existential revelation. As counterpoint, LRD's superbly fuzzy guitar lead is the mark of a group that has transcended the blues, transcended drugs, and after sixteen years, remains in an impressionistic prime.  Ignuitas, the label that issued Eve Night, is similarly enigmatic. They don't have much in the way of PR, and their liner notes are frustratingly minimalist, but they've been releasing some great live LRD live shows for the last couple years. Perhaps the best thing about Eve Night is that it advances Stateside availability of LRD source material. Hopefully, it points towards the same kind of renaissance that made all those German stoners famous.  "}