{"label":" Basic Replay","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11001/homepage_large.31742ca3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Basic Replay","text":"  Germany's Basic Replay specializes in nearfacsimiles of reggae obscurities. Though it tends to focus on highlighting weirdness at the genre's margins, there aren't stylistic or regional boundaries on what the label reissues; though it primarily culls from the mid1970s to the mid80s, there's no tight historical scope, either. Basic Replay, the label's first CD compilation, collects a sampling of the 20 or so singles it's released since 2003. And though there's no real organizing principle at work, the compilation does a decent job of demonstrating how radically Jamaican music changed when the roots sound popular in the mid and late70s gave way to dancehall in the early to mid80s. Imagery in roots reggae, as the name suggests, was fixated on the past; its molassesthick, groaning sound suggestive of the trudge both physical and metaphysical back to Godsponsored homelands. Vocalists du jour tended to either be deep and foreboding (Prince Far I, Yabby You) or clumped into sweet, transportive trios (the Congos, the Mighty Diamonds, Culture); roots' productions sounded foggy and lumbering. By comparison, dancehall was dapper and uptempo, littered with sequenced drummachine sounds and digital frills. On Basic Replay, tracks like Jackie Mittoo's phantasmagoric \"Ayatollah\" or Keith Hudson's backtoloincloths fantasy \"Hunting\" rub against Prince Jazzbo's \"Replay Version\" or Ackie's \"Call Me Rambo\", a plasticky, mid80s production inordinately proud of its machinegun samples. What I've always loved about this era of Jamaican music is its aloof experimentalism. Like early hiphop, it's a record of a group of people confronted with a lot of technology they had no idea how to use. Instead of spending a lot of time with pedestrian tasks like \"figuring it out,\" they pushed a few buttons in the name of novelty, etched them into vinyl, and moved on to some new, inscrutable buttons. It's the DIY aesthetic without the selfconscious politics, or progressivism without the pretension of being progressive. The best music on Basic Replay shows how far a little courageous ignorance can go.  Reggae reissues tend to enter the market either in trickles from boutique imprints like Basic Replay, or the diarrheic, firehose force spray of repackages from Trojan or Greensleeves. With the smaller labels, it's customary to get a more lovingly curated, aesthetically pleasing product. Basic Replay's reissued singles tend to look exactly like the outofprint originals, logos and all, but with a small \"Basic Replay\" stamp. It's surprising and disappointing, then, that Basic Replay doesn't come with any liner notes. (Given the lack of chronology, it's really surprising to not have recording dates for the tracks.) And though I think it's a disservice to keep curious listeners in the dark as to a music's history (especially when it's an obscure history), it's hard not to concede to the magic of the music itself, which bubbles, squeals, and clangs around with the amazing gracelessness of an animal struggling to make sense of its brandnew body.  "}