{"label":" Rare Victory","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10999/homepage_large.9e799a57.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Love Goes On: A Tribute to Grant McLennan","text":" In Robert Forster and Grant McLennan, the GoBetweens boasted perhaps the most fruitful singer/songwriting partnership in 1980s indie, but even with their distinct characters and canons, they never asked you to pick sides. As foils they were as complementary as they were contradictory, Forster's arch, assertive delivery often serving as a front for a bruised sensitivity; McLennan's more genteel voice and agreeable melodicism often acting as decoys to his matteroffact observations and disarming punchlines. But even if McLennan wrote the kind of love songs that could become tough and unsentimental at the turn of a couplet, it was never for pure shock or subversive effect rather, it felt like sage advice for oldfashioned romantics in a world that has no time for them. News of McLennan's sudden passing in 2006 came with all the suckerpunch surprise as one of his lyrical twists, and it was particularly tragic in light of the fact that, since a 1999 reunion with Forster, the GoBetweens were once again a going concern. But there was some consolation in the fact that McLennan's death brought on by heart failure during an afternoon nap reflected the same quiet dignity he carried himself with in life and song. And it's this very spirit that Love Goes On seeks to honor. It says a lot about the intensity of admiration McLennan inspired that an obscure Long Beachbased microindie headed by superfan David Buckner could round up various indie luminaries (Stars, Portastatic, the Clientele) and longtime associates (the Bats, former Saints founder Ed Kuepper, Black Box Recorder's Luke Haines) to donate selffinanced covers to the album. (Though the project's modest means are unfortunately betrayed by Jack Rabid's linernote essay, which would've benefited from another round of proofreading to wit, \"Cattle and Cain\" [sic].)  Love Goes On smartly frontloads some of McLennan's lesserknown work before delving into his signature material, with the Clientele turning in a seductively swirling version of \"Orpheus Beach\" (from 2000's GoBetweens reunion album The Friends of Rachel Worth), and Ed Kuepper recasting \"Finding You\" (from 2005's Oceans Apart) as a solitary blues that's almost murderballadlike in its desolate air of despair. Kuepper's contribution is especially notable in that he's the only singer here operating well outside of McLennan's gentle, relaxed vocal register, adopting a deep, throaty tenor closer to fellow Aussie Nick Cave. The artists entrusted with McLennan's more revered songs tweak the material in much more subtle fashion. Stars pull the long straw by claiming arguably McLennan's greatest and most poignant song, \"Cattle and Cane\", and their take is actually more revelatory as a Stars track than a McLennan cover, with an uncharacteristically strippeddown acoustic arrangement and dry, unaffected vocal from Torquil Campbell that makes the original's themes of faded memory and lost innocence feel all the more present however, the closing, climactic charge to the finish line feels at odds with the original's muted melancholy. McLennan's other masterstroke of ordinarypeople portraiture, \"Streets of Your Town\", is likewise reduced by Ivy to a metronomeclick and piano figure, with Dominique Durand's coo lending it a newfound spaceage bachelorpad allure. The ageless integrity of McLennan's songwriting naturally encourages a simple approach one heard on everything from Portastatic's folkcircle adaptation of \"Bye Bye Pride\" to Haines' spectral, Elliott Smithlike treatment of \"You Won't Find It Again\" to Future Pilot AKA's dreamy pianolilted zoneout on \"Dusty In Here\". The net effect both emphasizes McLennan's lyrical charms, and liberates some of the GoBetweens' material from its occasionally dated 80s production (most notably, \"Bachelor Kisses\", whose softfocus surface is given a mild scuffing by UK songwriter Paul Handyside). The bittersweet inspiration and homespun origins of these covers means that Love Goes On is not really a forum for lofty reinterpretation, and in some cases the overly tasteful handling of the material (see: \"Haunted House\" by Brookville, aka Ivy's Andy Chase), can nudge the tracks toward Starbucksscented AC. Love Goes On feels most rewarding when approached as an intimate, quietly celebratory wake among friends and if the readings of their favorite McLennan songs are too faithful to warrant much revisiting in lieu of the originals, as the man himself once famously sang, \"faithful is not a bad word.\" "}