{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1115/homepage_large.b6bc018d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"A Band of Bees","title":"Free The Bees","text":" I wanted to write a concept review of The Bees' latest, if only because the best way to convey how shamelessly Free the Bees apes its antecedents would be to shamelessly ape Pitchfork alum Brent DiCrescenzo. Yet halfbaked imitation, no matter how conceptually apt, is a recipe for mediocrity. That's probably news to The Bees, whom you may have known as A Band of Bees on their debut, Sunshine Hit Me. Back then, the group was a duo, recording in a shed, and improbably following their Beta Bandlike flights of electropop fancy into tropicalia and even reggae. This time out, The Bees hunkered down in Abbey Road, with four new members and majorlabel backing. \"These are the ghosts I've made,\" sings Paul Butler on the opening track, but it sounds more like the studios' ghosts made him. Had I written my concept review, you'd be reading about how Inspector Pinot Grigio of Interpol (the agency, not the band, natch) apprehended master masterpieceforger Rolf Otterloo, the man behind highprofile fake Van Goghs, Gaugins, Mondrians and one work by Xu Beihong for a museum in Beijing. The only difference between a fake and an original work of art is in people's perception of them, the old copycat would say. The Inspector would bristle behind his martial mustache. Yet no amount of reverbdrenched vocals, acidflashback harmonies or Hammond organs can prevent The Bees from being a bunch of blokes from the Isle of Wight who happen to have better record collections than songwriting abilities. Listen: The White Stripes didn't become famous because they sounded like Led Zeppelin; they became famous because they wrote great songs. The Bees move from what amounts to The Creation and Skip Bifferty covers to the Rufus Thomas impression that is \"Chicken Payback\" without ever developing a personality. There's something offensive about a band that cops the pose of unadorned 60s garagerock and calls that an album. I expect affected earnestness from MTV emo bands, not the group that recorded \"Binnal Bay\". \"It's fake authenticity,\" the Inspector would declare. \"It's like all the architects imitating Greek friezes and columns in The Fountainhead, while Howard Roark went out and made true heroic buildings that actually belonged to his time. This one's a pretty love song, though... The Temptations meet The Penguins.\" \"It's called 'I Love You',\" Otterloo would reply, stooping over his antediluvian record player. \"Here, let me play you the single, 'Wash in the Rain'.\" \"They're so busy citing appropriately hip reference points that they don't have time to come up with memorable lyrics or melodies,\" the Inspector would retort, oblivious to the awkward unreality of the middleaged European detective as rockmusic scholar. \"'Try and I fail, and sometimes I even succeed'? Is this what passes for cleverness nowadays? Then again, at least they're not Ocean Colour Scene.\" There would be no struggle as the Inspector gently applied the handcuffs to his old nemesis. The strains of what sounded like the opening bars of \"Ticket to Ride\" would still be jangling from the battered old record player as the album spun to its last track. \"Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery,\" I would tell EditorinChief Ryan Schreiber via email, and he would fire back some terse reply that sewed up the whole ridiculous conceit. "}