{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11021/homepage_large.95fc5acc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Headlights","title":"Some Racing, Some Stopping","text":" Headlights probably aren't going to rewire your synapses or hip you to the new subgenre, and that's sort of why I feel bad I don't like them more than I do. Stacked up against an increasingly cluttered media climate, bands can sometimes slip through the cracks simply because the pleasures they offer don't translate well to oneliners and pithy blurbs especially when what sets them apart isn't style, ambition, or personality so much as warm, welcoming production and reasonably sharp hooks. This threepiece from Champaign, Ill., introduced themselves as another such sleeper band on 2006's Kill Them With Kindness: a varied, melodic indiepop debut album recalling New Pornographers, Grandaddy, and Stars.Some Racing, Some Stopping is another disc of unassuming, wellcrafted charms, sweetening its predecessor's already gentle brew with splashes of folkpop, altcountry, and 1960s girls groups. Erin Fein still trades her light, airy vocals with Tristan Wraight's indiedude murmurs, but here Wraight is more likely to be strumming an acoustic guitar than crunching out electric guitar chords. Headlights drummer Brett Sanderson helms the production, and like Death Cab for Cutie's Chris Walla, he proves himself able to get out of the way, so that chiming percussion, Fein's pealing keyboards, and even a bit of accordion by Decibully's Nick Sanborn can all pass by without calling attention to themselves for those who might dislike tweepop, synthpop, or accordion. Strings were the most grandiose thing about Kill Them With Kindness, opening the album in chamberpop finery; Some Racing, Some Stopping integrates orchestral touches more fully into the songs, none of which linger past the fourminute mark. Slog dutifully through as much selfimportant art music as we do and such restraint seems even more admirable, but it's hardly Headlights' greatest strength. Bands like Rogue Wave and Rilo Kiley also make clean, concise guitar pop that's easily palatable for everyone from indie kids to TV licensing crews to your aunt whose last musical purchase was Norah Jones the second one. But not since The Execution of All Things, or possibly not even then, has either band done anything as flatout pretty as Some Racing, Some Stopping's first mp3, the loveblissed \"Cherry Tulips\". See? That wouldn't be a pithy blurb.  Other songs aren't always as distinctive, but do have appeal. \"Towers\" is a slower song with a \"Cherry Tulips\"like arrangement, Fein singing softly about summer breezes and skinned knees, though all you'll probably remember is a wordless \"ahh ahh\" or \"ooh ooh\" here or there. Sanderson's drumming fills the air with hihats and earlyBeatles snares on \"On April 2\", while the strippeddown title track gracefully confirms that Some Racing, Some Stopping refers to, aww, hearts. \"So Much for the Afternoon\" is dreampop that glides by like a lazy summer Sunday.  That tendency to drift, to fade into the background, is part of what makes the album such an effortless listen, but it also makes some tracks unremarkable. With ringing, wistful acoustic guitar, \"Market Girl\" could be a latterday Death Cab for Cutie song, though Wraight's vocal and lyrics are both more anonymous than I'd expect from Ben Gibbard. And Wraight's whispers are jarringly Elliott Smithlike on plodding nadir \"January\", one of the rare moments on the album where a single element calls attention to itself at the expense of the track as a whole. Some Racing, Some Stopping is the kind of record, in other words, that you'd expect casual listeners to enjoy and critics to unfairly malign. Like I said, I'm not thrilled about it, but I don't think I'm being unfair. For all the giddy heights of \"Cherry Tulips\", it's hard to imagine many people ending a hard day rushing to their headphones so they can lose themselves in opener \"Get Your Head Around It\", where Wraight sings, \"The things I will keep/ Are never in my sleep.\" If you can stick to moderation, the album has its share of contentments and a couple of real delights, too.  "}