{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1116/homepage_large.6409e300.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"A Band of Bees","title":"Sunshine Hit Me","text":" Infographic: Why do we love British music so much? Anglophilia slightly more socially acceptable than necrophilia Want to support our noble allies in the perennially impending war by funding music industry Lingering colonial Stockholm Syndrome manifesting itself in our collective musical taste Not satisfied with fauxslang from The Hipster Handbook Or maybe, just maybe it's because the UK is such a damn little fertile isle for the development of music, as evidenced by their decadeslong hold on various levels of American listeners. Right now, for instance, the Union Jack is doing little business on the Billboard charts, but is being fetishized below the radar for evolutiontree offshoots like the garage scene and mashups. Have you heard of this guy called The Streets? A great deal of this Transatlantic love seems to be a result of British talent for making stylistic casserole, taking a pink eraser to the lines between genres. Which is where The Bees come in, a hardtocategorize group that shares much of their aesthetic with Astralwerks mates The Beta Band and Simian. Ostensibly a rock band in its foundations, The Bees (known in the U.S. as A Band of Bees, due to some hott legal action) stirs in elements from a wide variety of sources, including tropicalia, dance music, and 70s soundtrack soul. It's all summed up nicely by the cover at the chewy nougat center of Sunshine Hit Me, a conservative runthrough of Os Mutantes' \"A Minha Menina\". Like those frenzied Brazilians, The Bees excel at wadding up disparate elements into a vaguely psychedelic sound containing a believable tropical flair despite hailing from the Isle of Wight, which grainy festival footage suggests is hardly Rio. Bear witness, for example, to \"No Trophy\", a reggae that somehow circumvents Official Pitchfork Policy of loathing that entire genre. It's the fine opener \"Punchbag\" that steals the show here, however, growing from a music box Rhodes figure into a piece of dreamy microhouse that utilizes a nearglitch bassline and glassbottle percussion that could've been lifted from a Prefuse 73 track. Similar elements frolic through \"Angry Man\", though this time with vocals that more clearly recall Curtis Mayfield than Wayne Coyne, and rich organ adding polyester strut. As the disc plays on, though, the tempo drops, and with it the score. The second half of the disc misguidedly trades in the eccentricities of the above tracks for pianofocused atmospherics and analog chillouts, reducing the affair to competent and inoffensive (if not terribly interesting) backdrops like those of Zero 7. Whereas the Side A instrumental \"Sunshine\" nicely breaks the gettingtired Moon Safari mold with moments of loose jazzrock jamming, the backloaded quartet of downtempo numbers that ends the album does so on a breezily hookless note.Sunshine Hit Me does, however, remain an aboveaverage production of reasonable merit, further proof that Astralwerks seems to have cornered the market on decent, but not quite excellent rock/electronic hybrid bands with potential. To wit, The Bees show signs of having creative reserves deep enough to power a long career; whether that career will be in pushing boundaries of genre collision or scoring commercials for text messaging remains to be seen. Still, their debut album has a handful of singles suitable for airplay in that Clear Channelfree wonderland of Engerland, singles good enough to quicken the breath of those of us whose toes curl at the site of a \"UK import\" sticker. "}