{"label":" Table of the Elements","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11037/homepage_large.51ef0c73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Rhys Chatham & His Guitar Trio All-Stars","title":"Guitar Trio Is My Life!","text":"  If the most pure rock'n'roll is all about excess, emancipation, and sexuality, then 55yearold Parisian composer Rhys Chatham makes Mick Jagger seem like a Sunday school teacher: Chatham's second 3xCD box set for Table of the Elements, Guitar Trio is My Life!, collects 10 performances from Chatham's 2007 14city North American tour. Every night, Chatham and a different ensemble of musicians performed his most famous work, 1977's \"Guitar Trio\", twice. It's about time: For too long, Chatham's massed guitars have been a footnote to those of the more famous Glenn Branca. But Branca like Sonic Youth's Lee Ranaldo and Thurston Moore, Swans' Michael Gira and Jonathan Kane, and the Modern Lovers' Ernie Brooks, many of whom appear here was an early student of and member in Chatham's New York ensembles. This exhausting, exhilarating collection, though, should confirm both Chatham and \"Guitar Trio\" as staples in the rock and 20th cenury composition canons. At the very least, from the first E note to the last E chord three hours later, it proves that Chatham also significant for his curatorial role at New York's The Kitchen in the 70s and in the establishment of No Wave later that decade fucking rocks. The \"Guitar Trio\" score is deceptively simple: \"In this century, it has never taken more than an hour to teach 'Guitar Trio' to everyone's satisfaction and comfort level,\" Chatham wrote in the score notes circulated for the 2007 tour documented by Guitar Trio Is My Life! \"So please don't worry about anything.\" Several guitar players gather around a drummer and an electric bassist. Their amps are clean, loud, and high on treble. The drummer counts off, and Chatham strums an open low E string, his rhythm a bit like a jumpy 60s Brit Invasion tune. The drummer plays a cantering, steady rhythm restricted to the hihat. One by one, Chatham signals each guitarist to join. The bassist enters. After several minutes, Chatham begins strumming the top three strings and then signals each guitarist to do the same. Later, Chatham begins strumming all six strings, fretting only the second string to B. Eventually everyone stops playing except the drummer, still using only hihat, and Chatham, again playing one string. The entire process repeats, and it's generally a bit briefer the second time around. The music fades out with a final chord played on a conclusive downbeat. Chatham announces the ensemble, bows, turns to his band, and starts again in the exact same way. Except this time, the drummer is given use of his full kit, especially the snare and kick drums. The only previous version of \"Guitar Trio\" (available on the longsince outofprint 2002 box set An Angel Moves Too Fast to See and on the 2006 disc Die Donnergötter) was eight minutes long (first cycle only). The shortest take on Guitar Trio Is My Life! is the second Brooklyn cycle, which ends after 16 driving minutes. But the \"Guitar Trio\" sound is surprisingly dynamic: Chatham does not specify when any given player should play above any given fret or for what length of time. Such inherent indeterminacy means that what begins as a stately, strummed guitar pattern begins to mutate and grow into surprising shapes. This variety of sounds builds cumulatively into a thick swath of high and low overtones bouncing off of each other like longlost kin at a crowded family reunion. All of the sounds are made from the same E string or E chord, but none of them are exactly the same. By the time \"Guitar Trio\" hits its sixstring segment, it's as thick as a furious blizzard. When the notes really come down, it's beautiful and overwhelming.  Still, 10 versions of the same 16to30 minute piece of music? Boring, right? Perhaps were it not for the musicians included here from members of Tortoise, Sonic Youth, and Thee Silver Mt. Zion to an unknown but incredible Buffalo drummer named Jim Abramson, who gloriously mauls his 21 minutes of Table of the Elements time on Disc One. \"Guitar Trio\" ingests individual talents and funnels them into a composition loose enough for new ideas but tough enough to test physical and mental limits: On the fulldrum version from Toronto, then, you get a sixpiece string section (including Final Fantasy's Owen Pallet), thickening the guitar sound into a viscous smear. But after the onestring turnaround, it sounds like Chatham's worn them out. Same for Tortoise's John McEntire, who turns in the best brassonly drumming with his Chicago performance, riding his hihat with impeccable time and finesse. But he gets lost inside the nineguitar storm on the fullkit version, unlike improvisational heavyweight and Collections of Colonies of Bees drummer Jon Mueller. Like he does on this year's solo drum Table of the Elements release Metals, Mueller rattles speakers from the frame. His kick drum and heavy snare slap fearlessly. They lash at the six guitars like the only way out is revenge. Same for Ernie Brooks' bristling bass pops on the second set from Brooklyn: With a rhythmic sense that sounds like whiplash must feel, he folds his own aesthetic beneath Chatham's masterful umbrella work.  When considered alongside Chatham's statement that he can teach anyone this piece in an hour, such variety is exhilarating. \"Guitar Trio\" was composed after Chatham, then a New York composer taking a somewhat academic approach to minimalism, saw the Ramones play CBGB. Their music shocked him into redirecting his sonic approach within his own preexisting ideas. The result is glorious, onechord, electroorchestral, garageband minimalism. Anyone can learn this music. Anyone can play this music. Anyone can enjoy this music, rhythmically and tonally electrified as it is. This is a popular inroad for both understanding and participating in sound fields generally relegated to academia. \"Guitar Trio\" suggests infinite possibilities for this music, for all music, really: If you can combine basic \"punk\" ideas with basic \"classical\" ideas to create something that will forever alter the shape of both memes (see Sonic Youth and Glenn Branca), what can't you do?  "}