{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11044/homepage_large.34e8f4a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Ghost","title":"Overture: Live in Nippon Yusen Soko 2006","text":" The Japanese band Ghost are the hippies and the ashram rolled into one. They are at once the seekers and the source of mysterious, mystical art. Led from from tattered subways to temple rubble, flutes to feedback, by their guru Masaki Batoh, their constant motion also allows them to easily elude the reviewer's labels. Not surprisingly, they get lumped in with the psychedelic rockers. It is easy to forget that, before Ghost's stylings puffed over the Pacific like a bloom of hashish smoke, an Eastern echo of King Crimson and Cluster, these six artists chased after a different form of transcendence: improvisation.Overture: Live in Nippon Yusen Soko 2006, their first entirely improvised release, draws a sharper picture of these early days. Actually, it is multimedia: apocalyptic Powerpoint rather than nostalgic Polaroid. (There were even projectors at the venue.) A Yokohama warehouse for mailboats, now an art gallery, lent the eerily vacant, urbancavern space proper to a Ghost show. Each of the members stood behind tall curtains, veiled from the audience and from each other. A reverent silence was the rule. \"Once the door is closed,\" the crowd was told, \"you cannot enter or exit the space until the performance is ended.\" And the boom of the iron door shutting is the record's first sound. As soon as that crash rumbles outward, trailed by a moment of quiet, we sense how perfectly the acoustic properties of the warehouse suit the band's art. That expanse, that tangible nothingness, is more than negative space. It envelops you like the clouds and waves wrap around Winslow Homer's lonely boaters, making them somehow lonelier and that loneliness more heroic. Likewise when Michio Kurihara lays siege to the venue's architectural emptiness with his electric guitar, it feels like a struggle against cosmic emptiness. Ultimately that is the mood of Overture. While it does feel introspective, this wandering inward is no cakewalk: it is a bumpy travel through turmoil and discord and nonstop tension. Every element seems to partake in this shakiness. Cymbals and shakers tinkle in the shadows, a steady radiation of yellowwallpaper delirium that never quite lets up. Meanwhile, battling out center stage, you always find a brilliant rivalry of sensibility. Taishi Takizawa's saxophone reels out these stretchedout ribbons of filmnoir sadness, for instance, which calmly coexist with Kazuo Ogino's lute as a union of the country and the city, the forest and the dark alley. Any instrument, any musician, can go from Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Hyde without warning. One minute, Takizawa's playing is sober and serene; the next it assumes a frantic, trashcompacted quality that is nearer in spirit to free jazz. The same goes for Ogino's piano improvisations, which unfold without drama at many points, only to incarnate it, in fullon Max Steiner mode, at others. While it may not push the band's aesthetic forward, Overture serves as a document of the band's astonishing evolution. Batoh has drafted the old gang, from Takizawa to Ogino to Kurihara, and recreated the searching, schizophrenic vibe of their selftitled debut. Beyond merely evoking their beginnings, the record follows their restless quest for a higher consciousness: from the idyllic, acidfolk woodwinds and fingerpicking to the more brooding and hypnotic Krautrock rhythms, rewinding all the way back to the AMM order and Colemanesque chaos of their jamsession roots. Overture may not attract longtime fans, who have already experienced this variety. Nevertheless, even at 56 minutes, this is a warpspeed tour of Ghost's 20year history of genre bending and blending. "}