{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11053/homepage_large.85a9ec29.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2008","text":" Kompakt's Pop Ambient series is in some kind of impressive stasis. The label's prominence and a growing critical reputation have yet to elevate the awareness of the series to those not predisposed to German electronic music. But Pop Ambient 2007 offered the previously unthinkable: a breakout star. The Field's \"Kappsta\" was the standout track on PA07, nominally the album's least ambient tune but its most pop. \"Kappsta\" helped kickstart the Field's impressive 2007, a year highlighted by as much crossover indie success as a lowkey sound architect could ever expect. If ever there were a year for the Pop Ambient series to stake a bigger foothold in the experimental and pop music consciousness, 2007 would've been it. It's perhaps with this missed opportunity in mind that Kompakt constructed Pop Ambient's 2008 edition, which with 10 of its 12 tracks provided by artists featured on last year's model (including, no joke, \"Kappsta 2\") is as much Pop Ambient 2007: II as an entirely new entry into the series. It's clear, though, that Pop Ambient is less a showcase for new talents and more an annual hello from the draftiest corners of Kompakt's roster. Pretty flowers, pretty tones, etc.: Pop Ambient volumes have always benefited from an homogeneity of tempo and wordless sprawl, such that they have always felt very \"albumy.\" PA08 is no different, though if it differs from the other volumes even PA07 it is due to an ever so slight shift towards rhythm and beats. The warm, sunrise tones that so many of Pop Ambient's tracks have employed are still present, but they more often congeal into patterns that suggest a throbbing or pulsing, if not propulsion or percussion. All (Wolfgang Voigt)'s \"Sag Alles Ab\" is a sly, hypnotic break; Thomas Fehlmann's \"Camilla\" bandies about before finally welcoming in a shallow bass pounding. Markus Guentner's \"Oceans Day\" is all treated guitar brushing against a long drone, but the lapping click that sits under the surface sets it apart. \"Kappsta 2\" improves on its predecessor by sharpening the lines of the vocal loop and adding a muffled kick drum sound to further distinguish the track's linear movement.  Elsewhere, the composers play with the seasons and sort of generally make good on the ornate foliage that adorns the cover: Klimek's \"The Ice Storm\" is the most aptly named track here, and perhaps the most dynamic as well. A string section waxes in and out of focus as a sharp, highpitched melody plays over the top producing an effect not unlike William Basinski's looped orchestrations. DJ Koze provides a summery counterpoint with \"Nymphe Und Schäfer\", using a similar loop but placing it under vinyl crackle and an unobtrusive field recording of insects.  Still, though, with the weight of seven preceding volumes on its shoulders, PA08 can't afford the uninspired soundwash of Ulf Lohman's \"My Pazifik\" or Popnoname's \"Fembria\". Pop Ambient has grown into a bit of institution, a haven for listeners dipping their toes into accessible ambient music or for dedicated electronic fans seeking calm water. PA08 does nothing to distract from this purpose, nor does it expand upon it. Stasis, right: Pop Ambient's glacial progression as a series mimics the \"nothing to see here folks, move along\" rallying cry of the artists it houses.  "}