{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1118/homepage_large.216a339e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"By the End of Tonight","title":"Fireworks on Ice EP","text":" If By the End of Tonight's music career ever goes south, the band have a fallback: Their website advertises a vast selection of custom AOL buddy icons, which could be put up for sale if the Alvin, Texas quartet were in a pinch. The designs are mostly Kid Pixlike in their apathetic simplicity and garish color schemes, but at a time when cellphone ringtones are a multibillion dollar business, there's surely a market for these lurking somewhere. For now, By the End of Tonight are more likely to profit from their music. Instrumental postrock field isn't exactly a lucrative field, but the folks at Temporary Residence have made a run at industry monopolization, building a formidable roster of the genre's most prominent slogrockers. Joining a fray that already includes Explosions in the Sky, Cerberus Shoal, The Anomoanon, and Lumen, By the End of Tonight are set to succeed just by dint of good company. It may help that they play highenergy, lowmaintenance variations on established postrock and speedmetal mores that should appeal to fans weary of Explosions' static soundscapes or Lumen's proggy grandiosity.Fireworks on Ice, the group's debut EP, is a wildly uneven foursong collection, full of mammoth peaks, sheepish lows, fatuous showmanship, and unfettered enthusiasm. \"Sleeping While Driving Prevents Old Age\" reconciles two different approaches the band explore individually elsewhere slapdash metal and melodic postrock and is probably the most accurate representation of where By the End of Tonight are headed with their sound. It's also the album's shortest track, one that underscores the band's mercurial style: For nearly three minutes, the song dabbles in transient guises, heavy on competent but confrontational riffs that fail to take hold. Then, feigning exasperation, the band begin to fall apart and fade away before coming together again for a transcendent denouement that both surprises and elucidates. It's worth mentioning that drummer Jeff Wilson plays a toy drum set not an entrylevel knockoff, mind you, but the kind of quasiinstrument given as Christmas presents to ignorant toddlers. For such a skilled timekeeper, it's unlikely that Wilson chooses to use inferior equipment out of necessity but, though the approach may smack of gimmickry, he nevertheless manages to coax powerful beats from his ramshackle cans. More often than not, Wilson transcends his limitations, ripping dexterous tom rolls redolent of Billy Cobham in his Mahavishnu Orchestra years. Unfortunately, the drums do present a problem on \"Delirious\", a boxy, somewhat shrill piece that utilizes spare, dissonant guitar lines. In contrast to other tracks, the band here sound pitifully thin, as a surfeit of double bass riffage detracts from the stark guitar interplay, asphyxiating all semblance of melody. \"Delirious\" may demonstrate that By the End of Tonight can't always control their impulses, but the rest of Fireworks on Ice is full of promise. Least ambiguous of the collection is \"Video Games in the Desert\", which is closer in proximity to bands like Converge than By the End of Tonight's Temporary Residence brethren. Here, the kickdrum flourishes and the gargantuan tom fills that hinder \"Delirious\" actually complement the interlocking guitar melodies, which vacillate between unabashed metal noodling and discordant arpeggios that trace directly back to Daydream Nation. But the unquestionable highlight is the nearly 11minute closer, \"It's Christmas Time Again...\", which owns all the aforementioned qualities and hints at the band's fantastic potential. Unlike the other three songs on the disc, it features less highwire speedmetal monkeyshine and more martial unison maneuvers, monolithic guitar fronts, and agile transitions. Over the course of three distinct movements, it becomes clear that if By the End of Tonight helm their strengths and become more forthright with their melodies, they'll be a sure boon to a stagnating postrock field. "}