{"label":" Slender Means Society / States Rights","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11067/homepage_large.53331057.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Idol Fodder","title":"B채bytalk","text":" Were it not for some very modern production values, Idol Fodder's B채bytalk would sound like a lost relic from the heady days of postpunk, before the cultural moment's unruly stylistic improvisation crystallized into a genre defined by upstroked guitars and neoMarxist lyrics. It's a madcap hybrid of jumprope pop and baroque chamber music that draws a zigzagging line between Arthur Russell, Young Marble Giants, the Homosexuals, and outlying points. And it does this while remaining direly infectious: no mean feat, in a lineage prone to prioritizing experimentation over userfriendliness. If the record sounds like a remarkably authentic reconstruction of the wideeyed, freewheeling energy that attended the lofi British postpunk of the early 1980s, it's because Alig Pearce is no newcomer to this musicwithoutborders thing. During postpunk's first indefinable wave, he was always on the periphery of the zeitgeist with his rotating ensemble Family Fodder. He collaborated with This Heat and recorded in their practice space. He released an early single on Small Wonder, the same label that first issued Bauhaus's \"Bela Lugosi's Dead\" and the Cure's \"Killing an Arab\". He flipped the mandatory dub and tapemanipulation experiments on Family Fodder's debut, Monkey Banana Kitchen, and beyond the mandatory reunions, they were done by 1983. That Idol Fodder unites Pearce with Darlini SinghKaul, the daughter of Family Fodder vocalist Dominique Levillain, roots the album even more firmly in Cold Warera aesthetic rebellion. While Alig has remained active over the past couple of decades, Idol Fodder most overtly picks up where Family Fodder left off, exploring ways to make the baroque go pop. B채bytalk is dominated by peppy singsong vocals and deep, dramatic string rhythms, but each track delights with its creative deployment of these cornerstones and surprising embellishments. On \"The Onliest Thing\", Pearce and SinghKaul's twinned vocal lines ride a steadily sawing, bowed chord, and beyond an electric guitar bridge and some handclaps, all of the track's considerable interest resides in the contrast between the jackbooted strings and the fluid vocal line. It complements, yet in no way predicts, the next track, \"Earlimusix\", an inwardspiraling meditation for reed instruments. This is a band that knows how to milk one good idea for all of its undiluted worth. B채bytalk is the sixth installment in the Pregnancy Series cocurated by Slender Means and States Rights, and its babycentric theme represents a literal take on the series' ambiguous concept. Idol Fodder thankfully avoid \"wittle bitty snoogy ookums\" kinda talk, but they come close on \"The Onliest Thing\", a pledge of fealty to a newborn. The ironbanded durability of the track saves it from undue preciousness, and while the babytheme isn't developed that interestingly, it never gets in the way of the diverse, sharp songwriting. \"Strangest Games\" is a jetblack noir for creeping percussion, funerary vocals, and gloaming strings flecked with reversed glissandos; hot on its heels is \"Infamy\", a tumbling, crispyfried pop rock ditty. SinghKaul's bouncingball vocal melody on \"Analyze my Life?\" finds a perfect analogue in a robust jew's harp rhythm, and on \"Death and the Maiden\", Pearce sounds like Stuart Murdoch fronting the Kronos Quartet. The outsized charisma of the musicians holds their stylistic wanderlust fast at the seams, and their steadfast refusal to decide what kind of band they are reminds us of a cultural moment when to do so was considered tantamount to creative suicide.  "}