{"label":" Shout! Factory","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11080/homepage_large.786c9059.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"In the Name of Love: Africa Celebrates U2","text":"  The comedian Ricky Gervais likes nothing better than slaughtering sacred cows, and on last year's \"BBC Comic Relief\" telethon, it was rock star dogooders on charitable holiday in Africa he tagged the illfated heifer. In a brilliant bit, he fakes a selfrighteous visit to Kenya, meeting with a poor villager who calls a cassette of U2's The Joshua Tree \"one of his most prized possessions.\" \"When my brother was in the hospital,\" relates the fake villager, \"the doctor played him this cassette.\" Gervais sheds a (fake) tear. \"Africa Celebrates U2\", proclaims the subhead of In the Name of Love, a collection of diverse African acts covering the Irish rock band, but that seems generally unlikely outside of this comp. Indeed, the notion of African acts paying tribute to U2 initially is a bit hard to swallow as much more than a gimmick, as if the rock band has made such pervasive inroads across the continent to ever be cited as a real influence. That the tribute to the music of such notorious dogooders is itself a benefit, with proceeds going to the Global Fund (to fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria) provides an awkward element of irony, however well intentioned. Yet against all odds, In the Name of Love is no hackwork, and the hodgepodge of acts gathered together do represent some of Africa's highest profile musicians, at least in terms of crossover power. Even more laudable, the disc makes a point of delineating just where each performer is from, avoiding the patronizing habit of those who thoughtlessly rope together almost one billion people like they're all from one country. There's Vieux Farka Touré (from Mali), Tony Allen (from Nigeria), Les Nubians (from Cameroon), Cheikh Lô (from Senegal), the Soweto Gospel Choir (from South Africa), Sierra Leone's Refugee AllStars (from Sierra Leone, natch), and several more (though, oddly enough, no one representing North Africa, or even specifically Morocco, site of some sessions for U2's upcoming 12th album).  All the songs, save Vusi Mahlasela's \"Sometimes You Can't Make It On Your Own\", come from U2's prolonged prePop golden period, and over half from the twin classics The Joshua Tree and Achtung Baby, which makes sense, given the respective (global?) ubiquity of each album. In fact, most of the tracks here fall on the familiar side of the U2 catalog, leaving it up to each act to suss out a new take on old standbys.  They do a pretty good job, too, and while nothing here is totally unrecognizable, a few tracks are reasonably inspired. Tony Allen transforms \"Where the Streets Have No Name\" into sunny, funky, hornpropelled Afrobeat lite. Vieux Farka Touré injects more desert blues into \"Bullet the Blue Sky\" than U2 ever managed. The Soweto Gospel Choir accomplish something similar with \"Pride (In the Name of Love)\". After all, no selfrespecting gospel choir would ever tap Bono as a member, no matter how hard he tries, so it's neat to hear pros achieve what the singer can only simulate.  Elsewhere, Angelique Kidjo reimagines \"Mysterious Ways\" as an AfroCaribbean hybrid, and Les Nubians twist \"With or Without You\" into a stylish and modern Afropop ballad. The kora and wahwah guitar mix in Ba Cissoko's \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" and Cheikh Lô's talkingdrum and fretless bass adorned \"I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For\" are pretty convincing. The African Underground AllStars' hiphop version of \"Desire\" isn't, but their collective heart is clearly in the right place.  Not every track is a cover of a chart smash. The Sierra Leone AllStars successfully tackle the martial \"Seconds\", from War, taking advantage of the original's reggaeish bass run but pairing it with a jittery, percussionheavy dance groove rather than militant rhythms. And concluding the disc is Waldemar Bastos' haunting version of the bleak Achtung Baby finale \"Love is Blindness\", with the original's powerdrill guitar solo replaced with some strained, pained vocals.  That the interpretations here are more interesting than essential, revealing few new facets of artist and song alike, is to be expected, especially when dealing with such (like it or not) iconic source material. But the fact that In the Name of Love handles such a potentially pitfallrich project without any major stumbles and no groaninducing \"play the rumba, Edge!\" moments is perhaps good enough. "}