{"label":" Perlon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11089/homepage_large.8cfd9caf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Melchior Productions","title":"No Disco Future","text":"  Repetition has always been Thomas Melchior's forte. Like any good minimalist, he knows how to drive a point home by tapping away, favoring patience over force. And after tapping away, in his inimitable style, for a long time now, he's made the best record of his career. That doesn't mean that Melchior makes \"minimal,\" much less what might once have been called \"microhouse.\" Yes, he favors a strippeddown palette, usually just a couple of drum machines and analog (or virtual analog) synthesizers, judiciously fleshed out with a captivating vocal sample. (No Disco Future, Melchior's second solo fulllength, is one of his first productions using Logic software; previously he programmed everything into hardware sequencers.) But house music, in its origins, was more authentically minimalist than most of what flies under the banner of \"minimal\" today, if only by virtue of necessity: Most of Chicago house's classic tracks made do with a handful of machines at most. What has always driven Melchior's productions is less a fetish for reduction than an affinity for AfroAmerican dance music's lean aesthetic, bumping and flexing down a road potholed with silence. Melchior's economical sense of the groove descends directly from early 1990s pioneers like Ron Trent, Chez Damier, and Blaze (in their \"Lovelee Dae\" phase). His beat structures swung, skippy, with rubbery bass lines beneath and highflying \"wildpitch\" ostinatos above don't seriously deviate from blueprints drawn two decades ago. What he brings to the music is an esoteric sense of sound design and an irresistibly hypnotic charge. Melchior was born in Germany but spent much of his adulthood in London, before returning some years ago to Berlin. He got his start, in the early 90s, making acid, house, techno, and unusually danceable IDM in the duos Yoni and Vulva, for the labels Source and Rephlex, as well as working alongside the UK's house and techno pioneer Baby Ford in groups like Soul Capsule and Sunpeople. Melchior's multinational background goes some way towards explaining the unique character of his sound, just as his childhood education in Rudolf Steiner's unconventional Waldorf Schools suggests the origins of his dryly psychedelic, almost mystical approach to sound sculpting. (Fun fact #1: Sufjan Stevens is a fellow Waldorf alum. Fun fact #2: Melchior is a nonironic student of astrology.)  For listeners acquainted with Melchior's earlier works, like his 2004 Playhouse album The Meaning and his various singles for Perlon, much of No Disco Future will sound familiar at first. He still makes the most out of an electronic drum kit that's been pared down to kick, snare, hihats, handclaps, a clave or shaker or two and very little else. As always, his tumbling rhythms are both headstrong and reserved, as though pulling in two directions at once. (Like Matthew Herbert's, Melchior's beats follow their own time, not the MIDI clock's.) He still favors stubby bass lines that stumble around the tonic, and he still uses synthesizers as though they were watercolors, splashing color here and there like a particularly slapdash Fauvist. Often, his melodies are only implied, pieced together out of carefully tuned drums and samples to suggest a continuity that's only half there. Listening to Melchior feels more active than usual because he invites you to do half the work.  Perhaps most crucially, he still uses voices usually speaking, not singing to add a human element to his music. Often, the words or phrases are so indistinct to be meaningless, but their cadence adds an incalculable sense of life and breath to the tracks. (Not that the music would sound inhuman without them; skeptics who persist in criticizing electronic dance music for being cold, or programmatic, owe themselves some time with Melchior's fraught, fallible grooves: the white noise off his hihats alone burns hotter than your average indie fourpiece.) Elsewhere, as with the titular phrase of \"Coming Up\", repetition blunts the words' signifying power, opening up a world of free associations. When, on \"The Hypnotist\", a woman intones, over and over, \"People smiling,\" and a man responds, equally deadpan, \"A nice warm feeling,\" you don't think of smiling people, or warm feelings: you just zone out on the assonance, transported by the mantra.  Compositionally, though, No Disco Future is a major step forward for Melchior. He's taken a penchant for the vertical axis accidental harmonies that arise from piling tone on top of tone and welded it to an increased focus on the long, horizontal line. \"Prepare for Love\", the album's opening cut, may lay out a familiar, shimmying groove, but it coats it in a layer of honeyed melody unlike anything he's done before. Like a melting sitar, it drizzles down over a fourbar structure in such a way that you can't tell where it begins and ends; it suffuses everything. \"Her Majesty\" follows a similar tactic, this time with slowly blooming pads vaguely reminiscent of the melancholic changes of Ricardo Villalobos' \"Dexter\". \"Don Juan\" represents Melchior's first foray into (quasi)tango, with a backmasked accordion line that encloses its rollicking rhythms and Cubansounding vocals in a kind of protective cocoon, while the closing \"Water Soul\" swirls together strings, piano, and coolly ecstatic vocals in a manner recalling Melchior's collaboration with Luciano, 2006's \"Father\"/\"Solomon's Prayer\".  Ultimately, all of this is academic: either it grabs you or it doesn't. And No Disco Future grabs: it grabs, it blankets, and it holds. To return to the cocoon metaphor, it spins a dense web, a mutable and malleable shell that conforms to your moods and imparts an almost amniotic sense of security. I can think of few albums in all of house and techno that feel warmer or more comforting. Not that this is your gardenvariety chillout disc: every cut here is made for dancing. That the album is simultaneously as cozy as a cashmere throw is entirely fortuitous. And there are moments of rare sublimity as well, moments that fly in the face of domestic comforts: \"Her Majesty\" is so sweeping, so grandiose, that it makes you want to rip out your heart and toss it off the highest cliff you can find. Taking flight, of course, is part of cocooning. Melchior's skill is taking those moments of abandon and weaving them seamlessly into the enclosure, until every action, and every object, becomes its opposite: every rhythm a melody, and vice versa; every beat a caress, every shove an embrace. It takes a particular kind of hypnosis to make such equations possible, and once you've submitted to Melchior's even backandforth, you won't be able to turn away.  "}