{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11097/homepage_large.de0506e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Excepter","title":"Debt Dept","text":" Excepter fans tend to fall into two camps: diehard believers, and semiskeptics willing to take the bad with the good. As the Brooklyn group's mix of bleeping subdisco, stoned moaning, and Casio dub has slowly expanded, the latter faction seems to have grown, too. Even positive reviews often seem bemused by Excepter's peakandvalley drift, especially their meandering live shows, which can alternate between magic and tedium. But if you've drank the Excepter KoolAid, the group's \"boring\" stretches are part of their charm, as they can sneakily morph into epiphanies. In that sense, Excepter are a psych group, their music mimicking the way drugs kick in right after you stop checking to see if they have. The funny thing is, there actually aren't that many dead spots on Excepter albums. Throne and Sunbomber are filled with peaks, and even less consistent efforts like KA and Alternation have minimal valleys. It helps that singer John Fell Ryan is an excellent editor, mining musical gold from raw sonic murk. Still, the threat of boredom always lurks, which explains how music this passivesounding can be so tense. Ryan knows when to let ideas work themselves out, allowing generic sounds to gestate into something new. Sure, Excepter's music could be sharper and tighter but it would probably be drier and less interesting, too.Debt Dept, Excepter's first release on Animal Collective's Paw Tracks label, is neither sharp nor tight, but simply another solid addition to the band's oeuvre. It takes the shape of an Excepter show, starting slow and a bit lifeless, as if the musicians are warming up separately. The lumbering \"Entrance 08\", thin \"Shots Ring\", and hiphopish \"Kill People\" are all interesting but skeletal, like promising tracings that the band forgot to ink in. But Debt Dept rewards patience; once \"Any and Every\" launches into a Black Dicelike mix of beats and yelps, Excepter ride a unwavering high the rest of the way. Much of this high comes from standard Excepter strengths rolling loops, clicking drum machines, and droning synths woven together deftly by Dan Hougland, Jon Nicholson, and Nathan Corbin. But there's also a boost from new singers Clare Amory and Lala Harrison, who hum hypnotic circles around Ryan's zombie moans. It recalls Excepter's early days, when previous vocalists Caitlin Cook and Calder Martin made the band sound like a cemetery full of ghosts. No one will confuse Debt Dept's sparseness with KA's noise, but it's nice to hear that element seep back into the band's elastic approach. All these factors make \"The Last Dance\" smoothly hypnotic, \"Walking Through the Night\" gorgeously eerie, and \"Sunrise\" (which ends with a strange semicover of Stevie Wonder's \"Higher Ground\") insistently tense. And they peak in \"Greenhouse/Stretch\", whose two mesmerizing halves one a wavy synth stomp, the other a trippy dub loop are bridged by sublime female vocals. Such highlights would be impossible without Excepter's willingness to risk tedium, and Debt Dept is a testament to the value of ambition over perfection. "}