{"label":" Roadrunner","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11108/homepage_large.7deed764.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"De Novo Dahl","title":"Move Every Muscle, Make Every Sound","text":"  De Novo Dahl debuted back in 2005 with Cats & Kittens, a wildly ambitious double album that presented all of its songs twice in drastically altered forms, demonstrating a bold eclecticism. It was a fun record with a lot of alleys to explore and I still listen to it now and then. The thing about debuting like that is that it's hard to go even further on your second album, and so the Nashville band's sophomore offering, Move Every Muscle, Make Every Sound, is significantly pared back and more focused, leaning on the hooky powerpop sound that characterized disc one of the first album. They've also trimmed down from a sextet to a quintet. That basic powerpop framework still has plenty of room for splashes of biting new wave synth, the occasional proggy flourish, a few discofied beats, and other touches that keep things interesting from song to song. It's much easier to absorb in just a few listens and is spiked with a few phenomenal high points. The opening two tracks are massive and immediate. \"Shout\" is like American Supergrass, with oohing and aahing backup vocals, thick, r&binformed rhythm section playing and a ridiculously anthemic chorus whose lyrics nod, perhaps unintentionally, to Tears for Fears. The title of \"Heartbreaker\" is aspirational, as Joel J Dahl (aka Joel McAnulty) sings of his desire to crush another person romantically in a glammy croon that has you rooting for him to succeed. Matthew Hungate's wall of sunshinedrenched organ completes the sale. De Novo Dahl does uptempo very well you'd probably have to hate rock'n'roll not to fall for the undertwominute blast of garage rock organ boisterous group singing that constitutes the new, beefier version of Cats' \"Be Your Man\" but the variety of slower songs that dot the album have their moments as well. \"Marketplace\" is one of Dahl's finest moments melodically, as he follows the deliberately ascending bassline with a dramatic croon. The song is a stunning centerpiece for the album, and packs more emotional punch than \"Not to Escape\", the album's worldweary closer, which gets a little lost in its own haziness.  De Novo Dahl is a detailoriented band, and they miss few chances to add an ornament or shift the dynamics of a song from a busy arrangement to one with just a few instruments. Even the amount of reverb is varied considerably within songs. \"New Hero\" has dry verses where Dahl does a swooning soulman thing, but when he's joined by Serai Zeffiro's harmonies on the chorus, they're suddenly in Phil Spector's echo chamber, but it really helps to make the individual sections stand out in your memory. The core song of \"Wishful Thinking\" isn't even that memorable, but Zaffiro's backing vocals add hooks where there were none to shore it up.  Move Every Muscle, Make Every Sound is a strong sophomore effort. Some of the sprawling ambition of Cats & Kittens is certainly missed, but the focus present in its place and the plain old good songs they filled the record with ably compensate for that loss. Their sharpened focus and rejiggered lineup have also given them the chance to really perfect their sound and fill it with the kind of details that keep a listener coming back.  "}