{"label":" Fat Possum","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11142/homepage_large.522fc022.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Colour Revolt","title":"Plunder, Beg, and Curse","text":" From a Mississippi band using British spelling in their name and a serial comma in their album title, Plunder, Beg, and Curse has a whiff of confusion around it before one even opens up the record. But while their first EP recalled the swooning guitardriven romanticism of artists like Jeff Buckley and early Radiohead, Colour Revolt seemed like a band who could pull it off. The sound felt familiar, but even as the singer reached for his downysoft upper registers and the guitars choked in their own reverb, the songs had a grittier edge that was distinctive enough to transcend their influences. It's the same band on Plunder, Beg and Curse, but the debut fulllength aims high and often misses. They laudably try to be a less predictable band than their forebears, but from the first song onward, it exceeds their reach. \"Naked and Red\" starts with a low vocal, a bare guitar melody, and drums that can't wait for the moment of release, pounding out the bass on every beat. But rather than a big, easy chorus, the band punches in and out intermittently, veering quickly between excitable and languid, and not always in sync with each other In Colour Revolt's attempts to take the road less traveled, they seem to belie their better instincts. The slippery \"A Siren\" has riffs that are unpredictable without being memorable, and the vocals ranting without quite earning their catharsis. The distorted vocal and slow pace of \"Elegant View\" wants to simmer dangerously, but its thudding fuzz guitars simply plod, and the less said about the hoarse singing on \"Swamp\", the better. The first half of Plunder is marked by overemoting, overplaying, and overcompensating. It's a relief when they don't try so hard. On \"See It\", the waves of guitars never overcome the cool control of singer Dude Sir or the guiding hand of his melody. Same goes for \"Moses of the South\", with it's gently insistent rhythm scraped out from a muted acoustic, while the omnipresent glistening guitars merely color the song rather than take the focus. Later songs like \"Ageless Everytime\" and \"Shovel to Ground\" have soaring melodies and rhythms that unfold naturally, and \"What Will Come of Us\" has the open space that lets its bare, simple melody breathe but more than that, it's got the swagger that says they're convinced this simple melody will work. Colour Revolt prove here that they're a restless and ambitious band, which may very well lead towards more interesting material in the future, but they're still feeling themselves out and learning what works on Plunder, Beg, and Curse. "}