{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11140/homepage_large.1afe1aca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Breeders","title":"Mountain Battles","text":" It's generally bad critical form to reference the record companysupplied bio in a review, but the onepager accompanying the Breeders' Mountain Battles is worth mentioning: It's written by Josephine Wiggs, who played bass on the band's first two albums but left in the late 1990s while the Breeders withered in a seemingly interminable state of inertia. That Wiggs has resurfaced after a decade to play the role of Breeders cheerleader speaks volumes about the kind of faith and goodwill Kim and Kelley Deal have accrued over the years, despite a career that's nearly derailed on more than a few occasions due to the sisters' welldocumented substance abuse and the group's peculiar recording habits and revolvingdoor rhythm sections. After hearing Mountain Battles, Wiggs admits her reaction was: \"Why aren't I playing on this album?\" Her excitement is genuine Mountain Battles is indeed the best Breeders album since 1993's Last Splash. Which, of course, isn't saying a helluva lot, given that the 15 years in between have produced but one official record: 2002's Title TK, whose nineyearsinthewaiting buildup was far too great a weight for its brittle, often sluggish lowfi pop oddities to withstand. In lieu of a returntoform, we simply had to be content with the fact that the Breeders had returned at all. However, in contrast to all the uncertainty that hung over the band preTitle TK, the Breeders approached Mountain Battles from a position of relative stability, with bassist Mando Lopez, drummer Jose Medeles, and producer Steve Albini all returning for another go; the sixyear gap between that album and Mountain Battles is easily accounted for by Kim's entry into rehab in 2002 and the subsequent Pixies reunion tours that kept her on the road for the better part of 200405. But true to the Breeders tradition of tellingly apropos album titles (the hermetically sealed claustrophobia of 1990's Pod, the breakthrough/burnout of Last Splash, the workinprogress feel of Title TK), Mountain Battles suggests that all those Pixies paychecks don't make the Breeders' business any easier. If Title TK was a tentative first step back into the public eye, Mountain Battles finds Kim and Kelley proudly venerating the Breeders' battlescarred history and bullheaded perseverance. Like Last Splash's \"New Year\", Mountain Battles' \"Overglazed\" is more intro than proper opener: Over an ascendant surge of swirling backwardlooped guitars and crashing drums, Kim repeats the song's lone lyric \"I can...I can feel it!\" like someone who's just woken from a coma. Or, in her case, it's someone who's reconnected with a muse that only seems to appear every halfdecade or so, which would explain her tendency to linger on a feeling: \"Night of Joy\" plays up the contrast between its sweet, girlgroup melody and the song's hauntingly absent ambience (much like Kim's star cameo on Sonic Youth's 1995 creeper \"Little Trouble Girl\"); the optimistic rebirth narrative of \"We're Going to Rise\" playfully jibes with the song's lethargic waltz rhythm, as if slowing down the action lets her better savor the moment of peace.  With such deliberately spare presentation, Mountain Battles takes some time to warm up to (and newwave tossoffs like \"Bang On\" still carry traces of Title TK's songsketch incompletion), but then Kim and Kelley Deal's pretty singsong harmonies and affable Ohio charm can distract us from how difficult the Breeders' music can be both for them as players and us as listeners. By this point, that very sense of struggle is intrinsic to the Breeders sound: It's pretty amazing that after all those years of lineup changes and aborted recording sessions, the Breeders pretty much sound exactly the same as they ever did, the quirks, hiccups, and sputters once attributed to a certain amateurish enthusiasm sounding ever more like purposeful components of their bubblegum bricolage. (See: the basementZeppelin chug of \"No Way\".) No, there isn't a \"Cannonball\" here, but the buoyant, bassdriven strutter \"Walk It Off\" makes for a dandy companion piece to Pod's \"Only in 3's\"; Kelley's powerpop pickmeup \"It's the Love\" gleams with a \"Divine Hammer\" shimmer; and the sisters' voices have never sounded finer than on the countryharmony duet \"Here No More\". But Mountain Battles' air of revitalization the thing that has Wiggs wishing she had her old job back is characterized not just by these straight pop shooters, but the apparent glee with which the Deals toss out the curveballs: the Teutonictongued oompaloompa punk of \"German Studies\", the Spanishsung slow dance \"Regalame Esta Noche\" and the bizarro rumbleinthejungle group chant of \"Istanbul\". Once upon a time, bands used to model their careers on copping the Breeders' moves (see: Salt, Veruca). Mountain Battles' greatest success is it makes that very idea seem once again like both an admirable ideal, and an unachievable one. "}