{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11151/homepage_large.4c368bd0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Don't Stop: Recording Tap","text":" How do you finish a puzzle when the guy in the picture is holding the last piece? This is the question Numero Group's Rob Sevier and Ken Shipley ask in their liner notes for Don't Stop: Recording Tap. The question is rhetorical, of course, a way of explaining how difficult it was to assemble this compilation of a New York record label that was so obscure that it barely even released records and most of the people involved who can be located don't even want to talk about it. The label's very founder, Jeremiah Yisrael, born Teddy T. Thompson and now living in Jacksonville, Fla., refused for years to give up his old, moldering tapes and carefully selects the memories he shares of the time. The Numero guys have been through this kind of thing before as they've researched the eight volumes of their Eccentric Soul series, and though technically not part of that series, this could easily have been the ninth volume, between the backstory and the music it contains. The music on the collection was recorded in the early 1980s, as disco faded and rap was on the rise in the nation's biggest city. Continuity wasn't a big thing for Yisrael, and he moved his label from project to project, abandoning previous ones along the way, sometimes without even bothering to release them. Possible deals with the likes of Sugar Hill's Sylvia Robinson fell by the wayside as he set his sites on the next thing, and great early rap tracks that could have blown up if released when they were recorded in 1981 instead fell with a barely audible thump in 1986, years past their shelf date. Yisrael wasn't running a shoestring operation. He ran the Bronxbased T&T health food chain and was the organizer of the Brotherhood of Wisdom, Temple of Issachar, a storefront church that focused on the Torah. In the past, he'd apprenticed with Motown/Mercury/ OldWorld/Chess/Atco/ producer Gene Redd, Jr., who ultimately came to work for Tap, and he'd also had a brief acting career, including a role in the 1972 Bond flick Live and Let Die. He poured money into his recording sessions, booking time at Mayfair, Power Station, and Right Track, bringing in string orchestras and professional arrangers, some of whose handnotated work can be seen in the supplemental book that comes with the CD.  Disco is the bedrock of all of these recordings, and though some manage to be lofi in spite of their budgets, they all possess an infectious quality and a stomping, hightempo groove. Yisrael started with Annette Denvil, who he discovered at a talent show he organized. \"So Nice\", the song included here, features smoothly grooving verses balanced by a somewhat sinister minorkey riff in between. It's good, but it's an hors d'oeuvre relative to what would come after, after Denvil's wouldbe music career ended with a positive pregnancy test.  The year 1981 held great potential for Tap, as Yisrael latched on to the rap sound that was blowing up in the Bronx and Harlem. He brought in a crew, the Fabulous 3 MCs, and immediately set about finding a female crew to complement them. He turned up Denette \"Missy D\" Scott and charged her with getting a group together. The final Melody Crew included Tanya \"Lady T\" Barns, a member of Kurtis Blow's crew and no small potato in the early rap world. Don't Stop includes one track from each crew, and they're each hugely entertaining slices of liveband disco rap that plays nicely alongside Sugar Hill's early sides. Yisrael attempted to shop Missy Dee's \"Missy Missy Dee\", but never came to satisfactory terms with any prospective label. In the process, he completely neglected the Fabulous 3 MCs, who left bitterly. After a few months of failing to find a home for the Missy Dee track, Yisrael simply moved on, leaving the Melody Crew to break up on its own.  At this point, Redd entered the fold and Yisrael brought on veteran performer Arnie Love, pairing him with two Lovettes for a clutch of fantastic discofunk tracks. \"Breakout\" has a sick rhythm track, deft arrangement, and outstanding instrumental hook, \"Invisible Wind\" springs from a barreling, hornladen intro into a sharp if somewhat poorly mixed disco jam, and the other offerings follow in a similar vein. If success was as simple as making a good recording, we'd all know who Arnie Love was, but Jeremiah Yisrael apparently neglected to promote and distribute the handful of Arnie Love 12\"s that were produced, though it could have been considered progress that they were pressed at all. Love fell quickly into the rearview mirror as Yisrael threw himself into his next singer, Jackie Stoudemire.  If you know the name, it's because she had a club hit in 1994 with \"Appreciate\", long after her association with Tap ended. During her time with Tap, she never even sniffed a niche chart. She was an associate of Slick Rick and Dana Dane, but Yisrael didn't try her out on any rap songs, instead sticking with the lateperiod disco he'd recorded with Arnie Love. He even resurrected a few songs from his work with Love, including \"Invisible Wind\". Her version is much slicker and far more chartready, but it wasn't to be: Stoudemire had been made to join Yisrael's temple, and clearly wasn't interested in its message of women's subservience to men. Though they continued to record in spite of this, producing the supersmooth choral disco track \"Guilty\" and the funky wouldbe floorfiller \"Don't Stop Dancin'\".  A few Stoudemire 12\"s were pressed, but true to form, flopped spectacularly from a lack of promotion and distribution. Redd became a victim of the AIDS epidemic in 1983, taking his sure hand in the studio with him. Yisrael simply didn't have the skill at a mixing board he needed to continue, and he dismissed Stoudemire. Love was still around but frustrated that he was clearly going nowhere. He ultimately changed his performing name and jumped ship, scoring a very minor hit with a song called \"I'm Out of Your Life\". Yisrael had just a few more trips to the studio in him, for a few ballads and an antidrug rap song, all deemed unworthy of inclusion here in the liners.  All told, it's kind of remarkable that any good music came out of the Tap story. On paper, it looks like a classic case of ambition exceeding ability, and on the business end it certainly was that. But on the musical end, enough things coalesced just right to create a unique body of work that's only now being properly exposed. Most of the recordings are endearingly rough, and the wild story and generous artwork that accompany it give it a more coherent feel than it had even in real life.  "}