{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11152/homepage_large.3cc01bee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Colin Meloy","title":"Sings Live!","text":"  The title of this solo, acoustic tour LP is accurate, yet potentially misleading. It conjures images of a whitetuxedoed lounge singer, voice as smooth as good vermouth, working through the standards with intimate asides and PGrated innuendos on the side. It's funny to imagine Meloy as such a character, because he's essentially the opposite: selfconscious and bookish instead of blithe and effortlessly cool. The vocal interpreter sets love stories amid contemporary urban centers; Meloy orchestrates romantic tragedies in exotic period locales. This isn't the first time that Meloy has used the classic \"Sings\" format, although it is the first time he's bringing it to retail. Two previous touronly EPs covered Morrissey and Shirley Collins. But again, Meloy put his own twist on the tradition. When Mel Torme sang Fred Astaire, or Frank Sinatra sang the Cole Porter songbook, the fundamental idea was the intersection of two musical greats. Torme and Sinatra could captivate a crowd with just charisma; Meloy usually uses elaborate props and ornate arrangements. His Sings albums sound more like a fan's love letters to his idols than a meeting of titans on a level playing field. Sings Live! is a little different, because it's unseemly to write love letters to one's self, and Meloy handles the material with a blend of irony and selfeffacement that becomes its own kind of very modern charm. The set includes a broad variety of material: songs from Picaresque, Her Majesty the Decemberists, and Castaways and Cutouts, alongside rarities like \"Devil's Elbow\" (from Meloy's former band, Tarkio) and \"Bandit Queen\" (from the Picaresqueties EP), plus a handful of partial covers and unreleased songs. The mood is convivial during the lulls, as Meloy chats up the crowd in the dry manner of comedian John Hodgman, but turns somber during the songs you can practically hear the lights dimming. Strippeddown versions of album tracks are reverently delivered, exposing the affecting melodies that underlie Decemberists' bombastic arrangements, without which they all sound kind of similar. Meloy nods to his inspirations as he sings himself. A snippet of Fleetwood Mac's \"Dreams\" piggybacks on \"Here I Dreamt I Was an Architect\", and a chunk of the Smiths' \"Ask\" closes out \"Youth and Beauty Brigade\". Meloy is more of an assimilator than an interpreter, and the covers, like the Tarkio track, wind up sounding like Decemberists songs, too.  Indie music fans are prone to filter even the most intimate experience though a sarcastic veil, and it's this weird dichotomy that characterizes Meloy's interaction with his audience. The making of the live album is mentioned often enough that it might have been titled Colin Meloy Sings Live About Singing Live.  On the \"Evoking a Campfire Singalong\" interlude, he says with a touch of weariness, \"The other thing about these solo shows is that they're set up to be like campfire singalongs, so you're welcome to sing along as much as you like.\" The audience hoots and hollers, but judging from the silence surrounding the songs, no one took the offer seriously. Nor did Meloy: \"Kumbaya\", he says with an audible wink before launching into \"The Gymnast, High Above the Ground\", putting a knowing spin on what might otherwise be perceived as an earnest gesture. It's as if a bunch of people have gotten together to try and create a communal experience they don't quite believe in. It's a little depressing here, but elsewhere, the sense of irony serves the album well.  One of the unreleased songs, \"Wonder\", is a fine, standard Decemberistsstyle tune. The other, \"Dracula's Daughter\", is introduced at length by Meloy as \"the worst song I've ever written.\" He isn't exaggerating. It's a genuinely heinous song. The guitar part is bad. The lyrics are worse. \"You think you've got it bad? Try having Dracula for your dad.\" Meloy plays it slapstick, repeatedly pausing to amplify on a forthcoming cringeworthy bit, and his audience relishes the kitsch with him. Of course, this kind of selflaceration is only possible because he's got plenty of good songs to balance out this one, which serves to undermine the selfserious impression you might take away from Decemberists albums. It's the rare case where an awful song actually makes an album better.  "}