{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13178/homepage_large.f84b0249.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"All Girl Summer Fun Band","title":"2","text":" All Girl Summer Fun Band's second outing is the kind of thing most critics read: grouches with slouches love to sink our coffeestained fangs into. Producing the kind of unassuming cheery pop their moniker would indicate, 2 offers up a plethora of armor chinks for a hardened soul to exploit; in fact, if it didn't sound so unpleasantly racial, I'd almost describe it as all chink. But even stolid mopers have to admit that 2 stays remarkably onmessage in its delivery, and without the protective shell of irony one might expect from the shield with a K in it. Providing fifteen distortionflavored bubblegum songs in twentynine minutes, 2 is something like The Ramones without that pesky Y chromosome and all the macho behavior that comes with it. Topics span from marrying boys to dancing with boys to stealing boys from other girls, the vocals are chipper than chip, and the music is the sort that provokes wanton tired comparisons to sugary foods. It's a combination that could easily provoke toothaches (oof, sorry), but generally, they pull it off, endearing enough to earn a solid place as openwindow fare. Musical stalkervalentine \"Jason Lee\" is particularly overwinning, despite its content resemblance to that fifteenminute novelty \"David Duchovny\" song, and maybe because I too have a bit of a crush on Mr. Lee myself. Songs fortified with keyboards, never mind how obvious (\"Video Game Heart\" features joystick laser noises, \"Samantha Secret Agent\" 60s spymovie organ) stand out above the gogo surfdrum fray of perky mantras like \"Becky\" and \"Million Things\". If there's a criticism to be made other than the dead horse of onedimensionality it's one that would require a lot more women's studies textbooks than I happen to own, not to mention one that we already sorta covered in our review of their debut. Perhaps I'm suffering from pseudoliberal oversensitivity, but it's a bit worrisome that an allgirl summer fun band would necessarily have to sound like a quartet of 12 yearolds in the subject matter of their music. Since \"Jason Lee\" drops the knowledge that at least one member is 33, it seems a bit regressive for another vocalist to be yearning to \"run around like a puppy dog\" elsewhere on the album, as nice as that sounds against a threechord fuzz backdrop. Couldn't they aspire to more mature lyrics in a pop setting, like Neko Case's bold statement (to my ears) of \"I don't need eventual dance halls/Just a bill from a restaurant?\" Okay, I don't know what the fuck that means either. And come to think of it, Fountains of Wayne are currently on M2 talking about how Stacy's mom has got it goin' on, so maybe it isn't a gender problem at all, but an issue for the whole powerpopulation. But here's a wish going out to the women of the All Girl Summer Fun Band, a wish for 3, 4, and so on to feature more mature subject matter while preserving the spry slices of twominute July they've perfected. Because last I checked, us old people can still have some summer fun on occasion too. "}