{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11173/homepage_large.6affd85a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Jucifer","title":"L'autrichienne","text":"  Comparisons are inevitable with Jucifer. They're a guygirl garage rock duo, which automatically brings up the White Stripes. But in Jucifer, the girl, Amber Valentine, is up front, and remains wedded to the guy, Edgar Livengood. Valentine's more naked vocal moments evoke a young PJ Harvey; she also sometimes sounds like Courtney Love in better days. Other precedents include Boss Hog, the garage rock (and likewise married) duo of Jon Spencer and Cristina Martinez, and Kim Gordon, when she cuts loose over Sonic Youth's bluesy side. But Jucifer's range far exceeds that of these bands. Smart pop, quiet balladry, and bludgeoning sludge metal are all fair game, making the band's records feel like patchwork. Valentine's voice ties things together, however; her croon sounds equally at home over acoustic guitar and Jucifer's wall of amps. (The band is famed for insanely loud shows involving upwards of 1015 amp cabinets.) In Boss Hog, Cristina Martinez achieved some success with cooing over abrasion. However, Valentine sounds sweet and relatively innocent, which makes her screaming that much more startling during Jucifer's tougher moments.L'autrichienne is the band's most ambitious work yet. It's a sprawling, 21song concept album about Marie Antoinette, who was nicknamed \"l'Autrichienne\" due to her Austrian origin and connections. Valentine tackled the subject after finding a book on the French Revolution in an RV park lending library. (She and Livengood have lived on the road in an RV for the past seven years; their MySpace lists them as \"NOMADS 4EVER.\") The album's liner notes are endearingly nerdy, appending historical commentary to each song.  Yet this is no highbrow endeavor. The reassurance of a unifying concept allows the band to stretch out further than ever. Ragged rock is the record's axis, around which rotate considerably varying dynamics. \"The Mountain\" and \"Procession a la Guillotine\" erect walls of fuzz worthy of doom metal. One of the band's pet moves is to use hardcore punk as an EKG spike. \"Blackpowder\" leads off the album with sturdy rock, only to be steamrolled by \"Thermidor\", essentially early1990s New York hardcore punk. Then, Valentine sings over only her guitar, evoking a more extroverted Kristin Hersh. In \"Champs De Mars\", Valentine sings quietly menacing tritones, then slams into surging riffs; it's pure PJ Harvey circa Dry.  For all the band's power, it shines most when it sheathes it. Previously, when Jucifer held back, rough edges remained, and Valentine's purr was charmingly out of place. Now the band has learned how to adorn its quiet; the transformation recalls the Rolling Stones on Aftermath. \"Armada\" mushrooms from a sludgy crawl to imperial horns and lush vocal harmonies. The title track's supple clean tones and drumming evoke Jimi Hendrix and Mitch Mitchell. A wounded bird of a melody crawls in, keening with startling candor. Robert Christgau says the White Stripes build monuments that are no place to settle down. Jucifer's garage rock, in contrast, is like their RV  richly appointed and very much home.  "}