{"label":" Table of the Elements","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11186/homepage_large.0bb28618.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Neptune","title":"Gong Lake","text":"  Though Neptune have put out a lot of material over 12 years, the release of Gong Lake on experimental artists' haven Table of the Elements may net the band their widest exposure yet. Describing their records without mentioning the methods behind them, and the ensuing live spectacle, is hard to resist: On stage, they man heavy, foreboding instruments selfmade from antiquated machines and scrap metal, forged at extreme angles like props from a German expressionist film. The band could never be reduced to simply performance art, though, and Gong Lake is just as rich in rhythm and atmosphere as any of their previous albums. Still, they remain primarily a live beast. Their sound is literally industrial, and it's way more fun to watch a factory bang shit out than just to hear it. Neptune still struggle with that, and even at their most songoriented and cohesive, a Neptune record may always be an advertisement for their dramatic, otherworldly live shows. That said, Gong Lake makes for an exquisite flier. Considering the band's output on the whole, the songs on Gong Lake are comparatively discrete, and the dynamic shifts especially pronounced. Though lord knows what machine has been subverted to make the noise, many songs start from stretched, ominous tones that may as well be from keyboards, notably on songs like \"Copper Green\" where the band hangs several little noise fugues like tree ornaments on one central, icy onenote drone. Neptune do find occasions to add vocals, and any other texture is welcome with such unforgiving instrumentals. It's mostly a flat and ominous nearwhisper on songs like \"Grey Shallows\", which doesn't add to the song so much as pull back the curtain a bit and disrupt their brutally mechanical groove. Vocals feel less like an afterthought on more simmering tracks like \"Black Tide\" and \"Yellow River\", adding to their seedy and ominous feel. More traditional strings (be they from baritone guitars or something more unusual) dominate songs like \"Paris Green\" and \"Blue Glass\", making them almost straightforward rockers. This is where more animated vocals struggle for some of the focus of the clattering rhythm and stunning drum performances; \"Yellow River\" strikes a better balance, as voices add to the song's foreboding, nearly hiphop groove. From the vocals that crib from the Vincent Price playbook to the creepycrawly vibe of instrumentals like \"Red Sea\" and \"Purple Sleep\", these songs can be campy and fun just as often as they are oppressive, and can easily be both; there's just as much of the impish sound manipulation of pioneers like Raymond Scott as there is Einstürzende Neubauten. Either way, Neptune are formidable architects of sound, regardless of what they had to build to get there. While Gong Lake is more a refinement than a breakthrough, the record doesn't suggest stasis; rather, you wonder how what could have been a performanceart gimmick has sustained itself for 12 years without running out of inspiration or steam, and Gong Lake is a fine argument for them sticking around.  "}