{"label":" Bpitch Control","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11188/homepage_large.f4090ef7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Ellen Allien","title":"Boogybytes Vol. 04","text":" Describing Ellen Allien's choices for the fourth installment of her Bpitch Control label's Boogybytes series is a lot like describing Allien's own music: chunky and warm but distinctly European; sexually charged but not outright erotic; rhythmic but not explicitly danceable. Previous Boogybytes volumes have featured Allien pals Kiki, Sascha Funke, and Modeselektor controlling the decks; Boogybytes Vol. 04 serves less as a proper introduction to Allien's upcoming LP SOOL and more as lowkey reminder of Allien's peculiar artistic voice. \"Controlling the decks\" is a becoming a bit of an anachronism for DJ mixes: Even though Allien handmixed Fabric 34 she mans the keyboard for Boogybytes Vol. 04, stringing together 15 tracks, often for four or five minutes at a time. Allien mixes a little like you might twirl spaghetti onto a fork, locating one or two strands she likes and wrapping layer after layer. For most of Boogybytes Vol. 04 she lays off kick drums or propulsive melodies in favor of glandular melodic thumps. When vocals are introduced as on the Damien Schwartz remix of Friendly People's \"Music Is Improper\" it is in a very Allientype mode: robotic phrases that add to the glitch and whir. The mix then stays very consistent and very true to Allien's own strengths. She throws in the occasional monkeywrench the second half of Melon's \"Nitzi (In My Mind, So Fine)\" is a sly house raveup and the windchime exotica of Lucio Aquilina's \"My Cube\" is a constant attention grabber but for the most part Boogybytes Vol. 04 is stuffed with linear grooves that coil together naturally. Allien does well to stray from the obvious, making slyly leftfield selections from the mix's higher profile artists. Melchior Productions' \"Don Juan\" saws and lurches like nothing on the recent No Disco Future but its tiretrack bassline never stalls. Ricardo Villalobos makes an appearance with Patrick Ense on \"Fizpatrick\" which steers well clear of the tribal minimalism Villalobos is known for. Allien's decision to open and close the mix with slight ballads \"Liniendicke\" from SOOL producer AGF at the front end, Little Dragon's \"Twice\" to end is the set's most distinguishing characteristic.  Despite the varied and intriguing selections, Boogybytes Vol. 04 drags and rips, its sonic palette leaking out over the course of 66 minutes that feature too much suspension and too little build. Four minutes of Gaiser's iciclepretty \"Withdrawal\" pass without event; six minutes quickly oscillating tones during Vera's \"In the Nook\" never stick, and it's the second track in the mix. Transitions often occur over such long passages that they are \"seamless\" almost by default; losing interest in what track is actually playing is not uncommon. Allien is a DJ of no small consequence, and there's no arguing with the sonics of Boogybytes Vol. 04 they almost perfectly enunciate her tastes, interests, and collaborators but as a set, this mix is too much lock and not enough step. "}