{"label":" Now Again / Jazzman","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11196/homepage_large.d9d98fef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Carolina Funk: First in Funk 1968-1977","text":" There are basically two ways to compile obscure old music: one is to focus on a story, say that of a single performer or a record label, and the other is to do an overview with sensible, if ultimately arbitrary parameters. It's possible to make a satisfying collection using either method, but you have to do it right regardless: When diligent research, good sound and good music collide on the same disc, you have the best of all worlds, and something truly worth owning. Jazzman has made something of an art form out of the latter approach with its recent geographically organized survey of impossibly rare funk. Carolina Funk follows on the fine heels of the label's Midwest, Texas, and Florida Funk overviews, dishing out 22 killer sides from late 1960s and earlytomid70s North and South Carolina, accompanied by 22 pages of extensive, tinytype liners that offer more background than most people will know what to do with. The compilation covers a broad spectrum: There are hard psychedelic funk sides, funky soul songs, murky basement disco grooves, vocal harmonies, and screaming James Brown disciples, all played at skill levels ranging from confidently professional to charmingly amateur. The biggest name on the tracklisting is Carleen & the Groovers, which illustrates just how lost to time most of these tracks were. There are a couple of things seeing their first commercial release, and there is definitely a collector's penchant for rarity at work in the song choices. There's no distinct sound tying all these songs together if anything, the opposite is true. If there's a common thread to be found, it's that the vibrant funk scene of the Carolinas was mostly a hyperlocal phenomenon, with very few of the featured musicians ever touring or receiving distribution outside their city much less their state. The disc opens with the ludicrous spokenword intro to Primitive's \"Creation of Music\", a dorky, fauxBiblical announcement that God created music, in the manner of His famous \"let there be light\" pronouncement. And then it tears up the dance floor with a nasty rhythm guitar, twisting sax, and a burbling bass line. The skeletal groove pioneered by James Brown is all over these songs, and these bands play it hard, the often roughshod production only serving to highlight the attack of each scratchy guitar chord or wellhit snare. There are two direct homages to Carolina's #1 soul brother (JB was born in South Carolina) in Dynamite Singletary's \"Super Good\" and the Soul Impossibles' ultragritty \"Interpretation: Soul Power No. 1\", both of which are essentially modifications of similarly named Brown tracks.  The riches sitting in the bins of Carolina flea markets are apparently plentiful, and some of these songs are just dying to be heard by audiences far larger than their 250count pressings allowed. Wally Coco's \"Message to Society\", the most discofied track on the disc, is a groove monster that pleasingly combines the slick rhythms taking over the dance floors of the late 70s with garagerock caliber production. That's hardly the craziest groove here, thoughthat's probably the Soul Drifters' \"Funky Soul Brother\", which opens with a stinging wah guitar riff that, along with ridiculously tight drumming, coanchors an amazing bass line, gang vocals, and horn lines that embody the adjective \"stabbing.\" The horns on Paul Burton's \"So Very Hard to Make It\" are anything but stabbing, their rich orchestration providing a creamy backdrop for Burton's smooth soul croon.  If you're a fan of oldschool funk, picking this compilation up is a nobrainer. If you're an oldschool funk dilettante, you could still do worse this isn't material with limited appeal, even if it had limited impact in its day. The lack of success most of these bands experienced had a lot more to do with simple geography and economics. The various Carolina funk scenes may have been poor for cash or resources, but they were rich with creativity.  "}