{"label":" Music With a Twist","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13390/homepage_large.92abd886.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Gossip","title":"Live in Liverpool","text":" This live album, Gossip's first effort for their new Columbiaowned LGBTthemed label Music With a Twist, would get a pass simply on the strength of its bluesy dancefloor reimagining of Wham!'s \"Careless Whisper\" alone. Sure, the punkedup 1980s cover trend is old must every band  these day remake a hit from the Reagan era in their own American Apparelclad image? and yes, any Gossip fan with access to a computer has probably already heard this track, as it has long been a British blogger favorite. But never mind. From its spare, throbbingbass opening to super front woman Beth Ditto's soulful, wrenched delivery to its chugging conclusion, the song eschews the ironic wink and distanced posturing and infuses the song with the throttle and charisma that makes Gossip such a force. \"Careless Whisper\", as a result, has never sounded so raw: The song was always about regret, but something about George Michael's silky delivery and that hopelessly dated swooning saxophone gives it an air of elegant elevator muzak. As Ditto wails and Brace Paine's aggressive guitar stabs against Hannah Billie's fouronthefloor stomp, they tear away all that was mannered about the original, leaving tears and sweat and propulsive dance rhythms in its place. Which, incidentally, is what the song is about in the first place.  Luckily, this collection, which was recorded at a show (duh) in Liverpool last summer, has more to offer than just that one great song. Its two covers \"Whisper\" and Aaliyah's \"Are You That Somebody?\", which proves that should Ditto tire of wearing the mantle of tough garagepunk goddess, she's got the pop chops and the dramatic delivery to be a melismadrunk R&B diva might be the highlights of this album. But the 11 originals, freed from the shackles of a recording studio, debut Gossip's sound as it has always been meant to be heard. Though the OregonviaArkansas trio has released three studio albums over the past eight years, they have yet to capture the hotblooded power of their muscular live sound on record. (They came closest on their previous live album, 2003's muddily recorded Undead in NYC.) This wellproduced album attempts to remedy that and preserve their bluesy, blowzy show for posterity. Finally there's a sweatandbeersoaked alternative for those who always liked \"Standing in the Way of Control\" and \"Don't Make Waves\" but felt their studio incarnations were too clinical to capture the band’s overheated stage presence. (Want proof? Check the bonus DVD that comes packaged with this collection.)On Gossip's foray into dancepunk,  2006's Standing in the Way of Control, Billie's cool drum precision often felt too aloof for Ditto's bloody wail, so hearing that album's songs (most notably, standout \"Yr Mangled Heart\") live is to hear the rhythm section match Ditto's  level of fabulously messy agitation. There's not much stage banter here though Ditto does dedicate two songs to \"the faggots\" and \"the dykes\" respectively but this collection will still give listeners the feeling of being at one Gossip's concerts, complete with Joplinesque vocal riffs, cathartic guitar bursts, and crowd singalongs (this was, afterall, recorded in England where Ditto is a much bigger NMEcrowned star).There are few women in music today with pipes like Ditto's and even fewer still that can pull off her level of vocal emoting without either sounding overwrought or needing a backing track. So a live album is a wise way for Gossip to introduce themselves to their new major label. It highlights their strengths (that voice, those beats, that authentic givingittheirall vibe) and hides their weaknesses (lack of songwriting breadth and dynamic diversity) making it sound like there's no place more fun than a Gossip concert, and no better host than Beth Ditto. "}