{"label":" Elektra / Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11197/homepage_large.35a2ce71.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Love","title":"Forever Changes (Collector's Edition)","text":" If I were reviewing only the original material that forms the basis of this Collector's Edition of Love's Forever Changes, I'd certainly give it a 10.0 and praise it in the most glowing terms possible. Such as: Fuck the Doors. This is the truer sound of late1960s Los Angeles, which was neither a trippy paradise nor a Lizard Kingdom, but a purgatory characterized by paranoia and grievance. Already veterans of the local scene when they released their third and best album, Love captured the city in all its grizzled glory on Forever Changes or, rather, Arthur Lee did. A charismatic black singer/songwriter in a mixedrace band but a generally white scene, he had soured on the hippies and sunshine mentality, and instead saw the Vietnam War, his friends' drug addictions, and the end of the world. Sequestered in a house high in the Hollywood hills, he could look down at the city below and nurse a curious dread. Eventually, he became convinced that his death was looming and that Forever Changes would be his final statement to the world. So he became a rank perfectionist, expressing all his unhappiness, fear, blame, and hope not only in his dark, discomfiting lyrics, but in the music itself, which draws from rock, pyschedelia, folk, pop, classical, and even mariachi. Ultimately, the album belongs to none of those genres.That's certainly a compelling story, but it also points to a larger antistory, one specifically bound to Los Angeles during the late 1960s. In her essay \"The White Album\", Joan Didion experienced a similar detachment from the world around her, piecing together fragments of scenes with the Doors, an interview with Manson girl Linda Kasabian, transcripts from the Ferguson brothers murder trial, and vivid descriptions of her own brittle mental state. \"I was supposed to have a script, and had mislaid it,\" she writes. \"I was supposed to hear cues, and no longer did. I was meant to know the plot, but all I knew was what I saw: flash pictures in variable sequence, images with no 'meaning' beyond their temporary arrangement, not a movie but a cuttingroom experience.\" Forever Changes is similarly a thicket of tangled story threads, which of course shows in Lee's lyrics. Has rock music produced a stranger, more alarming cry for help than \"Sitting on a hillside, watching all the people die/ I'll feel much better on the other side\"? Lee sings those lyrics on \"The Red Telephone\", and the calm in his voice, the matteroffactness with which he delivers those lines, makes them the more worrisome.Lee's faltering grasp on any overriding narrative, however, comes through more strongly in the shape of the music, which is diverse and logical, but tricky full of feints, blind alleys, unusual passages. The traditional structures that served the band so well on its two previous albums (Love even covered BacharachDavid) are jettisoned in favor of more circuitous arrangements like \"A House Is Not a Motel\", which moves linearly, but repeats almost nothing. Even the most direct, lucid songs convey a sense of vague menace, the first sight of the storm out to sea. \"Maybe the People Would Be the Times or Between Clark and Hilldale\", perhaps the catchiest song here, surveys Los Angeles' music scene from Lee's perspective as he seems to bid conspicuous farewells to the venues and audiences. There's an acceptance and perhaps even a relief in his resignation: Listen to Lee sing along with the trumpet solo, his excitement driving and driven by the music.Forever Changes is both context and text, but none of it is academic. It's a rock album and, despite its tangles of meaning, a surprisingly accessible and enduring one. Nevertheless, as amazing as these songs are, this particular edition of Forever Changes is definitive only by default. Its similarities to the 2001 edition suggest an obligatory undertaking, offering few revelations about the album or the musicians who made it. The new liner notes were written by Andrew Sandoval, who produced the previous edition and contributed a short introduction. His access to the band members is valuable (he interviewed Lee many times before the singer's death in 2006), but he seems more interested in detailing the creation of the record than in exploring what it means or why it persists. The bulk of the bonus material consists of an alternate mix of the album, which pushes Lee's vocals to the forefront, deviates occasionally from the wellknown stereo version, and generally recalls those Elektra anniversary editions of Love's previous albums. Otherwise, six of the 10 new bonus tracks appear on the original reissue, while one track is noticeably absent. Several are tracking sessions, full of count offs, false starts, and abrupt stops. This is by definition forfansonly material. The only real discovery is their lackadaisical take on \"Wooly Bully\", which begins and ends so unceremoniously that it sounds wholly improvised, the byproduct of too much downtime in the studio.Of the two, this new edition is superior to the 2001 one if only because it relegates all the bonus material to a separate disc and presents the full album by itself on the first disc. The wellearned valedictory \"You Set the Scene\" closes Forever Changes as intended instead of leading into outtakes. On the other hand, this Collector's Edition lacks the impact of the 2001 version, which rescued the then outofprint album and introduced it to new legions of listeners. In retrospect, however, timing may have been the most crucial aspect of that release, considering the events of 2001 and the outrage that has simmered since then. Inspired by the 1960s, Forever Changes may actually be the perfect soundtrack to the 2000s, when the stories we tell ourselves in order to live began to make even less sense. To say that Love's music has lost none of its power is beside the point: It has actually gained new gravity, as Lee's paranoia, far from unwarranted, has become frighteningly easy to identify with. "}