{"label":" Born Bad","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11214/homepage_large.e5743ec6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Cheveu","title":"Cheveu","text":" Though the instrumentation is simple and there's a little lofi gauze around their first fulllength (just now getting CD release on Born Bad Records), don't mistake Cheveu for a onetrick pony. The French band's debut veers between delectably trashy drummachine punk to Casio experiments that reverberate in slow, strange ways, hinting at graphic drug use and casual violence. The singer's voice is just slightly detached from the rest of the music, hovering somewhere above the band and adding to the album's woozy, unusual feel, whether barking, berating, or pleading. The songs are claustrophobic and desperate, or they're silly and indulgent. But they're nearly always concise, catchy, weird, and aloof.\"Jacob's Fight\" starts with a hint of faraway noise, before a speeding, descending guitar crashes in over a 4/4 drum machine beat that sounds like frozen meat being punched, while organs bleat out one wavering note underneath it all. Even if it's just two notes, the organ takes more focus on \"Clara Venus\" with an ominous flyswatter hum that evokes Bmovie villainy, but the guitar thrash gets slowly more sophisticated as the vocals get more gruff and animated. It has more swirling incidental noise and effects that occasionally recalls the hazy, unpredictable punk of early Butthole Surfers, though Cheveu's relative hold on traditional structures and sanity makes them sound more accessible. \"Happiness\" has the singer faithfully reading a grisly monologue from the Todd Solondz film, and while you may not play it the whole way through more than once, it reinforces the unpredictability and wry, indulgent humor of the record. \"Dog\" shows off a different mode of the band, one that sounds like a bizarre Lou Reed pisstake, from its more traditional bluesinspired riffs and monotone eighthnote piano bashing to its hilariously confused comehither lyrics you could say something's lost in translation, but it's pretty clear they're aiming for absurdity here. (\"You smell like shit, I'll take you to my mom's\").The record gets a little more frazzled and hedonistic as it goes on. \"Herman Choune\" begins with nearpsychedelic organ tones, then retreats to the band at its most lofi, with a caustic and oppressive dry sound that's nearly oppressive, and makes its icy vintage keyboard tones sound as gritty and primitive as any guitar. \"Great Competitor\" drowns the vocals in echo to add chaos to its bluesier pogofriendly stomp, the twonote tightrope riff of \"Superhero\" plays like a more unhinged version Pixies' \"Tony's Theme\" as the singer barks commands like a gashuffing John Moschitta. Then there's \"Lola Langusta\": This rerecorded version adds a brief moment of ragtime squawk from a horn section and a little bass to make the riff swing properly, and yet it has some of the album's most tossedoff, silly lyrics, even more than \"Dog\". It's selfdefeating and swaggering at once; the band wants it both ways here, and they get it.They descend into less catchy and more chaotic material, as the drum machinedriven \"Hot\" drags the band through ascending patterns in narcotic indulgence. \"Hello Friends\" sounds genuinely threatening, with it's minorchord strum and obscured vocals evoking wires crossed and connections frazzled, like scenes in movies where you're hearing a tragedy through a walkie talkie. The record stalls occasionally, from the skippable \"Happiness\" and the version of \"Unemployment Blues\" that ambles aimlessly and maybe proves that it works best onstage, and the album does lean heavily on material stretched across previous singles but it remains a reward to anyone with the wherewithal to dig deeper. "}