{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11213/homepage_large.f52546e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Thank You","title":"Terrible Two","text":" Thank You are plenty eccentric. The Baltimore based trio's sophomore record is loaded with grunts, howls, and guttural utterances rather than formal verse. Melodic contributions generally range from the pulse of a single repeated organ note to the thin and atonal skittering of a guitar. But all of these noisy hijinks are hung on a solid skeleton of killer rhythm. Drummer Elke KW is not a precision player. There are a few moments on Terrible Two where she seems poised to wander beyond the beat and off into stumbling entropy. But there's definitely a bit of progrock's \"more is more\" philosophy to her rhythms. If you wrote out a drum score for album opener \"Empty Legs\" it would probably just be a grid of thick black bars. KW crams a note into every available opening, leaving only enough space for bandmates Michael Bouyoucas and Jeffrey McGrath to pedal bass notes on an organ and blow a few whistles. Rather than being crowded and indulgent, however, the result is invigorating a tidal wave of tribal throb and primitive yowl that bursts with energy for its entire sixminute duration. If Thank You have a working method, it's montage. \"Self With Yourself\" begins with undulating snare and hihat syncopations, then breaks into cascading tom rolls, only to close with the halted splash of cymbal catches. Once a rhythm has been explored to the band's satisfaction they just ditch it and move on to the next and never look back. Thank You aren't making dance music at least in any traditional way but in a structural sense, they borrow from it. Terrible Two's compositions seem like they've been DJed into existence from a collection of the band's favorite This Heat and OOIOO breaks. Between the cluttered rhythms, the speechless chanting, and unrelenting spasms of guitar noise, Terrible Two packs a lot of diffuse information. Credit has to be given to J. Robbins (who engineered) and Chris Coady (who mixed) for filtering all of the buzz into a coherent picture. Each drum hit is given its own sonic space and it's own roomy reverb not one detail gets lost in the din. And there's a lot of din here.  On the title track and final song, Thank You's manic energy starts to wind down. A curtain of cymbal washes gradually evolves into a subdued and cyclical rhythm, mildly affected with dubbedout filters. Samples and organ drones stream lazily in and out. There's a sense that Thank You are gradually leading you by the hand toward some wild spiritual epiphany. However, that epiphany might be just as simple as this: More artpunks should develop drum chops.  "}