{"label":" Astralwerks / Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11210/homepage_large.502eff8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Air","title":"Moon Safari - 10th Anniversary Edition","text":" We all know what horrors illegal downloading has wrought on new releases; one side effect of that erosion involves labels attempting to recoup those losses by reanimating their back catalogues, Mary Shelley style. Before the big swoon, it was tough to justify a reissue without a remaster, but desperate times call for desperate measures, and so lately, we've seen an increasing spate of albums rereleased for no other reason than a roundnumber anniversary. In the cases of your Thrillers and your Pet Sounds, that's a justifiable enough benchmark in a way, those reissues provide the platform to talk about us and how much we've changed as much as the music. Something like the new deluxe edition of Air's Moon Safari, though, is a slightly trickier proposition. For starters: There's the niggling question of whether Air's debut, superb as it is, really merits canonical treatment. As a collection of songs, it's endured well enough over time; after a decade, it still holds up fine. But so have a ton of other similarly acclaimed and successful records from 1998, and it doesn't seem remotely appropriate to roll out the red carpet for those either. As far as modern connect points go, there's nothing really happening musically at the moment that makes Moon Safari suddenly worthy of reexamination. If anything, with its dainty sonics and polite arpeggios, a lot of this record runs counter to the discofied and Balearic dance that's currently in fashion. Even Air would quickly abandon the cultivated library music aesthetic that characterized this record in favor of spindlier, more complicated, more sinister material. So yeah: As a snapshot of a place in time, you could do a lot worse than Moon Safari. But as something to be canonized in a threedisc set? The physics are lost on me. What, aside from the poetry of the number 10, is the exact reason to celebrate it now? Granted, it probably wasn't Air's idea to do this, and it's certainly not their fault that Moon Safari's legacy ultimately yielded a long list of bands along the lines of Lemon Jelly, Zero 7, Morcheeba, and Thievery Corporation, so perhaps it's fairer just to concentrate on what this reissue offers rather than the reason for it. The answer there, unfortunately, is: mixed returns. Although a robust collection featuring the original album, a disc of bonuses and Bsides, and a DVD featuring Mike Mills' 1999 tourfilm Eating, Sleeping, Waiting and Playing, this reissue doesn't offer nearly enough in the way of substantive bonus material to warrant its existence, nor does it even select the right material from that era to repackage. The bonus disc is the biggest indicator of the lack of quality control or thoughtfulness on hand: instead of material from the duo's excellent surrounding EPs, Le Soleil Est Près De Moi and the singles compilation Premiers Symptômes (a lot of which could actually benefit from having a light shone on it), we get five live tracks including a horrible, thrashy version of \"Kelly Watch the Stars\" which expose Air's live approach early on as light on musicianship and heavy on grating affectation and kitsch. Of the remaining demos and remixes, only the twominute long, stringheavy take on \"Remember\" (itself a resurrected Bside) and a sparse demo of \"You Make It Easy\" (from when it was an instrumental called \"Bossa 96\") are remotely illuminating. Everything else just feels incidental and reheated. Provided you like your filmmaking mannered and slightly cutesy, Mills' documentary remains a worthwhile curiosity, but even still, I can't imagine that anyone who'd be willing to shell out the money for a Moon Safari 10th Anniversary Edition wouldn't be acquainted with it already. Aside from that, you're basically paying for the packaging; in this case, that means a DVDsized hardcover package with a nice, if slightly unnecessary, lyrics book attached. As a case for Moon Safari as a classic record, it falls a little short. But as a nice keepsake of a lovely record, it could be worse. I guess in the end it's really just a matter of whether you're fanatical enough about this album to buy it again. Virgin's either betting (or hoping) that enough of you are. "}