{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11209/homepage_large.80d98a34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Spoon","title":"Don't You Evah EP","text":" The victory lap continues. It's hard to blame Spoon for fully soaking in the success of last year's sinewy Ga Ga Ga Ga Ga with nonstop tour dates, generous interviews, and now this eightsong EP. With the oddly named LP, Britt Daniel & co. purified their lessismore mantra like never before. Listening to the 36minute exercise in economy, it seems like the bulk of recording time was spent deciding what elements to take off each svelte track a ballsy statement of confidence in the Arcade Fire era. Plus, Spoon aren't dumb: They know albums like Ga Ga only come once or twice a career, even for a band so superhumanly steady. Barreling momentum aside, even the biggest \"Don't You Evah\" fan may be daunted by the prospect of a CD filled with seven iterations of the bulbous tune. So it's a testament not only to Spoon's taste but also their groovebased malleability that this remix project is listenable at all. While \"Don't You Evah\" is an unlikely deluxe EP candidate, its skeletal chug makes it ripe for interpretation a fact Spoon know all too well since the song was originally written by the nowdefunct NYC band Natural History, whose version caps this disc. Though the inclusion of \"Don't You Evah\"'s source serves as a humble nod, its utter averageness underlines the reasons why Spoon are your favorite indie rockers' favorite indie rockers. While the Spoon version is hardly a total revamp the bass riff, vocal melody, and arrangement are nearly identical little things like a slight uptick in tempo, a more colloquial title (\"Evah\" instead of \"Ever\"), some offthecuff studio banter, and a few lyrical adjustments make it a vast improvement. Both songs take on notions of commitment and the inevitable cold feet that come along with it. \"Hope you always think it's right/ With that ring is on the finger, feeling tight, tight, tight,\" goes the National History version, which gives advice in the tone of an older, wiser brother. \"Bet you got it all planned, right?/ Never fit to worry,never even feel a fright,\" sings Daniel, taking on a more sarcastic and roguish edge. The differences are slight, but important. The Spoon version is more openended it's unclear whether the protagonist comes to terms with marriage, busts out of his engagement, or simply goes through the motions miserably. And each of the six \"Don't You Evah\" remixes on this EP run with their own idea of what the track should ultimately feel like and mean. Ted Leo's excellently dubbed \"I Want It Hotter\" mix takes the song's husbandtobe on a hazy bender somewhere near Lee Perry's underground lair it's like an extended outro to the songwriter's recent reggae excursion, \"The Unwanted Things\", off last year's Living With the Living. Leo nails the druggy vibe so much that Daniel's introductory pronunciations of the song's first word (\"bet ... betuh\") sound like the musings of a smokedout couch potato to which the word \"bet\" has lost all meaning. The sizzling mix is noticeably more humid than Spoon's take, if not a bit hotter. Electrorock kingpin Matthew Dear's mix not only fills the apparent universal contract stating either he or Hot Chip must show up on every remix project in existence from now on, he does what Daniel couldn't according to another portion of the song's opening chatter  he makes it slick. Clearly influenced by fellow remix wiz Four Tet, Dear adds a circular acoustic guitar line and Cloud City keyboards to give the song a contemplative air. Here, it sounds like the track's central character has found happiness along with a couple kids and a manageable mortgage. It's hopeful as it drowns underneath its own sweet synths.  Elsewhere, party time mixers take things in more traditionally dancey directions. But keeping with Spoon's purposeful tact none turn in completely rote, neverending big bass bullshit. Diplo provides a tasteful, 1980s style rendition that's equal parts wistful and funky. DJ Amaze and Alan Astor show that maybe \"Don't You Evah\" isn't the best template for booty handclaps while MySpace find Doc Delay Fixerupper provides a novelty goofball mix somewhere between \"The Monster Mash\" and Justice. These versions stand in as youthful distractions, but they can't escape Daniel's worry: \"Bet you never think it feels right,\" repeats the singer on six of the EP's eight tracks. And if the record's only new song, the loner piano pusher \"All I Got Is Me\", is any indication, it seems like finer feelings may not come in pairs at all. So while the men in the middle of Spoon's spindly songs may not play well with others, the actual songs themselves are perfectly hospitable to outside interference. "}