{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1136/homepage_large.1030499a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Bunnybrains","title":"Box the Bunny","text":" You've probably never heard of Bunnybrains. Hell, even if you're from their hometown of Danbury, Conn., it's likely you've missed them, even though they've been around in various incarnations for more than a decade. There is a chance that you've seen them without realizing it, though they may have been that group of weirdos with sheets over their heads playing incomprehensible, disorganized psychrock at top volume before Gas Huffer came on. Their frontman, Dan Bunny, would have screeched like a baboon, maybe burned a book or something and quite possibly yelled at you. It might have been ironic, but God only knows these days.Box the Bunny, a fourCD set of everything the Bunnybrains released from 1993 to 2004, is the apotheosis of bizarre, inexplicable reissues, an unbelievably comprehensive career retrospective of a band that in all likelihood very few people care about. They've even scraped together an interminable DVD of poorly filmed, wicked lowfidelity live performances that I watched in its entirety in the name of journalistic integrity. By the time I got to the just plain weird footage of Dan Bunny gyrating naked, covered in soap with his hands in his crotch I wasn't sure what day it was, what was going on, or why I was still forcing myself to watch. In total, it barely has the appeal of a car wreck. But even without the DVD, four CDs is a lot of music, and it's impossible to sit through all of these particular four CDs in one sitting. I've tried it, and it can't be done at least not without the aid of hard, hard drugs. Bunnybrains didn't exactly mature with age, and the stomping, chaotic garagepsych jams on the fourth disc, which comprises the Show Me the Bunny album, sounds about as soupy as and actually less developed than the first, which goes all the way back to their 1993 debut album. The basic sound of Bunnybrains is built from a few simple elements heavily distorted guitar, pounding drums and sporadic, gruffly shouted vocals, and in fact the last disc is the least diverse and most listless, consisting almost entirely of thrashing guitar feedback, bass strangled in fuzz and flailing crash cymbal (it seems sort of fitting that the band really devolved over the course of their...um, career doesn't quite seem like the right word). The only respites come from Dan's humorous interjections, particularly his verbatim quotation of the countoff intro to Sweet's \"Ballroom Blitz\" in the opener \"Dan Says Alright\", one of the rare songs with no parentheses in the title (most of them have more than one parenthetical [or bracketed] section). The earlier material is more inspired after all, the band actually managed to get Matador to release one of their albums on vinyl, Bunny Brains Easter (one wonders if Gerard Cosloy lost some kind of bet). You get the occasional Andy Kauffman moment like \"(I'm in the) Bucket (Keith)\", where it sounds like the CD is skipping, complete with the noise of the stuck laser, a smattering of answering machine messages from angry neighbors and skits mostly involving college DJs, but it's still pretty universally ponderous stuff, and there's just no way of getting around the fact that a lot of the material just sucks, and even the stuff that's focused enough to leave an impression, like \"Hello (Reset the Single Malt)\" isn't exactly melodic. It also doesn't bother being either accessible or experimental, and frankly, I've seen dozens of bands playing in Connecticut church basements, high school cafeterias and Elks' clubs who were much better, or at least more distinctive. There are a couple of fairly brilliant moments on the first two discs, and in fact if anything is going to make this unwieldy set worthwhile to anyone, it's undoubtedly the best material on these two volumes. \"Drugs No Way\" is an outandout fantastic (and sarcastic) PSA featuring schoolkids singing an antidrug jingle that out of context could be mistaken for a real Nancy Reaganapproved ditty for fifth graders to sing to their parents. \"Jimboogie\" is credible psych in the Tadpoles vein (though not nearly as good as that band), and the two consecutive versions of \"Model Bitch\" that appeared on their first album are stomping, righteously amateur freakouts that hint at real talent unfortunately hidden elsewhere. It's difficult to imagine anyone but the most rabid 30 or 40 aficionados of American pop culture arcana and rock so obscure it barely qualifies as underground finding much worth in this nonetheless lovingly compiled collection, even with its (low by collectors' standards) $17 price tag. The sad truth is that this doesn't dig up some underappreciated geniuses or lost classics of Northeastern counterculture. It just puts the output of a willfully, justifiably obscure local band in one place for easy consumption. I suppose there's a place for that, but it's a very limited place, and this set ultimately doesn't reward the investment of time it requires. "}