{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11219/homepage_large.2da23623.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Constantines","title":"Kensington Heights","text":" Every Constantines release from their 2001 selftitled debut to a pair of EPs to 2003's Shine a Light, was the stuff of thumbtacked liner notes on bedroom doors, worn and threadbare tshirts, frayed patches sewn on backpacks and jackets nay, tattoos. They stole brazenly from heroes of dinosaur rock while dressing down their idol culture in their lyrics and demeanor, and reconstructed their music to a desperate beat. It was enough to make you believe rock and roll was a dead horse worth flogging. Yet the band's third album, Tournament of Hearts, found the band tugged in a few different directions, one of which was unexpected ballad \"Soon Enough\". That track was an ode to finding fulfillment by merely living up to the responsibilities of adulthood; after all their former bluster, the introspection and maturity felt fully inhabited and earned. Now, however: Are you ready for nearly an entire album of that? Well, almost a whole album: Opener \"Hard Feelings\" is as muscular and flailing as anything in the Constantines' catalog, but given the rest of the record, it seems like a capitulation to their old selves. The chorus of \"Million Star Hotel\" is slow and blustery, as if the band's jagged edges have been sanded off. \"Trans Canada\" starts with a keyboard pulse that's half train whistle, half trance anthem but its insistent chug leads to a fullband climax and the record's heaviest moment. Singer Bryan Webb has said \"Trans Canada\" was torn apart and rebuilt from scratch, and it reflects that, standing a few yards astride of the Kensington Heights' uniform tone while hitting the album's emotional peak. And while \"Our Age\" also nails a note of yearning, thanks to its stately melody and Webb's growth as a vocalist, the rest of the album seems weary and resigned. Even at their fiercest, Constantines sounded liked bruised and battered romantics, so a slower, more worldweary album is a natural but maybe too comfortable choice. Though there's still some traces of pride and defiance to be found here, like on the weeping guitar bends of the simmering \"Time Can Be Overcome\", the second side of the record is especially troubling. \"Credit River\" is a jump (and faceplant) into topical waters where Webb sounds nearly too bored to finish the chorus and keyboardist Will Kidman, who added so much to earlier songs, smothers the track in gaudy, dated effects. Just as jarring is the album's closer, which marries manufactured catharsis with shrugging bathroomwall slogans. Webb's glassgargling voice can make him sound like the mouthpiece of the disenfranchised, but on \"Do What You Can Do\" he can't muster up anything insightful.  Maybe Constantines aren't just tired, but mortally afraid the specter of death that lingers over the city doctor of \"Million Star Hotel\" spreads to hospital rooms in the rootsier \"Brother Run Them Down\" but without any of \"Hotel\"'s tension. In the face of that mortality, Webb offers a cold shoulder to bannerwaving and perpetual youth: \"You are not your generation.\" No doubt that the best halves of this and Tournament of Hearts would equal a breakthrough album for the group, but taken as a whole, Kensington Heights sounds like a decisive break in the band's stride. What lingers after it's done, if not the songs, is how comfortably the group has slid into this lower gear.  "}