{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11229/homepage_large.0b663d2f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Robert Hood","title":"Fabric 39","text":"  I couldn't sleep, so I crept downstairs and turned on the TV, only to be confronted by Gregg Araki's 1992 film The Living End. The suicidal, sadomasochistic gay lovedeath pact the film details was suitably confronting for my fragile fourteenyearold mind, but really what stayed with me later were images of cars speeding through underpasses at night, and telephone conversations in darkened rooms, all to the soundtrack of cold, nihilistic computer music. Surely, I thought to myself, this was the future. Later on, the actual soundtrack of The Living End all snarky lateeighties industrialrock struggled to convincingly stand in for the future for me. But if I want to recreate the way that music felt to me at the time, it's hard to look past the cold delirium futurism of hardasnails techno. One can draw here a slight, vague distinction between the future and the futuristic: Robert Hood's style doesn't sound avant in the \"How'd they do that?\" sense (for that, the best candidate remains the more fractured end of drum & bass), but in its scorchedearth stance towards traditional notions of musicality it's less about the profundity (or even proficiency) of technology than the absence of humanity. Like a city carved into the face of a cliff, Hood's brand of techno is defined by the everpresent threat of its harderfasterstronger impulse tumbling over into outright mindlessness. Of course, one can question this idea of a line beyond which the mind stops, where all that is left is compulsive somatic jerking. And yet, the music itself sounds like it believes in such a brink, and the sense of inhuman restraint required to stop just short of it is integral to its appeal. For those who have become properly acquainted with dance music only during this decade, the operating principles of Hood's new DJ mix for the Fabric series may seem foreign, even alien: most tracks eschew the recent vogue for narrative development in favor of a nearstatic loopiness. Narrative is instead provided by Hood's relentless mixing, racing through thirtytwo tracks (double the current standard amount) in less than eighty minutes. So it's not surprising that the mix covers a lot of ground, even when at times it can seem to barely change from one track to the next.  The easiest to like (and probably my favorite) parts of Fabric 39 are those which unabashedly embrace the chilly dawn of the posthuman, their riotous detail suggesting that something definitely survives beyond us. I'm thinking of the bleepy propulsion of Hood's own \"Element 9\" and especially \"Who Taught You Math\", all darting deliquescing synth patterns  Detroit techno with all the nebulous \"soul\" replaced by the frenzied activity of hivebuilding insects or \"And Then We Planned Our Escape\", with its cavernous dub echo and scintillating textures. At the opposite end of the spectrum are a selection of tuff (not tough), lightning speed filterdisco productions reminiscent of Derrick May's Mayday mix. These tracks are \"posthuman\" only in the strict science fiction sense, their pleasurecentered muscularity close enough to our own enjoyment to suggest, not our obsolescence, but where our desires might take us in the future.  In between is a swathe of sternly selfcensoring machinemusic whose appeal is a little less selfevident. The old line that \"you've got to dance to this in a club to truly understand it\" gets wheeled out a little too often for my liking, but it holds true to this extent at least: The lessons of this music are learnt by the body first, and the mind cracks their method only belatedly. Unless you can imagine dancing to Adam Beyer's remix of UK Gold's \"Agent Wood\", its strobing, scraping percussive riffs will hold no meaning, will seem to be merely arbitrary arrangements of noise around a dictatorial beat. However, while the enthusiasts may disagree, from my relatively uninformed perspective there is a line beyond which this music does start to resemble the pointless pound of its detractors' strawman imaginings. It's difficult, for example, to see much to like about the murky thud of Mion's \"Drop The Filter\" or Pacou's \"XFactor\".  Where is that line? It's easier to point to examples falling on either side, and thrill to the minimalist but irresistible funk of Hood's \"School\" with its compressed syncopated riffs and distorted vocal samples. You can't move to this groove like you can with house music: at such a blistering tempo, you're locked into the controlling stomp of the kick drum. But your body can register the difference between that stomp and the countergrooves that ripple across it, such that the arrangement sheds its monolithic appearance, replaced by a deeply satisfying, tense elasticity.  Pacoustyle techno (and I admit that we're now dealing with incredibly fine distinctions, but bear with me) works by eliminating all but the barest traces or echoes of multivalence in the groove, which remains as a mere hope or possibility that the body stubbornly clings to. This makes a little more sense in theory than in practice, taking the inherent tension of this music to a logical extreme that becomes a vanishing point, all but indistinguishable from a joyless thump. On the other hand, the emergence out of such dark stretches can be thrilling in practice fully as much as theory, such as when Pacou's \"All It Takes\" (not very much presumably being his point) gives way to the flashing hihats and rising synth paranoia of Phase's \"Mass\".  Anyway, vanishing points are by definition a matter of perspective, and maybe the only difference between me and the real enthusiast is that their focus has been shifted so as to see even further down that infinitely receding tunnel. One can only guess at what spells of privation would be required to reach such a state; thankfully for the rest of us, Fabric 39 rarely demands it, and I have to assume that, if faced with the joyous robosalsa assault of Los Hermanos' remix of Hood's \"Still Here\", the hardened veteran would succumb as quickly and as easily as I do.  "}