{"label":" Green Owl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11255/homepage_large.149210c3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Green Owl Comp: A Benefit for Energy Action","text":"  It feels downright, well, uncharitable to critique a compilation put together by environmentally responsible dogooders who are donating their profits to the Energy Action Coalition. But, it has to be said, the songs that are collected here have little to do with one another. Unlike other similarly diverse anthologies, the bands on this comp aren't connected by a unified aesthetic, label, or location; they are simply united by virtue of their altruism. How else would Harper \"Son of Paul\" Simon's dusty, spare \"Henrieta\" end up in a tracklisting with an overblown live Muse performance (replete with the noise of a screaming crowd) and an intimate Citizens Band gypsycabaret act? There is no throughline, no connective tissue to bind these tracks together or make listening to them as an \"album\" necessary. (In fact, you'll wonder if its creators ever made a mixtape before when you hear such jarringly disparate songs abutting one another.) But, while the sequencing may be disorienting, many of the 16 tracks on The Green Owl Comp's first disc are quite good when taken on their own. Of Montreal's \"Feminine Effects\", unavailable elsewhere, is a wonderfully torchy piano ballad à la Bowie's \"Life on Mars\". The contribution by School of Seven Bells, Benjamin Curtis' postSecret Machines band with On!Air!Library! sisters Alejandra and Claudia Deheza, is a reverberating march of twinkling effects, glitchy Bjorkian rhythms, and insistently echoed drones of womanly harmonies. And Violens, a new project featuring LansingDreiden members, may be less than a year old, but they are already the best discovery of this collection. Their stoned, sweet \"Trance Like Turn\" features sunny, vintage harmonies that peek through the gray clouds of their steely, postpunk beats and synthesized aggression. New and exclusive if unnecessary versions of already excellent songs by Feist (The Reminder's \"Honey Honey\"), Deerhoof (Friend Opportunity's \"+81\"), and Bloc Party (A Weekend In The City's \"The Prayer\") fill out the rest of the disc along with a couple of rougharoundtheedges tracks by the Green Owl founders' bands (the Appletrees, the Exit). The second disc bills itself as a bonus, and it's true, most of the extras are superfluous. After all, Billy Parish of Energy Action might be an environmental hero (so says Rolling Stone), but are you really going to watch a video interview with him more than once? Ditto the six lowbudget music videos. But the additional tracks on disc two represent a wellspring of music. Between CSS's buzzing, electrifried remix of Asobi Seksu's \"Strawberries\" and the distorted, rhythmic antagonism of A Place to Bury Strangers' \"Never Going Down\", some of the collection's best songs are confined to this disc, which, I suspect because of its video components, I couldn't get to play in anything other than a DVD player.  Despite some missteps, Green Owl Records has its heart in the right place and its fingers on the pulse. Not only do the folks behind the label recognize the need for environmentally friendly music business practices how many CD jewel cases must end up in landfills? Green Owl's packaging is 100% recycled but they have pretty good taste in bands too. In your portable music player you can remedy their egregious sequencing and ignore the handful of lessthanstellar songs. Unfortunately, the best tracks will still be trapped on that DVD.  "}