{"label":" Cardboard","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11262/homepage_large.895f44e1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Ecstatic Sunshine","title":"Way","text":"  Exceptions certainly abound, but the muchcelebrated musical mess coming from Baltimore for the last several years seems to have been successful in part because it augmented outsider sounds with the tension of playfulness: Dan Deacon's kaleidoscopic electronic music sounds like the sweat of a man who has chased too much tiedye must taste, and the sometimes maudlin, sometimes awesome a cappella sendups of Lexie Mountain Boys incorporate grunts, wails, and claps into songs about chicken and cheese. Perhaps you remember Baltimore expats Animal Collective singing sweetly against college for 53 seconds on Sung Tongs? Or, more recently, how fellow Interstate 95 North travelers Yeasayer named their debut All Hour Cymbals and apocalypseobsessed or no managed to squeeze some humor into such questionable times. Video Hippos? Ponytail? Santa Dads? All funny names for interesting music. While jokes are one thing, jocular mischief embedded within provocative, exploratory, erudite music is another: Deacon has dual degrees in electroacoustic and computer music from New York's Purchase College, and he admits that he wants his tunes to work both at parties and on headphones. I watched Boys ringleader Lexie Mountain run with some of the top names in noise at a festival last year, and I think Ponytail's forthcoming debut, Ice Cream Spiritual, is one of the more agile and enterprising instrumental rock records of the year. It just happens to be lined with playful vocal outbursts and antiphonies. Enter Ecstatic Sunshine, a Baltimore band that was, until sometime last year, the guitar duo of Dustin Wong and Matt Papich. The two met in a Baltimore arts school in 2004, and, by 2006, they'd released two albums of wellrehearsed, tightly executed minisuites for guitar. The counterpoints were colorful and quick, and both the pace and crunchy, thin guitar tones spoke more to house parties than conservatories. But while the music glowed and winked like the band's name, the pair's instrumentals were complex and precise. They weren't getting by on mere concept.  Wong left Ecstatic Sunshine last year to focus fulltime on Ponytail, but, before his departure, he and Papich invited another art school friend, Kieran Gillen, to join on electronics, mixing and sampling both guitar lines in realtime. This incarnation of Ecstatic Sunshine recorded Way, the band's third LP and first for Cardboard Records. Where the guitarmonies and action arches of 2004's New Kind of Imagination and 2006's Freckle Wars were playful to the fault of a shtick, Way pulls back to the other side. Here, ornamental guitar lines converge and crackle into coruscated power drones or beam by like rainbows in curved air. Some would say it's \"serious\" music.  Some moments shimmer: Opener \"B\" immediately sounds like the old Ecstatic Sunshine, rigorous guitar lines pinging off of one another in a bright sonic space. But the familiar sound gets jostled in the speakers, alternately amplified and undercut by Gillen's electronics and guitar playing that's not trying to impress wouldbe guitar heroes now. The sounds stretch, clip, reverse, circuit: Imagine Music for Airports on amphetamines (that is, still sort of slow) or the Field with cough syrup instead of drum machines.  Other moments abrade, albeit lightly: \"B\" empties gently into \"Herrons\", which floats thin, pretty guitar tones into small little circles. A grey band of noise leaks across the channels, overtaking the track just before the 30second mark. Skip to a random point along the rest of the sevenminute track, and the sound may jar you. But start again, and notice Ecstatic Sunshine's accomplishment. By slowly mixing in the noise and always keeping those astral whirs within earshot, they make the slow ascent into abrasion welcoming and, in a way, gentle. Fully committed to that idea, it's a perfect track.  Previous fans will no doubt lament the loss of the quirkier, twopiece Ecstatic Sunshine, especially because an LP that sounds exactly as transitional as it is serves as the duo's obituary. Papich has indicated that the band is headed even further out, and he's added another electronicist, David Zimmerman. When I saw the trio play in March, they were heavier and more risky than I'd ever heard them. Indeed, more exciting than a band capable of churning out endless cheeseball anthems for two electric guitars is the band capable of doing such and running in the opposite direction. Way is a humble first step in what sounds like a glorious new trip, where the really well played guitar becomes something else entirely. Fear not: Especially on closer \"Perrier\", which moves from subliminal washes of sound to a fullon, distortionup, rockout coda in 10 minutes, that suggest endless possibilities, Ecstatic Sunshine still cherish the transcendent and the playful. After all, how can a band with a name like that ever be completely serious?  "}