{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11275/homepage_large.aa2ad82c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Nôze","title":"Songs on the Rocks","text":" Common sense dictates never to trust techno that's aimed as much for the pub as it is for the club, and thus we are to be skeptical of Nicolas Sfintescu and Ezechiel Pailhès, the absurdist duo behind Nôze. Their first couple of records, while leaning just on this side of minimal techhouse, always shuffled in and out of drunkstep, taking nonsensical barroom lyrics and mixing them in with various jazzinflected reed instruments, steammachine hihats, and pounding basslines. On Craft Sounds and Voices and 2006's How To Dance, it's never quite clear whether they're poised cosmopolitan producers or just a drink away from GainsbourghittingonWhitneyHouston. Early last year, their Remember Love 12\" dropped and signaled a move even further out of the club, the pulse of a deep house groove pummeled into a piano line, an effete yet fullyformed song about fucking around on your sigoh.The piano figures heavily on Songs on the Rocks, almost to the point of parody, but this is still as complete an artist album as any released on Get Physical in recent memory. Those stylistic tweaks employed for the sake of \"songiness\" on \"Remember Love\" have been blueprinted into long form, with pianos and guitars filling the timbral space once gobbled up by synthesized squelches and samples; actual versechorusverse dynamic shifts and turnofthecentury French folk play themselves out into the ether of minimal beats. Nico and Ezechiel have always gotten off on contributing their own singsong vocals, but they've gone from adding simple hooks and vocal grooves to penning fullyformed lyrics. Nico utilizes a peculiar cabaret growl (made popular elsewhere by Man Man's Honus Honus or Tom Waits) whenever he wrests control of the mic, but otherwise the two harmonize catchy little ditties in their awkward Frenchaccented lilts. Immediately following the timpanidriven beats (!!) of \"L'Inconnu Du Placard\", the pair also bring some star power into \"Danse Avec Moi\" in the form of Dani Siciliano's duet with French singer David Lafore on a piano laced technotango.It certainly seems like Nôze chose the right time to aim for accessibility. They've gained more than their share of exposure lately due to the DJKicks series, having been featured on backtoback mixes by Hot Chip and Booka Shade. The latter features this record's \"Slum Girl\", but as is often the case with DJKicks, Booka Shade make a happy decision of taste in editing out Nico's vocals. Here's the problem: \"Slum Girl\" as Booka Shade sees it is a dramatic, expansive orchestral work, one that in their hands recalls the vivacious cinematic minimalism of Alain Goraguer's score to the classic animated scifi film La Planète Sauvage. To Nico, it's a vehicle for him to growl a double of the guitar line, in effect lessening the impact of the composition. Nico better services the classic rock postures of \"Childhood Blues\", where it's actually appropriate to invoke the selfeffacing impotence of British bluesrock.A short, balladized take on How To Dance's \"Kitchen\" closes the record, fittingly distilling the original's hardpartying, comehither hoedown into a refreshing stab at solemnity. Of course, they're singing \"I'll make you come/ All night long,\" but then, actual gravitas might be asking too much. Because while they may be the jetsetting, free lovin' Frenchmen they want everyone to think they are, their songbased oeuvre seems even more suited to pounding a night out at the local 17th District dive than wooing highclass sophisticates. Either way, you'll just have to trust them. "}