{"label":" Tompkins Square","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11283/homepage_large.bcc08ce8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Imaginational Anthem Vol. 3","text":" Released in 2005 to widespread acclaim, the first volume of Tompkins Square's series Imaginational Anthem stands as a highwater mark of the contemporary American Primitive guitar movement. Since that collection's release, the deluge of fingerpicked guitar records has continued unabated, and Tompkins Square has become the sort of magnet for talented guitarists that John Fahey's legendary Takoma label once was. A second Imaginational Anthem compilation arrived in 2006, and several of the series' alumni including James Blackshaw, Jack Rose, Glenn Jones, and José González have since each released multiple solo albums across a variety of labels. At the same time there has also arrived a bounty of unearthed 1960sera folk guitar albums, including Tompkins Square's own reissues of seminal works by Robbie Basho and Harry Taussig. The American Primitive market therefore is as flooded as it has ever been, and even the most diehard guitar aficionados can afford to be pretty goddamn choosy. So due to the timing of its arrival and thanks in no small part to Tompkins Square's own success at making so much topflight guitar music available the new Imaginational Anthem Vol. 3 bravely risks redundancy as it returns once again to the seemingly inexhaustible folkguitar wellspring. As with the first two volumes in the series, label chief Josh Rosenthal has curated IA3 with a loving, handcrafted touch, gathering artists from both past and present to construct an informal timeline for the music and its traditions. While past editions have included rare cuts from genre pioneers like Fahey, Sandy Bull, and Robbie Basho, this collection places focus on a broad crosssection of lesserknown performers. The set features guitarists from around the globe, including Steffan BashoJunghans (Germany) , Cian Nugent (Ireland), Ben Reynolds (UK), as well as players from virtually every corner of America. Despite this globetrotting, there are frustratingly few actual regional variations in evidence, as the musicians seem to draw upon the same familiar Takomaderived pool of folk, bluegrass, and raga influences. So much so, in fact, that even after repeat listens it is challenging to recognize each track's performer or point of origin without assistance from Rosenthal's informative liner notes.  Of course, with this many exceptional musicians on board there are still some stellar performances here, and with a slightly more adventurous tilt than on past volumes. The virtual unknown Richard Crandell, who also appeared on the Numero Group's recent rarities collection Wayfaring Strangers: Guitar Soli, opens the album with the exquisite \"Zocalo\". This melodic piece, which echoes the British folk of John Renbourn or Wizz Jones, is one of the most lucid and addictive guitar tracks of recent memory. (And in case it hasn't yet been made clear, there's been a bunch of them.) Frequent Keith Fullerton Whitman collaborator Greg Davis contributes the mesmeric \"Sleep Architecture\", whose gentle dreamwaves are eventually resolved in a disorienting swirl of field recordings and tape effects.  Most arresting of all might be George Stavis' \"Goblins\", a thorny work for fivestring banjo that was originally cut for his 1969 Vanguard album Labyrinths. Packed with furious action and melodic digression, this piece moves to its own infernal logic and gives the album's latter stretches a muchneeded jolt of energy. Elsewhere, however, there are too many tracks that illustrate the elusive challenge of finding a distinctive style in this crowded field. Shorter pieces by Nathan Salsburg and Matt Baldwin fail to establish much of a presence, while on \"Blue Mountain Raga II\" even the phenomenal BashoJunghans spends too long fruitlessly chasing himself in circles.  Despite such lapses, IA3 does add another worthy chapter to the Imaginational Anthem series, which is now also available as a box set containing all three volumes. Taken as a whole, these three albums provide a comprehensive overview of the ongoing American Primitive movement, and will likely provide a large enough resevoir to tide you over handsomely should that acoustic guitar drought ever come. "}