{"label":" Lex","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11276/homepage_large.1cf3db31.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Subtle","title":"ExitingARM","text":" ExitingARM  is Subtle's \"pop\" album. And by that they mean it's their most accessible album to date, and an answer to a problem that's plagued them since they started: How do you make something dense and personal, a body of work that demands time and dedication and then hook a wide new audience, hang onto their ears, and make them understand it? Their new album highlights what's always been catchiest about Subtle's music: it's full of short, fast bangers that you can enjoy out of the corner of your ear. But scratch the surface, and you find something far gnarlier the most intricate realization yet of the vision of frontman Doseone, a.k.a. rapper, poet and visual artist Adam Drucker.ExitingARM  is the latest chapter in the story of Hour Hero Yes, the middleclass rapper whose rise and struggles are chronicled told on 2004's A New White and 2006's For Hero: For Fool. It's hard to talk about \"what happens\" in a story that fluidly moves between fiction, memoir, and surrealism, but nevertheless: at the end of For Hero: For Fool, Hour Hero Yes drops through a door and into a world that's a twisted version of our own. As soon as he lands, he's captured by the Ungodz, Revered Pitman and Dr. MoonorGun. They lock him in their keep and force him to crank out perfect pop songs, while he sneaks out subversive messages that tell the truth about what's going on.But these records also tell the story of Subtle, and their quest to break out of the althiphop/Wire  feature niche where they've all lived for so long. Leaving behind their first bedroomproject EPs and the lofi A New White, they've become aggressive and astonishing and still bleeding edge. Too textural for top 40, with beats too hard for the experimental bin, the new album draws on the same palette as before: they're still a sextet with drums and drum machines, synths and laptops, Dax Pierson (still contributing, via Ableton Live, after the van accident that rendered him quadriplegic), guitar and woodwinds where they need them, a fulltime cellist, and Doseone's vocals which are gruff, high, gibbering, bragging, and blissful. From the krautrock throb of \"Day Dangerous\" to the closing drift of \"Providence\", the arrangements take fewer left turns and ace hooks an aching falsetto harmony, a riff on an analog keyboard sweeten every song.Yet Doseone didn't skip the hard parts: instead, he split the project across two media the record, and a Flash website loaded with drawings, simple animations, and hidden poems, that'll run up to 20,000 words and spell out the mythology in unprecedented depth. The website and the records expand on one another. To take one example, flip to chapter one of the almanac (\"Ungodz Splay\") and click around until you find \"Trouble in Anchorage\"; then listen to ExitingARM's \"The Crow,\" this time knowing where the bird came from.If this all sounds heavy, it's because you're not listening to Doseone deliver it. He speaks and raps in a highlyrefined style that I'll refer to as a cant. It's built on free associations and quick, complex metaphors delivered at disturbing speed, and disjointed with contradictions and negatives, with lots of \"not\"this, or \"un\"that. Read the lyric sheet cold, and it's impenetrably abstract yet the sound of the language is pleasing for its own sake, which puts him right on the shelf between Ulysses  and Dr. Seuss.The album boasts the most opaque lyrics in Subtle's catalog. But put the record and the website together, and the big themes become clear. Hour Hero Yes is a middleclass hero who fights apathy and consumerism. Critiques of America come in forms both obvious (\"red white and blind\") and cryptic (the fork is \"the spirit animal of the American consumer,\" as he told blogger Mr. Mammoth). The Headache Twins, who are the heads of music television and rulers of \"the commodified world,\" are obviously the bad guys, and Hour Hero Yes wants to reverse the apathy that drags us toward \"the terrible great nothing much.\" Everyone still alive is called a \"goner,\" and as Dose puts it, twice: \"Q: what's working man's hope? A: they call it cope.\"But consider Hour Hero Yes' and really, Doseone's stake in this struggle. Hour Hero Yes has been forced to write hit pop songs, but his songs do not include the word \"I.\" They're anonymous, and Hour Hero Yes can only communicate through hidden messages in the lyrics, which means he keeps himself a secret in his own work: they are pop songs that come without a pop star. Which is exactly what Doseone has done on ExitingARM.  The man behind these lyrics has paid his dues and wants the rewards. As he told Pitchfork last fall, \"the knife is in our teeth.\" But if Dose is really after fame, he's chosen an elusive path to the top.Doseone has spent his career documenting the inner monologues, hidden secrets, and unnamable anxieties that we all feel, but don't put in words. We murmur this stuff in our heads on the train home, in our bedrooms where we hide in books and pick at our bodies. We all have our own cant, yet we never let ourselves use it. Instead, we settle for a common language and as Dose argues, that language gets simpler and cruder all the time. You can complain that Americans talk in pop culture references, but when's the last time you tried to express anything more private? Dose wrote a lyric about the moles on his penis; have you?Doseone is a confessional artist by nature. But where most indie confessors sell themselves as \"just like us,\" Doseone never will which is why his \"poppiest\" disc to date is also his toughest. While he gladly lets us into his head, he's not here to commiserate, so much as lead. He's not your new pop hero: rather, he's cast himself as an avatar, the patron saint of diaryscribblers, and penismolepickers, and worldcrushed workers. And the knife is in his teeth. "}