{"label":" Music House","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11277/homepage_large.4039a15d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Fat Ray & Black Milk","title":"The Set Up","text":"  Like Ford trucks, Detroit beatmaker/MC Black Milk uses dependability as a selling point. His 2007 debut, By Popular Demand, was one of the year's most consistent, if not terribly innovative, rap records, and he's arguably the brightest star in the postDilla Fat Beats/Stones Throw constellation; you'd be hardpressed to find a wack beat with his name attached to it. However, there was something of a telling moment thrown into the extravagant instrumentation of \"Luvin' It\", namely Milk uttering, \"This is the shit I wanna make, man.\" Since majorlabel hiphop is about as financially stable as mixed martial arts or original internet programming, even the bigger names have gone underground, but is the basement getting too crowded? Like most producer/MC doublebills, The Set Up traffics in lowered expectations so as to let either party go off on a tangent that might otherwise be considered too curveball on a real release. For those looking for Popularer Demand, Milk lays out his cards in quick fashion the wildly flanged \"Lookout\" comes out of nowhere, a Diwaliish club rumbler straight off of So Addictive (albeit without a particularly sturdy hook). It's even more glaring sandwiched between the relentless Ironman  boom of \"Flawless\" and \"Bad Man\", so mid1990s, you probably need to wear 40 Below Timbs and Triple Fat Goose just to fully appreciate it. From there on out, it's more along the lines of what we've come to expect from one of the most tireless producers working right now: weeping soul samples (\"Nothing To Hide\"), dusty breakbeats, the occasional string loop, the Foreign ExchangeonHGH of \"Take Control\" it all sounds pretty fantastic. What ties most of these tracks together is Milk's shattering, presently anomalous drum work. Be honest with yourself; between Kanye West popularizing chamber pop and European club techno and the prominence of southern synth merchants, when was the last time you heard a drum track knock?  But if there was a reason why Popular Demand was really good instead of great, it's an issue of what some would call consistency and the more skeptical listeners would call complacency. Maybe it's just projection on my part, but there seems to be a selffulfilling prophecy of \"real hiphop\" superiority due to the mere fact that they're rappin' on Music House about something other than the sort of topics that are deemed taboo on Okayplayer. Though clearly ambitious behind the boards, Milk and nearly everyone else don't seem all that interested in challenging themselves lyrically or revealing what makes them tick other than a metronome. Clocking in at nearly 40 minutes, The Set Up was likely meant as snack food, but as much as it can sate the listener, its impact doesn't last very long beyond the tantalizing proposition of what more versatile rhymers could've done with it.  In terms of flow, the main characters are certainly nice with theirs: Milk can be likened to Kanye with baggier clothes, and as for Fat Ray, he sounds like someone who learned the craft by listening to ReUp Gang tapes and fastforwarding through the Clipse. But whether it's coke puns or B+ battle raps, refusing to ever leave your comfort zone can only result in diminishing returns. The two are hardly subpar on the mic, but they stay in cruise control to the point where you only notice the speed bumps (mostly coming from Fat Ray) \"better make room like Fiddy's crib,\" \"we don't smoke squares, n***a rectangles,\" \"you see how we stack chips like Chester Cheetah.\"  Taken as a full experience, The Set Up ends up as a great beat tape and a pretty good full experience that, in a sneaky way, seems to dismiss the talents of the people involved. While Guilty Simpson does a pretty good job of roughing up his sixteen bars on \"Bad Man\", Beanie Sigel might've dug 'em a deep grave. What about finding the cave MF Doom is hiding in to lace up the syrupy keys on \"When It Goes Down\"? There's more than enough in Black Milk's track record that justifies him wanting to work with the best and having the best seek him out. And he may just be a part of something truly great in the future, but he'll have to decide whether his name will be on the spine or in the credits.  "}