{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1143/homepage_large.ec1940b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Behold...the Arctopus","title":"Nano-Nucleonic Cyborg Summoning EP","text":" Don't be fooled by the flaming skulls and innumerable body piercings: Progmetal bands are the geekiest collectives in contemporary music. They're geekier than video game cover bands. Even geekier than geek rock. When they're not sitting in their bedrooms memorizing scales and modes, they're performing finger exercises to increase things like pinky strength and pick speed. Behind every asskicking riff lies about a dozen years of neoclassical guitar lessons and privatelytutored ear training. On Behold...the Arctopus's second EP, NanoNucleonic Cyborg Summoning, the New York trio showcases years of extensive schooling on three incredibly dense progmetal opuses, hardly coming up for air over the course of a furious 17minute span. At the epicenter of this metal maelstrom is the touch guitar, or as Arctopus touch axman Colin Marston calls it, the \"12string Hellharp.\" The monstrosity spans the range of both bass and guitar and its frettap friendly design would make any guitar shop employee shit his pants. But enough advertising, how valuable is this thing musically? Sure, Marston can bend, tap, trill, slap, and pluck to his heart's content, but as Steve Vai and Yngwie Malmsteem have demonstrated time and time again, technical prowess isn't necessarily equated with aesthetic success. For several instances on opener \"Exospacial Psionic Aura\", Marston and company appear to buck this trend. The jazz breakdowns, blistering arpeggios, and almostcatchy outro make it worth waiting through entire minutes of mindless Mixolydian mode improvising. Unfortunately, the band blows their load early here, leaving little creativity for the remaining two tracks. Frenetic pick scrapes and blitzkrieg cymbal crashes at 180 BPM can get awfully tedious after 17 minutes, and excepting the occasional acidrock interlude, this is all the Arctopus pumps out. Metalshredding guitars and machinegun drumming should never become boring, but sadly the band's affinity for mathematical riffing and technical showmanship suck out all the fun. For a band whose moniker is a command, the Arctopus come off as pretty lackluster. And as for the \"12string Hellharp,\" I haven't seen ax gear this ridiculous since Spinal Tap's amps went to 11. "}