{"label":" Static Cult","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11292/homepage_large.a5f6a255.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Helvetia","title":"The Acrobats","text":"  Not much changes in the space station Jason Albertini and Canaan Dove Amber call home. After a decade of producing celestial music unperturbed by outside stimuli, the duo's heavenly stare remains unwavering, their minds still blown by how, like, huge the universe is, man. But while their former band Duster felt content to drift through the universe in near suspended animation, Albertini and Amber are willing to make spinoff project Helvetia sweat for its cosmic bliss. Their 2006 debut The Clever North Wind barely had a pulse, but the uneasy psych leanings and dark moods made the album anything but a stroll through the galaxy. Building off that, The Acrobats culls an even wider range of emotions from the band's combined sigh, showcasing surprisingly sharp (but sedated) pop chops carefully preserved in amber. It's no secret that scintillating guitar parts provide the fuel for Helvetia's space odyssey. On Acrobats, they're not afraid to set their axes to warp speed, even if it means sacrificing some of the lofi minimalism they're loved for. With guest appearances from veteran jamsters like Built to Spill's Brett Nelson and exDinosaur Jr. bassist Mike Johnson, they're more than capable of pulling off densely layered gems like \"Blasting Carolina\", a kaleidoscopic epic traversing folk, glam, and sunny psychpop. Standout track \"Old New Bicycle\" may carry the requisite stoner vibe associated with these guys, but it's more white soul than jam band. \"Honest Gods\" and \"Summer\" carry a similarly geeky libido, sounding too mathematical to be legitimately cool but, like equally stiffpostured acts the Walkmen or Kings of Convenience, pulling off the pop hooks all the same. So where does all this fretboard brio leave the vocals? Well, for the most part, buried six feet under the mix. When there isn't a nifty effect like the tube radio crooning on \"The Fever\" or \"Honest Gods\"'s chipmunkpitched harmonies, the melodies unfold pretty inconspicuously. Fortunately a threenote range goes a long way in Helvetia's brand of molasses pop, but when some of these songs do feel like boiling over (and yes, some actually do), the vocals aren't up to the task. That said, Acrobats proves a surprisingly engaging album from musicians who by all respects could be switching on autopilot at this point in their careers. Instead, they produce their catchiest piece of work to date while still keeping their riffs plentiful and their altitude at a steady 500,000 feet.  "}