{"label":" Language of Stone","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11301/homepage_large.1f549ea5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Festival","title":"Come, Arrow, Come!","text":" Preciousness seems particularly wellembedded in the consciousness of the practitioners of the New Weird Americana. The crumbled monolith of the Elephant 6 collective still keeps its watchful eye trained on the utopic pop of the Beach Boys; the more traditional freakfolks idolize the psychedelic UK folk movement, which itself espoused Renaissance tradition. Enter Alexis and Lindsay Powell, sibling masterminds of Festival, who implore visitors to their website to \"make fun with these ladies of the forest night,\" pining (no pun intended) for the creature comforts (no pun intended) of an existence quite impossible in their Brooklyn surroundings. Festival's debut album, Come, Arrow, Come! extols the virtues of campfire singalongs and epic loves, recklessly twined together with the strands of the girls' sinewy voices. (Pitchfork contributor Mike Powell is a member of Festival, though he does not appear on this album.) You can easily tell the difference between the sisters. Lindsay opens the leadoff cut \"Fair and True\" with plain, insistent resolve \"O the earth has dirtied this lonesome heart\" and is joined by the trained vibrato of Alexis for the end of the couplet \"And the wind has brought it to you.\" As the girls take turns spinning yarns of ageless love, their friends and family join in an unaccompanied chorus, with only spare percussion as counterpoint to an upwardreaching hymn of solemn sincerity. The acoustic guitar only sometimes communicates the songs' progressions, though the girls clearly find inspiration in sixstring tradition. In its place, sleighbells and creaky pianos gossip a millennium's worth of backwoods musics: the kind of interstitial mantras that echo from the coffeehouse, the church gathering, the picnic, the oldtime dance hall, the wild wood. While this project might belong with the freakfolk revivalists who fetishize Woody Guthrie and the acidic tinges of British folk, Come, Arrow, Come! gets at an elemental simplicity. Renaissanceinfluenced ballads appear next to songs best suited for a hootenanny. \"Zebulon\" recalls Druidic chants, then the percussive pulse of \"Bind Us All\" follows. The greatest unifying characteristic is the two voices, which swell and bend around each other with a fluency only achieved via familial relation.  Simpler than their acerbic cousins Espers, Festival champion aching directness. They're not messianic drumcircle leaders like Devendra Banhart or adherents to substanceinduced drone patterns like Six Organs of Admittance's Ben Chasny. In the truest sense of tradition, Lindsay and Alexis pick the lowhanging fruit of acoustic instrumentation as a means to communicate the poetic imagination of a balladic history through their voices. True to their online mission statement, this creative pair isn't celebrating AmeriAnglo tradition so much as imploring their fellow youth to conceive of a simpler, younger, better time. Considering the predicament of the Informationesque, NineElevenish, Bush Economy world, you'd best appreciate such romantic notions.  "}