{"label":" Asian Man","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11303/homepage_large.e3daef8a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Lemuria","title":"Get Better","text":"  We have a lot of fun rappin' with ya here at Pitchfork, but let's get serious for a moment: were the 1990s really that bad? Maybe it's a sign I need to spend less time talking with other music writers, because the consensus appears to be an overwhelming, \"dear fucking god, TOTALLY.\" Maybe I'm just naïve, having exited the decade as a teen, but Pinkerton, the NHL 9296, Higher Learning...we had some good times, right? It's within this context that I fear for Lemuria, even with a promising debut in tow. Because their sales pitch can definitely double as a dealbreaker for some: This sounds just like 1993. The Buffalo foursome may be playing it safe by aligning themselves with the likes of Superchunk and the Weakerthans, but I'm not buying it. If you were old enough to watch MTV and buy CDs, but too young to realize that Belly and the Breeders actually started as spinoff acts, Get Better probably rules. Indeed, Lemuria follow in the path of coy, mixedsex acts of the altrock era, and nowhere is that more clear than in the vocals. Sheena Ozzella and Alex Kerns have an inverse ratio of singing/songwriting, with Ozzella playing the Jenny Lewis role (clearly the lead, sweet and sour demeanor that skirts the \"girly\" tag) while Kerns is more of the Blake Sennett, sporting a slacker deadpan used far more rarely good for songbysong distinctiveness, not so much for harmonizing. Still, you'll be surprised just how fun this can still sound \"Pants\" has a rambling melody that recalls \"In a Big Country\" over four DOD fuzz pedal chords. But what comes across from \"Pants\" in particular is that many of these songs feel social and conversational. And none really take themselves too seriously; \"Yesterday's Lunch\" plays around with the line \"it doesn't matter if you've succeeded\" before dropping the Morrissey punchline at the end \"...you'll never feel successful until all your friends fail.\" Elsewhere, the subjects are steadfast in their everyday mundanity, things like drunk boyfriends, the girl in the mirror, store clerks.  But there's a reason you can go on Amazon.com with $20, buy back all of your Buzz Bin CDs, and still have change 75% of the time, you'd forget just about everything that happened from songs 710. Get Better loses a lot of its fizz in its second half as the hooks become more indistinct; \"Dog\" and \"Dogs\" apparently are different songs, but the lack of any real segue makes it impossible to tell, and as a whole, they fall into to a spate of subtwo minute blurs that don't establish a welcome they can even wear out.  Plus, I'm not sure we're ready for a song built on a thrift store metaphor just yet and while Ozzella is clearly the breadwinner, at times she overdoes it to hear her yelp \"I'm missing you MORE THAN I'M KISSING YOU\" is a bit...much. Still, Lemuria have positioned themselves properly with an enjoyable if somewhat inconsistent debut that the world might not be as ready for as they may be in three years or so when they release their sophomore jam during a (probably inevitable) 90s revival. By being slightly behind the times, Lemuria might just be ahead of the game.  "}