{"label":" Gnomonsong","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11305/homepage_large.6b46dd88.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"Vetiver","title":"Thing of the Past","text":"  Covers albums ask you to set aside some of rock crit's most reliable qualitative barometers, songwriting and \"artistic growth,\" for a slightly different set of evaluative tools such as interpretative skill and aesthetic cohesion. But what most fans (and covers albums are primarily for fans) expect from a covers collection is a private tour of a band's basement: its nascent influences, personal touchstones, even its embarrassing fanboy crushes. Vetiver, however, have never obscured their roots. Since the band's 2004 selftitled debut, Andy Cabic and his revolving lineup of players have camped at the various collision sites of rock, folk, psych, and country, combing through almost every inch of that frequently fertile soil. So its more weather than news that the band's latest LP, the accurately named Thing of the Past, digs exclusively in the crate marked \"19671973\", culling its covers from the catalogs of artists like Hawkwind, Townes Van Zandt, and Michael Hurley (the last appears on \"Blue Driver\"). Anyone hoping Vetiver would pull a Richard Thompson and cover Britney is out of luck. There's very little on Thing of the Past released on Cabic and Devendra Banhart coowned Gnomonsong to harsh anyone's mellow. Cabic's balmy tenor is as easy as ever on the ears, and its mild flavor is an actual advantage when called upon to shift from a  supporting role in \"Sleep a Million Years\" to the softrock lead in \"To Baby\". Until fullband jam \"Hurry on Sundown\" kicks up some modest dust eight tracks in, Vetiver hold heart rates in check with plenty of midtempos, acoustic instrumentation, and tasteful, gold soundz arrangements. The band also keeps interpretive liberties on a leash. Some of the album’s best cuts jaunty banjo ditty \"The Swimming Song\" and melancholy wallow \"Road to Ronderlin\" are potent because they're timetested, both virtual Xeroxes of, respectively, Loudon Wainwright III and Ian Matthews originals.  To his considerable credit, Cabic rescues several obscurities from the dustbin, including the aforementioned \"Sleep a Million Years\". First performed by an unGoogleable Dia Joyce, the dreamy folk tune is resuscitated with a dewy morningafter vocal performance by Vashti Bunyan (someone wellacquainted with musical second acts). \"Lon Chaney\", written by genrehopping, New York singersongwriter Garland Jeffreys and performed stately, if a little detached, by Cabic and Papercuts' Jason Quever on piano, is another neat find.  \"Lon Chaney\" opens the door to an intriguing point of inquiry, though. Like many artists in the period from which Vetiver draws, Jeffreys wrote political songs informed by passionately held progressive values (in Jeffreys’ case, racial equity). But Vetiver, in breaking their twoyear absence with a Vaselinesmeared backward glance, emanates a curiously apolitical, even reactionary, vibe. Make no mistake, Thing of the Past is a perfectly pleasant, wellproduced album that offers an authorized version of what Vetiver fans already unofficially know about the band. And if it doesn't make many false steps, it isn't exactly walking a ledge.  "}