{"label":" Nacional","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11310/homepage_large.25a548d9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Nortec Collective Presents Bostich + Fussible","title":"Tijuana Sound Machine","text":" There's a cheap gag in No Country For Old Men where Josh Brolin's character basically left for dead, his clothes caked in dried blood wakes up lying on the ground across the Mexican border to a mariachi band looming over his body. Never mind why a mariachi band would be performing for an unconscious gringo in the first place, especially since they seem surprised when he opens his eyes. The point's been made: if you're lying in the dirt beaten and bloody, is there anything you'd like to wake up to less than a mariachi band blaring away in your face? Again, it's a cheap gag, as Mexico's got one of the most vibrant music scenes in the world, from traditional mariachi music to Mexico City's rock en español contingent, the latter known for bridging the country's rich musical heritage with more modern sounds and strains. From the start, that's been the similar goal of Nortec Collective, whose name conflates the words \"norteno\" and \"techno,\" and whose music pairs manic accordion, trumpet, and bajo sexto with samples and electronic beats. Unfortunately, most of the songs on the group's Nortec Collective Presents: Bostich + Fussible Tijuana Sound Machine only fitfully fuse the traditional with the modern, and the problem sure isn't the acoustic instrumentation. If anything, there's not enough of the traditional in what often sounds like a Casio demo gone amuck, and the gimmick transforming accordions and horns into rhythmic tools feels, in fact, somewhat cheap. But what really hurts Tijuana Sound Machine is its relentlessly uninventive and static electronic flourishes, Nortec Collective's ostensible claim to fame. Wan ditties like \"Brown Bike\" and \"Wanted\", or the outright annoying \"Shake It Up\" make the mistakes not normally associated with the looseinnumbers but still tightly aligned members of the Collective, who in the past have skirted novelty. Here, on the other hand, with members Bostich (Ramon Amezcua) and Fussible (Pepe Mogt) taking the lead, track after track bleats out like an alarm clock from hell, less likely to call you to the dance floor than make you clutch that pillow tighter around your ears.  \"Mi Casita\", \"Akai 47\", and \"Mama Loves Nortec\" are nominally hip novelties, but novelties all the same, though the latter does finally allow the trumpet to shine through as more than just accent or afterthought. Of course, the relentless polka beat is a genre mainstay, but just as other dance music makes the most of 4/4, surely there's room for a little variation. Even when a track like \"Cetron\" briefly teeters toward an exciting bustle befitting its urban inspiration, it feels reigned in, overquantized, safe and sterile. And generally speaking, if there's one thing Tijuana is not, it's safe and sterile. "}