{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11314/homepage_large.31d9a7e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Christopher Bissonnette","title":"In Between Words","text":"  Albums as abstract as Christopher Bissonnette's In Between Words are practically engraved invitations to wax impressionistic, and I admit to filling my notes with unfortunate similes such as \"ascending longtones stacked like an obsidian ziggurat\" and references to the shadow of something winged and terrible and impossibly immense passing overhead. That images like these could apply to most dark ambient records limits their usefulness, except to say that this album satisfies a fundamental criterion of good abstract music: It lights up the imagination. More specifically, In Between Words is both calming and unsettling, very familiar and very strange, because Bissonnette is essentially turning the familiar Romanticera music of the 19th and early20th centuries insideout. This isn't Bissonnette's innovation titans like Morton Feldman paved the way yet the effect is especially pronounced on In Between Words. To test this idea, get your hands on a piece of Romantic music: Something dark and gusty and depressive that trembles exhaustedly on the cusp of Modernism will work best. Jean Sibelius' Symphony No. 4 in A Minor is really rad and perfect to illustrate this point. Listen to the string parts for awhile. First, you'll notice the soulwrenching melodies and the stories they tell. Then, you'll hear the quiet, somnolent rumble all around them. This balance of fluent melody and brooding atmosphere is part of why Romantic music was so good at the 360viewofhumanexperience thing: Like the great Russian novels of the same era, it combined rabid conviction with searing doubt. Its melodies told stories of human striving and collective belief, but its disquieting subtones hinted at the existential uncertainty at the fringes of these stories, which would come to dominate Modernism. In Between Words flips the Romantic dichotomy on its head, pulling the subtones to the surface and burying the remnants of narrative. \"Provenance\" begins with a desolate expanse of what sounds like stringed resonance with the actual melody edited out, as if someone had stripped away every narrative agent from a Sibelius symphony until only the murky hum at its root remained. When a discernible string melody appears, it's distended, distant, and wracked with electrical interference. Similarly, \"Orffyreus Wheel\" (note the tellingly corrupted mythological reference in the title) finds what sounds like a flanged guitar melody trying to articulate itself through a calm but obliterative gale. \"A Touch of Heartbreak\" sets hollowedout ghost voices in a blank, seething field, gradually whiting out into hushed static, and \"Tempest\" sounds like a carillon (a shortcut to religious ecstasy in Romantic music) being dragged awkwardly over craggy terrain.  The stories these compositions tell are not about mythology, or heroism, or even misery and ruin. In fact, they're not stories at all. Instead, they're elegies for the grand metanarratives that guided high Romanticism, which were approached skeptically by Modernism and hostilely by Postmodernism. Bissonnette is firmly in the latter camp: Right there in the album's deconstructionredolent title, he lets us know that he's most interested in what's unsaid. Luckily, he's an eloquent unsayer, and his music is elevated beyond the cerebral by a palpable longing for a time when meaning wasn't regarded such a chimerical, capricious thing.  "}