{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11306/homepage_large.05d9fe07.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"The Black Angels","title":"Directions to See a Ghost","text":" Trite as it is to dredge up drugtrip comparisons while attempting to describe how music sounds, there's a particular effect of failed, gonowhere attempts at psychedelic rock: It aims for making you feel like you're high, or at least able to empathize with the notion of feeling high, but instead it's like you're actually stuck in a room with someone else who's high while you're sober. They're having the time of their lives, experiencing all sorts of mindaltering creativity, and here you are watching them flail around inanely or, worse yet, they just sit there staring into space. Even with a few goodtogreat moments, this happens frequently during Directions to See a Ghost, the second fulllength from Austin's Black Angels: The trip is implied, but it's all a secondhand narrative that loses almost everything in translation. The band members play under the impression that they're going somewhere, but it's a completely different place than where they actually are, and in either case there doesn't even really seem to be much of a destination in the first place. Put this album amidst a thousand other songs on your mp3 player of choice, and eventually one of the tracks will come up, and it'll sound unique and startling and impressively fuzzedout and evil for a couple minutes. Odds are it'll then go on for another three or six or 14 until it becomes clear how little their grinding, snarling riffs and heavyfooted rhythms hold up under constant repetition. Sometimes this drone is enough to snatch your breath; there's enough of a melody (and a compellingly creepy one at that) in \"18 Years\" to sustain the song's five and a half minutes, and the slow, hypnotic swagger of \"Mission District\" pulls you in long enough to let one of the few really powerful crescendos on the album to hit you deadon. And even if it takes a while to get to its core, \"Never/Ever\" peaks with this burst of highspeed chaos that condenses everything cool about \"Sister Ray\" into an efficiently malicious explosion But those songs come after an opening volley of not much, as the vertiginous midtempo shoegaze of opener \"You on the Run\" melts into the lurching, swooning \"Doves\" and then into the thumping sludge of \"Science Killer\", each song canceling out whatever sensations you might have felt from the previous. And all the interminable recordending \"Snake in the Grass\" really does once it gets going (\"going\" used loosely) is get a bit slower twothirds of the way through its 16 minutes. Is it really worth listening to a song that goes on for more than a quarter of an hour if it actually loses energy the more it goes on?  The bastard of it is that the lyrics fit the tone well all gloomy invocations of warfare, betrayal, paranoia, and selfobsession. And these people can play: There's some sparks when guitarist Christian Bland snaps out of his robostrumming and actually sets about cranking out frightening peals of noise, Stephanie Bailey's drumming is forcefully solid even when the rhythms threaten to lull you into inattention, and every time I try to think of who lead singer Alex Maas is derivative of, I keep flashing back on their solidenough 2006 debut Passover instead, which is as good a sign as any of how distinct his flat but doomedsounding wail is. And if you isolate any random 45 seconds of Directions to See a Ghost's 70 minutes, you'll definitely be compelled to listen for another few minutes after which time you'll probably start waiting for a solo or a shift in tone that might not even come. One thing I've tried to keep in mind is the fact that the Black Angels tend to play live with film accompaniment, so maybe it works better in that context. Perhaps they could help those of us without any drugs by pressing this stuff on a DVD next time around.  "}