{"label":" Max Ernst","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11316/homepage_large.30207ae4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Thomas Brinkmann","title":"When Horses Die","text":" It's a great coincidence that Thomas Brinkmann's name, minus the \"Brink,\" is identical to that of another magisterial German moralist, as his long career serves as a corrective to the lingering prejudice that techno music is fundamentally hedonistic and/or mindless. At almost50, his elder statesman status feels earned, and the aloof whiff of philosophy in his music is softened by his handson, exploratory touch. He's never been afraid to reinvent techno and its tools for his own devices. The remixes on which he made his name involved his own specially modified turntables and records, with shapes actually etched into the vinyl, and on his last album, Klick Revolution, he imagined minimal techno as a cicada language that makes Ellen Allien's Sool sound like M83 by comparison.When Horses Die is a technosinger/songwriter album reminiscent of Matthew Dear's Asa Breed, but where Dear's electronic cabaret was mostly bright and fizzy, Brinkmann's is riveted in jetblack steel. Its intellectual content is literally literary, with the same surrealistic bent he betrayed in naming his label Max Ernst: Its title comes from a poem by Russian Futurist Velimir Khlebnikov, and while Brinkmann penned the lyrics for three tracks himself, most of them are appropriated from the likes of American land artist Robert Smithson (of \"Spiral Jetty\" fame), Tuxedomoon's Winston Tong, and Russian poets Joseph Brodsky and Marina Zwetajewa. The dominant themes are love and devotion, although rendered in Brinkmann's gravelly, drawling baritone, devotion's seamy underbelly a dark, helpless thrall comes into the open. This is especially apparent on When Horses Die's first three tracks, which are its most striking their glacial tempos and staggering weights seems to freeze the clock's hands as Brinkmann's voice echoes down, seemingly from somewhere far away and long ago. \"Words\" consists of a few glowing notes of piano in a slush of carefully controlled feedback, and Brinkmann's vocal somehow manages to be both spectral and anvilheavy. This thick atmosphere continues through \"Spiral\" and \"Birth & Death\": The former is a steamhissing meditation built on a wraparound synth tone, while the latter is an industrial march whose Teutonic rigidity makes for a good segue into the album's other mode.  I'm torn on this second mode: The contrast is welcome, but the idea of an entire album with the pace and gravity of the first three tracks is seductive. At any rate, an affinity beyond Dear (and how did I get this far without mentioning Suicide?) crops up in the album's midsection: namely, Trent Reznor, who is thanked in the album's liner notes, and whom Brinkmann told XLR8R was a big influence for When Horses Die (along with Joy Division and Stina Nordenstam). Beginning with \"Meadow\", time speeds up like a Guy Ritchie film trick, and Brinkmann embarks across a midtempo popindustrial landscape rich with precisely graphed percussion, spongey synths, and lowflying bass. It's wellturned and enjoyable, but seems a bit mundane next to the otherworldly dirges, a mode that returns, briefly, on the miragelike \"Uselessness\", and on closing track \"40\", which reprises the opening track's ethereal piano. It's jarring to go down a rabbit hole, only to find yourself suddenly shunted into the swarming, lively anthill of the album's midsection, but maybe that's precisely Brinkmann's angle like an expert hypnotist, he knows how to snap us back to reality just before we get too deep.  "}