{"label":" Kill Rock Stars / Wall of Sound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11318/homepage_large.e7c14063.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Shy Child","title":"Noise Won't Stop","text":"  The second most charming thing about dancerock duo Shy Child and their obsession with rhythm is that it's never entirely clear where they're taking their cues from like, does first single \"Drop the Phone\" sound more like recent Timbaland or one of the early singles from the Strokes? The most charming thing is that they don't sound like they care very much: who else would try to ride to fame on a piece of syncopated synthetic new wave skiffle singing about, literally, dropping a phone (as far as I can tell anyway)? But \"Drop the Phone\", as with most of Shy Child's third album Noise Won't Stop, is deeply lovable in spite of, or perhaps because of these unanswerable questions. \"Drop the Phone\" lays out the basic brief of Shy Child's sound: burbling, whining synthesizers occupying the roles of both rhythm and lead guitar, urgentsounding multitracked vocals (falling into the categories of \"rather yelping\" and \"very yelping\") that sound like they're being recorded into several megaphones in the next room, and cavernous, clattering drums that do their best to crowd everything else off stage, including the performances of singer Pete Cafarella. Cafarella's caffeinated performances survive and even benefit from this struggle for attention, partly because he can operate only in the registers of excited and extremely excited, and partly because his songs were never meant to be the focus anyway. While Shy Child are confined to tight, catchy versechorus structures, it's the song's status as a structure that makes it useful a structure around which to festoon an absurdly generous array of rhythmic ideas, and a parade of dazzling hook after dazzling hook.  Cafarella and fellow member Nate Smith have judged correctly: it's when Shy Child's grip on songcraft grows extremely tenuous that their music becomes interesting, even thrilling: from the schizophrenic \"Generation Y (We Got It)\" (imagine Junior Senior making Caribbean pop) to the overblown glamstomp of \"Astronaut\" (keyboard vamps and counterrhythms and overlapping vocal parts careening around like a wobbling, topheavy spinning top), Shy Child's best work uses the pop song form as a grocery list for their favorite musical tricks rather than as a selfcontained entity you can almost hear their childlike glee when they realize they can get away with a pompous Genesisstyle keyboard solo on \"Astronaut\" if they briefly pretend they're actually Wolfmother (note: thankfully they don't sound at all like Wolfmother). Noise Won't Stop doesn't feel like it has noticeably weak tracks, but there are certainly moments when Shy Child sound less remarkable, less worthy of distinction usually when they focus on trying to make proper songs after all. I'm sure that the propulsive sprint of \"Summer\" will be the favorite of many listeners: with its vaguely allusive (although perhaps just vague) tale of a final youthful whine of intransigence before subsiding into conformity, it's probably the song that best presents the duo as a full package, and even suggests they might have \"something to say\". But it's also the least interesting thing here, its strippedback, pounding groove attack evoking images of college kids getting their minds blown by Trans Am's Futureworld.  Conversely, Noise Won't Stop's best moment is the unabashed trancepop of album closer \"Cause and Effect\", which reminds me curiously of \"Don't Give Up\", Bryan Adams' millennial trancepop collaboration with Chicane. Here, the group's maximalist synthesizer pyrotechnics are exploited to a ridiculous extent, morphing from DJ Sammystyle atmospheric arpeggios through acid house bleeping and finally settling into the woozy warp speed churn of goa trance, sort of. Where \"Don't Give Up\" seemed to achieve its yearning soar a little too easily (soaring being the natural state of trancepop), \"Cause and Effect\" benefits from the friction between the music's effortless liftoff and Cafarella's grounded call and response chanting. It's probably the best rock song and the best trance song I've heard this year, and as a sidebenefit shows up just how myopic the usual conceptions of \"dancerock\" can be almost the first thought that ran through my head was \"why hasn't someone tried this before?\"  Perhaps it's simply that no other band working in this area seems so blissfully unconcerned about touching on the right reference points at least, not without a carefully arranged smirk already in place. In their fauxnaif openness, Shy Child are perhaps closer to Swedish dancepop duo the Tough Alliance than to anyone else, to the point that at first I was disappointed that Noise Won't Stop wasn't more sweet, more romantic, more fey more, in short, like the Tough Alliance themselves. What sets Shy Child apart is their residual muscularity, even masculinity: as surprising and inventive and occasionally cheesy as they are, they inhabit an irongrip tension, alert and wideeyed and on a hairtrigger at all times if the Tough Alliance sound effortless, Shy Child see dance music as something like an athletic training ground. Maybe this is why so many of their songs seem to be about the power of their own grooves (just see the song titles: \"Kick Drum\", \"The Volume\", \"Noise Won't Stop\") it's as if they're expending an immense amount of energy in wringing these sounds from their machines, and they can't afford to divert their attention by singing about anything else.  I suspect that this masculinity is Shy Child's secret weapon. For all the dancerock we've enjoyed and suffered through these last few years, there's precious few examples of bands being able to express their sweaty rock principles through (as opposed to alongside or even against) their dancefloor rhythms. For Shy Child, immersion in nonstop rhythm is just about the most \"rock\" thing they can do.  "}