{"label":" Nul","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11322/homepage_large.71721af9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"The Futureheads","title":"This Is Not the World","text":" When 2006's News & Tributes, with its restless genresurfing and morose aura, didn't move units, 679 dropped the Futureheads, who in turn eagerly started their own label, Nul Recordings. Now, unbound from the shackles of corporate pressure, the Sunderland band finally has a chance to spread its wings, to enjoy the sort of creative freedom artists like Radiohead or NIN have relished, to boldly chase its muse to the ends of the earth. Ladies and gentlemen, the Futureheads present This Is Not the World, an...economysize powerpop album? Apparently the backlash from Tributes hasn't scared the band away from penning threeminute pop standards; it's only convinced them to package their songs in a neater, more cohesive fashion. Miffed by Tributes' acoustic guitar sighs and lessthansyncopated textures? Well, World forcefeeds the listener with one heaping helping of homogeneous overdriven riffs and fistpumping choruses after another. The vocals similarly raise the stakes, broadening their focus from the tearfully quotidian to blistering anthems attacking society on the whole, likely a byproduct of their recent career shakeup. Opener \"The Beginning of the Twist\" may ostensibly refer to a romantic relationship, but Barry Hyde's rallying cry (\"It's time to wake up/ It's time to change\") feels like snarky selfcommentary, foreshadowing the inyourface persona the band's adopted on World. Since their selftitled debut, the Futureheads have gone from crafting intricate, mathematical postpunk with a pop edge to crafting fullblown powerpop with a hint of Elvis Costello/Ric Ocasek geek chic. Missing here are most of the Wire and XTC signifiers and the ADD songwriting that fired off one robotic riff after another with Pentium processor precision, verse/chorus structure be damned. The sweeping power chords of songs like \"Think Tonight\" and the title track will betray nearly every preconception you've had of this band. Not only do these tracks stick to conventional song structures, they even go as far as to anticipate their massive singalong refrains with dramatic intros and prechoruses. I haven't checked, but it's likely many of these songs, especially the handful with avalanchestyle descending major scale riffs, synch up eerily well with Cheap Trick's \"Surrender\". Fortunately, just because the hooks are swollen doesn't mean they're not catchy as hell. While neither as frenetic as the group's debut or as stylistically curious as Tributes, World boasts smart pop sensibilities all the same. \"Broke Up the Time\" is an unashamed carousel ride around an ultrasunny riff, not any more guilty than a tongueincheek song like R.E.M.'s \"Stand\". \"Sale of the Century\" grinds down a herkyjerky Go4 groove until it's as palatable as a harmless Franz Ferdinand ditty, while standout track \"Radio Heart\" represents the best possible outcome for the band's new artistic direction. Pinching the meaty guitar slabs from 2006 single \"Skip to the End\", the track's skewed chord progression and galloping melody make for three minutes of near pop perfection, replete with a Pygmalionesque confluence of art and love, \"a girl with a radio heart.\" Hyde's lyrics are especially gripping considering how his band's toils somewhere between abstract, cerebral postpunk and mainstream rock, never quite mortgaging one for greater success in the other. The sad truth, though, is that the Futureheads were never a band that got by solely on hooks, but rather their unorthodox delivery of them. Aside from their endearing Sunderland accents, they've 86'd every ace previously kept up their sleeve. Without the quadapproved a cappella harmonies, explosive stopstart melodies, and edgeofseat rhythms, these guys can't distinguish themselves quite so clearly from the UK's postpunk hoi polloi anymore. Maybe it's just the subliminal suggestion of the group's moniker, or a revisionist nostalgia for their debut's slapintheface urgency, but World feels sadly complacent coming from a band that once wielded so much restless, forwardthinking innovation. Hopefully the plodding nature of this album means the band's simply stabilizing after some label turmoil, and not, as the weakest parts of World suggest, already running on empty. "}