{"label":" Rhythm of Life","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11329/homepage_large.11689420.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Paul Haig","title":"Go Out Tonight","text":" There are cult acts cool to so many they hardly qualify as cult, and then there are cult acts cool to so few they barely show up as a blip on the radar. It's in this latter category that you'd likely find Paul Haig, not that the former Josef K leader has been doing much about it. Like fellow Scottish postpunk stalwarts Orange Juice, Josef K burned bright but briefly, and unlike former Orange Juice frontman Edwyn Collins, Haig has had a mostly overlooked solo career much of it spent shifting his attention from strummy guitars to slick dance pop. But frustrated that his commercial aspirations never quite bore fruit, Haig more or less fell from view, his erratic back catalog in and out of print save for Josef K's brilliant output. Don't call it a comeback, but, well, the Paul Haig some know and love has returned. A recent Scottish show marked Haig's first live set in almost 20 years, and by all accounts the music leaned heavy on the guitar. Not that Go Out Tonight is any less of a dance record than some of its predecessors, but it takes only a few seconds into opener \"Trouble Maker\" before Haig's trademark angular and funky guitar shards enter the fray. If the music sounds more like midperiod New Order or even lateera Wire than prime Josef K, Haig at least seems interested in reengaging with his roots. Songs like \"Stay Mine\" and the closing gem \"Gone in a Moment\" are equally indebted to early 1980s UK indie, though the bulk of Go Out Tonight is more amorphous in its meeting of synthpop and rock. It's in this inbetween place where you'll find tender ballads like \"Believe\", buoyed by acoustic guitar and some old school programming or the more propulsive raveups \"Shut Down\" and \"Data Retro\".  Then again, it's hard to tell if the likes of \"Hippy Dippy Pharmaceutically Trippy\" is terrible or tolerable, and \"Fantasize\" and \"Acidic Snowdrop\" both feel at least a couple of decades of dance music off. Indeed, as pop goes, Go Out Tonight teeters on the edge of piffle, and rarely comes close to brilliant. Still, you can't begrudge Haig's belated if ultimately halfhearted attempts to seize the spotlights. Maybe he's a star in his own mind, if not in the real world, but the fact that he's at least welcoming others to his own little modest party is at least some compensation for all those years in the wilderness, no doubt spent doggedly looking for the perfect beat. "}