{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11325/homepage_large.4c3911f5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Shearwater","title":"Rook","text":"  Since last year's partially rerecorded and rereleased Palo Santo, Shearwater have gone out of their way to assert themselves as more than just an Okkervil River side project or one man's solo recordings, but a living, breathing full band. Rook, however, is their first albumlength test, one that reaches deeper into their influences and flexes muscles no one knew they had. Singer and principal songwriter Jonathan Meiburg's voice is just one instrument among many that color these ten tracks, which, in one way, is disappointing, as Meiburg is a stunningly expressive singer who could easily carry a record by himself (see: either edition of Palo Santo). Regardless, they're blessed with engineers who sweat and toil over every incidental noise, guests on everything from clarinet to harp, and a drummer named fucking Thor all of whom assert themselves on Rook. This is good news for any listener, but perhaps especially for those who favor the more sensitive and baroque strains of indie rock, yet are tired of hearing it soundtrack every stray minute of public radio or primetime TV: Shearwater give \"pretty\" indie a good name. From its hushed start to the crunch and swing of its chorus, \"On the Death of the Waters\" is a dramatic opener that announces how much clatter Shearwater 2.0 can make. First single \"Rooks\" is far more ordered and composed, but the attention paid to its craft is discernible, from Meiburg's more controlled vocal performance to the nimble guitar plucking and insistent halfnote throb of bass. \"Leviathan, Bound\" is the first hint at how far the band has stretched its palette, incorporating plenty of strings, glockenspiel, and glassy, mysterious percussion, with Meiburg finally letting out a more immediate howl as the song's simple melody gathers steam. Thor Harris' contributions to the record on percussion are more subtle than his name would imply, but his performances always elevate the song, whether it's the buttonedup accompaniment of \"Rooks\" to the determined gallop of \"Home Life\", saving its seven woodwindandstringladen minutes from sagging. While he serves at the anchor to some tracks, he adds the most vivid touch to the already dramatic bridge of \"Lost Boys\" with a formal military march during its bridge. A necessary jolt on a wellpaced album, Shearwater's attempt to let their collective hair down on the guitardriven \"Century Eyes\" comes off as forced next to all these cautious and mannered arrangements. They've lost no momentum, however, when they reach the steady rumble of \"The Snow Leopard\", which comes later on the record. It begins with conspicuous unaccompanied piano chords before slow, elemental drums and low single notes of guitar trudge forward, driving the song with the same woozy melodic force of previous Shearwater highlights like \"White Waves\". The influence of Talk Talk's later records is even more apparent here than on their earlier work, notably in Meiburg's voice as he leans more on his falsetto and exercises restraint. It's also in the instrumentation, which tends towards the drifting and heavily atmospheric. Meiburg's more than capable of hanging with Mark Hollis vocally, and this approach drives the band to considerably expand its sound. Shearwater have not only broken new ground for themselves, but added a welcome sense of variety from track to track on Rook, all in a concise 35 minutes that feels more like a double album in scope.  Hollis acolytes or not, these are hardly songsketches; all of them are careful compositions adding new instruments, moods, and sounds around the anchor of Meiburg's voice. The edges of these otherwise lulling, hypnotic songs hint at danger and chaos, but only the brief feedback excursion of \"South Col\" pokes a hole in the album's fabric and hints at what more avantgarde threads the band might be capable of following. As impressive and uniformly gorgeous a record as Rook is, the band's best work is likely still to come.  "}