{"label":" Black Dirt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11332/homepage_large.5d1fc81c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"D. Charles Speer and the Helix","title":"After Hours","text":" After Hours rolls in, altcountry flags flying: opener \"Fossilized\" boasts some twochord strum and pick, a ruttedroad rhythm, honkytonk ivories, even the thick thud of cowbell. And in his lugubrious baritone, Dave Shuford the man behind the D. Charles Speer curtain lays out a litany of boilerplate woes: broken relationship, stalled career, the general suckiness of growing older and an inch closer to feeling obsolete. From a sixBudstothewind perspective, he tells a woman who used to come to his shows but doesn't anymore: \"These days I see you'd rather be set on fire/ Than to be a part of the attending choir/ But I don't really mind\". These genre markers, however, are posted on what turns out to be a garden path. Two verses in, guitars whinny, drums stumble, and amps froth at the mouth, as \"Fossilized\" spasms seizurestyle, and Shuford and backing band the Helix collectively lose their shit in a brief psychedelic breakdown. Limning the country/psych membrane isn't a particularly novel strategy, of course. From the crosspollinating Byrds, Creedence Clearwater Revival, and adjacent artistic circles of the 1960s and 70s, to the cowpunk and psychobilly scenes of the 80s and 90s, to today's robust indiecountry landscape, the curious crossroads of backwoods and inner eye always seems to draw its share of pilgrims. Many of the hybrid's recent strains gothic Americana, in particular offer willfully weird, selfconscious genrebending performances that verge on camp. But on their second record after 2007's more folkidentified Some Forgotten Country, Speer and the Helix take a page from the past and play it straight up. Kind of. After Hours' bounty of drinking songs for downandouters \"Drink Up and Go Home\", the title track, and the band's cover of Gary Stewart's desolate \"Single Again\" proclaims its genuine, ironyfree affection for twang and scant patience for artifice. When damp creeps through After Hours' floorboards and stuff on the walls slips askew, they come off as reasonably organic developments. The droningveeringintoabstract \"Sit Right There\" imagines the Greek bouzoukis as a historically accurate fixture of the Appalachian folk tradition. \"Canaanite Builder\" is convincingly fireandbrimstone, as Shuford drawls jumbled Old Testament verse and draws vivid grotesquerie (shrunken heads, severed feet) to menacing, heavybottomed grooves. \"Past or Beyond\" is a schizophrenic style parade of whiplashed time signature shifts that hints at band members' avantgarde backstories in taxonomizingresistant acts No Neck Blues Band and Sunburned Hand of the Man.  But even when it shares more with No Wave than No Depression, After Hours makes you think that maybe the odd stuff was buried in the ancient songs all along. And here's where the \"old, weird America\" is typically invoked. Nine times out of 10, the phrase Greil Marcus made famous is utterly inapplicable. However, D. Charles Speer's hiddeninplainsight aesthetic, its facility for making the familiar strange (and deserving of closer scrutiny) is exactly what Marcus was on about when he pointed in wonder at \"the mystical body of the republic, a kind of public secret...a declaration of a weird but clearly recognizable America within the America of the exercise of institutional majoritarian power.\" So shine a light, lift a rock: this weird secret deserves to be known.    "}