{"label":" Rap-A-Lot / Asylum","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/11326/homepage_large.9df99c40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Bun B","title":"II Trill","text":"  Bun B is a solo artist not by choice but by necessity. After spending a decade and a half in the legendary Texas rap duo UGK, Bun found himself all alone in 2002, when Pimp C, his partner, went to prison on a paroleviolation charge. With Pimp gone, Bun hit the guest appearance circuit hard and eventually released Trill, his decentenough 2005 solo debut. At the tail end of 2005, Pimp came home, and the reunited duo crafted the triumphant double album Underground Kingz. One of the few truly feelgood comeback stories in rap was cut short this past December when Pimp died from complications of sleep apnea. A few months later, Bun returns to the solo slog. If nothing else, II Trill makes for a great story of personal resilience. Bun B is one of the South's great rap voices: He has a gravelly depthcharge snarl that belies a rapidfire bouncerap delivery and always finds a way to effortlessly blend with even the most complicated drum patterns. But solo Bun will never work anywhere near as well as UGK did. In UGK, Pimp's nasal libertine honk played counterpoint to Bun's authoritative rumble, and Pimp's crushingly humid countryfunk beats gave Bun's voice focus and direction. And Pimp or no Pimp, the 2008 Bun is nowhere near as ecstatically worddrunk as he once was; no line on II Trill rivals this astoundingly awesome boast from 2001's \"Wood Wheel\": \"Smoking on bionic bubonic chronic, it's so ironic/ Sipping gin and tonic, supersonic like Johnny Mnemonic.\" The Bun we hear on II Trill is weirdly workmanlike, a technical beast without a whole lot to say beyond obligatory lines about his realness. Throughout II Trill, Bun largely ignores the tragic context surrounding the album, preferring instead to lock into his timetested lyrical tropes; the small army of guestrappers on the album mentions Pimp more often than Bun does. Along with the bootyclap clubtrack \"Pop It 4 Pimp\", the only Pimp C eulogy here is \"Angel in the Sky\", a toothless rap&b lament. Back on the first Trill, Bun spent six minutes on \"The Story\" directly and candidly detailing UGK's history over a hard beat without letting a chorus interrupt him. Touching as it might be, \"Angel in the Sky\" has none of that scope or specificity. Instead, Bun sounds like he's trying to cope with loss by getting back to business as usual, an understandable response but not one that makes for a terribly compelling endtoend listen. And yet II Trill is still a stronger album than its predecessor, largely because its producers keep things cohesive, doing their best to stay within Pimp's organicthump blueprint, and because the guest rappers here seem to realize they're on tracks with Bun B and that they have to step their shit up accordingly. On \"Damn I'm Cold\", which should've been the first single, Bun and Lil Wayne trade wicked punchlines over Chops' swampy bluesguitar noodles and screaming organs. \"Swang on Em\" brings martial snares, horns, and a surprisingly slippery fakeSouthern Lupe Fiasco cameo. On \"Get Cha Issue\", Bun uses Bigg Tyme's grimy choppedup barrock track to momentarily depart from his standard blocktalk, kicking nebulously political endtimes proclamations (addressing elected leaders: \"Y'all some liars, stealers, philanderers and all/ Got senators sucking dick inside of bathroom stalls\"). But nothing sounds as great as \"Underground Thang\", where Pimp C's disembodied voice returns, bringing with it the group chemistry and the guttural asshole charisma missing elsewhere. With its nearendless runningtime and its occasional misguided bids for radioplay (the thoroughly meh Sean Kingstonassisted single \"That's Gangsta\" springs to mind), II Trill feels like a throwback to a time when record labels were actually willing to devote resources toward recording and promoting rap albums. As such, it never quite works as a cohesive statement. But anyone expecting a worldconquering classic like UGK's 1996 Ridin' Dirty is demanding too much. II Trill is a solid and occasionally great record, an album more directed toward carstereo utility than bedroom contemplation. At this point in his career, Bun's more than earned the right to crank out records like this whenever he wants.  "}