{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11338/homepage_large.1805c0b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Monotonix","title":"Body Language","text":" If there were ever a band that had trouble living up to its live show on record, it'd be Monotonix. While you can get the gist of their concert experience from breathless online reports and YouTube clips, suffice to say, if you don't want to be covered in more than a few bodily fluids, lift musicians and their equipment in the air with your hands as they play, see flames leap from cymbals (an old trick that's still pretty dangerous), and stare into the hoary pockmarked face of rock'n'roll itself, then whatever you do, don't go see Monotonix live. So when it comes to their records, short of the CD spitting on you the moment you crack open the case, it's gonna fall short. That said, the band's debut EP is an inspired slab of nofrills, nononsense guitar rock that stands in the shadow of vintage metal while stretching out for a few genuine surprises. For a band that names one of its songs \"No Metal\", Body Language sure has its share of palmmuted and bottomheavy riffs, charmingly overthetop vocals, and even ominous, maniacal laughter on \"Deadly Weapon\". Metal is definitely part of the record's appeal most especially for those singeing opening notes of \"Summers and Autumns\" but that's not where it ends. Monotonix certainly nods to a few hip hardrock influences, from Sabbath to ZZ Top to maybe even a little early Iron Maiden, but there's more to it than that. They're far more fluid than most twoman guitar/drums lineups, as guitarist Yonatan Gat slides in and out of solos without ever throwing the rhythm off the rails. There's serious synergy between him and drummer Ran Shimoni as the latter underlines every whim of the guitar on \"Summers and Autumns\" while and anchoring every stopondime turn, and maintains this grasp from the sleek and relatively straightforward riffery of \"Deadly Weapon\" to the gonuttery guitar of \"No Metal\". \"Body Language\" has the most headbanging rhythm and conspicuous guitar licks on the EP, but it also throws in a cascading piano riff over the song's tricky turnaround that goes a long way to color the track, and keeps the record itself from getting too homogeneous. The descending guitar line that follows is sweet and yearning enough to fit onto a damn Strokes record; It's a hell of a hodgepodge that makes its four minutes seem epic, and it all flows seamlessly. Singer Ami Shalev navigates every turn with an exaggerated croon that can taunt, plead, and terrify as the situation demands. The EP stands up as a whole, but it's these kids of details that bode well for future releases that could do more than lure listeners to the band's stage show. As it is, this is a promising start. "}