{"label":" Captain Trip","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11342/homepage_large.ac8ae805.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Richard Pinhas","title":"Single Collection 1972-1980","text":"  French rock and pop, when not being dismissed outright, are often discussed only in terms of Englishlanguage antecedents. Johnny Hallyday brings to mind Elvis, for example, and the chameleonic, hedonistic Serge Gainsbourg is sometimes compared to David Bowie the latter despite being a predecessor. Even in the French experimental and electronic communities, this tendency has reduced France's historical context. Magma is often filed away from its country in the auspices of the krautrock section, Parisian synthpunk groups like Metal Urbain are often viewed as a dark answer to you guessed it punk, and progressive and electronic composers like Richard Pinhas languish in the shadows of Manuel Göttsching, Klaus Schulze, and Conrad Schnitzler. But Pinhas, whose Single Collection 19721980 has recently been issued by Japan's Captain Trip label, has left just as long a legacy as any of his German contemporaries. This CD compiles a number of Pinhas's early 7\" singles, all released before the de facto beginning of his solo career, the 1980 masterpiece Iceland. Even at his best, Pinhas also isn't above being directly influenced by his forebears. Alongside his solo work, the disc also chronicles Pinhas's work in the witty bluesbased psychrock outfit Schizo, as well as his Berlin Schoolinfluenced sequencer work with Heldon and his further experimentations in that scene as THX. Pinhas exhibited a fluidity that moved in the flowing undercurrent of technology in the mid1970s, adopting the Moog and later sequencer sounds of his contemporaries with a decidedly direct approach to melody. These singles show Pinhas never shying away from synthesized or guitarbased leads at the outset, spurning the patient, sometimes halfhour long approaches adopted by Schulze and others in the Berlin camp. Even \"BaaderMeinhof Blues\", an eightminute Heldon tune that owes a lot to Tangerine Dream's Rubycon and Phaedra, wastes little time in developing a bass synthesizer progression, and then an oblique distorted guitar lead. Pinhas' solo work is some of the most arresting on the compilation. \"West Side\", one of the few vocal pieces outside of the Schizo singles, strikingly combines his dense electronic pulse with the anthemic noise of the emerging new wave. \"Beautiful May\" also hints at his increasing use of melodic synthesizers such as those on Brian Eno's Another Green World and his future use of tapedelayed guitar, a la Robert Fripp. Unfortunately, the Fripp & Eno comparison might be the most troubling of all that can be drawn with Richard Pinhas, especially considering that his later works like 1996's De l'Un et du Multiple (also recently reissued on Captain Trip) rely on delay systems similar to Frippertronics. But as both that record and Single show, Pinhas composes with the intent of translating the sometimes obscure lexicon of technology with the wit and honesty he's carried since his absurdist Schizo days. Maybe the best defense for Pinhas hell, for all alleged French imitators is not that he took from those who came before him, it's that he took what came before him and made some damned sense out of it.  "}