{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11353/homepage_large.699547a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Mike Patton","title":"A Perfect Place OST","text":" So many of Mike Patton's projects have been conceptual in nature that context is key to their enjoyment. Factor in that he's a prolific bugger appearing in any number of bands, combos, and permutations, playing any number of styles with any degree of commercial or artistic aspirations and that's a whole lot of context bogging down his constantly expanding discography. A Perfect Place, for example, is presented as the original motion picture soundtrack to the film of the same name. The art is laid out like a lost Italian thriller, replete with dramatic stills bathed in red. And if the soundtrack weren't packaged with a copy of the film itself, one would be forgiven for presuming the music provided only the theoretical score to a movie that existed only in Patton's mind. The film (written and directed by one Derrick Scocchera, cofounder of Fantoma Films, who last year released a couple of volumes of Kenneth Anger works) is a droll, fitfully funny hardboiled noir/black comedy hybrid, shot in 'Scope and presented it black and white. It also runs just a short 25 minutes. Patton's released score, on the other hand, runs ten minutes over that, which may show where the priorities lie. It's a Patton soundtrack with a bonus DVD, not the other way around. Patton, of course, is a huge film score buff. His band Fantomas pays tribute to the greats (by way of chamber metal), and his Ipecac label released a useful sampler of less than obvious Ennio Morricone music. Predictably, Morricone looms large over much the score, as does the influence of someone like Henry Mancini in Latin jazz/tiki mode, and if the music plays a subtle role in A Perfect Place, Scocchera constantly calls attention to it in the most conspicuous of ways, primarily through its characters fiddling with radios.  \"What is that?\" asks one guy as the other scans the dial of a car radio.  \"I don't know,\" the other guys responds. \"I've never heard it before. Should I change it?\"  \"Eh, keep it on,\" says the first guy. \"I kind of like it.\"  Subtle the diegetic nod is not. Fortunately, Patton's score isn't nearly as in your face. That cue in question, \"A Perfect Place\", features twang guitar, whistling, and the occasional synth squelch, and sounds right out of the world of Il Maestro. The two cues called \"Car Radio\" are basically just static filled runs across the fuzzy dial, pausing briefly on a number of diverse and strange snippets, while manic percussion occasionally gives a jazzy edge to some of the other cues. The lounge rock of \"A Perfect Twist\" features Patton on vocals, but most of the remaining score veers away from pop and plops instead into the infinitely deep pool of pop culture and kitsch.  Even more than Morricone, Patton mentor John Zorn and his own eclectic, semiexperimental soundtracks inform Patton's explorations. Zorn, of course, has released several compilations of Filmworks, collections of music written for films both released and unreleased, obscure and even more obscure. Listening to Patton's bits and pieces, most of which don't hit the threeminute mark, it's easy to imagine him following suit. Surely the guy must have hours of this stuff stowed away. All he needs now, with A Perfect Place as a sort of selfcontained calling card, is a few dozen filmmakers giving him a ring to justify unleashing it all.  "}