{"label":" Modular","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11360/homepage_large.6cab837e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"The Presets","title":"Apocalypso","text":"  Ignore that score, kind of! You are reading a rave, the only tireslashing stipulation being that this duo can only achieve so much subglory, even at their finest! I actually like the great cynical joke that the Presets went to conservatory but anticompositionally named their band after authorless automation. Seriously, hating on the Presets is like hating on Cheetos. You know damn well what you're getting, that the product leaves fingerstains, and that it is not \"good,\" but can still be a tad awesome, occasionally. Having a Presets jam stuck in your head, though, is akin to holding a crinkly orange bag of that aforementioned snack up to your maw for a slidegorge and getting a single errant Cheeto lodged somewhere in your overalls, or ski suit, or tight Modular tee, or whatever: It's sort of annoying but also sort of Aryantrash James Bond to keep it hidden somewhere in your getup, undetectable via naked eyes. Debut fulllength Beams committed the casual sin of many an electropop album it contained four hits and a bunch of filler tracks only distinguishable from fellow whoomwhoomwhoomers such as, say, Boys Noize by a giddy Reaganera gloss. The singles and their remixes created enough goodwill, though, that one didn't wholly disdain the Presets for surrounding the hits with all that parsleyhouse. (I'd go as far as to say that each iteration of \"Down Down Down\" is a calfcramping, forelockswinging, sweatdrinking banger.) This sophomore release, despite its titular breach of the moratorium on dreary, beendone apocalypse puns, is laudable for pretty much sustaining every cut's levels of quality, such as they are. Once again, vocalizer Julian Hamilton plays impressionist. Mostly gone now, though, are his ribald takes on PiL's John Lydon, Devo's Mark Mothersbaugh, and Matthew Dear. Apocalypso features blasé (and certainly intentional?) apings of the Faint's Todd Baechle/Fink, the B52s' Fred Schneider, and Happy Mondays' Shaun Ryder. The effect is: sass aplenty, as each song's verses are sneered with macho Billy Idol bombast, only to go high/falsetto on the chorus, and then refrain like the Cult's Ian Astbury moonlighting as a motivational speaker for real estate agents. Kim Moyes' programmed keys are hardly solely responsible for Apocalypso's being so much aural potpourri atop the toilets of dance clubs hosting 80s nights: You get dabs of swooning Moz, bootyrapcaliber lyrics about girls hungry for \"Tbone,\" triumphant elemental clichés straight outta Bon Jovi, and even hair metal's preoccupation with sterile priapic imagery and prowlerism (check the metal masks and crystal boners making up the artwork of this disc and recent singles). Even their embrace of being labeled \"gaybe\" seems to quaintly hearken back to my childhood of watching painted dudes with teased hair and lacy outfits all bothered on MTV.  Hamilton and Moyes' mutual derivativity eventually suggests hybrids of hybrids, like Klaxon Killers meets Duran Justice. Everything here goofily struts and snarkily pulses, and its crassness is the only tonal \"advance\" on display since, well, the proliferation of electroclash compilations at the dawn of this decade. \"My People\" and \"Talk Like That\" are the most punishing (in a good way) numbers, while the boring \"Together\" is apparently a study of how bpms affect sleep rhythms. \"Eucalyptus\" is the oddest effort, as it careens from threatening vamp to Erasure smooshiness interesting but ultimately abortive.  So this album is a seminar on how to score exactly par in this genre: Simplistic overdriven synth riffs, drained drummachinery, a rockist 'tude, intense vacillations from \"flowing\" to \"jilted,\" blurry buildups to stark breakdowns, choruses unmeant to penetrate conscious consciousness, sirens, laser sounds, consistent privileging of urbanity, etc. (\"This Boy's In Love\" is particularly rich, in that the romance doesn't get belted about as passionately as its context: \"Under the city lights!\") That even the \"human\" \"analog\" vox are constantly looped and stretched doesn't help give Apocalypso the antiseptic, Kubrickiansoundstage feel attained by the best digitalia. The fun herein notwithstanding, as you listen, try to not to place an eBay bid on a Fantom Fogger, think about how unvogue it was when Trans Am redid this stuff before everybody else (and got called Loverboy loyalists), and tag these tunes in your playlists as (At Least It's) Not the Bravery, or maybe just Huuuge In Sydney.  "}