{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/11377/homepage_large.c1a70df4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"The Herbaliser","title":"Same As It Never Was","text":" At what point does a hiphop producer decide to lean towards live instrumentation? Is it something that comes up after years of samplesearching, where months upon months' worth of listening hours and beat dismantling spur a fascination with the original soul or jazz product via reverseengineering osmosis? Or is it just a growing disenchantment with the idea of plugging away at ProTools? Whatever the motivation, Ninja Tune's longtime resident hiphop geeks Ollie Teeba and Jake Wherry better known as the Herbaliser took a gradual but noticeable shift into liveband dynamics over the course of their decadeandahalf career, solidifying their current incarnation of horndriven popfunk bombast on 2005's Take London and finding themselves right at the center of the nuSwingin' London retrosoul maelstrom that Mark Ronson and Amy Winehouse belatedly became the faces of. It's an interesting place for the Herbaliser to wind up, but it's also a perilous one: as one of the more straightforward and unassuming groups to come out of the otherwise avantblunted midlate 1990s Ninja Tune camp, their sense of populist feelgoodery only gets more lapelgrabbingly eagertoplease when you factor in blaring brass and Nixonage demikitsch. Like Take London, there's some points on their first postNinja Tune release, Same As It Never Was, that threaten to suffocate you in a chortling wave of selfaware schmaltz, like some kind of Mike Myers version of Lalo Schifrin or the John Barry Orchestra. Dopey genrefilmscore homages like the copshow litefunk clichés of \"Blackwater Drive\" or the bumbling Benny Hill mugging of \"Amores Bongo\" don't radiate much excitement or smarts  sure, they're kind of funnyhaha, but ultimately frivolous and cheesy enough to damage initial impressions of what would otherwise be a wellassembled work of inoffensively likeable popfunk revivalism. Fortunately, those moments are just speed bumps, and better failed levity than failed grandiosity anyways. When Jake, Ollie, and the Easy Access Orchestra horn section (Andrew Ross and Ralph Lamb) consolidate their efforts into less goofy turf, they come across like a solid set of compatriots to your typical Daptone Records band, sporting a chameleonic modularsoul versatility that doesn't strain too hard to fit into hiphop turf. Whenever they're playing behind a vocalist, which they do for the majority of the record, they stick to providing a solid backbone and let all the attention focus on whoever's got the mic. So you get Jean Grae, who goes back with the Herbaliser over a decade, fitting a novella's (or a screenplay's) worth of fraternal betrayal and truecrime intricacy inside \"Street Karma (A Cautionary Tale)\" and suddenly the copshow vibe that made \"Blackwater Drive\" come across sort of flippantly sounds a lot more intense this time around. And even if the epicWestern tone makes the bounce of \"Just Won't Stop\" sound a bit off, Yungun's sympathetic Luddite laments over YouTube culture and recordshop closings give it some gravity.  Then there's Jessica Darling, who appears on five of Same As It Never Was' twelve tracks and gives the album much of its character. A 22yearold Londoner who sings a bit like a Southern U.S. r&b vet in her late fifties, it's kind of a disconnect to hear her go all Jean Knight on some assorted Mssrs. Big Stuff in \"You're Not All That\" or paraphrasing Smokey Robinson's lyrics for \"Get Ready\" on \"Can't Help This Feeling\". But the displacement in era and culture and continent aren't really what makes her voice surprisingly appealing she just sounds comfortably fierce and highenergy, a belter who's a little too raspy and rough for your more polite coffeehouses (though closer \"Stranded on Earth\" proves she can work chillout duty just fine). Even as the postWinehouse fragmentation of nusoul drops artists into bleached pockets of mannered, bythenumbers nostalgia (have they greenlit The Commitments II yet?), Same As It Never Was at least risks something and when it's not tripping over its clownish gogo boots, it makes a goodenough case for going all the way live.  "}