{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/11380/homepage_large.b10fe42f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Wolf Parade","title":"At Mount Zoomer","text":" Any proper insomniac can recite the consequences of a few frantic, sheettwisting nights: lethargy gives way to elation, reason falters, your teeth start to throb, and a vague sense of uneasiness gradually mutates into weird, wildeyed paranoia. Wolf Parade doesn't seem like a band that routinely logs its eight hours: Apologies to the Queen Mary, the group's 2005 debut, was riddled with allusions to sleeplessness, and its followup, At Mount Zoomer, is no less restless it's a fraught, expansive ode to being way too awake. \"We're tired,\" vocalist/guitarist Dan Boeckner admits, voice defeated. \"We can't sleep.\" While prepping At Mount Zoomer for release, the band reportedly promised Sub Pop \"no singles,\" which no matter how attached you are to the notion of the LP as a singular document seems like a selfdefeating vow. Paradoxically, for a statement of cohesion (take these tracks together, or don't take them at all), At Mount Zoomer is inherently disjointed, very much the product of two distinct, if exceptional, songwriters. Unluckily for Wolf Parade, the success of Boeckner and cofrontman Spencer Krug's side ventures (Handsome Furs and Sunset Rubdown, respectively) means their stylistic tics are now public information, and, as effectively as these dudes coexist onstage, they're still singular creative forces. The band's resolve to enlarge and intensify itself At Mount Zoomer seems focused on skewing darker, on sounding nastier, more perilous, and less straightforward than its predecessor, with elaborate arrangements and, you know, no singles translates into a lot of proggy diddling (and, ironically, less theremin). The approach yields predictably mottled results: At Mount Zoomer is both captivating (\"Call It a Ritual\", \"Language City\", \"California Dreamer\") and a little bit exhausting.  Recorded in Petite Église, the Quebec church owned by Arcade Fire, and produced by drummer Arlen Thompson, At Mount Zoomer is free from the influence of Modest Mouse's Isaac Brock, who produced the bulk of Apologies. Lyrically, familiar themes abound: multiple allusions to funerals, cities, dreams, empty rooms, and things that mean nothing. Wolf Parade are uniquely skilled at skewering contemporary (see also: urban, digital, accelerated) culture, and these songs relay a sense of being stuck in the wrong spot at the wrong time it's a tense, tenuous place to live.  \"Soldier's Grin\" opens with punchy keyboard and guitar, before Boeckner steps up to outline the scene: \"In my head, there's a city at night,\" he sings, voice clear and desperate. Although the song's objectively optimistic, full of twittering synths and mewling guitars, it's also deeply anxious, and when Boeckner promises \"what you know can only mean one thing\" it seems pretty evident that that one thing's no good. \"Call It a Ritual\" is equally uneasy; Krug's quiet, opaque vocals are spectral and strange less piercing than Boeckner's, but way more atmospheric and the track descends into a dreamy, muddled haze that feels a little bit like sleepwalking. \"California Dreamer\", another Krugpenned cut, is epic in scope: Although it's only six minutes long, it's relentlessly squirmy, flitting from quiet, guitardriven dirge to fullband throwdown.  Whereas Apologies to the Queen Mary closed with an unimpeachable tract of songs, from \"Shine a Light\" on, At Mount Zoomer fizzles and sags after its sixth track the record's grueling backend culminates with the contentious, 11minute \"Kissing the Beehive\", a stubbornly unmelodic finale marked by a mush of throbbing guitars and histrionic vocals (ironically, it's the only track that Krug and Boeckner cowrote). At Mount Zoomer is fractured and spastic, and at times, the band's ambition eclipses its strengths. Still, there's something about Wolf Parade's fragility that's profoundly relatable, and the sense that the entire operation could fall apart at any second that we're all tottering on the brink of total dissolution is as thrilling as it terrifying. "}