{"label":" Team Love","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13567/homepage_large.dc17b8b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Tilly and the Wall","title":"O","text":" The cornerstone of the Team Love roster and its first signing, Omaha's Tilly and the Wall are like the aural equivalent of their label's logo a pastelhued cartoon of a bespectacled teenage girl wearing braids and pink headphones with a candycolored rainbow emanating from her mouth. Over the course of two albums, this unselfconsciously cute and relentlessly earnest quintet has emitted rainbows of their own, delivering exuberant, glittery folkpop that's bursting with childlike joy and a sincere appreciation for the sloppy, bighearted wonder of youth. They are a warmandfuzzy respite from an indie rock world that's overburdened with tooserious bands trying to make selfimportant \"art\" this is, after all, a group with a tapdancing percussionist though their whimsical songs are infused with raucous energy and real emotion. And while their third fulllength (called O for the shape of the frame that holds the nameless album's cover artwork) features their most mature songwriting yet, these Peter Pans are still committed to an innately innocent sound that's free of pretense and full of spontaneity and ingenuity. O expands upon Jamie Pressnall's arsenal of tapshoe percussion, embracing group stomping, cymbals, and live drums to fill out the rhythm section while exploring new ways to manipulate and record their triedandtrue tap sound. With this newfound rhythmic depth, the Tillys' five songwriters can take chances on a few harderedged tracks. On ode to schoolyard smacktalking \"Pot Kettle Black\", which was recorded in a local school's gym with a 10person stomp group, the band matches its marching beats with a tough electric guitar melody that struts and stops abruptly, overshadowing its usually lighthearted, buzzy synths. Singer Kianna Alarid, who has always used her girlishly feisty voice to a cheerleadery effect, unleashes her inner Karen O, wringing distortion from her mic with her acidic, kittenish tones to match the garagerock assault of the music. And \"Too Excited\", the album's other \"aggressive\" (by Tilly's tender standards) guitar gem, opens with Pressnall's extended tapping intro and evolves into snotty, defiant cacophony that includes a group cheer of a chorus and the dropping of multiple fbombs. But even on these tracks, amidst their rowdier rhythms and steelier guitars, the Tillys maintain the playful naïveté for which they are known.Despite the evolution of their sound, Tilly and the Wall haven't forgotten about what made them appealing in the first place: bright coed harmonies, rousing choruses, and their overall openhearted good nature. And so they lure you into this rich, multidimensional collection with opener \"Tall Tall Grass\", which wouldn't have sounded out of place on their debut. The soaring acoustic number starts out spare, but uses the dreamy interplay between Alarid and Neely Jenkins' sweetly sassy sopranos to take flight amidst a stately piano line and a surprisingly reverbheavy guitar solo. And elsewhere the band gives in to their penchant for big, singalong hooks and glorious, celebratory noise. Both \"Jumbler\", which is built on handclaps and offkilter piano melodies and is studded with horn slides, and the aptly named \"Cacophony\", which makes the most of the band's wealth of vocal talent by layering tangy threepart harmonies over Pressnall's galloping rhythms and some revival tambourines, will remind listeners why they fell in love with this charming band: Because Tilly and the Wall aren't jaded or studiously cool or blasé. Because they know it feels good to stomp your feet and scream at the top of your lungs. Because they haven’t lost their connection to the emotional freedom of childhood that moment in time when you feel the rawness of your emotions, but haven't learned to be ashamed of them yet. "}