{"label":" Mint","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13318/homepage_large.e48b97b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Neko Case","title":"The Virginian","text":" It's rare that any artist gets her studio discography reissued all at once, but such is the case with altcountry belter Neko Case. Mint Records is reissuing her debut, The Virginian, which it originally released in 1997; the Vancouverbased label also put out her early records with Maow as well as side projects the Corn Sisters (with Carolyn Mark) and, yes, the New Pornographers. In addition, U.S. label Anti is reissuing last year's Fox Confessor Brings the Flood, as well as two of her previous albums, 2000's Furnace Room Lullaby and 2002's Blacklisted, both of which were originally released by Bloodshot Records. Of the four albums, only Fox Confessor gets any bonus material a sampler disc with one new track and four old ones, which reinforce the retrospective aspect of this set. Neither Anti nor Mint is simply reselling Case's music; instead, in an unintended partnership, they're repackaging her as an established career artist, one whose previous efforts deserve your attention as well as your money.Generally considered the redheaded stepchild of Case's canon, The Virginian is an eclectic collection of original material and covers that hews closely to the altcountry model of the late 90s, with two countryswing numbers that haven't aged particularly well (\"Honkytonk Hiccups\" and \"Karoline\") and some sparsely arranged ballads that have (\"Jettison\" and the title track). Covering songs by Loretta Lynn and Ernest Tubb, Case takes vocal cues from Lynn Anderson, Kate Pierson, and all those punk singers she emulated in her previous punk bands. Her rollicking cover of the Everly Brothers' \"Bowling Green\" and her 10story take on Scott Walker's \"Duchess\" feature some of her highestflying vocals, the kind so bold and surefooted they sound almost too easy, like anyone can do it. Modest but punchy even ten years later, The Virginian retains much of its feisty charm, but Case's subsequent albums would abandon this joyful musical release for darker matters and lonelier sounds. In this sense, The Virginian is a useful complement to Anti's rereleases, because it shows not only how far Case has come in 10 years, but what was lost and what was gained along the way.Furnace Room Lullaby (which is, incidentally, the only Case album that hasn't been reviewed previously on this site) sounds weightier than its predecessor, each song touched by personal tragedy. \"Whip the Blankets\" and \"Mood to Burn Bridges\" are rare raveups that feature the roadtested Her Boyfriends and a fierily defiant Case, but as fast and as fun as these songs are, they're propelled by a peculiar desperation that streams through every song, even the breezy \"No Need to Cry\" and the Tacomaloyal \"Thrice All American\". This sense of unspecified loss culminates on side one with \"Twist the Knife\", which showcases Case's close dynamic with Her Boyfriends, and on side two with \"South Tacoma Way\", a tearjerker that eloquently evokes the aimlessness that follows deep grief. Case's startlingly soulful performance and the songs' lyrical specificity make Furnace Room Lullaby both a fiercely local album and her most satisyfing collection.If Furnace Room Lullaby sounds inspired by real heartbreak, then Blacklisted considers death as an abstract concept, a nocturnal entity that haunts interstates and plane crashes and demands moody music with few hooks. Dropping Her Boyfriends from the bill, Case wrote almost every track herself in fact, the only songs she doesn't get sole credit for are the two covers. This new development is important, as it signals a shift in her music from countrysoul numbers with concrete imagery and moreorless traditional structure to less defined songs with impressionistic lyrics and even bleaker themes. On \"Deep Red Bells\" and \"Lady Pilot\", Case intently fashions new mythologies from the Pacific Northwest soil, a fascinating project that serves these songs well. However, with Calexico (and some of her former Boyfriends) accompanying her with just the right amount of eeriness, Case's songs ramble repetitively or cut off abruptly. Blacklisted is unsettlingly openended in a way that demands multiple listens but lacks the payoff that Furnace Room Lullaby so easily achieves.Despite their notably different approaches to the same source material, Blacklisted and Furnace Room Lullaby seem intrinsically linked, right down to their covers depicting Case as a ravished victim of some unspoken violence (now rendered in digipak form instead of soyesterday jewel cases). Neither of these reissues contains bonus material of any kind, and although there's a wealth of obscure Case releases from which to draw such enticements (including her homerecorded Canadian Amp EP), there's something reassuring about their austerity. These albums will someday deserve deluxe, deeply researched, multidisc editions, but for now these reissues preserve the works in their original state, with no inferior tackons to diminish the impact of those final notes on those final songs.In this foursome of reissues, only Fox Confessor gets a bonus disc, which has five tracks but only one new song \"Behind the House\", which appeared in a different form on Live from Austin, TX earlier this year. Despite its classification as a demo, the song sounds wholly developed even at this reportedly early stage, with a onetwo drumbeat and tremolo guitar underscoring her reverbswathed vocals. \"Behind the House\" is a spiritual sister to \"Deep Red Bells\" and especially \"Star Witness\", a Fox Confessor standout whose fatalistic tone and lucid lyrics evoke carcrash death scenes like halfformed memories. There's an intriguing rusticgoth tone to Case's country, a murky twilight mood that draws from the soulfulness of Lullaby and the weirdness of Blacklisted and here is perfectly executed by her backing band, which includes the Sadies and Calexico. The album's sparkliest bauble, however, is Garth Hudson's piano, which curlicues throughout \"Margaret vs. Pauline\" and the rumbling gospel \"John Saw That Number\". Despite Case's fearless performances on \"Dirty Knife\" and \"Maybe Sparrow\", Fox Confessor often pours on the atmospherics too thick, giving it a truncated, unfinished feel too similar to Blacklisted. It is an album with more great moments than great songs, capping the first decade of a career that promises to have many more of both. "}