{"label":" AUM Fidelity","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10737/homepage_large.1df8ec41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"William ParkerÕs Raining on the Moon","title":"Corn Meal Dance","text":" William Parker is one of the most important and creatively vital figures in jazz today, an era when the popular perception is that jazz was something that happened in the past. The New Yorkbased bassist keeps finding new ways to move the form forward and rearrange his sound about the only restriction he places on himself is that the music must be played by people together in a room on acoustic instruments (some of his work for others doesn't follow this rule). This was a productive year for Parker: he published his first book, Who Owns Music?, and these two excellent albums find him in an exploratory mood, both musically and philosophically.Corn Meal Dance reconvenes the Raining on the Moon band he first worked with in 2002, and it's one of Parker's most immediately accessible works the openended improvisation that characterizes so much of his work has a place here, but the free elements are significantly reined in. This makes sense, given that Raining on the Moon is one of his few projects to feature vocals, and band largely follows the dexterous lead of Leena Conquest, who sings Parker's politically charged poetry with stirring conviction and soulful phrasing.He doesn't let her off easy, feeding her lines like, \"Along came Dr. Yesterday, three heads on two shoulders/ Not looking any older/ Kills everything he can see/ Calls himself the father of humanity,\" but she handles it and then some. Parker's muse on both this and his prior Raining on the Moon LP is drawn to war, sorrow, and the legacy of Civil Rights on \"Land Song\", a long meditation on the true nature of property ownership, he creates the character of a slave owner who claims the powers of a god and pointedly tells the narrator, in the person of Conquest, that she is only 3/5 of a man.The material doesn't come off as cerebral as it sounds when the band gets its hands on it. Parker rarely includes chordal instruments in his bands, but Eri Yamamoto's piano sounds fantastic in these thoughtful and sometimes gentle compositions. The title track in particular features one of the most beautiful themes he's ever written, played by trumpeter Lewis Barnes and alto saxophonist Rob Brown with muted lyricism, the piano gives it an even heavier contemplative feel. Yamamoto lays out more on the freer passages, such as the one that fills the middle of \"Soledad\", leaving Parker and the horns to duke it out without relying on the changes.Barnes and Brown are Parker regulars, and they're both on Alphaville Suite, an album whose title and material are inspired by JeanLuc Godard's dystopian 1965 science fiction film. The double quartet structure isn't a traditional jazz double quartet, with two matched bands going at it rather, the first quartet is a jazz band of Parker, Barnes, Brown and master drummer Hamid Drake, while the second quartet is a string quartet of violinist Mazz Swift, violist Jessica Pavone, and cellists Julia Kent and ShiauShu Yu. Conquest stops in to sing on the two \"Natasha's Theme\" tracks, but by and large this is a far more dissonant and texturally complex record than Corn Meal Dance.Parker has worked with strings in the past, and frequently plays his own bass with a bow, and here he imposes the same loose compositional structures on the strings as he does on the band. Apart from the thematic material, the strings roam freely, sparring with the trumpet and sax as Parker and Drake hold it down. Parker's compositional method is interesting rather than open with a distinct head and let the band members solo over choruses, he moves the band in and out of the themes, alternating them with widely varied passages of open group improvisation. There are moments of sharp dissonance and unconventional technique strings played on the frog or with the back of the bow, saxes overblown and honked, but these are balanced by passages of strong forward momentum and clarity.If you've been walking around thinking jazz is dead, these are the kinds of records that could change your mind in a hurry. Parker rarely fails to be interesting, but these albums have more potential than many of his other records to engage an audience that's not already hipdeep in modern improvisational music, while still appealing to his jazz base. "}