{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10815/homepage_large.05a01d07.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"...And All the Pieces Matter: Five Years of Music From The Wire","text":" In the past few months, it's been virtually impossible to open any massmarket magazine without seeing some scribe's rapturous doodles about \"The Wire\", HBO's Baltimore street opera, now revving up its fifth and final season. So allow Pitchfork to join the deafening hypetsunami: \"The Wire\" is the best thing to happen to television since the remote control; it weaves a dizzying multiplicity of storylines together, never letting its edgeofseat suspensefulness eclipse its allconsuming empathy, hardly ever presenting an altogether unsympathetic character on either side of the drug war or within the machinery of politics or education. It's a great show, and its greatness rarely, if ever, has anything to do with music. [Warning: Sone DVD viewers may find slight plot spoilers below.]That's by design. Creators David Simon and Ed Burns have opted to take a naturalistic approach to the show's soundtrack, and the only time you hear music is when it actually happens to be playing within the show, blaring over a bar's speakers or seeping from an open carwindow. And so the music playing during the show often has nothing to do with the action taking place: A detective tails a druglord while jamming the oldies radio, say, or an assassin receives his grim orders while cheesily euphoric clubrap bangs on the boombox behind him. And many of the show's most memorable musicrelated moments come from characters talking about music, not listening to it: Pragmatic kingpin Stringer Bell voices a commonly held Baltimore belief when he tells a D.C. hitman how much he hates gogo, gunman Chris Partlow hunts down interloping New York drugdealers by asking them trivia questions about Baltimore club.The show allows itself a few exceptions to its selfimposed restrictions. Every show starts with a version of Tom Waits' devilchasingme lament \"Way Down in the Hole\", a different take every season, and each season ends with a masterful montage set to a different song. And sometimes the show cheats a bit on those restrictions; when exgangster boxing coach Cutty goes for an electionday jog, his discman soundtrack, Curtis Mayfield's \"Move on Up\", suddenly becomes the soundtrack to a votingbooth montage. Sometimes it doesn't even have to cheat. One of my favorite scenes in the show's history is a barroom wake for a dead detective, where every cop in the room, black and white, drunkenly bellows along with the Pogues' \"The Body of an American\".Most of the great moments on ...And All the Pieces Matter, Nonesuch's new \"Wire\" soundtrack, come from the pavlovian joy that the show's fans already have. Solomon Burke's warmly elegiac cover of Van Morrison's \"Fast Train\", for instance, is great by any measure, but it gains added heft if you remember it as the song from the Season 3 montage, the one playing when Avon Barksdale turns around in his courthouse seat to see Marlo Stanfield, his blood rival, sitting behind him.The dialogue snippets from the show don't hurt either. But it's tough to recommend ...And All the Pieces Matter as a continuous piece of music for anyone who isn't already a devoted fan of the show. While something like Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction soundtrack works as a standalone object, all but a handful of the songs here depend heavily on the context of the show. The four versions of \"Way Down in the Hole\" included make for some serious repetitive overkill, and the politically charged backpackrap of the show's first season mix uneasily with the local Baltimore thugrap that the show's producers were making an effort to include by the fourth. And while it's great to have \"The Body of an American\" and all the montagesongs from the show's first season on CD, I'd have to imagine that anyone who cares about the show already had those songs downloaded months ago. The best reason to pony up money for ...And All the Pieces Matter is the packaging: A thick booklet full of photos from the show and insightful essays from Simon, novelist and show contributor George Pelecanos, and hiphop writer Jeff Chang.Most of the tracks on Beyond Hamsterdam: Baltimore Tracks from The Wire show up on ...And All the Pieces Matter, though many of them come in abridged form there. But Beyond Hamsterdam still makes for a more compelling endtoend listen than Pieces largely because it depends so little on the show for its context. During production of the show's fourth season, the show's creators noticed that \"The Wire\" had had a galvanizing effect on Baltimore's developing local rap scene; Darkroom Productions, an indielabel and production crew, had released a couple of mixtapes named after Hamsterdam, the drugdealing freezone from the show's third season, and virtually every local rap anthem was at least dropping the name of the show. And so Simon and Burns decided to repay the favor, including music from a whole lot of rappers and making a heartfelt show of local boosterism. So we have Beyond Hamsterdam, a compilation of local Baltimore rap from an honesttoGod major label. From anyone who's been paying attention to the scrappy local scene for the past few years, it's an inspiring development.Baltimore has never produced a major rapper, though a few, like Tupac and DMX, have roots in the city. Baltimore does have a distinct local sound, but it's not rap. It's club music, a frantic mutant strain of breakbeat house that developed in the city's black clubs for years before anyone outside the area code took notice. A couple of club tracks show up on Beyond Hamsterdam, and one of them, Rod Lee's urbanblues exhortation \"Dance My Pain Away\", bears the curious distinction of being the only Baltimore club track more fun to think about than it is to listen to. The collection is also bookended by a pair of nonrap songs: the seasonfour theme and jazz pianist Lafayette Gilchrist's terse but funky \"Assume the Position\". But the bulk of Hamsterdam showcases the city's rap scene the same way that, say, the Swisha House compilation The Day Hell Broke Loose 2 documented the rappers on Houston's north side. Baltimore sits right on the border between North and South, so most of the MCs included bring a curious combination of New York snarl and Southern bounce to their delivery. And the influence of Baltimore club makes itself felt in the preponderance of handclaps and tinny synths.But this is a scene still finding its voice, and some of the tracks here are flatout bad: The Get 'Em Mamis' \"When You See Us\" is amateurish girlrap, and Dirty Hartz' \"That's Da Sound\" obscures some hard, hungry rapping behind its unbelievably annoying hook. But most of the tracks here are hard and immediate, and it's interesting to see how many of the rappers echo the show's theme of systemic urban decay. Ogun's \"What You Know About Baltimore\" is a burntout ghetto lament, and Tyree Colion's \"Projects\" remembers the city's demolished developments with a curious mix of disenfranchised rage and happy nostalgia: \"This song going to the people in the hood/ On the worst side of things, but it's still all good.\" And the best song on the album, Diablo's \"Jail Flick\", turns the act of positing for jail photos into a dance: \"We don't rockaway, we don't vogue/ We from Baltimore, we just pose.\" There's a message there, but you have to pay attention to catch it. "}