{"label":" Cadenza","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13623/homepage_large.d3f6b135.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Cadenza Contemporary 01/Classics","text":" The Berlinbased label Cadenza, a luminary name in the minimal techno world, makes music for the patient. It's rare for their singles to run shorter than nine minutes. Their only guiding hand is the thunkthunkthunk of the bass drum techno's definition and essence. After that, though, Cadenza's tracks are definitively unruly: sound effects jut into the mix for a halfsecond and never come back; songs swell and deflate without ever erupting; synth patterns emerge, but fester, slipping out of synch for a bar or two, or suddenly sprouting a few extra notes. \"Minimal\" only seems to address their casual relationship with a sense of climax; everything else about the music is busy, funky, and disorienting. Even patterns in the tracks thick enough to hypnotize Reich and Reilly devotees wind up kinky and restless. Contemporary 01/Classics, a 2xCD compilation featuring Cadenza's first six singles and an hourlong mix of some of its recent output by label head Luciano, is like a musical cold war, where everything clashes but nothing ever explodes. Getting hung up on the tensions in Cadenza's music, though, is to miss its strongest suit: Its sense of space. Many dance records are slathered in reverb so vast the textures of the track vanish, or echoes so infinite that they flatten the sonic field more than deepen it. Cadenza tracks are sharp and discrete: Sounds ricochet like bullets in an airshaft or leap from the bass drum's bedrock on the spring of a quick echo. Signals rarely fade away; instead, they're abducted. If some dance music suggests the sky or the ocean, Cadenza tracks function like sonar in a living maze.Contemporary 01/Classics is also the label's first CD issue, so it's tempting to give it a free pass where it fails. The mix is more demonstrative of the label's sound than Luciano's abilities as a DJ, but I'd be remiss to not mention that in squeezing 10 tracks into 67 minutes, he doesn't give some of the songs room to work their full tantric weirdness. And by limiting the collection to the earliest and latest singles, some of Cadenza's best material gets lost: Loco Dice's Harissa, Ricardo Villalobos' Achso, and Luciano's own remix of Selif Keita's \"Yamoré\". But I'll leave hairsplitting to the handwringers. It's got Luciano's \"Bomberos\", his and Quenum's \"Orange Mistake\", and the queasy piano runs of NSI's \"Max Binski\" on its second disc; on the first, tracks like Alejandro Vivanco's \"Madre Tierra\" prove that the most innovative dance music last year wasn't by Justice or the Field, but the same stable of batty Europeans and South Americans who've been putting it out for the past four years. "}