{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10944/homepage_large.c856a87f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"M.A.N.D.Y.","title":"12 Great Remixes For 11 Great Artists 2001 - 2007","text":" \"Electrohouse,\" sceptics complained in a teacher's pet tone, \"is neither electro, nor house.\" True enough, and not just because crossbreeds rarely look just like their parents. The point of this ungainly tag was to say \"nottechno\": Electrohouse set itself up as both techno's opposite and its substitute, reversing the traditional combination of cold rhythms and warm melodies. If techno is typically restless and fidgety in spite of its four by four kickdrums, the \"house\" in electrohouse envisioned a flat landscape of sameness for the synth riffs to spitefully dance over.  In their own production work, Get Physical act M.A.N.D.Y.'s capacity to just float at a certain plateau of intensity usually paid enormous dividends. \"Our World (Our Music)\", a 2003 collaboration with the Sunsetpeople, is humbling in its sublime simplicity it's little more than minor key chords, insistent bass pulse, and a nourishing strings. \"Body Language\", the duo's official collaboration with Booka Shade and biggest hit, is a similarly perfect example of the virtue of restraint. Given its ubiquitous presence (now even underwriting a Will.I.Am single), the track remains surprising in its refusal to climax, simply coiling and uncoiling with a suave, poised air of unconcern. Very few moments on 12 Great Remixes for 11 Great Artists can rival this sense of perfection. The earliest remixes (for Sugababes, DJ Monique, and Röyksopp) come close at times, concocting a sugary, echostrewn and stadiumsized electrohouse sound well ahead of its time. By comparison, the more recent efforts can feel unnaturally stunted and held in check: You can spot the moments where production partners Booka Shade probably said, \"We can add strings and a big chord change here,\" and M.A.N.D.Y. responded with a \"No, let's cut back to a kickdrum and add some disconnected electronic squiggles and an inscrutable film sample instead.\"  Perhaps when Booka Shade emerged in their own right as German house's most anthemic duo, M.A.N.D.Y. felt pushed into turning their commitment to restraint into a hardliner stance, determined not to go for the peaktime jugular, tearjerker chord, or obvious hook not to be seduced into unabashed prettiness (they made an exception for their wonderfully soppy remix of Chelonis R. Jones' \"Le Bateau Ivre\", shamefully not included here). Of their recent remixes, only their ravedub take on Rockers HiFi's \"Push Push\", a mix of trembling, bouncing synth chords, is outright irresistible. The impeccable production ensures that these productions sound lovely throughout, but it doesn't always protect them from an air of pointlessness, especially when the duo approach remixes of good songs with the apparent intention of quarantining their hooks. Remixes for Röyksopp's \"49 Percent\", Lindstrøm's \"I Feel Space\", and Rex the Dog's \"Prototype\" all follow the same basic structure: 1) Spend several minutes wandering directionlessly within an atmospheric but Spartan house groove, 2) Effectively splice in a large chunk of the original song, sans climax, 3) Subside back into anorexic pulses, and 4) Fade out.  Perhaps there's a good reason for this: M.A.N.D.Y. are DJs first and foremost, and most of these tracks sound structured for long blends with other complementary grooves. The \"I Feel Space\" remix in particular sounds great in a club context, the preechoes of the original's anthemic italo march tickling at your brain as they ohsogradually coalesce into something recognizable. But there's a builtin lifespan for this \"slight return\" style of remix, even if you love the original songs to death. And I wonder at the sense of releasing an unmixed compilation of these tracks for the home listener, especially when M.A.N.D.Y.'s ethos is compared to a whole host of producers who used electrohouse's widescreen sensibility as a template for constructing remixes of extravagant architectural grandeur, rendering the original tracks irrelevant (see Tiefschwarz, Jacques Lu Cont, Ewan Pearson). What can be a liability in M.A.N.D.Y.'s production work is a strength in their DJ mixes: Their antilinear approach to track selection can make for subtle and hypnotic mixes of compelling laterality. The duo's opening contribution to Get Physical's Body Language series remains their highpoint: at first seeming almost aimless, its slow survey of the breadth of German house ultimately reveals itself as obsessively structured and surprisingly anthemic a friend described the mix as revealing \"hidden shallows\" over time. But while their last official DJ mix, 2006's At The Controls, seemed to want to cover every single possible reference point, Fabric 38 finds them unusually focused, carefully navigating the thin space between minimal house and techno (much has changed since the \"nottechno\" of five years ago).  In fact, many of the selections strongly reflect the legacy of Derrick May in particular, toning down the \"plip plop\" that made minimal vulnerable to ridicule, but remaining too fitful and fidgety and insectile to rest easily within the bracket of \"house.\" In most other senses, though, Fabric 38 sounds like the kind of mix that Loco Dice was making in 2005: melodic but dry, setting layers of percussion and clouds of echo over sandpaperrough textures. The set doesn't sound outofdate, but it sits at odds with the prevailing consensus that the \"new\" direction for German house and techno entails a reengagement with deep house's organicism. For its long but busy middle stretch in particular, the mix is almost defiantly uniform and machinic, light on charisma or memorable hooks, but obsessed with depth every track feels like staring into a bubbling swamp.  It may just be a personal bias that finds Fabric 38 more engaging at its most gentle and twinkly and, well, houselike, from the whimpering, descending chords of Crowdpleaser's remix of Quarion's \"Karasu\", to the interweaving layers of chimes on Lucio Aquilina's \"My Cube\". But it's also these moments (weighted towards the beginning and the end of the mix) that are the album's most diverse and expansive. The extravagant percussion of Guillame and the Couto Dumont's \"Mederico\" is the set's most exciting and memorable inclusion, not least because its captivating syncopation shines a light on M.A.N.D.Y.'s superlative mixing skills the dexterity of which can be obscured by the general succession of likeminded tracks.  If Fabric 38 and 12 Great Remixes for 11 Great Artists fall short of their aims for apparently opposite reasons (one too focused, the other not focused enough), the common thread for both is an unnecessary fear of obviousness. Yes, M.A.N.D.Y., subtlety is your thing, but when the strings break on \"Our World (Our Music)\", only a deadinside cynic would think \"how obvious...\" Anyone else would be too busy thinking \"how could anything possibly sound better?\" "}