{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1156/homepage_large.197291e9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Battletorn","title":"Villains/Reversed","text":" Abraham Lincoln's immortal Gettysburg Address is one of the shortest speeches in American history. At only 264 words, Lincoln delivered the inspiring oration in approximately six minutes, with phrases like \"of the people, by the people, and for the people\" leaving an indelible imprint on America. At 1:37, Battletorn's Villains/Reversed is a curt \"fuck you\" from the New York metal underground band and very vehemently not for the people. This nihilistic Brooklyn trio must enjoy irking people with the brevity thing (their shows notoriously last between five and 11 minutes), but how does one ignore the fact that the record's length carries a stronger statement than the music itself? I know, I know, Mike Patton's been pulling these hijinks with Fantômas too, but he's got cred and, well, everyone's just accepted that he's batshit insane at this point. And yes, this may be purported as a mere seveninch, but it feels like a teaser for their fulllength to be released later in the year. And not a very enticing one at that. Even if limited by the stingiest of word counts, I could allot each second of music a full word here. However, Battletorn's sound hardly warrants such finetooth combing. This is barebones metalcore copped from the mid80s NYC underground, sporting überobscure influences like Sin 34 and the Comes. Unfortunately, while the songs' BPM and volume are jacked, the ideas are pretty hohum. But hey, that's the danger of a guitar/drums dynamic most songs can't be propped up by palmmuting, jarring chromatics, and ubiquitous cymbal crashes alone. Don't get me wrong, the power chord progressions here aren't terrible, but a riff or two along with some more unpredictable percussion fills wouldn't hurt. Most intriguing on these two brief noise spasms is lead singer Beverly's grating howl. The distortion surrounding her vocals is more calculated than the average metal singer's fuzz and feedback, and her shrieks emit the Transylvanian creepiness of a female Hisham Baroocha. The catch? We're only offered a glimpse of the only truly captivating aspect of this band. If this little snippet's potential is in any way valid, then hopefully their next release will at least be long enough for people to listen to on the car ride to work. If not, they could always try commercial jingles. "}