{"label":" ","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12012/homepage_large.f386ced7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Devendra Banhart / Jana Hunter","title":"Devendra Banhart/Jana Hunter","text":" So constant has been Devendra Banhart's florid, wayfaring presence both within and without the still flourishing neofolk scene that it seems difficult to believe that it's been less than three years since his Oh Me Oh My... debut. He's made the most of these 30odd (sometimes extremely odd) intervening months: In addition to maintaining his nearcontinuous schedule of solo touring and recording, he's made cameo appearances with acts ranging from Vetiver to Antony and the Johnsons, and has unreluctantly emerged as the de facto ambassador for the freakfolk nation.In this latter role, he has been a valued and tireless champion of all things acoustic and enchanted. 2004's Banhartcurated Arthur magazine compilation Golden Apples of the Sun remains one of the scene's most defining documents, plus he deserves at least partial credit for helping to coax 60s folk legend Vashti Bunyan out of retirement, and later this year he'll help launch a new label, Gnomensong.Gnomensong's first release is to be Blank Unstaring Heirs of Doom, the first fulllength solo collection from Texasbased singersongwriter Jana Hunter, formerly of Matty & Mossy, whose \"Farm, CA\" was one of Golden Apples's dusky highlights. And now Banhart has provided Hunter's career yet another boost with the release of this vinylonly split LP. The album contains five songs from Devendra and five from Hunter, none of which, according to Troubleman Unlimited, are ever to be issued on CD. So while Banhart completists had best step lively, this weird little record sparkles with enough tiny moments of peculiar, glowing beauty that it should carry honest appeal for the rest of us as well.For his part, Banhart's contributions here should be considered as more of a sidebar to 2004's Nino Rojo than as a teaser for his forthcoming Cripple Crow. Of his five songs, three are alternate versions of Rojo tracks, and one is a live, intensely hippified fullband medley of Oh Me Oh My's \"Little Monkey\" and R. Kelly's \"Step In the Name of Love\", a match that unfortunately sounds nowhere near as strange as it looks on paper. Throughout these songs, Banhart displays a deft touch as both a singer and guitarist, treating the tracks as living, breathing entities as he fluidly bends notes and syllables in subtle new directions. And though the redundancy of many of these tracks may keep them from seeming truly essential, the lively, infectious joy of his performances ensures that none ever qualifies as a pure throwaway.Much more revelatory is Hunter's side of the coin. Despite what titles like \"That Dragon Is My Husband\" might lead you to believe, her approach lacks much of the oldtimey naturalism of such contemporaries as Joanna Newsom or Marissa Nadler. Instead Hunter utilizes a distinctly homegrown, lofi production style filled with grainy overdubbed vocals, guitar and handclaps that gives her songs a deceptively rich depth of field. \"True love is writ with a stick in the pavement,\" she sings on \"Black Haven\", a song that, as with her others here, owes as much to K Records' handknit, DIY aesthetic as to any crossgenerational folk traditions. With none of these tracks extending much beyond two minutes in length, Hunter's portion of this album provides just the briefest tantalizing glimpses of her talents, her songs brimming with the same sort of unique promise one might've detected on Banhart's own early demos just a few short years ago. "}