{"label":" Kitsuné","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/10915/homepage_large.254a0f3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Kitsuné BoomBox","text":" Given the preponderance of compilations beginning with the word \"Kitsuné\" over the past few years, it's remarkable that the French dance (not dance) music label is only now getting round to its first DJ mix ironically, now that the label is synonymous with \"blog house\", and all the stuttery oneoff exclusive remixes of thirdgrade indie rock anthems that term implies. On the other hand, for a genre so obsessed with the big, messy breakdown, it only makes sense to edit out the perfunctory intros and outros and get straight to the good stuff. Accordingly, Jerry Bouthier's BoomBox mix holds few real surprises, except perhaps in how well it demonstrates the values of the DJ mix format itself: This is by far the most fun fulllength the label have released in years, and the one that makes the best argument for the continued viability of rockflavored electrohouse as a going concern. Whereas recent Kitsuné compilations have suffered for their randomness, surgically attaching these tracks to one another can't help but positively emphasize the sheer breadth of the label's aesthetic range, especially when this diversity is united by an efficient bottomend, never for long losing sight of the throb of the bass drum and the ceaseless whispers of the hihats. While BoomBox captures the label's sound at its most clubfriendly, I suspect that Kitsuné's ideal medium is neither the club sound system nor (critics' assertions to the contrary notwithstanding) computer speakers, but the car radio. And the notion of this music as one big rowdy radio show places most of its qualities in their most favorable light: The amateurish lofi sonics, the regard for proper songs, the taste for sudden, lurching stylistic sideways swerves, the privileging of headbanging impact over hiptugging grooves, and the at times overwhelming swelter of sounds and effects.  I like to think this (mostly) new generation of artists have inherited or stolen this vibe from the rougher end of first wave French house, which in its helter skelter radio show form offered the ultimate in disorienting party music. This precarious lineage is more evident on BoomBox than I expected: Most prominently, Revolte's \"Weak Generation\" is the most thrilling piece of stupidfresh French house since I don't know what. Meanwhile the mix's shift from Simian Mobile Disco's wonky \"Love\" to Headman's hardriffing \"Catch Me (Dub)\" is precisely the sort of unexpected and thrilling transition that works better in your car than in the club. For much of the mix, the sharp synthesizer arpeggios peg proceedings closer to electrohouse orthodoxy, but with a general vibe of unpretentious cheesiness that reminds me positively of prime big beat and, more specifically, Moonbootica's DJ Sounds Good mix from a few years back perhaps the last time this kind of music sounded genuinely oblivious to the dictates of fashion. Guns'n'Bombs' remix of Chromeo's \"Fancy Footwork\" fits perfectly here, its sudden drum rolls and chiming cowbells and tranceinflected synths and hypeinducing sirens all deployed with a cheerful obviousness straight from \"Block Rockin' Beats\". The \"tracky\" vibe of BoomBox feels liberating in this sense: There's a mindless efficiency at work here that would probably be considered too straightforward and predictable for one of the label's Maison compilations. But if the Maison series could learn a lot from Bouthier's efforts, it's in no hurry to. With the exception of a few bizarre and occasionally brilliant curios (see the excellent old skool rave remix of M.I.A.'s \"XR2\") Volume 5 remains as committed to exploring wonky pop and rock as any of its predecessors. This isn't a barrier to greatness: The burbling, slightly skanking electropop of Fischerspooner's \"The Best Revenge\" demonstrates how well this approach can work, seamlessly triangulating \"Being Boiled\", \"Ghost Town\", and \"(Don't Fear) The Reaper\". It's also by far the most expansive and expensivesounding production on the disc. \"They belong to a different age\", you might say, but nevertheless the fact that such acts rarely abandon high production values and proper songwriting once they've tasted them should offer Kitsuné's endless ranks of messy young upstarts something to chew on. It's compositional effort rather than any specific sound that defines the compilation's several successes. Pin Me Down's by turns sneering and sighing \"Cryptic\" aims for a midpoint between the Bush Tetras and early Bananarama, and comes out sounding like an ace angry Girls Aloud single. Which should tell us two things: Firstly, that combining rock guitar and beatheavy electronic production in pop songs isn't so novel that these artists deserve a medal just for turning up, and, conversely, that this very combination can aspire to pop majesty when the participants try hard enough.  Too often, however, Kitsuné's artists seem scared of the kind of gleaming architectural dancepop perfection practiced by, say, Jacques lu Cont, preferring an aesthetic of deliberately wounded and mistakeriddled obscurantism. There's a difference, though, between deploying mistakes strategically and doing so indiscriminately. Van She's gloriously anthemic cutup of Feist's \"1, 2, 3, 4\" (a centerpiece on BoomBox) works as Rex the Dog's take on the Knife's \"Heartbeats\" did before it by stretching a compositionally tight and sincerely performed pop song to a confused and fractured breaking point. But too many whiny indiedance acts make this outcome their starting point, tenuously stringing together a succession of Bgrade song castoffs and hoping that throwing in a stuttery synthriff breakdown and buzzy kickdrum will retrospectively redeem their efforts. It doesn't, and gruesome songs like Does It Offend You, Yeah?'s \"Let's Make Out\" and Kid's \"I'll Never Know\" only succeed in making this particular stylistic niche sound like the worst of all possible worlds. "}