{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/11112/homepage_large.33eaa708.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Microkingdom's Pro Hour","title":"Wrenches: My Heart/Double Abacus","text":" Microkingdom is the Baltimorebased jazzspazz duo of Oxes guitarist Marc Miller and percussionist and Doctor of Composition Will Redman. With the help of likeminded Baltimore tinkerers, the duo frequently expands into Microkingdom's Pro Hour, improvising over Redman's patternshifting pieces. Pro Hour's debut, Wrenches: My Heart/Double Abacus, employees Baltimore improvisational mainstay John Dierker on saxophone and clarinet. In 20 swift minutes (unfortunately available only through a selfrelease of 300 aquamarine LPs), the trio capitalizes on Redman's tense writing and drumming, Miller's caustic guitar proclivities, and Dierker's improvisational fire. Wrenches: My Heart/Double Abacus is dynamic, challenging, confident, and preternaturally developed for such a humble beginning, the work of musicians questioning each other's habits so as to bend good ideas into great sounds. Count it: It's hard to imagine having more fun with some drums, a guitar, and some reeds. The compositional smarts are immediately apparent but just as quickly dismissed: All three musicians leap headlong into \"Double Abacus\", attacking a groove and mutating it. Redman, Dierker, and Miller shift a relatively simple time signature as though they're mapping Tony Williams' drumkitwhich warped rhythms as a force of habit to an instrumental trio. The saxophone leans forward, the guitar pulls backward, and the drums kick in the middle, looking for stability until it's apparent there will be none. Things appear to fall apart, all three instruments squiggling in celebration of liberation. But the rhythm presides even as everyone darts around it. As each musician moves back toward the middle, the piece collapses into silence. The saxophone again blasts its staccato theme, but the guitar and drums plow forward now, sideswiping order with chaos. The horn reciprocates, slinking with flagrant squawks and piercing sharp notes. The remaining five minutes are a set of duo and trio battles. You'll need to pick a team. Similarly, \"Wrenches: My Heart\" makes the expected feel unexpected by working through two distinct parts. Each half shocks itself and its listener with sudden jolts of tightly wound motion. You see them coming from a minute or so out, developing into perfectly sculpted tension. Nevertheless, when they happen, they're still exhilarating, railroading the given shape with outsider confidence: An electronic hum opens, an invitation to something eerie. Flints of guitar noise, circular sighs of a saxophone, and percussive layers teetering above silence accept. When they flash out, you'll jump: Drums, sax and guitar jerk into tight time and steadily peel from the center in wild Zshapes. The sax heaves ahead, but the drums jack behind in a loosely syncopated groove. The guitar skips between both paths, sliding into the beat before slashing right past it. Again, there's silence. The hum cedes to another flashshorter this time, with less rhythmic lockstep. The pieces peel apart. Dierker's saxophone deals in long, slow sighs countered by quick flirtations with melody. Miller's guitar bypasses notes for textures. Schizophrenia defines both the unit and the individual. Even Redman can't stand himself. He's heavy and lumbering with the kick drum but light, teasing, almost playful with the cymbal and snare. Everything drifts outward until Redman pulls back toward the middle, offering a rhythm with rests big enough for the guitar and the saxophone. But Miller and Dierker just circle the gaps, cutting between and around them as the rests get smaller and tighter. Tension builds. Another flash? Nope. Silence. Then, a voice: \"It fucking wrenches my heart, man.\" A fitting motto for such a breathless debut. "}