{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/863/homepage_large.16ef6475.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Boredoms","title":"Seadrum/House of Sun","text":" What happened to Boredoms? Where did they go? Five years ago, I was ready to trot off with them to Neptune, digging my arm into their furry, electric heels. That was space music, right? Wasn't that what they meant to do in the 70s before anyone had told them that you can be hyper and blissedout at the same time? It sure seemed like it. And then they just disappeared, only cropping up outside of Japan at sparsely planned eclectic music festivals (that were usually in Europe). In the interim, we got remix albums, some spare influence for neonowavers, and a whole lotta side projects. And I'm not even trying to overlook the side projects, because the last PsychoBaba album was a lot more interesting than th okay, I'll get there in a minute. The answer to Boredoms' whereabouts during the Pitchfork Ascendance was that they sort of broke up and went their own thousand separate ways. Guitarist Seiichi Yamamoto and bassist Hila either left or were fired from the band some time around the turn of this century. Give or take a year; everything's pretty sketchy. I've read interviews with Yamamoto where he talks about not wanting to keep himself restricted to just one band. I've read interviews with de facto leader Yamatsuka Eye where he talks about wanting to love the sun. Suffice to say, there was a communication breakdown. So, Boredoms became \"Vooredoms\", with Eye, longtime drummer Yoshimi PWe, and two more drummers ATR and EDa who'd come aboard when the band had originally gone psychedelic in the late90s. V8redoms have yet to release any music. They've played lots of shows over the past few years, and true to Eye's concept for the band as a human turntable, their music spins out the jammiest aspects of Boredoms' Vision Creation Newsun and stretches them to epic lengths. Live, its probably an amazing experience; exhausting, hedonistic. Speaking as someone with a fair amount of bootleg mp3s of these shows, I can say that the hourlong drumsandsynth template can be a bit trying as a sitdown listen. And now, out of the clear blue sky, we have Seadrum/House of Sun. It's credited to Boredoms, which makes me wonder if it's actually a new recording, or something leftover. It also comes with zero recording information, musical credits, or any liner notes whatsoever (even any of that cool Eye magicmarker art), in a blue plastic jewel case with cover art that looks stenciled. Wtf? Still, none of that would be so perplexing if the sounds contained inside packed that superBore punch. They don't. In fact, if I had to guess, the two tracks on this CD really were leftovers from after VCN. They sound like unedited, marathon jams; the kind that on previous records would have been condensed into concentrated, fiveminute minitrips, and used as part of some electric DJ mix. At best, this sounds like a stopgap. Now, that said, Seadrum/House of Sun features one of the coolest beginnings of any Boredoms album. Yoshimi introduces \"Seadrum\" with an unaccompanied vocal cadenza, sounding like an island witch serenading the dawn. As she sings her final note, a thick wave of drums, filled out with thunderous reverb like the roar of tidal waves, drowns her out. Pounding, primal percussion is Boredoms' specialty these days, and even when the piano (!) enters later, the vibe is ecstatic. The piano's blackkey glissandos turn trancerock into Asian rhapsody, and when combined with Yoshimi's reemergent vocals, give the band a tranquil, dreamy sound I've never heard from them before. And it just keeps on going. On and on. Sometimes the drums change their pattern for a few bars (my favorite is when they pull out the tablas and tuned percussion for futuristic tropical craziness), but in general, \"Seadrum\" coasts where it should surge. Of course, compared to the second track, it's practically explosive. \"House of Sun\" is a 24minute comedown drone. Sitars and guitars are lushly layered into a churning, monolithic mass of sound and like the preceding song, it goes on for way too long. Acid Mothers Temple's \"In D\" was similar, but Boredoms go for sensory overload rather than tranquil meditation; after 20 minutes, my ears are numb (and my brain has long since checked out). In theory, Boredoms furthering their psychedelic side should be fantastic, and I have to admit that for sheer orgasmic sprawl, few bands have much on them. However, at a point, sprawl becomes tedious and indulgent and I never thought I'd say that about Boredoms. "}