{"label":" WEA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/860/homepage_large.5acb12bd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Boredoms","title":"Onanie Bomb Meets the Sex Pistols","text":" On occasion, when asked, I've been known to tell people Boredoms are the best rock band ever. Despite opposing my sworn allegiances to Led Zeppelin and Funkadelic, the Osaka collective is one of the few to flirt with me at all points in its existence. After their turnofthecentury string of cosmic trance punk efforts, I had even less trouble convincing people these guys (and a gal) were great. However, their earliest releases still have yet to attract hordes; some fans think they're the real boreattraction, but they're often derailed as chaotic gooffests. As I see it, you need this Boredoms to really appreciate today's \"Vooredoms,\" to hear all the shit that went down before they found the sun. Better still, most of it fucking rocks. Isn't that a nice bonus?Boredoms actually began as a Yamatsuka Eye bedroomrecording project, represented on the long gone Anal by Anal EP, which was later appended to the band's first fulllength release outside of Japan, Onanie Bomb Meets the Sex Pistols (a variation on their Japanese debut, Osorezan No Stooges Kyo, or The Stooges' Craze in Osorezan). Eye had earned an infamous reputation in the mid80s as part of an extreme noise/nowave band called The Hanatarash, an outfit that fused performance art, posthardcore antipathy and selfdestruction into one violent, messy bolt of shock and awe. Hanatarash recordings could veer anywhere from pure noise to primitive synth squealing to frantic DJ cutups using Rush samples, and were not only a direct forecast of Boredoms, but of 90s \"Japanoise\" in general.After recording the \"anal trilogy\" on his own (consisting of \"Anal Eater\", \"God from Anal\" and \"Born to Anal\", appended to the end of Onanie Bomb), Eye formed his \"rock\" band Boredoms, with Hanatarash member Taketani on drums, guitarist Mara Tabata (later of Zeni Geva), and bassist Hosoi. Toyohito Yoshikawa soon replaced Taketani, and when Tabata quit, Eye asked his friend Seiichi Yamamoto to join. The two had briefly played in another band together, along with future Boredoms bassist Hira, though Yamamoto didn't initially think Eye would be a very compatible musical partner. Perhaps he was concerned about Eye's history of destroying pets and demolishing clubs during his Hanatarash days. Fittingly, this incarnation of the band recorded its first LP in a selfdescribed \"messy studio,\" preparing the grotesque, sprawling punk emissions of their early days.1988's Onanie Bomb Meets the Sex Pistols (\"onanie\" being Japanese slang for \"female masturbation\") was the overseas version of Boredoms' first album, featuring all of Osorezan No Stooges Kyo and Anal by Anal. Released on WEA in Japan and Reprise in the U.S., Onanie Bomb began the trend of Boredoms albums qualifying as the one of the strangest ever released on a major label. Much like Germany's Faust in the early 70s, Boredoms were thrust into an alternative rock spotlight despite playing \"music\" that, even by the band's appraisal (other members complained that Eye's final mix of their first record bore little resemblance to what they'd originally recorded), was hard to take.American experimentalists Sonic Youth and John Zorn were quick to champion the band, and former Bongwater/Butthole Surfers bassist Kramer would release 1989's Soul Discharge on his Shimmy Disc imprint. But wellknown fans by no means make Onanie Bomb more palatable: Exhibits include Eye's anal trilogy, with percussion supplied by a drumming instruction cassette, under which Eye screams, shrieks and squirts to his heart's content. \"Born to Anal\" features angular guitar work from former member Tabata, and comes out like a badly recorded DNA demo fronted by someone who's being tattooed on the forehead.Elsewhere, on \"Boredoms, Vs, SDI\", the group drops their patented sludgy, postStooges take on acidrock while Eye growls and screams to beat the band. Musically, Boredoms weren't then far from early Melvins, though their flare for grossing listeners out was without peer hang on for the last, semidigestible minute of \"Young Assouls\" at your peril. At that point, they might have been best summed up by their own titles, \"No Core Punk\" and \"Feedbackfuck\", though \"Lick'n Cock Boatpeople\" arguably gives the best idea of what Onanie Bomb is about.Later in 1988, Yoshimi PWe replaced Yoshikawa (who stayed on as covocalist) on drums, and would first appear on 1989's Soul Discharge and it's too bad that record wasn't included in this wave of reissues, because it's otherwise easiest available only as a single track containing its ten songs on Shimmy Disc's Soul Discharge/Early Boredoms release. It's certainly a better introduction to the first stage of Boredoms than Onanie Bomb, with better recording quality and a more palatable ratio of sortofsongstopurescatologicalmayhem. But don't worry, they weren't through.If the debut's exposure seemed disproportionately wide, 1993's Pop Tatari was a veritable \"hit.\" It garnered them enough publicity to land a spot on 1994's Lollapalooza festival on the main stage, no less! However, while their music had become a shade less disgusting since Onanie Bomb, it was hardly fit for the grunge generation. Pop Tatari reveled in cockrock moves and punk bravado. Boredoms had settled into a bizarre routine of shortattention span hardcore, acidic funk and cartoonish, performance artrap. Yamamoto breaks out his wahwah on the last track while Yoshimi and Yoshikawa get brutal; they rip Led Zeppelin's riffs and Can's song titles with \"Which DooYoo Like?\"; they seem incapable of playing the most basic hardcore riff on \"Hey Bore Hey\", yet all but invent MeltBanana in the process.Pop Tatari also makes the argument that Boredoms were one of the preeminent users (or abusers) of the studio as instrument. Their mixes are all over the places, with seemingly random spikes in volume or shifts in texture, yet rather than come out muddy, Pop Tatari seems almost psychedelic in its surreal squelching of disparate musical references, baroque in its thousands of blunt details. \"Bo Go\" is as much Captain Beefheart as it is the Red Hot Chili Peppers; \"Bore Now Bore\" stomps on Devo while employing Merzbowesque reverb and Yellow Magic Orchestra synthesizer. The epic \"Cory & the Mandara Suicide Pyramid Action or Gas Satori\" takes all comers with hazy dub reggae, and eventually blasts off into Godzilla explosions via huge, bottomheavy drums and screamverse that should have made 90s raprock obsolete before it started. A classic.It's not as though Boredoms had to further prove their insanity by this point, but to any doubters, 1994's hardasfuck Chocolate Synthesizer served notice that something was seriously wrong in Osaka. Cockrock was replaced by scraping feedback and distorted tribal jaunts; gone were the strange rap attempts, replaced by abrasive nowave textures and chanted monster vocals with trumpets singing battle cries. In a way, it was a precursor to the primal propulsion of their later records like Super Ae, but Boredoms were hardly interested in maintaining any kind of trance groove here. Chocolate Synthesizer was the final kissoff to their illustrious past, and they would never again be this unhinged, annoying or gloriously violent.\"Acid Police\" is a noisy anthem of super proportions. Beginning with Eye and Yoshikawa's immediately recognizable \"acid poleesay!!\" callandresponse vocal, and bringing in Yamamoto's medieval punk riff, the song is a call to arms for all the wild young freaks of the world, an invitation to riot in the streets and destroy anything in sight, all in the name of the fucking acid police. And the pound: Yoshimi's orchestra of drums could topple all of downtown Tokyo. They calm down for a spell on the nearambient \"Synthesizer Guidebook on Fire\", but burn their bridges again on \"Action Synthesizer Hero\", using sandpaper white noise as a torture device. \"Shock City\", on the other hand, tears apart any notions of a unified Borefront in the name of fractured noiserock and a reckless take on traditional Japanese folk music the grating feedback and electronic percussion are but cherries on top.But nothing lasts. Perhaps wanting to atone for their noise crimes, Boredoms crafted a different path in the latter half of the 90s, using krautrock and tropical ambience as blueprints for a calmer fury. Yet, their early records haven't lost the slightest edge for this change. This trio of reissues serves only to magnify the hold Boredoms have over modern noiserock, represented in bands like Wolf Eyes, Black Dice, Lightning Bolt and Sightings. Better still, most of it fucking rocks. And isn't that a nice bonus? "}