{"label":" Kora","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1159/homepage_large.6b9dba17.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Meredith Bragg and The Terminals","title":"The Departures EP","text":" Not surprisingly, that title is literal. The five songs on D.C.based Meredith Bragg and the Terminals' Departures EP all recount romantic breakups and partings, but Bragg is much less concerned with messy heartbreak and recrimination than with holding off the inevitable departure and the daunting logistics of finally moving on what to do, where to go, and how to get there. On \"Empty Beds\", the EP's lead track, he asks, \"What will I do for Christmas?\" as a means of evoking the banal complications of a broken relationship. \"Postcard From Boston\" presumably picks up some time later, as Bragg tries to make peace with an ex over the phone. He's not shooting for immediate emotional impact on any of these songs, but for a particular resonance that will build with each listen. This musical and emotional pragmatism keeps Bragg from sounding whiny, maudlin, or precious although he occasionally veers close to all three. He tends to be a little selfabsorbed, but such is the province of every white guy with an acoustic guitar. Bragg's songwriting has grown more acute since his debut, but more impressive is the development of his sound. His transparent emulation of Elliott Smith and Ben Gibbard on the group's 2005 debut, Volume 1, gave that album the feel of a rehearsal, and on Departures, which was recorded at famed Inner Ear Studios, that influence is definitely present. But Bragg relies on it much less, having apparently absorbed it and others into a more individual approach. As a result, Departures is a stronger, more assured statement, one that sounds much less imitative or tentative. Bragg's vocals, guitar playing, and songwriting remain squarely at the forefront, but the Terminals tease out the songs' moods expertly, creating and sustaining the EP's darkly intimate atmosphere. Elizabeth Olson's cello and Brian Minter's keyboards add gravity to the songs, and the two occasionally break out of their sideman roles: Olson slices her way through \"Let's Start Over\", neatly undercutting Bragg's softly assured melody with a more aggressive, almost percussive rhythm. And Jonathan Roth's perfectly mic'd drums drive \"Talk Me Down\" and \"Postcard from Boston\", allowing the songs to change form and tone mercurially. Departures ends with a cover of Songs:Ohia's \"Two Blue Lights\". It's not a very adventurous interpretation it doesn't take much to make a Jason Molina tune sound murky and mournful but it's still a fitting choice to end the EP, nicely echoing the theme of Bragg's songs while slyly realigning his stylistic roots, making Departures a bit of a departure itself.  "}