{"label":" Saddle Creek","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/950/homepage_large.6a206469.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Broken Spindles","title":"Fulfilled/Complete","text":" A comparative glance at the cover art for Faint bassist Joel Petersen's selftitled Broken Spindles debut and his new followup, Fulfilled/Complete, suggests two thematically linked works, a sequence telling a developing story. This is entirely apt, as Fulfilled/Complete feels incredibly like a sequel to its predecessor, and true to the conventions of a sequel, this one makes the core character of its antecedent bigger, flashier and more extravagant. The first Broken Spindles album grew out of wouldbe soundtrack work that Petersen was doing for a friend, but developed into a fullblown side project when that friend didn't use the music he'd made, and Omaha superproducer Mike Mogis joined him in the studio to help flesh out the material to album length. What followed was a casually constructed instrumental record that flirted with industrial textures, much like The Faint themselves, and also branched into more atmospheric piano and vibraphone explorations. On Fulfilled/Complete, Petersen adds vocals and a string quartet to that basic formula, and comes out with an album that splits its time rather awkwardly between buzzing, Faintish newwave darkness and drifting navel contemplation for the 4AD set. Petersen's vocals here generally operate in a staid robowhisper, and he leaves the real melodic heavy lifting to the piano and strings. The most startling success among the vocal tracks is the first of them, \"Fall In and Down On\", a skittering beast of a song with vocals that glide by almost unnoticed amidst the cloud of frantically arranged pizzicato strings and bass buzz that surround them, slapping the chintzy, jungly drum programming around like a spoiled child. This song and much of the rest of the album are infected with a gothic flair for ornate decoration and dark sentiment. Piano/string interludes like \"Practice, Practice, Preach\" and \"To Die, For Death\", have a chilly, distant sadness to them that, while often compelling, makes them feel misplaced next to driving, heavily programmed songs like \"Move Away\" and \"Italian Wardrobe\" (think This Mortal Coil meets Public Image Ltd). \"Events and Affairs\" is even more jarringly removed from the elegance that those instrumentals impart to the album, its cracked skin guitar and live drums forming a chassis that's about as quintessentially postpunk as you can get: Petersen's lyrics have him subscribing to the newspaper and buying a television to become more informed, and ultimately feeling let down by the narrow, misguided coverage they provide. As media indictments go, it's not exactly brimming with subtlety. Then again, I'm not sure subtlety is even in the vocabulary of The Faint, so maybe nuance is beside the point. Either way, Fulfilled/Complete succeeds on a number of levels Mogis' recording is clear as a bell, there are several fine songs, and the string arrangements are impressively detailed but doesn't quite live up to either portion of its title, its sequencing too disjointed to make for a truly cohesive statement. Still, at its best, the album is a pleasantly icy listen and a clearly aboveaverage sequel. "}