{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1160/homepage_large.6e52953a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Alan Braxe","title":"The Upper Cuts","text":" I'm not ashamed to admit I did a little dance when this turned up in the mail, not because I was holding it in my hands, but because I had no idea it was coming out in the first place. That's sort of how Alan Braxe operates, I guess. Despite making some of the most robust and radiant discohouse of the last decade Gallic or otherwise he's never seemed to be one for fanfare. In the insular world of French house, he's like a midaltitude cruiser to Daft Punk's twirling tandem airshow; dependable and always moving, but hardly the type to write his name in the sky. So, some background: Since debuting on Thomas Bangalter's seminal Roulé imprint in 1997, Braxe (real name: Alan Queme) has casually tossed off a series of 12s that hit in the same league as Daft Punk's concurrent singles. But with the possible exception of last year's cokey synth anthem \"Rubicon\" and the definite exception of his cosign on 1998's \"Music Sounds Better With You\", chances are you won't recognize anything on The Upper Cuts. Even those who do might be caught a bit off guard, because it's easy to lose sight of Braxe's considerable talent when he's only issuing one new thing every six months; this widescreen snapshot of his work makes it impossible to forget just how good he is at what he does. Although billed as the work of Alan Braxe & Friends so as to allow for the inclusion of occasional dropins like Daft Punk's Thomas Bangalter (with whom Braxe coproduced the aforementioned Stardust track), singer Benjamin Diamond (who sang on it), and littleknown French crooner Romuald Louverjon (who comprised the other half of a shortlived outfit called The Paradise), the creative partnership at the heart of The Upper Cuts is between Braxe and bassist Fred Falke. Together, the duo account for seven of the album's 12 tracks, and of those, only 2003's \"Love Lost\" is anything less than thrilling. The rest, from the glinting electro of \"Most Wanted\" to the staccato, fatbottomed basslines of \"Palladium\" to the defiantly unfashionable 80s guitar peel of \"Rubicon\", stack up onebyone to mount a pretty convincing case for Braxe as French house's most slepton producer. In addition to those seven cuts, the asthmatic coo of Paradise's deweyeyed \"In Love With You\" and the Stardust track (which, I'm happy to say, is still great as ever) The Upper Cuts contains one throwback, one remix, and one misstep. The throwback is Braxe's first ever release, 1997's \"Vertigo\", and although it's dwarfed by his later material, it makes sense here, especially as a curtain closer. The remix is his spangly 2002 disco edit of Shakedown's \"At Night\" which is every bit as strong as his original material. (Braxe's remixing chops don't get often their proper due check out his versions of Annie's \"Heartbeat\" and Death From Above 1979's \"Black History Month\" for more.) The misstep is, unfortunately, the compilation's only track from 2005, a Braxeproduced Long Beach gfunk pastiche for a sorta hiphop artist named Rec. It seems jokey and blunted and woefully out of sync with everything else here, and its presence makes the exclusion of \"Rubicon\" Bside \"Chrystal City\" even more confounding. By this point, though, I'm just tinkering, trying to find a way to make a V8 supercar run a hundredth of a second faster. When it comes down to it, The Upper Cuts is sleek and inspired and exhilarating, and after nearly a decade, it's nice to have all this stuff in one place. If it can manage to spark some sort of coming out party for Braxe and company over the coming months, even better, although frankly I'll be just as happy to settle for another \"Rubicon\" and a few more Annie remixes.  "}