{"label":" Monitor","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13310/homepage_large.1c05a22e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Battles","title":"EP C","text":" As pliable and starkly gorgeous as Ian Williams' guitar playing was with Don Caballero, he was never the group's driving force. Despite serving as lead guitarist for a band that came to typify a genre, Williams always played a somewhat diminished role, relegated to ancillary status by drummercumfrontman Damon Che's beguiling polyrhythms. I always wondered how Don Cab would fare with a less audacious (if not just lesser) drummer, and Battles' EP C and Tras, Fantasy offer the answer: Buoyed never obscured by John Stanier's competent but unspectacular timekeeping, Williams flourishes, spearheading a set of hardened guitar harmonies that summon the likes of Philip Glass and Unwound.EP C and Tras, Fantasy are the first in a succession of three EPs scheduled for release this year by Battles (a third sees issue in September), a collaboration between Williams and emergent avantjazz composer Tyondai Braxton. The guitarists' styles harmonize uncannily well, and EP C underscores their individual abilities while simultaneously siphoning them into an adherent combo. Somewhat protracted in the development of their central ideas, these consciously static songs, once unleashed, bottle enough tension to topple a house. Dreary, postmodern and monolithic throughout, EP C stays a rigid and weary course, unflinchingly dialedin to Stanier's cagey ostinatos and Williams' confrontational antimelodies. Stanier's utilitarian playing serves as sturdy accompaniment to Williams and Braxton's brittle fingering, but he knows how to pour it on in his minimalist way when it serves: \"Tras 2\" carries EP C out with an twominute drum \"solo,\" almost completely devoid of fills, during which Stanier verily delivers the disc's hardest groove. On opener \"B + T\", his drumming stays a rigid course, pounding a Spartan but insistent rhythm until a roaring triplet fill brings the song to an abrupt halt. Exceeding six minutes in length, it's an early potential breaking point, a sophisticated and confrontational slog that tries the listener's patience. And that's pretty much Battles in a nutshell. Williams & Co. aren't here to dick around; their shrill dynamics offer an immediate and unsettling clarion call. Chances are, if you're not feeling EP C from the getgo, you won't see it through to the next track, much less the fifth. Yet, in only 24 minutes, Battles turn in a holistic statement that fulfills its ambitions and leaves no end untied. If \"B + T\" is the heady statement of intent, \"UW\" is the cordial palette cleanser; for three expansive minutes, Battles' dense rhythmic onslaught is supplanted by an ambient synthscape. In contrast with the confrontational instrumentation of the opening track, \"UW\" is devoid of live acoustic performance, relying instead upon the noncommittal jabbering of synthesizers. Fortunately, the song neither wanders too far from the band's concise style, nor indulges too liberally in textural experimentation to be a detriment. From there, however, the poles posited on the opening two tracks coalesce into a more fullyformed representation of Battles' sound. \"Hi/Lo\" opens with a chiming, arrhythmic Rhodes riff before stiffening up to a sludgy bassanddrums vamp. Understated synths are slyly interwoven throughout, fleshing out the staid textures produced by the band's acoustic core. Elsewhere, \"Lpt2\" dabbles in triphopstyle beat manipulation, while closer \"Tras 2\" further deconstructs the band's sound, featuring curt start/stops and counterrhythms that channel Don Cab more directly than any other song here. As the disparate elements drop out, Stanier persists, carrying the groove for nearly two minutes before removing his syncopated snare cracks and leaving his kickdrum to erratically feel for the beat. The band wastes no time with intimations or foreshadowing on Tras, Fantasy, blending electronics into the acoustic mix from the outset. \"Tras\" conveniently encapsulates many of the themes sprinkled about on EP C, reining in Battles' penchant for oddtime syncopation, angular guitar harmonies, and electronic tinkering in a prompt 3\\xBD minute package. Though its central riff isn't as compelling as any of those on EP C, the song nevertheless underscores the musicians' intricate communication while highlighting their individual talents. \"Fantasy\", the album's Bside, turtleturns the directness of \"Tras\", eliminating all semblance of melody and replacing it with a harddriving house beat that meanders for 8+ minutes over several subtle variations. Brazen and uncompromising, the \"song\" is a real backbreaker, cryptically reflective of Battles' jarring compositional style and opaque aesthetic. If these records are a testament to Ian Williams' skill as a frontman, they also shed new light on the talent of Damon Che. While Battles play an intentionally much grimmer style of music than Don Cab, Che had an astounding knack for evincing vibrant textures from his sonorous kit, and as a result, lent color to Williams' playing. Here, Williams is bleaker, clearer and firmer, making Battles a much different but no less muscular beast than his former band. "}