{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2027/homepage_large.d6c1d311.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta, Brandon Stosuy & Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Radio Morocco","text":" SeattlebywayofArizona's Sun City Girls have been pissing off hardcore punk kids and confounding record collector scum since the early 1980s, mixing brilliant psychrock with noxious spoken word, cocktail jazz with tapecollage, spoton covers of Occidental pop with \"Radar Love\", and embracing more genres than Soulseek has discussion boards. With their new imprint, Sublime Frequencies, dedicated to documenting music accumulated on decades' worth of wandering travel to distant spots on the globe, they have realized their greatest ambition yet: creating a body of music and sound that will have lasting archival import, resonating especially in the alltoosheltered American world. That these releases also feature some of the most challenging, mysterious, ludicrous, brilliant music ever documented (even in comparison to the band's own oeuvre) is merely the cherry on top.The Sublime Frequencies series emerges at this juncture in our history when we are at odds with most of the world and callused to thirdworld cultures, and documents with CD and DVD such potential \"terroristharboring\" countries as Syria, Libya, and Palestine. However, unlike world music labels of the past Folkways, Ocora, Lyrichord, Nonesuch Explorer, etc. Sublime Frequencies never reveals its hand, and no explanatory notes or anthropological claptrap are offered. There are no maps or handles to grasp, and listener and writer alike have no choice but to be overwhelmed beyond comprehension and completely lost in these aural landscapes of field recordings, tape collages, interviews, and bazaarbought cassette compilations. May the reader be as mystified as we are...  * * *  Recovered notes and fragments from the failed expedition of Drs. Abe Tandy, Marnars Rodhick, and Yunstos Brando, University of Kali, as they traveled through the impenetrable nether regions of Syria, Morocco, Palestine, and Burma.Passing Through Palestine Habits become like loops. FM dialswitching sounds to me like a handpainted fan in the wind. The radio as airplane. The radio as time machine. One thousand years and one thousand miles traversed in a halfflick of the wrist. A fourperson drum circle chant dance perfected before the time of gunpowder grinds against plastic bedroom Casio. Sum divided by two equals radio's future. Private music is meaningless. Sounds only exist when shared.Jan. 21, 1984: Once we crossed the border, all trace of King Jacko disappeared from the shortwave spectrum. While his neutered grunts and groans once consoled me in this heathen land reminding me of all the pleasures of home and the rest of the civilized world enjoying his Thriller album here I am lost in the dense bazaars that instead blast idiotic hits of cheesy pop containing infantile lyrics that I've only been able to transcribe as: \"Hiyiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii EEEEah Heeeyiiiiiiiiii Meeedeeeahhh Hiyiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.\" I catch a snippet of Tears for Fears today (an aural oasis in the arid, empty sky). Now that's what I call music!Rare as it is to find time for cratedigging on these expeditions, in the desert I happen upon a box of extraordinary Canterbury prog at the flea bazaar. Right in the middle of a muddle of G/G gypsy records of an impenetrable script, I find a copy of Robert Wyatt's Rock Bottom. Upon opening what I anticipate will contain the record, I find the jacket instead swollen with sand.February 9th, 1988: Another station plays infomercials with a squat figure named ElAhbah Poppeil as flabbergasted host. There is a house band that includes eight belly dancers, but they just stand there as the lights dim for a piano recital. Sammy Davis Jr. strolls out towards a strategically placed camel with peanut butter smeared on his gums. They duet on \"The First Time Ever I Humped Your Face\" as the dancers slowly writhe to life.Strings that remind me of antiquarian bookshops. Musty. Celine Dion would sound better with a Raga beat. I know. I've heard it here.  * * *  Passing Through Syria Airwaves and interviews. We move through the streets. A steel door is pulled down in front of a closing storefront. Voices bounce from beneath the stone archway. The streets are dusty; the air is dry. A transistor radio sits in an open window, blaring sleigh bells, strings, anguished voices. What do you know? Belly dancers at the falafel place. Syrian rock? Puny digital drums clank along with the SynSonic technology, handclaps any stateside robot would call laughably fake. And then the voice: A high desert Tom Jones, bellowing what has to be a song of lust.The distortions of imperfect technology add layers to the sounds I pick up in the avenues. If you place aluminum foil on an antenna, the sounds are cleaner. If you halfsmash a boom box, it emits something closer to the truth: The bleed between tracks and people. I start a conversation: \"There are changes in Syria, of course. It is the way it must be. We have our culture. I lived five years in Holland: racist. We are the civilized world. White man = racist. America's only 200 years old. I laugh at it. America's the country where I don't want to live.\" Then some French. I'm hungry. Another conversation, a homosexual man mentions \"Say You'll Be There\". Certain passages like spider webs:\"Problem because of Islam. Sometimes I am afraid. Little. Meet in the cinema. No bars. In one/four million maybe 1,000 homosexuals. Very bad. 75. 15 normal. Puberty. Normal if boy or girl. Sperm. Here problem.\"Wife knows you're a homosexual?\"No, no secret. Woman jealous. Big, strong woman here. Problem. Problem. Big jealous. Divorce, goodbye.\"February 21, 1997: It ends with the groan of a camel. The silence between the notes is an anchor dropped all around the world. Is this Syria the one you see on the map? This is one man's Syria, I suppose, and like they used to say about radio, the pictures here are better.  * * *  Passing Through Morocco I follow Terry Riley for a few blocks, realizing later it's actually Paul Flaherty or La Monte Young or an anonymous street musician with a formidable beard. I forget to ask his name before my eyes wander to a produce stand with green bananas. Tiny red sticker announcing a familiar brand. I try to pick out a bassline or individual notes from a horn and realize they're actually creating a dust storm everything a palimpsest of rubble and dry, dry dirt.August 21, 1992: So what do we have, three dozen different stringed instruments? One hundred different kinds of drums? Or is it a single drum design with endless variations? No two songs share the same percussion sound. Some drums are cardboard; others, titanium. Enough variety to fill the Library of Congress with sample CDROMs.Hash Dream #14: Turbaned and robed bots are chasing after my Alfa Romeo Spider as I weave through tiny streets paved with cassingles. My sunglasses are but petroleum smeared across my face. I try to take them off by plucking my eyelashes with tweezers. The steering wheel becomes slick, and I crash into an ox. Even as I wake, I can remember the terrible sound of his chewing, amplified as it is by the karaoke mic.A man dressed like a demon insinuates himself into a group of masked dancers. He reminds me of a witch doctor. He spins erotically. I've started smoking. The tobacco mixes with the coffee and falafel in interesting ways. Only after meals. I don't want to pick anything up I can't drop off when I leave.  * * *  Passing Through Myanmar Since arriving I have tried absorbing without my eyes Burma is now a radio. Later, trying to refocus, nothing looks like I'd imagined. Turns out my ideas were cartoonishly bright, saturated, a circus framework draped over something much dustier and relaxed and ultimately more beautiful for it. Of course now I idealize condescendingly.Hash Dream #6: James Brown is in an eggplant tux, sweat cascading off him as he tells Bobby Byrd that he wants to \"get into it, you know, like a Sikh machine\". But as Byrd puts his parched lips to the shenai, Brown zaps him into a teeny mosquito. Brown allows the mosquito to buzz and suckle at his neck while he grunts and the band plays through their new mandibles.April 1, 1988: Here's an orchestra of spoons on mosaic tile. Some of the musicians wear green vests, which remind me of St. Patrick's Day. One time I couldn't get into DoJo's because an early morning reveler was passedout in front of the door. His friend kept repeating, \"I told him it wasn't worth it.\" Here, two men in matching white shirts and blue jeans dance along joyfully. My favorite, the more animate, is wearing a nametag and has something draped over his shoulders.A paralleluniverse Tammy Wynette stands by her man as he awaits execution. Explosions of unidentifiable wooden percussion why divide time into equal segments? Rainforest opera transformed beyond recognition by the power of the modulated frequency. Small antiroom, a man in a dashiki pecks at a piano that emits notes submerged in water and vinegar. A brocade blanket's been placed over the proceedings. Gold and red. Sounds like chopsticks with the door closed. Outside, the streets are filled with cheers. For what, I'm not sure. "}