{"label":" Collector's Choice","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2186/homepage_large.ab420cf2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"The dB's","title":"Stands for Decibels/Repercussion","text":" Every time a great pop band bombs, the fans and critics scratch their heads and wonder why. The Beatles became the biggest rock group in history, but their offspring from Big Star to XTC to the dB's barely touched the charts. How can you not win with music so upbeat, accessible, and inventive? Those hooks, those great guitar licks... But it's important to remember that no band, no matter how good, has a birthright to stardom. Guitarheavy pop music hasn't gotten anybody laid since the sixties. You can dance to it, but you sure as hell can't neck to it. The musicians aren't even sexy. Look at the Beatles, and then pull out a photo of Big Star and try to pick \"the cute one.\" The bands hoped to conquer the school proms and teeny boppers, but Big Star's Alex Chilton later speculated on their true fanbase: \"I think it just sorta strikes a resonant chord with people who are in the same boat [as we were] you know, confused, twentyyearold college students with a guitar in their hands.\" Would I rather hear these bands at the Super Bowl halftime show? Sure, but we're stuck with Aerosmith. So it goes. The dB's, an earlytomid80s southern jangle pop band from WinstonSalem via New York City, got more bad breaks than most. Poor record sales kept them from building an audience. The albums on this twoforone reissue CD Stands for deciBels and Repercussion weren't even released in the States until after the band broke up. dB Peter Holsapple has said that back when he worked at a record store, he steered customers to XTC and Squeeze albums because his own band's imports cost too much, proving once again that there is no karma in rock. Yet, the band were always critical favorites, and played a major part in spawning the \"janglepop\" sound later perfected by R.E.M. and Mitch Easter's Let's Active. Atop their twoguitar lineup, the dB's experiment with keyboards and effects, firing rounds of world class hooks at fans' feet and daring them not to pogo. And all this while retaining such a distinct sound; unlike many guitarpop bands of the time, the dB's preferred a live, unpolished sound to glossy 80s production. While lead singers and songwriters Holsapple and Chris Stamey didn't exactly have the strongest voices, they knew how to wrap their vocals around a catchy line, and more importantly, how to sing about a girl like they meant it. On Stands for deciBels, Holsapple writes the more straightahead tunes the flawless \"Big Brown Eyes,\" or the 50sangst number \"The Fight.\" Stamey, meanwhile, contributes the quirkyalmostspastic numbers like \"Cycles Per Second,\" and scores the album's most heartfelt moment on \"I'm in Love\": his voice almost breaks as he belts out, \"I don't understand.\" On the cleanersounding, more mature Repercussion, Holsapple's songs are more dire, but they always manage to maintain catchiness the album's single, \"Amplifier,\" famously discusses suicide with clever lyrics over an unwaveringly bouncy pop backing. As Holsapple turned serious, Stamey delivered ridiculously catchy songs like \"Ask for Jill,\" where he reenacts being turned down via telephone. Repercussion suggests a developing band and a terrific songwriting partnership. But soon after, MTV rejected the video for \"Amplifier\" because of the suicide theme, Stamey quit the band, and more bad luck kept their next albums from doing much better than the first. In interviews and the liner notes to this disc, the dB's sound resigned to their nearmiss with success, and imagine if they had started out today: \"'kay guys, our research says the kids want Christian rock bands that don't actually talk about God. How long can you grow your hair?\" But as I set this disc next to my other cult band reissues, I think about what Alex Chilton once said about his career: \"Somewhere along the line I figured out that if you only press up one hundred copies of a record, then eventually it will find its way to the one hundred people in the world who want it the most.\" Watching the dB's fans from the early college DJs who managed to find these albums, to the niche labels who reissue them today it's reassuring to find that Chilton was right. "}