{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2078/homepage_large.584a2983.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Artificial Intelligence","text":" Compilations like Warp's Artificial Intelligence don't come around often enough. Everything about it was gutsy. Warp had started three years earlier as a danceoriented label that grew out of a DJ shop. Its founders had fallen in love with Detroit techno and set about releasing music that would further that tradition. But they noticed that in addition to dancing at clubs and raves, people were using electronic music in another way. The iconic cover illustration said it all: A robot, reclining in his living room, quite possibly stoned, with Kraftwerk and Pink Floyd LPs strewn about his floor. They envisioned a postrave head session, a time for a contemplative and cerebral journey into music's future.A bit hippie, isn't it? Warp didn't care. And they didn't just suggest these things with a title and images; they laid it all out explicitly on the record's cover. \"Artificial Intelligence is electronic listening music for long journeys, quiet nights and club drowsy dawns\" and \"Artificial Intelligence is the first in a series of 'listening albums' from Warp.\" These statements now sound like they would be affixed to some sort of Ultimate Chill compilation sold at a coffee shop circa 1999, but this wasn't polite, headnodding downtempo. Most of Artificial Intelligence was just a click or two away from the music that would have filled a dance floor. Tempos were a little slower and textures were more labored over but the LP was built on techno's sturdy foundation.The idea was to retreat to a place removed from the utilitarian demands of the dance floor to engage in electronic music R&D.; Everything about the package was presented as a paradigm shift, all the way down to the disarmingly earnest answers to standard questions (\"Why did you contribute to A.I.\"?) supplied by the artists on the inside sleeve. In sum, Warp said \"Here is something new and original, and you are going to be hearing a lot more if it,\" and then delivered on the promise. A genre was born, but Warp's \"Electronic Listening Music\" term never caught on. Instead, we got the muchreviled \"Intelligent Dance Music,\" named after the popular email list of the same name.With Warp going out on a limb to place itself at the forefront of \"progressive\" electronic music, revisiting both newly reissued volumes of Artificial Intelligence more than a decade later is in some ways problematic. You want to hear tracks as music first, but you can't help but listen to it as a historical document. I can say that nearly all of Volume I still sounds great. Richard D. James kicks things off as The Dice Man on \"Polygon Window\", and while his synths sound slightly crude by today's standards, the datedness is ultimately appealing, the weight of history adding substance in the same way as, say, heavy reverb does to countrypolitan. Autechre here is ridged and steeped in early futurist hiphop; they contribute two great tracks including the astounding \"The Egg\", with its heavily chopped and rhythmically precise vocals. Naturally Dr. Alex Patterson brings the most archetypal ambient with the gauzy, soundeffects heavy \"Loving You Live\". I never particularly cared about Speedy J but the Dutch producer lightens the mood effectively with the bubbly and popish \"DeOrbit\" and then closes with the drifting \"Fill 3\".Relatively speaking, the second volume doesn't hold up nearly as well. Oddly, while it has more variety it also seems more generic. By 1994 there were a lot of people making \"electronic listening music\" and this doesn't feel like a particularly special assemblage of what was out there. Canned breaks ruin Link's \"Arcadian\", while a recurring sample of a woman intoning \"Feel...strange...\" throughout Mark Franklin's \"Release to the System\", unlike the Richard D. James synth textures mentioned earlier, loses meaning when plucked from its raveera context. Tracks by Richard Kirk and Higher Intelligence Agency are pleasant and engaging techno but not particularly memorable. The peak again comes from Autechre, whose \"Chatter\" finds them fusing halfspeed Cybotronstyle electro with languid acid textures, the soundtrack for breakdancing ecstasy in slow motion.In the liner notes to the first volume, the Autechre boys then just 19 and 21, respond to the question \"Electronic Music. Where next?\" with an unintentionally prophetic answer. \"When people run dry copying each other, a deeper more creative music will occur where ideas and originality will play a central role.\" By now they are all too aware that the well of mimicry is essentially bottomless and there may not be as many original ideas as we once thought. Listening to the first Artificial Intelligence compilation is a reminder of how nice it must have been back in 1992 to dream such a thing. "}