{"label":" Melodic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1162/homepage_large.e81acacc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Baïkonour","title":"For the Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos","text":" With origins in the same Versailles terroir that birthed Air, it's difficult to resist scrutinizing JeanEmmanuel Krieger's electronic project Baïkonour for similarities to his fellow countrymen's distinctively purified synthetic landscapes. And though there are moments on Baïkonour's fulllength debut, For the Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos, that bear comparison to some of the more spacious, iridescent environments of Talkie Walkie, over the album's course Krieger ably distinguishes his work through rigorous, jazzinflected musicianship and an inspired navigation of spiraling, locomotive Krautrock dynamics.For the Lonely Hearts also distances itself through its unabashed embrace of reliable (if not precisely traditional) rockbased structures. Most of the tracks here feature live drumming provided by Imitation Electric Piano's Lee Adams, and it's often his muscular, hangarspaced pummel that allows Baïkonour to avoid the stagnant eddies of soporific postrock. Following the delicate harpstring shimmer of the opening \"Lick Lokoum\", Krieger and Adams immediately kick into the unstoppable motorikcumStax propulsion of \"Coltan Anyone?\" Combining surprisingly humid, greasy rhythms with Krieger's baroque, Floydian keyboard flourishes, this track should provide immediate succor to any waylaid Caribou fans, as it instantly snuffs out any lingering potential for dustless, scifi sterility. This last detail feels particularly pertinent, as Baïkonour takes its name from a Soviet missile launch site and the album's title and artwork both imply a certain Sputnikera retrofuturism. To the contrary, however, these songs remain stubbornly coarsetextured and earthy, even pastoral, as on \"Hoku To Shin Ken\", a track whose circular melody is fed by tranquil, Byrdslike guitar arpeggios. Elsewhere \"ProtoCoeur\" plows a recharged Peter Gunn riff around and through various hairpin turns and blind alleys, while tracks like \"Rusk Plasmique\" and \"60 To 0\" can recall M83's synthesized My Bloody Valentine atmospheres. Throughout the album, Krieger consistently astonishes with the daring breadth of his playing, as he embellishes several otherwise straightforward pop hooks with as much florid ornamentation as good taste will allow. Aside from the occasional submerged whisper, as on the classicStereolab echoes of \"2/3/74\", For the Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos contains no vocals or lyrics to speak of, but still the album retains the impression of a cohesive, sequential narrative. Culminating with the vibrant surfside pulse of \"Ultra Lazuli\", the album's plotline feels primarily driven by Krieger's skill at flawlessly integrating the various strands of his musical memory and appetites to recast the familiar in new, evocative shades uniquely his own. And this he does with such an addictively melodic flair that it should be easy for listeners to find space for this album within their lonely hearts. "}