{"label":" Man","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2070/homepage_large.df70dc86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Não Wave: Brazil Post Punk 1982-1988","text":" Two collections of this Brazilian postpunk appear during the same month, and it seems almost like someone just made it up, like the punchline to a joke about music elitists \"These days I'm mostly into Brazilian postpunk.\" Then again, the reissue cottage industry has thrived on tracing the way familiar Western genres were circulated and reimagined across the rest of the planet. Garage and punk could offer a DIY template for Japanese or Indian kids to get moving; psychedelic rock could swim out to Turkey and Thailand and collide with the \"exotic\" sounds it was already imitating; even the instantglobalism of dance music is constantly spitting out regional variants, from Israeli trance to baile funk.And, as baile funk demonstrates, Brazil is a natural for mixing a variety of sounds, with a seriously musical culture that's already built on a constantlyshifting amalgam of influences  African, Iberian, indigenous, \"Western.\" The decades leading up to this music saw the country swing from idealistic technocracy to military dictatorship and back, from national feuds about the electric guitar's corruption of domestic pop to centralized nationalculture projects to apparent freedom what better moment for this stuff to land?The thrill, with this sort of thing, is always in the freshness of the results, and there's plenty of that on display in these two compilations from ultraenergetic funk on Sexual Life to the synth experiments of São Paulo goths on Não Wave. It'd be sheer cultural projection to imagine that the bands behind these tracks, outside of our Western limelight, just magically felt free to cut loose and let the creative urges flow; the politicization of Brazilian music goes at least as far back and the splits between Tom Jobim and Nara Leão, and I'd be willing to bet than in São Paulo, 1983, as anywhere else, there were kids in the back of the club bitching about how Agentss were totally five minutes ago. No, the freedom here is something else, and anyone expecting to hear the postpunk template meshing with Carnivalesque samba and the old violão will be mildly disappointed. The main difference is this: While the Western acts we'll compare these tracks to put a lot of energy into keeping fierce and conjuring up gloom, their Brazilian counterparts don't necessarily share that agenda. With the best of these artists, it seems like a lot of the template crossed the ocean as nothing more than a stylish, compelling sound something that could just as easily be attacked with a lot more joy and warmth.Each compilation has similar estimations of who that \"best of these artists\" might refer to only three tracks actually overlap between them, but there's not much contention over the core acts. As Mercenarias were a spiky girlgroup whose analogs (Slits, Liliput, Au Pairs) leave them sounding particularly accessible today; Sexual Life kicks off with two of their tracks, while Não Wave makes room for a oneminute rant. Then there's Akira S et as Garotas que Erraram, whose sound is accessible in a more surprising way, so effortlessly ofthemoment that piling on the references doesn't really help. (\"Sobre as Pernas,\" on both discs, sounds to these ears like the dour early funk of A Certain Ratio meeting the hustling bass and synth wash of A Flock of Seagulls.) Fellini, smaller in scale but bigger in oddity, manage to score two cuts on each set, with a sparser pop/rock sound \"Rock Europeu\" jangles confidently, but elsewhere it's minimal, drummachined pop with a curious bedroombuilt sound. And the two comps also share their rockout moment, with a jawdropping entry from Muzak: \"Ilha Urbana\" is dark and quite casually fierce, with patterns of guitar noise shaping up and accelerating like This Heat or Bauhaus.The differences between the discs are partly curatorial, and partly in the vibe built up around the bits they share. Sexual Life doubles up tracks on key artists Chance, Akira S, Smack, others and feels mixed for continuity: It kicks off with its most accessible pop and then swings, as befits a Soul Jazz product, into a midsection that piles on the funk. This is where the expected Brazilian touches come through, and where the genre splits off into something all its own. The complex polyrhythms and spazzedout dance moves build their way to incredible levels of energy. One track's overhyped bounce and showy guitar solos sound almost like L.A. funkmetal, another offers postdisco party chants, others hustle and grind like Public Image Limited. With Patife and Gueto and Nau, percussion goes nuts, song structures hit metallike levels of instrumental interplay, and the vocals shout to follow.Whereas Não Wave coasts along in a vaguely more European pop mold. A band like Black Future might let out a little of that dark, bouncing funk, but for the most part these acts keep their hair stylish and their armpits dry; by the end, Voluntários de Pátria are borrowing XTC's \"Making Plans for Nigel\" riff for a loopy twominute strut. This disc's center, in fact, exposes a vibe that just might be the polar opposite of Sexual Life's edgy, stylish newwave and moody, synthassisted excursions for the São Paulo goths. Azul 29 sound more like Fad Gadget or Soft Cell than any guitar band, and Chance's sleepy \"Samba do Morro\". while on both discs, sounds more at home here. Bands like AKT and Ira! build up plenty of motion, but their particular sounds have more in common with the airy edges of Wire or Swell Maps or Siouxsie and the Banshees than the gutlevel flash of Sexual Life's selection.Still, anyone overly struck by the difference in tone might just be reacting to the psychological spillover of the packaging vivid, jaunty yellow for Soul Jazz, classic black for Man Recordings, the German label issuing Não Wave. The bridges between the two are obvious enough, and it's a happy coincidence that they'd both appear at the same time. Both, really, get to offer something fairly splendid: Newly exhumed reissues that don't feel as if too much of their value is wrapped up in archival curiosity or musicelite tourism. Half of the fun with the standard postpunk canon is tracing out all the directions the anythinggoes aesthetic had bands moving. These days, with \"postpunk\" narrowing down to describe a pretty rigid sphere, it's a treat to hear how that anythinggoes worked somewhere else with a selection of tracks as exciting as any English reissue you might dig up. "}