{"label":" Thirsty Ear","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2691/homepage_large.7ab6fce1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"El-P","title":"High Water","text":" When ElP isn't busy running the Def Jux label, composing beats for an illfated Cannibal Ox collaboration, scoring independent New York graffiti films, and getting trashed with rapper Camu Tao in their Central Services side project, he's now vying for prominence as a credible jazz composer. Earlier this year, ElP made an unexpected leap into jazzfusion territory, following DJ Spooky's footsteps by producing an installment of the Thirsty Ear label's Blue Series Continuum project. Matthew Shipp and other Thirsty Ear regulars worked with ElP on several loose compositions (\"Sunrise Over Bklyn\" was released as an EP last year), and the result is a compelling synthesis of the hiphop producer's talents and the solid ensemble work of the Blue Series collective. ElP's edits and subtle production work strengthens the ensemble's more indulgent moments. Shipp's piano accompaniment typically grounds the album in discernible structure, but on \"Sunrise Over Bklyn\", ElP's tactful synth highlights divert attention from the pianist's uncharacteristically clumsy performance. Shipp's vamping on that track seems particularly overwrought, and it overwhels Roy Campbell and Steve Swell's excellent horn arrangements. Shipp is also disruptive on the album's bookends, both titled \"Please Leave (Yesterday)\" (variations on Charles Aznavour's \"Yesterday When I Was Young\"), embracing grandiose loungey flourishes that offset the album's carefully layered production. ElP sometimes seems reluctant to interfere with the ensemble's improvisation, which is a shame considering that the album's strongest tracks show him taking the reins from individual players. A live hiphop beat serves as the foundation to the spacious fusion jam \"Get Your Hand Off My Shoulder, Pig\", and the dense production of \"Intrigue in the House of India\" ranging from bossanova piano and percussion to dark triphop layering displays the expansive potential of the project. \"When the Moon Was Blue\" features sampled vocals by ElP's father, Harry Keys, and finds a compelling balance between the traditional jazz influences embodied in Keys' gruff jazz delivery and his son's hiphop collage editing style. The album occasionally succumbs to meandering improvisation and crosses the line between exploratory improv and tedious jamming. \"Get Modal\" starts off on the wrong foot with a lengthy bit of arbitrary studio chatter and never exceeds its basic bassdriven fusion pattern. \"Something Is Wrong\" is a generally aimless mix of synths, samples, and the endless variation and repetition of an irritating piano theme. This isn't entirely the fault of these usually reliable musicians. ElP's hiphop production work has lagged recently, and Collecting the Kid, a scrapbook documenting his many recent production projects, underscores this. Included here are pieces from his soundtrack to the Adam Lough film Bomb the System, unused instrumental collaborations with Def Jux alumni Cannibal Ox, Mr. Lif, and Murs, and previously released material (including a track from High Water). Though assembling a few excellent tracks including \"Constellation\", a reworking of his contribution to the Charlie Bird remix album Bird Up, and \"The Day After Yesterday\" is convenient for ElP diehards, most of this material isn't essential. The collection is notable primarily for the unreleased tracks from Central Services, ElP's collaboration with Camu Tao. \"Jukie Skate Rock\" with a relatively spare old school beat and squealing synths serving as a backdrop for a callandresponse chorus/Def Jux label plug is a throwback to the party DJs that soundtracked ElP's childhood. \"Oxycontin\" was conceived as an hourlong druginduced odyssey; ElP has whittled it down to a lean five minutes. On these tracks, Camu Tao's disconcerting crooning over minimal, thundering percussion and sinister blanket of organ, guitar, and synth emphasizes the importance of distinctive vocals to complement ElP's instrumental arrangements.High Water suggests a potentially bright future for ElP in hiphop/jazz hybrid composition, but most of Collecting the Kid shows one of underground hiphop's most consistently rewarding producers in a frustrating holding pattern. His material for Bomb the System is largely ambient and only intermittently interesting (the most memorable thing about \"Telemundo\" is the overacting hinted at in the sampled film clips), frequently coming across as lighter, strippeddown versions of the kind of menacing soundscapes that originally brought ElP to such a high level of underground acclaim. Similarly, Collecting the Kid plays like an afterthought; the album is essentially a reminder that ElP's jazz detour is only a temporary diversion from the music that shaped Def Jux. "}