{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2492/homepage_large.cce30357.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Double Leopards","title":"A Hole Is True","text":" There's always been something primitive and prerational within the garbled drones of Brooklynbased quartet Double Leopards. If more metallic drone sculptors like Earth or Sunn O))) can approximate the sound of a continent's tectonic plates shifting into position, Double Leopards instead channel a later epoch when the earliest creatures first began to extend their curious feelers out of the primordial ooze. And as the Leopards have accelerated their prolific output, it has grown progressively more difficult to identify the constituent parts of their mercurial noise.Since the release of their landmark 2003 2xLP Halve Maen, Double Leopards have seemingly foresworn the epic statement, choosing instead to salt their music away on numerous smaller releases. The best of their recent crop might be Out of One, Through One and to One, a vinylonly album released earlier this year on Eclipse. But measuring the group's many recordings against each other is ultimately fruitless. Each variant is similar but displays subtly distinct gradations of modulated, indecipherable noise, and when considered together as a body of work they join to create an interconnected terrain of daunting postindustrial badlands.Recorded, appropriately enough, at the Tar Pit in Brooklyn, A Hole Is True is likely to be the group's easiesttofind release to date, and is perhaps the most succinct distillation of their shadowy, merciless arts. The title seems a slight misdirection, as there's no sign of holes anywhere on the album's three impossibly dense squalls. Whatever its substance, the opening \"Inmost Light\" enters with a dizzying electric whirr that repeatedly threatens to congeal into a riff, before getting blown to pieces by a cyclone of unmoored spectral wails. \"Chemical Wedding\" is even simpler, just a razorthin current of pulsing overtones, while the 21minute \"White Cadillacs\" uses voices nearly recognizable as human to deliver shifty messages directly to the reptilian core of your brainstem.Intense as A Hole Is True can be, even more abusive is Savage Summer Sun, which captures two live performances recorded during the group's 2005 tour. The first of these, recorded at Il Coral in Los Angeles, is a 36minute torrent of malformed rhythms and hypnotic sheets of distended feedback; the second is an equally lengthy sequence of blistering, slowmotion amp mulch and decaying radio waves. Although not quite on the grand scale of Halve Maen, these tracks are purely widescreen experiences, and sitting through them both backtoback can be an utterly devastating procedure. As with all of Double Leopard's most potent rituals, these two albums can each induce a cognitive return to those familiar black waters, allowing the listener to settle back into the murk and patiently await the further cooling of the Earth's crust. "}