{"label":" Zoe","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2461/homepage_large.dab038e9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Nicolai Dunger","title":"Here's My Song You Can Have It...I Don't Want It Anymore/Yours 4-Ever Nicolai","text":" Nicolai Dunger is a serial collaborator. He's forged a career out of fruitful partnerships with artists openminded enough to follow his lead but with a different enough approach to keep things interesting. In addition to working and touring with Calexico, Emiliana Torrini, and Sufjan Stevens, Dunger recorded the bucolic Tranquil Isolation with Will Oldham; the Soundtrack of Our Lives were his backing band on This Cloud Is Learning; and the Esbjorn Svenssons Trio jazzed up his songs on Soul Rush. For Here's My Song You Can Have It... I Don't Want It Anymore/Yours 4Ever Nicolai Dunger (which gives Fiona Apple's When the Pawn... a run for its money and still comes up 80 words short), he teamed up with Mercury Rev. For someone who has pinned his musical identity to so many others, it's impressive that these collaborations are so naturally balanced that each resulting album sounds distinct but still like the work of Nicolai Dunger; each is a point on a steady line, with no illogical jumps in between.  Mercury Rev, who also coproduced Here's My Song, create baroque pastoral settings for Dunger's songs, reminiscent of their own albums but less otherworldly. Gentle guitar lines weep over a stonestepping piano melody on \"Country Lane\", and an organ thrums suggestively on the eightminute \"The Year of Love and Hurt Cycle\". Tambourines, spoons, and ragtag percussion jangle rustically on \"Way Up High\", while a regiment of horns storm in and out theatrically, interrupted by a doowop break. More inventive than Soundtrack of Our Lives and less chillily austere than Oldham, Mercury Rev prove to be his most dynamic partners, framing his songs but never infringing on them. Dunger always remains in the foreground, but with that malleable voice, how could he not? As a vocalist, Dunger is most often compared to Van Morrison or Jeff Buckley, but here his songwriting and singing are obviously patterned on American soul music, suggesting vocalists like Al Green or Sam Moore. He sounds more purposeful in his performance: projecting on \"My Time Is Now\" and \"The Year of Love and Hurt Cycle\", pulling back for softer moments like \"White Wild Horses\" and \"Slaves (We're Together Like)\", and investing \"Hunger\" and \"Someone New\" with lusty commitment. Whether this sensitivity to the demands of the songs is practiced or intuitive or whether it's the result of singing more demanding material seems beside the point. Dunger creates enough drama to fill the stage Mercury Rev has set for him, his quiet vibrato like an aside to the audience. "}