{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2900/homepage_large.262ee97e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Austin Gaines","artist":"Earth","title":"Living in the Gleam of an Unsheathed Sword","text":" When one reads about Dylan Carlson and his Earth project, the signs point to him being an overhyped amateur. Releasing albums consisting of repetitive riffs or tones with little or no drumming and being the former drug buddy of Kurt Cobain each register on my hack radar. Yet, over the years I've been pleasantly impressed with his minimalist sound sculptures none more so than on Hex, one of a pair of Earth releases this year.Unfortuantely, the drone guitar star fails to impress on the 60minute live track which basically constitutes Living in the Gleam. Recorded a few years ago, with a drummer at his side, it finds Carlson still tackling riffs rather than reverting to the suffocating drone of his early albums. It's nothing special, just a handful of riffs repeated in variation and some guesstimating drums to keep the jamming pace. The track doesn't crawl too much but it also fails to go anywhere exciting. Earth tack on a solo guitar piece (\"Dissolution III\") that was already hanging around on another release, but Living In the Gleam can't compete with the band's studio output.But when Carlson has enough time to compose his riffs he's pretty damn good. The first studio Earth album in nearly a decade, and a departure from the previous four, Hex is a surprisingly beautiful instrumental album. Instead of distorted riffing, we get the austere beauty of a telecaster roaming the Western U.S. It's a genuine representation of our affliction of romance with the despairing beauty of loneliness, the sound of being in solitary confinement in an expansive, wideopen land.Try good ol' post rock like Mogwai or Low, on a collision course with some of Calexico's more spacious moments and you've got the sound of Hex. The LP's tracks have Americanalike names such as \"The Dire and Ever Circling Wolves\" and \"Land of Some Other Order\", and the overtly western \"An Inquest Concerning Teeth\" with its simply stunning note progression is the standout. While some of Carlson's previous albums were fractured from track to track, Hex is a cohesive vision of the heavy drone/stoner/doom that Earth pioneered. Carlson is a great illustrator and can distill a sensation with just a few notes unlike many other musicians. With Hex, I can feel the wind, see the horizon, and touch the grassfilled plains. I don't think about a guitarist and a drummer plodding along and working out songs, as I do with so much other experimental music. Perhaps the live jamming on Living in the Gleam has the same transformative powers to someone else. Maybe, but I doubt it. "}