{"label":" Island","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2799/homepage_large.a7b99eb1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Eric B. & Rakim","title":"Paid in Full","text":" For a second, forget everything extraneous about Eric B. & Rakim: Rakim's G.O.A.T. status; the debate over who was actually responsible for their music; the rumor that Eric had to get a steel rod in his spine after the dookie ropes fucked his neck up.* After a dozen changes of rap fashion, when kids born in 1987 are graduating from high school, do these records still hold up? Do they deserve your money when more new music than ever crowds the shelves?Well, yes. Obviously. Especially since these new masters are retailing for a beyondfair 10 bucks. (Whatever the quality of the material, charging nearly $20 for catalog items is robbery.) Unlike the bulkedup, slightly lardy Paid in Full reissue from 1999, this edition tacks on a few bonuses without making a big deal out of it. (Full disclosure: I am an originalsequencing purist.) And of course, the music is as essential as the James Brown whose skinny legs supported large chunks of their legacy.It's hard to believe, now that the Neptunes have made zen thrift signify in the nouveauriche top 10, but these minimal and sometimes unfriendly (though never less than seductive and often galvanic) tracks represented an antipop move. You have to rewind back to the mid80s not a super time for \"urban\" music outside of a nascent rap scene still underground enough to need label addresses at the end of singles reviews. Luther Vandross. Anita Baker. Lionel Richie outselling all other black artists of 1984. Is it any wonder in this context that booming kickdrums, garden claw snares, bacteriadisrupting subbass, and tales (freaky, funny, raw, and true) seemed the only viable alternative?Eric Barrier and William Griffin benefited by being in the right place (NYC) at the right time (just as rap began fumbling towards its own sense of importance). Their mentor, Marley Marl, had just begun to work with the digital sampler, a tentative step away from the fixed parameters of both drum machines and house bands, and towards openended creative theft. Marl, Schoolly D, Scott La Rock and others had defined mid80s rap as a crash of stiff, hard, stupid (in the best sense) Linn drums and astounding B.S. rhymes. If it was hiphop's garagerock a street reaction against the first wave of crossover poprap then it was all but waiting for the kind of intellectual vernacular so beloved of critics to \"take it to the next level.\"Griffin threw his Kangol in the ring from the opening lines of Eric B & Rakim's debut single, \"Eric B Is President\": \"I came in the door/ I said it before/ I never let the mic magnetize me no more.\" It is one of the 10 or so most famous verses in rap. Rakim's innovation was applying a patina of intellectual detachment to rap's most sacred cause: talking shit about how you're a better rapper than everyone else. He was the supreme exponent of rappingaboutrapping, an almost lost art now that every MC carries a thousand pounds of crackdealing backstory around with him.Rakim immediately projected his selfbelief not so much messianic as matteroffact that he was the best. He got away with it every time he opened his mouth and that voice came out: authoritative, burnished, possessing an unflappable sense of rhythm like a drumming prodigy. You only think of his restricted subject matter as a failing in the wake of Big, Pac, Cube, even Chuck D. You don't go to Rakim for political insight, inner turmoil, or sex chat. You go to Rakim for an endless display of pure skill. He encourages the grading mindset. The big reason why Nas is runnerup is because he injected some pathos and fallibility into the preternatural control thing.Skills, of course, can be their own reward, when put into the service of exciting people rather than showing off. (Okay, or a mix of the two.) And when the records are playing, it's hard to begrudge them their 30yard stare. Paid in Full, the debut, is more laidback and funky, though padded at seven vocals and three instrumentals. It reprised the debut single, a moody, atypical fusion full of stark dublike dropouts, mod stutter effects, and flat production. It's obvious why they stuck it at the end of the album; at that point, rap was moving so fast that records released six months prior were already old hat.The second single, \"My Melody\", is pre\"funky\" hiphop par excellence and a 2005 hit in waiting, with little more than a concrete cracking kickdrum and a bluntedged bassthrob. (Of course, R's flow would immediately mark him out as an old man amongst today's shouters, growlers, and mumblers.) \"I Know You Got Soul\" let some human grit into the manmachine via JB, and momentarily fucked up everyone's concept of the spacetime continuum until cyborgizing old drummers became common enough to show up in Milli Vanilli records. \"Paid in Full\" was kind of light and fun, even if its subject matter was dead serious. Getting paid for studio work? Not the corner? Not the grind? The future was wide open.Both of these albums contain too much filler to get a free \"classic\" pass, but the highs of Follow the Leader are as high as any rap group has gotten. The title track fleshes out Rakim's metaphorical conceit via hellish highspeedchase music. The beats rattle, the bass seethes, the flutes and strings screech like Blaxploitation crossed with the cheap urgency of an Italian zombie movie. But what's scariest and most exhilarating is how, for all the track's runaway train momentum, it feels inexorable, implacable, utterly in control of itself. Rakim's delivery of the final verse may be the most exciting at least in terms of breath control slice of rap the genre has yet delivered. (And no, Twista doesn't count.)\"Microphone Fiend\" rattled sleigh bells harder than anyone until Pete Rock showed up, and the stabbing dynamics of the guitar sample harassed the ear something awful. The chopper blade beats of \"Lyrics of Fury\" almost render the genre it would help to inspire (jungle) redundant. In this era, when almost all rap was \"fast rap,\" tracks like these and \"The R\" were the roughneck alternative to a burgeoning hiphouse, beats impacting your body as your mind swam at the density of words. Unfortunately, by the time they released Let the Rhythm Hit 'Em, an attempt to extend the deft simplicity of their debut, in 1990, they were already old news. (Perhaps best exemplified by the cover of 1992's Don't Sweat the Technique.) Deposed kings before they'd even hit their 30s, they've limped through the ensuing decade about which the most that can be said is that they didn't scuff up their legacy too much.These reissues add a handful of remixes (two on Paid, three on Leader), none essential. The only criminal inclusion is a truncated version of Coldcut's remix of \"Paid in Full\" rather than the full seven minutes of madness. (But whatever, it's overrated anyway.) The covers with their gold anchor chains, manhole medallions, and customized Dapper Dan jackets are a nice rebuke to anyone who thinks conspicuous consumption is a newschool disease. The contents are a reminder of a brief period where people thought they could become a millionaire on skills alone, where the reality of that was so far away that no one had to think about what being a millionaire would mean to the culture that nurtured those skills. "}