{"label":" Snowglobe","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2840/homepage_large.c9a3f657.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Emperor X","title":"Tectonic Membrane/Thin Strip on an Edgeless Platform","text":" Chad Matheny is a toddler among boys. The world of lofi pop is already rife with contrived boyishness and adolescent sophistry, but with Tectonic Membrane/Thin Strip on an Edgeless Platform, Matheny has lowered the bar to a nearunlimboable level. Emperor X, the ominoussounding alias behind the Gainesville, FL singer/songwriter's giddy pop alchemy, is merely a feeble façade. The real Matheny is a devout homebody, and his story runs like so: Born in Louisville, Kentucky in 1979, Matheny was tinkering with an SK1 sampling keyboard, given to him by his grandparents, at age nine, and with a little help from his pawnshoppatronizing dad, he recorded his first album on a Tascam fourtrack before turning 20. In fact, throughout his congenital musical career, Matheny's family has played an integral role, and it shows: Tectonic Membrane/Thin Strip on an Edgeless Platform is one of the most winsome and charmingly diminutive lofi records of the moment, weaving a sturdy matrix of reliable pop nuggets. While Tectonic Membrane embodies and relishes the fourtrack aesthetic, Matheny's compositions are deceptively complex. Listen carefully and you'll hear intricate overdubbing and a bevy of digital affectations, ranging from retro synths to more uptodate pedals and tinker toys. The 8\\xBDminute \"Intracellular\" is flooded in amorphous guitar peals and keyboard swells, and would feel right at home amongst the work of similarly lofi process artists or latterday Black Dice. In spite of his sly technological sophistication, however, Matheny maintains an air of trembling innocence throughout the record, which dabbles in divergent styles and moods. Surprisingly, these songs' oft tenuous resolutions and childlike lack of focus are seldom as irksome as they seem on paper, and generally enhance Emperor X's ingratiating aesthetic. Appropriately, opener \"Exterminata Beat\" is the most immediately engaging track. Propelled by a motorik pop beat, Matheny turns in a demure vocal performance and an irrepressible distorted Rhodes harmony, before the mix abruptly cuts off and an audibly conducted choral segue fades in. It's a discomfiting juxtaposition at first, but as Emperor X's ambitions become clearer, the move seems more and more appropriate. \"Laminate Factory\", which features a serpentine vocal melody over jagged acoustic strumming, clarifies things somewhat, but it's not until \"Bashling\" that Tectonic Membrane solidifies its standing as a handsomely potluck gem. Indebted to an array of shoegazer outfits particularly Yo La Tengo in its rising, tremololaden guitars the song adds some gravity to this occasionally flighty collection. Matheny is an unabashedly wanting singer, and while some may see that as part of his appeal, it occasionally edges on bothersome. \"Filene's Basement\" is most offputting in its cryptic narrative and clunky delivery, but fortunately, the song skirts by in under two minutes, and its effect on the flow of the album is negligible at worst. Elsewhere, \"Unworthiness Drones\" is a directionless rhythmic experiment that does hamper the momentum slightly, especially when it arbitrarily tails off after a bout of spasmodic stuttering. Luckily, such miscues keep a relatively low profile, and the preponderance of enduring melodies is a formidable saving grace. Most will agree that the last thing underground music needs is more Phil Elvrum wannabes and lofi dilettantes, which is why Chad Matheny's efforts are so impressive. Constantly battling the odds and winning, Tectonic Membrane is an easy album to champion, and a refreshing show for a floundering genre. "}