{"label":" Sarah","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3302/homepage_large.63ef59bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"The Field Mice","title":"Snowball + Singles","text":" One of the dumber myths about rock is that it's always meant to have balls, and one of the first things we're meant to notice about the Londonsuburban Field Mice is how blatantly they disregarded that notion. We live in our world, right: Pop stars are sexy extroverts and hipshaking tomcats and there's something suspect about a guitar group getting too sappy, too cloying. For this band, though, pop stars are just starryeyed suburban virgins or maybe librarians, and \"sappy\" isn't even a real word. If that sounds like a wimpy schoolboy wish, well, so do a lot of Robert Wratten's lyrics. Check out the milkywet martyrdom of \"Sensitive\", or song titles like \"I Can See Myself Alone Forever\". Wratten's bigeyed earnestness can go beyond the point of embarrassment and into some realm of almost psychedelic earnestness, and in spots it's difficult to tell whether it's studied naiveté or whether he's genuinely arrested in some weepy boyish crush phase.Attitude like that is the better part of why the Field Mice make some people blissyhappy and some people pukeysick; this stuff can sound gorgeous or creepy, brave or pathetic, dreamy or reactionary. Listening through these LTM reissues of the band's catalog, though three albums, 1989 to 1991, with all those outofprint Sarah Records singles and EPs folded in you get a keen demonstration of what a huge red herring the schoolboy stuff actually is. The truth is that critics hell, even fans haven't come far in developing a vocabulary to talk about this kind of music: It's still referred to as all barrettes and cardigans and \"pure, perfect pop.\"But if the Field Mice were just adorable indiepop amateurs, then why do they sound so slick and stylish? Yeah, they have their sunny strumalongs and wistful laidback jangle songs so \"pop\" that it feels like someone must always have sounded like this. But then not so long afterward, didn't Ride come along in the same stripey shirts and fuzz the exact same stuff up into \"higher\" art? And weren't the Field Mice just as ambitious? They tried their hands at just about every leading edgetrend of the era: Fuzzy pop, homespun \"indiedance,\" wimpfueled acid house, and sweetcream dreampop shoegazing all moves that struck late80s ears as fullon trippy. Couple that with the nonstop starry eyes, and there's something kind of intense about reckoning with this music: No matter how sweet or guileless they sound, they're as \"difficult\" of a band to deal with as your average avantgardists.The payoff is this: When the songs work, it's all easy. The first of these reissues, Snowball, wraps up the band's sweetandsimple early work open chords and a muted drum machine, stripping down bookish English indie to a purity that can leave the Sundays looking like a progmetal outfit. The best of these tracks have a charm that makes boyish idealism sound like one of the better phases of life, and they cast a long shadow on everything that came after them. These singles are the wellspring of nicekid indiepop and crooningaboutEnglishrain tricks and nearly everything the Lucksmiths or the Ocean Blue ever did; they sound nostalgic now, but then they sounded nostalgic from the moment they were recorded. \"Emma's House\" is legendarily great, dead simple, and endlessly forlorn; it's like the GoBetweens gone weepy, with one of Wratten's best lyrics folded in. \"Let's Kiss and Make Up\" is dance music played by a band that's on the verge of falling asleep; it's easy to forget how much better it sounded in Saint Etienne's hands. \"You're Kidding, Aren't You\" is all style, and \"Everything About You\" is one of the most joyful, least opaque love songs I've ever heard: Just \"I love the sound of your voice/ I love the way that you smile.\" If the Field Mice were ever really a band for the wallflowers and the librarians and the shy little suckers in their beds with their books, then this was it and like most things that seem a little regressive in the UK, it's a sleepy Anglophile's wet dream.But if Wratten was that kind of reactionary retreating, Morrisseystyle, from the real world of \"cool\" into some lonelyschoolboy phase then how to explain the next album, Skywriting? The thing kicks off with a nineminute \"We are Interested in Acid House\" epic that sounds like some failed prototype of the stuff Seefeel and Slowdive did. The next few tracks are more reassuring. \"Canada\" is a bouncy strummer that has Wratten pining away for some girl who's pining away for some other guy: \"The ones we love don't always love us back/ You and I, the two of us, know that.\" \"Clearer\" even sounds like the Smiths, or at least McCarthy. But by the time you get to \"Humblebee\", they're doing get this a washedout sample collage that halfsounds like Disco Inferno on an off day; its mantra, \"Chocolate, love, sex,\" even made it as far as a tshirt. Fold in a collection of surprisingly slick pop singles, and the whole shamblywallflower caricature is demolished; some of this stuff sounds just this side of scoring a fluke pop hit, something like Modern English's \"I Melt with You\" or the Lightning Seeds' \"Pure\".The last record, For Keeps, is the most accomplished of the bunch: The pop is more ambitious and sprightly, and the cuttingedge failures seem a lot less failed. It's here that the band starts to sound like Slowdive gone ultrasappy which, depending on your tolerance for chimy guitars and Swiss Miss keyboards, can be a mildly remarkable thing. In and around that, you get plenty of acoustic sweetheartism, and some of the band's most winsome pop songs: I spent part of my teenage years convinced \"Coach Station Reunion\" had to be a Monkees cover, despite its psychedelic sighs. When the pop jangle and the spacey tricks come together right on \"Of the Perfect Kind,\" or New Order wannabe \"Missing the Moon\" you realize the Field Mice were a lot better at making music than they get credit for; these tracks are as impressive as they are cloying, and dated in a pretty fascinating way.What's hard to say is how much of this material is all worthwhile. Even if you develop the kind of massive soft spot that fuels the band's obsessive cult following, you'll still wind up picking through these tracks looking for the moments that really and truly work. Even stranger is the realization that the Field Mice weren't particularly better at anything than the bulk of their peers. Blueboy were more musical, the Railway Children were more stylish, Heavenly were smarter, and the Primitives were more exciting; the Darling Buds were better for dancing, Blind Mr Jones were better at lowbudget shoegazing, the Hit Parade were more reliably adorable, and Honeybunch though far from English were better than just about everything ever. There's a reason, though, that the Field Mice loom so large above so many of their contemporaries, and it's just that they were the damned Field Mice: Whether you're swooning or laughing or rolling your eyes at this stuff, the reason is that it's packed with so much personality, so many idiosyncrasies and extremities, that you can't help but get involved. For the English, this stuff is wrapped up in a whole indiekid socialclass context the rest of us don't have much chance of ever grasping but on this side of the Atlantic, it's the singularity of the thing that counts.So whatever their reputation, this is a band that asked and deserved to be taken on the same ambitious terms as the groups they admired. Do that, and they rapidly emerge as one of the most unique outfits of their time. Maddeningly unique, maybe but cracking into that world can offer some awfully singular rewards. "}