{"label":" TV5","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3268/homepage_large.fe7192cf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Fe-Mail","title":"Syklubb fra Hælvete","text":" FeMail are Maja Ratkje and Hild Sofie Tafjord, both formerly of the Norwegian experimental electroacoustic quartet Spunk. You might also know Ratkje from her exceptional 2002 solo album Voice, on which she demonstrated how the bizarre fury of a woman scorned could produce as intimidating, recklessly creative storm as any force in nature. Only, she didn't actually seem scorned; her solo work, and that with FeMail, can be abrasive, but in general seems more the work of someone who takes more than a little pride in fucking with people. The duo's music, represented on 2003's Syklubb fra Hælvete and the new All Men Are Pigs, can seem an exercise in pushing buttons and not necessarily just the electronic kind. Apparently, FeMail want to see just how far they can lead me into a semichaotic world, daring me to lean in closer so they can pounce with industrial loops and howling electronic screams.Surprising, then, to discover that their brand of noise (Merzbow is a better point of reference than any of their peers at Rune Grammofon) is so fetching. Living up to the questionable pun of their moniker, FeMail delight in using images of female sexuality and glamour to contrast the ironfisted free terror of their music. They pose as calendar models on their album covers or use Rik Rawling's lurid cartoons fusing softcore porn with heavy artillery and seem only too happy to exploit their rather attractive competitive advantage. I get the feeling they're trying to tell me something, too, be it an ironic statement about improvised noise music, or just a kissoff to all the hipster chauvinists of the world. Regardless of the concept, Syklubb and All Men deliver on purely musical fronts in spades, so you don't need to feel very guilty for having a nagging urge to stare at the CD jackets.Syklubb was originally released in an edition of 500 on pink vinyl in Norway last year. The Important Records CD reissue contains two tracks not on the original, \"Virus Attachment 1\" and \"Virus Attachment 2\". These pieces foreshadow the nearviolent thrust of All Men, and are in considerable contrast with much of Syklubb. The former begins with a brief exposition of birdsong, but soon initiates a loop of cutup, highpitched vocals and distorted percussion. The sound is not unlike recent outings by New York's Black Dice, using metallic, muscular sounds to construct highly detailed noisescapes. \"Jacob's Toy\" is much less confrontational: Atmospheric ambience, provided by who knows what analog synthesizer or manipulated field recording, sets up a mildly disorientating vocal section that alternates spoken word with wildly altered screams and laughs. FeMail use the human voice as source material rather than a lead instrument, though it invariably lends acoustic warmth to their music.Since much of FeMail's music is improvised, it's not surprising to hear it run through several seemingly unrelated textures within a piece. \"Water Music\" is the calmest track on Syklubb, but even with layers of natural ambience and water effects, the sine tones and suffocating vocal loop (not to mention spooky, discordant piano) lends it a disturbing quality. Likewise, \"Modogin\" begins as relatively lowkey exercise in electroacoustic minimalism, using what sounds like sandpaper and a plaintive, wordless vocal melody to orchestrate a damaged aria. However, the uneasy peace is broken with a gurgling generator in the left speaker, and a jagged, ferocious roar in the right. And \"jagged\" seems like the right word for FeMail; a topographical diagram of their music would return severe spikes in mood, texture and volume.All Men Are Pigs was recorded with photographer and noise musician Lasse Marhaug, and serves as a pretty good \"fuck you\" to anyone expecting shyer music. If Syklubb had been a study in varying shades of noise, this one is outright terror. Grating, overdriven fuzz swirls through pieces that mix bits of sampled metal guitar and radio static into a single, continuous strip of blades. Rarely, as on \"Here's That Rainy Day, Sid Hendrix' Last Grunt\", the storm subsides into smaller pockets, though most of All Men seems designed to push listeners accustomed to \"lighter\" structures to their breaking points.Of course, this is what makes All Men such a captivating listen. Rather than milk the fury until it no longer has any impact, FeMail know just when to say \"when,\" and how to frame chaos in the barest skeleton so as to suggest that what is happening isn't strictly chaotic, but a spiky, illtempered tone poem. The surreal, nightmarish collages at the outset of \"Charmed\" seem to logically prepare me for the paranoid apocalypse of its conclusion; the futurejungle calls of \"Fresh from the Flesh, On a Bed of Roses\" sound like perfect foils for its percussive gearshift loop and maniacal guitar. During a time when many noise and electronic musicians are downsizing to laptops and minimal improvisation, it's refreshing to hear an outfit that has littletono appreciation for respectable expectations. "}