{"label":" 1968!","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3254/homepage_large.b4ffbde5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Flamin' Groovies","title":"Sneakers EP","text":" Before The Flamin' Groovies became the perpetually struggling epitome of brawling, tunedout rock 'n' roll songwriting supremacy, they were just perpetually struggling teenage rockers in a world that had suddenly gone all mod again. In the late 60s, an apostropheless Groovies was fending for its life amidst the roving psychopaths, hallucinations, and trampled corpses of San Francisco. When the more popular drugs made you whisper to invisible snowqueens and crumple into fetuslike stupors for days on end, there was no place for California's loneliest Elvisloving, hormoneinjected, primordial punk freaks.Underrated, but undeterred, the band (fronted by Roy Loney and guitarist Cyril Jordan) hobbled together a couple thousand dollars in 1968 and selfreleased their debut a sevensong, 17minute 10inch called Sneakers and waited for the throngs of sunglassesworshiping teenage girls. To no avail. When you call your band the Flamin' anythings, there is an intrinsic contract drawn up with the listener. In return for the listener's undivided attention, the Flamin' band henceforth must muster snarling, leathering pinnacles of claustrophobically entwined guitar riffs and brutally overwrought vocals. At this early stage, the band simply couldn't quite contend with the ambition of its name. Nevertheless, they did come bearing three guitars, knowledge of every genre since the 20s, and enough cigarettes to fill their gloriously tight pants tenfold.It was apparently ammunition enough to forge one truly great song. \"Golden Clouds\" begins with all the brio of a tempest and recedes into a smacking barband rhythm as Loney ends every line with a twanged warble he flagrantly copped from every Sun Records song he'd ever heard. If that musty analogy is going to be brought up, let's do another one: If the Groovies performing on Teenage Head and Flamingo were the American Rolling Stones, \"Golden Clouds\" is the British Rolling Stones. It's perhaps the single greatest defense of blatant plagiarism ever recorded.Confusingly, then, the rest of Sneakers makes for some of the most willfully diverse stylization in the Groovies' repertoire. \"The Slide\" is sung with such smoothness and schmaltz that Loney sounds like he's auditioning for The Drifters. \"Prelude in A Flat to Afternoon of a Pud\" could qualify as circus jazz with its chugging harmonica and gallivanting guitar. The most surprising element is the band's penchant for 20s and 30s burlesque. The inflection on \"Love Time\" and \"Babes in the Sky\" is alternately leisurely cabaret or a flapper dance. They may be gimmicks (along with the bluegrass \"My Yada\"), but they're gimmicks that are played fast enough, filthily enough, or tight enough to clearly be the work of a band that was about to hit its prime. How could a song with the line, \"LOV spells 'love time'\" be anything less than an ignorant rock riot masterpiece?For added value, The Rockfield Sessions have been tacked on to this reissue. Thus, a forced condensation of the band's trajectory: Got signed by Epic, released one great record, got dropped by Epic, toured with the MC5 and The Stooges, released two sellallyourposessionsandbuy1,000copies records, fell apart in a pit of despair and anger, and, like all great bands, went to fix their lives in Europe. Always a bad idea.Loney was out, Chris Wilson was in, and the band set up in Rockfield studios in Wales with neo50s rocker Dave Edmunds as producer. The Rockfield Sessions is four covers and three originals, and it just might be the best rock album of '72. After the goofily adolescent Sneakers, the springing brass accretion of \"Married Woman\" screams sophisticated ingenuity. It's everything you need in a rock song: the nonchalant vocals of a true rebel, lecherous lyrics, and a bashing band that chars itself into slow, circuitous remains by the song's end. This might be the worst song of the bunch, and it still slides its way into the hall of fame. Condolences should be given to Chuck Berry, The Beatles, Jerry Lee Lewis, and all those other founders of modern music; the simple fact of the matter is that the covers of \"Get a Shot of Rhythm & Blues\", \"Little Queenie\" and \"Tallahassee Lassie\" are likely the best out there. \"Little Queenie\", in particular, starts with dusty metal inertia and whips into a frantic strut with that \"go, go!\" chorus. It's sort of like all of Reefer Madness condensed into three minutes and pumped into your blood.The Groovies' original songs are somewhat perplexing in this company, eschewing the shredded majesty of 50s rock 'n' roll in favor of smoother production and slower, more elegant melodies. The individual songs barely need to be mentioned because most of them later appeared on 1976's power pop classic, Shake Some Action, and they've been venerated and covered by everyone from The Dictators to Yo La Tengo. \"Slow Death\"'s cowboy menace bends and slides over absurdly depressing lyrics. It's suicide with handclaps and a \"yeah, yeah\" chorus. \"Shake Some Action\" is the definition of a hastily defined genre known as fatiguerock; the lyrics weakly try to rattle the singer's stultified weariness. There is simply no way to deny the cool simplicity of a lyric like, \"I will find a way/ To get to you someday,\" particularly when it's choired and on top of the thin line between selfannihilation and euphoria. Somehow, the Groovies even mined this desolation to find one of the best prancing arenarock choruses to ever grace a record.It's difficult to tell whether the mixes from this session actually differ all that much from the ones on Shake Some Action or whether it just feels that way in the context of the old rock standards. Regardless, the sequencing of The Rockfield Sessions shows that the transition from juvenile early punk to pop maestros was not quite as sudden as it seemed. That said, two of the seven songs are familiar to any Shake Some Action enthusiast, and \"Slow Death\" is probably familiar to everyone else whether they're conscious of it or not. Still, The Rockfield Sessions is as good a place as any to start a budding Groovies infatuation, as it marries their early grime and later tunefulness in one of the essential expatriate rock sessions of our times. That alone, however, isn't a reason to seek out this record. Instead, perhaps consumers should focus on how it's the best sevenside single ever released. True, in the context of the immaculate songwriting and professionalism of The Rockfield Sessions, the bizarrely added Sneakers can't help but seem inessential. Still, this is more the fault of the former than the latter. Pretty much any album you paired with The Rockfield Sessions would end up sounding inferior. "}