{"label":" Global Symphonic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13425/homepage_large.a93b1796.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Frog Eyes","title":"The Bloody Hand","text":" An opening phrase like \"silver gnomes all in my dome\" could signify the start of a game of D&D; or a record of progressive rock or, well, maybe Carey Mercer clearing his syrupy throat. Frog Eyes shouldn't be accused of frontloading their releases, but even without conjuring gnomes and cups filled with blood, their openers shine extravagantly bright. The Bloody Hand's \"Sound Travels From the Snow to the Dark\" alchemically transforms David Bowie's \"Spaceman\" into an earthy power ballad, and The Golden River is jumpstarted by \"One in Six Children Will Flee in Boats\", an acoustictobaroque dustpan anthem.Since The Bloody Hand, Frog Eye's 2002 debut, Mercer's brainy Ziggy StardustmeetsWhere the Wild Things Are sound has proven maddeningly inspired. Mercer attacks each syllable in his gothic libretto with such gusto that even if he wasn't saying anything interesting his exuberance would still be enough to draw a crowd. Lucky for those of us who dig language, he doesn't halfstep; in fact, unpacking his dark, fantastical scenery and swampstomp poetry requires close reading and, perhaps, a working knowledge of Latin.I'm not saying anything new: Mercer, along with drummer Melanie Campbell, bassist Mike Rak, and keyboardist Grayson Walker, have been an established force for a few years, gaining a wider audience with 2004's less magical The Folded Palm. Still, you get the feeling that for many, the Victoria, B.C. quartet remains no more than a name dropped by Wolf Parade when its members are asked to list their favorite contemporary musicians. As Daniel Johnston or the Vaselines know, a ringing endorsement from a younger, more popular artist can draw new listeners, which is just one of a dozen or so reasons why it's nice to have these early, hard to find but absolutely essential albums reissued by Absolutely Kosher. And man, did they ever bring them back with triplefat style.If you consider yourself a longtime diehard, keep reading, because there's more than enough extra material appended to make old friends shine like new. Showing an attention to detail, the label and band decided to place a 30second pause before the bonus tracks on each album this way, theory goes, the extras seem selfcontained and not like a runon sentence.Anyhow, once The Golden River's 11 tracks end, 12 additional songs more than double the listening experience. The reinforcements were culled from the \"Emboldened Navigator\" 7\" (originally out on Brooklyn's excellent Soft Abuse label) and a wonderfully raw, previously unreleased recording session with Wolf Parade/Sunset Rubdown's Spencer Krug on keyboards.Steelyeyed completists will note that The Bloody Hand's \"The Fruit That Fell From the Tree\" is here as \"The Fruit That Ate Itself\" in homage to the Modest Mouse oldie. Take a gander at the gruff, pokier version of the aforementioned \"One in Six Children Will Flee In Boats\" (from The Golden River): Its crackles are lofi and pretty until Mercer sharpens his surroundings. \"Libertatia's National Lullaby\", a melancholic distorto/springreverb closer, is another repeat. Parsing every minor repetition or hiccup requires a flow chart (mine's been kept in glittery crayon), so you can do the math on the rest of that.While reviewing Sunset Rubdown's LP, I deflected the Krug/Mercer comparisons, but it's increasingly difficult to let them slide. Not only does The Golden River reinscribe the Krug session, but instrumental track \"A Song Once Mine Now No Longer Mine\" shows up on Sunset Rubdown's debut as \"Sol's Song\". Then, more obviously, there's \"Spencer's Song For Carey to Officially Sing\" and the new Canadian supergroup Swan Lake, in which the two are joined by Destroyer's Dan Bejar. Critical difference: Like Krug, Mercer has one of those voices. Unlike Krug, his backup band doesn't always sweep it occasionally gargles. The more staid backing band calls for more acrobatics in a singer's delivery as a wise Pitchfork staffer put it, Krug acts like a monster, Mercer, in fact, is one. A humane monster, of course, like John Gardner's Grendel.The newfangled version of The Bloody Hand is just as jammed. Here, it's buffered by Seagulls Is on the Rise, the until now unreleased sophomore album from Mercer and bassist Mike Rak's preFrog Eyes band, the Blue Pine. The material feels a bit aimless, less distinguished, and is generally mellower than Frog Eyes. There are compelling moments, though, like the Jarvis Cockerlike crooning on \"Buttercup\", the papershredding guitar solo on \"Tyranny of Sight and Tyranny of Seeing\", and the stuckinquicksand and sloshed on whiskey powersad closer \"Before They Was Killed in a Car Crash\", which goes out with some fullon psychedelic, hurricane noise. (Tellingly, a few tracks before it is \"Drinking: The Song\").Whatever the peaks and valleys, these freshfaced reissues were intended both as a buildup for Frog Eyes' next fulllength as well as a way to bring the original trilogy (as Mercer views it) to a definitive close. They succeed in providing the latter, but according to sources close to the band, album four, Tears of the Valedictorian, has been pushed back until early 2007. Please, though, no worries: Until then, there's a 19minute singlesong EP forthcoming on the Spanish label Acuarela and, more substantially, these superstocked reissues. "}