{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3919/homepage_large.cc72435f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Hurst","artist":"Hella","title":"Bitches Ain't Shit But Good People EP","text":" Travis: Alright, dude, here's what we got: two EPs by these Hella fuckkers. Guitaranddrums duo from Sacramento... don't we know these guys?Aaron: Yeah, 'cos I think they're playing some shows with Your Enemies Friends.Travis: Nice title on that first EP there, chief.Aaron: Hold up. Most of the tracks on both EPs have funny titles, also. \"Ho's in the House\"? \"PostIvy League Depression\"? Are these some highbrow dorks trying to lick the collective Buddyhead gooch or something? Is it any good?Travis: Fuck yeah, Axl's losin' his mind on this shit already.Aaron: But dude, I don't know... instrumentals? I thought them Chicago postrock pussies kinda killed that scene. Instrumental rock needs an enema.Travis: Have you heard this, bruh? Fuck that mathequation rock. I don't know these Spencer Seim and Zach Hill guys very well, but this aggroprognoise shit they're doing is raw.Aaron: Yeah, this Zach guy's drumming is the shit. Have you heard the title song on Bitches Ain't Shit? The drum track sounds like programming from one of those pretentious Euro \"electronic artists.\" I'd rather eat Kelly Osbourne's burger than listen to that.Travis: All his shit is live, tho. Dude must have gigantic, hairy gorilla balls.Aaron: Indeed. I'm totally stoked on Spencer's guitar on \"Rich Kid\". It goes from straightup shred to weird ambient noodling. Axl's tripping. Are you sure this wasn't done on a computer?Travis: Naw, dude, he's just reppin for the ring modulator. I'm digging the stuttering guitar leads on \"D. Elkan Sings Republic of Rough and Ready\", too. An' it's got vocals. This is a little more typical indierock kinda stuff. Those Pitchfork wieners will dig this.Aaron: Sounds like he's been hitting the pipe with that Modest Mouse dude.Travis: It's a different version of a track off their first album, Hold Your Horse Is. I think it works better without the vocals.[CD changer skips to next disc]Aaron:Uhoh. I think they're using electronics on this Total Bugs Bunny thing.Travis: Aaron, wtf dude, chill the fuck out, man. It's not the total kiss of death.Aaron: Look what it did to Axl.Travis: You got a point. [pause] The drummer's still doing those whackedout polyrhythms on \"Your DJ Children\". It's a little dancey for my taste. Bummer.Aaron: \"PostIvy League Depression\" sounds kinda like gay electronic jazz. This is dangerously close to pissing me off.Travis: \"Koko B. Ware\"... wasn't he the fauxCaribbean wrestler with the parrot? This shit's tite, for sure, tho the guitar sounds like a Nintendo game. I heard dude's got a side project called The Advantage that only plays tunes from old 8bit games.Aaron: Killer. I bet Vince Vaughn would suck these guys' dicks. I saw that kid at Daddy's and I think he's railing the Rainer Maria chick. Dude gets mad vag.Travis: I'm gonna pass this Hella shit onto Gary Gersh. My corporate pals always give me lots of free schwag when I tell 'em what the hot new indie shit is. Dipshits.[CD stops]Travis: So what're you feeling on this one? I think Axl's stoked about this Bitches Ain't Shit EP.Aaron: Yeah yeah, album title of the year, certainly, but I don't know about this Total Bugs Bunny jive I mean, I think Axl would rather sit in his room gackingout than listen to this more than a couple of times.Travis: I'm feeling you on that one, brah, but Axl could stand to take in a bit of Hella's nutswinging on Bitches Ain't Shit.Aaron: Don't worry 'bout Axl, m'man. They might've pulled the plug on Chinese Democracy, but he'll rebound.Travis: Get in the ring, bitch.Aaron: Ha ha ha ha.Travis: Ha ha ha ha. "}