{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3922/homepage_large.59a49adb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Hella","title":"Church Gone Wild/Chripin' Hard","text":" Sometimes the best way to succeed in music is by pretending you're already the biggest band in the world. Hella, a Sacramento guitar/drums duo whose music elicited little more than a shoulder shrug and a \"meh\" from most listeners, confidently put the cart before the horse with Church Gone Wild/Chirpin' Hard. Borrowing the Speakerboxxx/The Love Below format, the epic doublesolo album is the band's third and most extensive fulllength, capturing virtuosos Zach Hill and Spencer Seim at their creative and technical apex. So Zach's got Church, Spencer has Chirpin', and the two albums couldn't steer freakout rock in more disparate directions. Seim's crowning moments thrive on electropop/noise synergy; as a result, Church feels a bit homogenous and redundant when juxtaposed to Chirpin' which is no surprise considering Hill initially composed the disc as one hourlong song. Still, on numbers like \"I'm Quitting the Cult\" and \"Wish I Never Saw a White Man\", Hill's metronome goes haywire as he pulverizes the skins at Mach speed, a change of pace from other tracks on which he merely bludgeons them at 220 bpm. To top it off, Hill throws in fuzzedout vox, hellraising guitar sounds, chilling church organ, and any other instrument appropriate for the apocalypse. Seim's response? A soundtrack for a chaotic NES game that never existed. The parttime Advantage drummer uses that band's covers as prototypes for his own twisted form of Nintendorock. Chirpin' employs Hella's traditionally linear song sequencing to enhance the disc's narrative quality. Opener \"Gold Mine, Gold Yours\" is exactly the song I'd expect after pushing the NES power button, \"Famnail\" conjures up that impossibly long level I could never beat, and \"Home on the Arrange\" menaces like so many Mega Man bosses. Even more impressive is Seim's channeling of NES pathos; just as Bowser simultaneously appears intimidating and ridiculous, Seim's songwriting evokes a healthy balance of fear and lightheartedness. And oh yeah, those 8bit beeps and squelches are mostly acoustic instruments slickly altered to resemble digital sine waves. Naturally, the doublealbum's peaks occur when both members' ideas intersect. \"Song From Uncle\" fuses Church's proactive percussion with Seim's buoyant songwriting. Likewise, Seim's guitar playfully mimics Hill's nihilistic vocals on \"Imaginary Friends\", Church's closest stab at melody. With these moments, Hella back up their ambition with impressive amounts of ingenuity and elbow grease, creating a White Album for disgruntled Gen Xers still finding solace in shoeboxes full of NES cartridges.  "}