{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3924/homepage_large.f40dee31.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Hella","title":"Concentration Face/Homeboy","text":" You can say one thing for Hella's Zach Hill and Spencer Heim: They're all about abundance. Just months after their generous twodisc set Church Gone Wild/ Chirpin' Hard, the duo have dropped yet another mammoth package on your doorstep: Concentration Face, the group's first live DVD, which contains a whopping three hours of footage from Hella's 2004 Japanese tour, as well as the Homeboy EP, which features four new blasts of the duo's distinctive spazzrock mayhem. Directed by Ryan Walker Thomas, the Concentration Face DVD is divided roughly into two halves: The first is a standard, closelyedited tour film following Hella from city to city; the second presents a complete live set recorded in Tokyo. Both halves are packed with the duo's explosive instrumental music, and feature remarkably little in the way of stage banter or dialogue. As such, the collection makes no effort to introduce either of the two musicians as personalities, instead focusing resolutely on capturing Hella's fierce live show, a choice that seems rather debatable given the duo's static, minimal stage production. On record Hella have grown increasingly reliant on Nintendoinspired electronic textures, but here they spend the bulk of their time in full metallic shredder mode, facing each other down like a couple of longlost, hyperadrenalized Van Halen brothers, while their attentive Japanese audiences stand and vibrate politely. For casual fans, the first half of Concentration Face will prove to be the more compelling, as it intersperses this live concert footage with a montage of Japanese city scenes, train rides, and children's television shows. The band also unselfishly includes excerpts from the sets of supporting acts like Ari Morimoto and M.A.G.O., some of whom prove intriguing enough to nearly upstage the headliner. Throughout the disc, one can't help but marvel at Hella's insane chops, and the relentless ferocity of drummer Hill in particular. It's obviously music of extreme physical demands, a point emphasized by a segment that depicts a sweatdrenched Hill examining his kit after a show, looking as though he and the entire area had just been soaked with a firehose. After more than an hour of such footage, however, the concert that comprises the DVD's second half might seem a tad redundant. Drawing heavily from 2002's Hold Your Horse Is, Hella pummel the likes of \"Cafeteria Bananas\" and \"Biblical Violence\", their sound a repetitive, delirious blur of fingertapped fretboards and stampeding hoofbeats. Essentially presented as a realtime event, for some reason they've gone so far as to even retain several lengthy pauses between songs while the duo quietly tinker with their equipment, an inclusion that does little to relieve the set's advancing monotony.  Such is Concentration Face's bountiful overkill that the 29minute, four song Homeboy seems positively miniature in comparison. Roiling opener \"Gothspel For You Not Them\" is one continuous discordant crescendo, while the choppy \"Madonna Approaches R&B; Blonde Wreckages\" adds loopy keyboard tones for a brief swirl of Playstationprog. The short set closes with the perfectly titled \"If I Were in Hella I Would Eat Lick\", a track of ridiculous density that, as with the best moments on Concentration Face, reveals Hill and Seim's almost telepathic interplay, an intense connection that can make them seem oblivious to the presence of an audience. And as Homeboy illustrates, the twosome might just be at their most effective when, for once, they're able to exercise a little portion control.  "}