{"label":" Luna","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4042/homepage_large.33a2a442.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"The Impossible Shapes","title":"Bless the Headless","text":" These guys might hail from Bloomington, Indiana, near the heart of Middle America, and they might have band ties to Songs: Ohia's Jason Molina, the midwest's unofficial blue collar songwriting spokesperson, but when I listen to each of The Impossible Shapes' 2003 releases, I get twofold British vibes. Lead vocalist/principal songwriter Chris Barth channels an austere lyrical sensibility that harkens back to the best of England's Romantic Period poets, and We Like It Wild, the more cohesive and accomplished statement of the two records, finds the band running their psychedelictofolkpop gamut in effortless stride; the sound often bleeds true British Invasion. Previous releases have drawn comparisons to the Elephant 6 collective, Pavement, and Robert Pollard, but their sound has yet to remain stagnant long enough to really pin it down to any map or timetable. If anything, their closest contemporaries range from the quirky indiesmart jangle pop of Versus to the sweeping pastoral and rustic tones of the Fruit Bats.The Shapes' continued evolution is manifest in the disparity between the shifty Bless the Headless and the conditioned We Like It Wild; the first finding release in March and the latter in October. Perhaps the only connective ligaments are the band's reluctance to settle into any scripted role, and Barth's affinity for serene, vernal poetics and autumnal imagery. Both albums are rife with lyrical references to rolling hills, trees, creeks, dirty knees and breezes, and delivered in direct couplets or simply rhymed tercets. A spiritual, almost ritual, awareness of mortality along with meditative accounts of pastoral tranquility bedaub the Spartan narratives though the fairytale fever that sweats through Bless the Headless is a bit shiftier, paralleling the less vigilant song structures of the album.\"Play with Me\" restlessly jerks its way through an octagonal pop structure, epitomizing the band's quirky and amorphous arrangements. As playful as its namesake, the song shifts and spins through several enchanting melodies and polyrhythmic beats. Either a subdued rocker or an ambitious dirge, carried by subtly propulsive drum timings and rhythmic guitars, it manages to center itself with a unique immediacy and vision. \"Bathing Swans\", with a bit more of a jambent, comes in with \"Love is here and hope is gone/ We must cry for the bathing swans.\" It's distinctively Wordsworthian (or even Blakelike) in tone, as are much of both albums' lyrical stylings. Album highlights include the multiplicities of \"Good to Lie\" and \"A Final Feast Forever\", a daring carnivalesque pop number with a beautiful crescendo of melody, keys and percussion. Also, \"Always the Way\" turns on a dime from pinpoint melody to aimless meandering, and succeeds unqualifiably in the process. However, their more spacey and digressive numbers (\"Kids Need Clerks\", \"The Line So Flexible\") too often recall a basementjam band.The songs on We Like It Wild are more focused and fully realized. \"Give Me a Note\" limps in with a Velvet Undergroundflavored murky, rainsoaked serenity. \"The Perfect Timing\", host to a guitar line similar to postmillennial Built to Spill, begins a set of expertly crafted pop songs, sometimes riding bareback galloping rhythms, and sometimes toeing the line with crisp, jangled guitar lines. \"Sharing Our Space\" delightfully showcases Barth's fey voice over a lively rhythm on a multitracked vocal melody and lines such as, \"I turn away glad, glory be/ And be blessed to befriend a sugar tree/ Sharing our space aligned,\" before giving way to a tastefully keyadorned instrumental outro. \"Two Be Wild\", a more subdued song with serene acoustics, sits patiently in the middle of the album with understatement as an anchor, and finally, \"Lovers Living Uphill\", the closer, lets loose but reigns itself back in with a gorgeous propulsive melody that settles from a dust cloud of instrumental indulgence. The rest of the record is mostly fit with variegated structures within any single track, but the songs rarely lose control as they sometimes did on Bless the Headless. Shifty, nervous, and relentless, each track packs its own reward, and many are carried on the strength of the aforementioned British Invasion guitardriven bent.In all, We Like It Wild better frames The Impossible Shapes' structural wanderlust, and pockets several more linear arrangements to buoy the end result. Truly, selecting a weak track could prove relatively laborious. If the band has a weakness, it's likely the lack of true depth or grit: the album runs a similar course to The Shins' Chutes Too Narrow but can't carry an emotional load as heavy. Though all finely balanced, their mercurial song structures rarely claw deep enough to grow roots; a gentle breeze, a quick sneeze, a lit match, and they're gone. But despite its ephemeral beauty, We Like It Wild is a formidable accomplishment and solid effort throughout. If you smoke IndieLites, and have a taste for this sort of thing, you might consider switching brands. "}