{"label":" Elektra","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4050/homepage_large.5b2c184e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Incredible String Band","title":"Incredible String Band","text":" I guess I'm gonna take it up with Malkmus. When he was doing millennial Mogwai promo at Matador, he decided to lay it all on the line and proclaim the Incredibles the \"greatest band of all time.\" Of course it followed that Mogwai were \"the greatest band of the next millennium,\" so take each decree as you will...Regardless, the hungry dogs of hipsterdom were loosed on the Incredible String Band, and every dusty copy of The Big Huge even the wretched No Ruinous Feud was snatched up for worship. Elders like Robert Plant and John Lennon championed them in the past, and Boston folksters got with them in the eighties, but their status came back to the fore recently, as No Neck Blues Band and Avey Tare & Geologist attached the ISB's streamofconscious meanderings to their noisy blurts. Oneida even named a song after the group's girlfriends Rose and Licorice (a song since covered by Liars).As you delve into these Renaissance Fair backwaters, be wary: not all hold the same mystical powers of whimsy. Favorites of thespian types that call each other \"Lord\" or \"M'lady\" on their threeday weekends, the Incredibles pack a twee wallop into their fey tunes, enough to make Donovan or even Belle & Sebastian seem like leatherclad teddy boys. It can be overwhelming to say the least. Once you're stoned on it though, their peak output from '67 to '69, when 5000 Spirits, Hangman's Beautiful Daughter, Wee Tam and The Big Huge were released pours forth like the nectar of the gods (fairground slang for a keg of Olympia). There's nothing quite like their fairydusted folk, blending disparate twines of mystical musings and quirky, naïf instrumentation on a whim. These two reissues straddle that enchanted era, serving as bookends: before the Summer of Love and after going 'clear' with L. Ron Hubbard.Their first offering, from 1966, finds them still staid in their English folk roots. Springing from the same scene as future British Isles legends like John Renborn, Bert Jansch, and Shirley Collins, the group works as a trio, with soontobedeparted Clive Palmer pitching in for a number or two. Strange as their folk may seem, heavy with flute trills, nasal croons, and flatpicked strings, it's not ISB's strong suit, and their trad material \"Schaeffer's Jig\", \"Whistle Tune\" and \"Niggertown\" (\"dusted with laughter powder\" as the notes say, those sick fucks) are tepid at best. To spice things up, and stay way ahead of the academic multiculti curve, they dash bits of Bulgarian and Indian exotic fare into their songs. Incredible String Band is a bit incongruous, but within two short years, the group would effortlessly weave in and out of all the world's music, with the deftest, dreamlike ease.The Dylan inclinations are a bit by the numbers as well, but that's expected with most singersongwriters of the age; the most interesting aspect of this album is that it documents the nascent stylings of Robin Williamson and Mike Heron as they find their respective voices. Williamson's romanticism is abundant (but vague) in \"Womankind\", and his keening voice expands and contracts along with his strumming style, both coming as easily as mantrabreath. From such a seed arose the very beautiful, personal \"First Girl I Loved\" (covered by both Judy Collins and Jackson Browne), and at full blossom, the feminineuniverse sprawl of \"Maya\", from The Big Huge.Mike Heron's tunes follow along the same lines of natural growth. \"The Tree\" reveals his selfinduced penchant for \"communing\" with Nature, capriciously talking to her, and her to he; this figment of fancy grows to include all the other little animals of the forest, on the cute and curious \"Hedgehog Song\" off of The 5000 Spirits, and perhaps the Incredible's finest recorded moment, the folkform phagocytosis of \"A Very Cellular Song\". Neither songwriter is quite there yet, but they both lay groundwork in earnest.Liquid Acrobat as Regards the Air is on the other side of the ISB bell curve, five years on, when their moment has already passed, on a slippery slope downhill. All alchemical incantations are of precarious balance: Acrobat is just a pinch or so off the mark, but it makes a crucial difference for the internal chemistry at work. Tensions have mounted between the two main songwriters, Heron leaning toward psychedelic rock, and Williamson trying to weave more theatricality into his compositions. The lineup has changed, the girlfriends are gone, and everyone's playing headgames. It's no Fleetwood Mac melodrama, but there's some audible discomfort.Williamson's \"Talking of the End\" is a promising opener, a five minute showcase of what he does best and most brilliantly, contrasting cringeworthy musical elements and synthesizing them into something holistic and magical. He effortlessly glides from gypsy violin to Eastern Liturgical mass choir, then into some tambourine slap over a sitar solo before stirring in a dash of boygirl folk levitation, with countrified yelps and pedal steel. It somehow coheres into the record's grandest moment, a meditation on imminent apocalypse and the intimate personal bonds between two people.If only it were all so effortless, so unforced, but it's apparent the group is grasping at straws, hoping for the natural gold that once came so easy. Liquorice guests on a song her first appearance in over six albums but it's obvious why she was relegated to harmonic duties: her voice is watery by itself, wavering in a thick brogue on \"Cosmic Boy\". They bring in a full drum kit for \"Painted Chariot\", but it's mild, stumbling rock, with an organum interlude plopped in the middle for continuity. \"Evolution Rag\" is downright awful, a funk fueled by mandolin plucks before it devolves into a bog of kazoo, slide whistle, and rollerrink organ twaddle. The weaving of three traditional jigs and one Williamson bit for \"Jigs\" shows they could still draw upon their roots, but ISB seem estranged from so recent a past. They dig up Mike Heron's \"Tree\" from the first album, but it's a halfhearted attempt to redress the song in a new swathing of piano, mandolin, and bazouki.The Incredibles' true talent was sprawl, songs that spiraled into the doubledigit mark, like \"Maya\", \"Ducks on a Pond\", or my personal favorite, \"Creation\". The ISB's incantations have more time to take hold in these cases, but it a shame to find \"Darling Belle\" the elevenminute finale of Liquid Acrobat as Regards the Air is cut of the same cloth as the disastrous double album of musical theatre, 1970's U. Each member has a vague recitation, a part to play, but nothing coheres until the very end of the failed piece, when the band is briefly beautiful, like the cover photograph: halfobscured in the dark, wandering lost in the countryside, indistinguishable.Blame it on a poor outing at Woodstock, on rising membership fees for Scientology (look what it did to Chick Corea and Travolta!). Blame it on parting ways with labels and longtime producer Joe Boyd, on the tantric dissolution when Rose left the group, but the magic summoned by the Incredible String Band in the late 60s quickly abandoned them. These two reissues play like dashed, crumbling relics, only hinting at what the ISB were capable of in their prime. Anyone intrigued by their legend should look instead to what transpired between these two releases, when they may have deserved the title \"the greatest band of all time.\" "}