{"label":" Too Pure","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5122/homepage_large.8495b5f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Mclusky","title":"Mcluskyism","text":" To be honest, I never really thought Mclusky had much of a chance. Given that most indie rock seems predicated upon being either deeply fucked up (see: Xiu Xiu, Smog, Shellac), or prettydarnednice (see: everyone else), there isn't much room to be...just kind of a jerk. If, as my friend Raf has suggested, bands like the Jesus Lizard, Big Black, and Brainiac make up a de facto subgenre of \"evil indie rock,\" Mclusky could be best be classified as \"asshole indie rock\" direct, obnoxious, and unapologetic. On this 3xCD retrospective, the nowdefunct Welsh trio offers up an excellent CD of the band's singles and two discs of subpar Bsides and rarities and live tracks, cramming together the band's very best and very worst material into one awkward and probably excessive package.Disc one features most of Mclusky's best songs; because it's a singles collection, a few of the necessarily omitted album tracks are missed, but there are zero duds. The formula here is straightforward and selfevident: crunchy guitars, booming drums, fuzzed out bass, and Andy Falkous's curiously expressive singscream. Given the relative consistency of Mclusky's sound, the strength of these particular songs comes down to hooks. At their best, Mclusky can turn something as simple as a tuneless twosyllable utterance into a songcarrying hook. In a nutsandbolts way, it's a skillful and economical manipulation of rhythm and momentum, but the xfactor is attitude. Like the douchebag at the bar whose obnoxious antics you secretly cherish, the giddy, petty belligerence conjured by Mclusky is infectious.A few of the better songs from the band's roughandtumble debut My Pain and Sadness Is More Sad and Painful Than Yours get the Asides disc off to a promising start, but things really pick up with the selections from Mclusky's finest album, Mclusky Do Dallas. \"Whoyouknow\", \"Lightsabre Cocksucking Blues\", \"To Hell With Good Intentions\", and \"Alan Is a Cowboy Killer,\" are taut, merciless, and concise, perfectly captured by Steve Albini's similarly taut, merciless, and concise production. The nonalbum single \"There Ain't No Fool in Ferguson\" is my favorite here, coupling a television commercialcatchy guitar line with playful alliteration to the tune of \"hopeless hepatitis pissrag Molotov cocktail monobrow shithole.\"And then there are the other discs. Compilations like this are always a nowin situation: If the Bsides eclipse the Asides, then the band clearly has no idea how to gauge their own material, and effectively sold short their own career. If the Bsides fall substantially short of the Asides, then compiling them is potentially unnecessary. In this case, the Bsides sound like much shittier versions of the Asides. So, at the very least, Mclusky should be commended for putting their best foot forward. Surprisingly, the third disc of rarities and live performances socalled \"Csides\" proves more rewarding than its alphanumeric predecessor, showing a more versatile and unchecked side of the band.As is usually the case with these things, the threedisc version of Mcluskyism works better as an archive than it does a unified listening experience. Diehards, I'm sure, would love to include a choice \"Cside\" like \"Colour March\" or \"Cradling\" on a mix CD, but most people will find the condensed version of Mcluskyism to be just right. At one disc, it's a gleeful kick in the ribs. At three, it's a slightlyharderthanappropriate punch in the arm. "}