{"label":" Broken Sparrow","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1168/homepage_large.5bbe3f27.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Nat Baldwin","title":"Lights Out","text":" It may be the norm to pour out your feelings over an acoustic guitar, but that's not enough for Nat Baldwin: He sings over a doublebass, which he plays with raw, lonely intensity. At its worst, that bass evokes the beast that every scrawny, neatly kempt one of us feels in our guts when our soontobeex refuses to answer the phone. Lights Out, Baldwin's debut minialbum, feels like one desparate night alone, and if it were a minute longer it would be unbearable. A member of Newburyport, Massachusetts' Tigersaw, Baldwin regularly performs solo, and although this record uses some overdubs, it sounds live and intimate. Baldwin's croon a pure, clear tone with a discomforting waver evokes Thom Yorke's anxiety or Andrew Bird's eerier solo performances, and the album's ambience reminds me of Nina Nastasia's gothic Americana: Like Nastasia, Baldwin turns in a chamber performance that butts against the void. On the eight songs that he penned for Lights Out, Baldwin takes alltoofamiliar impulses and stretches them to desparate conclusions. For example, the rote \"don't leave me\" lyrics of \"Goodbye\" come out as a primal moan, while his bow jolts against the strings like a highstrung heartbeat. Throughout the album, he tries to keep his vocals on an even keel as if he's just an observer to the intensity that comes out of the bass like he can step back and ask if this is what it's like to become a stalker. That keeps up through almost the entire 20 minutes, until the last song, a spent ditty that basically just gives you a minute to breathe. Although this is technically an EP, it feels complete, and exhausting. In fact, it makes me curious what Baldwin would do on a fulllength record. Aside from a couple of guest singers, he performs this one alone, and it would be intriguing to see where he could go with a band or how he would sound across a wider emotional range. After all, he got through this album; what happens the next morning? "}