{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4948/homepage_large.76b59ad5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"M83","title":"Don't Save Us From the Flames","text":" M83 occupies a summerskysized space between dance music, electropop, indie rock, and ambient, and this vastness is well suited to the long player format: Saturate and inundate, goosebumps ensue. If M83's goal was to choose infectious singles that also render the album proper in miniature, they nailed it with \"Don't Save Us From the Flames\" and \"Teen Angst\", each of which distills the album's delirious crescendos and evocative lulls into concise packets.Don't Save Us From the Flames comes with two remixes and \"Until the Night Is Over\", an acoustic version of \"Night\" from their selftitled debut. Right after the panoramic drums, driving guitar, ecstatic synth trills, propulsive piano, and rapturous harmonies of the title track, \"Until the Night Is Over\" treats us to six minutes of lambent piano and M83's most negligible component the vocals. It's innocuously pleasant, but squanders a track that could've been better served by another remix. Boom Bip does a decent job of recasting \"Don't Save Us From the Flames\" as instrumental indiehop that would've fit right in on his own last album. He drizzles disassociated fragments of the source material into the back half, placing more emphasis on his tweaky mechanical drums, electronic squiggles, and tiny chimes, and his version seems more like a translation than a remix.It's Superpitcher's remix that extends this single's audience beyond diehard collectors. Grabbing it by each end and stretching it like electrotaffy for upwards of 10 minutes, Superpitcher isolates the individual parts of \"Don't Save Us From the Flames\", opening up the spaces between them so that each becomes a distinct rhythmic agent, and expertly deploys them in a tense arc. The song's lean twonote pulse and mammoth bass line ride a sultry house beat, and Anthony Gonzalez's voice shimmers in the air. The Interpolish bridge puts in a climactic appearance; ghost harmonies and guitar flourishes flit through the mix, and by keeping the track stark, spacious and incrementally shifting, Superpitcher creates an accurate exploded diagram with a sensual impact that belies its clinical tone.Teen Angst is rounded out by a nonalbum track and a remix by Montag (who should be intimately familiar with the source material, having composed most of M83's string arrangements). \"Addicted to SelfMutilation\" is a generous seven minutes of ballroom electrofuzz, a gorgeous if somewhat tepid wash of buried falsettos and midtempo, morphing incandescence. This is the M83 of wafting, blissedout sonics, not the sharp dynamic shifts of their singles, and it dovetails nicely with the Starsy neon pop of \"Teen Angst\". Montag ratchets the pingponging synths of the original down to a soupier growl, gives the vocals a little more breathing room, trims some overdrive off of the chorus, and drops some of his trademarked crystalline tones in the middle, but otherwise doesn't go very far in reimagining the track or revealing something about it that had been hidden, the way Superpitcher seems to illuminate the viscera of \"Don't Save Us from the Flames\".These two singles are clearly divided by their strengths and weaknesses. Both sport solid title tracks. Teen Angst features the better of the two new tracks available, but Don't Save Us From the Flames has far and away the best remix. M83 fanatics will want to pick up both; casual fans are advised to pick up one or the other (depending on whether studio tracks or remixes are more your speed), and everyone with ears should drop 99 cents at iTunes for the Superpitcher remix. "}