{"label":" United Dairies","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5789/homepage_large.de38e323.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"Nurse With Wound","title":"Salt Marie Celeste","text":" \"I slide all the way up and down my slit.\" Sorry, I'm trying to get as many quotes from \"Gusset Typing\" in here as possible. There are two \"supergenres\" the music review industry has conspired to cover up: barnyard sounds and porn star moans. From The Beatles and The Buzzcocks to The Orb and Datach'i, the induction of pastoral and lecherous sounds is to pop music what pastoral and lecherous people were to world history. Thankfully, they kept their distance from each other.Until now. Mark this godforsaken, genresplicing year down, because some entity has summoned the nihilistic gall to combine these two supergenres once and for all. I would like to invoke Nurse With Wound's Steven Stapleton here, but I'm a firm believer in respecting a demigod's name. \"I rest a fingertip on my clit.\" And yet, for the glorious, sunspeckled twenty minutes that are the unfathomable sequence of \"Chicken Concrete (For Missy E.)\" and the bastion of a billion epigrams, \"Gusset Typing\" (both from She and Me Fall Together in Free Death), Stapleton has supplied this very combination. \"I feel so hot inside in a wet, sticky way.\"But first, a quote not involving a ribald appendage in a ribald crevice. From Stapleton: \"I don't get reviewed, I don't get anyone writing to say what they thought about the music... it's weird, you put all this creativity into something and it just disappears...\" This is the very definition of a brave and ambitious Sisyphus (yeah, I said it). Unfortunately, it also defines a lack of quality control. The barrage of albums that compose the NWW discography is something no mortal could hope to tread upon. When placed in the appropriate context of a creativity that should by all accounts be entirely bankrupt, these three albums irrevocably prove that Stapleton is basically releasing every sound he's ever produced. \"My gussets bulge with fingers.\" I want to talk about Nurse With Wound's 1979 debut, A Chance Meeting on a Dissecting Table of a Sewing Machine and an Umbrella or 1982's landmark Homotopy to Marie in this part of the review, but, my god, I can already feel Stapleton unleashing even more albums. I'm falling behind. No time for organization or grammar. Keep your chin up. Stay afloat. We'll get through this.Okay. Salt Marie Celeste. One of the more minimalist pieces of NWW's ceaseless reign, this disc consists of a single 60minutelong track which is based a similar track Stapleton released last year on Sounds from the Horse Hospital. Its music, for the most part, is driven by cinematic, undulating waves of synths. I'm told that people like to use different music for different events. This is the music you'll listen to when shining a woefully inadequate flashlight in a strange cellar and finding a dead man with a harmonica. Oh, this situation doesn't happen that often? Yeah, and you won't listen to this album that often, either. \"Manipulating one finger into my wet groove.\" For the middle forty minutes of the piece, one of the most irritating noises ever committed to record maybe supposed to be a dead soul, but sounds like Rain Man's impression of sex. This would be interesting if it was one of those process works, and it may be one, but I don't know what the process is. Finally, in the last few minutes, Stapleton silences that MINDENERVATING RAIN MAN noise and hits the \"bubbling lava\" button. This is supposed to be innovative, ideologychallenging aestheticism, but it's also boring, even for minimalist music. It ends with a fade! Real experimental if you're The Beach Boys.Only two EPs have been released since you read that paragraph, and one was just a concert promo. She and Me Fall Together. Nine tracks, five songs. How is this possible? Solution: Stapleton is releasing music with such rapidity that some of it has been converted into energy. The titular song here is, I think, one of those postmodern, selfreflexive ironic jokes that are still sincere, like Devendra Banhart and prewar blues, or the Coen brothers and film noir. It's the mesmerizing Can percussion with an escalating guitar crunch, and superimposed on enough ambience to fill an art history student's portfolio. I feel inauthentic listening to it, like when I listen to 90s glam. It approaches true trounce when it dispenses with its frivolous beat and melody and starts eroding the chainsaw noise. The aforementioned barnyard and porn tracks follow. It's as if they injected some hens and pigs into an old radio, ducks turning into screeching doors, pigs into Morse code. Then the moaning, sex with bugs and injured dogs. Robot reading porn. \"My Red Hot Car\" without that lamentable \"music\" aspect. It's earnestly, pitiably, profoundly, bewilderingly a gimmick.The Musty Odour of Pierced Rectums. The only one that sounds exactly how NWW is supposed to sound: badgering, stinging metal, tempered with tape works. First track is the least rhythmic piece I've ever heard. I don't even possess an analogy, because I couldn't hold the squirming creature long enough to criticize it. Second track. Submarine, air and water bawling into the corridors, indistinguishable commands being barked, sirens, bouncing valves and spigots. Same motif as She and Me. Stapleton has gone interalbum on us again, manufacturing networks we're supposed to catalog on our NWW discography atlases. Track Seven is a malefic and abrasive din, but its main virtue consists of its length of fifteen seconds. Track Nine: eating an apple, then it rains, then he burps. I know this isn't criticism, but there's nothing on this track for me to consider. I just liked how it had its own track so it's easily accessible if I ever need it. Ladies love it.I can barely move my head now. There have been so many NWW albums released now that there's no room in my apartment for all of them. I've had to amputate both my legs and construct prosthetics out of the NWW packaging. Currently, half my body is NWW albums, and they're weighing me down. Please send this review to Steven Stapleton so he knows someone is listening and that only he can stall this flood. \"The sucking recess of my cunt to the nut of muscle that is my asshole.\" "}