{"label":" Chocolate Ind.","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6496/homepage_large.337def4c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"Ghislain Poirier","title":"Breakupdown","text":" Here's where I finally tell you about my 8th grade geography teacher, Brother Frederick*, who always told me to think of the Americas as the silhouette of a voluptuous woman, her tailbone sitting on Rio, the heft of her bosom curving toward the Pacific (flyass weave shaking out the Eastern seaboard). Did wonders when I got older and wasn't appalled by the Peru protruding below the waistline, but it didn't really give proper attention to the nape of her neck arching through Ghis' Montreal. With every DJ up and down that spine dedicated to the lady's Rio, the neck has been necklected (yep), but Poirier is certain to take care of all that. While bloggers stack paper blending JKwon's and Franz at bars, Ghis grinds up north on heartless bass to snap your neck and jack your body. Breakupdown, Ghis' proper album has no sweet nothings or singalongs: Frivolities have been ground to dust by Poirier's heavy fingers on what sounds to be three or four pads, at most, on his console. His apparent disdain for superfluous synth flourishes or multitracked instrumentation makes it seem as if he'd only ever heard music through a wall of mansized monitors. In his hands, Baltimore club becomes only its redlined drums. Hiphop is a muffled snare and rumbling bass. Crunk is a tempo. Dancehall and ragga, an overwhelming riddim. If a synth or sample appears whether it be buzzing strings or a hollow flute it is percussive, adding more depth to the cavernous beats. It's great for anyone who's listened to those genres and wondered why nerds (like me) fret over samples or parse lyrics. That's not to say Poirier is joyless, only that he's a minimalist. Instead of interpreting different styles, he distills them to their common elements, bass and drums, and avoids glitching them into intelligent dance music. As smart as his music is, Poirier seems most concerned with neckboning his listeners, giving the cokerap opponents something to rock in the whip. When he does allow room for a guest vocal, it's a Francophone (Omnikron, Seba), a Chicagoan toaster (DJ Collage of many a Klein record), London nongrime (Lotek HiFi), or Beans, none of whom steal the show from young Ghis. For those of us who rank majorlabel rap in our yearends, Ghislain has remixed a handful of recent favorites on his selfreleased Bounce le Remix (available for purchased download at http://www.ghislainpoirier.com). Here he applies his theory to them YingYang characters, Missy, M.I.A., Snoop, Dizzee, and Busta, among others, but it's really more about breaking down recent groundbreakers. Whether it's the Neptunes' \"Drop It Like It's Hot\" or Timbaland's \"Dirt Off Your Shoulder\", Poirier strips the body breaks to bare kick and snare. Even Mr. Collipark's \"Wait (The Whisper Song)\", an exercise in austerity, sounds naked in comparison. And I'll be damned if Ghis' version of Roots Manuva's \"Witness (1 Hope)\" isn't the best Roots Manuva song I've heard since the \"Walworth Road Rockers Dub\" remix of the same track. But the coup de grace on an album of graces has to be the unofficial Ghislain Poirier remix of \"Ice Ice Baby\". Now, I know time has turned this song and its creator into a joke, but this version, minus the infamous Queen sample, will hopefully convince many of the lyrical genius of Vanilla Ice. He was no gimmick! Stop snitchin'!*BroFred ended up quitting the cloth to sell vibrators, probably to smart girls who dance to YingYang but hate oppression. "}