{"label":" Quarterstick","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6537/homepage_large.91c13354.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Rachel's","title":"Systems/Layers","text":" The music made the world feel as if it was moving in slow motion, its every swell and ebb somehow attuned to the constantly scrolling scenery outside. Every blank stare and sleeping passenger seemed accounted for in the violin and piano counterpart, and even the monotonous, anonymous voice announcing \"now approaching... Western... Avenue...\" was invited to become a part of the music. In fact, it almost made the music better. Everyone gets to have a few transcendental moments like this in their life, and mine was made possible by Rachel's, the Louisville collective some might call neoclassical, others might call postrock, and I would call ambient.Systems/Layers is the band's fifth album, and it's a brilliant ambient musical experience you can tune it out if you choose and it'll still enhance your surroundings, or you can engage yourself fully and allow it to positively hypnotize you. I had it running through my big, cheap Koss headphones on Chicago's Metra commuter rail one morning, and it did just that. You might remember a Volkswagen commercial from a few years back where two people driving down a street notice everything synching up with the music they're listening to this was like that, only without such obvious signposts as a kickdrum and snare. Though virtually all of Systems/Layers possesses Rachel's characteristic modern chamber ensemble sound, there are dozens of field recordings and sampled voices that seep in around the edges, mostly drawn from source material sent to the band by friends and fans, and they serve to heighten the immediacy of the music and increase its sense of place. Virtually every song here conjures urban streets and dwellings, but each does so with a different set of sources: \"Wouldn't Live Anywhere Else\" takes the more obvious route, melding samples of ice cream trucks, children playing, people mumbling, birds, and sirens with the sparsest of drones, while \"Esperanza\", a gorgeous, entirely organic chamber piece, manages the same with strings and woodwinds. Rachel's cover some new ground here, too, particularly on the strange, percussive \"Reflective Surfaces\", which mimics Gamelan music with its interlocking rhythms and semimelodic contour. It's odd how well it fits amongst the rest of the songs here, but sure enough, the hypnotic effect of the rhythms draws it together with the chamber pieces. The band's singer/songwriter labelmate Shannon Wright lends her pipes to \"Last Things Last\", a snowswept dirge built on Grimes' sparse piano and Eve Miller's rich cello sawing. Like any of the other songs on the album, it's impressionistic in intent, and as such, it hangs in the air more like a scent than like music. Fans of Rachel's past work should make a concerted effort to hear this, as it stands easily next to any of their other albums, and depending on your exact mood, just might sound like their best. Beyond those already initiated, Systems/Layers will appeal to just about anybody who likes beautiful sound or enjoys the way great ambient music helps to shape the environment. Rachel's have crafted an album of undeniable power and grace, and if you fall under its spell, you may not want it to end. "}