{"label":" Expunged","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7158/homepage_large.c1a4650f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"To: Elliott/From: Portland","text":" Faulting a tribute album for sucking is like faulting a lion for killing a zebra: It's just being true to its nature. Even tributes to the sturdiest music often winds up negligible at best, hamstrung by a combination of unfathomable artist selection criteria, poorly chosen artisttosong pairings, and tossedoff, demoish production work. And that's a shame, because tribute albums have the potential to stimulate that worldcolliding excitement some of us recall from the comic book crossovers of our youth, one of the key rules of which is that you don't pair stars with nobodies. When tribute albums fall flat, it's often because they violate this rule. D.C.'s Batman versus Image's Spawn is a surefire box office smash, but can you imagine Batman taking on, say, Marvel's Power Pack? So if it's remarkable that To: Elliott / From: Portland doesn't suck, it's even more remarkable that it doesn't suck while violating this rule. Since all the contributing artists are from the deceased singer's Portland home, the tracklist is rounded out by more than a few sorry, guys nobodies. Naturally, much of the credit for the tribute's overall success goes to the bands, which, for the most part, have turned in some very considered, fleshedout renditions of Smith's songs. But a lot also has to go to Smith himself: Whatever qualms some may have with his aesthetic, he was a very fine songwriter, and on the strength of his source material, even the unknown acts come off surprisingly well. I'd have bought a Power Pack comic if Wolverine was in it, you know? The tribute kicks off with its bigname draw, a Decemberists cover of \"Clementine\". With its opening rustle of sheet music, languid countoff, and muzzy harmonicas, it evinces exactly the sense of intimacy that attracted fans to Smith's music in the first place, and Colin Meloy does a good job of imposing his brassy twang without decimating the delicacy of the melody. The Helio Sequence drenches \"Satellite\" in weepy synths, otherwise playing it close to the hip. Swords handles \"I Didn't Understand\" in their usual \"we're not quite Death Cab, but close\" style. Even Eric Matthews holds his own, recasting \"Needle in the Hay\" as a great, fuzzedout rock creeper.  One has to assume that the target demo for an Elliott Smith tribute is Elliott Smith's fanbase, which contains a significant contingent aligned around the belief that any attempt to cover the perfection of an Elliott Smith song is to utterly ruin it. When Stereogum posted Crosstide's cover of \"Angeles\" (which is pretty good synths quiver and swell behind the subdued vocal delivery, pushed along by a drum machine that seems like a deliberate slap in the face to indie folk diehards), the initial run of comments read like a more damning parody of the Smith purist than anything I could devise. \"The synth takes away all of the subtle resolve of the original,\" one poster complained. \"I thought most of the song's integrity were [sic] destroyed,\" opined another. This one, fuming: \"It could easily make the lameness that is the O.C. Yuck, how awful.\" And my favorite, \"ugh as Elliott's biggest fan, it's really hard to listen to this, mostly cause it's crappy and the electro shit in the background is so cheesy and makes the song way lame. Sorry Elliott.\" The value system that emerges is crushingly predictable crappy recordings of acoustic instrumentation, good; anything digital, bad; palpable emotion more important than craft. But if to play an Elliott Smith song with even a hint of deviation from its original form is sacrilege, then these Smithies must be approaching the album fully prepared to be appalled, maybe even relishing the opportunity. To their credit, there are a couple of truly galling moments. We Are Telephones bludgeons \"Division Day\" into an overbearing, MOR sledgehammer, and in a move that seems deviously engineered to enrage purists, Lifesavas turns in a rap cover of \"Happiness\" that's less terrible than it has any right to be but this is only in relation to its being a rap cover of Elliott Smith; it's still a tad painful. Sometimes, two great tastes do not, in fact, taste great together. But for most of this tribute, they do, and casual listeners who haven't invested Smith with such heavy personal resonance will find plenty to enjoy, even if a lot of his core audience balks. Sorry, Elliott. "}