{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8168/homepage_large.3b3763b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Test Icicles","title":"Boa vs. Python","text":" Posthardcore means not being afraid of keyboards. Posthardcore means not having to apologize for fourthgrade humor. It means you acknowledge that moshing is not the only acceptable dance move. It means you don't find it a sellout move to commission remixes from that \"Music Sounds Better With You\" guy and his buddy. Posthardcore means occasionally sounding like a video game. It means you don't always have to be putting your vocal cords in mortal danger, though an oldfashioned primal scream still has its time and place. Posthardcore means it's alright to release three singles from one album.These are all things I've learned from listening to Test Icicles, and though \"posthardcore\" may not be a wholly new or particularly accurate classification, it's how I'm hearing this London act's distinctive aesthetic. The trio never seems to stretch far from music that's aggressive, but at the same time are eager to apply the occasional spacey synth, dial down the vocals, and traffic in rhythms that do strange things to people's lower bodies. In their pop/scream dichotomy, Test Icicles remind me of Braid, another band that was once referred to as posthardcore, but a Braid that has lived through the recent vogue of dancepunk without becoming completely cynical about its potential.Here then, to coincide with the recent stateside release of their inconsistent yet promising fulllength For Screening Purposes Only, is a rundown of the band's three EPs one a U.S. release, the other two UK singles. One serves the role of hype harbinger, an effective primer for the various angles the band covers at this embryonic stage. The other two show the band's willingness, like their big brothers in Death From Above 1979, to submit their music to revision by dance producers, a practice I'm pretty sure Minor Threat never indulged in.Lead single \"Boa vs. Python\" is packaged with one track that also landed on the album, plus two that remain exclusive to this EP, and it serves as fitting introduction to the band's rambunctious sound. The tone on the title track is heavier than most of what's to be found on For Screening Purposes Only, but any threat of the band maintaining their scary pose is undercut by a playful garagerock organ. \"All You Need Is Blood\" also seems vaguely threatening at the start, but doesn't take off until the band slips into a hihat driven groove and Advantage NESriffing. \"LMNO Hoes\" is a jokey speedcore throwaway, but \"What's in the Box\" reveals the band's Brainiac heritage in satisfying fashion, nailing the miniMoog squiggles and hysterical delivery better than most Timmy Taylor disciples.The other two singles are remixheavy and fall into the category of \"for fans only,\" each sporting a pair of makeovers that run the full gamut from stunningly bad to bizarrely, fascinatingly bad. \"Circle. Square. Triangle\" is the better of the two source materials, but suffers the greatest disservice, including an endless, recasting that reaches new valleys with a (hopefully) tongueincheek MC endorsing \"technomathrap is the best.\" The blander \"What's Your Damage?\" draws in the bigger names, with Digitalism turning in an evilsounding treatment partially undone by the defanged slow tempo, while Alan Braxe & Fred Falke whip up an absurd juxtaposition of New Romantic keyboards with the original track's throat torture.All these outside influences, then, provide repeated proof that Test Icicles are usually better off trusting their own instincts. The best moments on For Screening Purposes Only manage to hit just the right mixture of sounds hardcore diversified by synth intrusions and dancepunk given a more dangerous sheen. It's a balance that's thrown off by these attempts to reorganize the components. As such, only the isolationist \"Boa vs. Python\" fairly represents the promise Test Icicles and the current iteration of posthardcore have to offer. "}