{"label":" De Stijl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8654/homepage_large.0d0faa52.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Wooden Wand and the Vanishing Voice","title":"XIAO","text":" Like those kindred metaassociatives in Sunburned Hand of the Man or the silvan folksters of the Jewelled Antler Collective, Wooden Wand & the Vanishing Voice are an epically productive bunch. As a result, each new album in their seemingly constant parade of fried psych/folk/jazz possesses a relaxed air. That unhurried vibe is one of the NYC/Tennessee troupe's strong points; though, on the downside, keeping up with their numerous records can be a son of a bitch.Outside of James Toth's excellent Wooden Wand solo album, Harem of the Sundrum & the Witness Figg, the most recent suite includes Buck Dharma, released as a limitededition double LP on Time Lag and CD on 5RC; XIAO, a soldout double De Stijl LP reissued by Troubleman Unlimited; and The Flood, which arrived up in your local record store last month. Corralling these three releases is hardly definitive readers should keep ears to the ground a little longer for the jazzed Gipsy Freedom, due on 5RC early next year, and a planned double CD one instrumental/one vocal, to be played together as stereo overlap. All said, seems they have Sebadohitus.In general, the band tends to do a few different song formations: longish group singalongs/chantalongs with apocalyptic themes and performed with noise squiggles going on behind 'em; burnt folk darkness via Wooden Wand, who sings like Roky Erickson; airy excursions fronted by Satyn Sai, who sings like a 1960s chanteuse; and noisier rambles. WWVV never lock into as aggro rides as NoNeck or Sunburned there's something spacier and more fragile going in their ruckus.Each album has its strengths, but Buck Dharma's the better of the older collections. For the opener, the guitar and noise hum of \"Hideous Whisker & His Woman\" feels like a dragonfly darning guitar licks in a Motel 6. Toth baptizes himself with a vat of echo punch for \"Rot On\", laying down Loren Connors flamenco dub. It's always the band's strongest angle when he channels an echoplex preacher. Satya Sai takes the vocal lead on \"Risen From the Ashes\" guitars pitch ragged Wayne Rogerslike psych blood at her airy delivery. \"Satya Sai Scupetty Plays 'Reverse Jam Band'\" is, more or less, as the title says, with Sai jamming for over 10 minutes to ambling, rusted root backwardness. The guitarist's start turn is \"Steven the Harvester Presides O'er the Din of the Cups\", a mess of flickered drone dream over drum soloing. There's plenty of good stuff across the nine tracks, but the best is the finale, \"Wicked World\" think of an 11minute Woven Hand damnation call around a U.S. Saucer campfire. The liner notes (as incantation) come courtesy of Byron Coley. Pete Nolan of Magik Markers guests.Accompanied by extensive Thurston Moorepenned roadtrippin' liner notes and more peyote than the acidhinged Buck Dharma, XIAO crunks like Castanets on nodoze. The songwriting and/or improvising seems more tentative or redundant, as if the posse's not quite sure where they're going. Still, the crew does eventually make it to the silty baptismal font of the Mississippi. Oddly, you can occasionally pick bits of Smog from the pacing of \"Paper Trail Blues\"'s junknbowed percussion and camelthroughapinhole Bible story. Satya Sai is a female John the Baptist or some other desert rattlesnake charmer on \"Caribou Christ in the Great Void\". The centerpiece is the Native American \"Weird Wisteria Tangles Carrion Christ But Intends No Harm\" has me thinking of Angus MacLise jangling into an outdoor love song. There's a scrappy bellyofthewhale feel to the Jonahseafaringjam \"Lions In Love\" not too many joyful sounds on this one, though it does get a bit rockin' at the end. \"Return of the Nose\" has Toth's voice upfront, backed by a lovely \"all roads lead to him\" church choir.I've had Buck Dharma and XIAO for ages and both took a little time to really sink in, but The Flood's apocalyptic drone hit me from the first listen. It's a fresh set of detuned atmospheric blues dedicated to sax player Charles Gayle and Death Vessel. From the opening strums of \"Snake Earl\", The Flood feels more assured. Of the six songs, three are more than 10 minutes long, and all are well done. The hypnotic 14minute title track is a Noahfocused group chant the noise waves increase as the song gurgles onward. The guitar piece, \"(I Wanna Live In) Sunbeam Creek\", is perhaps the most unadorned and sprightly beautiful WWVV track so far. I could imagine Cardinal using it as a bridge between two hooks. Dropping \"American Pie\"'s Chevy and levee, the reverbed, howling strummer, \"Dogpaddlin' Home to Live With My Lord\" is as good and loveydove countrified as anything from Harem of the Sundrum. Turning the Zombies into an autobiographical sketch, \"Imeltime of the Season (Interlude)\" is a spiraled guitar and woodblock backed by Toth waving goodbye. The finale is close to 15 minutes of the standard Satya Sai piece, this one called \"Satya Sai Sweetback Plays Oxblood Boots\": more blocky percussion (this time in more of a loping loop), laser gun, echoing vocals chopped between speakers, guitar hum, some of that Gayle stuff, flood themes, etc.On Halloween, two weeks before I'd heard The Flood, I ran into Vanishing Voice members Glucas Crane and Steven the Harvester sitting on a bench between some of the only pine trees on Bedford Avenue. It made sense to see that they'd cozied themselves within a personal urban pine forest to watch paired kids parade past in colorful and spooky garb. Now, postflood, it gives chills like it was some kind of Noah's Ark trial run. "}