{"label":" Popfrenzy","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8869/homepage_large.9f0917f6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Xiu Xiu","title":"Australia/New Zealand Tour EP","text":"  This uneven odds'n'sods EP, mostly comprised of limitedrelease vinyl tracks difficult for nonfilesharers outside of the U.S. to obtain, was created as a souvenir commemorating Xiu Xiu's first tour of Oceania, so it can be forgiven for being of little value to North American consumers. The quality is too erratic to appeal to the casual fan, and the Xiu Xiu diehard is likely to already own the 7\"s on which most of the songs appear. Only two tracks, Cherry Point remixes of \"Clowne Towne\" and \"Ale\", are domestically exclusive to this EP, and while those will be the bait for fanatical collectors, they're utterly unlistenable. What really sinks this EP is how poorly it serves the Australian audience for which it's intended. Already slim at eight songs, it becomes downright anemic when you realize that four of the songs are destined for deletion at your next scheduled iTunes pruning. It opens with \"Bog People\", still an excellent artpop howler, and still readily available on last year's easytofind La Forêt. One track is just 23 seconds of bird sounds that make no conceptual sense within the EP's scattershot gestalt; it seems like a sneaky way of boosting the track count. Cherry Point's harshnoise remixes of Fabulous Muscles's \"Clowne Towne\" and La Forêt's \"Ale\" find the tracks brutalized and pointlessly obscured. \"Ale\" is slightly more tolerable because the original song's structure and melody glint through the striated layers of muffling distortion. \"Clowne Towne\" affords no such relief, offering a few seconds of vocals before diffusing in a shapeless haze of percussive static. If Cherry Point exerted much time and effort on these remixes, it doesn't show they sound like they were made in five minutes using a few layers of a Boss Dr. Sample's effects bank.  Xiu Xiu's best foot is very good indeed, but even the four remaining songs don't really put it forward. \"Red Croissant\", taken from a GSL split with Kill Me Tomorrow, is textbook Xiu Xiu a stuttering bleat and wheeze, atmospherically chiming percussion, Jamie Stewart's drifting vocals, some piercing synth tones, scraping sounds, barren and plinky expanses. The trimmings are fine, but the tepid vocal melody prevents it from being more than serviceable. \"Blueberry Mine Shaft\", a cover of 5RC recording artist Nedelle from Xiu Xiu's second covers EP, is a simple and lovely acoustic ballad. A prettygood cover of Nick Cave's \"Jack the Ripper\", taken from a recent split with Paper Chase, is hellishly nervous and raw.  The one real gem here is \"Juarez\", a track from a split with the Dead Science featuring Oxbow's Eugene Robinson on vocals. Its stark, ambient field is wellsuited to Robinson's possessed wail, his creepy Waitsian falsetto slinking through demonic blues. Given Xiu Xiu's prolific and adventurous nature, it's easy to understand why they'd turn out a tepid track now and then. The impetus behind putting several of them on one weirdlysequenced EP is much harder to apprehend.  "}