{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9002/homepage_large.60e1fa95.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Alias and Tarsier","title":"Brookland/Oaklyn","text":"  Working with a vocalist that is, a singer, not an MC might be the best thing that's ever happened to Alias. His skill as a producer has never been in doubt, but the Deep Puddle Dynamics alum's good ideas don't always cohere into music that exceeds the sum of its parts. His craft isn't lacking, but his songcraft sometimes is like other Anticon soundscapers, he tends to lose focus and meander, obscuring core song ideas with dense layers of distracting detail. Of course, for the Anticon faithful, this \"difficulty\" represents everything that's best about the music. Listeners of the poppier persuasion, who prefer to be lulled with lucid rhythms and melodies instead of floundering through murk, will prefer the immediate pleasures of Brookland/Oaklyn to the gradual ones of Lillian or Muted. This bicoastal collaboration with vocalist Tarsier, assembled slowly as the two participants traded music and vocals back and forth via the Internet, takes the form of glacial shoegazehop. Tasier's vocals are languorous and pretty to the point of nearly vanishing in a different context, they might be dull, but here, they're the ideal silvery complement to Alias's iceblue keyboard surges and sputtering drums. The songs move with elegant deliberation, and are captivating in a sort of remote way; they possess the serenity of objects dusted with snow. The twinkling piano and staticky percussion of \"Cub\" pulse toward a gentle crescendo beneath Tarsier's sweet nothings, and \"Dr. C\" pairs Telephone Jim Jesus's bright acoustic guitar with a nervous drum track and melting synths. These same anxious drums, lolling crazily on busted springs, meet Kirsten McCord's saturated strings on \"5 Year Eve\", building to a brief yet tempestuous electropop finale. Of course, this being an Anticon project, there are cameos. Besides the aforementioned Telephone Jim Jesus, Subtle's Dax Pierson adds subtle textural keyboards to the silken arpeggios of \"Picking the Same Lock\", and Doseone shows up on \"Luck and Fear\". Offset by Tarsier's alwaysrelaxed purr and Alias's rapidfire, careering drums, Dose's MicroMachineMan stammer sounds more impossible than ever, alternating between a singsongy slalom remindful of Eminem's chorus on \"Drama Setter\" and Dose's trademarked linguistic overload. If his turn threatens to derail the album's temperate thrust, it's redeemed by sheer verve, and ironically, the only \"cameo\" that does dilute the album is Alias's own vocal appearance on \"Last Nail\". The track revolves like an iridescent drill, gradually picking up force until suddenly, Alias is doing that generic fastrapping thing all over the place, squandering the tension and dark allure. It's the only time when the album's hypnotic lull is disrupted; for the bulk of it, Alias stays behind the boards and Tarsier behind the mic, resulting in the most enjoyable music to which the producer's name has ever been attached.  "}