{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8780/homepage_large.938b430d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Yamataka Eye and John Zorn","title":"Naninani II","text":" Here's a scene to burn into your mind: Yamataka Eye looks up to God with a thick, green vocoder tube dangling from his throat as if he's a 10secondold newborn. He holds a mic to his lips to emit a noise that is a cross between a mosquito dazedly banging into a porch light and a junior high video class sound effect of a crashing UFO. It's potentially tragicomic, but there is nothing else to do or think about just to watch. One's ears can seem like they're bleeding with tinnitus until the camera shifts to the right. John Zorn blows half of his saxophone into a pitcher of water as if on life support, his shoulders high and face shrunken. Zorn is convulsing with each squeal while his comrade adjusts his noisebox for another fix. Eye's electricity now hums into a wail leading to a climax where Zorn reattaches his brass to end the argument with the tone of a drill sergeant's face hit by a recruit's spat. Eye rips the tube out of his mouth and undergoes an epileptic kabuki fit. He almost screeches in key and rhythm to Zorn's blats; ending right on the beat. Their audience at NYC's Tonic applauds as if being on Maury Povich.That QuickTime video clip of \"M.S.T.G.L. (moneysextripgodlove)\" filmed during one of Zorn's 30odd birthday party concerts he threw for his 50yearold self at Tonic in September 2003 could be another case of testosterone poisoning art. It could also be noise as the phantasmagoric possession of the human soul. Both Zorn and Eye embody the latter exposing the tension and sheer camp of the human body's barely domesticated noises. Eye's work with the enigmatic Boredoms often sounded like a rehearsal space with three bands screaming and outdrumming each other just to hear themselves. And then there is Zorn, who could fill libraries with translations of Attention Deficit Disorderedjazz into episodes of Ornette Coleman's America, grindcore metal dirges, and the genredamming Cobra game the rules of which I still can't fathom after the 20th readthrough. Both gentlemen can make listeners laugh, flinch, squint, cup their mouths, or walk outside for fresh air. The past few months saw two releases where Eye 'n' Zorn broke bread: 50th Birthday Celebration documents their Sept. 15 gig, while Naninani II is a sequel to their '95 zoo animal revolt.Listening to their new work was masochistic for me. Highpitched tones disturb me, and Zorn cleared my sinuses with one of the more horrific squeals caught live on tape in the 50th Birthday closer, \"Choronzone\". He outguns Eye after his techie Sawai Taeji deliver a slippery cathedral organ drone that falls into a hole. In the opener, \"Postivia,\" Zorn berates a broken TV, courtesy of Eye's garbled static. The freak show element both entices and repels. In \"Microwavable Empty Highway\", Eye mimics a howler monkey's mating call to Zorn's balladry that places an arm around a stranger in a subway train and tells of modeling (prostitution) opportunities in Hong Kong. \"Sun See Soon\" is an oldfashioned dick around with avantguitar legend Fred Frith squeaking along with Eye's microphone feedback and Zorn's vile birdsong.Naninani II is stronger with finer studio attention to detail and ambient atmospherics. Echoes of the Boredoms are heard, as \"Espimo\"'s rhythms of a pinkelephant chasingwoodblock and the saxophone riffs that tell it to shut up because it's trying to sleep, loosely recall the Osaka band's oldie, \"Your Name is Limitless.\" More arresting is \"Fat Anarchy on Airtube\", where Eye's whooshed breaths and rollicking koto noodlings lead to a hymnal drone that seems to make it difficult for someone to breathe, causing him or her to steadily pound the walls. \"Shiso Baba\" revamps the same electronic drone but oddly finds a sort of pantheistic awe in the temple bell tones and Eye's infantile utterances. Elsewhere, \"Kiri Taki\" resembles a mystic chanting a raga and pounding tablas to the tune of a nearby Pole Position arcade machine. The more baffling \"4ab\" lets Zorn serenade to what is either a duck tearing up a newspaper in pond, or a frustrated photographer fumbling one print after another in a darkroom. I don't want to know the sight or smell of whomever produced those noises. "}