{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8944/homepage_large.7ba5814f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Harry Nilsson","title":"Son of Schmilsson","text":" He sung his balls off for you, baby. Harry Nilsson, mildmannered banker by day before being propped up by John Lennon and Paul McCartney as the fabbest songwriter they knew, was one of those guys you read about being able to sing out of the phonebook and make it work. He had a bizarre, almost toobountifulforitsowngood talent that combined sarcasm, dry wit, pure songwriting chops, and a personal buoyancy that usually offset even his most selfdefeating, throwaway lines. His best stuff pretty much everything he released in 197071 was unlike any major recording artist, juggling disparate aspects of pop music (and even pop culture in general, check his animated short/soundtrack The Point for New Age idealism crossed with aciddamaged imagery) with the whirlwind pace at which he was living.So, Nilsson was an Icarus. He teetered over the edge both musically and physically, indulging passions for melody and liquor as if both were going out of style. When he and Lennon hooked up in the early 70s, during Lennon's famed \"lost weekend,\" it was like an excuse for both men to give in to every addiction, bad idea (and even a few good ones), and rock'n'roll clichŽ they'd managed to avoid before. For Nilsson, it wasn't totally destructive: He scored several major hits off his Nilsson Schmilsson LP. It was a desperate record that, even if it didn't necessarily fall back on the Beatlesque songcraft he'd flashed on his earlier stuff, was overflowing with charismatic bravado and the sometimesragged voice of someone who'd inhaled more than his fair share of smoke.However, if Nilsson Schmilsson was desperate, Son of Schmilsson sounded a little bored. Or drunk. Or something you'd imagine a ridiculously talented singer might come up with as an afterthought before heading out for the night. It's not that the songs are terrible: \"Remember (Christmas)\", hokey title aside, is a classic Nilsson ballad, perhaps taking a cue from his pal Randy Newman, but delivered with a nuance that sounds very close to sincerity. Nilsson had a knack for being able to make almost any line, any tongueincheek turn of melodic phrase seem warm, even optimistic in the face of whatever foolery he was up to at the time outside the studio. \"Spaceman\" sounds like a single, 70s style, big chorus and syncopated band hook intact. In fact, it's one of the best \"productions\" on the record, right down to an orchestration that would make George Martin proud, though lines like \"I wanted to be a spaceman/ Now nobody cares about me\" seem almost too fitting for comfort.However, most of the record is gags. \"Take 54\" (which borrows way too liberally from the bad Lennon solo records) finds Nilsson admitting he needs his girl to come back so he \"can make a good track,\" while \"Joy\" details his runin with a woman would turn him into her \"joy boy\" over a goofy countryrock backdrop. Funny? I guess. \"You're Breakin' My Heart\" lays it out: \"you're breakin' my heart, so fuck you.\" Funnier? Arguably, though at that stage, it wasn't honesty or blunt humor that Nilsson lacked, but tunes. The jokes on Son of tend to fall flat for similar reasons as Lennon's concurrent stuff did: All attitude and not many great hooks make getting through the music a laborious, if occasionally chuckleworthy experience.As if retreating further into an inside joke (that Nilsson probably only ever told to himself in the first place), the singer released an album of standards and showtunes, A Little Touch of Schmilsson in the Night. Fans shouldn't have been surprised at his ease pulling off this kind of music, as he'd always been something of a cabaret pop performer, only now subbing out a clarinetridden McCartney influence for Irving Berlin. The best news is that his voice is back to its old, silky smooth self (though he'd completely ruin it the following year recording Pussy Cats with Lennon). The bad news, if you don't happen to love extra golden oldie American popular song, is that the arrangements and performances are straightdownthemiddle, bythefakebook croon to make Andy Williams beat the band.\"It Had to Be You\" is nice (and the string quote of \"Over the Rainbow\" is a cute touch by veteran Hollywood bandleader Gordon Jenkins); \"Makin' Whoopee\" is done well, with still more vintage string arrangements, though seems a bit on the slow side to me. In fact, the whole record is geriatric with a capital Muzak: I want to think Nilsson actually loved this stuff, and was paying it homage with straightforward interpretations, but the tempos are uniformly nursinghome ready and his voice perpetually in the same modest, comfy tenor; eventually, I want to look for a trace of sarcasm just to stay awake. The bonus tracks aren't helping, as the last thing I need is more of a drowsy thing. Everybody's Talkin': The Very Best of Harry Nilsson is (another) serviceable bestof for an artist that had a habit of actually tucking his best stuff away deep in the middle of his albums. Nevertheless, if you've never heard the guy before, this has all the hits: \"Coconut\", \"Everybody's Talkin'\", \"Jump Into the Fire\", and his versions of \"One\" (made famous by Three Dog Night) and \"Without You\" (Nilsson's only No. 1). For my money, the best stuff here is \"Me And My Arrow\" (from 1971's The Point) and \"The Moonbeam Song\" from Nilsson Schmilsson, but I wish they'd included more from his early records (particularly Aerial Ballet or Nilsson Sings Newman).After Son of Schmilsson, Nilsson never really came back from the edge. Pussy Cats was an improvement, though often for reasons unintended by its makers. Sometimes when I hear it, I wince it's tough to listen to someone selfdestruct on record, even if (or especially if) he's giving it his all. Each of Nilsson's records from the mid70s onward (ending with 1979's marginally underrated Knnillssonn) was less popular than the one before, and unlike some of his popgenius peers, it wasn't really because he was flying too far over the heads of audience. As such, these latest reissues probably aren't the best way to discover his music, though are still an essential part of his legacy. "}