{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8959/homepage_large.cb079e41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Agoraphobic Nosebleed","title":"PCP Torpedo/AnbRX","text":" Like most revolutionary forces, Agoraphobic Nosebleed didn't last long. Once crowned kings of the ultrafast sweepstakes, their grindcore made their competition extinct by breaking the genre's essential rule: They canned their drummer and turned over the bpm to a drum machine. The Locust, Charles Bronson, even Discordance Axis helmed by the fastest living drummer, Dave Witte couldn't keep up. Then again: After a while, who really cared? Watching a needle skip, shake, and fly across full LP sides in seven minutes or less was an awesome but necessarily shortlived thrill. All that remains today of that era, for me anyway, is a ruined eBay account: I, er, a friend of mine, in those heady days, once totally ruined his online credibility by chasing (OK, bidding on) the original incarnation of PCP Torpedo a 6\" colored scrap of immediately outofprint vinyl. These days, without context, those who encounter Agoraphobic Nosebleed generally act like people on hidden camera shows: nervously laughing, half credulous, and half already figuring out the exact ironic distance to maintain from a band that names a track \"A Clown Pointing a Gun at a Small Dog (Reprise)\". And did I mention PCP does its 10 songs in 6:32, about the time it takes to get to the first chorus in \"Freebird?\" But the joke, if there is one, isn't on you. Brainchild of Pig Destroyer's Scott Hull and the former Isis programmer J. Randall, Agoraphobic Nosebleed aren't hacks or comedians but dudes who know basic secrets like \"if it's fast, it might rip,\" and \"if we can write 17 threesecond parts anytime we want, then why not put them all in the same song?\" PCP Tornado was the perfect length for Agoraphobic's exhausting calisthenics; at its best, as on \"Information Super Lost Highway\" and \"Thinning the Herd\", the record distilled a halfday's worth of breakdowns, catdog vocals, and whirring metal riffs down to the time it takes to snort a line of meth. In this respect, Agoraphobic acted as the exact opposite of the doom that's metal's current watchword: Where stoners take heaviness and mellow it enough to last the length of their high, Agoraphobic's grind condenses the experience, syncing it up to match, in feel anyway, the wealth of colorful pills that decorate their album art.  If there is a joke here, it's how laughable the idea is of reissuing a suite of songs that are about half the total length any given song on Southern Lord. Cue then the dubious decision by Hydra Head to include a second disc the drugpunning ANBRX of remixes of Agoraphobic originals by industrial noise types. Why bother? Agoraphobic's formal innovation, as far as they had one, was just that: mating industrial noise and pseudobreaks played off a drummachine with a notsodissimilar grind that was already getting both noisier and more techno. In effect, they were already remixing their metal tracks, just in first draft form. Why put amphetamine rock on amphetamines?  Nevertheless, Jansky Noise, Auek, Drokz & Tails, Hells Army, and a phalanx of others lean on pretty much that exact principle, relentlessly working the drum machine as if somehow Agoraphobic Nosebleed hadn't already done the exact same thing. More palpable are takes by Merzbow and Vinda Obmana, who depart from the script and instead make menacing, dark cloudy factory junk out of the dregs of the source material's adrenaline. And the combo of Dev/Null and Xanopticon at least take the drum machine to its logical extreme, turning their track into moreorless pure breakbeats that sound amusingly like battling rats. But for a band that made what one critic once called \"the Paul's Boutique of grindcore,\" shouldn't they be the ones crafting the remixes? "}