{"label":" World Music Network","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9246/homepage_large.5646a1d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Rough Guide to Planet Rock","text":" The other day I stumbled across a website offering mp3s of Burmese rock bands. I listened to about 30 of them, was surprised and dismayed at the number of them that sounded just like bythenumbers American modern rock sung in other languages. I'd hoped that if Burmese rock bands were going to rehash Staind, they'd draw upon their own country's music in the process. After all, most of the global pop and rock I've listened to has brought some local element to the table often in rewarding ways.The Rough Guide series has operated in that arena for years, offering quick dips into musical forms most (Western) people have no point of reference for, and occasionally pulling together an introduction to an iconic artist with no real representation in mainstream American culture. The Guides have always had an objective component to them, aiming to offer a snapshot of, say, Malaysian music from traditional sounds to modern pop ballads, and as such they're typically eclectic and correspondingly hitormiss in terms of track selection. One of the most recent volumes, The Rough Guide to Planet Rock, is uncommonly solid for something so broad.It's a strange mix, hopping around the globe from Guinea to Frenchcontrolled Reunion Island, Congo, Ukraine, Niger, and even the U.S. for recent music that bridges genre and cultural divides with a rock or, often, hiphop edge. In no way does it present the scope of global rock in any depth, but it's not supposed to either it's a rough guide, like it says on the tin. What it does do is skim some interesting stuff off the top, beginning with the brilliant CambodianAmerican band Dengue Fever's frenzied Southeast Asian garage prog.Jumping around as the disc does, you get the bizarre klezmer/Latin/rock/hiphop hybrid of the Hip Hop Hoodios \"Kike on the Mic\", a song that winds together English lyrics about white Jewish identity with Spanish verses and a wicked clarinet. Guinea's Ba Cissoko continues that country's tradition of producing ridiculously talented guitarists on \"Sabolan\", which features a blistering solo, while Reunion's Yela puts a sturdy salegy pop song on an Afrobeat frame and Les Boukakes, a French band populated by Tunisian immigrants, rocks up rai with surf guitar. Saharan bands Etran Finatawa and Tinariwen bring desert blues up several notches with snaking guitars and organic beats full of traditional percussion. Femalefronted Palestinian rockers Rim Banna are a nice find, kicking up a dubby storm on \"The Grandma With a Limp\", which offers plenty of politics in its Arabic lyrics.Gogol Bordello and Konono No. 1 are probably the most widely known inclusions, and both deliver, though these album tracks are things their fans will already know. The biggest misfire is Albert Kuvezin and YatKha's Tuvan throatsinging cover of \"In a Gadda Da Vida\", which has an interesting instrumental arrangement, but just sounds uncomfortable croaked out in Kuvezin's froggy throatsinging. For a great introduction to throatsinging, you're still best off going to the traditional sounds of Huun Huur Tu's The Orphan's Lament.Providing a great look at the collision between pop and tradition is The Rough Guide to West African Gold, the title a reference to the \"Golden Age of African Music,\" from the late 1950s to the early 80s. It was during this period that West African musicians began incorporating jazz, r&b, calypso, and eventually soul, funk, and rock into the various local styles and griot traditions of the region. Newly freed from French and British controls, these populations embraced music as a means of national expression, and some countries, notably Guinea and Mali, offered state sponsorship to groups who could develop national styles.Three Guinean bands appear on this compilation Horoya Band and Balla et ses Balladins both exemplify the unique AfroCuban trance style of Guinea's Syliphone label, the latter with some beautiful balafon figures. They're both overshadowed by Bembeya Jazz National, though, quite simply one of the greatest bands ever, from anywhere. Their cut here is an atypical one, a Bside called \"Whiskey Soda\" that highlights the Cuban in \"AfroCuban\" as vocalist Demba Camara hilariously pretends to get progressively more wasted on the titular beverage, ultimately breaking down into barely controlled laughter.The disc grabs 13 tracks from a huge swath of Africa, from Senegal to Nigeria, and as such it does a decent job of splitting things between Anglo and Francophone countries, journeying to Ghana, Sierra Leone, and Mali in addition to the countries already named. From Sierra Leone comes Geraldo Pino & the Heartbeats' monster funk track \"Let Them Talk\", a song that exhorts listeners to ignore gossip over a hellacious groove. Highlife king E.T. Mensah, widely credited with popularizing the music outside of its native Ghana, checks in with the independencethemed calypso \"GhanaGuineaMali\", a song that foreshadows the panAfrican nationalism of the late60s and early70s by celebrating a shortlived economic federation between the three countries.If there's anything all this music has in common other than geography, it's the sense that no matter how serious the subject matter is, the music should move, be it with swirling guitar and hand percussion or a fat backbeat slathered with organ. Horn arrangements are nearly ubiquitous, and the recordings have loads of character you can hear the trumpeters and saxophonists standing around the same mic and blending naturally amid the oceanic guitar currents. Senegal's Dexter Johnson & the International Band do beautiful things with the Latin standard \"El Manisero\" (\"The Peanut Vendor\"), ringing that distinctive melody with an airy lattice of guitars, while countrymen Orchestra Baobab get magnificently dark on \"Boulmamine\", with Barthelemy Attisso's lead guitar stepping up with psychedelic riffs and a stunning solo.These two compilations similarly illustrate the difficulty of cherrypicking a handful of songs to represent the full scope of a moment in cultural time that affected huge geographical areas. Rather than functioning as genuine guides, I'd say they both do something more limited, and potentially rewarding: they move the door ajar and allow the listener to see a glimpse of what's on the other side, offering directions for exploration, should you find the glimpse interesting. With the range of material on display, there's a good chance you will. "}