{"label":" Raven Marching Band","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9139/homepage_large.05556094.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Laura Veirs","title":"The Triumphs and Travails of Orphan Mae","text":" A native of the Pacific Northwest, Laura Veirs rose to a modest degree of cult fame on the strength of her 2004 majorlabel debut, Carbon Glaciers, and its closeontheheels 2005 followup, Year of Meteors. At heart she's a folk singer, possessed of a physical voice similar to Suzanne Vega's and a lyrical voice all her own. Her primary instrument is her trusty acoustic guitar, and her loyal band supports her with banjo, percussion, and fiddle. What set her apart from her peers on those two albums was the technology mixed fluidly with her traditional music. She and producer Tucker Martine decorated her earthy songs with ethereal effects: synth cascades, keyboard squiggles, and the occasional programmed drumbeat. This has been done before, of course, but rarely to such specific effect. Instead of floating her music aloft, these odd sonics actually anchored her expansive melodies to the rumble of the real world.In the interim between Meteors and her next release, Veirs is reissuing two early albums through Kill Rock Stars, a stopgap of sorts for those few fans who have yet to track them down. The Triumphs and Travails of Orphan Mae, from 2001, sounds essentially unplugged compared to subsequent releases. Sure, \"John Henry Lives\" marries Danny Barnes' scars of national steel with a Casioderived beat, and \"Raven Marching Band\", with its ominous guitar line, dissolves into a static of dissident instruments. But the overall aesthetic is barebones baked in a western sun. It's the same atmosphere simultaneously wideopen and constrained, claustrophobic and agoraphobic that colors Glaciers, but here it's in service of a concrete conceit: The Triumphs and Travails of Orphan Mae, as its title implies, is a kind of musical picaresque, a loose travelogue across a hostile American landscape.Feminizing the Woody Guthrie mythos, Veirs kicks things off with \"Jailhouse Fire\": \"Hopped a train and headed West/ Free woman I'm just like the rest/ All the hobos on the train call me a liar.\" That last line is crucial, as Veirs acknowledges the distance between a postmillennial indie folk singer and a desperate Depressionera itinerant. Instead of comparing her touring life with riding the rails, she sounds like she's trying to lose herself in American traditional music. Having noted the chasm between herself and her subject matter, Veirs applies this selfaware authority to the rest of the album, convincingly delivering a lament over a murderous brother in \"Up the River\" and the musings of a wayward cowgirl in \"Blue Ink\".Lacking such a cohering concept, Troubled by the Fire, from 2003, sounds a little scattershot, but it represents a surefooted step in the direction of Glaciers. Starting with a few patient moments of ambient noise, Veirs and Martine gradually introduce new sounds into her music, creating a space where an electric guitar or the combination of cello and piano can sound otherworldly. She even gets a rock makeover on \"Cannon Fodder\", a brazenly abrasive protest song that makes you long for a fully electric album even as you cringe at lyrics like \"Every war is brutal, stupid, expensive, and mean.\"Despite these developments, Troubled remains a reverent folk album, with voice and guitar still its main elements and a fiery populism in its heart. Alluding slyly to Guthrie's \"This Land Is Your Land\", \"The Ballad of John Vogelin\", based on Edward Abbey's novel Fire on the Mountain, features a yodeled chorus that's quietly but angrily defiant. \"Midnight Singer\" concludes the album on an equally quiet note, mingling country guitars and carnival organs in an eerily erotic minor key. As with Orphan Mae, it's hard not to read a little of Veirs into this song. Of course, she's not the title character she's far too modest for that but lines like \"Sing inside my heart / And oh mysterious, like no other song\" sound like her hopes for how her own compositions might be heard. She gets there soon enough. "}