{"label":" 859","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9119/homepage_large.d661741c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Matthew Friedberger","title":"Winter Women/Holy Ghost Language School","text":" It has come to my attention that people hate the Fiery Furnaces for any number of reasons: too many keyboards, fleeting pop moments lost amidst elaborate arrangements, unusual vocals, wordy lyrics, the insulting concept that an album might grow better with time rather than be immediately accessible. Suffice it to say that I don't agree with any of those arguments, but I'm certainly not so fanboyblind as to foolishly believe the Friedbergers' music will or should be universally accepted. Yet what has become abundantly clear over the band's prolific fouryear existence is that it's averse to compromise, despite the divisive response that attitude tends to breed. One might suppose that solo album(s) from the chief Furnaces songwriter Matthew Friedberger would magnify his flaws/assets, and in the case of Winter Women and Holy Ghost Language School, one would be correct. The first albums released under his given name reflect an even less compromised vision than the comparatively commercial (chortle) work of his day job. Alone in the studio (save some drum parts from Tortoise's John McEntire), Friedberger is free to indulge his obsessions with offbeat production and musical storytelling, to different degrees of success between the two records. A major tenet of the Friedberger philosophy has been to grant each album a unique sound, and here Winter Women is designated the pop record, while Holy Ghost carries the label of rock opera. Nevertheless, Winter Women’s popness is only relative to previous Furnaces’ efforts, sporting structures less likely to suddenly veer down unexpected routes but thick with instrumental and lyrical peculiarities. The straightforward melodies of \"Up the River\" or \"Ruth vs. Rachel\" rudely abut against the disorienting drummachine clatter of \"PS 213 Mini School\" or the jarring guitar solos of \"I Love You Cedric\".  Throughout Winter Women, Friedberger explores the denser sound the Furnaces have gradually approached over their career, sometimes to the point of overcooking songs like “Under the Hood at the Paradise Garage” suffer from one keyboard too many being added to the mix. Often the instruments threaten to overwhelm Friedberger’s voice entirely, low in volume and prone to muttered spokenword asides. The muddy sonics make moments of simplicity, like the soft mellotron on \"Hialeah\" or \"Quick as Cupid\"'s wistful vocal, particularly welcome reminders of the songwriter’s restrainedbynecessity Gallowsbird's Bark days.  No such respites are to be found in Holy Ghost Language School, Friedberger's second albumlength narrative after the polarizing Rehearsing My Choir. The story of one Scot Dombrowski, a Pentecostal businessman who starts a school for using speaking in tongues for business negotiation purposes in China (obviously), it’s a plot that makes Rehearsing My Choir look like an episode of \"The Golden Girls\". Further boosting the ambition, Friedberger also lets his music do the talking in a lot of places, substituting extended instrumental passages for exposition along the lines of \"Sparks\" from Tommy.  Unfortunately, combined with the onceagain quiet radioplay vocals, this method makes the story extremely difficult to follow, a struggle that isn’t helped much by the linernote lyrics. The record also sounds sucked dry of the pop talent Friedberger usually preserves amidst his conceptual wanderings, filled with dizzying smears of drum machines run amok and backwards vocals, with ominous piano riffs running in loops on the instrumental segments. Without many melodic islands to look forward to, trying to sort out the plot becomes something of a chore, appropriate as the discomforting sound may be to the themes of the album. Thus, the downside of the \"every album should have a different sound\" policy may be, carrying with it the risk of producing the occasional stumble, a record which is weighed down by religious dedication to its concept or sound. Blueberry Boat still stands as Friedberger's finest accomplishment due to the multiplicity of angles from which it can be enjoyed; as a distant echo of British Invasion rock, as exploration of a pop song's limitations, as an evocative collection of musical stories. Winter Women and Holy Ghost Language, with their more narrow aims, each represent only a fraction of that whole, and as such may provide Furnaces haters with more ammunition than their defenders.  "}