{"label":" WEA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13303/homepage_large.969a28e9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Boredoms","title":"Super Roots 1","text":" It was like some violent, pristine plan: Marching through a halfdecade playing music that nobody outside of Japan (and very few people inside Japan) had ever imagined, Boredoms slaughtered expectations and good taste. What to think of the horrific, scatological Onanie Bomb Meets the Sex Pistols or Soul Discharge? They were punk, sound art, DIY, and careless. Like all the best things in life, they were initially loud and annoying. They made music whose only Western counterparts were brainy NYC noise artistes like John Zorn, DNA, and Sonic Youth, yet their viewpoint sounded more akin to a twoyearold dropping paint on a guitar and eating hardcore pornography. It was \"influential,\" in the same way a tornado is influential on surrounding weather patterns (while paradoxically being completely dependent on them), but the band from Osaka, physically isolated from more celebrated Japanese artistic culture in Tokyo has never operated within any scene to which you could attach it. At the dawn of the 90s, Boredoms were as disagreeable as they came.And then something strange happened: Year by year, EP by EP, they turned into millennium messiahs. Their music went from abstract expression, hundreds of vectors shooting out from the edges of their graffitimural songs, to hyperrotating flashes of light, warmth and the kind of glorious, singleminded pound I associate with tranceinduced cults and massive religious awakenings. Drums were everywhere, momentum was everything, from the thunderous, flailing fire music of Super Roots 5 (1995) to 1997's heavenly motorik'd Super Roots 7 to what, as I hear it, is one of the most perfectly realized rock records ever released, Vision Creation Newsun (1999). For all the music critics and Musicology Ph.D's proclaiming the invalidity of clear linear progression in the arts, Boredoms' one way ticket to the sun in the last decade tricks matters up a bit.Then, they disappeared. Boredoms morphed into the drumcircle outfit V∞redoms after guitarist Seiichi Yamamoto and bassist Hira left the band in 1999 allegedly, in Yamamoto's estimation, after they'd played the most perfect music they could ever play. It's hard to argue with him. Vice's reissue of the Super Roots series documents a band on a mission, whether or not they planned anything in advance. These records, spanning 1993 through 1999, many of which were never issued outside of Japan, are not only a decent summary of Boredoms' music (though I'd check Pop Tatari and Chocolate Synthesizer first for the apex of their early sound), but are also inspiring examples of how a few people, playing music particular to almost nobody but themselves, can represent the upward movement of not only their culture, but the world at large. And yes, a lot of hippies thought the same thing about themselves indeed, opponents of 90s Borevolution have called out the later stuff as \"hippy music\" but especially in light of the snowballing speed of information at the time, I'm hard pressed to find better period reps than Eye, Yoshimi, and company.The original Super Roots EP from 1993 (94 in the U.S.) is the only one of the series excluding the superlimited, still nonreissued Super Roots 2 miniCD that originally came with Japanese versions of Chocolate Synthesizer that bears much relation to the \"regular\" studio records Boredoms released concurrently. In this case, that means the music is all over the place: \"Pop Kiss\" begins with a triple countoff (\"1234, 1234, 1234!\") to precisely not much. Yoshimi's wah'd trumpet, Yamamoto's quietly rising, staccato guitar and what sounds like someone kissing the mic form a perfectly Bore introduction to the record, albeit kind of like getting a damp cloth when you're expecting fireworks. \"Budôkan Tape Try (500 Tapes High)\" rocks it up a bit as primitive dubsludge in fact, much of the record takes on a tribal ambience with pitterpatter percussion and the feeling that all of this is happening amongst island natives cooped up in a studio on their one foray into the city.The showstopper on the American version of the EP was \"Chocolate Out\", comprised of eight mini\"songs\", including \"Pitch at Bunch on Itch\" (day 3 guitar lesson rock riff + Eye hitting shit with a stick and screaming), \"Machine 3\" (yellrock + day 6 punk lesson riffs + proto\"Acid Police\" call and response screaming), \"Ear?Wig?Web?\" (forecasting the tropical noises they'd make in a few years) and \"Super Frake ∞9\" (sounding like a chant I'd expect to open a V∞redoms show). As a coherent statement, Super Roots isn't. As a Boredoms product from the time, it's more than typical.Things started getting interesting (as in more so than hittingshitwithastick interesting) with Super Roots 3 from 1994. Consisting of a single track, the halfhour, perfectly named \"Hard Trance Away (Karaoke of the Cosmos)\" was a straightforward fusion of hardcore punk and purity through repetition. Perhaps Eye got the idea from his heroes Bad Brains, who while never playing any 30minute hardcore jams, did suggest the possibility that cosmic enlightenment and violent pummeling via riffs and beats were by no means mutually exclusive. With the benefit of hindsight, SR3 looks like an obvious sign of things to come, though to my ears, it sounds larval compared to the fullgrown heaven crashing on Vision Creation Newsun and Super æ.Nevertheless, this is pretty relentless stuff; speedbeat and twochord riffing are the order of the tune, and in fact that twochord pattern doesn't even change until almost fiveandahalf minutes in. It changes again at 9:32, and again a couple of minutes later if that sounds like slow torture, take solace in the fact that were you experiencing this live, you'd probably need an IV before the song was half done. The entire track is instrumental except for brief intro and outro screams before everything comes to a sudden halt, ending with two minutes of silence. I'd call it the calm after one storm, and before another (on the next record), but that's bad poetry where SR3 is just hard and fast.So, things started getting really interesting as in more so than cosmically enlightenedspeadbeat interesting on 1995's Super Roots 5 (there was no fourth part of the series, due either to copyright issues or Japanese superstition regarding the number \"4,\" depending on whom you talk to), arguably the most singleminded, impenetrable thing Boredoms ever released. But wait! That doesn't necessarily mean it's cacophonous noise (even though it is) or that you won't be able to make it all the way through. Rather than use punk as a conduit to universal truth, this time the band used shimmering, undiluted rock noise: oceans of distorted guitar waves that suggested some kind of metasonic, universal harmony pummeling ears like a sonic tsunami, and what sounded like an army of cymbalists. Over the course of 64 minutes, drummers Yoshimi and ATR provide nothing like a pulse; rather, sheer, piercing power via the resonant roar of their metal discs and battered sticks. Indeed, the track entitled \"GO!!!!!\", after Eye's imperative about five minutes in is a fairly literal, if monolithic mapping of a tidal wave, and though I'm tempted to award the band a million points for ungodly persistence, I can't say it's the easiest listen in the world. (Though in fairness, there are a few Bore freaks out there that think this is the best thing they ever did.) In any case, Super Roots 5 gave ample warning of the kind of nuclear release Boredoms were capable of, and in retrospect, perhaps they had to go there in order to prepare themselves for the more angelic fury of Super æ and VCN.Boredoms arrived at the midpoint of the 90s in the most dissonant, unresolved way possible, which, given the exquisite, anarchic resolve of their final records, seems almost too perfectly scripted. The music they made afterwards took all the sounds approached to that point, and channeled them into sounds that, to go with Yamamoto's suggestion, left very little room for improvement. Stay tuned for the next exciting Bore chapter (i.e., Vice's reissues of Super Roots 6, 7 and 8) for maximum, beautiful noise and other natural disasters. We're just getting started. "}