{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/10156/homepage_large.2da72ad0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Jim James","title":"Tennessee Fire & At Dawn Demos","text":"  One can only imagine Mr. and Mrs. James' reaction when Baby Jim spoke his first word in that Godgiven reverbdrenched voice of his. It seems more like a congenital trait than a byproduct of the band's recording environment, and James heightens the effect by drawing his Kentucky accent into a unique phrasing pattern. With My Morning Jacket, as well as with his previous Louisville outfit Month of Sundays, that reverb became as recognizable as Michael Stipe's introverted mumbling and Thom Yorke's strangled screech a means of distinguishing himself sonically from other bands, but more crucially, a means of communicating mystery in a way that no other sound or instrument could. So it's fitting that Darla Records' longdelayed Tennessee Fire and At Dawn Demos, which collects rough cuts and live takes of songs from the late 1990s and early 2000s, begins with a version of \"The Way That He Sings\", which James didn't write about himself but which many fans might write about him. Aside from an acoustic guitar, it's all vocals two tracks layered simply over one another to form both primary and backing vocals. Most of the songs here especially those from Tennessee Fire are similarly minimal, with little or no input from other band members. The music feels private and personal, as if these songs are creating their own weird spaces where they can play out unmolested by listener or artist intentions. The demos for My Morning Jacket's 2001 breakthrough At Dawn feature more of the band, but without sacrificing that same sense of space. \"The Bear\" and especially \"Heartbreakin' Man\" sound like inspired practice sessions, informal but spirited, while \"War Begun\" and \"Twilight\" both recorded live at local station WFPK 91.9 FM lose only a little of their effect for sounding so clean.  Like a painter's early pencil sketches or a writer's margin notes, demos are generally noteworthy only for revealing new facets of the finished, familiar works. In a sense, the Tennessee Fire demos might seem redundant because the studio tracks sound something like demos themselves, but these versions also track James' creative process of turning lyrical and melodic ideas into finished songs. \"Lowdown\" emphasizes his backing vocals more than his lead: Maybe he's singing those bababa's as a guide for another instrument, but they become the focus of the song, its primary hook on the demo as well as on the album version. On the other hand, the early version of \"At Dawn\" is still a wisp of a song in search of a full band who can turn it into the heraldic opener that gives the group's second album its title.  Delving even further back into My Morning Jacket lore, Removador Recordings and Solutions is releasing the only album by James' previous band, Month of Sundays. They formed in 1992 and recorded their first and only release in 1998, the same year My Morning Jacket formed. Saturated in the same reverb, these songs have seen only the most limited release until now. (They're available under the name Mont de Sundua, ostensibly so as not to conflict with any of the Months of Sundays that have sprouted and withered during the last nine years.) While the songs sound a little unformed and raw, Mont de Sundua is hardly a skeleton in James' closet, and those looking for a Y Kant Tori Read embarrassment or some sort of sordid ska past will be sorely disappointed.  Instead, these songs reveal young men just discovering the power of drums and guitars, as well as the possibilities of unusual recording environments. It's often juvenile and unguided, given to meandering passages and noise for its own sake. There's a definite local feeling to the record, too, as if these songs could have been written and performed by any number of skatepunks hanging around outside the public library. But the band play their spacey jams with metal intensity, grinding their riffs into a fine powder on the massive opener \"Space Beast\" and \"One Salty Kiss\". And tracks like \"Wanna See My Bruise Again?\" and the saxheavy \"Boots Bar\" show James' early range as a singer and songwriter, the group's dark atmosphere and confident quiet/loud dynamics pointing ahead to their careermaking Darla output. Both of these releases are best heard alongside the two Darla fulllengths, which remain My Morning Jacket essentials. Instead of shrinking by comparison, these demos actually benefit from proximity to the official versions, offering an engaging and generous career recap and, more importantly, showing how James' songs live and breathe in different forms.  "}