{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/10407/homepage_large.4c4272e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rumble in the Jungle","text":" Rumble in the Jungle, a new Soul Jazz collection of classic early 1990s jungle, is not necessarily the perfect introduction to a genre that's become something of a forgotten story now that Germany has taken out a 99year lease on all dance music coverage. But since new fans (i.e. most people reading this) will find it easy to look past the deficiencies that longtime jungle obsessives (including myself) have been complaining about on message boards and blogs the obviousness of the tracklisting, the deathly dry packaging, the deeply contentious liner notes, the preponderance of tracks by renegade hiphousers Shut Up and Dance Rumble may still one of the best (or at least easy to actually procure) oldschool jungle comps for newbies that's currently out there. Even if it is deeply circumscribed from a stylistic standpoint, with a selection of tracks errs towards anthems, with a few deep pocket wild cards designed to prick the ears of the converted. All of the tracks on Rumble in the Jungle are linked by their attempt to squeeze as much Jamaica into their brief running times as possible. Of course, the England of Caribbean immigrants already had plenty of reggae lying around, and as the story famously goes, its children demanded something new, with epochal cutandpaste jobs like Shy FX's \"Original Nuttah\" and MBeat's \"Incredible\" also being the place where those raw, digitally dusted breakbeats met dancehall and dub. Without that 21st century twist to the funk (instantly recognizable but still improbable over a decade later), that mutated input from New York and L.A., these tracks wouldn't be half so exhilarating or infectious. Like the witty, blubbery lowend of DJ Zinc's \"Super Sharp Shooter\" expanding hiphop's waistline until it almost burstsyou can't hear it and not smile. This is \"futurism\" that makes you sweat and bounce, sensationjuiced tracks that are arguably closer to the dreaded \"Switch tune at +8\" or \"homemade Lil Mama breakbeat remix\" than modern techno or even dubstep. If Rumble rarely relaxes, explores beauty for its own sake, or fails to pay due deference to rave, jungle's emotional and sonic range always precluded an allinclusive, onedisc introduction. Anyway, you should be jumping up and down too much to really give a shit about historicity. Meanwhile Greensleeves' new collection, Ragga Jungle Dubs, follows the label's excellent 1996 cashin Ragga Jungle Anthems, and its appearance so close to Rumble in the Jungle seems to be a cosmic accident rather than a retro marketing push. And the two compilations couldn't be more different. Far from Rumble's rubbery rhythmic personality, the tracks on Ragga Jungle Dubs are even less ravey (fewer bright synth hooks, wriggling acid basslines, and stickinyourhead rap samples) and more ruthlessly mechanical, flecked with subtler hooks and heartattack syncopations like the machine gun spray of \"Gangster Don't Joke (Drum & Bass Dub)\". When they're on, the producers of these faceless \"dubs\" work miracles out of just lonesome keyboard ripples [the knockoff 4Hero eeriness of \"New Blood Spilt (Drum & Bass Dub)\"] or gunshot sound effects [the selfexplanatory \"People Dead (Jungle Dub)\"], playing the gun play nursery rhymes [the murderminded doo wop of \"Gun Talk (Original Dub Plate Lick)\"] and clamoring party chants of yard stars like Ninjaman and Bounty Killer off rhythms that have the grinding exactitude of subway cars at high speed. Ragga Jungle Dubs is less interested in being a highlights reel, more about the kind of serious grooves that separate fans from dabblers. Buy the former, however, and you'll probably want the latter soon enough. "}