{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12032/homepage_large.fa3a6670.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Dan Friel","title":"Ghost Town","text":" As one of dual frontmen in Parts & Labor, Dan Friel takes the disobedient squeals of keyboards and other sundry electronics and marries them to more familiar contexts, making otherwise jawclenching noise surprisingly palatable while helping the two to threechord punk anthem sound new again. On his solo record Ghost Town, he's using many of those same glassy, trebleheavy electronic tones, but just as P&L can replace guitar and bass with unfamiliar sqeals, Friel goes further and replaces the drums, the vocals, and pretty much the whole band with the wheeze and skronk of electronic instruments. Even as he abandons traditional rock instruments, he bends his new toys to the particular vision of his betterknown band that is, to twist noise until it's basically pop. Opening track \"Ghost Town Pt. 1\" builds slowly from honking and sputtering into a thunderous bass chug, setting a rhythm that almost overwhelms its prideful 8bitlike theme. That same deep, distorted bass is the bedrock of \"Desert Song\", though its melody is woozier and less distinct than the album opener; highpitched whistles mark out more videogame territory, but they slide in and out of tune as the cascading mechanical beats take the foreground. \"Buzzards\" is almost a pocketsized rave, its rhythm relentless, its keyboards drunkenly melodic, its background whistling and wheezing demanding more and more. The quiet ring of \"Ghost Town Pt. 2\" has a dogwhistle melody countered by a thereminlike tone, but they fold over each other and slowly recede into another earpiercer and hipshaker. From its extended intro to its slowburning melody matched to a tireless rhythm, it's a distinctly rock move that unfolds like many of P&L's monster singles. But Ghost Town is far more than just demos for Friel's other band, which you can tell from its forays into a more desolate and mournful atmosphere. The hiccuping ringtone beat of \"One Legged Cowboy\" could fit in with the minimal, melodic IDM Thom Yorke ventured into on his solo album, and its quiet whistles are lonely and almost kitschy as the track's open space begins to evoke the album's title. The same goes for closing track \"Horse Heaven\", which could almost soundtrack the closing scenes of a Western with its lowbattery siren melody augmented by faraway church organ over the slow, inevitable march of its rhythm. As it is with Friel's day job, your mileage with this may vary depending on either how you noisy you like your pop, or how poppy you like your noise. However, the fact that Friel has accomplished the same ends in a much more difficult context, all while adding his own distinctive and personal touch, is no small feat. "}