{"label":" Flameshovel","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1182/homepage_large.31054505.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Bound Stems","title":"The Logic of Building the Body Plan EP","text":" When I first caught the Bound Stems in concert, they sounded like an economical take on mathrock winding guitars and tricky time signatures, but with pop songs I could still remember after stumbling home. That was nearly two years ago, when they had only a couple selfreleased EPs to their name. I saw them perform again recently and they'd drafted Janie Porche to sing nearconstant backup and play about 18 different instruments, in the process becoming a manylegged amorphous blob of swiftlychanging styles, sometimes three or four times per song. Unfortunately, Porche doesn't appear on The Logic of Building the Body Plan, a generous seventrack EP, nor does she play on the band's first fulllength that's already completed but yet to be released. So it's strange that Bound Stems' first release with real distribution is a transitional one, recorded after their album was finished. Bound Stems take cues from meat'n'potatoes indie here, but take substantial risks with composition, and the songs are just as likely to run aground as succeed. The lovely collage art in the booklet that overbears the nearly illegible lyric sheet couldn't be more evocative of the music therein several thrilling moments, but with a few songs just short of a payoff or a thread to hold onto. The band recalls a lot of wellestablished names here: Bobby Gallivan's doubletracked vocals and wistful, rolling syllables recall Issac Brock's delivery in calmer moments, the best tracks lean on woozy crescendos รก la Arcade Fire, and the band switches gears as unexpectedly as Fiery Furnaces (there's even two spokenword elderly woman interludes). But their ambitious and hungry guitar/bass/keyboards/loops lineup is more jagged and distorted than any of those acts. It's an immersive listen, but not always a cohesive one. Opener \"Crimes & Follies\" builds from a slow, syncopated strum into a heavy swing just to toss its momentum to the wind with a meandering instrumental passage, and the many segments of tracks like \"Totipotent\" and \"My Kingdom for a Trundle Bed\" with jangling guitars, bubbling electronic textures, reverberating keyboards, and deep distorted basslines collide less than gracefully. There's two big exceptions, though: \"Wake Up, Ma and Pa Are Gone\" breezes past on gorgeous guitars and a sprightly drum pattern (courtesy of Harvey Danger refugee Evan Sult), almost slows to a halt, then pulls up for a speakerblowing crescendo. Then there's \"Risking Life and Limb for the Coupon\", where Gallivan stays calm while the rhythm leaps and lurches until the cathartic fullband sigh of the finale with memorable calm/frantic callandresponse singing. (Incidentally, both of these tracks are taken from their unreleased fulllength.) Bound Stems may be guilty of showing all their cards at once and rarely relaxing for the sake of the song, but its worth it to catch them now before they become another entirely different band. "}