{"label":" Information","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12037/homepage_large.bc071079.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Studio","title":"Yearbook 2","text":" I'd played Studio's remix of Kylie Minogue's \"2 Hearts\" to a friend, promising with an evangelist's zeal that her mind would be blown. \"It sounds like the Gipsy Kings,\" she replied in a neutral tone. It wasn't a complaint, but nor was it a compliment; perhaps she was simply commenting on the remarkable fact that someone would want to make a Kylie song sound like the Gipsy Kings, or the even more remarkable fact that Kylie herself would propagate the result. A few months later, over at her house with some friends, the familiar sound of Kylie's vocals and Studio's ringing guitars emerged in the background. The moment passed without comment, but I felt a small, irrational surge of satisfaction: somehow even \"it sounds like the Gipsy Kings\" had become a selling point. Before people start rushing towards or away from this release on the assumption that they'll find a \"Bamboleo\" or two, I suspect \"the Gipsy Kings\" was shorthand for \"lashings of Spanish guitar.\" But the style of the observation, rather than the content, is what matters: There's something about Studio that compels people to repeat this gesture, emphasizing the purposeless perversity of whatever sonic lineage they identify just replace \"the Gipsy Kings\" with \"Sting\" or \"World Party,\" or whatever you like. It's not a surprising response: The most widespread and painfully boring critical line on \"nuBalearic\" music is that its primary function is to render previously intolerable music tolerabletohipsters, redeeming Elton John or Paul Simon via the canny addition of a disco beat and some dub echo. This take isn't wrong, exactly, but it's the kind of sociological analysis that makes you hate the world a little bit more after reading it, rather like earnest discussions of how to woo soccer moms for votes. That, plus pretty much anyone who tries to take a position of knowing \"I see through this\" superiority towards hipsters is at first glance being hypocritical. The kernel of truth here is this: What Balearic revivalism does is create a single \"genre\" that can portray a whole host of different types of music in their best light, giving a sense of secondorder purpose to music whose functional purpose wasn't entirely clear previously. Perhaps it was too slow, too elaborate, either too songful or not songful enough, too cheesy or perhaps too selfimportant. Studio rate highly on all of these fronts: Too enraptured with grooves to be a proper rock band, but too attached to morose rock grandstanding not to be; too torpid and dreamy to be a proper dance outfit, but too in love with dancing to be anything else. More subtly, the Swedish duo's music verges on cheesy at the precise moments that it appears selfimportant (although it's a truism that these are frequently two sides of the same coin). Studio's selfimportance is discomforting because it's never clear whether their reach exceeds the grasp or, rather, the act of reaching just a little too far is the entire point of their music. Half the thrills come from watching just how effectively they can deploy bombast.  Following on from Yearbook 1, a collection of their own songs, this second installment offers an abrupt lefthand turn by focusing on Studio's facility as remixers for others, and it's surprising to discover just how easily the Studio sound can be grafted onto the work of others with surprising versatility. Without their own despairing vocals, Studio sound less like the Cure listening to Fela Kuti on a beach in Ibiza, and rather closer to the emergent nuBalearic norm of heavy, languorous disco grooves the 4x4 kick drum is surprisingly dominant, although not unwelcome. What distinguishes Studio's work from their peers, beyond their everpresent fetish for cascading sprays of iridescent guitar, is their prickly restlessness: Most of the inclusions here resist the temptation to coast on a strong groove, instead continually morphing through a kaleidoscopic succession of interlaced motifs like a Mandelbrot set. Yearbook 2 alternates between oneoffs (like the gentle summertime pop of their remake of the Shout Out Louds' \"Impossible\" the most conservative cut here) and a sort of staple Studio remix sound: mysterious, almost dark disco grooves populated by glistening synthesizers and glittering shards of the duo's trademark guitar. The quietly ominous epic treatment of A Mountain of One's \"Brown Piano\" and the broiling, dramatic take on Williams' \"Love on a Real Train\" they could almost be movements in a single piece win the day for the latter group, if only because their glowing eddies and curlicues of sound offer the most ostentatious display of the duo's strengths. As remixers, Studio are at their best when most tantric, when their grooves submit to the effervescent fluidity summed up in the title (and, vaguely, the sound) of Can's album Flow Motion, sliding inexorably forward from detail to detail on an endless plateau of simmering intensity.   Such is Studio's studio wizardry that it's easy to forget that they're also a rock band, especially when they're crafting such delicate, delectable avantdisco remixes. But it's the absence of Studioasthemselves which ultimately makes Yearbook 2 a less captivating experience than its predecessor. On a trackbytrack basis, this is as much a bonus as a drawback: Freed from the distractions of having to concoct songs, the duo can concentrate on eking out every drop of prettiness from their grooves, and there's a satisfying sense of aesthetic purity to the formal loveliness of much of their work here. But taken as an album, Yearbook 2 can seem emotionally flattened out when compared to its predecessor; there's nothing as gloriously wallowing as \"West Side\" or as unabashedly emotional as \"Out There\".   The one tune to transcend this dilemma entirely is the remix of \"2 Hearts\", perhaps because Studio have simply replaced one exaggerated song blueprint (moping pseudogoth British indie rock) with another (ecstatic femmepop). In fact, Studio's version ends up a better song than the source material, its relative spareness allowing Kylie's performance to shine with an intensity that is undetectable in the original's overcluttered glam homage. Submerged in Studio's glittering guitar spiderwebs, supremely supine disco beats and endless layers of dub echo, Kylie's vocals are genuinely moving. All the glam ambiguity of the original is sensitively excised from this version: The song's deadpan sarcasm had no place amongst Studio's endless horizons of lovestruck earnestness. More than any other tracks here, \"2 Hearts\" successfully makes the argument for Studio as an inhouse band for other pop outfits: a deadlyserious Scandinavian Sly & Robbie, if you will. Hopefully the duo won't be forced to make the choice between backroom boys and rock gods any time soon: More than just about anyone else they deserve to have their cake and eat it too. "}