{"label":" Perlon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12034/homepage_large.2e49a0a8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Ricardo Villalobos","title":"Vasco EP Part 1","text":"  With a few exceptions (including, but not limited to, his wiry and emotional debut album Alcachofa, the gorgeous Achso EP, and many of his perkier remixes), Ricardo Villalobos has spent the past five years or so mining that corner of minimal house where \"nothing happening\" becomes a happening, uncovering moments of magiceye shifts in perception when privation is transformed into an embarrassment of riches. Last year's Fabric 36, a mixedtogether compendium of new Villalobos productions, pushed this absenceexcess dynamic to its extremes, its delirium of quietly overlapping rhythms and uncomfortable vocal samples verging on being toomuch of that notenough that constitutes the producer's odd charm. I use \"charm\" deliberately here: The word \"genius\" gets bandied about just a little too easily with this guy, though you can see what people are aiming for when they make the claim. There's an inscrutable quality to Ricardo's music that makes him seem way ahead of any curve you're on, and this sense of a higher intelligence is seductive even when the music fails to be. \"It's not him,\" I've often thought when a particular Villalobos track has left me cold, \"it's me.\" Villalobos seems to be pushing the lessismore line further and further these days; but then, he's getting better at it, or at least more fluent. With his latest doubleLP release Vasco EP Part 1 (yep, that's two pieces of vinyl for four tracks, and it's only part one) he retreats slightly from the throughthewormhole (or at least khole) antics of Fabric 36 and its sister vinyl release Sei Es Drum, for a partial return to basic house principles. But unlike the compulsive swing of his recent remix of Shinedoe's \"Phunk\", or his remarkably catchy, hypeinducing DJ tool \"Enfants (Chants)\", Vasco has no truck with house's traditional pleasures. On \"Minimoonstar\", one of two new productions included, melody is abandoned almost entirely, in favor of rippling drums and a quirky, xylophonelike bassline that slides around uneasily for 13 minutes. Taken as a whole, its radical uneventfulness is perverse, but at any given moment the sheer delicacy of its sound (in particular its bruised, radioactive bass tones) is bewitching. Still, it's hard not to suspect that Villalobos' increasingly hardline stance against structure, dynamic, and linearity is undermining the execution somewhat: \"Minimoonstar\" crests at about six minutes, with eerie ambient washes giving a sense of significance if not exactly purpose to its aimless meanderings; but Villalobos then seems to shy away from the pathos he hints towards, drifting instead into doldrums of fitful kicks whose gamefaced emptiness is frustrating more than enigmatic. His reluctance to force emotions onto his audience is noble in some ways, but as listeners sometimes we need to be manipulated.  Perhaps this sense of trailing off wouldn't be so stark if Vasco didn't include a stunning remix of \"Minimoonstar\" by Shackleton, the erstwhile dubstep producer now increasingly determined to beat all the Germans at their own games. While never seeming overtly structured, Shackleton's remix drifts organically through several movements that build in intensity with a lethal grace. As with his own recent track \"Death Is Not Final\", here he uses a pulsing 4X4 kickdrum less as a concession to house groove than as a nominal structure around which his rhythmic excursions can roam even more willfully than before: the astonishing middle section contrasts a solemn house pulse with ringing and melodramatic widescreen percussive patterns that sound like stones skipping across the surface of a bottomless lake, unabashedly evoking a kind of spiritual agoraphobia.  Despite its title, Villalobos' second track, \"Electronic Water\", is by far the less fluid, opting for an awkward, fidgety groove that promises less but ultimately delivers more, its wiredup nervousness culminating in a closing stretch of compulsive computer funk that's as smileinducing as anything in the producer's back catalogue. Still shunning melody or emotion, \"Electronic Water\" at least embraces narrative, moving logically from nearformless substance towards a semblance of chattering electro that's pure form. Remixer San Proper takes this idea further, enclosing the entire thing in a cavernous but insistent house groove that sacrifices little if any of the original's unpredictable rhythmic spikiness. Villalobos acolytes will doubtless make sneering references to functionalism and hidebound DJs you'll know them because they will be unable to say anything bad about anything Villalobos has ever done which misses the point somewhat: A good deal of the attraction of the original \"Electronic Water\" lies in how it almost seems to yearn towards becoming proper house, its rhythms probing blindly for some kind of stable reference.  In fact, taken together, Shackleton and San Proper's efforts feel like the logical conclusions that Villalobos deliberately leaves off the page, although they're conclusions that tend in opposite directions, with San Proper embracing sensuality and Shackleton thematic soundscaping. Vasco is not an album for the uninitiated, or for those looking for another way into the producer's bewildering and labyrinthine aesthetic; it's less an album than a survey, less a statement than a question mark. If Villalobos' hypnotic excursions into \"nothing happening\" are by now their own genre and let's accept that they are then Vasco asks what kind of nothing we want to happen, and whether Villalobos is the guy to give it to us. Shackleton carries the day here (if only just) because he reminds us of how devastating Villalobos himself can be when he's prepared to meet us halfway, still ahead of the curve, but glancing back to where we are, and trying to put into words we'll understand the indescribable things he's seen.  "}