{"label":" Autobus","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12060/homepage_large.42640eaf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike McGonigal","artist":"Weird Weeds","title":"I Miss This","text":" We're smack dab in the middle of 2008, and I don't know about you but I'm pretty damn sick of psychedelic folkrock, oblique concept albums with short connecting instrumental bits, fey highpitched vocals, and songs that have birds chirping or bells in them. Also, anyone who sounds remotely influenced by Neutral Milk Hotel might as well be in an electroclash tribute band or yet another fake doomcore band, knowhatI'msayin'? Sometimes, enough is enough, and in general this stuff seems more played out than Mike Myers.I Miss This is the third album by the Austinbased trio of Nick Hennies, Sandy Ewen, and Aaron Russell. Recorded in their own house over the course of seven months, it's full of subtle little touches it's what critics like to call \"meticulously crafted.\" These dudes certainly put a lot of work into it and it shows. Composed of 17 interlocking tunes that vary from one to just over seven minutes, it's structurally similar to the first two Soft Machine albums. There are even times that I Miss This approaches the crazed inventiveness of that band, albeit mostly in a sedate and whispery way.Some of the best songs here drop folkrock to just flatout rock; the pulsating and stunning minute and a half of \"Save the Dogs\" would fit on a mixtape of the year's best songs. The jagged \"Lies\" mixes witchy, Joanna Newsom or Dead Scienceesque folk dirge with early1990s indieprog. It's pretty righteous, especially with that creepy, creaking violin going on throughout most of it. Not all the folksy songs are bad by any means. \"We're Gonna Die\" is a lovely folk song with a cloud of multitracked vocals floating atop a wonderful fingerpicked guitar. I Miss This has much to like about it, but overall it feels overworked. To stick with food metaphors, I don't know if the problem is that too many spices were added or if it was left in the oven too long. Either way, I suggest picking around the overly precious parts to get at the meat. "}