{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12054/homepage_large.b26bd385.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Muting the Noise","text":" Ever since Brian Eno aligned his epochal album Discreet Music with Erik Satie's call for music that could \"mingle with the sound of knives and forks at dinner,\" ambient music hasn't worried much about change. Eno's rhetorical sally dates back to 1975, and the story since... well, it's not much of a story in and of itself. What has been a story, as the music has bedded down with softness and nuance, is how the \"ambient\" enterprise has come to color everything else around it. Setting aside their considerable beauty, the ambient tracks on Muting the Noise owe part of their impact to how they fit in with the rest of what's going on in electronic dance music. Such is the fate of any ambient album now, it would seem especially when the album is compiled by a dance label in Berlin. That's the home of Innervisions, the label run by house heads Dixon and Âme, and the imprint's stable of producers represents their milieu as more than just a cluster of ambient devotees. What makes ambient tracks by Âme and Henrik Schwarz compelling, then, is not just their amorphous atmospheres, but also the ways those atmospheres evoke the kinds of atmospheres that both producers rub down in their more rhythmically antic brands of nowsound house.It would be a mistake to undervalue their considerable beauty, though. If some ambient music is made to be taken for granted, then Âme doesn't help the cause with \"Doldrums\", a gorgeous rush of synth cycles that phase in and out over just the barest hissy suggestion of a beat. Schwarz does it better with \"Arthur\", an intricate piece dotted with a florid piano theme reiterated in different ways and metallic percussion that plays less in measures of rhythmic beats than in timbres of pure sound.Rhythm doesn't figure strongly on Muting the Noise, aside from the sense of momentum gathered in cycles and loops. A few tracks, Karma's and Tokyo Black Star's especially, fall into that propulsively loping realm of ambient scored by Tangerine Dream in Risky Business. (There's many a fantasy of sensuous train travel to be entertained here.) A couple of others skew as noisy in comparison: I:Cube's \"Nuées Ardentes\" hints at ravy sounds while crackling under with dub, while Stefan Goldmann's \"Life After Death\" plays like a moody piece of musique concrète all ghostly reed squeaks and testtones mixed into a disembodied spell. Nothing on Muting the Noise stands to redirect what's thought about ambient music as a project or as an addendum to other sounds, but all of it is measured and ambitious in its way. The only curious standout is the outro by Klaus Schulze. With his stints in Tangerine Dream and Ash Ra Tempel and a sizeable solo career, Schulze is a legend, yes, and his \"Invisible Musik\" covers lots of ground but an incongruous running time of 18:08 makes it hard not to at least wonder what happens when ambient steps out beyond its modest means. "}