{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12055/homepage_large.aef93ec3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Booka Shade","title":"The Sun and the Neon Light","text":" It can't be easy being Booka Shade. The Sun and the Neon Light makes their third studio album in three years, in addition to one installment of the mix series DJKicks and numerous EPs, including a collaboration with Hot Chip. Thanks in large part to two of those singles, \"Mandarine Girl\" and \"Body Language\", a collaboration with M.A.N.D.Y. that was deemed Ibiza's 2005 \"Track of the Season,\" they're among the most globally recognized names in an increasingly fractured electronic dancemusic scene, and they tour assiduously to support that reputation. The duo's members, Walter Merziger and Arno Kammermeier, also codirect Get Physical, the label they founded in 2002 along with Thomas Koch (DJ T) and M.A.N.D.Y.'s Patrick Bodmer and Philipp Jung. But it's not just the length of their workweek, nor the fact that their biggest hits are now three years behind them, that must be tiring. It's their ambitions. Despite their roots in club culture, Booka Shade and Get Physical determinedly pursue the homelistening audience as well as the dance floor, at a time when album sales are down and electronic albums are even more of a \"why bother?\" proposition. As much as fans dance at their shows and DJs play their singles, Booka Shade are rare holdouts for grownup electronica, the kind of subtly shaded comfort listening, equally informed by pop and technological play, that has all but disappeared in this decade.The Sun and the Neon Light is certainly their most grownup album yet: there are fewer obvious singles and more brooding, downtempo moments. While Booka Shade have always been known as a softwarecentric project one of the few acts to be sponsored by a software company, their albums bear the imprimatur of Berlin's Native Instruments, makers of softsynths like Reaktor and amplifier simulators like Guitar Rig they move into the world of \"real instruments\" on this disc, a sure sign of a band intent upon a rather conventional kind of musical maturation. \"Outskirts\" features strings courtesy the German Film Orchestra of Babelsberg; gentle acoustic guitar rustles prominently in \"Solo City\"; and there's even a scrap of acoustic blues, a sort of tongueincheek genre cameo, at the center of \"Dusty Boots\". What's curious, then, is that The Sun and the Neon Light feels less lively than any of their previous work, in both mood and sonics. I've always suspected that Booka Shade's reliance on software synthesizers bears some of the responsibility for a certain airlessness in their sound, but that hasn't always worked against them: On tracks like \"Mandarine Girl\" and \"Body Language\", it's precisely the buzzy, pulsewave sounds that give the music its charge, hovering ominously between euphoria and uncertainty, tinged with a whiff of electrical fire. But this album seems somehow even more cloistered; despite the copious amounts of space in the music Booka Shade honed their craft composing music for television advertisements, and they clearly know their way around the studio nothing ever seems to really breathe, to open up. I don't mean to privilege one kind of electronic sound over another championing \"grit\" in electronic music is often a rockist feint towards specious notions of authenticity, and analog synthesizers and drum machines are not necessarily better than their softwarebased, \"virtual\" counterparts. But too much of this album feels static, like a hothouse vacuum. That's too bad, because it works at crosspurposes with the duo's obvious goal for this record: With four vocal tracks at its core, it's clearly their attempt at pop crossover. Given their reputation for crowdpleasing, you'd expect them to do it better. \"Pop\" needn't mean Kylie, of course, and it certainly doesn't here: Booka Shade take their cues from Depeche Mode, from chord changes to sound design, from the vocal stylings to the familiar secondperson delivery. The vocal melody of \"Control Me\" is a dead ringer for Depeche Mode's \"World in My Eyes\", while the shuffling \"Psychameleon\" is as indebted to \"Personal Jesus\" as it is to Kompakt's glamderived Schaffel stomp. The songs aren't bad, but they hardly feel essential; something about their neatly resolving chord changes and their careful balance between controlled noise and mellifluous tastefulness seems selfcanceling. They dissolve as soon as they're finished. (The lone exception is the quietly overwrought \"Sweet Lies\", which is pretty bad; fortunately, it dissipates just as quickly.) Two singles, \"Karma Car\" and \"Charlotte\", preceded the album in various club mixes, and it's no coincidence that they're the strongest things here. Booka Shade, fortunately, remain crackerjack composers for the dance floor. \"Charlotte\" expertly juggles a fat, goofy bassline with oodles of squelchy counterpoint lines that spin into a dizzying array of brighterthanlife overtones. (More malleable than all but the most sophisticated of their hardware counterparts, software synthesizers are particularly good at that kind of spinetingling morphology, and Booka Shade know how to wring every last drop of excitement out of a modulating filter.) I have no idea what they're singing through their vocoders, but here the human element does help to warm up the song; pop and rave in equal measure, the song's a worthy homage to Madchester's madcap spirit. \"Karma Car\" is even better. No matter that it essentially recycles every trick in the Booka Shade playbook or maybe precisely for that reason it's one of their best tracks yet. Bleepy contrapuntal phrases, clever chord changes that pivot like universal joints, shivering bassandtreble harmonies that glide in unison up and down the scale they're all here, plus some lovely Black Celebrationaping synths, and a baritone chorus that's genuinely hummable. It's tracks like this that keep me interested in the group. But the ability to score hits doesn't equal the capacity for essential longplayers. Ultimately, The Sun and the Neon Light is an unwittingly perfect title for the album, and not only because it conjures the alternating senses of brooding and yearning that their music aims for. What the title describes is just as ineffable as their sound: you can see it coming down, but somehow it fails to leave any tangible impression. "}