{"label":" Love Is All","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12072/homepage_large.d0b84af6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Love Is All","title":"Wishing Well + 5 EP","text":" Back when Sweden took up less of the average indie fan's headphone space remember two years ago? it was annoyingly common for critics to compare Swedish pop to the Scandinavian country's most famous nonmusical exports: IKEA, H&M, Saab. The Swedes aren't much on inspiration, these metaphors (tritely) suggested, but boy are they good at turning others' ideas into safe, efficient, everydayluxury items. Gothenburg, Sweden's Girlfrendo, whose members would eventually form Love Is All, played Bis and Kenickieesque tweepop almost deserving of the usual Swedishpop faint praise, but at their best they brought uncommon charm to the role of the lonesome square.When Love Is All arrived, frazzled and frenzied, with 2006's Nine Times That Same Song, they certainly had their precursors Life Without Buildings, XRay Spex, half of the K Records roster but girlgroup music had never sounded quite as, for lack of a newer word, punk as it did through that lofi lookingglass smudge. Unfortunately, less of what makes Love Is All more than just another stylish yet inexpensive bedroom set could be heard earlier this year on remix compilation Mixed Up, where the same songs that once made us dance, swoon, and spazz out now too many times went nowhere like so much furniture. On their U.S. tour earlier this month, Love Is All started selling a fivesong covers CDR. If Mixed Up had Love Is All's songs hooking up with other artists' styles, the new Wishing Well + 5 EP eMusic's variation on the tour CDR, with a slightly altered track list marries the Love Is All style to other people's tunes.The results confirm not only that there is such a thing as a \"Love Is All style,\" but also that, given the right material, it can be a great look. \"Wishing Well\", the disc's opener and sole original track, bodes well for Love Is All's forthcoming sophomore album, expected next year. Like recently posted MySpace demo \"New Beginnings\", this one puts handclaps and male backing vocals behind Josephine Olausson's romantically challenged yips and cries, here perkily bemoaning the futility of superstitions. Like the rest of the tracks on the EP, it was apparently recorded live at practice, which suits this group just fine.Love Is All's din still has within it that Girlfrendo delicacy, and a precarious balance between the two keeps their performances sounding as if they could at any moment go careening into the abyss be too cute, too skronky, too much. A cover of the Pastels' \"Nothing to Be Done\" teeters exquisitely on this brink, mussing up the janglepop classic with frantic disco hihats, honking sax, and a redlining vocal duet by Olausson and guitarist Nicholaus Sparding. It takes fewer changes than you might think to fill A Flock of Seagulls' glossy newwave classic \"I Ran (So Far Away)\" with Nine Times' drunken frustration. That same feeling comes across more clearly in a rollicking cover of moddish obscurity \"Fucking Hell\", called \"Golly Gosh\" on the actual CDR (The original is by Jed Dmochowksi, a UK singer/guitarist who recorded for Television Personalities mainstay Dan Treacy's Whaam! label in the early 1980s).When Love Is All stray further from material that lets them be equal parts Karen O and Aleksandra Campesinos!, the nervous giddiness subsides. They slow down on a cover of Dire Straits' \"So Far Away\", replacing the Brothers in Arms version's palmmuted power chords and DylanforMTV gruffness with saxled languor, but they'd have been better off fucking up Carole King. \"Kung Fu on the Internet\", salvaged from Glaswegian postriotgrrl group Lung Leg's 1997 Maid to Minx, is a little too close already to Love Is All's busydoingnothing approach; they can obliterate original's \"Batman\"esque riffs, but they can't add the \"emotional content\" the song complains about.Sure, the Wishing Well + 5 EP could've been more interesting if it were + 7, but the ratio of pluses to minuses wouldn't much change. Love Is All's writhing, thrashing \"Darling Nikki\" on the CDR but left off the official release, because, well it's a Prince song couldn't possibly improve on the Purple Rain hit, so it gets downer and dirtier. An unreleased cover of Faith No More's rapmetalpredicting 1989 smash \"Epic\", is a curio a reminder that the original had a Pretty Hate Machinesized hook and that the Strokes trump Mike Patton when it comes to streching the word \"it\" beyond all meaning. Though \"Darling Nikki\" would've been the EP's chaotic, um, climax, the exclusion of these two tracks doesn't change what Wishing Well + 5 is: a confident lark from a band for whom love is just the start (and pop is nothing like a day at some farflung furniture warehouse). "}