{"label":" Nike","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12070/homepage_large.d9639118.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"A-Trak","title":"Running Man: Nike+ Original Run","text":" Comb through ATrak's bio and a portrait of preternatural technical skill, sly business acumen, and uncommon idealism emerges. He won the DMC World DJ Championships in 1997, at the age of 15, and he would go on to DJ for Kanye West at the height of his fame. He turned down an opportunity to DJ for JayZ on principle, out of loyalty to Kanye (although he would agree to handle musical direction for Hova's tour having cake, meet eating cake).Nike's been pretty shrewd in selecting timely, suitable artists for its Nike+ Original Run series, which features continuous mixes designed for exercise, so it's not surprising that they've turned to ATrak for their latest. Nor is it surprising that his contribution to the series features the same steelwheel virtuosity, slippery microcuts, acrobatic beat shuffling, and blockparty swagger that made his Dirty South Dance LP such a blast.What is mildly surprising is that ATrak regards this as his debut album (he says so twice on the Fool's Gold label website) rather than a oneoff thing, which creates some unreasonable expectations for it. A lifestyle accessory with corporately mandated demands (Nike, quite sensibly, dictates the structure and pace of mixes in the series to conform to the physiology of a runner) can't be the kind of ballsout creative manifesto we want from a longawaited debut.ATrak's mix essentially includes five distinct movements. After a callingcard warmup, the beat drops and we get into \"Say Woah\", where a fat, fuzzy caterpillar of a bass line, needling funk guitars, and a hype man's callandresponse get our blood pumping. It ramps up fast: When ATrak starts slicing up the vocal sample after a brief edit, it's like we've gone straight from mild stretches to fulltilt step aerobics. As the discrete elements of \"Say Woah\" get spliced and juggled with typical dexterity, the pinging Euro techno of the second movement washes in and gets syncopated with squelchy flecks, bass grenades, rubbery rumblestrip synths, and 808 claps.The third section is a slinky, midtempo cooldown, with gusts of noirish synthetic strings and serviceable clubrap by Fool's Gold artist Kid Cudi (there's a leaked snippet with Lupe Fiasco on the track, but apparently Lupe couldn't be cleared, which perhaps explains why a guy you've probably never heard of says he misses the days when he could walk around in public). Movement four is total choogle, with ATrak grinding hard on strobelight synth sequences and revved up splashes of countermelody, and five brings us to an arpeggiohappy finish line. If this sounds all over the place, it kind of is. Maybe it's weird that ATrak's original productions feel less cohesive than his cuts of other records we'll have to wait for an unmediated LP before we can say for sure whether this scattershot feeling is intrinsic to his original work or specific to this project.As far as the whole running thing goes: I ventured out into this hundreddegree summer to give it a shot. It worked fine until the tense yet kinda sluggish Kid Cudi section I tried running in slow motion, but it's hard, and the neighbors look at you with pity. So instead of finishing, I had a nice wheat beer with lemon on the porch. I'd like to blame ATrak, Kid Cudi, Nike anyone but myself for my truncated run, but that would be unfair, like getting pissed off at MF Doom when you listen to his music and discover you still can't shoot lasers out of your eyes. "}