{"label":" Hybris","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12075/homepage_large.71b020a8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Vapnet","title":"Döda Fallet","text":" According to songwriter and guitarist Martin Abrahamsson, Döda Fallet is Vapnet's first traditional popskiva its first true pop album. He created the bulk of the band's excellent fulllength debut, Jag Vet Hur Man Väntar, and the followup, Något Dåligt Nytt Har Hänt, on his home computer, but with the addition of the band's first fulltime drummer, Vapnet decided to record its third album in a proper studio, hiring Mattias Glavå to produce. However, Döda Fallet (which translates to \"the dead fall\") represents no dramatic musical sidestep. Instead, it continues in roughly the same headphonespop vein as their previous efforts: The band still draws from the formalism of Swedish pop and the florid movement of Swedish dance to locate all sorts of musical possibilities in its intricate arrangements.Glavå, who worked on recent albums by Sambassadeur and Jens Lekman, adds just a touch of reverb to the instruments, giving the songs an added depth of sound that reinforces both their exuberance and their melancholy. A lone tambourine launches opener \"Stockholm, Sett Snett Uppifrån\" and is eventually joined by Abrahamsson's piano and Philip Gates' drums, which sound new in this context. Then the song flies away with Anna Modin's flute, carrying it to its swirling chorus. Modin's vibes illuminate first single \"Plötsligt händer det inte\", racing against the strings on the chorus and chased by Gates' manic bongo rhythm. That song, incidentally, includes the band's first English lyrics the short line \"Keep up the good work\" which, for an American listener at least, is startling.In the past Abrahamsson has either set Vapnet's songs to programmed beats or shared percussion duty with singer Martin Hanberg, so the presence of a live drummer makes a big difference on Döda Fallet, investing \"Nyår\" and closer \"Det Rör Inter Hjärtat\" with a sense of danceable motion. The former in particular trips along on Gates' discoinspired, heavyonthehighhat drumbeats, summoning sleigh bells and strings to push Hanberg's tricky vocal hook and Abrahamsson's typically elegant guitar theme. As if to compensate for their headlong pace, Vapnet sequence these two songs alongside slower numbers respectively, the halting acoustic ballad \"Jag Lät Bara Sanningen Gå\" and \"Skorpan\", which sets Hanberg's precise vocals against a simple, lonely piano melody and a muted trumpet solo.Vapnet's songs move mercurially, seemingly changing form with every measure. Standout \"Snart Går du Inte Själv\" begins with what sounds like a harpsichord, then transforms into a folkpop strummer, then into something new and unqualifiable when PerOlaf Stjernered's saxophone enters from the dark end of the street, layered and placed somewhere near the center of the song's threedimensional mix, right behind Hanberg's popsoulful vocals. Stjernered plays a short, simple ascending melody, as if walking over to shake your hand, and as far pure musical pleasure divorced from the concerns of geography, language, scene, or genre that sax is profound, and its appeal lies not so much in the way the band use it in the song, but in the mere fact that it exists. That sense of pop purity is essential to the band's appeal, at least to nonSwedishspeakers. At its best, Döda Fallet sounds like pop in its ideal form. "}