{"label":" Birdman","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12071/homepage_large.22ef2a7b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Modey Lemon","title":"Season of Sweets","text":" Even an exceptional garagerock band might be dismissed outofhand for failing to transcend its genre. This happens most often with critics, but there are understandably plenty of dilettante fans who only want to hear the most innovative, toptier acts. It's a situation that keeps some great bands from getting great press and, in some cases, drives some of those creamofthecrop bands to distraction. It's a trap that Modey Lemon have fallen into: being an aboveaverage garagerock band from their debut up through Thunder + Lightning somehow wasn't enough. 2005's The Curious City added many psychedelic touches and ADHD song suites to their overall sound, and while they'd grown pretty far from their spirited beginnings, they managed to grow up with grace. The Curious City would have been a great album for them to ride off into the sunset on and after the three years of silence that followed, I'd assumed they had.While the band's return from their hiatus is welcomed, Season of Sweets presents what would have made for a fine batch of roughandready rock songs that the band should be used to cranking out, were they not weighed down by their grander ambitions. The protometal riff of \"The Bear Comes Back Down the Mountain\" is anchored by a purple synthbass gurgle, and the rest of the record rolls forward on an impressive lowend rumble. The song nods to the psychedelia they dabbled with on Curious City, but adapted into their own more economical and familiar style. Yet its simple melody is stretched a bit thin over its fiveminute duration, which sets the tone for this often loose, occasionally plodding batch of tunes. The droppednote swing of \"The Peacock's Eye\" loses much of its momentum during a halfhearted instrumental interlude, and even the sugary chorus of \"It Made You Dumb\" grows tired the third time around. The drumming is inventive and buoyant throughout, but it would need to be even with the addition of Jason Kirker on bass, leaving Phil Boyd to Moog and guitar, the frequent instrumental breaks are often aimless. There's an appropriately icy guitar tone and the rattle of snare taps on \"Ice Fields\", though the vocoder and siren noises are superfluous details. This track and many others are close to the syrupy vintage psyche of their labelmates and buddies in Apes, though not nearly as thorough or convincing in their psychedelic nods.While I'm not one to complain over someone taking a page from Oneida, the searing guitars and frantic organ riff of \"Milk Moustache\" is one of the few moments on the album where the band kicks up any dust. To be fair, most of these moments fall at the end of Season of Sweets, making for a record with a long, patient build rather than the usual peaks and valleys of standard album pacing. The title track takes off from that momentum with under three minutes of relentless drumming and a guitar part that's more squall than actual notes, yet with all its swagger it remains as sweetly melodic as its namesake. \"Live Like Kids\" is a 10minute finale naturally and while its melody is static, they build tension gracefully and purposefully when given the space. As for the tracks preceding it, however, they seem to split the difference between adventurous and cathartic, reaching a middle ground that appeases neither end of the spectrum. It wasn't too long ago that the Modey Lemon had amassed unexpected confidence, but Season of Sweets sounds like a band still in transition. "}