{"label":" Tee Pee","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12077/homepage_large.c2faa63d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Blackstrap","title":"Steal My Horses and Run","text":" Just when I fool myself into thinking every indie group from Sweden approaches rock from the same refreshing angle as, say, the Cardigans or Love Is All, a band like Stockholm's Blackstrap pinches me, and I remember this supposed music utopia also spawned the likes of Soundtrack of Our Lives and the Sounds. Hiding behind a readymade wall of sound, Blackstrap offers an inexhaustible array of profound reverb and fulltilt choruses. As tempting as their shoegaze habit sounds on paper, the band's delusions of arena rock grandeur render sophomore album Steal My Horses and Run a real unpretty piece of art. Considering the band's countless similarities to fellow Tee Pee acts the Warlocks and Brian Jonestown Massacre, it'd be easy to construct a retconned bio of Blackstrap growing up in some unsavory West Coast city, hooked on heroin and handmedown 45s. Fistpumping fuzz anthems play tag team with languished blues ballads, and the track titles (e.g. \"Lay Down Low\", \"The Bitter, The Sweet\", \"Still Sore\") make no bones about the pathos here. Regardless of drugtest results and geographical fawning, though, these Swedes ape mindaltering genres in the most organized, deliberate manners possible. Whereas the BJM or Warlocks obsess over a particular niche of psychrock for entire albums at a time, Blackstrap's sensibilities fall in line with more polished, accessible \"bad boys\" like Black Rebel Motorcycle Club and the Dandy Warhols.  Every track on Steal My Horses gets exactly the sound it wants, from the sweeping open chords of the Swervedriverinspired \"City Beat\" to the dust bowl acoustic on \"Still Sore\". Ironically, the immaculate execution of all these styles causes the album to sound homogenous in its uniform cleanliness. The shared vocal duties between Jonatan Westh and Maria Lindén staves off the hohum songwriting, but only to a point. The Lindenled \"Repulsion\", the band's closest stab at MBV, contains more hooks than the rest of the record put together. At Westh's brightest spots, he rivals 120 Days' Ådne Meisfjord for the \"Scandinavian Bono\" title, but he often fails to match his band's instrumental pompousness. \"Lay Down Low\", for one, gets sloppy with U2's \"Elevation\" formula, juxtaposing an enginerevving verse with a mildmannered psych chorus.Steal My Horses' shortcomings ultimately stem from their desire to suck all the playfulness out of genres already hurting for some levity. There's not one lyric or riff that sticks in your brain by the album's conclusion. This would be fine if the band's goal were atmospheric shoegaze, but the rigid versechorusverse patterns of these songs suggest a kind of immediacy the tracks can't deliver. While no one wants another Anton Newcombesized ego in indie rock, a little bit of animal magnetism wouldn't hurt this band, not when their most charismatic member is the effects pedal. "}