{"label":" David Karsten Daniels","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12079/homepage_large.217eec36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"David Karsten Daniels","title":"Fear of Flying","text":" \"When you cease to walk/ Your bones turn to chalk,\" twentysomething David Karsten Daniels moans in longdrawn, halting breaths, sounding like an old man ineffectively raging against the dying of the light. The weary ache of \"Wheelchairs\" sets the stage for a concept album of sorts. Fear of Flying, Daniels' fifth solo (but only second widely available) LP is a collection of songs inspired by his grandparents' physical decline, songs that flip thoughtfully through some complex, if wellthumbed, existential issues: mortality, God, and the struggle for faith.A former member of North Carolina's Bu_Hanan musical collective, Daniels recently uprooted to Seattle, but brackish Appalachian groundwater still seeps from his rustic compositions. And his leftcoast migration aside, Daniels again garnered studio support from the tarheel colleagues who backed him on 2007's Sharp Teeth. A backwoods orchestra of strings, keys, and, unexpectedly, saxophone populates the otherwise bare branches of slowsurging folkpop song \"Martha Ann\", and a female vocalist's warm and vigorous harmonies extend Daniels' limited range. \"Oh, Heaven Isn't Real\" is a blasphemous rebuttal from the pews, a handclapped and howled hootenanny arguing that \"Hell is a lie, hell is a lie/ The preacher's up there trying to get you to make nice.\" It's the only cut here that exudes unfettered joy, and its catchy churchditching chorus is the album's biggest takeaway.Not to say that some of Daniels' more austere efforts aren't compelling. An anxiously pounded singlechord piano figure boldly underlines \"Falling Down\"'s blackhumored account of a catastrophic car accident. \"In My Child Mind You Were a Lion\", slowly piles layers of organ glow and cymbal sizzle on a foundation of ruminative fingerpicking for the kind of longcoming catharsis familiar to Jason Molina fans. Its musical drama is wellearned: \"Lion\"'s lyrics probe the devastating and universal experience of witnessing seemingly allpowerful parents shrink to husks before your eyes.Molina, however, isn't the sologuywithguitar with whom most people will compare Daniels. No, the elephant in this particular room is a scragglybearded Kentuckian with royal affectations. Daniels' kinship of timbre and phrasing (not to mention, some overlapping lyrical concerns) with Will Oldham forces a contest in which Daniels places second. Too often, Fear of Flying forces its profundity, as in the lifecycle lesson, \"Every Time a Baby is Born\" or the Lord's Prayer recital of \"Evensong\", which, as the final track, strands the album on an ambivalent, unsatisfying plateau. No one expects a modest singersongwriter to solve humanity's basic quandaries in 11 songs, but Daniels could learn something from Oldham: In the midst of death we are in life and might as well live, love, lust, even sin, while we wait for the Reaper's cart to come around and collect us.   "}