{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12086/homepage_large.671526a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The War on Drugs","title":"Wagonwheel Blues","text":" The War on Drugs make excellent roadtrip music. As its title implies, the Philly quintet's debut, Wagonwheel Blues, is Americana reimagined as blacktop and yellow lines, rubber tires, and overpriced gasoline. The album urges you along the interstate, but never burdens you with the stigma of roots music or reachedfor authenticity. Of course, the band invokes the usual influences: Adam Granduciel sings like Bob Dylan, spewing a torrent of words in accusatory secondperson (\"Chasin' squirrels around your property/ Makin' sure that they know that this is your kingdom\"), and the band nods to fellow Philadelphians Marah, to the Waterboys, and of course, to the Boss himself. The Felice Brothers drove the same roads on their recent selftitled album, but where those upstate New Yorkers treated their Band dynamic as a link to a past more imagined than real, the War on Drugs filter these elements through the noise of early Yo La Tengo and Sonic Youth. Their songs are tangles of guitar, distorted harmonica, and droning organ, all wrapped so tightly that they become indistinguishable.Following a free digital EP, Barrel of Batteries, where two of these songs originate, Wagonwheel Blues sounds modern, outsize, and urban. On opener \"Arms Like Boulders\", guitars dart like tracers as Granduciel sings about...well, like Dylan, his lyrics demand some extreme parsing, giving few concrete details in favor of a general sense of subject matter and attitude. The War on Drugs' concerns, however, aren't necessarily narcotic, as their regrettable band name might suggest, but largely ecological and occasionally political: \"And so now that you realize that planets are spheres with oil on the inside / And your God is only a catapult waiting for the right time to let you go into the unknown.\" On \"Taking the Farm\", Granduciel picks up that thought again: \"You can feel it in the ozonezonezone/ You can feel it in my knees knees knees,\" he sings above the controlled din, savoring the scatlike repetition and the long vowels. He may be referring either to the general buzz of bad omens or to the song itself, which adds a drum loop to their established formula, speeds things up, makes it infectious, then implodes in an ominous guitar finale. Back to back, these two tracks make an enormous first impression.Immediately following that pair of openers is the instrumental \"Coast (Reprise)\", despite the fact that the song it's nominally reprising doesn't come until much later in the album. It seems like such an odd choice in sequencing chasing two defining tracks with an atmospheric aside but their madness becomes more methodical with repeated listens. In fact, the War on Drugs have divided their debut into three sections separated by two instrumentals. It's a curious tactic: \"Coast (Reprise)\" and \"Reverse the Charges\" build openroad ambience with cascading guitars and synths, and although they can be repetitive and overlong, these buffer tracks generate an immersive lurch and lull, which makes Wagonwheel Blues distinctively roadworthy.Beyond that, they reveal the band to be more than simply a backdrop for Granduciel's familiar singing and songwriting. Wagonwheel Blues is largely a collaboration between multiinstrumentalists Granduciel and Kurt Vile (whose own album, Constant Hitmaker, elaborates on this solid approach), and they emphasize sound and song equally, showing a wide musical range despite the limited elements. \"Buenos Aires Beach\" churns a trippy dread with filtered acoustic guitar, psychrock organ, and a military snare rhythm. Slurred guitar notes hoist \"There Is No Urgency\" aloft, with only faint drums as ballast. And \"Show Me the Coast\" is a 10minute epic that devolves into what might best be described as the E Street Band doing shoegazer.On Wagonwheel Blues, the War on Drugs' approach comes across as not only natural, but imminently worthwhile, as if these revered sources needed to be roughed up a bit to sound new. So the Arcade Firesale organ on \"A Needle in Your Eye #16\" (one of the best approximations of that band's cathedralsize sound) may initially seem immodest against Granduciel's classicrock vocals and the relentless snare rhythm, but the War on Drugs aren't just another indie band with arena ambitions. Instead, they craft a big sound for their big ideas, so that Wagonwheel Blues fills the space between horizons. "}