{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12101/homepage_large.8976a08d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Woelv","title":"Tout Seul dans la Forêt en Plein Jour, Avez-Vous Peur?","text":" Geneviève Castrée, the Québecois expat who records cobwebbed dronefolk as Woelv, and Phil Elvrum, the Microphones maestro whom Castrée moved to the States to marry, seem like a match made in heaven. Both are multimedia aficionados who conflate the natural world with lost innocence. Both tread a thin line between childlike wonder and childlike fear. And both make music that moves by feel through phases of power and delicacy. While Elvrum was already known as a musician when he began supplementing his music with lavishly illustrated books, Castrée was a wellregarded comics artist before she began releasing music to supplement her comics. Her works have been published by underground pacesetters like Drawn & Quarterly, and consist of either stylized storybook tableaux with saturated colors, or heavily shadowed dream worlds that suggest techniques of etching and intaglio.On Tout Seul dans la Forêt en Plein Jour, AvezVous Peur? (roughly: \"Alone in the forest in the middle of the day, are you scared?\"), Castrée translates both of her primary artistic modes to music at times, the songs stand out bright and clear; at others, they dissolve into deep contrast. In the first half of \"Drapeau Blanc\", over a few tentatively picked acoustic guitar notes, Castrée's meandering voice suggests a Frenchspeaking, doubletracked Joanna Newsom; the song floats like one limpid line. In the second half, the great blocky shapes of drums and elegiac whistles plunge this line into shadow, breaking its edges on sharp corners.If Castrée's striking voice and the album's wooly atmosphere are Woelv's strengths, then structural imbalance is its weakness. The song lengths are haphazard, ranging from 48 seconds to over 12 minutes, which might be an admirable example of form following function if one didn't often wish the short songs were longer and the long songs were shorter. \"La Fille Qui S'Est Enfermée dans La Salle de Bains\" is a wonderful madrigal, with three Castrées chirping in rococo harmony; would that it were longer than a minute, and that the nighttime field recordings closing out the title track were less than eight. Likewise, the circular guitar figure and vaguely Middle Eastern singing of \"(Réconciliation)\" scarcely have time to work their hypnotic magic before petering out.Nevertheless, any number of terrific moments wash by in the album's uneven flow, many of them evoking some subterranean disturbance: the muffled, distorted percussion that inserts latent menace into \"La Petite Cane Dans la Nappe de Pétrole\", the cymbals that knife their way through the rumbling piano of \"Au Viol!\", and the wowing drone the wends through the hand percussion of \"L'Homme Qui Vient de Marcher Sur une Mine\". These also reinforce the album's sense of a lost child's awe and terror in la forêt there are many amazing things to see and do, but there are also loups, padding concealed through the underbrush. "}