{"label":" Riot Season","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12118/homepage_large.83ac4771.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Shit and Shine","title":"Cherry","text":" Shit and Shine are a collective out of England and Texas, though it's hard to say from Cherry where any one member contributes, or even where the sound manipulation stops and the band begins. The record's vocals are often sampled from unknown sources, and only by the fifth track can you hear anything that sounds like a member of the band though it should be mentioned, even here it's a distorted, unintelligible howling that sounds like a demon's confession. The concert on the DVD included with the CD edition shows a communal live show, four or five drummers on the same beat, four people crowded around one table filled with keyboards and programmers. Most of these songs loop brief snippets of sound, only for the band to let it run for a minute before laying a queasier texture on top. The record's diversity and cutandpaste nature make Cherry sound like a forgotten tape collection, dusty and suffering water damage, getting ripped, gutted, and made into a skulking cassettetape mummy.We hear what sounds like chanting children trapped in a reverb cavern segueing into drums that sound stolen from Gary Glitter with a vintage radio voiceover that may as well be reciting a Hubert Selby novel. \"Honestly Don't\" takes bargainbasement metal riffery from the early 1980s and loops and stretches it until it ceases to make sense, while you could tell me \"Charm and Counter Charm\" was \"Erotic City\" played backwards and I'd probably believe you; its vulgar drum machine hiccups are turned into gobbling video game villains, and the whole track becomes impish and sinister. Some tracks are subtly subversive, like the repetitive watery guitar tones and stiff, ominous drumming that dominate \"Flower Petal Sword\" or \"Prize Winning\", while strange vocal effects like the cooing alien noise of the latter handily provide listeners with the creeps. Diverse as the album is, there's still some straightup scareyourparents noise, be it the ugly distorted barks of \"If You Knew Susie\", the yawning sludge of the title track, or the popping fireworkslike squeals that turn to screams from the staticladen inbetweenstation zones of the radio dial.While closing tracks \"High Brooms\" and \"The Rabbit Song\" are allowed the space to breath and drift to more natural conclusions, many tracks on Cherry end abruptly, given either just enough time or a little less to develop. The transitions are sudden and split the difference between thrilling and clumsy, as if they were edited while blindfolded. These abrupt jumpcut edits don't always serve the individual track, but they give the record as a whole its own energy and peculiar logic. The execution isn't perfect on every track, certainly, but Cherry is a great example of a record becoming more than the sum of its parts. Instead of treating the palette of noiserock as nothing but different shades of confrontational or disorienting, they look at it as having limitless boundaries and Shit and Shine actually have the ideas to take advantage of it. "}