{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12108/homepage_large.f315da11.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Osborne","title":"Osborne","text":" Detroit artist Osborne has a storied mechanical past that includes work on airplanes and even a proposal for a hovercraft, but little on his selftitled debut suggests the presence of a heady tinkerer who looks good in coveralls. That's not a knock. For one thing, he does look good in coveralls. For another, Osborne traffics in an immediate and simple brand of electronic music in which the finer points of \"sound,\" rather impressively, prove immaterial.What matters most to Osborne (who also operates much differently under his noisy breakbeat guise as Soundmurderer) is melody and mood, and they matter a lot. Nothing on his new album was conceived to go together in a cohesive fashion, which makes the disc a slapdash collection of different ideas and approaches more than an album per se. What pulls it all together (or at least keeps it all from spinning out of orbit) is a shared reverence for the most engaging and \"musical\" aspects of dancemusic strains that don't necessarily need either to thrive.Osborne's sweetspot is Chicago house circa the 1980s, the kind of clacking makeshift machine music that sounds like it was made with crumpled graphpaper and woodblocks drilled through with wires. But whereas followers might have expected Chicago simulations through and through (the first Osborne single, after all, was called \"Bout Ready to Jak\"), Osborne fans out to take in lots of different sounds, most of them of aging vintage but none of them subjugated by the past. It's a tricky sleightofhand move that could probably only work on an album that skips around too much to even begin to settle on what sounds might signify outside the tracks they're meant to serve. \"Sound\" in that sense as a measure of style as well as a significant aural thing means less than whatever is happening to it. Which is worth keeping in mind during a track like \"16th Stage\": The albumopener starts almost aggressively unpromisingly, with a hohum beat and plinky notes from a keyboard seemingly set to mimic the hokey theme to \"Doogie Howser, M.D.\" As it builds, however, the keyboard figure starts to reveal stirring little details made all the more emotive by newly introduced murmurs of voice, a splash of hihat, and subtle synth runs that go a long way in the service of harmony. What starts off as a vaguely embarrassing anachronism turns into a smart and rousing revelation in eight short minutes. Nothing else on the album ventures into sounds quite so hazardous as that \"Doogie\" synth, but Osborne's tracks all have a way of hiding surprise in seemingly generic or indistinct settings. \"Downtown\" mimics baggy rave house with a lot of restraint and poise, while \"Suffer\" courts chillout rooms of yore with a melody more expansive and compelling than would be necessary for the cause. Osborne's intricate hooks and phrases play well at low and midtempo, but he's at his best when flinging ideas at charging dance tracks like \"L8\", which makes a rare legitimate claim for the kind of drama and sweep mastered by Chicago house legend Larry Heard (aka Mr. Fingers). Then comes \"Ruling\", an infectious snatch of splashy house that goes deep into disco with a soulful vocal sample and a bassline so cool it sounds distracted and ready to do its duty only if it can find the time. (It does.)Osborne wanders too far afield at times, especially on the tribal banger \"Afrika\" and \"Our Definition of a Breakdown\", a wouldbe housedemonstration track with vocal announcements of what's coming before it comes. But even as it meanders out of shape, the album always manages to find weird and sneaky ways to snap back and then snap to. "}