{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12137/homepage_large.fca441c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan McGarvey","artist":"Daedelus","title":"Love to Make Music To","text":" There are 50 ways to leave your lover, and Daedelus (aka Los Angelesbased electronic composer and trained jazz man Alfred WeisbergRoberts) wants to sell you 15 more. Love to Make Music To, his ninth album since 2002's Invention and first on Ninja Tune explores love and lust in all their facets, but never quite gets there.LTMMT's global shortcoming is a catalogue of microerrors: the clashing of chintzy, tipglass pianos and chattering hihats that make \"Get Off Your HiHats\" sounds like a castoff from a mid90s car racing game; a vanishing bassline that tosses wincingly bad verses from Paperboy and Taz into the naked foreground of \"Touchtone\"; \"Drummery Jam\" and its timbremuddling shifts from 808s to yet another chintzy piano loop; the Xed out lounge ballad \"I Car(ry) Us\" leading off with a female voice whispering \"I'm so high!\"; the woeful song titles; the touretteesque shifts in mood and timbre; the goofy album cover. Daedelus may be productive and talented (peep his Throw a Fit EP), this album's lack of cohesion lumps it in with any one of a thousand amorphous DJ mixes. The real pain is just how gamely LTMMT tries to show a heart. Albumopening \"Fair Weather Friends\" trots out a coy PSA vocal sample over modest handclaps: \"You know, when the weather gets warm, we get the same things on our minds as you boys do!\" Message received. The sound and sentiments keep piling and piling, but the fun keeps draining and draining. It's not that WeisbergRoberts has the wrong idea. Labelmate Ghislain Poirier tried, and fully succeeded, in grafting general concern with airy electronic earlier this year with No Ground Under, an album as sly with its globalization and political bones as LTMMT is hamfisted in romance. The difference? There is nothing meticulous about LTMMT, which loses shape in sloppy transitions, sacrificing landscape and pacing for an eagertoplease ADD. Daedelus does ocassionally display some focus: A simple backbone of bells and chants float \"You're the One\" along a breezy midtempo draft; \"Only for the Heart Strings\" works a buzzing, hornetnest synthesizer over hihats. Prefuse 73's haunting, sonically fragmented breakup epic One Word Extinguisher is the platinum standard for abstract hiphop producers embracing emotion, and while Daedelus' LTMMT is aiming for a more southern latitude (hips and areas south) than Extinguisher, it is impossible to ignore just how ragged this sounds held next to any one of a dozen of other electronic albums shooting for the same conceptual stars. Talent levels have little to do with it. WeisbergRoberts has made fine, thoughtful albums before. He'll do so again. What is at stake is the old adage from Faulkner on editing, \"kill your darlings.\" Had WeisbergRoberts edited closer, trimmed neater, and not given every move and twist a internal gold star, then LTMMT might have been a more complete record. "}