{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12133/homepage_large.afe457ae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nigeria 70: Lagos Jump, Original Heavyweight Afrobeat, Highlife & Afro-Funk","text":" Nigeria is a huge and diverse country. Expertly, thrillingly, Nigeria 70: Lagos Jump captures a CDlength slice of that diversity, taking in nearly as many styles as it has tracks to offer a brilliant panorama of the country's popular music in the 1970s, with a bit of bleed into the two adjacent decades. The compilation isn't so much an attempt to provide a crosssection or a road map to the music, though, as it is a simply great pass through the tens of thousands of LPs and 45s that were cut in Nigeria's many cities from about 1968 to 1981. Compiler Duncan Brooker and liner notes scribe Quinton Scott aren't writing a textbook, they're telling bits of a story that we in the West had largely not heard until the recent explosion in releases that chronicle the music of the era.Both men have an admirable history with the music. Brooker was responsible for the dynamite Afro Rock compilation on his own Kona imprint in 2002, while Scott's Strut label has a solid history itself as the source of the Disco Not Disco compilations, the two Club Africa volumes, Tony Allen, Segun Bucknor, Peter King and Orlando Julius reissues, and the original Nigeria 70 compilation, which was one of the first to cast light on the incredible well of great music waiting to be discovered in Africa's most populous country. Over the course of 16 tracks, you get hard funk, Afrobeat, juju, highlife, reggae, rock, psychedelia, blues, ballads, jazz, and simple, sentimental pop, not to mention fusions of all those things.Sir Shina Peters & His International Stars open the compilation with a seven minute jujufunk blast called \"Yabis\" that features a slow but relentless groove built around a constantly repeated guitar phrase and thundering percussion that features a deep, variablepitch drum. It's naturally heavy music that features a witty lead vocal poking fun at Africans with Western pretensions. If Peters' music is naturally heavy, its polar opposite might be the Peacocks Guitar Band's \"Eddie Quansa\", a lilting, weightless tribute to a Ghanaian highlife great. The guitars on the song scarcely repeat a phrase, intertwining in a constant melodic dance as the rhythm bounces and the vocals thread through, moving between solo verses and harmonized choruses.\"Eddie Quansa\" is just one of a handful of intensely beautiful songs on the disc. Rex Williams' poppy \"You Are My Heart\" is a bright and disarmingly direct love song, sung in English with great chorus harmonies and an infectious circular guitar riff that sets up an impeccably phrased solo. This song was a deserving hit and is the first of a final trio that take the listener out on a gentle note the organ that swells unexpectedly throughout Sir Victor Uwaifo & His Melody Maestroes' \"Dododo (Ekassa No. 1)\" raised some serious goosebumps the first time I heard it, and the arrangement deftly crescendos by nicking a common early rock'n'roll chord progression. Ifeanyi Eddie Okwedy & His Maymores Dance Band take us out with \"Happy Survival\", a darktoned, even ethereal song that stays grounded through its sharp and loud drums.In this respect, the compilation is sequenced in much the same way a good DJ would sequence his set, pulling the listener (who, for many of these songs, may also be a dancer). Peter's King's awesome jazzfunk track \"African Dialects\", which features ghostly vocals, Rhodes piano, and muted horns, sets a chilledout table for Dynamic Africana's \"Igbehin Lalayo Nta\", which slowly constructs an elaborate Afrobeat groove and patiently holds back the vocals until the fourminute mark. Likewise, the Immortals' cranking, brief garage rock track \"Hot Tears\" is a great come down from the 10minute Afrobeat groove and spoken narrative of Eric \"Showboy\" Akaeze & His Royal Ericos' \"Wetin De Watch Goat, Goat Dey Watcham\".If you're like me and will never get enough of vintage African pop music, this is another in a bountiful 2008 harvest of great compilations with a very distinctive feel and approach. It sits perfectly on the shelf next to Sound Way's Nigeria Special compilations and Analog Africa's African Scream Contest, not to mention Strut's own original Nigeria 70 compilation. I only hope the floodgates stay open permanently, because I can always use more discs like this. "}