{"label":" Kora","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12148/homepage_large.0f4fdf3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Gregor Samsa","title":"Rest","text":" Rest, the third album of slow and subtle motion from quadcity collective Gregor Samsa, is like the beautiful person whose face you can never quite picture. The charms invite second and third glances. But, before long, what was first instinctual becomes intellectual: You only love the face or the music because it reminds you of something you've already loved, or it aligns with your accepted idea of what pulchritude had better be. Even as it's the glint in your eye or the grace in your ear, it fails to make its own impression it's forgotten until it reappears.The old loves preventing the distinction of Gregor Samsa a band that's been releasing distended, pretty music since the beginning of this decade shape a fairly predictable litany: There's something of Sigur Rós' cathartic aplomb and afterglow; the suggestive, electric atmospheres of Europeans as varied as Jóhann Jóhannsson and Max Richter; the placid, mesmerizing motion of Kranky Records titans like Labradford and Stars of the Lid. As with Sigur Rós, relatively aggressive highs drop quickly into gorgeous lows (the end of \"Pseudonyms\" or \"First Mile, Last Mile\"). As with Jóhannsson, melodies occasionally stretch like gauze slowly unwinding ends brushing lightly against field recordings (opener \"The Adolescent\") or several distinct elements slowly bleed into one (the ways the vocals and piano sync on \"Abutting, Dismantling\"). As with Stars of the Lid, the simple phoenix of single notes creates a circadian, patternbased romanticism (\"Company\", as close to pure imitation as Rest gets). Like the forgotten face looks, Rest sounds like a map of recent, fond musical memories.Perhaps the above referents suggest a monastic or melodramatic instrumental band. Both assumptions over and undersell Gregor Samsa. Rest is, without exception, symphonic pop music, even if it exploits a set of influences different from those of a baroque baiter like Sufjan Stevens. Rest written by a core of the album's 11 contributors via email exchange between Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and Brooklyn softens the band's formerly sharp edges with generous piano, celesta, strings, and singing. During \"The Adolescent\", dreamy organ sustains and twinkling triads push against Nikki King's dreamy, doubled female vocals, while Champ Bennett's voice splits the difference between gentle percussion and chiming piano on \"First Mile, Last Mile\". \"Jeroen Van Aken\" teases with a duet refrain, as though Low's Mimi Parker and Alan Sparhawk were beckoning to one another as Charon's ferry reaches the other shore, leaving one of them behind. Most of the record's redeeming moments come when these ethereal melodies can sweep one into their slow surge.But words or, more precisely, definitions often strip music like this of abstract glory (perhaps all such bands should invent their own Hopelandic?), and Rest is no different. Images of selfdoubt and selfreflection \"I'm not going to fake this, I won't lie: there's something I'm missing\" or \"And then things seem clear: We've been lost from the start\" are the norm. Rivers Arms, this year's excellent debut from Texas duo Balmorhea, was not unlike Rest in its use of comfortable classical sounds. In its wordlessness, though, it kept contextual constraints to a minimum, allowing Balmorhea to focus and fuss over the meaning and malleability of every sound. Gregor Samsa often diverts attention from instrumental passes we've heard before with unremarkable but fair voices singing words we think we've heard before. That's not to suggest that Rest would be better if it were instrumental. It wouldn't be. Instead, singing is just another of those things that Gregor Samsa does dandily, just not well enough to be more than indistinctly easy on the ears. That is, every facet is decent. Not one is breathtaking. "}