{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12140/homepage_large.d7a66820.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Bodies of Water","title":"A Certain Feeling","text":" With a Mamas and the Papasish lineup of two men and two women, Bodies of Water blend the revivaltent theatrics of the Danielson Famile with the joyous cacophony of Tilly and the Wall and the dimly lit kraut rock of Electrelane. Only a year after their debut (Ears Will Pop & Eyes Will Blink), the L.A.based quartet led by husbandandwife team Meredith and David Metcalf have returned with a collection that plays up the communal feeling of their combined singing, but also mixes it with something shadowy and enigmatic. No longer straightforward in their blissfully SoCal reimagining of gospelpop, they now sound steeped in candlelight, moonlight, and gaslight something ephemeral that shines uncertainly in the darkness.Though A Certain Feeling maintains the expansiveness and drama of Bodies of Water's first album, it's colored more darkly. Instead of majorkey, Polyphonic Spreeesque celebrations, the overwhelmingly minorkey songs are now more hushed, haunted, or introspective. If Ears Will Pop & Eyes Will Blink was the sound of walking into a boisterous youth group service, A Certain Feeling is the sound of entering a stately cathedral. That's not say that the vibe is too grandiose or serious: \"Darling, Be Here\", the album's best track, melds a Broadwayworthy vocal melody with a proggy, Yesinfluenced guitarandorgan extended intro, and \"Water Here\" funks up the band's playful Godspell gospel with a breakdown of skronking horns and rhythmic guitars. And while Bodies of Water are always noted for their vocal prowess, those guitar parts, like the fuzzy garagerock figure that drives \"Under the Pines\" alongside a psychedelic organ vamp, showcase a newfound muscularity to David's playing and riff writing.And for those that miss the unbridled positivity of their debut, Bodies of Water close this record with their prettiest, quietest song yet. Stripped of all their reverb and built on a gently poignant piano, \"The Mud Gapes Open\" is lyrically concise, containing only eight words in its entirety. In fact, the track's only other lyric, outside of the ones in its title, is the line, \"we're not that worried,\" delivered in delicately sweet coed harmony. Which seems an appropriate note to end the album on. If Bodies of Water can continue to create such richly textured, expressive music, that's exactly how they should feel about their future. "}