{"label":" Sundazed","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12150/homepage_large.f9570b53.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"The Byrds","title":"Live at the Royal Albert Hall 1971","text":" The Byrds weren't just one of the greatest and most influential bands of all time, they were several of them. There was, of course, the original folkrock version of the Byrds, which begat the psychedelic version of the Byrds, which in turn begat the countryrock version of the Byrds, which in turn begat a hodgepodge of all those iterations before the group burned out once and for all. Each version of the Byrds likewise showcased what could generously be categorized a shifting lineup, with Roger McGuinn the sole constant up through the band's somewhat unsung end in 1973.Yet McGuinn's not the star of the lineup captured on Live at the Royal Albert Hall 1971, the masters of which the singer recently found sitting in his archives. Rather, the focal point is former bluegrass prodigy turned rocker Clarence White, whose shortlived career ended around the same time the Byrds did, when he was struck and killed by a drunk driver while loading gear. White got his start in the Kentucky Colonels, crossing paths with the Byrds several times before McGuinn eventually invited him to join in 1968 as a permanent member. His virtuoso solos and interplay with McGuinn are what kept the band interesting, especially in its later years and particularly for a band never renown for its live prowess. Albert Hall 1971 isn't the Byrds' only live album portions of 1970's (Untitled) were recorded live, and 2000 saw the release of Live at the Fillmore  February 1969. By this point the band's flame was growing dimmer, its focus diffuse, and you can hear the roots of the nascent jamband movement as the songs' melodies give way to relatively aimless noodling. Just listen to how Bob Dylan's \"My Back Pages\" is given a rushed and busy reading en route to a rendition of Jimmy Reed's \"Baby, What You Want Me to Do\" which recalls what the Grateful Dead (also frequently drawn to Reed) was up to on its parallel folkrock route.A few of the Byrds' better known songs are well represented, but renditions of \"So You Want to be a Rock 'n' Roll Star\" and \"Mr. Spacemen\" are loose and hardly definitive. The setlist is also distractingly schizophrenic, veering from the likes of \"Lover of the Bayou\" to Dylan's laidback \"You Ain't Goin' Nowhere\" with little in the way of segue. Singing lead on a handful of songs, such as Jackson Browne's \"Jamaica, Say You Will\", White offers a vocal counterpart to McGuinn, but the harmonies from the band's heyday are largely nowhere to be found. The a cappella \"Amazing Grace\" that closes the set is a far cry from the McGuinn, Gene Clark, David Crosby, and Chris Hillman frontline that helped make the band famous.But then there's the guitar. McGuinn and White tear it up on cuts like \"Jesus Is Just Alright\" and \"Lover of the Bayou\". \"There are so many songs we'd all like to hear, and there are so many songs we'd like to do for you, but there's only a little bit of time,\" apologizes McGuinn before someone requests \"Nashville West\". \"You want to play that one, Clarence?\" he asks, before letting White off his leash. Even acoustic, the pair shines. The traditional \"Black Mountain Rag/Soldier's Joy\" includes two of the disc's best minutes, easing into a 12string free \"Mr. Tambourine Man\", Woody Guthrie's \"Pretty Boy Floyd\", and Leadbelly's \"Take a Whiff (On Me)\", tracks that showcase McGuinn and White sans clunky rhythm section. Indeed, the two later lead a radically reworked \"Eight Miles High\" past the 18minute mark, but that also includes a lengthy interlude featuring the plodding bassist Skip Battin and drummer Gene Parsons who, frankly, drag down the John Coltraneinspired epic (the liners note the section was mostly inserted to give McGuinn and White a cigarette break). It's partly their fault that Live at the Royal Albert Hall 1971 never quite reaches the heights McGuinn and White aim for, but it's also clear, instrumental aptitude or not, that the Byrds had moved beyond the logical end of its creative road. Listening to this set, it's easy to imagine the band deciding to tour forever, like the Dead did, existing for fleeting moments of ephemeral glory while memories of its better days faded away. But that was not to be, and in retrospect, with fine but hardly earthshattering documents such as this one as proxy witness, pulling the plug was probably for the best. "}