{"label":" Nacional","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12156/homepage_large.7047e300.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Manu Chao","title":"Estacion Proxima: Esperanza","text":" Reading the news section on Manu Chao's website, you have to wonder whether you're looking at an artist's updates or some sort of multilingual, alternate reality CNN ticker. In between items about tour and festival dates, written in a mix of French, Spanish, Italian, German, and English, there are updates on the Saharawi independence movement in Western Sahara, Colombia's FARC rebels, and other causes and interests of the singer. This is only fitting for a musician who makes leftwing politics the lyrical centerpiece of his relentlessly globalist music and happens to be good friends with the Zapatistas' Subcomandante Marcos.Chao is a superstar in Europe and Latin America but hasn't quite connected in the U.S., a country where his politics can seem fringy even to the left. But leaving aside his ideological drive and tendency to sing in up to seven languages on his albums (English among them), his music has a meltingpot logic to it that actually seems quite wellsuited to a diverse society like ours. It's easy to look at his history, compare it to where he is now, and conclude that Chao was destined to become a musician without borders he was born in France to a Galician father and Basque mother who were living in exile from Franco's Spain, which made him a dual minority in his ancestral homeland and part of an immigrant family in the country of his birth.Chao spent more than a decade playing in punkinfluenced rock bands, including Los Carayos and Mano Negra, the latter of which punched his ticket to notoriety with its strange tours of South America by boat and train. In the late 90s, Mano Negra split up and Chao recruited musicians from Europe, Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina into his new band, Radio Bemba Sound System, which he named partly for the word of mouth communication system favored by Fidel Castro and Che Guevara during their revolutionary campaign in Cuba (radio bemba is a Cuban colloquialism akin to rumor mill, bemba meaning lip). He recorded his first solo album, 1998's Clandestino, with this loosely assembled band.His current label, Nacional, perhaps looking toward the wider exposure Chao gained in the U.S. with last year's La Radiolina, has now reissued Chao's second and third albums, Proxima Estacion: Esperanza and the live album Radio Bemba Sound System. Esperanza, whose title translates to Next Station: Hope, a reference to a stop on the Madrid transit system, has a unique feel, flowing like a blockslong street party through 17 varied tracks. By the time of the album, Chao had moved mostly away from his punk musical roots in favor of a sound that incorporated elements of Spanish and Latin American folk, reggae, African rhythm, and hiphop, as well as samples of crowds, radio broadcasts, and individual voices.The album is not quite the masterpiece it is occasionally framed as (it was huge in parts of Europe, where just after it came out you couldn't escape the image of its cover), but it is a very good, cohesive, and internally consistent record that functions as a continuous suite. Chao's adenoidal voice is not spectacular, but it ably delivers his multilingual message of universal justice and equality, and helps him keep his melodies simple and straightforward. Many tracks are brief, textural excursions that serve as connective tissue between more fully developed songs.The way the Cubanstyle horns rise on \"Eldorado\" is reminiscent of a car driving by with the windows open and the stereo up, \"Papito\" is a nearly unclassifiable mix of ska, Roma brass, circus music, New Orleans street funeral, and European pop, while closer \"Infinita Tristeza\" is an urban soundscape, casting somber acoustic guitar and organ into a sea of voices speaking different languages. Reggae beats figure prominently, mixing with surf guitar on \"Me Gustas Tu\", and subtly buoying the sonarish lead guitar on \"Homens\".Radio Bemba Sound System captures a 2001 live performance featuring songs from Esperanza, Clandestino, and the albums of Mano Negra. The recording, a blend of two performances, never lets up, packing all or part of 29 songs into an hour, and I think it captures the inclusive spirit of Chao's music even better than his studio work. The cheers at the end of \"Bienvenida a Tijuana\" when the final line offers a ringing endorsement of sex and marijuana are amazing, and the transformation of punky Mano Negra songs such as \"Peligro\", \"The Monkey\", \"Mala Vida\", and \"Machine Gun\" into multigenred beasts is something to hear. \"Machine Gun\", for instance, begins as slow reggae, kicks up to a quick ska gear and ends as a blazing punk song.Chao's 10piece band is extremely versatile, augmenting a standard rock setup with horns, accordion, and extra percussion. They leap from reggae to funky merengue to punk to flamenco with flourishes of surf, blues, North African rai, Central African rumba, mariachi, and rock'n'roll while also switching languages, sometimes in midsong. Esperanza's subdued reggae track \"Mr. Bobby\" is much funkier live, with a great psychedelic guitar solo and second, dancehallish vocal from Bidji. Because it samples two shows, a few songs appear twice but that feels like an appropriate side effect of the collage approach. My biggest complaint is the way the sound obviously cuts back and forth between recordings the fades on the crowd noise can be very abrupt and even distracting.Each reissue appends a bit of bonus video content, which is plenty worth watching, but there are no audio extras. Essentially, this is a chance for Americans who missed out on these records the first time to hear one of the world's most popular musicians. They're definitely worth the investment for anyone who loves popular music that blurs the lines between cultures and sounds. "}