{"label":" Ba Da Bing!","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1195/homepage_large.1da15017.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Beirut","title":"Gulag Orkestar","text":" My grandparents were Russian immigrants who spent their lives working in factories; when they got too old for that, they graduated to the cafeteria of a Queens high school. Visiting them as a kid, the thick accents of their incomprehensible language were, to me, the music of the socalled \"motherland.\" When grandpa was spinning records, though, he opted for melancholic horns and voices or polka. He may have dug Gulag Orkestar, the debut album by Zach Condon aka Beirut. Beirut's received quite a bit of prerelease buzz. He deserves some of it. His tuneful Balkan stomp is fairly unique within the indie realm, an aesthetic shared with Man Man, Gogol Bordello, and Barbez but few others. That, and for a 19yearold from Albuquerque (now living in Brooklyn), he sounds like an old man sipping vodka and humming along to Tchaikovsky while the neighborhood kids play stick ball or drink egg creams. The sound is there, but beneath the atmospherics his themes of war, fallen curtains, bunkers, life on the Rhine his song titles are more fixated on Germany (and Slovakia and an imaginary Eastern Bloc) than Russia and Gulags, are vague and sometimes less than effective. That makes sense: He doesn't have the lived experience for those situations. Perhaps he studied W.G. Sebald to add some color, and in a very Sebaldian move the album's anonymous cover photos were found in a library in Leipzig, Germany. In the liner notes, Condon asks if anyone knows the photographer's whereabouts. Beirut's brassy In the Aeroplane Over the Sealike instrumental accents have garnered Neutral Milk Hotel comparisons. There's also guilt by association exNMH player Jeremy Barnes and his A Hawk and a Hacksaw compatriot Heather Toast contribute accordion, violins, and percussion. But while Condon writes generally spare, pretty tableau that can lodge themselves in your ear like hazy memories, his words aren't as intellectually, emotionally, or erotically invested as Mangum's feverish, tearjerky lyrics. And that's OK it's unfair to hold a debut record up to one of the bona fide indie classics of the past 10 years. I mention it only to squash the impulse at the root, because exaggerated expectations shouldn't dissuade anyone from enjoying Beirut's best work, chiefly the gorgeous triumph \"Postcards From Italy\", an infectious, Rufus Wainwrighttinged love/death story accented by loping majorette drumming, a menagerie of horns, and a plucky ukulele lilt that mixes perfectly with Condon's airy croon. Elsewhere, \"Bratislava\" is a celebratory march for the Slovakian capital a sweaty, sawdusted cabaret jam with Gogol Bordello. It's at moments like these, his vocals placed further back in the mix, that you realize the kid sounds truly authentic and captivating. In the bubblier chill of \"Scenic World\", Condon arms the troops with dinky Six Cents & Natalie Casio drum machines and brings them into Magnetic Fields and Jens Lekman territory. It's two minutes of pretty pop, plain and simple. At the end, amid horn flourishes, accordion, and doubled vocals he sings, \"I try to imagine a careless life/ A scenic world where the sunsets are all breathtaking\" he holds the last word, letting it swoon and flutter, like Morrissey with a hammerandsickle BandAid on his nipple. Time and again, the most powerful element of Gulag Orkestar, and what ought to be emphasized, is Condon's acrobatic, powerful, emotionally nuanced voice. It could carry any style of music. Fixate for a second on the stuff he's doing on \"Rhineland (Heartland)\". The lyrics are dopey, but his trills and whirls are mindblowing. Pairing these melodies with Eastern European accouterments in lieu of standard guitarpop creates an obvious appeal. Still, the question ought to be asked: Are the songs really so incredible or do they simply mimic and mine musical traditions unfamiliar to the average indie rock fan? That said, the best songs here are a joy and the average and hohum tunes even have a thick and aesthetically appealing atmosphere in other words, it's an impressive and precocious debut. "}