{"label":" Wizard / Unseen Worlds","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12168/homepage_large.446675c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Carl Stone","title":"Woo Lae Oak","text":" The Texan label Unseen Worlds reissues, in their words, \"accessible avantgarde music\" a claim that suggests they're either idealistic or lying. Thankfully, the reality is as blurry and lustrous as the rhetoric: With two recent releases, of Carl Stone's 1983 tape piece Woo Lae Oak and Elodie Lauten's 1985 opera The Death of Don Juan, they continue to document a postpattern style of composition that aspired to a humility and looseness uncommon in modern classical music. It's music that kept ties to the academy, but didn't bleat its pedigree, music that often sounded uncomplicated; small, even. It's not accessible most listeners don't seek out 56minute drone pieces but it is, in a way, approachable.Woo Lae Oak, commissioned in 1981 by CalArts as a piece for radio broadcast or live performance, is a drone built on two sounds: an unspecified string, continuously rubbed for a tremolo effect, and air passing through a chamber a flute, or the sound of someone blowing across the mouth of a bottle. The sounds are recorded onto tape, layered, sped up, and slowed down. In the album's original liner notes, Alan Rich called it a \"musical ground zero.\" But more than a ground zero, Woo Lae Oak is an amnesiac for itself, an everrenewing blank slate. The problem with assessing records like this is that they rely on the listener's tolerance and imagination, which, comfortingly for all parties involved, nobody has any control over. Some might hear it as a gorgeous expanse, as therapeutic and undemanding as warm tea; others might hear it as foofy, inert bullshit peddled by charlatans to suckers who would stoop to intellectualize a rock.But for the converted and reluctant alike, some qualities of Woo Lae Oak stick. When Stone layers his sounds, the overall picture doesn't expand, it blurs. No logic surfaces, no figure takes shape. As a result, it burdens its audience with freedom an impossibly unmemorable experience that feels different on every listen. And unlike many drones, Woo Lae Oak has no earthy, imperial frequencies, no rumble. Stone even named the piece after the Chinese restaurant of his choice, a selfeffacing gesture that acknowledges peace as marketable chintz where other composers might aspire to recreate ancient prayer scrolls, Stone takes refuge in fortune cookies. Even when I can't fully immerse myself in it, I leave with the important lesson that there's no inherent grandeur to size, no necessary seriousness to serenity.Lauten's The Death of Don Juan a more structured piece leaves me feeling more ambiguous. At her most conservative, she hugs traditions forged by Terry Riley or, to an extent, Steve Reich: motorized pentatonicscale keyboard patterns overlapping endlessly, with melodies swelling out of the mix. In other sections \"Duel\" or \"Despair\" she hashes noise, samples, speech, and guitar, a marker of a time in composition where, especially in New York, \"composers\" could've easily been mistaken for lead singers or the homeless. (Among other downtown musicians on Don Juan, Arthur Russell, who traversed and unified art, rock, and classical worlds, plays cello and sings.) It's Lauten's unwillingness to settle Don Juan is alternately mystical and exuberant; it marches stiffly for minutes on end and then dissolves into noodling that makes it a milestone. As a recording, it has a remarkably diverse vocabulary. But the slang of 1985 is the vernacular of 2008, and even in Lauten's most beautiful moments, the work dates itself in distracting ways. Call it the unique burden of being an innovator. And though both of these works were released in an era of great, likeminded composers Robert Ashley (especially Perfect Lives and Atalanta), Meredith Monk, \"Blue\" Gene Tyranny (whose Out of the Blue was Unseen Worlds' first release) they're essential as points on a map being drawn 20 years after the territory was first discovered. As a phrase, \"accessible avantgarde\" might stretch the reality, but it clings to the ambition. "}