{"label":" Mad Decent","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12162/homepage_large.26b9eb41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Diplo / Santogold","title":"Top Ranking","text":" A fashionable, upcoming singer with 5,012 crazyass bloggers for fans? Check. The opportunity to piggyback on that artist's widescreen view of music as a philosophical jumpingoff point for your own dilettantish DJ inclinations? Yup. More dancehall dubplates than you've got waking minutes for? Uh huh. On paper, Diplo's second artistcentered mixtape might seem like an attempt to recapture the lightning he bottled with the first, but to stop at that shallow assessment would be doing Top Ranking a pretty big disservice. In the end, the similarities between this collaboration and Diplo's first 2004's M.I.A.trumpeting Piracy Funds Terrorism mix are as superficial as those between M.I.A. and Santogold themselves.For one thing, it's a different time not just in the year (Top Ranking comes in time for the summer's hottest months, whereas Piracy Funds Terrorism dropped in December, sparking an extended MayaisthenewSanta Clause riff from an exuberant Nick Sylvester) or in each parent album's release cycle (Arular hadn't even been issued yet, whereas Santogold is months fresh), but also in music. Piracy Funds Terrorism was more than a great mix, it was also a crystallization of a lot of parallel arcs that were trending upwards at the time: the emergence and influence of the Diplo/Hollertronix/Low Budget crew, and the legitimization of mashups as promotional vehicles for new music.Top Ranking has none of those things going for it. Santogold's best songs are already in the public consciousness, Diplo and his crew are respected but hardly upstarts, and the mashup's appeal is gradually waning. If anything, by returning to this format with an artist so frequently derided as an M.I.A. knockoff, Diplo probably opened the door for lots of charged questions regarding his own aesthetics and personal politics. If he were an inveterate cool chaser, as he's often accused of being, this wouldn't be the move he'd make.A lot of those questions resolve themselves in the music. Where PFT was authoritative, electric, and undeniably of its time, Top Ranking feels less immediate, and less like an attempt to surf any one particular wave. Spanning hiphop, reggaeton, new wave, classic rock, indie rock, club, reggae, and dubstep, it's far rangier than its predecessor. Whether that actually helps or hinders it is up for debate (the mix doesn't really get going until the second act, after an opening chapter that includes a bumpy Aretha Franklin/Devo/B52's/Gerri & the Holograms detour), but credit Diplo with playing to his artists' tastes. Just as PFT's muscular and slightly more styleconscious tracks reflected M.I.A.'s slightly avant and beatheavy pop, Top Ranking feels appropriately on point: It's more versatile, and digs even deeper.There's another, more obvious reason that Santogold's a smart candidate for a Diplo refix. Despite boasting strong singles like \"L.E.S. Artistes\" and \"Creator\", almost half of her debut fell flat. Under Diplo's ear, a lot of those same songs or at least bits of them get a second chance. From Diplo's mix of \"I'm a Lady\" (which features a scenestealing bubblegum verse from Philly MC Amanda Blank) to the Radioclit remix of \"Get It Up\" (on which M.I.A. herself pops up, as if to acknowledge the mix's elephant in the room and replace it with, like, real elephant sounds), Santogold owns 12 of the mix's 35 tracks. And for the most part, hers is consistently among the best material here. Even the previous showstoppers are reincarnated as showstoppers, including the pulsing, outrésounding XXXchange mix of \"L.E.S. Artistes\", which is arguably better than the original.Despite the stretch that begins with that XXXchange mix and ends with a Ratatat/Richie Spice mashup and a phenomenal foursong dubstep/grime run during the mix's final third, Top Ranking's highs aren't nearly as immediate as PFT's. What it comparatively lacks in rapidfire thrills, though, it makes up for in generosity. Clocking in at 75 minutes, this is a plentiful set from a DJ who's clearly got ideas and records to spare. As long as he keeps delivering mixes like these, all that other peripheral stuff should be inconsequential. "}