{"label":" Marriage","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12166/homepage_large.2d8feebb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Drakkar Sauna","title":"Wars and Tornadoes","text":" As the heart of flyover country, Kansas is primarily a conservative state, with a cozy college town, Lawrence, serving as its cultural hotspot. Based in Lawrence, Drakkar Sauna the duo of Wallace Cochran and Jeff Stolz embrace the rich traditions of American folk, bluegrass, and country, yet do it as outsiders, sticking to the backroads and playing up the Old Weird America eccentricities with a subversive wink. The group's Rover, for example, features a song blithely titled \"O, God, I Have a Canoe\" that's played like a murder ballad (it's about a couple escaping marauding bears). Jabraham Lincoln features \"There's Not Enough Tits on a Wolf\", a quirky blues number that references the myth of Romulus and Remus and sounds like smartypants Camper Van Beethoven had they swapped Santa Cruz for the Blue Ridge Mountains. The group has also recorded a suite nicknamed \"Very Much Alone Pentateuch\", which culminates in a chapter called \"O, Fuck, I'm Fucked. Fuck.\" Wars and Tornadoes, the duo's latest album, is a covers album that pays exclusive tribute to the Louvin Brothers, which makes sense. The Louvin Brothers clearly informed Drakkar Sauna's previous works, not to mention the fact that they were kind of eccentric themselves, singing songs refuting Satan and exploiting the atomic bomb as an excuse to get right with God, all while staying true to their gospel routes and showing off some of the best close harmonies ever recorded. To borrow the title from one of their best albums, the Louvins sang \"tragic songs of life,\" sometimes slightly tongue in cheek, mostly dead serious. Given the general goofiness of Drakkar Sauna's early works, you might predict this project will be similarly delivered with fingers crossed. But the biggest surprise may be that the disc is played totally straight, with Cochran and Stolz (and a few other friends) sticking close to the template laid out by the pioneering brothers Ira and Charlie.Tellingly, Wars and Tornadoes digs just a little deeper than the usual greatest hits, revealing a wider familiarity with the Louvins catalog of originals and interpretations and not shying away from the religious material, either. \"Tiny Broken Heart\" leads off the collection, and while the set touches on such standards as \"The Family Who Prays\" (whose lyrics give Wars and Tornadoes its name) and \"When I Stop Dreaming\", it does skip crowdpleasers such as \"Pitfall\" and \"Cash on the Barrelhead\", let alone the oft ironically covered \"Great Atomic Power\". Instead it tackles the earnest likes of \"The Weapon of Prayer\" and \"Are You Afraid to Die\", the former about the power of faith and the latter a harmoniumenriched openletter to unrepentant sinners. Each of these nine tracks is played faithfully and respectfully, right down to the rootsy arrangements and tight harmonies, a sound closer to the Louvin Brothers' heyday than the selfaware here and now.And therein lies the rub: Why bother with these expert reproductions when the real deal is yours for the listening? Several singledisc collections of the Louvin Brothers are widely available. Bear Family released an incredible 8xCD set that's worth a few hours of your life. Only a total curmudgeon wouldn't be enlightened by some time spent with the Louvin Brothers, and surely Drakkar Sauna would concede the point. That Wars and Tornadoes is made with such care and respect is almost irrelevant, since such a good faith stab at the Louvins all but demands you start instead with the real deal. If you like what you hear and you likely will, at least some of it then you can follow the Louvin Brothers' lasting, living influence down through the decades and right up to the present. Wars and Tornadoes should be the end of the road, not the beginning. "}