{"label":" Dangerbird","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12167/homepage_large.92511e9c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"The Curse of Company","title":"Leo Magnets Joins a Gang","text":" David \"Wiley\" Rennick seems like a guy with a good sense of humor. Everyman for Sydney indiepop outfit Dappled Cities, the guitarist/keyboardist/producer came up with a great name for his first trek into sideproject territory: the Curse of Company. A conceptish fourpiece that includes Sarah Kelly and Tim Rogers of the Red Sun Band and Jack Ladder, it's what someone familiar with the scene might call a Sydney supergroup. Dig or no dig, Rennick has taken a turn of understated variety. Well, sort of. Dappled Cities' last outing, Granddance, was a tasty study in upsidedown guitar pop that took comfort in stretching melodies out skillfully and often with lasting effect. But as much as Granddance boasted nuntight songwriting, its eclecticism (the scattering of pages torn from the books of bands like Flaming Lips, Shins, Strokes, and others) was often its strongest muscle set. They kicked out large (they're still reported to be releasing a followup to last year's Granddance sometime in 2009) kaleidoscopic jams, and they did it democratically.The Curse of Company departs from this vantage point; with the exception of spectral vocal calls from Kelly, this is very much the Wiley Show. And though these songs lurk in quiet spaces, the album's periodpiece aesthetic is torn of a much grander fabric. Based on the myth of Leo Magnets hermetic ruffian, wanderer, and composer, who, according to press release mystique, has beefed with Rennick since the 90s Leo Magnets Joins a Gang relies heavily on myth and not enough on Rennick's gifts for hooks. Magnets is said to hail from the Australian bush and its many vistas serve as backdrops here, though void of any healthy dollop of color. It's the sort of cinematic imbalance one could relish, but unfortunately its ideas obscure any entry point to the album more than illuminate it. In the end, it serves more as food for imagining than listening.Opener \"The Parade Devine\" sets the tone early a snarefueled march that's capsized by its own sighing, it's a caplet of the sluggish, minorchord pageantry and quietloudquietloud dynamics that cage a lot of the album's many prettier moments. Caverns worth of echo and reverb lend Rennick's vocals a distance fitting for the sort of epistolary longing his musings would require, though it strips away much of the immediacy for which these songs tend to pine just as intensely, if not more.  And though vocal interplay between Rennick and Kelly become routinely angelic (see: \"Homecoming\"), their turns mirror the few speeds this baby has: plod and clop.  Alone or together, nothing could exemplify the problem more than \"Side By Side\", a torpid waltz that wobbles and moans for just south of nine nondescript minutes. But despite that chasm in the middle of it all, \"Oh Brother\" washes dude clean of many a sin. It's a taut, rustedstring guitar closer with lines as precede them but with a catch. All that waiting and building leads somewhere: an exit point that's not only cathartic, it kinda rules. "}