{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12174/homepage_large.7c8cbc73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Philip Jeck","title":"Sand","text":" One way to learn about a culture is to retrieve and study what it throws away. The multimedia artist and turntablist Philip Jeck, then, is an excavator. He finds worn vinyl records, tinkers with their surfaces, then plays them on any number of old, sturdy turntables, allowing their layers and loops to build and fall while he folds in bits of keyboard or other effects. Jeck hears things in those old records that others don't hear a short, banal passage might be fed through a pedal just so to create a startling new sound, or a saccharine bit of Disneyfied strings might bubble up from a dark cloud of overpowering surface noise. He takes old, discarded junk and sends it back to us like a reflection.Sand is Jeck's eighth solo album and, like many of its predecessors, it's constructed in large part from edits of live performances. He dedicates it to his late mother, and there's a famous quote inside from Emily Dickinson about death, so it's about mortality on some level. I also hear Sand as a political record, because of the combination of the album's title (a possible allusion to the Middle East) and the prominent use of the patriotically charged \"fanfare\" motif in three tracks. \"Fanfares\", \"Fanfares Forward\", and \"Fanfares Over\" are the glue that holds the record together. An element in each is Aaron Copland's \"Fanfare for the Common Man\", which Copland composed in 1942 as part of series that commissioned new works to uplift a nation at war. \"Fanfares\" takes a short segment of the original, a whoosh of string and horns all warbly and tumbling over itself, adds bits of delay and noise, and gradually folds the various elements into a constantly shifting drone of overlapping loops.It's a powerful track because it triggers so many feelings simultaneously. On one level, the sterling pomp of the \"fanfare\" is the institution you want desperately to believe in. It's Cub Scouts learning how to fold the flag, the winner's circle at the Olympics, a moon landing music designed to make the heart swell. But Jeck, through the use of surface noise, processing, and editing, dips the sentiment into the acid bath of reality. Sometimes, the passages he samples are assembled to sound like \"Taps\". Indeed, you can feel something ending when you listen to \"Fanfares\", a way of life crumbling, some sort of dream slipping away. It's easy to be swept along by the mournful horns, but the constant sense that something is wrong pervades. \"Fanfares Forward\" shoves the whole burning city of the earlier track underwater, slowing things down and drowning it in an aquatic space with the highend rolled off. And the closing \"Fanfares Over\" begins with a broken, dubbedout calliope, returns to the main theme, and then explodes the whole thing in a perpetual flange filter that feels like strafing jet fighters. These are terrifically complex and layered pieces that are among Jeck's best.Unlike parts of Stoke and 7, there's never a moment here where you are unsure that you are listening to turntables. Beyond the \"fanfare\" pieces, Jeck finds passages of twinkling, almost sentimental beauty lifted from records of orchestral works (\"Chime Again\") and infuses them with poignancy through layering and repetition. He also takes bits of indeterminate sound and stretches them into thin, eerie drones that almost sound like a field recording (\"Shining\"). You could say that these other tracks find Jeck in his classic mode. On a purely sonic level, however, Sand isn't his most appealing album. It's packed with midrange information and sometimes comes over as blaring, which might suit the material but can be a little tiring to listen to. Still, in terms of its composition and the power of the music, Jeck continues to function at a high level, and he seems to have stepped up his game in terms of emotional complexity. Throughout Sand you can hear opposing forces grandeur and loss, beauty and ugliness, clarity and ambiguity bumping against each other, and the tension makes for some seriously rich listening. "}