{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12175/homepage_large.9877e13b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Steve Reich","title":"Daniel Variations","text":" Daniel Pearl, the South Asia Bureau Chief for The Wall Street Journal, was kidnapped and subsequently beheaded in January 2002 by a group of Pakistani terrorists later linked to the September 11 attacks. That's the headline, but Pearl, like anyone, was more than a few facts printed on some newsreel: Born in New Jersey and raised in California, Pearl was the son of a UCLA professor, Judea, and a mother of Iraqi Jewish descent, Ruth. He was a passionate musician and listener, playing jazz and bluegrass fiddle, buying records by Miles Davis and Antonín Dvořák, and quoting at least one song title by bebop violinist Stuff Smith in casual conversation. In 1994, he wrote a story about a Stradivarius violin, the \"Duke of Alcantara\", that someone purportedly found at a freeway onramp in Los Angeles.Steve Reich, considered to be one of the four major minimalists in American music, is best known for his 20thcentury classical innovations with phases, processes, counterpoints, and pulses. That's the synopsis, but Reich, like most any musician worth your time, means more than four techniques spread over four decades. Born in New York, Reich is the son of a Jewish father, Leonard, and a mother, June, who sang in and wrote lyrics for Broadway musicals. After his album Music for 18 Musicians became a relative commercial success, he met his wife, video artist Beryl Korot, with whom he visited Israel. They later explored shared Jewish and Muslim ancestries in a work called The Cave, and much of Reich's work has mined similar personal interests. The politics of the day have never been far behind, either. One of Reich's most famous pieces, \"Come Out\", sampled the voice of a boy who had to squeeze the blood from the blue bruises on his black skin so cops would believe he'd been beaten during 1964 Harlem riots. Reich's compositions have since explored cloning and the atomic bomb.Reich and Pearl's parallel paths meet in Daniel Variations: Conceived after a conversation between Pearl's father and Reich and commissioned in part by the Daniel Pearl Foundation, \"which is dedicated to crosscultural understanding and music,\" Daniel Variations is the latest in a long line of Reich pieces to combine massed voices and meticulous instrumentation. Sections one and three use lines from a conversation between Nebuchadnezzar the Great a Babylonian ruler who, according to Jewish and Christian texts, destroyed Jerusalem and Daniel, who became his adviser. \"I saw a dream. Images upon my bed and visions in my head frightened me,\" Nebuchadnezzar told Daniel. Those sentences are repeated three times in Reich's recasting, and their orderly presentation by the 12voice Los Angeles Master Chorale splits and stacks the syllables like the square stones of menacing palatial walls. Four minor chords pounded in pulses by pianos but stretched into tense suspensions by a string quartet offer the sense that the horizon beyond those walls will fold in, the staggered rhythms indicative of a steady tumble of troubles.Quotes from Pearl serve as Reich's fodder for the piece's triumphant even sections, two and four: Reich employees the same instruments, but he lets the violin lead many of the turns as a tribute to Pearl's own enthusiasms. This time, four major chords bounce off of one another, countering the darkness of their counterparts, even as the chorale sings one of the final sentences Pearl spoke before being beheaded on video: \"My name is Daniel Pearl.\" In the final and longest of the sections, the chorale presents a variation on a Stuff Smith song title, \"I Hope Gabriel Likes My Music\". When questioned about his belief in the afterlife, Pearl once replied with that title. \"I sure hope Daniel likes my music, when the day is done,\" the text reads here, Pearl's words augmented by Reich. The music's bounce is at first relentless, the pianos flashing quickly as the strings flit in romantic figures overhead. Gradually, it all slows, letting the liminal message a musician quotes a journalist, who once quoted another musician settle like a luminous cloud: When you're gone, will the universe approve of your contribution?That said, the most intriguing component of Daniel Variations is its reminder that what's often made Reich so daring is the humanist blood pumping into his scientifically executed forms. Daniel Variations doesn't eclipse Reich's past vocal works, and its message isn't one of courage, as some have suggested, as much as it is one of solidarity. Light versus dark, you know? It's smartly built and perfectly played, just like the record's second half, the instrumental dance \"Variations for Vibes, Pianos, and Strings\". Rhythmically and melodically, it's classic, resplendent Reich, but he's made these sounds with more vigor. Both pieces, then, are interesting without being essential, constituting the sort of record that thanks to the context of Pearl and Reich will be remembered but never mistaken as a masterwork from the composer The New Yorker once called \"the most original musical thinker of our time.\" "}