{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12173/homepage_large.1347bf22.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: The Tragar & Note Labels","text":" By 1968, Jesse J. Jones, Jr. was a seasoned veteran of the music business. He started out at 17, touring with Jimmy Witherspoon in 1948, formed his own band in 1949, and ruled the Atlanta club scene until he broke for L.A. in 1956. He also gave a young saxophonist named Ornette Coleman one of his earliest gigs. In L.A., Jones worked for Specialty Records, cut a few sides for Ebb and launched his first two labels, Lita and FourJ. It was the failure of the second imprint that cost him his home and sent him back to Atlanta.Despite being at the very heart of the chitlin' circuit, Atlanta had a relatively small independent soul scene. One of the biggest obstacles to establishing a productive black record industry in the city was a the lack of a studio that catered to it. There was no Motown, no VeeJay, no Chess, no Stax, no Revilot no one had established a bedrock label to fuel a scene that had ample live venues at its disposable. And so Jones set up shop, pulling together the best band he could, securing financial backing, and booking time at the National Recording Company studio, which until then had specialized in country music.The first few Tragar singles were good examples of music succeeding (artistically, not commercially) on the strength of passion and songwriting rather than studio expertise. Barbara \"Tokay\" Lewis penned and sang the A and Bsides of Tragar's inaugural single; the Bside, \"What Can the Matter Be\", is where her magic can be heard it's a waltztime deep soul burner stuffed with blistering blues guitar and topped with a righteously dejected vocal. Even as the label grew from the ground up, its first two years produced an amazing clutch of great music that neatly straddles the line between smoky Southern soul and the sophisticated arrangements that adorned the crossover sound of the North.Numero Group's enormous 2xCD, 50track retrospective of Tragar and its successor, Note, focuses mainly on 1968 and 1969, devoting all of Disc One and twofifths of Disc Two to those years. Good thing, too, because the labels' diverse cuts rivaled the best contemporary soul of the time. Franciene Thomas' \"Too Beautiful to Be Good\" is a stunning ballad with a billowing, sorrowful melody; L. Daniels' \"Nitecap\" is a fantastic, funky instrumental led by a big, Broadway sax; Sandy Gaye wails like a woman possessed on the burbling workout \"Watch the Dog That Bring the Bone\"; and Chuck Wilder does justice to the timeworn sad clown theme on \"The Clown\", a dejected, dramatic, and even somewhat psychedelic slowburner with a string part descended from \"It's a Man's Man's Man's World\". A couple of male vocal duos turn in exemplary cuts as well: Frankie & Robert channel Sam & Dave on \"Sweet Thing\", backed by a horn part to match, while Langston & French's \"Tumbling Down\" is its morose but sweetly soulful antithesis.The greatest discovery of Tragar's early phase, though, was Eula Cooper, who was only 14 when she had her first impromptu audition for Jones, walking into his office at 799 ½ Hunter St. and singing her own \"Shake Daddy Shake\" for him. Cooper has 11 songs on this compilation, and she's the epitome of the talented shouldhavebeen. \"Shake Daddy Shake\" was certainly good for a 14yearold, and it charted locally, but it was a warmup. Her adept and sensitive reading of the Holland/Dozier/Holland chestnut \"Love (Makes Me Do Foolish Things)\", recorded one year later, is a stunner, but it pales next to her original \"Try\", a sweeping, uptown soul number with a great vibraphone melody and mature vocal. Cooper continued to record for Jones throughout the early 70s, but she never achieved more than a local hit. \"Beggars Can't Be Choosey\", from 1973, is a fine popsoul tune, and \"Let Our Love Grow Higher\", recorded at Muscle Shoals, has a brilliant rhythm track and sharp bounce that was diverted from the charts by lack of promotion.As Jones soldiered on until financial ruin in the 70s, the sounds he was making echoed larger national trends, smoothing out and flirting with the rise of disco. A few of these are outstanding especially the Young Divines' \"Ain't That Sharp\", a swinging slice of wellhoned harmony soul that could've stood with the Stylistics if it had received the proper backing. The greatest find of Jones' later years was Alice Harper, who chose the stage name Alice Swoboda, taking the surname from a New York Yankees outfielder. Her two tracks on this compilation, both from 1972, are sophisticated soul numbers that dip into funk, psychedelia, and folk. Her selfharmonizing over the relentless clavinet groove of \"I Think It's Time (You Were Mine)\" is jawdropping, as is the shuddering orchestral arrangement that backs it, while her strange midpoint between Joni Mitchell and Nina Simone on \"Potter's Field\" is weirdly arresting. She was a singular talent who probably should have been releasing albums on Elektra or Harvest, and these sides are truly great finds.Jones persevered for as long as he could, sporadically churning out singles until the end of the decade, but all dreams have to end, and Jones' concluded without ever managing the true breakout that could have come if luck had merely sided with him once. This sweeping collection reveals his many highs and a few of his lows with great affection, finally shedding some light on the greatest player in Atlanta's strangely undersized independent soul scene. "}