{"label":" Tiny Man","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12184/homepage_large.cd4cb47a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"Rainbow Arabia","title":"Basta EP","text":" The opening seconds of Rainbow Arabia's debut EP are more knuckleball than curve: \"Omar K\" begins with chanted callandresponse vocals, and what at first seems like it might be a welltimed study of traditional West African music quickly veers a good distance eastward, and makes clear which global destination the duo have actually mined for so much inspiration. With a name like theirs, of course, you should have little trouble figuring out where to look to get some sense of what informs not just their keffiyehfied aesthetic but their CairoviaEcho Park primitivist dance hybrid as well. Big hint.Rainbow Arabia are married couple Danny and Tiffany Preston, formerly of L.A. dubpunkers Future Pigeon. As with their earlier band, Rainbow Arabia are out for your hips, and this first effort is strangely propulsive. While press materials state that the two combine Middle Eastern flavors with American experimental dance music, I'm not sure there's anything especially \"American\" about their project aside from its mailing address. On the other hand, because their music is so attached to the region and its rumble, I can't help but wonder what kind of reaction the Basta EP might elicit from ears that grew up with those sounds. Fairly or not, questions of authenticity are destined to haunt this band.Musically, Rainbow Arabia work a pretty minimal setup. While the overall vibe stays in place, their means of execution requires many parts. The synth and drum machine workouts are certainly housemeetstribal, but the menacing beats realized in \"Let Them Dance\" and \"Hear No See No\" aren't what lend those particular cuts their bones. What really sticks out are the serpentine guitar lines that slither their way through the EP, sometimes taking on the shape of postpunk spikes, garage crunch, and Edgelike delay effects. That sort of guitar eclecticism is mirrored in turn by Tiffany Preston, whose yips, yaps, and prairie crows work well in the Rainbow Arabia's efforts to transport as much as immerse. An easy reference point would be Ponytail's whirling frontwoman Molly Siegel. While her vocal turns aren't nearly so easy to place stylistically, the two both hit high registers some might call distracting more than complimentary.The fifth and final track on this 20minute EP, \"The Basta\", opens by sampling video game effects that, according to the eternal geek in me, can be traced to 80s SEGA quartervacuum Altered Beast. That's one way to kick off an offkilter dance track punctuated most memorably by Tiffany Preston's last few yelps, I guess; but it also points to a possible way forward. You could easily argue that, given their commitment to their influences, Rainbow Arabia don't have many options when it comes to their next move. Could be, but this closer shows that that they've still managed to find a few interesting keepsakes in this bazaar they've gotten lost in. "}