{"label":" Holy Mountain","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12191/homepage_large.37cebcac.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Wooden Shjips","title":"Vol. 1","text":" Somehow, Wooden Shjips still manage to get blood out of experimental rock's oldest and stiffest arteries. The band's best moments are born out of extended repitition, studio experimentation, and reckless amateurism. If you didn't know better, you might think that the San Francisco quartet's murky singlechord jams were unearthed from some longforgotten record crate an acetate sandwiched for ages in between two moldy Tangerine Dream LPs rather than conceived within the last couple of years.Vol. 1 collects Wooden Shjips first three vinylonly releases including \"Shrinking Moon For You\" 10\", the \"Dance California/Clouds Over Earthquake\" 7\", and the \"SOL '07\" 7\" onto a single LP. Together that's six songs and a scant 35 minutes of music, but the compilation contains Wooden Shjips' fullest sounding work.Formed by guitarist Ripley Johnson in the early part of the decade, Wooden Shjips' began by honing in on the mantric drone vibe of bands like Velvet Underground and Pärson Sound. By recruiting nonmusiciansor forcing skilled musicians to play unfamiliar instruments, Johnson prevailed in reducing improvised spacerock into a relatively focused product. Wooden Shjips' music still unspools into the ether beyond rational thought, but it does so with relatively predictable results.The songs that make up Wooden Shjips selfreleased debut single the \"Shrinking Moon For You\" 10\" nail the necessary narcotic feel. Originally pressed in a limited run of only 300 units, the band gave the record away at performances and mailed them out to people who requested copies. After a few positive reviews the 10\" went quickly out of print as collectors and fans scooped them up, creating a buzz around a group that might have otherwise slipped into obscurity. \"Shrinking Moon For You\" is Wooden Shjips finest moment thus far. It's eight and a half minutes of foreboding lofi bashing and Schedule 1 substance buzz a single twonote bass riff is repeated ad infinitum while a guitars and keyboards ascend up the register and into abstraction. Everything is distorted, convoluted, and delayed. The motorik rhythm sounds like it was made by shaking a drawer full of kitchen utensils.Bside \"Death's Not Your Friend\" treads simillar thrillingly haphazard territory guitars pingpong across the stereo field, anchored by a thrift store organ that sounds like a car alarm. Meanwhile, \"Clouds Over Earthquake\" inverts the formula. Here Wooden Shjips abscond with lysergic chugging for a languid a new age haze. Skeletal guitar melodies float over the refrigerator hum of a distorted keyboard, as Johnson moans distant and blissed out nonsense.In comparison to the best songs on Vol. 1, Wooden Shjips debut fulllength also on Holy Mountain was disappointing. The band stripped down too far, peeling off a layer of murk and toning down the stoner kinetics, leaving only thin and anemic grooves that sounded like Morrison Hotel pitched down two octaves. A few tracks even broke the Velvet Underground's cardinal rule\"never play the blues.\" But Vol. 1 finally makes Wooden Shjips first, fuzzier, efforts easily available. And for these songs, one chord is still more than enough. "}