{"label":" Acuarela","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12193/homepage_large.1462c56a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Apse","title":"Spirit","text":" Apse hit on enough touchstones to rouse familiarity within fans of instrumental postrock, psychedelia, or even industrial rock, but they never completely settle into one or the other on Spirit. Even calling them postrock isn't a perfect fit; after all, the album does have vocals, as sparingly used as they may be. Now reissued by ATP Recordings two years after its original release on Acuarela Discos, Spirit is a moody and mostly instrumental affair, but it's strikingly different than any similar act running today; this is something much more haunted and sparse. Many songs are dominated more by the echo of a piano key or the warm hum after a guitar string settles than the notes themselves.Deliberate onenote bass and steady horseclop drumming leads a floating singsong vocal on \"From the North\", sounding not just \"cinematic\" and sweeping, but dreamlike. The vocals here are breathy, high, and nearly ghostlike, used as just another texture among many. The eventual crescendo isn't uncommon among Apse's peers, and while they do raise the volume and the distortion here, the buildup might be the more captivating part. Even when thrashing away, they seem to know the value of open space, and they know when enough is enough, cutting their wellearned climax surprisingly short.\"Legions\" is bult on a musicbox melody, muffled and faint just below the exchange between the rhythm section and a oncestrummed chord. The rhythm suddenly becomes much more discernible and urgent, and a voice kicks in, singing a mantra for more material issues (\"We love our lovers, but we want to be loved by another.\") From there, they veer back and forth between rollicking and atmospheric, using their quickly mutating composition to stretch out the tension.\"Shade of the Moor\" and especially \"The Crowned\" have lyrics that demand more attention without stealing the focus, and \"Crowned\" is where the tribal rhythms of the album really start to take shape. This continues later with \"Ark\", with pounding, primal drums that eventually recede into ominous radio static. \"Wind Through the Walls\" brings the record into hauntedhouse territory, courtesy of piano and layered vocals through chamberofsoulslevel echo, and even the quiet, tiptoeing rhythm of \"Blackwood Gates\" sounds vaguely threatening, as does the forebodingly slow closer of the title track.But whether it's a séance or a sacrifice they're conjuring, the tone and feel of the record stays uniform, for better or for worse. What could be a consistent sound and mood for some may be an endless revision of one song for others. Either way, it's the band's grasp of tension and space that makes Spirit a distinctive and notsoeasilybracketed album. Its big crescendos feel paranoid and desperate, its slower moments vibrate with danger, and its creeps are subtle but visceral. "}