{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12198/homepage_large.c3ec2577.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Ulrich Schnauss","title":"Stars EP","text":" In the wake of a Top 10of'08contending bit of psychedelia from M83 (Saturdays=Youth) and a resoundingly successful comeback from the previously leftfordead My Bloody Valentine, Ulrich Schnauss might be wondering if his own reinvention as a shoegaze revivalist wasn't slightly mistimed. Certainly, the Germanborn musician has been smuggling elements of shoegaze into his work since the gleaming, careening electropop of his 2001 debut Far Away Trains Passing By, but he didn't fully embrace the form until 2007's uneven Goodbye a dense patchwork of starburst guitar squalls, billowy atmospherics, and cloudbusting pop.The fourtrack Stars EP released on the back of Schnauss' American summer tour is a gentle reminder that Ulrich's still banging on a chorus pedal or seven, and yet it feels undercooked. Featuring three new iterations of the title track (a new, previously unreleased edit from Schnauss as well as remixes from Mahogany's Andrew Prinz and Maps) along with another new mix of 2007's \"Look at the Sky\", it instead comes across like an unwitting throwback to a completely different early 90s mainstay: the MaxiCD. You remember those: They generally came packed with lots of vaguely distinguishable variations of the same track, none of them particularly definitive, urgent, or illuminating. Nobody liked them.As pleasant a single as \"Stars\" is, that's basically what this EP amounts to. Schnauss' zippier, aerodynamic new edit might elevate the song to Ladytroncaliber pop, but it's hardly compelling enough source material to warrant a whole release. It doesn't help that the Prinz and Maps remixes are relatively faithful, the former a \"dub\" mix that slightly pares back the original's energy and hyperactivity; the latter a bit twitchier and denser. Call it lack of sheer repetition, but in the end, \"Look at the Sky\" emerges as the best thing on here. A pretty blend of swirling guitars, reverbed pianos, and pulsating rhythms, it's as lovely a 4AD homage as you're likely to hear. As the basis of a deeper, widerranging companion set, those highlights might have more convincingly argued a case for Goodbye; in its current form, though, it's hard to see how anyone thought this would be a useful addition to Schnauss' catalogue. "}