{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12211/homepage_large.90f60a5b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"B-Boy Records: The Masterworks","text":" It'd be nice to open this review of BBoy Records: The Masterworks with a brief but detailed synopsis of this crucial independent hiphop label's history. Problem is, the label was so shortlived and shrouded in mystery that details are sketchy. Discogs.com has a brief, frustratingly vague twosentence description of the label: \"Founded in 1987 by Jack Allen and Bill Kamarra. The label was later forced to closed down when Bill Kamarra was sentenced to jail.\" (And even there, they got the year wrong the label's first 12\" dropped in 1986.) Allmusic.com drops hints that BBoy Records was \"rumored to be a front for a pornography operation\" in their bio of KRSOne, the MC that paired with DJ Scott La Rock to make the label's defining hit record, Boogie Down Productions' Criminal Minded. And from what I've gathered after a bit of research, getting a definitive answer on what really happened at that label both creatively and financially is probably not too likely: both Allen and Kamarra have set about reviving the BBoy Records name independently of each other, and there seems to have been a number of bridges burned between the two men.But the main reason the heart of the label's ragstorichestononexistence story eludes me is because BBoy Records: the Masterworks for all its exhaustive cataloguing of releases, production credits, label art, catalog numbers, and archival photos tells you nothing that you can't already hear in the music itself. This, frankly, should be plenty for most hiphop fanatics: here you can divine the beginnings of independent, streetlevel hardcore rap lyricism during the key transitional point that shifted the dominant production style from the 808 drum machine to the SP1200 sampler. Every single recording the label ever released, ranging from BDP's \"The Bridge Is Over\" to B Boys Christmas Album, is represented on this fourdisc MP3 box set, and it's populated with a dizzying array of past icons, future legends, couldabeens, neverweres and more than a few acts you probably haven't heard of that caught lightning in a bottle for one 12\" record.Naturally, the shadow of BDP looms heavily over this collection, and despite the relatively short period of time they recorded with the label 1986 to 1987 54 of this collection's 262 tracks feature them at top billing. The hook for this set seems at least in part to be \"the label that brought you Criminal Minded,\" which is understandable. But aside from the La Rock tribute Memory of A Man and His Music, most of the BDP stuff, including an allinstrumental \"HotClub Version\" of Criminal Minded and all the single versions of tracks that showed up on identical form on the album, is strictly for completists.And since anyone remotely interested in this box probably owns Criminal Minded anyway, a more compelling reason to check it out is the chance to hear music that's long been lost to time. Aside from J.V.C. F.O.R.C.E.'s enduring classic \"Strong Island\" (included both as a single and as part of their 1988 album Doin' Damage), almost everything on here without Boogie Down Productions' name on it is a relative (or notsorelative) obscurity, with latterperiod jams from old schoolers SpyderD (\"Try to Bite Me Now\") and KG the All & DJ Tony Crush from the Cold Crush Brothers (the scarce 1988 LP Troopers) mixed in with littleknown names like former graffiti artist turned MC Levi 167 or the dancecrazed Sean Baby and Ninja D. Most of the artists on the label stuck to the same technique that made BDP break big minimalist but hardhitting drum programming fueled by both synthesized and sampled beats, overlaid with fierce battlerap swagger. (One single, Soul Dimension's 1987 \"TrashAn' Ready,\" even takes a nod from KRS' pioneering usage of ragga/dancehall inflections.) But they do it all to different ends, and the roster here proves that BBoy Records wasn't afraid to expand its horizons.Of course, there's a fine line between expanding  your horizons and stretching yourself thin, and some excursions worked better than others. B Girls Live & Kicking was a novelty for 1987 hell, it'd probably still be one if a similar underground rap label released a collection of allfemale rap but the lineup, which includes Sparky D, Five Star Moet, Baby Doll, and L.A. Star, all rhyme with the kind of motivation that only comes with the urge to knock Roxanne Shanté off her throne. Efforts to cater to various racial demographics are a bit trickier: Crazy 8 Posse's \"La Cucaracha\" is a great piece of Latin rap with a rapidfire, overlapping threeman delivery copped neatly from RunDMC. But Frozen Explosion a white MC whose selftitled LP was recorded in Belleville, Ill., (!!) has the tendency to bring lifeless hooks and a cloying delivery, and his pidginJapanese single \"Iwo Jima\" has to be one of the most irritating rap singles ever recorded. Still, for every failed attempt like that, The Masterworks unearths something truly and wonderfully fucked up, like, say, Wacky Wrapper, whose sole single (1988's \"RubNDub\" b/w \"Yo Hoe, Go Home\") makes him sound like a cross between JustIce and ODB.Account for a number of tracks that have aged a lot more poorly than \"South Bronx\" or \"Strong Island\" (a number of circa1988 singles succumb to the brief but traumatizing late80s fad of using cheap, tinny synthesized horn melodies) and factor in the general mixedbag nature of any \"complete works\" comp compared to your standard cherrypicked bestof, and you might think twice about dropping $90 for this. But the deeper you dig, the more you'll find stuff where the phrase \"lost classic\" comes to mind: Incredible Two's dis track \"Moe Dee Get Mad\"; Soul Dimension's funky old schoolmeetsJames Brown jam \"Soul Power\"; Jewel T's alternateuniverseLL banger \"I Like It Loud\". And the obvious benefit of having clean copies of some really scarce and pretty damn good material is compelling. Even after removing the redundant singles and dated mediocrities (not to mention the stuff that already appeared on last year's comp BBoy Records  The Archives: Rare & Unreleased), it's a pretty huge batch of good hiphop that would otherwise be difficult to find in digital format at 320 kbps, no less and prohibitively expensive to track down on the original vinyl. If you buy this, you might not know a hell of a lot more about the circumstances from which this music came, but you'll get a fascinating snapshot of hiphop history nonetheless. "}