{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12207/homepage_large.63d1328f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Simian Mobile Disco","title":"Sample and Hold","text":" With all due respect to \"Songs Inspired by,\" \"Mark Ronson Edit,\" and \"ft. Wil.i.Am\", I'm hard pressed to come up with any phrases that invoke my instacynic as definitively as \"remix album.\" After years of being duped, continually, against mounting odds, into hoping that a remix record of [insert artist here] might actually turn out to be great, or least sort of kind of enjoyable, or at least not a dog's breakfast, I'm pretty much ready to give up on the format as a whole. With a handful of exceptions (and even those are EPs), pretty much every remix record that comes to mind felt more like a play at cred points, a contractual obligation, or a selfcongratulatory exercise than anything I'd actually put on for pleasure. The remix game is pretty Darwinian anyway; the best ones always do the rounds. Maybe these things just don't work.Sample and Hold is a remix album from someone you'd think would know better: Bristol's Simian Mobile Disco, who, lest we forget, have racked up some pretty impressive remixes for others over the years. With a discography that peaked with highprofile work for Klaxons, the Rapture, Air, CSS, Ladytron, and Bjork, you'd think these guys would have at least enough appreciation for the form not to sully what was, in retrospect, a sortof underrated debut (2007's Attack Decay Sustain Release, undercut by the prerelease overfamiliarity of some of its biggest singles and overshadowed by Justice's concurrently released †) with a posthumous release of warmed over, gonowhere remixes from a cast of unknowns, blevel producers and the weirdly resilient Cosmo Vitelli.Sadly, Sample and Hold is a depressingly phonedin thing, right down to its cover art, which you guessed it consists of a slightly remodified version of the debut's. The misses start early: Simon Baker's opening remix of \"Sleep Deprivation\" wrinkles the original's rushy pulses into a twerked out techhouse epic that has the audacity to pulse along for 10 minutes without burdening itself with anything remotely resembling a second idea; the Invisible Conga People color over the exuberant, filtered 80s pop of \"I Got This Down\" with stately piano tinkles and, uh, congas; the Oscillation reimagine the acid workout \"Tits & Acid\" as a noirish, protobig beat clunker in the vein of early Fluke; even Silver Apples, as welcome as they are on this roster, deface the pleasantly billowy closer \"Scott\" with some detuned synth grunts and a purposely offkilter drum track.The few submissions that aren't completely skippable come courtesy the album's more recognizable contributors. DFA's Shit Robot transforms the sleek, liquidsounding \"It's the Beat\" into a serviceable grinder, unleashing its titular oneliner in at least some of the right moments, while Studio !K7's Joakim imagines \"Hustler\" against an entertainingenough procession of different sounds and techniques. Elsewhere, the album's best moment comes from Erol Alkan, whose sturdily crafted \"Beyond the Wizard's Sleeve\" remix of \"Love\" outclasses everything around it by half. In the end, though, those middling highlights hardly amount to much. What's worse is that one of the album's more interesting initial features the fact that it's a trackfortrack remix record rather than a collection of available leftovers ends up working against it. From here on out, it's going to be tough to listen to Attack Decay Sustain Release without flashing on its mutant twin brother. It should have finished him off in the womb. "}