{"label":" LTM","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12209/homepage_large.60fa845d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"The Occasional Keepers","title":"True North","text":" When it comes to soft, sad, suburban indie pop, few can claim more classic songs than Bobby Wratten, whose band the Field Mice helped sensitive kids survive those dark years between the Smiths and Belle and Sebastian. In his recent albums with Trembling Blue Stars, however, Wratten's music has largely gone from bedsit to bedtime. Despite the usual highlight or two, the English songwriter's latest studio collaboration with Carolyn Allen and Gerard \"Caesar\" McInulty (both formerly of fellow Sarah Records band the Wake) is more of the snooze.The threepiece came together as the Occasional Keepers for 2005's The Beauty of the Empty Vessel, a slowpaced album of acoustic introspection, at its best on atmospheric ballad \"RoseScented Fire\". Followup True North points its compass down the same path, bringing along additional electronic elements. Longtime collaborator Ian Catt, also known for his work with Saint Etienne and Heavenly, ensures the album is at least vividly produced. Using field recordings, True North conjures up a cold, quiet, foggy North Country the way its predecessor managed to channel the arctic blur of its cover.Opener \"If the Ravens Leave\", an AllenMcInulty composition, mingles everyday concerns with images of falling kingdoms, setting the scene with the album's most irresistible melody. The Wake duo's \"Town of 85 Lights\" marks the biggest departure from the last outing, working a hornbacked groove that Beck wouldn't turn down. It's outshone, however, by Wratten's gentler melancholia on \"Leave the Secret There Forever\", which evokes not only his reclusive persona, but also the loss of control that artists have over their work particularly in the digital era once it's unveiled to the world.As with any lengthy expedition, True North can be a drag when it gets monotonous. \"Factory Records\" is a lumbering, ambient instrumental with a great name (the Wake also recorded for Factory), but its sustained synth swells, yearning bass line, and melodica fail to hold interest for all six minutes. Beth Arzy of Trembling Blue Stars and Southern California indiepoppers Aberdeen sings on \"The Life of the Fields\", a folktinged song about a fertility ritual; despite delicately recorded acoustic guitar, set to the crackling of a fire, it's more like something you'd have to sing in school than a track you'd actually put on for pleasure. All the orchestral production in the world can't make softrocking ecobummer \"I've Realized\" sound like an epiphany, and sevenminute finale \"A Distant Piano on a Foggy Night\" is more fog than piano. If you drift north long enough, you'll get pretty cold, but then before you know it you'll start to feel warm again. Turn back that's hypothermia. "}