{"label":" Blast First Petite","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12202/homepage_large.9219928e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Suicide","title":"Live 1977-1978","text":" Performing one of his anythinggoes solo tours in 2005, Bruce Springsteen frequently surprised soldout crowds by closing his sets with a cover of Suicide's \"Dream Baby Dream\". An unlikely encore perhaps, but Springsteen frequently cites Suicide as the inspiration for the badtrip barks and howls punctuating his haunting \"State Trooper\". In fact, Springsteen's just one of many likely and unlikely acts influenced by the confrontational New York duo of Alan Vega and Martin Rev. A good hunk of Jason Pierce's back catalog, both with Spacemen 3 and Spiritualized, owes a debt to Suicide songs such as \"Cheree\". Ric Ocasek was an early fan even though the Cars went off in a different direction. Nick Cave proudly swims in the band's stream. Just about every synth/singer duo or electroclash act from Soft Cell to the Kills owes something to Suicide. Still other future acts simply left Suicide gigs with lasting lessons on how to piss off a crowd in less than 20 minutes.No question, for whatever confluence of reasons, Suicide proved their own sort of punk rock: either you left a show rocked, or you likely felt punk'd. The enduring Live 19771978, a box set comprising 13 complete Suicide sets either recorded in New York or in Europe (where the band was opening for the Clash and Elvis Costello), give new listeners the chance to hear the good, bad, and ugly sides of the band, even if all those sides were ultimately presented as one hugely confrontational façade. A little like the VU with a few extra doses of \"we don't give a fuck,\" Suicide specialized in hypnotic/annoying electronic dirges propelled by primitive beats and driven by Vega's crazed vocals. It's a stunt disclaimer, but a warning stamped on the back of this box reads: \"These recordings are not for the fainthearted or casual fan.\" There's only one Suicide show that transcends those parameters, on historic grounds, and that's the infamous tape of the band performing in Brussels, a show that ends after 23 minutes with a fan commandeering the mic. That set is here, as well as possibly too many more: Live 19771978 is really about overkill, a series of lofi tape recordings every bit as confrontational as these 13 performances, each captured as long, unbroken tracks. Unlike the VU, whose treasure trove of bootlegs recorded by Robert Quine comprised the essential, illuminating Bootleg Series Volume 1: The Quine Tapes, Live 19771978 virtually rubs your face in its inessentialness, offering essentially the same thing, 13 times in a row. Which begs the question: Were there ever any Suicide gigs that ended well? Were there any performances that didn't bring you to the brink and threaten to push you over, just for kicks? Were there every any Suicide shows that were actually a good time?\"Our attitude was, 'Fuck you buddy, you're getting the street right back in your face,\" Vega has said. \"And some.\" Well, \"Live 19771978\" is some and some more. It's grunge. It's grime. It's the sight of several days of dirt built up under your nails as you try to scratch your own eyes out. Unless you're a diehard Suicide fan and, to be fair, that's who this set is made for you may never want to put it on more than once, but that first time through is still a blast. "}