{"label":" Old Man","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12208/homepage_large.cfd12e52.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"William F. Gibbs","title":"My Fellow Sophisticates","text":" William F. Gibbs makes what I might term pop Americana. His music takes the country, folk, soul, and rock that fills our past and provides an indie rock distillation that's easily accessible and, if not terribly unique, pleasant to listen to. His tendency to leap into his falsetto range in otherwise normalrange passages is his most distinctive vocal calling card regardless of the register he sings in, his voice has just a touch of grit at the edges. On his debut album, My Fellow Sophisticates, the South Carolina songwriter sounds comfortable in his songs and gives the overall impression of mid1990s Grant Lee Buffalo viewed through the lens of M. Ward.At the album's heart lie two songs that indicate Gibbs' future potential. \"Brother John!\", a song about an unbelieving priest, opens with a brief choral passage (not a full choir, just Gibbs and some friends) before leaping into a locomotive rhythm that buoys an excellent vocal melody that leans away from the falsetto in favor of a rapidfire delivery that boosts the song's momentum. Shouted backing vocals and a wild, ragged guitar solo add even more frazzled energy to the song. \"Here Comes Your Steamboat Brother! Here Comes Your Freightline Sister!\" has a similar underlying rhythm, but the countryish lead guitar lines and female backing vocals give it more of an Appalachian feel he sounds like he's learned from M. Ward's propensity for combining roots music with flowing electric guitar lines.The album's musical extremes provide its two other most pronounced high points. Gibbs spins a wonderful, organsoaked ballad on \"Oh Pollyanna\", keeping the rhythm moving forward with acoustic guitar and piano as he sifts through love's contradictions, singing \"If I could lie to make you happy/ I think I should.\" At the other end of the spectrum, \"Streetfighter\" is a tough, funky rock song with heavy drums and chickenscratch guitars that offers a late burst of energy near the end of the album, where it feels needed after the slow and hazy \"Operate\" and \"Ankle Deep in the Atlantic\". On the former of those two, his falsetto trick begins to feel like a lazy ornament, though the guitar solo, which sounds a bit like George Harrison, is nice. The album's low point is \"LA Money\", which is just a generic slice of modern singersongwriter fodder.Gibbs is at his best when he can cook up a good rhythm to push his songs along, and he does that often enough to make this a solid debut. He has clear talent as a songwriter and an interesting voice that he should be able to do great things with if he can break out of simply using his range to borrow an occasional note from a neighboring octave. While it may be uneven, the good parts of My Fellow Sophisticates outweigh the bland. "}