{"label":" SYR","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12218/homepage_large.f018aa2b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Sonic Youth","title":"Andre Sider Af Sonic Youth","text":" Andre Sider Af Sonic Youth the eighth album in Sonic Youth's selfreleased, experimental series known as Sonic Youth Recordings, or SYR risks suffering from expectations. A live 2005 collaboration between Sonic Youth (in its quintet formation with the redoubtable Jim O'Rourke) and special guests Merzbow and Mats Gustafsson, here the noise rock fountainhead invites an extreme electronics pioneer and one of free jazz's most ferocious instrumentalists ever over to jam. Things could get crowded.Fear not: Instead of tripping over its own talents, SYR8 is a focused 57minute communal improvisation, building naturally and collapsing ultraviolently. The concert, performed between sets by Sunn O))) and Black Sabbath at Denmark's Roskilde Festival, is essentially a process piece imbued with its players' personalities. During the first half, they arrive onstage onebyone. During the second half, they exit in firston, firstout order. Steve Shelley and Kim Gordon take it from the top, Gordon moaning about saving souls over her own ugly electric guitar arrhythmia and Shelley's tomandcymbal ellipses. The crowd cheers when Thurston Moore rushes in, his brittle guitar tone initially charging but eventually locking with Gordon's. After guitarist Lee Ranaldo joins, the band spends 10 minutes cresting and falling in classic Sonic Youth style, the drums either skittering or charging, the guitars either prickling or feeding back.O'Rourke, who left Sonic Youth three months later, splits his time here between guitar and keyboards. Gustafsson's entrance, though, feels like the main event: As the band slinks and reorganizes after a surge, he slices through, his first note matching the mood of the guitars before peeling away into sharp, painful squalls. As Gordon sings her final words, the whole thing lifts steadily like a curtain, revealing Merzbow and his dual Apple laptops. His imprint a blitz of static at a belligerent volume is deep and unmistakable. Over the next 30 minutes, the players exit, eventually leaving O'Rourke, Gustafsson, and Merzbow onstage, shaping their individual cacophonies into interlocking rivets. Gustafsson's reeds fit between Merzbow's whirs, and O'Rourke's pedal patterns steam through them both. He exits through a single shot of feedback, leaving the two guests to battle sidebyside on the gearlittered stage. No one wins. Gustafsson just leaves. Merzbow sounds forceful and fresh in this context, qualities sometimes absent in his 29year career. On SYR8, some of the best in the business sound even better.In June, almost three years after this performance, Starbucks released a seemingly wellintended disc called Hits Are for Squares, a collection of 15 Sonic Youth tracks picked by bands like The Flaming Lips and Radiohead and, uhh, people like Chloe Sevigny and Diablo Cody. Longrunning criticisms of the band which released its first record on a major label in 1990, once practiced near the World Trade Center, and made nearly $500,000 for playing three shows in 2007 as moneyhungry hit new heights. While Hits Are for Squares isn't a pinnacle of the band or its decisionmaking process, those branding the band as sellouts only consider the most convenient side of the story: The members of Sonic Youth are perhaps more invested in financing outsider art than any other major American act (see Ecstatic Peace, Moore's noise albums on tiny labels, Gordon's art and advocacy).What's more, Sonic Youth is the only American band to be active and evolving a quarter century after its inception, without interruption Melvins and Yo La Tengo possibly excepted. They've released alternative rock gems and covers of Steve Reich pieces, a 7\" about Mariah Carey, and an homage to Ted Hughes. If Hits are for Squares is an attempt to cash in, Andre Sider Af Sonic Youth literally, Other Sides of Sonic Youth is an ace reminder that this band hasn't lost its abrasive edges or its risky ideas. After all, I've always wished my favorite bands got paid more like our best athletes. If Starbucks can enable that even a little bit for a band that still puts out peerless slabs of improvisation like SYR8, blessed be both benefactors. "}