{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12216/homepage_large.e125a330.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 10: 1970","text":" Compiling and annotating the complete singles discography of Motown and its host of sister imprints is a massive task. Recordkeeping in Hitsville, U.S.A. was good enough that turning up session notes and catalog details isn't too challenging, but molding all that data into a narrative, digging up all the master tapes and remastering them, and packaging them with hundreds of archival photos takes a huge amount of time and effort. HipO Select's Complete Motown Singles series is a godsend to collectors, both as a reference tool and a convenient place to get everything that ever graced one of the Motown label family's 45s. They mean it when they say complete, too in addition to both sides of every 45 Berry Gordy ever saw fit to release, the series includes planned releases that never came out, putting a lot of them on CD for the first time.In its 10th volume, the series crosses the decade barrier into 1970, but it's instructive to realize that what we figuratively consider \"the sixties\" is roughly the period from 1965 to 1973, when the United States was embroiled in the Vietnam War and undergoing the paroxysmal changes that made it into a true democracy for the first time in its history. Indeed, the social concerns of the 60s are on bolder display here than on any of the series' previous volumes despite Gordy and his quality control department's reluctance to allow the music to drift into political commentary for fear of compromising its commercial appeal.The music changed a lot at Motown in 1970. Edwin Starr stared the specter of Vietnam in the eye on \"War\" and the even more pointed \"Stop the War Now\" and didn't blink; Martha & the Vandellas looked at the conflict through a personal lens on \"I Should Be Proud\" (Martha Reeves' brother fought in Vietnam); the Spinners went looking for chart action with their own version of the Temptations album track \"Message From a Blackman\" (and didn't find it); and Norman Whitfield continued his reinvention of the Motown Sound with the Tempts' explosive and blunt social commentary track \"Ball of Confusion (That's What the World Is Today)\", among others. This fire had been building for years; 1970 was merely the year it finally spread through the label's roster.Across the six discs of this set (discs 5055 in the series), there's also a palpable tension between making the music funkier and making the music smoother either way, the sound of young America was growing up along with its listeners. The trend toward smoother, lusher arrangements is perhaps best exemplified by Marvin Gaye's production work for the Originals, whose silky vocal harmony smash \"The Bells\" leads off the set. Even as Motown's studios upgraded to the latest equipment, there remained an essential rawness to the tracks laid down by the Funk Brothers one of their drummers was nicknamed Pistol for a reason. Nevertheless, \"The Bells\", and indeed everything the Originals released that year, had a refined sound arranged to the hilt with big, creamy strings, velvettoned sax, and fulsome bass. Not a moment too soon, either, as Detroit's status as the North's soul capitol, already compromised by Berry Gordy's move to L.A., was being challenged by the Philadelphia Sound, which today is synonymous with smooth, harmonyandorchestrationladen soul.In fact, the Spinners, who had been with Motown since the mid60s and had almost nothing to show for it, would go on to become one of the prime players in the rise of Philly soul after their Motown contract expired late that year. Musically, though, they had a hell of a final year in Hitsville. The aforementioned \"Message to a Blackman\" is a haunting indictment of racial prejudice, setting spoken word against a ghostly wordless chant cut with producer Johnny Bristol, but it was Stevie Wonder who finally put the group on the map. Wonder was 20 years old and phenomenally talented his biggest hit of the year was the immortal \"Signed, Sealed, Delivered I'm Yours\" and he liked what he heard in the voice of G.C. Cameron. He wrote \"It's a Shame\" with that voice in mind, and Cameron did him proud, nailing a powerhouse performance that ends with a startling jump into Cameron's falsetto range in one take. The song has an amazing, unstoppable rhythm and is barely orchestrated by Motown standards Paul Riser simply added a few answering phrases on the horns. Though it couldn't save the Spinners' career at Motown, it established Wonder, already remarkably successful, as the label's star of the future.Gladys Knight & the Pips skillfully bridged the divide between funk and the more adult soul offerings of the label, working with producer Clay McMurray on the incomparably majestic ballad \"If I Were Your Woman\", directly on the heels of the gritty, bouncing soul explosion of \"You Need Love Like I Do (Don't You)\", one of the Motown family's nastiest funk cuts. The label's kid sensations, the Jackson 5, built on the momentum of 1969's \"I Want You Back\" with \"ABC\", \"The Love You Save\", and \"I'll Be There\", moving from bouncing pop to heartfelt ballads with seemingly little effort. Michael's incredible rapidfire vocal on \"The Love You Save\" confirms that at just 11, he was a natural. The brothers had four #1 singles and released four albums in the span of 10 months from late 1969 to late 1970, a rate of production that's nearly impossible to fathom today.The Jacksons were the most commercially successful Motown act in 1970, but Gordy was to pin his future commercial hopes on a huge gamble: replacing Diana Ross in the Supremes with Jean Terrell and building Ross into a solo artist. Ross sang her last show with the group in January and debuted in April with the inspirational slow song \"Reach Out and Touch (Somebody's Hand)\", which peaked at a (for her) disappointing #20 on the pop charts. Gordy was stunned and took emergency action, dispatching sales chief Barney Ales to the studio to record a message to the label's distributors emphasizing how important it was for the next Diana Ross release to find its audience. The message is included in this set, and it's undeniably craven in its emphasis on achieving sales and airplay at all costs, and just a little threatening in its subtext. As he ostensibly thanks the distributors for contributing to past success, Ales pointedly announces that he wants to be able to thank them for the success of Ross' next single at the upcoming sales convention. The message apparently got through: That next single, an overblown, bloated cover of the Marvin Gaye/Tammi Terrell classic \"Ain't No Mountain High Enough\" tricked out with Isaac Hayesstyle spoken passages, lodged at #1 for three straight weeks.The Supremes, meanwhile, carried on just fine in the absence of their erstwhile frontwoman, scoring with \"Up the Ladder to the Roof\" and \"Stoned Love\", which were perfectly calibrated to the trio's balance of gentle grace and cool sophistication. Fellow Motown vets the Four Tops didn't quite have the massive sales success as the Supremes, but, working now with producer Frank Wilson, they became one of Motown's most progressive acts, cutting the label's first cohesive, conceptually grounded LP, Still Waters Run Deep, from which the dual title tracks were drawn as a single. It's an odd 45, each side putting a different spin on a similar theme and holding off on the chorus for much longer than usual.Marvin Gaye was paying attention as Wilson and the Tops branched out conceptually, noticing the suitelike construction of the LP. It was in 1970 that he took his first pass at \"What's Going On\" (Gordy hated it) and began to conceive the album of the same name, but creatively it was nearly a lost year for him otherwise. Much of his output in 1970, as a performer and a producer, was taken from the vaults. The release of his final duet with Tammi Terrell, \"The Onion Song\", coincided almost precisely with her death from a malignant brain tumor, which rocked Gaye. He was reported to speak to her as though she were still alive for months afterward.As the core of soul music business charged forward strong as ever in spite of all the changes, releasing more than half the songs that topped the R&B charts in 1970, Motown's groping forays into the rock world continued to miss the target, though not as completely as before. The Rare Earth label, established as a haven for rock bands, gained a bit of traction with the band Rare Earth's fuzzedup cover of the Temptations' \"Get Ready\", but couldn't effectively follow through. Michael Denton's \"Just Another Morning\" is excellent poprock, and Canadian import Allan Nicholls offers an organdrenched slice of protoprog on \"Coming Apart\", but Motown simply didn't know how to compete with CBS and the other labels that dominated the rock market. Similarly, Hugh Masekela's Chisa imprint released a handful of solid 45s ranging form the South African trumpeter's own jazzfunk cover of \"You Keep Me Hangin' On\" to a good doublesider of imaginative soul jazz from the Jazz Crusaders, and saw little in return.The true value of these sets becomes apparent in their juxtaposition of hits with worthy but forgotten tracks, such as Buzzie's funky, psychedelic disco precursor \"Stone Soul Booster\", available here for the first time since its original release, and it's a huge find. And the story and history behind every hit and miss is illuminated in the accompanying book with great clarity. Motown weathered a changing musical world adeptly in 1970, managing to go in more than one direction at once without getting lost. The emphasis of the label's operations continued to shift from the Motor City to the West Coast, with Gordy looking ahead toward an entry into the film business, but there were still a few good years ahead before the cord tying the label to its hometown was finally cut. "}