{"label":" Wagon Repair","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12223/homepage_large.9424a15d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"The Mole","title":"As High as the Sky","text":" It's simple, even for a casual fan, to separate the disco world into hemispheres: those acts who relied on synthesizers and sequencers e.g. the pioneering work of Patrick Cowley or Giorgio Moroder and those acts whose disco was funkbased e.g. Chic or Bohannon. Subsequent iterations have naturally blurred the lines, be they the semilegible musings of punk rockers like Liquid Liquid, the deck work of Carl Craig, or the machinesapinginstruments whir of Hercules and Love Affair. On his debut album As High as the Sky, the Mole submits his own inversion, pairing recognizable, sampled signifiers galloping basslines, cooed refrains, riddling breakbeats with uptempo electronic machinations. The result falls somewhere between the minimal, splotchy watercolor of the Field and Luomo's version of house, robbing the source material of some of its effusiveness by applying it to Serious Dance Music but also offering pleasantly familiar floorfiller.The Mole is Colin de la Plante, a Montreal resident whose singles and remixes have been popping up on a variety of labels, including Spectral Sound and Philpot, but mostly on Wagon Repair, this record's home. De la Plante has moved away somewhat from the heavy techno sounds of his early singles, now favoring an inviting, cutup whir, though you wouldn't know it from the stoic electronic cawing of \"Still in My Corner\", the album's first track. That atmosphere doesn't last long: the opening moments of \"Ain't the Way It's Supposed to Be\" features a glossy gospel cry \"Lord take away the pain\" as plenty of familiar accoutrements sashay into the mix: handclaps, orbital strings, and, twoandahalf minutes later, a humming bassline.Throughout As High as the Sky, de la Plante seeks the line that falls between recognizable and the composed; he's a tease. During the sevenplus minutes of \"Baby, You're the One (Edit)\" the title phrase is diced and sprinkled throughout, constantly present but ungraspable. That's the point: de la Plante's idea of \"recognizable\" seems to have a lot more to do with looking across the floor at your friend and going \"awwwww yeeeaaah\" ecstatically than exhibiting his cratedigging skills. As High as the Sky features no sample credits, and the repeated phrases \"Baby you're the one,\" \"Like the way you move\" are so familiar they're nearly untraceable (though some clever Googling can get you halfway there).So anyone without an encyclopedic knowledge of his potential sources might have trouble discerning between where de la Plante's samples end and his own compositions begin, but count that as a credit toward the fluidity and hearth of As High as the Sky. He erects smoky, sturdy homes for his loves: \"Like the Way\" is mousy and elusive, even during its nearambient coda. \"Knock Twice\" is comparatively restrained, offering its vocals and snapping guitars only a burly bass thump and handclaps.As High as the Sky rarely falters or stalls, moving seamlessly from awfully danceable to quite danceable and back again. This structure, though, does seem to stunt some intertrack growth: songs, while not formally mixed, often arrive fully formed and vary minimally throughout long runtimes. The clever emotional tricks \"hey wait...awww yeah\" he pulls during \"Ain't the Way\" disappear somewhat as the album rounds into full swing. But As High as the Sky does find a sixth gear, peaking with its final four tracks, right down to the lockthedoorsclub's closed breakbeatisms of \"When It Tastes So Good You Deserve It\", which sounds like Prefuse 73, exhausted and drooping. It is a conflagration of the vaguely familiar trite phrases, musclememory guitars, rumbling bass sequences that de la Plante guides to enviable heights. "}