{"label":" Ecstatic Peace","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12228/homepage_large.a91b9a10.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Okkyung Lee","title":"I Saw the Ghost of an Unknown Soul and It Said...","text":" Still just in her early thirties, cellist Okkyung Lee has already complied an impressive résumé. In the late 1990s, the Korean native earned a Bachelors in film scoring from Berklee and a Masters in improvisation from the New England Conservatory of Music. Moving to New York in 2000, she became a mainstay at the avantgarde nightclub Tonic, collaborating with a massive list of musicians including John Zorn, Nels Cline, Chris Corsano, and Thurston Moore. Lately, when she's not on the road as part of Laurie Anderson's touring ensemble, you can find her playing and volunteering at Zorn's Lower East Side performance space, the Stone.Lee's musical pursuits coalesced in 2005, when she put together her debut album for Zorn's Tzadik label, the mature and diverse Nihm. Working with an array of colleagues including drummer Tim Barnes and exDNA member Ikue Mori, Lee swung confidently from melodic jazz to chamber music to open improvisation. The album was a full summation of her talents, but it also represented a chance to clean her slate. Locking down versions of compositions she'd worked on for years allowed her to, as she said at the time, \"[achieve] some sense of final realization, and move on to something new.\"\"Something new\" has turned out to be a lot of different things, including a duo recording with Christian Marclay and a book/CD collaboration with artist Colin Stinson. But Lee's furthest divergence from the composed, collaborative Nihm is I Saw the Ghost..., an LP of solo cello improvisations for Moore's Ecstatic Peace label. Recorded by Barnes in 2006, the session is by turns subdued and fiery, atonal and beatific, multiphonic and minimal. Her allalone musings can sound as stark and solitary as the silent films Andrew Lampert has made of her (a still from one graces the album's cover). But despite the change in format, Lee captures as many moods as she did on Nihm, perhaps even more.That range comes from the numerous sounds, notes, and noises Lee coaxes from her instrument. Bowing, slapping, and plucking her cello, she burrows a path of constant creation, akin to the hypnotic bass explorations of William Parker and the hyperactive violin journeys of Billy Bang. On opener \"One\", she scrapes out high tones that sound more like upperregister sax than cello. Tactile string rips dominate the epileptic bursts of \"Two\", while on \"Four\" she generates birdlike chirps evoking Eric Dolphy's outwardbound solos. Lee ends the album with her longest track, \"And...\", a stunning compendium of all the moves she's made to this point, as well as some new squalls, rumbles, and percussive slaps for good measure.Such limitless invention serves as both fitting end to I Saw the Ghost... and tantalizing hint of what Lee might dream up next. Her ambitious collaborations will surely continue; she already has September dates lined up with Corsano, Bill Nace, and Carlos Giffoni. But regardless of what her future discography holds, this album is another fine step in what will hopefully be a long journey of sonic discovery. "}