{"label":" Gronland","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12231/homepage_large.0a30fe56.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Hans-Joachim Rödelius & Tim Story","title":"Inlandish","text":" It's almost impossible to ignore the stillfresh imprint that keyboardist and composer HansJoachim Rödelius has left on electronic music. The influence of his groups with Dieter Moebius, Cluster and Harmonia (the latter also included Neu!'s Michael Rother), is difficult to overstate. But now, at 74, Rödelius seems just as comfortable plonking out Satielike piano themes as he is touring the States with Cluster, now ambient celebrities. In the midst of said tour, Rödelius has released Inlandish, his latest collaboration with American composer Tim Story.This time, Rödelius left much of the electronic arrangements to Story, spending only ten days in the studio laying down piano before letting the American elaborate on his themes with neoclassical synths, cellos, and oboes. The result often fronts a certain contemplative neutrality (or as the two composers term it, \"emotionally ambiguous soundscapes\"), which might otherwise be mistaken for the pretense of new age serenity. But there's no affected or meditative agenda hidden in the fluttering synthesizers, save perhaps that Story's treatments sometimes borrow a little too much from his collaborator's best works. More often, Tim Story's treatments add a sort of melodic counterbalance worthy of previous HJR associate Brian Eno.It's a stark contrast from their last collaboration, 2003's Lunz, which heavily featured Rödelius' piano work and relegated his American disciple's embellishments to secondchair groundswells. Here, the collaborators let the piano lines form a supple backbone while Story's arrangements continually extend the work: sinuous synthetic flesh built upon a delicately evolved frame. And while Cluster and Harmonia were always known for their centripetal force, wrapping tight progressions around everchanging repetitive themes, Rödelius melds his best ambient works with a patience gleaned off his looser works of the 1980s and 90s. Each piece unfolds methodically, each pulsating rotation of Rödelius' theme sloughing off another layer of Tim Story's arrangements, themselves playing out like the elegant evolution of a rock or blues solo.The \"rock thing\" is a funny observation, since Tim Story says that Rödelius came to his attention just as he was searching for an alternative to rock music. But Inlandish certainly carries within it a rockish underpinning at the very least, consciously acknowledging postrock luminaries like Tortoise as well as their progressive rock ancestors. It's intriguing that Rödelius and Story are perceived as guys who try to breathe life into a form that protests the cold rock'n'roll machine, because it seems like Tim Story is sometimes playing pop god with his German collaborator's delicate essence. While it's true that he sometimes overpowers his subject and crushes that little spark with dated beats (\"Riddled\") or melodic fusions of new age and ambient forms (\"Downrivers\"), the two composers nurse their supple little creation, their fragile little life form, charged with the empirical DNA of the same electronic figures Rödelius once revolutionized. "}