{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1201/homepage_large.89421609.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Cabaret Voltaire","title":"The Original Sound of Sheffield '78-'82: The Best of...","text":" \"This is entertainment/ This is fun.\" As choked out by Stephen Mallinder, this is less of a request than a command, and the irony conveyed by his grudging, bilecoated words is plain. Art is rarely more than intent, but \"entertainment,\" let alone \"fun,\" is considerably more demanding; in either case, it takes more than speech to so selfconsciously elevate an artist's toil. The rift between assertion and sensible results is wide, after all; Mallinder's grim pronouncement at the center of \"This Is Entertainment\" amounts to little more than paradox as a consequence. His words attempt to define the work but the experience says otherwise, and that dilemma is the finest part. In fact, in a similar vein to contemporaries like Throbbing Gristle and Suicide, the lifeblood of Cabaret Voltaire's body of work is conflict. Hypnotic, mechanical rhythms struggle with jarring vocal effects and disorienting tape manipulation. The stark, minimal background music refuses to remain obscured, constantly demanding a listener's full attention. The Cabs wrenched sciencefiction out of stoneage tech way back in 1978, calling it, to quote Richard Kirk, \"experimental pop music,\" in a fight to escape \"the slavery of deadend jobs, and most important, to cause trouble.\" These guys pioneered the electroindustrial genre \"out of boredom\" think about that the next time you sit down to watch Blind Date. That's it for a refresher on the work of the oftunheralded Cabaret Voltaire; it's not the place of this review to dwell on congratulatory backpatting or debate this band's place in the pantheon of music's heroes. After all, Mute has compiled a document of their earthshaking early work, a chronological record of development with selections spanning the band's most vital period, and it basically speaks for itself. From their first steps on the Extended Play EP through the dual Spartan masterpieces Red Mecca and 2 X 45, this is a portrait of the Sheffield trio (including master tapehead Chris Watson, prior to his departure halfway into the 2 X 45 sessions) at the darkest height of their considerable powers. It doesn't fully succeed at capturing them in the best light, but as a map of their progress, it's irreplaceable. Note the simplicity inherent in the tinny, synthetic squeakbeats of \"Do the Mussolini (Headkick)\" in contrast with the wailing backalley sax and driving rhythm of \"Wait & Shuffle\". Compare the tense dynamic created between the erratic bass rumblings and pulsating, omnipresent whine of \"The SetUp\" with \"Yashar\"'s barely there Arabian textures. All of the material predates Cabaret Voltaire's eventual move towards dancefloor electronica shortly after Watson called it quits, and so it shares the same bleak, oppressive vibe. Nevertheless, the contrast between the band's early singles and the material from Red Mecca and 2 X 45 makes for a jarring listen. The complexity of these compositions increases in magnitude from album to album; for that reason alone, it's striking to hear the succession of tracks included. By the time it comes around to 1981, you can almost hear history taking root. The shame of it is that on some level, the homemovieesque documentation of Cabaret Voltaire's \"gestation period\" a number of singles, as well as samples from the first two fulllengths, MixUp and The Voice of America just can't present the best possible album. As impressive as many of these cuts are, the stepping stones to greatness aren't in the same league as the finished product. Excepting the absolute necessity of the included \"No Escape\" and \"This Is Entertainment\", a simple bestof could be culled from nothing but the strongest moments of their early 80s material. It's not severely to the detriment of The Original Sound of Sheffield to do without the numerous alternative contenders it eliminates, but there's still the unmistakable sting of a missed opportunity. At the very least, the collection presents an astonishing succession of advances; Cabaret Voltaire's music was truly \"built from nothing\" and that has rarely been as evident as it is here. "}