{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12239/homepage_large.edbc79ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan McGarvey","artist":"SJ Esau","title":"Small Vessel","text":" SJ Esau started his career as a barely adolescent MC in the late 1980s Bristol scene before becoming an electronic/indie songwriter, and Small Vessel is his second album for anitcon. When Esau (given name Samuel Wisternoff), keeps his head and his guitar here on earth, Small Vessel produces more than a few cute, quixotic songs. He merges his sophomoric, nottakinghimselftooseriously approach to lyrics \"I can only be reasonable for some,\" he mews with modest (by his standards) studio tinkering: only a few fuzzy loops and peeled strings haunt the background (\"Bastard Eyes\", the album's best song), and there's often only a bloated bassline and crackling, steady drum machine for company (\"What Happen'd\"). These few songs are far from outstanding, but they're at least strong enough to hint at a face behind the sonic experiments. Like hundreds of other paint, sound, or wordflingers, Esau in fact does his most resonant and reasonable work when he puts himself inside the neat bounds of convention.It's when Esau indulges himself, and turns his internal aesthetic notches to \"challenging,\" that his strengths and charms run into each other and then run aground, churning out maddening scraps of wouldbe tracks less than a minute long, compositions sliding into a sort of tweedy discursiveness where parcels of bells and rewound loops glare like catchphrases repeated and then repeated louder. Esau is smart enough to at least tailor his lyrics to this almost manic obsession with rebooting \"The catalyst/ Identify/ And kill!\"But skitlength fragments, no matter how selfaware or tongueinjowls they may be, do not an album make. As refreshing as the title track's DecemberistscumWhy? shanty chant is, it's still only 18 seconds of refreshment. Esau is neither Wire nor J Dilla (though, to be fair, who is?). His attempts to conjure songs or collages of sound in 90 seconds simply will not stick. These shards fall into two categories: microscopic, rote guitar riffs or the DJ doodle that attempts to weld a looped infant cry, the sound of pouring water, and what sounds like a gasp in reverse. The four or five songs actually carried to term have nothing to prop them up. Begging for shape, denaturing under the sheer plethora of contributors (the liner notes have close to a dozen other drummers, cellists, singers, violists most of whom stop by for a single song), Small Vessel instead is passively sequenced, naked of thematics (nautical images and selfloathing would be the closest), and does everything in it's power to bury its moments of tranquil success (\"Depth Perception Lack\", \"Bastard Eyes\", \"Under Certain Things\") under heaps of artiste futzing.But even those caveats feel inaccurate. Small Vessel's strengths aren't unique; you can find dozens of whimsical, pseudosurreal songwriters of this ilk (Why?, The Guillemots, Thee More Shallows, to start) who clutter their discs with fewer scribbles and less backhanded flippancy. "}