{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12238/homepage_large.10e16555.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Total 9","text":" People have complained about the institutionalization of the Kompakt brand for so long now that the complaint itself has become something of a cliché, and it seems gauche even to acknowledge it here. More surprising than the persistent quality of the German dance label's annual compilations is the fact that anyone expects anything else at that stage: Its apparently endless stream of glistening techhouse chugathons shows no sign of flagging. It's a reliability that conjures up descriptions rarely applied to dance music \"staunch\" and \"stalwart\" come to mind. But reliability invites complacent enjoyment, which can easily degenerate into contempt. It probably doesn't help that the last few volumes of the Total series have progressively sanded down the label's spikier tendencies in an increasing commitment to softcore lushness. On Total 9, only the blocky, discordant piano strut of Wolfgang Voigt's \"Geduld\" reflects how Kompakt releases could occasionally make for difficult listening back in the day, and the fact that Voigt resurrects his old Freiland moniker for this track suggests he's keenly aware of the label's changed identity. If the excellent Total 7 was the label's prettiest collection, and the quitegood Total 8 its most fashionably Detroitinspired, this year's marginally superior roundup embraces both of those attributes and pushes them further. Disc Two delves deeper than ever before into the melodic, viscous, tranceinflected techno that is becoming the label's bread and butter, offering a puree of synth sweeps that coalesce into arpeggios, harden into riffs, blur into chords, and then melt into dub echo most radically on Kaito's \"Everlasting Dub\". As mood muzak it's superlative, if occasionally forgettable, though it's hard to fault the delicate Detroit ripples of Dubshape's \"Droplets (Early Night Mix)\", or the gorgeously aching throb of Jonas Bering's \"I Can't Stop Loving You\". Disc One may be the label's most popminded assemblage, as well as its most lighthearted, as if the arch cheerfulness of last year's Supermayer album opened a floodgate. Jürgen Paape's irresistible \"Come Into My Life\" is the label's shiniest piece of propulsive pophouse to date, while Supermayer's \"Hey Hotties\" is a radical improvement on the dubious discofunk blueprint they established with \"The Art of Letting Go\"; conversely, the grin of Superpitcher's Soul II Soulmangling solo effort \"Disko (You Don't Care)\" comes off slightly forced. Happily, all is forgiven with his marvelous (albeit selfcannibalizing) broodfest collaboration with Congosound, \"Say I'm Your Number One\".  But the real standouts come from the label's two resident malcontents: DJ Koze's \"Zouzou\" reconstructs \"tribal house\" with only the genre's name to go on, offering a disorienting melange of grunts, sighs, whispers, and fluttering gamelan; even better is Matias Aguayo's sly, addictive \"Minimal\", a tongueincheek critique of contemporary European techno (\"'cause that music got no groove  got no balls  no me hace pumpin' pumpin' pumpin'!\") performed as sleazy mutant disco. Moments like these provide a timely reminder of how perverse the label's muse can be, even as it becomes more familiar with age.  Ideally, the Kompakt aesthetic wouldn't need to change: imagine its core group of artists as a techhouse equivalent of the Blue Nile, periodically emerging from their hermitage to unleash another collection of perfectionist and atemporal emohouse, unabashedly lush and swooningly romantic. Were Kompakt less prolific, less popular, and (above all) less available, one could well imagine such a brandpreserving mystique accumulating around their timeless aesthetic. After all, a moribund fetish for privation is basically all that keeps the critical hosannas for Basic Channelaping dubtechno flowing thick and fast. In this sense, Kompakt are hamstrung by the inescapable fact of being a major dance label, heroically attempting to regularly satisfy the demands of both superclubs and solitude. This allows the label to produce two reasonably solid discs of highlights each year an enviable feat but in dance music healthy activity can cut both ways: a glut of good product can clog up the waterways, making lines of flight and innovation hard to see and even harder to move towards. Dissatisfactions with Kompakt are for the most part less about Kompakt itself than what its persistence represents; a world in which the label remains viable, let alone preeminent, is a world without revolutions or \"year zero\" transformations.  Total 9's biggest talkingpoint is Jorg Bürger's \"Modernism Begins at Home\", a gentle loungehouse cover of Human Resource's brutalist early nineties rave anthem \"Dominator\", its cheerful, polite rejoinders (\"in other words, sucker, there is no other!\") and lush arrangement reminiscent of Senor Coconut injecting a tropical sway into Kraftwerk's \"Showroom Dummies\". Conceptually, if not sonically, it's the ideal Kompakt track, more about rave culture rather than of it, and seeking to shortcircuit the distance between dance music's (increasingly rare) penchant for functionalist oblivion and its keen sense of history, the outside, the everything else it forsakes in pursuit of that goal. This has been Kompakt's story since before its inception, ever since Wolfgang Voigt looped eerie, faded German schlager vocals over a murky schaffel groove on \"Fackeln Im Sturm\" 10 years ago. A good story, and welltold still, but there's less cause to hold your breath when you already know how it ends. "}