{"label":" Geffen","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12245/homepage_large.39310c44.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"The Game","title":"L.A.X.","text":" Reality used to be a friend of Game; these days, he's better off with its close cousin, perception. Statistically, his short but eventful career is in a freefall his sophomore album, Doctor's Advocate, sold several million fewer copies than its predecessor, The Documentary, his first feature film (Waist Deep) couldn't even be enjoyed ironically, and I've never seen his Converse Hurricane shoe in stores, let alone in public. And I live in L.A. Yet, the perception is that he's riding a head of artistic steam into L.A.X. due to, as Pitchfork contributor Jayson Greene put it, shedding the impression that he's one of the least interesting rappers to ever go platinum. Where he was once reverent of anyone in hiphop that had been in the same room as a record deal, the Game soon alienated nearly everyone responsible for The Document's success as far as roleplaying goes, unstable psycho was infinitely more entertaining than namedropping money pit.The problem is, selfimmolation is an artistic ideal that doesn't leave much of an exit strategy, and once the dud singles and release dates started piling up for L.A.X., Game was left to do his A.J. Soprano routine in magazines, unable to handle his daddy issues and at times threatening to kill other people or himself. The perception of Doctor's Advocate as career suicide made it a voyeuristic pleasure for the messageboard rubberneckers Game actively courts. That inferiority complex and desperate need for approval keeps L.A.X. surprisingly entertaining even though there are far more weak tracks on it than good ones.Still, it's difficult to keep seeing him as a loose cannon (\"Hated on so much/ Passion of Christ need a sequel,\" he raps) when most of his adversaries respond to his beefs by completely ignoring him, and when nearly every viable hiphop artist (plus Travis Barker) makes a guest spot here. Obviously, a lot of those spots are late90sstyle padding: If DMX's performance on the intro and outro are any indication, his gospelrap ambitions should result in the comedy record of the year, and while Tha Carter III has sold 25,000 copies in the time it takes to read this paragraph, the beyondhideous hook of \"woe is Game\" weepie \"My Life\" suggests Lil Wayne's too in hock to buy an autotuner that can work at full capacity. Befitting someone who, to be honest, is still learning on the job, Game continues to improve although there are certain handicaps that he'll never overcome he compares himself to Chris Paul (\"I never dribble out of bounds\"), but he's more like Shaq trying to run a fastbreak. There's something almost endearing about the confidence he has in his lumbering flow (watch him try a doubletime spit on \"L.A.X. Files\" or lope triplets on \"Cali Sunshine\") and limited ability to create on the fly, but really, you just brace yourself and hope no one gets seriously injured. His similes can still be painfully awkward (\"flow like oregano\"?), his boasts more idiot than savant (\"Word to Martha Stewart/ If I can park a Buick/ I can flip a Brinks truck/ I've got the heart to do it\"), and he relies on variants of \"fuck\" to fill up syllables to the point where charging money for a clean version is a \"fuck you\" in itself. At least he only threatens to break into Dr. Dre's house once. For better or worse, his increasing confidence has allowed him to aim for concepts beyond the usual talk of how dangerous California is, trading darts with Raekwon and making a bilious rainmaker with Cool & Dre that rejiggers \"She Works Hard for the Money\" into Game's very own \"Push It to the Limit\". But then you get idea tracks like \"Never Say Goodbye\", which is rapped from the perspective of 2Pac, Biggie and EazyE right before their deaths; the \"One More Chance\" karaoke in the middle portion is probably the most embarrassing thing Game will ever do in his career, which is saying something. But at least that seems like a noble failure no matter how much better Game gets on the mic, he'll never record a decent love song or stop trying. His bullish voice, however, sounds more convincing talking about Ice Cube's Lethal Injection than anything with the faintest hint of eroticism not even David Tyree would vouch for \"beautiful as an Eli Manning pass\" as a viable pickup line.After Ludacris effortlessly sasses up \"Ya Heard\" like Game never could, he laments the attention given to Kanye and Weezy before asking, \"Y'all act like y'all don't hear me spit/ Like selling 7 million records ain't shit\". It's an absurd boast but it's a canny move to align himself as a peer of those two as opposed to an adversary the hundreds of barbs Game threw at 50 Cent had a fraction of the impact Wayne and Kanye exerted by speaking the only language Curtis understands: record sales. But the Game may have at least unloosened the screws for GUnit's epic collapse. Relatively, he's won Round 3 by making his third straight album that's better than it has any right to be but the fact that the Game can make perfectly uncompelling competence sound like victory is proof that he's a master thespian of hiphop theater. Waist Deep notwithstanding. "}