{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12242/homepage_large.6c24f329.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Robbie Mackey","artist":"Jesu","title":"Why Are We Not Perfect? EP","text":" It was bound to happen. With the release of 2007's Lifeline, and the fulllength Conqueror it supplemented, Justin Broadrick inched even further away from the monolithic dirgemetal and slowslung elegies he created on the first handful of Jesu releases. Instead what he mined was something more polished, much more melodic, almost soft. On Why Are We Not Perfect?, the third of many Jesu releases this year, and an alttake aided CD version of the songs he contributed to last year's Eluvium split, the former Napalm Death and Godflesh flagshipper seems to be tiring even further of girth and his guitar or at the very least, of the way he's been using it for the past 20odd years. Why Are We Not Perfect?, like the introductory Heart Ache EP, features Broadrick on all instruments. In at least one way then, this EP is a fitting bookend for another transformative stretch of his evertransforming career. Only where Ache's directness came in its smokebreathing detuned dirginess, Perfect is an exploration of the unmetal sonics of shoegaze and general pleasantness that Broadrick has been gravitating towards since adopting the Jesu banner in 2003. Here, for better or worse, those smeared, treated tones that underpinned the crushing guitars of past records are the guiding force, leaving behind a distillate that couldn't conceivably be called heavy, and that rarely achieves the trancy throb that has become Jesu's hallmark. Basically, if the earlier stuff was a crushing metal wall of My Bloody Valentine, this EP resembles something like a wobbly, drummachine Slowdive, drenched in syrup and slowed to a crawl, stretching and contorting fewer, less dense elements over Jesu's characteristic plod.Of course, the pareitdown and turnitdown schematic serves Broadrick's evolving, increasingly refined palette well in spots. Here, he's forced to make each element as rich as possible, creating a kind of texture that still suggests Jesu's characteristic layering, despite the general sparseness of the record. It makes for a surprisingly compact and strong three minutes on the instrumental \"Blind and Faithless\", which is built from a muddy, slowphaser Ride guitar strum and codeinesupping triphop drum programming. Extra accoutrements? An accumulating wind like a Gregorian chant, a twonote synth string tone that squeals like a firework, and little else. For a dude specializing in suffocating meganess, the track's simplicity is almost refreshing. And it doesn't hurt that \"Faithless\" is the only instrumental song here, forgoing Jesu's weakest asset: Broadrick's increasingly dewy vocals.But where Perfect truly fails is in its decision to pit fourfifths of the album against itself. Not only does his twosongsdonetwice thing draw attention to the ineffectiveness of the increasingly prominent drum programming on many tracks (or the general sameness of Broadrick's compositions), but adding the second takes of the albumopening \"Farewell\" and the titletrack undercuts what came before and forces the listener to pick between strikingly different versions of the same songs. Still, in a lot of ways that's apropos. If anything, Broadrick is a noncommittal songwriter, never settling in any set of footprints too long. And he likely won't pitch a tent here. Which is reassuring to know when listening to Perfect, a sleepy little record that loses the map just as Broadrick reaches his latest fork in the road. "}