{"label":" Atlantic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12252/homepage_large.e842b6c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Bloc Party","title":"Intimacy","text":" If it wasn't the name of this record, there's almost no way I'd use the word \"intimacy\" in relation to Bloc Party. Producers Paul Epworth and Jackknife Lee put their own distinctive sonic marks on the band's first two studio albums, but both made big, universal sounds rather than personal ones: Epworth's work on Silent Alarm introduced the group as cold and harsh, while Lee's A Weekend in the City was brash and flourescent a better fit for the band, even as singer Kele Okereke's increased candor has saddled his songs with clumsy, selfpitying lyrics. Still, thanks to the enduring goodwill they earned with that first album and their superserious attention to craft, it wasn't unthinkable to view Weekend as their October, an endearingly awkward transition between a bracing debut and a masterpiece every bit as outsized as the ambitions of its creators. Sadly, album number three is less War than Evil Urges.In a recent interview with Pitchfork, bassist Gordon Moakes admitted that Bloc Party haven't toured much of the album yet, and as a result, much of Intimacy feels overthought and underwritten, its jackinthebox studio effects attempting to cover for a lack of substance. Where \"Like Eating Glass\" and \"Pioneers\" steadily built towards barely controlled chaos with unpredictability and positive tension, \"Ares\" engages in allout sonic warfare: Russell Lissack's guitar blares like a air raid siren, Okereke's vocals gets processed into Cheez Whiz, and if the rhythm section was in the studio at any point during the recording, you'd need surveillance videos to prove it. The same goes for the garish lead single \"Mercury\", which at least sticks due to the nagging repetition of its pieeyed hook.Though Lee and Epworth share production credits, it's obvious who Bloc Party is casting their lot with; maybe it's the quick turnaround or a desire to see Intimacy in a better light, but it's easy to judge this as Another Weekend in the City: The BSides. With its lulling arpeggios and hushed chorus, \"Biko\" (not a Peter Gabriel cover) feels like an unfinished demo of the band's own \"Uniform\" precisely the point where their last record went south. Where Lissack and Okereke's guitars once pierced with precision, the riffs of \"Halo\" and \"One Month Off\" haphazardly stack sixteenthnotes in search of the right angle. And while Okereke isn't as stuck on the minutiae of his hangovers, his romanticism still often results in clunky poetry the livewire fritz of \"Trojan Horse\" is immediately shortcircuited by bad Robert Smith karaoke (\"You used to take your watch off before we made love/ You didn't want to share our time with anyone\").Another issue lies in the sequencing, as the record's second half shows more promise: \"Better Than Heaven\" hurtles through a steely echo chamber into Intimacy's only satisfying rockout, while the endless headrush of \"Ion Sphere\" proves the band can be epic without dozens of guitar overdubs a lesson lost on \"Zephyrus\", which hides Bloc Party's weakest tune yet under drum machine clatter. And like some sort of fever dream from 2005, \"Signs\" dreamily offers sweet nothings over a combination of Illinois interstitials and an ebullient synth pulse. It's gorgeous, but with all those bells and chimes, how could it not be? Even as the highlight of Intimacy, it's still evidence of an overarching problem plaguing the band, going from the implied, tightly coiled menace of the prophetically titled Silent Alarm to ProtectedbyViper obviousness.While Okereke has described Intimacy as a breakup album, it feels like more of a document of a band disconnected from itself. Bloc Party's area of expertise as of late seems to be gloopy love songs, and their increased willingness to leave behind the spiky postpunk of Silent Alarm should conceivably only help them. But it's almost like they're embarrassed about it, or at least regretful that they've paved a path that can only allow them to get bigger. Rather than exploring depth, detail, and texture, the band puts their willingness to experiment in the hands of Lee, a rock producer, and like his charges of the past (Snow Patrol, R.E.M., U2), Bloc Party is encouraged to delve into electronic music in only the most arenaready terms possible. Credit the band with being too restless to just rewrite \"Price of Gas\" 12 times we're just hoping they're bold enough to realize that songs like \"Ion Sphere\" and \"Signs\" prove they're now closer to next making Adore than War. "}