{"label":" On Your Own","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12293/homepage_large.861d8779.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"The Verve","title":"Forth","text":" Despite the fact that Verve singer Richard Ashcroft and guitarist Nick McCabe share a mutual regard that's more Sting and Stewart Copeland than Hall and Oates, or that it's been nearly a decade since the Wiganbased group was last functional, their reunion was a pretty easy call. You could take the succession of cheesescented flops known as \"Richard Ashcroft solo albums\" as evidence. You might also see the appeal of being a British band that makes epicsounding symphonic pop at a time when Coldplay are basically the biggest rock band in the world. Really, though, the reason is more elemental something everyone from JayZ to the Spice Girls knows is true: No selfmade messiah can exist without a resurrection.Of the toptier Britpopera heavyweights, Oasis catch the most flak for delusions of grandeur, but all they ever really wanted was for people to sing along in adoration: It's hard to imagine Noel Gallagher writing a song for any reason other than singleminded devotion to 1) hugeness, or 2) the chorus. Ashcroft wants you to sing along, too, sure but he also wants to heal, soothe, and illuminate. What else could the parting skies and emergent God rays on Forth's cover mean but that He hath returned?To be fair, musically speaking, about half of Forth is as good as the band's commercial breakthrough, Urban Hymns and, if you consider the general hit/miss ratio of decaderemoved comeback albums, that's actually a pretty respectable showing. It also helps to explain why at least some of the British press have met this new record with typically effusive praise: the soft bigotry of low expectations. (Granted, the Verve's two earlier records were actually a lot more interesting than Urban Hymns, but that's ancient history now.)The most useful thing about Forth is the mirror it reflects back on us now. In 1997, this kind of thing crisp, echoing guitars, provincial strings, existential moodiness actually sounded kind of exciting. Just over a decade later, though, the exact same recipe, prepared exactly the same way, conjures up new dominant aftertastes: false profundity, compositional laziness, and outsized egos. What changed? Is it just that we now have better access to more and wider varieties of music? Is monoculture dead? Are biglabel bands with these sorts of impulses the dinosaur rockers of the 00s? Maybe it's just that Forth seems so telegraphed and formulaic that its most awful moments, like the watereddown spacerock of the seriously appalling \"Judas\" (sample lyric: \"New York, I was Judas/ She said a latte double shot for Judas\") or the toothless blues jamming on the interminable \"Noise Epic\" (on which Ashcroft, uhh, raps), end up weighing heavier than the album's highlights. Those hoping to find the Verve in fullon cloudparting mode may be able to plug comfortably into songs like \"Sit and Wonder\", \"Rather Be\", \"I See Houses\", and \"Valium Skies\", but even these tracks feel simply like safe, calculated throwback exercises. Ashcroft wants this to be his holy hour, but to many of us, it'll sound a lot longer than that. "}