{"label":" Adored and Exploited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12288/homepage_large.dd73d4cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Beans","title":"Thorns","text":" In 2006, Beans, a founding MC from the avantrap outfit Antipop Consortium, treated fans to Only, a suite of digitally massaged studies in hiphop rhythm created with William Parker and Hamid Drake. The end result had the feel of leaner, glitchier jazz fusion. You halfexpected a Weather Report homage to come next. No such luck. On Thorns, Beans goes back to puffing himself up as the \"Ornette Coleman of this rap shit.\" He sees himself as a maverick, a straighttalking deviant with zero respect for his art form's commercialism. And it sure beats \"I'm the John McCain of this rap shit.\"Fiercely talented and outthere as he is, Beans isn't cutting a path into the vanguard, nor is he cooking up some landmark union between rap and Mbuti water music. The MC is simply good at what he's good at, putting together bushy, crooked beats with rhymes that are both confessional and evasive. Before Antipop Consortium temporarily called it quits in 2002, they all but invented this brainy style, assuming their name because they saw pop as a straitjacket: the freedom they sought for hiphop, as 2002's accurately titled Arrhythmia attests, wasn't far in spirit from Ornette's allbetsareoff vision of free jazz.Here Beans taps artists with the same joyful impatience with smooth surfaces. Ghostly International producer Dabrye sets the tone, sculpting \"Thundermouth\" out of malfunctioning, groceryscanner blips and looped strings that, with their brittle energy, call to mind a horror movie score. A posse of Casiowielding improvisers from Toronto, Holy Fuck, lend a very Antipop twitch of chaos into three tracks. From the campy Nintendo bass lines (\"No Thrills\" and \"Sudden Death Academics\") to the buzzsaw synth tones (\"Razor Boss\"), it's as if the band juryrigged the whole affair, E.T.style, out of household gadgets and children's toys. All this ragged innocence plays well against the moodier raps. The darkest of the lot, \"No Thrills\", goes on the warpath against G.O.P. \"family values,\" the hunt for Osama, and unappreciative black hiphop heads  an allover blitz held together by Beans' outrage and Holy Fuck's low tech antiarrangements.His own creations, stylistically, stay closer to classic Antipop with a twist. \"MVP\" may be the exception, the way it takes the chintzy ambience of a lowbudget soap opera  kitschy harps, syrupy licks, comically synthetic strings  and applies it to a selfdeprecating love letter that never takes itself too seriously. Texture is king, for the most part. But the open spaces, found between the flutes and flutter of \"Fingers\" or in the a capella \"Best of the Losers\", leave more room for his blazing, lavathick phrases to take center stage. Thorns proves that Beans can smoothly career between maximalism and minimalism when he's in his element, building on the scifi slam poetry heritage he created with High Priest, M. Sayyid, and Earl Blaize. "}