{"label":" President","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12298/homepage_large.cd0dd0e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Robots in Disguise","title":"We're in the Music Biz","text":" Unless you're one of those easeful folks who can just readily access/appreciate \"fun\" without overthinking, Robots in Disguise open up an abyss of compromises. To offer a personal example: I've always been a righteous objector to crushing on bands, yet I'm totally schoolyardsmitten with this duo. Which is weird, because I've historically found selfexploitative peekaboo sexuality to be the pinnacle of tackiness, and lo, these girls have upped the softporn coverart ante from their last album (which featured pretty much just their asses in tight jeans) by appearing topless in body paint. But, hey, in interviews they're well stoked about feminism and equality…It gets much worse. I mean, their moniker comes from the old Transformers catchphrase, but they mostly do mindless retro right. They're completely derivative, but of dozens of great bands. They're conspicuously modeish, but they've been clattering around since way back in 2000. They embrace metatropes and inside gags, but their performances are so committed that they somehow transcend novelty trappings. (Gawd, that makes them sound like Electric Six.) They have fake names Dee Plume and Sue Denim that translate to \"fake names.\" (Drumwork, human and otherwise, gets credited to Ann Droid, hardyharbarf.) As if they weren't already at risk of being considered a spoof band, they've performed as a more satirically electrotrash version of themselves called Kraftwerk Orange on Britcom The Mighty Boosh. (Plume's even a UK tabloid bitplayer as a result of dating Boosh star Noel Fielding, while Denim's romantically linked with their producer, Sneaker Pimp Chris Corner).So yeah, a pic of one of them in a diamondcheckered bodysuit is my pathetic bachelorpad desktop background (and I can't even deal with that press photo floating around, the one with the chinstraps and the biting each other). Plus: I'll admit that this record is abysmally sequenced the weakest tracks are the tinnierthantinny opener and the howdarethey closer; \"We're in the Music Biz\" is a selfdeprecating bit about, you know, being a band, while \"Don't Copy Me\" is way audacious coming from ladies whose sound is about original as Skechers' shoe designs. Ah, but everything in between yields some great rewards. The multivalent \"Can't Stop Getting Wasted\" and \"The Sex Has Made Me Stupid\" are HoldSteadycaliber in their roles as both hellraising party anthems and hungover lifestyle warnings. (I'd go so far as to say that the brilliantly simplistic, irresistibly catchy, and comprehensively remorseful \"Sex\" is the most tragic absentee from Pitchfork's Top Tracks of 2007.)New single \"The Tears\" is an angular, jokeless threatvamp that cribs from Joy Division's \"She's Lost Control\" (which Robots already snaked on 2005's \"Turn It Up\"). \"I Don't Have a God\" conflates sexual and spiritual tension as stirringly as Madonna's \"Like a Prayer\", or Linda Sundblad's churchy masturbationapology \"Oh Father\". Meanwhile, \"I'm Hit\" boasts a monster bassline, evoking a superAnglo CSS. So, as much as one might conceive of oneself as inured to the appeal of bratty, sneering fashionistas copping grambags of everything vogue, from nowave to dancepunk, Robots in Disguise stake out some middle ground between obnoxious and hot, grating and seductive, escapist and sober.And that's despite intervals that sound like Stereo Total or the Runaways at their worst. The undertone of loss and accountability throughout this album refutes naysayers who claim (as a recent Adbusters cover story did) that hipstercult has no capacity for reflection, and protects this witty project from getting dismissed as an othergendered sendup, a Weird Alice or Vaginal Tap. Indeed, hearing these gorgeous voices beg an abusive lover, like masochistic Oliver Twists, \"Please sir, can I have some more,\" and plead to the economy, \"Help me, I'm greedy!\" ranks among the most intense and passionate moments in my listenership this year. "}