{"label":" Language of Stone / Ilya Monosov","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12312/homepage_large.8c58bf4f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Ilya Monosov","title":"Seven Lucky Plays, or How to Fix Songs for a Broken Heart","text":" Is it possible to take Ilya Monosov as seriously as he takes himself? Even before you scan the tracklist, let along ilsten to his new album, you are beset with that flamboyant title, Seven Lucky Plays, or How to Fix Songs for a Broken Heart, and a cover photograph that, minding the laws of MySpace selfportraiture, aches to lay bare this man's whole spirit. It truly is that unmediated. Call it bruteforce sincerity.  \"Tricycle\" lays out the plan, with a softly tickled guitar that immediately recalls the Espers no surprise, given that Espers' Greg Weeks not only runs Language of Stone, the forestdwelling label putting out Seven Lucky Plays, but also recorded and played on this release. If only he picked up a pen. \"When I am in you/ I am reminded/ Of my tricycle,\" floats out as Monosov's nonsensical refrain, but it is the line \"I was busy chasing all the butterflies that captured all the color that I knew\" that nudges lethally close to Hallmark poetry. It's tough to pardon the sins perpetrated here as artifacts of bad translation: this would slight the mother language.Anyone can hear the rustic beauty in the arrangements, which pay respect to the Takoma fingerpicking masters among other earthy traditions, and Weeks is likely the man to thank. (At its moodier moments, the crossing of guitar and strings surprisingly bring to mind A Silver Mt. Zion, too.) But the aura is routinely punctured by Monosov's songwriting. A number of sleazily obvious lines (\"I tried to taste your beauty\") could easily pop up in the banter of a latenight Cinemax feature. And Monosov's voice, a murmuring, flatter echo of Leonard Cohen's, only amplifies the unpoetic creepiness of the material. In past releases for Eclipse and Elevator Bath (2005's Architectures on Air and Other Works) Monosov styled himself a \"sound artist\" more at home among the whitewalled galleries, with his highbrow play and brainy experiments, than the dustier trails of American folk. Seven Lucky Plays barely hints at this intellectually spunkier, if emotionally drier, past work. The press materials try. They boast that the songs here are based on 11 years of creative writing, saying that \"early exposure to Russian dissident culture greatly affected his life and art.\" If the end product didn't resemble a page from a hipster rake's Moleskine, mumbled into a tavern's open mike, that boast wouldn't seem so grotesque to historians of Russian dissident culture.The upside to all this is that there's a new restraint in Monosov's music that listeners will welcome. It is tempting to credit Weeks for this welcome change of emphasis: a compositional shift toward subtlety. But if Monosov is going to keep singing, he should extend this sense of understatement to his own words, pencilling out, say, bodily tastes and erotically charged tricycles, and replacing them with bolder images and better metaphors. We all hope the maturity that marked his earlier work will eventually spill into his writing tablet. Otherwise, Monosov should revisit and revive his wordless soundartist era. "}