{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12309/homepage_large.9e0a7b99.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Kimya Dawson","title":"Alphabutt","text":" Alphabutt, Kimya Dawson's longawaited children's album and her first release since contributing a handful of tracks to the Juno soundtrack is not so different from what she typically does: It's packed with odd, irreverent, snickering folksongs about banal or unremarkable situations. Only now, instead of skewering complex adult relationships, she's crowing, mostly, about poo. Inspired, in part, by her twoyear old daughter Panda Delilah, Alphabutt sees Dawson (formerly onehalf of New York antifolk duo the Moldy Peaches) singing simply and without affect, her voice deep and pleasantly scruffy, like a chewedup, oversquished teddy bear. Dawson takes a lot of hits for being precious (a good chunk of that derision is probably tied up in posthomeskillet backlash), but Alphabutt, while predictably cute, is also frank and funny and delightfully rude. It's accessible but not cloying; Dawson doesn't pander or patronize or adopt the kind of preposterous, overannunciated, beyondBroadway cartoon voice that plagues so many children's records. More important, her work is candid and funny and matchless: What parent wouldn't want to play his or her kid an alphabet song (the stupidcharming \"Alphabutt\") where 70% of the letters refer to multispecies flatulence, \"V\" stands for flyingV, and \"C\" stands for cat butt? Still, anyone without a child in the house, a preadolescent sense of humor, or a massive supply of psychotropic drugs might not find too much use for Alphabutt (babies and toddlers spend a good chunk of each day mulling scatological concerns; adults, less so, yet Dawson, nodding to her audience, references the business of excreting in nearly every track). This is a children's album, and Dawson is appropriately unapologetic about all that entails (see: lyrics about animals and potties and little monster babies). But Dawson's proclivity for simple acoustic melodies and for expertly incorporating found sound (kazoos, bells, a chorus of kids) mean that these songs however silly or gross are also artfully constructed. Predictably, some cuts are more adultfriendly than others. \"Happy Home (Keep on Writing)\" incidentally, at three and a half minutes, it's the second longest track here sees Dawson taking stock of the status quo, using grownup signifiers: \"There was a time in my life that I felt so all alone/ I never thought that someday I would have a happy home/ A family and a fourtrack/ RadioShack microphones/ A backyard and a hammock and a paidoff student loan,\" she sings. Likewise, \"I Love You Sweet Baby,\" a catalogue of a day in the life of a parentchild team, is an ode to parenthood and the ways in which it alters irrevocably an adult life: \"The first thing on our list of things to do/ Is to wake up right next to you/ Second thing that we have planned/ Is to kiss both of your hands,\" Dawson details.  Arguably the biggest challenge facing little Americans is the lack of (nonmarketed, noncommercial) culture speaking directly to them Alphabutt is honest and funny, and manages to sidestep all tired, kidsong tropes. Any parent tired of the \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" theme would do well by their tots to pick this up. "}