{"label":" Yep Roc","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12322/homepage_large.ff93690a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians","title":"Luminous Groove","text":" Even in his youth, Robyn Hitchcock never exactly seemed young. As the frontman of the Soft Boys, Hitchcock seemed driven by the bitterness of a precocious young man scorned, taking up characters such as an \"Old Pervert\" with a mocking and selfdeprecating sense of humor. In the period immediately following the dissolution of the Soft Boys, Hitchcock adopted a tenuously adult position, maturing in sound and approach while coveting both the comfort and the trauma of childhood.Luminous Groove, the second wellcurated and impeccably packaged Hitchcock box set released by Yep Roc, showcases an interesting and sorely underrated moment in Hitchcock's career. After releasing the excellent acoustic psychodrama I Often Dream of Trains, Hitchcock formed the Egyptians, a backing band consisting former Soft Boys Andy Metcalfe and Morris Windsor, and keyboardist Roger Jackson. In a sense, it's the first time in Hitchcock's career where he seems firmly grounded in the present, maintaining his interest in vivid and dreamlike imagery without obsessing over the bitterness of burgeoning adulthood or the lost innocence of youth.Fegmania! is the first and best of the albums compiled in Luminous Groove and among the strongest in Hitchcock's entire catalog, marrying the force and confidence of the Soft Boys with the focus and dexterity of Hitchcock's early solo work. Throughout Fegmania!, the structural complexity of Hitchcock's songwriting is emphasized and expanded upon by the capable Egyptians; unexpected turns and chord changes are at once more striking and less obtrusive when delivered by Hitchcock's tight and forceful band.Hitchcock's vocals are beautifully sophisticated as well, incorporating a Dylanesque singspeak into the weirdly intimate delivery of his acoustic output. Even when the Soft Boys were at their best, Hitchcock's vocals always seemed somehow tethered to the band's gestures, but on these records and Fegmania! in particular Hitchcock seems much less constrained and more adventurous. Perhaps as a result, his storytelling often seems more purposeful; while Hitchcock could get downright silly on his earlier albums, the undercurrents of absurdist humor in songs like \"My Wife and My Dead Wife\" are more subtle and, ultimately, more unnerving.Released just a year after Fegmania!, Element of Light fully succumbs to the grand pop gestures hinted at by its predecessors. The album's verses are sly and serpentine, its choruses almost obscenely indulgent. Hitchcock's delivery is alternately smooth and unhinged, at times unifying a song's melodic intricacies and at times serving primarily to enhance a song's rhythmic texture. Many of the same musical tics that Hitchcock would later develop on Eye are apparent here, not quite as coherent as on later records but bolstered by the energy of Hitchcock's backing band.Gotta Let This Hen Out! documents a live performance from 1985 (with the addition of several later live cuts), and shows the Egyptians at their most muscular. Opener \"Sometimes I Wish I Was a Pretty Girl\", originally from I Often Dream of Trains, explodes the original version's claustrophobia, stomping out the song's preciousness and highlighting the strength of its chord progression and overall structure. Similarly, a performance of the Soft Boys' \"Kingdom of Love\" speaks to Hitchcock's newfound skill as an arranger, bringing out subtleties that were undetectable in the original. Weirdly, the straighttotape sound of Gotta Let This Hen Out! is a breath of fresh air when compared the the statelyyetdated sound of the albums proper.One thing that Hitchcock's acoustic solo records do have over his work with the Egyptians is a vague but intriguing sense of thematic consistency; the bonus tracks included in this reissue (which, including the Bad Case of History 2xCD set, far outnumber the proper album cuts) don't add to the overall mystique of Hitchcock's work in the same way that the bonus cuts on the previous set did. However, the rarities selected for inclusion in this set are for the most part actual rarities, and in fact more consistent than the tracks rereleased as \"rarities\" for the I Wanna Go Backwards set. Bad Case of History offers one disc of previously unreleased studio outtakes and another of wellrecorded live performances, both of which are great listens and help flesh out Hitchcock's stylistic concerns during the twoyear period primarily documented in this set. The more psychedelic offerings on the studio disc are particularly strong, making an excellent case for Hitchcock's use of 12string guitar textures.The albums towards the middle of an extensive catalog like Hitchcock's often get overlooked in favor of influential early records and more recent records that benefit from endorsements and/or musical contributions from younger artists inspired by those early records. But the concurrent excitement and confidence of Luminous Groove make for a box set that is every bit as inspiring as anything else in Hitchcock's catalog. Hitchcock may be best known for his influence on and collaborations with R.E.M.'s Peter Buck, his offkilter lyrics, his odd demeanor, his patterned shirts, and a cameo in a Jonathan Demme film, but first and foremost he is a songwriter. To that effect, Luminous Groove may be the most compelling testament yet to Hitchcock's talent. "}