{"label":" Kitsuné","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12428/homepage_large.a44a9dde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Digitalism","title":"Kitsuné Tabloid","text":" If the electrohouse proffered by new Europowerhouse labels Ed Banger and Kitsuné Records doesn't yet have a proper rite of passage, it oughta be the mix CD. Ed Banger's premiere acts label head Busy P, DJ Medhi, and Justice can often be found chopping up and reimagining favorite records, so you'd think we'd see more highprofile DJ mixes coming out of the Parisian ranks. But other than Justice's (rejected) Fabric mix, which eventually circulated last year as a repackaged Christmas boot, there's just not much out there. Distinctly nonParisians Digitalism, who run in the same bloghouse circles as Justice and Simian Mobile Disco, are a logical act to kickstart this trend, so Kitsuné sent the Hamburg duo out to proffer the flagship release of their new Tabloid personal mix series.Kitsuné established Tabloid in order to give its artists the opportunity to tell a story via a DJ mix. It's a little surprising, then, how rushed this story plays out: all but three of the cuts here were released in the last two years, and only the Human League and the Jonzun Crew date before the turn of the century. The mix does well to reexpose current electrohouse producers mostly Kitsuné stalwarts to a new audience, but the duo does little to convince listeners that Kitsuné's got a new Fabric or DJKicks on their hands. With the oldest sound on the mix seeming to be the hilariously dorky Todd Rundgren sample on the Hot Chip selection \"Shake a Fist\", this story feels less like an epic and more like pulp.As expected, Tabloid hits the hard beats of a club that might have sounded revolutionary three years ago, but there's a distinct sense that something is missing. When the duo is mixing Zongamin's \"Tunnel Music\" and \"Raise Me Up\" by Hercules & Love Affair, it feels like a selfconscious transition rather than a confident break from the rhythmic guitar sample of the former. The drama that accompanies the buzzy changeovers the squeaks and squelches and buzzsaws put up by the best of the scene doesn't unify the Kitsuné cuts that deserve a fiery welcome. On the DerDieDas mix of Digitalism's track \"The Pulse\", there's just a bit of this immediacy: a sustained spark that carries itself all the way through, then reimagines itself in the phoenixlike rebirth of the Midnight Juggernauts track \"Ending of an Era\". But the drama that's so airily created and so obviously appreciated by the duo isn't sustained throughout the record.Digitalism really seem to want to introduce a larger world to their acerbic disco throb, but their payoffs hit like a wave of anticlimaxes. They tell a story on Tabloid of their meteoric rise and of the current state of electrohouse and nurave through the Kitsuné lens, with many of the featured artists having already seen release on the label. It turns out that Digitalism's Tabloid does a decent job tracking the evolution of this strange, percussive dancerock hybrid, but the narrative they offer isn't especially compelling. "}