{"label":" Decca","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12439/homepage_large.1bf1ec22.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"James","title":"Hey Ma","text":" James started out in the early 1980s as just another Manchester band trying to make it big, struggling for attention for the better part of the decade before 1990's Gold Mother finally closed the deal and made them famous. But it wasn't until James reinvented themselves with producer Brian Eno for 1993's largely acoustic Laid that they were revealed as more substantive than their broadstroke arenaready rock previously indicated. Out went trumpet player Andy Diagram, in came a sound close to what the Waterboys deemed \"the big music,\" songs at once anthemic and spiritual, though rarely explicitly so. Whiplash kept the ball rolling, but by the time James reconvened with Eno for the underrated Millionaires and its followup Pleased to Meet You, it was clear the band had peaked. Singer Tim Booth departed for a solo career (as well as some illadvised adventures in facial hair), the rest of the group went on hiatus, and the world moved on.A James reunion a mere six years later seems a little lame at first, even if the band never officially broke up, but at least the group has tried to keep things interesting. Hey Ma actually represents the reunion of the band's preLaid lineup, with Diagram back in the fold as well as guitarist Larry Gott, who had departed after that disc. There's also a sense of unfinished business, given the lukewarm reception to James' last two records neither Millionaires nor Pleased to Meet You initially even merited a U.S. release so one might presume James went into the studio with both everything and nothing to prove.Most intriguingly, James have split the difference sonically on Hey Ma, at once recalling their crowdpleasing roots and their subsequent experiments. In a way it's not unlike the compromise U2 have struck with their own recent work, except that James have never fully been able to buy into that band's brand of bombast and bullshit. Indeed, amidst the platitudes and vague social commentary coursing through much of Hey Ma is a renewed sense of mirthfulness that cuts through much of the pretension. This is the same band, after all, photographed in dresses eating bananas on the cover of the otherwise ultraserious Laid.Not that James (or at least Booth) aren't above the occasional burst of bullshit or pretension. The title track may be the most belated response to September 11th imaginable, even if it does make the unlikely chorus of \"Hey Ma, the boys in body bags, coming home in pieces\" come off like some surreal rallying cry. Later, in \"72\", Booth takes aim at religion, and particularly Muslim fanatics, with his rhetorical jab \"You're going to murder in the name of god/ What kind of god you dreaming of.\" Lines like this seem distractingly contemporary from a band not always known for being topical, while at the same time oddly backdated, as if this song (or these ideas) had been sitting around for a while only to be aired now.The new ageisms of \"Waterfall\" are ultimately banal as well, but there's still a refreshingly earnest confessional honesty to Booth's apparent crisis of middle age. \"My mirror's laughing at me, says, boy, are you getting old,\" he sings, getting straight to the point before getting in touch with nature, hugging horses, and dreaming of Mexico as an antidote to 21st century materialism. In \"Whiteboy\", Booth even gets off one of the all time great selfdeprecating lines about aging, \"My mum says I look like Yul Brynner/ Too old for Hamlet, too young for Lear.\" It's hard to imagine someone like Bono ever singing that.Lyrics like those make up for the clunkers, but more importantly, the music itself sounds shockingly vibrant for a band only recently taken off ice. It's hard to remain unmoved by Booth proclaiming \"I'm alive!\" as \"Bubbles\" matches the sentiment by reaching ever more grandiose and inspiring heights. The chorus of \"Waterfall\" is huge and hopeful, while \"Oh My Heart\" is somehow even bigger. Even the literalminded \"Hey Ma\" rides a hook every bit as singalong huge as the band's iconic \"Sit Down\".On the softer side, \"Semaphore\" and \"Of Monsters and Heroes and Men\" would have been unthinkable were it not for the band's atmospheric Eno years. Certainly they're more convincing as mellow anthems than Coldplay's recent attempts, undercut as those are by the subtle sense of selfloathing that surrounds Chris Martin. Tim Booth has no such compunctions, which is how he's able to deliver such rousing power ballads as \"Upside\" and \"I Wanna Go Home\" with all the conviction of someone who has found god and wants nothing more than to share that beauty with everyone he meets. Even at this late stage, the band's out to make believers of us all. "}