{"label":" Almost Gold","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12449/homepage_large.3064fa34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Shugo Tokumaru","title":"Exit","text":" It's nearly autumn in the States. The leaves are turning, the air has cooled right to the point where you don't notice it, people are looking to settle into an easy, neutral gear. It's also the perfect time for the U.S. debut of Shugo Tokumaru's Exit, the first of his records to get a proper American release. Fans of Tokumaru's previous LPs, 2004's Night Piece and 2006's L.S.T., will find no surprises on his latest he's still gently mining 1960s pop from around the globe and capturing it with a soft production and a sense of humor. Tokumaru builds each of his 10 tracks around a perfectly constructed melody. With an affection for folk and acoustic and found instruments he reportedly has over 100 music makers in his bedroom, not counting toys he makes eclectic choices in the arrangements, but he never distracts you into inventorying them.Wooden flutes, accordions, tinkling percussion, and brisk acoustic guitars all come together on Tokumaru's bedroom Mac. Clanging percussion and a melodica chase each other through \"Green Rain\" or during the frenzy of \"Future Umbrella\" featuring more western and eastern fretted instruments than this reviewer can identify which comes off as a light whimsy. And the album's nearrocker, \"Clocca\", taps psychedelia with backward guitar samples, a disoriented harmonium, and baffled flutes.Woven through it all is Tokumaru's easy tenor. It's too laid back to be evocative, but isn't merely soothing, either; maybe the best way to peg it is that evokes a feeling of being soothed. He plays humble in interviews, but on record he comes off as effortless, even cool. And it takes a special kind of cool to borrow so many familiar and loaded styles without looking like you're merely dabbling.There are enough instrumental interludes and understated melodies here to make the record a grower, and it eases into the sunset for much of its back half. Albumcloser \"Wedding\" has as fine a melody as any of them, but there's a palpable sense that Tokumaru's perfectly content as a warmup act for the crickets. And after three albums of such pleasurable, wellcrafted music, it's churlish to wonder if Tokumaru will budge from this routine if he'll push into new directions, or keep making evenkeel pop that's evermore perfect and evermore effortlessly sews up its influences. At this rate, the most nostalgic thing about listening to a Tokumaru record in the future might be the memories they bring back of his earlier ones. "}