{"label":" Music World","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12446/homepage_large.84926bd7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Solange","title":"Sol-Angel and the Hadley St. Dreams","text":" The landscape of contemporary R&B is littered with the bones of selfstyled mavericks Imani Coppola, Lina, even Kelis of late. So it's with trepidation that I endorse Solange Knowles' second album; its cryptic, wordy title already promising a fatally overambitious statement at odds with the more mercantile concerns of mainstream pop. In reality, SolAngel and the Hadley St. Dreams is more familiar than its title and coverart might suggest, most of it riding the classicist Motown framework repopularized by Amerie and producer Rich Harrison. Instead, Solange's vision and, depending on how you look at it, pretension manifests in an aesthetic of excess: On \"Would've Been the One\", the sudden rhythmic contortions, the dizzying chord progressions, the toobright dazzle of Solange's vocal and the excesses of her harmonies combine to form something gloriously surplustorequirements. Likewise, the conflicted \"T.O.N.Y.\", with its circular lyrical fixations (the onenightstand that got away) and lurching groove, at first feels somehow topheavy before snapping into place with a charming shortcircuit of restless confusion and explosive conviction.At her least, Solange can be too mannered, knocking out flawless period pieces that float past without leaving a trace, her wispy voice, plush arrangements, and oblique, counterintuitive hooks offering too much of a good thing no one except nusoul enthusiasts wants that much studious classiness. And there are times when everything gets surprisingly arch: the toetapping jazzballet patter of \"I Decided, Pt. 1\" sounds a bit like an offBroadway paean to Motown, its deliberate facsimile of a facsimile of soul signifiers relying on Solange's declamatory performance to carry it to victory. But it's when she abandons the rigorous structures of soul revivalism that this tooclever vibe can get a bit too much see \"Cosmic Journey\", a softcentred glitchpop ballad whose swooning loveliness is tarnished slightly by its heavyhanded title and unnecessary \"psychedelic\" technotrance coda. Many will applaud the daring of the handful of electronic tracks here album closer \"This Bird\" is even built around a Boards of Canada sample but I'm afraid we'd consider this same thing juvenile from, say, Imogen Heap. In fairness, Solange isn't lapsing into cliché here: The arrangements are unpredictable, and the lyrics even more so; on \"This Bird\" she sighs over how \"your dad drives a foreign car and your momma looks like a beauty queen,\" in an inscrutable tribute to Gershwin, before delicately advising the listener to \"just shut the fuck up.\" But there's a tinge of diaristic adolescence in the way she inevitably fuses these sonic journeys with a thematic obsession with boundlessness, her incomparable surpassing of all expectations and limitations.Predictably, then, it's when Solange slows down and lets the world catch up that she's most arresting. On \"I Decided, Pt. 2\", a straighttothepoint remix of its predecessor by erstwhile commercial house merchants the Freemasons, she unabashedly embraces streamlined pop form, her sassy performance somehow finding a new urgency amidst the very anonymity of the song's sugary, Phil Spectormeetsglam arrangement. Call it \"generic,\" but here the term is a compliment: Any hint of eccentricity would be a blemish marring the song's perfectly proportioned, irresistibly svelte figure. It's not a case of Solange performing best when she jettisons her ambition, but rather her need to find a way to let her avant inclinations work with rather than against her pop instincts, and maybe the best way for that to happen is to let the former emerge organically through the latter. Only marginally behind \"I Decided, Pt. 2\" in terms of impact (and, perhaps, marginally more loveable) is \"Sandcastle Disco\" its lightasafeather summertime funk strut leavened by an utterly magical chorus. A bid for chart success? Undoubtedly, but Solange makes it her own with a crescendo performance like a bubble of terrified elation swelling up in your chest. When she can do scrunchfaced joy so purely, so superlatively, why bother with windowdressing? "}