{"label":" ECM","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12512/homepage_large.bb894073.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Morton Feldman","title":"The Viola in My Life","text":" Mark Twain famously said that the maxim puts \"a minimum of sound to a maximum of sense.\" This perfectly describes the music of Morton Feldman, which resounds and vanishes simultaneously, with the limitless patience of something with nowhere in particular to go.Feldman came of musical age in a postwar America whose collective faith in progress had fallen casualty to concentration camps, atomic weapons, and other unfathomable horrors. Works that favored indeterminacy, repetition, and chance operations became accurate reflections of the world, which no longer obeyed any coherent narrative. It was an artistic moment characterized, as Vivian Gornick wonderfully put it in a recent Harper's article, by \"the veneration of spiritual exhaustion.\"Feldman plied the art of exhaustion alongside John Cage, his close collaborator in New York and fellow trailblazer in untraditional notation and aleatoric composition, and the abstract expressionist painters (especially Robert Rauschenberg) whose liminal works in paint and collage Feldman mirrored in sound. All of them made art upon the model of weather, shifting atmospheric occurrences that could be endlessly pondered but not fathomed. Feldman especially courted this metaphor: He was a gatherer of ominous clouds presaging storms that never broke.Like most of Feldman's music, The Viola in My Life is fractured, mercurial, and seems indeterminately shaped: the ectoplasmic music of dreams. But in fact, Viola has a prescribed shape; the illusion of randomness stems from the protracted durations that were Feldman's specialty. The work's composition began in 1970, when he was returning to circumscribed charts after a long period of working with indeterminate graphic notations. In the middle of his career, he had the confidence to exile chance from his music while still sounding inimitably like himself.This new recording of Viola's four parts, originally written for American violist Karen Phillips, is conducted by Christian Eggen and played by the Cikada Ensemble and the Norwegian Radio Orchestra (while the viola, here played by Marek Konstantynowicz, is the primary engine, the piece includes flute, violin, piano, clarinet, celesta, percussion, and more). It's a remarkably austere work, where, as Paul Griffiths says in his liner notes, it's as if \"much of the music has been washed away, and we can hear only what's left.\"What's left resembles a series of stepping stones in a dark, still pool, meandering aimlessly and often leaving the listener stranded somewhere in the middle. It lacks neither meter nor tonality, but goes to great lengths to obscure them via strategic omission and glacial tempo. Single viola notes well up and quickly subside beneath a vast nothingness, so that the music seems to be continually straining to begin. Contrapuntal flecks of piano, muffled percussion, and piercing woodwinds fill in some of the blanks, but not nearly all. Until the final movement, where the viola sinks into a bed of severe but comparatively full orchestration, Feldman plumbs the depths of the uncanny quietude just this side of silence.Viola asks for your undivided attention, and even then, it takes several listens to detect the shape of its crescendos; that sense of discovery is its reward. As such, it's supremely illsuited to the multitasked attention and rapid digestion that characterize modern listening habits. And this is exactly what makes Feldman's music relevant in 2008: For me, it's about stepping out of the fastpaced clamor of mp3 aggregators, into a slow, quiet place where the act of listening becomes more like a meditation than a frenzy. "}