{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12508/homepage_large.ba6b6977.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"The Red Krayola","title":"Fingerpointing","text":" Like a great CEO, Mayo Thompson identifies his blind spots and surrounds himself with talented people. When Red Krayola's avantgarde sparkle wore off in the mid1970s, Thompson began a series of collaborations: with the Art & Language collective in the 70s, with the Raincoats and Pere Ubu in the 80s, and with Chicago's postrock scene in the 90s. Fingerpainting, the 1999 Red Krayola album that resulted from Thompson's work with David Grubbs, Stephen Prina, et al. has been widely decried as one of the worst of Thompson's career, but it's redressed here as Fingerpointing, Jim O'Rourke's edit of the Fingerpainting sessions. It's a wholly odd revision, tightening the original album's turgid \"jams\" and tidying up its songcraft, but, in doing so, trading one set of indulgences for another.  Avantgarde artists are often forgiven their worst sins the world has turned a blind eye to Faust's post1990 material, for example but it's unlikely anyone is going to absolve the Red Krayola for releasing a 40minute \"remix\" nearly a decade after the fact, much less so telling fans that the remix, the original album, and the Red Krayola debut Parable of Arable Land can be played simultaneously, Zaireekastyle, despite three different runtimes and Parable having been recorded nearly 30 years prior to Fingerpainting with a separate group of musicians. (Here, let me save you some trouble: the rhythmic syncup isn't quite as hellacious as you might think, but it otherwise sounds very much like you would expect twoandahalf distinct Red Krayola albums to sound when played simultaneously.)  Adding insult to...insult, Fingerpointing's modest improvements on Fingerpainting come packaged as one continuous track, wagering that O'Rourke's pruning and primping are worth the loss of selfediting.Fingerpointing's presentation is silliness and arrogance on a grand scale, but O'Rourke does improve on Fingerpainting, and in doing so encourages a rethinking of the album's maligned status. O'Rourke wisely pares down noisiest, wordless bits, converting bullshit improvisations with names like \"The Greed of a Clarinet That Is Puffy From Crying Gets Tossed in Butter and Spread by Notes\" into tolerable interludes (and retabbing them, in the style of Parable, as \"Freeform Freakout\" volumes). Thompson's approximations of \"proper\" songs benefit most from the remastering, lifting his plain, familiar voice above his band's bookish clatter. Mayo's guitar is rough and gray and predictable, like a sidewalk, but its crude interplay with the electronic boil presumably provided mostly by the Chicago folks is pleasantly reminiscent of a time when \"guitars + electronics\" was not manifest destiny for every young rock band with Fruity Loops and an Aphex Twin album. The slow, cartoonish beats are the programming equivalent of Thompsons' guitar playing: simple, posed amateurism. The songs, at their best, are droney and nervous \"Vile Vile Grass\" and \"Mother\" and, at their worst, tuneless and misshapen \"Bad Medicine\" and \"There There Betty Betty\".  The album's final suite, \"In My Baby's Ruth/ Freeform Freakout 4\" is the type of posteverything thrum that Thompson has always excelled at: absurdist lyrics, barely recognizable postrock guitar phrases, a legion of potbangers gathered around him, a cloistered lovein that would get you booted from all but the most accepting hippie communes. O'Rourke almost makes it work. As such, Fingerpointing suggests a subtle massaging of Red Krayola's mixed nearhistory but little else for anyone not already deeply invested in Thompson's particular brand of madhattery. "}