{"label":" AGSFB Music","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12506/homepage_large.dbde9c85.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"All Girl Summer Fun Band","title":"Looking Into It","text":" Looking Into It, the third fulllength from Portland's All Girl Summer Fun Band, makes me miss the 1990s. I miss that era of unabashedly rocking women. I miss being inspired by those who banded together with other girls to prove that shrieking or shredding wasn't just the provenance of those with a Y chromosome. Mostly I miss that time when it felt like you didn't have to choose between being girly or gutteral, cutesy or combative. Don't get me wrong, it's not that those of the socalled gentler sex aren't making music anymore, it's that, primarily, they are doing so as melismatic divas, sexkitten pop stars, solo folk artists, or frontwomen in a boysclub band all of which is fine, but nothing beats seeing a bunch of chicks with scruffy guitars, primitive beats, and catchyasallhell melodies throttle through threeminute ditties without worrying about being ladylike, seductive, or serious. And with their new disc, All Girl Summer Fun Band have made me forget how long it's been since I'd heard such an act. Though it has been five years since their last outing, AGSFB haven't changed much (save the loss of one member), which is strangely comforting. The nowtrio the Thermals' Kathy Foster, former Softie Jen Sbragia, and Kim Baxter, who recorded and engineered this album is a musical democracy with each member contributing vocals, pitching in with the songwriting, and switching off instruments. Looking Into It isn't doing anything new it's another round of sugary girlgroup harmonies layered over fuzzy punk basslines and lofi guitar riffs but its insistent, often cuddly pop is more sophisticated than these Girls' previous offerings. \"Woo\"heavy album opener \"Not the One for Me\" sounds like the infectiously sweet and sassy songs by the faux band in the movie Josie and the Pussycats (that's no dis; Babyface wrote those!). And tracks like \"Trajectory\" and \"Oh No\" blend 1960s bubblegum melodies with delightfully sloppy doityourself execution, adding edge to their sweetness while bleeding their punk influences of anything remotely aggressive. With their gushy enthusiasm and chipper Lush vocals, AGSFB are at their best when blowing through their songs with freighttrain velocity, bouncing along with their plucky bass throb and joyously wild drumming (as on \"Everything I Need\"). But keeping the album from being a onenote collection, their slower tracks \"Rewind\", Sbragia's ode to her deceased brother, and \"Lost\", a dreamy, midtempo gem with an acoustic foundation show off compositional maturity and dynamic diversity. And record closer \"This Will Never End\", which opens with a callandresponse section of stingingly harmonized \"ah\"s and the album's most incendiary (and surprisingly krautrockinspired) riffs, shows off Baxter's steely guitar chops, reminding listeners that while AGSFB is often purposely messy, its three members can put on their virtuoso faces when necessary. Despite my own nostalgia for the riot grrrl days, what I love most about Looking Into It is that it isn't pushing an agenda. AGSFB are just three women who want to rock out and not make a big deal about it. Their band name says it all: All Girl Summer Fun Band are proud to be a kickass allfemale trio, but their main objective isn't to explore gender politics, it's just to have a sunny good time. "}