{"label":" World's Fair","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12525/homepage_large.5a5cf7b5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Apollo Sunshine","title":"Shall Noise Upon","text":" In the age of the mp3, you have to like a band that respects your attention span and ability to sit through a 38minute album, giving you something that works as a whole beyond its considerable highlights. Apollo Sunshine does that on their third LP, turning out an eclectic and thoughtfully sequenced running order that runs the gamut from pastoral folk to distortedeverything bluespunk to Latintinged indie pop to orchestral interludes. It's indie rock that wants to be and is a dozen things at once, and the band members have the songs to make it work.Jeremy Black, Sam Cohen, and Jesse Gallagher first started the band in Boston, but have since done most of their recording in the Catskills, including a bit of work for this record at Dave Fridmann's Tarbox Studios. The members swap instruments in the studio, trade off vocals, and generally record in a communal spirit, a feeling augmented by coproducer Quentin Stoltzfus and a small army of guest musicians, who help give the album its widely varied sonic stamp. One of the album's most stunning sequences is the run from \"Happiness\" through \"Money\", right in the middle. \"Happiness\" is an orchestral instrumental full of Beatlesque cello and rich woodwinds, \"We Are Born When We Die\" is an r&b track sucked into an icy black hole of doom, \"The Funky Chamberlain (Who Begot Who)\" brings the r&b to the fore with a funky beat, Rhodes piano and a long, syncopated melody, and \"Money\" is an acoustic folk fantasy about the disappearance of currency.The band sells all of those things skillfully, and there are other standout tracks scattered throughout the album. \"Fog and Shadow\" is a lazy campfire singalong, while \"Singing to the Earth (To Thank Her for You)\" recalls one of the Ira Kaplansung songs from a Yo La Tengo album. They share Yo La Tengo's fondness for mixing shy, retiring indie pop with moments of earblistering noise, which you get a bit of during the backwards guitar outburst of \"666: The Coming of the New World Government\", a song that feels a bit like a 21st century update of George Harrison's \"It's All Too Much\". Then there's \"Honestly\", a song that sounds preposterous on paper but is actually fantastic. It has a stomping Phil Spector bass drum driving it, but it's surrounded by Latin percussion and a Mexicaninfluenced horn arrangement. The band's close harmonies cut from Spanish to English, and the flute in the background sounds alternately like it got lost from an English folk song or an English prog rock album. Dig the ultrabrief slide guitar solo, too.Apollo Sunshine have been driving at this sound since the beginning, and this album represents a certain maturation of their ability to construct a record. Don't read mature to mean dry or dull, though this is still exuberant music that celebrates its sudden shifts in direction. Shall Noise Upon is a great record, and an impossible one to digest in just one sitting. That's hardly a problem, though, because coming back to it is so rewarding. "}