{"label":" Century Media","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12526/homepage_large.626df9ac.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Krisiun","title":"Southern Storm","text":" The most \"metal\" metal show I've ever attended was Krisiun. Other death metal heavies were on the bill, but Krisiun blew them away. Three Brazilian brothers drummer Max and guitarist Moyses Kolesne and and bassist/vocalist Alex Camargo, who kept his mother's surname plugged into basic amp setups, then proceeded to destroy. Moyses' hands were blurs: tremolo picking, pinch harmonics, arpeggios flying up and down like brushstrokes. Electricity, hair, and light lashed the air. Volleys of riffs streamed from the brothers in unison; growls seemingly came not from Camargo but from Satan.Krisiun have had mixed success committing this energy to tape. Partially to blame are varying production values over the band's 18year existence. (2004's Bloodshed comes closest to capturing the band's feral live sound.) Also, music based on pure force often doesn't translate well to record. (Minor Threat's Complete Discography and Slayer's Reign in Blood are notable exceptions.) Krisiun are not an especially deep band. Their power trio format doesn't allow for lush, layered compositions. Their ESL lyrics stick to metal's usual themes antireligion, mythology, apocalyptic visions. As the band said in a recent interview with about.com, \"We are death metal to death, Krisiun never wimps out, we're always fast, brutal and true.\" In other words, the sound is the message.But what a sound it is! Critics of Krisiun mostly cite their relentlessness. It can be a boon; live, the band resembles a euphonious jackhammer, and its first fulllength, 1995's Black Force Domain, suggests Kreator on a binge of speed and guitar lessons. However, the relentlessness can get monotonous. Over the years, Krisiun have put more space into their songs, which has ironically made them more brutal. Now their signature is precise machinegun riffs punctuated by short pauses. The sound is martial; Max Kolesne's playing often resembles drum rudiments on steroids.2006's AssassiNation featured surprisingly catchy songs and steely production, both of which Southern Storm pumps up further. The sound is imposingly massive, though the stereo onslaught is strange for a trio. Still, studio polish adds atmosphere to the aggression. While Krisiun's ingredients haven't changed, they're more spaced out than ever. \"Slaying Steel\" alternates bursts of tritones with unaccompanied ride cymbals; such nakedness lends unpredictability to a band not known for subtlety. Max Kolesne has become a much more supple drummer. In \"Minotaur\", he deftly switches beats underneath an otherwise relentless riff. \"Sons of Pest\" downshifts into a midpaced march that's almost groovy, then leaps into insistent syncopations, rolls, and a whirling dervish of a solo by Moyses.The guitarist's performance is disciplined but virtuosic. His solo in \"Slaying Steel\" pours forth like molten lava. In \"Sentenced Morning\", he unleashes twisting runs that seemingly intertwine like DNA strands. \"Bleeding Offers\" has brief but incendiary blues licks. Sawtoothed arpeggios cut through \"Origin of Terror\", leading to a torrentially fluid solo and a hail of blastbeats. \"Massacre Under the Sun\" closes with a flurry of Bucketheadesque whole tones, screaming pinch harmonics, and ripping shredding. This tour de force is, quite simply, the state of the art in metal.Southern Storm's only misstep is a straight read of \"Refuse/Resist\", by compatriots Sepultura. The cover isn't bad, but it's unnecessary. Sepultura long ago ceded their title of Brazil's top metal band to Krisiun. Lacking two crucial founding members and living off their back catalogue, Sepultura have passed their expiration date. Krisiun, on the other hand, only improve with time. Unlike Sepultura's exploitation of numetal and native Brazilian sounds, Krisiun remain unalloyed \"fast, brutal, and true.\" "}