{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12527/homepage_large.61cc817a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Growing","title":"All the Way","text":" I once claimed Growing were the most misleadingly named band this side of Death Cab for Cutie besides shrinking from a trio to a duo, had these BrooklynbywayofOlympia dronerockers ever actually evolved? A colleague called me out on this, and he was right. I fished out a copy of Growing's 2003 album The Sky's Run Into the Sea, and was reminded of how far they've come, through diverse incarnations of ambient, noise, and dronebased music, to achieve the mature style that had erased their earlier works from my memory. \"Cutting, Opening, Swimming\" hinted at the colorsaturated walls of sound with which they're now synonymous, but was light on subterranean motion, and elsewhere, they tinkered with smaller, more rickety bobbins and more indeterminate structures than you'll find in their current output.Maybe my error was somewhat understandable. All the Way concludes a conceptual arc that spans three albums (four, if you count the Lateral EP), beginning with 2006's notatall misleadingly titled Color Wheel. If newer Growing made me forget about older Growing, that speaks to the obliterative power of their recent music. These three albums are superficially monolithic enough that they could have emanated from the same recording session. Growing found their spirit animal their gaudy, squirming compositions always make me think of some psychedelic caterpillar and rode off into a tiedyed sky. Armed with guitar, bass, loop station, Ebow, and sundry effects boxes, they erected garish bulwarks of hotwired glitch, with towering major chords jutting out like flying buttresses, and long, tense loops sliding in and out of phase.And even within this monolithic trilogy, All the Way distinguishes itself: Never before has Growing so prominently emphasized stomping melody and kinetic rhythm. They're this close to being a rock band while still sounding like their weird selves, which makes this their most accessible album to date. They way they blend the haywire and the anthemic often sounds like Black Dice trying to be Ratatat. \"Green Flag\" sprays a guitar line across the stereo channels in choppy flecks I'm not sure about the hardware involved, but you could achieve a reasonable facsimile with a cheap Boss sampler's \"slicer\" effect and pads them with intestinal gurgles and whizzes (the intestine is another inescapable metaphor for Growing's music, which always conveys a feeling of linear, peristaltic motion). The shimmering, filterswept \"Wrong Ride\" is a beatless approximation of funk; \"Innit\" performs the same alchemical transformation on beveled Eurosynth techno. \"Rave Pie Only\" makes processed guitars act like metronomic percussion, marking time for the damaged lead and climactic raygun battle. Throughout it all, a formerly suppressed thrum percolates right on the surface, making this cruising music for Brian Eno fans no mean feat for a band that, like many others in their milieu, began as sculptors of wisps and vapors before hitting their thunderous stride. "}