{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12530/homepage_large.62264262.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Golden Smog","title":"Stay Golden, Smog: The Best of Golden Smog - The Rykodisc Years","text":" Golden Smog couldn't be just a covers band in the 1990s, not with that lineup: Gary Louris and Marc Perlman from the Jayhawks, whose Hollywood Town Hall was a benchmark in early90s roots rock; Dan Murphy of Soul Asylum, who used to be kind of a big deal; Kraig Johnson of Run Westy Run, whose CD I almost bought back in 1995 but didn't; Chris Mars of the Replacements, members of which band should all be bronzed; and Jeff Tweedy of some obscure Chicago outfit. Obviously, any attempts to portray the band as anything but the equivalent of a pickup game of basketball were going to be as futile as their attempts to distance themselves from the altcountry label. In that small realm, despite their best efforts to keep it all lowkey such as those Porn Name Game aliases in the CD credits (first name=your middle name, surname=street you grew up on, etc.) Golden Smog were doomed to be a supergroup.But all they really wanted to do was goof off and play good ol' Midwestern rock'n'roll. Or at least that's the impression given by Stay Golden, Smog, a bestof culling from their years at Rykodisc in other words, from the 90s. From 1992, when the band released a covers EP called On Golden Smog, through 1995, when they released their debut fulllength, Down By the Old Mainstream, Golden Smog were just as representative of certain musical movements as the New Pornographers were earlier in this decade. In 2008, however, it's pretty astounding that the altcountry tag haunted them so persistently. Like their tributary bands, they sounded less like guys raised on the Carter Family and Johnny Cash and more like boys still enthralled with 70s classic rock radio and the muscle cars that blasted those hits.The songs on Stay Golden are much more modest than \"Takin' Care of Business\" or \"Even the Losers\". In fact, at times these songs sound fairly predictable, making room in the backseat for tepid guitar solos, jangly guitar riffs, and lyrics about girls with \"troubled mind(s) and starcrossed eyes\" (which seems to be Louris' evergreen theme). And you didn't have to looks beyond the members' rentpaying bands to find better versions of some of these tracks. Murphy's \"Ill Fated\" sounds like a postGrave Dancer's Union Soul Asylum outtake, while Louris' \"Jennifer Save Me\" could have been a lesser number on any of the Jayhawks' postMark Olson albums. Johnson's \"He's a Dick\" is a oneplayonly goof that might have been better as one of many bonus tracks on a future reissue of Mainstream.Of course, some tracks bear the fruit of this culthistoric collaboration. Opener \"Until You Came Along\" and \"V\" are two of Louris' catchiest compositions, the former ending with a barroom singalong that's so happy it's sad. The bonus 1997 version of the song, however, trades that coda in for some fiddling and whistling that lose that sense of momentousness. Similarly, Tweedy's contributions \"Lost Love\", \"Radio King\", and the Brian Wilson cover \"Love and Mercy\", which is exclusive to this comp make you wish he were fronting a modest bar band again, and \"Please Tell My Brother\" ranks among his best songs. It's just Tweedy and a guitar, singing about traveling the road and missing his family, but it's effective in its simplicity, recalling his work with Billy Bragg on the Mermaid Avenue material.As much as they disliked the tag altcountry, Golden Smog reflected a gradual change in that genre, a growing rebellion against the strictures of roots music. In the late 90s and early 00s, the bands affiliated with Golden Smog, along with genre mainstays like the Old 97s and Joe Henry, went pop, either discovering the joys of the Beach Boys or simply opening up their sounds to newer styles. Golden Smog's final album for Rykodisc, 1998's Weird Tales, departed most significantly from their established classic rock sound, as if they had accepted obscurity as their likely fate and embraced Big Star as their patron saint. That history is lost on Stay Golden, which culls the most conservative material from Weird Tales: \"Looking Forward to Seeing You\" and \"Making Waves\" rather than the funkrock excursion \"Keys\" or the reverby \"All the Same to Me\". As a product, Stay Golden is not only redundant (gathering material primarily from just two readily available releases), but also misleading, painting the band as stuckinthemud roots rockers when in fact they did try to become something a bit different not a supergroup necessarily, but simply a band independent from its day jobs and with its own musical mission. "}