{"label":" Arena Rock","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12540/homepage_large.cc4a65e1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Robbie Mackey","artist":"Talkdemonic","title":"Eyes at Half Mast","text":" A long time ago, Kevin O'Connor made the mistake of calling his band \"folktronic hop.\" Accurate or not, the hammy moniker has followed Talkdemonic around ever since, and a cursory Google search proves that, for better or worse, the clunker has been adopted only by him. But as tacky as it sounds now, the tag sort of made its own kind of sense on O'Connor's initial bow as Talkdemonic, 2005's Mutiny Sunshine. On that album, the recently transplanted Portlandite was attempting to reconcile his love of instrumental hiphop, electronic music, and postrock by meshing synths and roomy drumming with all stripes of stringed instruments banjo, classical guitar, viola, and so forth. It was an occasionally inspired, if often clumsy, hybrid. That same tentative sound would crystallize into something much more cohesive after O'Connor called on parttime collaborator Lisa Molinaro for 2006's Beat Romantic. With attempt two, O'Connor didn't shove the sounds together so much as find common ground from which they could all shine. Panoramawide drums supported Molinaro's hearty builds of stringed elegance, and craggy synth bass notes manned the low end while banjos rustled and skipped above. It worked surprisingly well, as each element sort of minded its own business on the way to a handful of genuinely engaging moments.  But on Talkdemonic's third stab, Eyes at Half Mast, the novelty seems to be thining, and O'Connor and Molinaro finally sound limited by their tools. After all, how many times are we expected to be surprised by a synth underpinning a banjo? By Half Mast's count, six? Maybe seven? Certainly, after all these years, the duo knows how to coax pretty sounds from its instruments. They do it repeatedly here, at least early on. The first four tracks on the album are a seamlessly executed stretch, showcasing the sort of balance that propped up Romantic so well. And Molinaro's layered viola lines are alternatingly regal and melancholic. But as charming as \"Ending the Orange Glow\" is, with its skidding synth and fingerpicking stomp atop a marching drum rudiment, it still doesn't compare to Beatstandout \"Dusty Fluorescent/Wooden Shelves\", which already perfected the very same formula. Indeed, save for the Jetsons streamers and banjo tickling of \"Shattered Into Dyes\", or the big \"oh, ah\" soothsaying of \"March Movement\", Talkdemonic's \"folktronic hop\" now just seems like a collection of disparate influences. Four Tet's Pause here. Fridge's Happiness there, Yann Tiersen's squeezebox, and banjo all over the place. "}