{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12538/homepage_large.61cf1453.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Prints","title":"Just Thoughts","text":" Ah, good old Temporary Residence Limited and their catalog of strangely reserved, and often wordless, works of highish quality that never seem to be aiming for giddy stratospheres (well, except for some of Mono's operatic guitar spires). The duo Prints are a perfect fit, and not just because multiinstrumentalist Kenseth Thibideau is a veteran of four other TRL acts. Their selftitled debut fulllength boasted subdued production, likewhatever lyrics, and a general sense that the project was a leisurely outlet for two talented guys who didn't need anything from it. Listeners in a mode of endless intake might welcome such a breezy ethic, but those laboring to achieve more spartan hard drives probably took a pass, waiting until Prints squirt out something that plays like it just had to be born.This new EP builds eversoslightly on one angle of the debut, which fused boogieless aspects of dance music with polite hints of psych. Much of it seemed to crave sounding allovertheplace, but settled for the mild outskirts of starchy Tropicália. The album closer \"End\", though, added to the influenceporridge elements that suggested M83 trying to outswath a Trans Am coming after them with a cutting board. Just Thoughts mostly continues to mine this stilted, softhitting electronic vein. Less lingering is the suspicion that the tracks are showcases for musical chops whose authors didn't know or care whether they were making actual songs or, you know, \"pieces.\"The title kinda implicates the intentionally tossedoff lyrics, even though the phrase \"just thoughts\" actually appears during a passage worried about the brain's relentless presence. Stoner advice is the default here, with over twenty fizzy imperatives (\"taste the color,\" etc.) coming in the first three tunes' twelveminute span, climaxing in an answering machine message about tree sentience from Elizabeth Teebee'eh and the redeundant truism \"what we make is made.\" Mindclearing to the point of droolfarming.Enter DFA's Tim Goldsworthy and !!!'s Tyler Pope, cohosting a combined remix of two alreadylinked tracks from the longplayer. Despite retaining the original Weencaliber words (\"There's a pretty tick/ Sucking your blood and shit\") it's ingratiatingly layered/sequenced, and even dismisses itself elegantly, full of life but never violating Prints' apparent policy of only allowing wouldbe bangers to percolate. Which is why their new music can come off elsewhere like stately Of Montreal reworks by Steely Dan, elevator MGMT, or worse, like the inevitable (after the recooling of Vangelis and Balearic textures) indie peekaboo into the soulpatched chillout lounge. "}