{"label":" Century Media","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12550/homepage_large.6020aa59.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Intronaut","title":"Prehistoricisms","text":" Intronaut is one of the most oblique bands in metal, a genre that doesn't normally reward obliqueness. The band is often compared to Neurosis and Isis, who also cultivate inscrutability. Yet concrete concerns emerge from Neurosis (the elements) and Isis (water, surveillance). Intronaut, on the other hand, are almost opaque. That's not just because of their lyrics, which are willfully abstract, and which were omitted altogether from the liner notes of Prehistoricisms. With a sound that's only moderately aggressive, the band doesn't reduce to \"victory,\" \"apocalypse,\" \"rebellion,\" \"catharsis,\" or other traditional metal themes. Intronaut's appeal is, for the most part, instrumental.  Virtuosity is aplenty in metal, but few metal bands have jazz fusion chops. The cultures don't align; metal is usually rigid, while fusion privileges improvisation. A few precedents exist for Intronaut's metal/fusion hybrid, like Cynic and Coprofago. But none have integrated these elements as organically as Intronaut, and with such restraint. Solos are rare; Joe Lester's bass is the most mobile instrument, while the guitarists mainly stick with chords and textures. Drummer Danny Walker is astoundingly dexterous, with agile fills, incisive cymbals, and power to spare. (He also moonlights in grindcore band Phobia.) On top are Sacha Dunable's yells, whose patterns resemble Neurosis', but are less expressive.  New guitarist Dave Timnick, who played as a drummer with Lester in nonmetal projects, adds flexibility to an already limber lineup. (His predecessor Leon del Muerte was more grindcoreoriented.)  These are Intronaut's most adventurous songs to date. \"Prehistoricisms\" pits sheets of noise against playful bass pokings, then slams into searingly emotional chords. \"The Literal Black Cloud\" stretches one of Intronaut's fortes, a footdragging lurch that evokes spinning wheels in mud, into a delightful tapestry of counterpoint. \"Any Port\" is magnificently anthemic, closing with a thrilling tribal percussion jam. \"The Reptilian Brain\" opens with traditional Indian noodlings, complete with tabla (Lester is trained in Indian music), then drops into a shifting landscape of prog odd meters, pensive fusion, and trenchant metal. These departures place the metal sections in sharper relief; Intronaut have possibly the greatest command of dynamics of any metal band.  Unfortunately, the recording doesn't capture that. It's technically perfect; the instruments are clearly defined, with good separation between them. But the production is better suited for power metal. The drums are overcompressed, turning Walker's crisp work into thuds. As a result, the record feels flat, lacking peaks and valleys. Such production is typical in metal today, and it's not fatal in an age of iPod headphones and dubious MP3 bitrates. But to hear these songs as they should be heard, see Intronaut live. It's a deep, mysterious, and often moving experience. "}