{"label":" Death From Abroad","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12564/homepage_large.8ed3b4fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nobody Knows Anything: DFA Presents Supersoul Recordings","text":" Supersoul is a Berlinbased label that's been releasing dance tracks on vinyl and via the internet for a couple of years; it's run by Xaver Naudascher, who has a hand in almost every song on this 2xCD retrospective, either as producer or editor. The label favors modish, retro electronic sounds squelchy old analog synths, togetherinelectricdreams sequencers, slightly offkilter live drums or the fake handclaps of ancient, dusty chips. This music's native format is the 12\", and it's meant for mixing rather than athome listening, which means it sounds great under two conditions: At very high volumes, and in small doses.  But this isn't a mix: It's a twohourplus sequence of long pieces whose entire content can mostly be extrapolated from their first minute or so. The bulk of them are instrumentals, and the vocals in the rest are strictly pro forma. (Plastique de Rev gets some cheerleaders to chant \"Resist! Resist! We know you are pissed!\"; Rosalind does a weaktea Björk impression on the fourth installment of Mogg & Naudascher's \"Moon Unit\" series.) If you listen to it as an album, it doles out its rewards stingily. Every five or 10 minutes, you get a tiny little hook, like the threenote digital whine that anchors Strangelets' \"Riot on Planet 10\" in both the versions included here.  There's a reasonable amount of formal variety on Nobody Knows Anything track by track, it shifts from convincing Italodisco emulation to convincing electro emulation to convincing acid house emulationbut it's really most fun heard a single track at a time. The best piece here, Naudascher's \"Motor City\", seems to be so called because it borrows its central synth tone from Kevin Saunderson's old Detroit techno records; Naudascher's witty variation on the formula is cramming it endtoend with showy drum fills that wander around the stereo field. If it had appeared on a compilation with neon smiley faces on its sleeve in 1989, DJs would get credibility points for pulling it out now.  The selling point for a lot of Nobody Knows Anything's potential American audience is the DFA imprimatur (it's actually on the sublabel Death From Abroad), but this is the only significant stumble in that fine label's discography so far. Virtually everything here is a solid, nostalgic genre exercise: It sounds good because it sounds just like the kind of electronic records they don't make any more. But not one of these tracks lingers as a composition or upends the assumptions of a genre the way DFA singles from \"Beat Connection\" to \"Happy House\" have in the past. This is exactly the kind of dance music DFA once looked like it was meant to rescue us from: Unimpeachable but totally inbred, made for listeners who know exactly what electronic subgenres they like but can't name any artists working in them, bounded by the history of electronic dance music but never reaching beyond it. "}