{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12553/homepage_large.fa151246.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Serena-Maneesh","title":"SM Backwards","text":" Unless you regularly scour obscure Norwegian record labels, chances are SerenaManeesh's 2005 selftitled debut a hulking spin on Loveless came out of nowhere. The group returned to Scandinavia so quickly the internets didn't even have time to forge a formidable backlash, but here to assure us they weren't a figment of our imaginations, SM Backwards compiles SM material from 1999 to 2003, offering up candid snapshots of a band that's otherwise been full of mystique. Backwards' two discs draw from two main sources, 2002's Fixxations EP and 2005's Zurück EP, making this less an odds'n'sods collection and more a rerelease, complete with lots of remixes and alternate cuts. As evidenced by SM's cataclysmic debut, frontman and songwriter Emil Nikolaisen draws from a vast palette, and the meandering quality of this early material attests to how carefully crafted their perfectly stormy debut was. Fixxations, the band's debut EP and Disc One here, harnesses this energy into the most accessible block of tunes SM's released to date. On \"Drive Me Home The Lonely Nights\", Nikolaisen finds the perfect marriage between pet influences like the Velvets, MBV, and contemporaries like close friend Sufjan Stevens. Gritty psychrockers \"Blues Like Beehive\" and \"Hear/Bleed Phil Harmonic\" are less elegant, their droning riffs less subtle and the vocals a tad too cool for their own good in an Anton Newcombe way. Disc Two blasts off into more challenging territory. Culled from very early recordings, Nikolaisen clearly overcompensates in the transition from his bareboned 90s punk band Silver to SM's more cerebral style. There's an incredibly sparse track, barely more than a field recording, called \"Introspection\" that, well, is made to introspect to. The surf guitar on \"Degenerate\" initially pops like a Devo cut before it becomes clear the song refuses to move off that same note for its threeminute duration. Out of context, that sure sounds annoying, but when considering the similarly stubborn monotone of later SM songs like \"Candlelighted\", it's clear this early cut was a punching bag of sorts, allowing Nikolaisen to summon far more potent knockout blows in the future. The real diamonds in the rough, however, lie in subtly beautiful psuedoballads like \"Leipziger Love\" and especially closer \"Never\". While Boris could probably outdrone and outmuscle SM and Deerhunter's got them beat on the threeminute shoegaze front, few bands today write five minuteplus songs that are simultaneously this mucky and this saccharine. Nikolaisen creates chaos around his sister Hilma's vocals without sacrificing any hooks or continuity, and the group always finds new ways to build tension without simply getting louder or packing on more sound effects. Oh yeah, and about those remixes...um, it seems the band needed to clear disk space on their hard drives and threw them on to round out the doubledisc release. The \"Noise Miami Mix\" of \"Drive Me Home...\" takes several listens to notice the nuances it slipped into the original, and other bonus tracks, like the Grandsport mix of \"Oxygen, Please!\", are little more than remasterings. At least the reimaginings of \"Sehnsucht/Drag Me Upstairs\" and \"Leipziger Love\" serve well to emphasize SM's true strength. Essentially tacking on a few extra minutes of spooky reverb and guitar squalls, these particular remixes try to rough up what's already a perfect pop song with a blackeye. Despite some of the growing pains here, Backwards strongly hints at the sadistic beauticians SM would be introduced to us as in their debut, and bravely reveals the types of psych/shoegaze pitfalls they'd later learn to avoid. "}