{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12562/homepage_large.2dfc1f9c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Rafter","title":"Sweaty Magic","text":" If it weren't for Rafter Roberts' close personal ties to Asthmatic Kitty's artists (he's engineered albums for Sufjan Stevens and Castanets), he'd probably be an odd fit on the imprint. His noiseinflected collagepop is a far cry from the sadeyed new folk of many of his labelmates. Then again, the producer/jingle maker/experimenter seems so unselfconscious, so committed to the notion of musicasfun, he could probably fit in almost anywhere. His songs brief, genredefiant explosions wrapped in tight melodies reflect a similar feeling of brazen enjoyment and abandon.On this year's Sex Death Cassette, Rafter used an anythinggoes approach to burn through material. Stirring together Caribbean, funk, and classic indie rock elements together at a breakneck pace, its 19 tracks clocked in at just 35 minutes. Sex Death Cassette was a blast, and has been rightly commended for injecting some lightheartedness into indie rock. But at such high velocities, it was hard to get a grasp of Rafter the artist, whether there was more to him than captivatingly produced funpop. His Sweaty Magic  EP a much more groovefocused affair than Cassette doesn't clear any of that up. He's not interested in revealing more of himself. Rafter simply wants you to boogie. And have sex.And on a placeholder EP, that's okay by me. So Sweaty Magic takes its cues from Beck in Midnite Vultures mode, Chromeo, and other campy, libidinous dance acts, and is purely a blithe (and unabashed) party record. It lacks any consistent narrative thread; its songs jut into one another at random, and its lyrics (e.g. \"Salt\"'s vague, repeated instruction to \"Put some salt on it.\" Um, on what?) are often unclear. It's also kind of awesome.Part of what makes the record work is Rafter's commitment to form Sweaty Magic rarely veers from its wacky, Zapp & RogermeetsPrince vibe. Songs ooze with sleazy sensuality: \"Sassy\" flips a Quincy Jonesproduced Michael Jackson number inside out, putting distorted synths, boombap drums, and heavy bass upfront to let its funky guitars do the dirty talking. On \"Sweat\", Rafter sets his clean vocal harmonies atop cowbell percussion and a GFunk era beat for hilarious, smoothedout effect. \"Magic\", meanwhile, aims directly for the club. Its clattering beats and madcap synths ride a propulsive rhythm that fulfills his goal of shameless danceability.At the core of these retroinspired dance tracks, though, is devotion to melody and structure. This is why Rafter can get away with what some might call cheesiness. He's jettisoned the lofi patches of fuzz that ran throughout Cassette, and this EP is cleaner and sharper because of it. Even on \"Noise\", the album's most atonal track, he complements the jagged verses with tunefulness a catchy guitar riff swoops in just before things become grating. \"Juicy\", the closest thing to a ballad, also showcases Rafter's capable production. Built above an acoustic guitar loop, squelching keys, and vocoder sections, the song remains crisp and potent despite its divergent instrumentation. Because of its multifarious song types leftfield club thumpers, futuristic sex ditties, and funky space jams some will contend that Sweaty Magic lacks cohesion, that it's too ADD to be listenable, but I would argue that is precisely Rafter's point. Like Gregg Gillis' Girl Talk project, Rafter here is the opposite of a serious artist, aiming only to create something that is immediate and sexy, and Sweaty Magic's erratic quality simply mirrors our own popdrenched culture of endless options. "}