{"label":" Unfamiliar","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12572/homepage_large.5b4ca436.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Clips","title":"Matterhorn","text":" Most of what I know about Vancouver comes from reading Douglas Coupland essays and novels, but I have to say it sounds like a very cool place, somewhere I'd visit if I had the time and money. I'm not sure if it's just my mind playing tricks on me, but the Clips, a keyboarddominated quintet who hail from Vancouver, really sound like the image I have of their hometown. What I picture is a city hemmed to the sea by treecovered mountains, linked to a pristine island by an impressive bridge sort an intersection of sleek modernity and oldschool nature. And I get that in this band's music, where the buzz and glide of electronic keyboards and reverbdrenched piano stacks up against raw, unrefined drums, crunchy bass, and long strands of guitar.Even if that only makes sense in my own head, the band's basic powertrioplustwokeyboardists setup is easy enough to understand. Their range is mostly rhythmic they go from fast songs with choppy drums to slow songs with choppy drums and back again but it's an interesting enough sound to fill an album, even if a few of the nine songs are overlong. It's hard to imagine from the start that they haven't been listening to a fair amount of Radiohead. \"Wire\" definitely feels like a postKid A song, with a calm electric piano playing an unresolved chord sequence that's even more unsettled by the frenetic drumming of Jeremy Gruman. Edo Van Breeman's vocals adhere to the voiceasinstrument school of singing, and the song is a solid, if lengthy, introduction to the band.I imagine listeners to this band will be divided as to whether they're at their best working contrasting textures over a slow beat or in their more immediately accessible dancerock mode. Both have their moments. Van Breeman's best vocal undoubtedly comes on the slow but persistent \"Eyesuck\", where he trades hooks with the guitar and ventures near a falsetto. The song veers off on two consecutive instrumental tangents, one geared for dancing, the second for coming down. The album flips conventional sequencing wisdom and ends with two of its danciest tracks, the buzzedout instrumental \"2nd Hand Deal\", which launches itself from a sharp keyboard/bass riff into splatter disco passages where most of the instruments run into the red, and \"Kassel\", a strong song that nicely pays off the buildup in its verses with a rocketing keyboard riff.\"Kassel\" is the song that best crystallizes the band's talent, matching a strongly written, wellsung vocal verse against exciting and unpredictable instrumental passages. The band bogs down a bit in the middle of the album, with a string of four songs that are each only half successful. For instance, the march experiment \"Missing the Plan\" has interesting rhythmic ideas and a nice guitar solo, but the melody is basically flat and the song doesn't go anywhere even as it intentionally moves through differently arranged sections. Imperfect though it may be, Matterhorn's handful of takeaway songs make for a promising and enjoyable debut. "}