{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1218/homepage_large.abc7ed83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Shelley","artist":"John Cale","title":"HoboSapiens","text":" HoboSapiens answers the \"whatever happened to\" questions of both dorm room denizens peeling the banana for the first time and John Cale lifers who finally threw in the towel for good with the release of 1996's bloated, overproduced \"pop\" album, Walking on Locusts. Cale's been biding his time, of course, obsessively studying the umbrellastrawed, shavedice recordings coming out of the current London dancemusic scene, and gearing up for his own grand reentrance into the 21st Century. Produced by Lemon Jelly's Nick Franglen (Björk, Primal Scream, Pulp), HoboSapiens finds Cale, at 61, back in the major leagues (on EMI) and undeniably reenergized by his newfound musical palette, marrying his downanddirgey muse to music that's buzzy, dense and eclectic. On his own website, Cale talks about his recent appreciation for Beck and The Beta Band, and the influence of the latter, presumably, is evident on the sexy, summertime acoustic pop track \"Things\", by far the album's catchiest song. Of course, the lyrics remain as dour and abstruse as ever, but, for better or worse, this time he's not weeping them out alone at the piano. The opening lines of the first song, \"Zen\", a grim manifesto delivered de facto in Cale's ageless and immutable brood, offer a thematic crib sheet for the entire record: \"It's midnight/ And our silvertongued obsessions come at us out of the dark.\" Pretty sonic landscapes whiz by as you cruise through the album: strangely outoftune bells, sumptuous string sections, lachrymose violas, impossibly resonant keyboards, treated voices, whole choirs. Odd drum samples and stray bits of postindustrial electronic noise provide the pervasive background radiation which adds an air of doomandgloom to even the most airy, melodic songs. About half of it works reasonably well, though the end result is somehow closer to Lowera Bowie or Eno's Taking Tiger Mountain than anything truly contemporary or avantgarde. There really is only one cringeworthy track, \"Twilight Zone\", which finds Cale yowling and haranguing over \"beats\" so ostentatiously \"triphoppy\" that you feel embarrassed to listen, like your dad had wandered drunkenly into your karaoke party and insisted on taking a turn at the mic. (And that's overlooking the dogtiredness of the song's title conceit.) If your trendometer has jumped into the red, that's not a malfunction. But Cale's perverse and singular worldview, and the effortless authority with which he dispenses his overwhelming musicality, spare him from the worstcase scenarios one may associate with aging rock legends who seek to revitalize their careers by hooking up with younger hotshot producers. The good news is, it still sounds like a John Cale album. But the fullon returntoform that some critics have been trumpeting is mostly just wishful thinking: they're simply overjoyed to have Cale awake and fully alert again. And if nothing else, it's a step in the right direction. Just for fun, I'll lay down a few dollars that say his next album's the one they've been waiting for. "}