{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12573/homepage_large.7db29c82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Murs","title":"Murs for President","text":" Mainstream hiphop has little time for ordinary dudes. It works inversely to the right wing's O'Reillyspearheaded, Palinnominating fauxpopulism: Heads don't want candidates just like them, antielite, downtoearth, and on your level. They want linguistically supernatural battlers, colossal egos with something to prove and plenty to back it up with, longstriding titans who own a dozen of something you'll never even be let into the dealership to look at. L.A. underground stalwart Murs doesn't really fit under any of these categories: He's subtly smart instead of lookatme clever, cocky enough to stand his ground but humble enough to admit his faults and frustrations, expressing himself with an eccentric persona that has no time for thuggish swagger or conspicuous consumption (unless his action figure collection counts). On an indie, that might make you another voice striving to be heard above a crowd; on a major it makes you some kind of bizarre anomaly.That's why Murs for President is such a weird album to listen to in a strictly critical sense, where it stands as a moreorless average release albeit in a year when being average means you stand a good chance at releasing one of the better rap records of the last couple of months. You could place some share of the blame on the whole platinumbid majorlabel nature of the album, where Murs' unpretentious style is undercut by commercial concerns, complete with one of those will.i.am obvioussample productions (Al Hirt's \"Green Hornet\" theme on \"Lookin' Fly\") and a phonedin Snoop Dogg guest verse (\"Time Is Now\"). And there's not as much eccentricity and adventurousness as there was five years ago, when he rapped about skateboarding and antidepressants on his musthave Definitive Jux album The End of the Beginning. Most of the subject matter on Murs for President is a bit more workaday, mostly sticking to complaints about rap's creative decline, stories of what it's like to tour 200 days a year, and especially relationship issues four consecutive tracks near the end of the album are about love and breakups, which get a bit exhausting without someone like Feltmate Slug to act as a snotty foil.But Murs' strengths are hard to undercut: He thrives on basic honesty, everyday relatability, and a plainspokenness that makes you wonder if Ice Cube had another chill, smartassed MC cousin besides Del. His charm is still intact teaching rap history and sociology without condescension on \"The Science\"; letting pentup frustration dissipate into gratitude for his life as an artist on \"Can It Be (Half a Million Dollars and 18 Months Later)\"; cracking wise on \"Breakthrough\" about working at Target or Best Buy for the employee discount if the album flops. He also maintains his status as a strong storyteller with a good eye for character, like he does on \"Think You Know Me\", where he steps into the roles of three different people who might be considered gangbangers by outside sources and comes up with sympathetic characters a South Central youth advisor, an exfelon frustrated at his limited job prospects, a hardworking Latino family man and business owner.And you could do worse than the collection of passable beats here. Frequent collaborator 9th Wonder contributes three solid tracks (\"I'm Innocent\", \"Love and Appreciate II\", and \"Breakthrough\") that, along with this summer's worthwhile freebie Sweet Lord, prove their long working partnership still has a lot of life in it. Upandcomer Scoop Deville turns in a couple productions \"The Science\", which pairs up a hardcharging beat with ethereal flutes, and the early 70s Motown Michael Jackson cutup on \"Can It Be\" that sound more like the work of a sampleslaying thirtysomething vet than a dude born in the 80s. Throw in Niggaracci's gospel armwaver on \"Time Is Now\", DJ Khalil's funkbounce acid rock on \"Road Is My Religion\", and a couple solidenough gfunk throwbacks from Nottz (\"Think You Know Me\"; \"Me and This Jawn\"), and you've got a pretty decent backbone for a straightforward hiphop album.Yeah, Murs for President could be a bit better. It falters next to most of the albums Murs has released over the last few years, and it isn't even the best album he's done this year (that'd be Sweet Lord). But I hope he succeeds with it anyways, just to prove that there's still room for an unpretentious gimmickfree everyman in commercial hiphop. It sounds like Murs is speaking from experience on \"I'm Innocent\" when he proclaims during the intro: \"Look don't ever let the fact that you can't be perfect stop you from doing your best.\" Don't let the fact that Murs for President isn't perfect keep you from picking it up, either. "}