{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12565/homepage_large.f3b02fdb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mia Clarke","artist":"Leila","title":"Blood, Looms and Blooms","text":" When Warp signed the Londonbased Iranian DJ, musician, and producer Leila Arab to their already impressive roster, it was a smart choice for a label that has always successfully supported progressive electronic music with pop sensibilities. Leila's third album, Blood, Looms and Blooms, fits this theme well while retaining an individuality that sets it apart from its contemporaries. Featuring collaborations with notable vocalists, such as former Tricky partner Martina TopleyBird and Specials frontman Terry Hall, this album fuses the personalities of its varied guests with an adventurous palette of sound. The combination lifts the music off familiar ground, revealing Leila as an artist unafraid to take risks that tug her further from the popular radar than would be the case if she chose to take a lesschallenging path.It is the exquisite attention to the possibility, behavior, and character of sound that makes Blood, Looms and Blooms an accomplished piece of work. Leila's years of experience as a live DJ and programmer (she has recorded music on Aphex Twin's label and done live remixing and engineering for Björk, as well as supporting her with a DJ slot earlier this year) really come into play here. Every single noise, no matter how small in the mix, appears to be heavily treated and subjected to radical EQing taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the Logic computer program she favors. These farreaching, assured explorations of sound are particularly breathtaking on the album's first single, \"Mettle\", which is also one of the few exclusively instrumental tracks. The dark mood and layered rhythmic sparring is uncannily reminiscent of fellow label mate Flying Lotus, and weaves a sample of a dripping faucet that has been sequenced to sound like a beat into the tough fibres of other pleasingly combative lower frequencies. Another highlight is \"Daisies, Cats and Spacemen\", where Leila's sister, Roya Arab, provides striking vocals and lyrics, which are weighted with imagery of ancient cities and \"filthy footmarks reflecting tearfilled skies.\"Blood, Looms And Blooms manages to feel strikingly singular despite being such a patchwork of different personalities, from the Becklike indie feel of \"Little Acorns\" to the IDMinfluenced \"Carplos\" to the uplifting accessibility of \"Deflect\". It's fitting that Leila's magical realismevoking press photographs play on a Frida Kahlomeetscrazed inventor concept. With this album she has created an experiment of enormous sonic range and openness at 14 tracks this leaves a lot of room in which to expand, yet the sound never strays from its essential logic and reveals something new at every turn. Leila herself has suggested that her ability to weld together so many ideas which may well come across as cluttered under the influence of someone else's ear and imagination could have been influenced by her initial refugee status upon in the UK with her family, following the Iranian revolution of 1979. In a recent interview she reflected on this idea, \"I realised very early on that people don't really belong anywhere. That's what gives me the freedom to do any kind of music...I don't feel any commitment or loyalty to anything. My commitment is to noise.\" "}