{"label":" Columbia Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12579/homepage_large.c0ed5d41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Miles Davis","title":"Kind of Blue: 50th Anniversary Edition","text":" Miles Davis's Kind of Blue belongs to that special class of album that everybody treasures immediately and then, over time, goes on to process in his or her own terms. For some, it's a masterpiece so resounding in its effect as to make the rest of \"jazz\" extraneous (or at least reasonably deferred until some later point when older or more patient). For others, it's a hallmark whose masterpiece status no amount of further exploration could impugn. Either way, everybody likes it. As QTip says on a documentary included with this new 2xCD/DVD 50thanniversary set, \"It's like the Bible you just have one in your house.\" All of that might make Kind of Blue sound kind of boring, and indeed, part of the album's allure owes to the fact that it is among the least immediately radical paradigmshifters you're ever likely to hear. As another bit on the DVD tells it, this one from the host of the 1950s TV show \"The Robert Herridge Theater\", a serious guy in blackandwhite, smoking: \"There are many ways to tell a story, and what you're listening to now the music of Miles Davis is one of the ways.\" Such matteroffact understatement suits Kind of Blue, an album that sounds like it's never been in a good mood it didn't consider fleeting or a bad one it couldn't brood its way out of. When Davis and his band commenced recording in 1959, they settled on a new form of \"modal\" jazz that called for improvising through scales as opposed to preordained chord changes. And even if that doesn't sound apparent to an untrained musical ear, it's suggested by a spectral sense of wandering an ease with uncertainty that comes across in no uncertain terms. Kind of Blue's rewards get doled out patiently and persistently, from the cool walk of \"So What\" to the magisterial glide of \"Flamenco Sketches\". The tracks that fall between \"Freddie Freeloader\", \"Blue in Green\", and \"All Blues\" cover pretty much everything else. The story of them all is told to good effect in Celebrating a Masterpiece: Kind of Blue, a 55minute documentary that anchors this new anniversary package which also includes a 60page book and the album on blue vinyl. Nobody with a curious ear has hurt for Kind of Bluerelated resources over the years, especially since a remaster in 1997 rescued the sound of it in fantastic fashion. The CD sounds the same in this new package, which pairs Kind of Blue on a disc with an alreadyreleased alternate take of \"Flamenco Sketches\" and nine short falsestarts and studio bits, none longer than two minutes. Disc 2 cobbles together six earlier recordings by the players responsible for Kind of Blue: Davis, Cannonball Adderley, John Coltrane, Bill Evans, Paul Chambers, and Jimmy Cobb. The standout is a 17minute live recording of \"So What\" played much faster, tighter, and harder than simmering version that went on the finished album. The DVD features the full 26minute \"Robert Herridge Theater\" show supplementing the documentary, which does an admirable job of taking the album itself as its subject. Some of the drama that surrounded the making of it enters in, but for the most part, the film focuses on how the album works and why. Much of it owes to the whole of the band. But then there's Davis an inimitable presence who drummer Cobb, still a bit wowed this many years later, describes as sounding \"like he was sitting on an iceberg somewhere out in the South Pole, alone.\" As an album, Kind of Blue is unimpeachable, the kind of record you look forward to listening to decades down the line. As a reissue, this anniversary package (expensive at $109.98) is nice but less than essential, best for completists or those with good record players to put the new vinyl pressing to good use. "}