{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12586/homepage_large.477c617b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Yo Majesty","title":"Futuristically Speaking...Never Be Afraid","text":" Everything I've read about Yo Majesty makes me want to give them due respect. Tampa MCs Shunda K and Jwl. B make their names as outfront lesbians in a pop scene where an empty Maxim fantasy vessel like Katy Perry is considered sexually transgressive, and details of Yo Majesty's live shows Bacardifueled wildout energy, rocking mics topless like LL, beats that made crunk and hiphouse scissor each other led me to think of them as an idea whose time had come. Here was something rap had sorely lacked: kickass women who appreciate a booty clap as much as the fellas but are also completely unafraid to knock a misogynist's dick in the dirt.It's a hell of a background, which makes it that much more disappointing at how disjointed their fulllength debut, Futuristically Speaking...Never Be Afraid, tends to sound. Earlier this year, Yo Majesty dropped the fivetrack Kryptonite Pussy EP, and in that compact context they sounded full of promise, focused, and fierce and often hilarious over an ideal retromodern mix of Miami bass, classic electro, and modern house. Futuristically Speaking still has flashes of that excitement, thanks to a usuallyhigh energy level and heavy production input from longtime collaborators Hard Feelings UK that does its best to keep things focused on assshaking beats. And Basement Jaxx chip in a bit of their time to contribute one of the best beats on the album, \"Booty Klap\", which pushes ghettotech into blownout absurdity without actually making a patronizing joke out of it. (Bonus: One of the most enthusiastic, giddy deliveries of the word \"booty\" you'll ever want to hear.)Shunda K and Jwl. B are taut MCs, at their best shouting deceptively simple hooks that drop into motormouthed liquid flows or sleek harmonies without warning. And they've got a good handle on balancing rebellious agitation with a fixation on getting off; \"Night Riders\" has a neat baitandswitch that turns a latenite cruising anthem into an indictment of police brutality and poverty, and \"Hott\" sums up their approach to sex with one provocative question: \"You ever have an orgasm while you're pissed?\" But a fair amount of the record fails to play to their strengths, often times by putting them in the middle of unexpected genre exercises, and stylistic digressions like the furious, violent punk rock tirade \"Fucked Up\", downtempo funk cut \"Get Down on the Floor\", and the semiacoustic R&B slow jam \"Buy Love\" feel so out of place it's actually kind of hard to tell that they're not actually bad songs. (That's more than you can say for the title track, where their 4/4 flows and the offbeat time signature of Sunship's production never really seem to mesh.)Disjointed as it is, there's still a solid half hour of getwild anthems inside this uneven 55 minutes. Sticking it out to the end provides some highlights: \"Grindin' and Shakin'\" bumps like an M.I.A. production stripped down to a clattering, stomping drumline and a great titular hook, \"Club Action\" is a Detroitstyle cut that features a chant of \"fuck that shit\" delivered, amusingly enough, over a strictly vestigial censor beep, and \"Take It Away\" closes things out like an unusually tight version of JJ Fad tweaked for the E'd up postMissy generation. If you took the best half of Futuristically Speaking and appended it to Kryptonite Pussy, you'd have a damn good hourlong party record, and getting over a dozen hot tracks from Yo Majesty within a year is proof enough that there's plenty of weight to their potential. "}