{"label":" P.W. Elverum & Sun","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12588/homepage_large.ff49cfdc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Solarski","artist":"Mount Eerie With Julie Doiron and Fred Squire","title":"Lost Wisdom","text":" At a glance, a Phil Elverum/Julie Doiron meetup seems entirely apt, perhaps even inevitable. The two share collaborators, hail from sleepy corners of their respective countries, and make music a Last.fm or Pandora bot would more than likely peg as \"similar.\" Viewed a certain way, however, the two couldn't be more far afield. Elverum, as a songwriter, has long occupied himself with The Big Questions, his catalog full of probing meditations on birth and death, the elements, and the unknown. Doiron, conversely, has consistently stuck to the simple and domestic, quietly reveling in the tangible and everyday. Songs such as \"Snowfalls in November\" are patiently observed odes to satisfaction and serenity in the absolute. In short, Doiron is the contented period to Elverum's searching question mark.The minialbum Lost Wisdom represents an intersection of those two distinct sensibilities and their resulting voices: Elverum, his tone often hesitant and sorrowful; Doiron, her singing reassuringly direct and familiar. For Doiron, this is a chance to wrap her warm, homespun vocals around Elverum's words of uncertainty, bringing earthly color to songs which, under the Mount Eerie banner alone, might emerge cold and gray. From her entrance on opening track \"Lost Wisdom\", a stately rumination rife with natural imagery which sets the tone for the album, through her solitary vocal on the Songsera Leonard Cohenevoking \"If We Knew...\", and on to the closing duet \"Grave Robbers\", Doiron is a reassuring presence in songworld often threatening to capitulate to doubt.Indeed, it's this presence of a second voice that distinguishes Lost Wisdom amid the abundance of postMicrophones Phil Elverum material. To hear Elverum sing of his existential quandaries in isolation is frequently compelling, but with these songs often cast as duets, we're presented with the notion that Phil's struggles are universal. Nowhere is this better demonstrated than on \"Voice in Headphones\", the closest thing to a standout track on Lost Wisdom, with its harmonized refrain borrowed from Björk's \"Undo\" of \"It's not meant to be a strife/ It's not meant to be a struggle uphill.\" It's the sort of lyric Elverum would have the whole crowd singing along to at a show, and here surrounded as it is by plenty of brooding restraint it sounds resoundingly triumphant, a more terrestrial counterpart to the otherworldly song it quotes and a kind of modern day spiritual for those oppressed within.Elverum, too, benefits from the de facto constraints of this collaboration. The album was recorded during a brief touring respite, forcing him to forgo the intricate (if still lofi) ornamentation that typically adorns his output. It is instead, as he told Pitchfork, a \"documentary of a session.\" Even Fred Squire's electric guitar is notably unobtrusive as it complements the two voices and the steady rumble of Phil's acoustic. The result is a collection of songs so taut and concisely resonant as to be psalms. But psalms to be sung, perhaps, in secret: \"Grave Robbers\", the closing track, ends with someone abruptly shutting off the tape. In a way we're made to feel as though we've been eavesdropping all the while, but even so, seldom has an act of auditory voyeurism been so rewarding. "}