{"label":" Cadmean Dawn","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12601/homepage_large.f017802a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"The Mountain Goats","title":"Satanic Messiah EP","text":" In John Darnielle's voice, everything is urgent. He trembles through quiet moments like he's straining for warmth in winter, and rattles through loud ones like a revving engine. His voice isn't just the center of the Mountain Goats, it's their essence. This is a liability as often as it is an asset: Of the people I know who hate his music, the first explanations are always that \"the singing is annoying\" and \"I don't care about the words.\" His scenarios are suffused with confusion and dread. His best characters' tragic flaw is benign faith in ventures doomed to spectacular failure. But he uses songs to order and explicate messes, not mimic them. In his music, methheads and abused teenagers types not known for their lucidity speak in complete sentences. And they come through Darnielle's tough, reedy, persistent voice. Trying to define his songs as happy or sad is irrelevant, because intensity real, immolating intensity is neither.But Darnielle has given his voice a rest in the past few years. And in the absence of urgency, is space to reflect. Songs like The Sunset Tree's \"Song for Dennis Brown\" or \"Love, Love, Love\", Get Lonely's \"In Corolla\", or Heretic Pride's \"Marduk TShirt Incident\" sound different than anything he's ever done before, and sometimes, better. I think some fans hear this as a weakness Darnielle's exemplary moments carry the same grace and power to his fans as a wellset blastbeat does to the metalhead.Two new EPs Satanic Messiah, limited to 666 vinyl copies and offered as a paywhatyouwill release here, and Black Pear Tree present Darnielle in ways we've never heard him before: With distinct, independent supporting actors (the pointillistic, vivid guitar work of Kaki King); and solo, with piano. And their best moments are the clearest articulations of the progress he's made as a performer someone who no longer needs to mime hysteria to show he really means it.Satanic Messiah, the pianoheavy set, has a pious, meditative quality to it. The ease of his performances disconnects them from the violence of his lyrics. But it also reinforces them moments that Darnielle might've throttled in the past take on sanctity and earthiness; by taking a calm hand to a volatile situation, Darnielle bronzes the moment.Two songs, \"Satanic Messiah\" and \"Sarcofago Live\", assume the vantage point of a fan seeing a band. The first is one of the best in his catalog: Direct in vocabulary and elliptical in narrative, with a sentiment that shifts its weight from anthem to depth charge. He compares a rock star to a prophet, and delivers the moment with a quiet dignity reserved for church. Even as an obvious proponent of music's power his onstage quaking is a wrench in the mindbody duality argument this is a gamble. But when Darnielle extends the same tenderness to disenfranchised Ethiopians murdering tax collectors in \"Gojam Province 1968\", he renews a commitment he's made for almost 20 years: Not giving a voice to the voiceless, exactly, but articulating the experience of people too possessed to know what to say.Black Pear Tree, a vinyl and touronly EP recorded with the guitarist Kaki King, is one of the only times he's shared center stage. Her vocals on the nearstatic title track drag his lyrics around like a jail sentence. Dread's nothing new in his songwriting, but his verbal clarity makes vaguer emotions fear, for example a challenge. \"I saw the future in a dream last night, somebody's gonna get hurt, somebody's gonna get hurt/ I hope it's not me, but I suspect it's going to have to be\" is as lean as hopelessness gets, but it's not till later that Darnielle's verbiage blurs to a point where the words mimic the feeling: \"And when its time came I could see it happen, blossoms black and sweet as Texas crude/ I saw the future flowering like a ruptured vessel, somebody's gonna get screwed\" now there's doom to get lost in.On \"Mosquito Repellent\", King chops at a guitar while Darnielle needles through a lyric about a hopeless, highstrung guy waiting for nothing in particular in a rare moment, she sounds freed from her virtuosity and he from his rep as the Mountain Goats, and they're collaborating. Her guitar performances deft, pinging adventures are strong enough to prop up a slapdash indie pop song, and the weaker \"Bring Our Curses Home\" and \"Roger Patterson Van\" get over by the grace of her playing.They close with \"Thank You Mario But Our Princess Is in Another Castle\", which is about Toad, a character whose sole purpose in the original \"Super Mario Bros.\" was to wait in terrifying darkness for Mario to arrive, only to wave him through to the next level. But the tail of the song bends to offer the same sweet relief that the Mountain Goats have always leant the used and abused: \"When you came in, I could breathe again.\" Alone, hopelessly but at least someone's thinking of him. "}