{"label":" Canvasback","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12596/homepage_large.ecc4e7ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Annuals","title":"Such Fun","text":" Yes, that's a Bob Ross painting functioning as the cover art for Annuals' second album Such Fun, their first fulllength for Sony/Columbia boutique Canvasback. The man whose kitschy celebrity comes from the serenity of his voice and his homespun DIY inclinations (firstpage YouTube results for Ross are mostly parodies, which is sort of sad). These aren't exactly the initial associations I'd want people making at the Best Buy new music endcap, but fortunately for Annuals and their listeners, Such Fun is nearly the opposite of serene populism. As on the moderately more enjoyable Be He Me, Adam Baker and his band are hellbent on disorienting their listeners, through nailing erratic bouts of punk and prog onto selfpitying balladry and slackjawed country, and inflating songs to oftridiculous sizes before returning them to their original states. For the cover art, maybe an offhismeds folk collage artist might have been more truetoform.Baker coproduced Fun with Jacquire King, most known for his skill in wrangling iconoclastic rural eccentrics like Tom Waits and Isaac Brock, and making them sound full and modern while still anxious and/or nostalgic. King also helmed Kings of Leon's most recent effort, though, and while there are vague echoes of Brock in Baker's mercurial emotions on Fun, bigness and a borderline gimmicky connection to rurality remain the overriding aesthetics. \"Hot Night Hounds\" is a perfect example: An opening jittery piano figure is augmented ad infinitum as the two keep tacking shit onto it like untrained carpenters making a mansion out of a motor home. What starts as The Soft Bulletin somehow ends as Faith No More, and one of the song's recommendable traits is that it holds together without collapsing. That's the Annuals' schtick of course, and it would be unfair to expect them to suddenly switch gears, even for an ostensibly larger audience. Opening track \"Confessor\" recalls earlier single \"Dry Clothes\", and \"Springtime\" and \"Hardwood Floor\" come directly from the band's postFuneral blueprint: calmness turning into a tempest and coming back again, one of Baker's vocal halves screaming at the peaceful one, oldtimey instrumentation. \"Floor\" blooms into the sort of vocabled ethnic chant the band is enamored of, and \"Springtime\" recalls an even more bombastic update of Fleetwood Mac's \"Tusk\", which isn't a bad thing. While Fun is far from a collection of happy little trees created with a magic putty knife, the element of surprise that rendered Be He Me so invigorating has been repurposed and lessened.But there are other moves on Fun that show the band directing its plentiful energy in a different, intriguing direction. \"Down the Mountain\" merges hyperactive hillbilly (complete with fiddles and ambient country sound effects) with a chorus aimed at the mallemo contingent, to which Baker's youthful timbre is perfectly suited. Dark, chugging guitars surround a howled question more petulant than plaintive: \"How could you take my only answer?!\" A bit later, \"Talking\" takes \"Mountain\" to one extreme it's a densely produced, riffladen poppunk song, within which the stately elements (soaring guitars, proclamatory brass) manage to fit.  Both herald a new direction, but not too far of a stretch: After all, My Chemical Romance and Arcade Fire have much more in common than a vocal contingent of indie bluebloods would like to admit.And that's where Annuals find themselves now: In that liminal stage between online indiedom, where fans assume they've organically nurtured bands and pushed them out into the world, and the equally precarious nichebased realm of a major's experimental microlabel. Such Fun ends with \"Wake\", perhaps the prettiest and most focused song on the album, with a wellearned and satisfying crescendo at the close. \"Wake\" is one of many indications that Annuals might well have it within themselves (though maybe in spite of themselves) to rein it in a notch and reach for that evermore elusive monocultural consensus moment, one that might occasion their relocation from Canvasback's payweekly condo into more permanent housing. For the time being, though, they'll make do bunking with Manchester Orchestra. "}