{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12598/homepage_large.c8dbf064.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mia Clarke","artist":"The Howling Hex","title":"Earth Junk","text":" Following the demise of Royal Trux in 2001, guitarist Neil Michael Hagerty went on to record with D.C. punk honcho Ian Svenonius on Weird War's nofrills, selftitled debut. Since then, he's largely focused on the Howling Hex, a prolific, rambling rock project currently based in New Mexico that features a revolving cast of musicians, the only constant being Hagerty himself. Over the last five years, the group's nine albums have been adventurous, if at times distracted, experiments that inject conventional songwriting formulas with the sort of playful absurdity and nihilism that Hagerty's been trading in since his days with Pussy Galore in the 1980s.The Howling Hex's latest record, Earth Junk, has many qualities that invite the listener's attention and suggest great musical possibility: there's a general ambience of late60s psych that runs throughout the album, both in the tone of the recording and in the spiky, upfront guitar lines which are pleasingly reminiscent of the Zombies. The band also effectively adopts the Hammond organ as the dominant percussive instrument, which relaxes the need for proper drums in the manner of Suicide while giving the music a nice spaciousness and melodic breathing room. Combined with a deficiency of actual hooks, however, the lack of a beat ends up taking its toll, leading to forgettable songs and giving the record an overly linear feel. Fortunately, Hagerty's proficiency as a songwriter is revealed in his guitar playing, which always features heavily on Howling Hex recordings and introduces color and dynamic spark to the rough bagginess of the song structures.Opening the album with whined lyrics like \"ringadingding\" and \"rama tam tama\" does not bode well for what is to come. There is something deeply irritating about Hagerty's voice on this album; it sounds overtly affected, as though he's trying to emulate the vocal style of the type of baroque pop that has clearly influenced this record while falling awkwardly short. Luckily, this is balanced out by the reverbsaturated, soulful vocals of Eleanor Whitmore on tracks such as \"Annie Get Redzy\". She also takes the lead on \"Faithful Sister\" and \"Contraband & Betrayal\", and indeed, the tracks she sings on are generally the strongest. When Whitmore's voice is paired with the playful, honkytonk keys, the music often strikes common ground with the Fiery Furnaces, though it lacks the taunt weave and quickwink smartness that makes that band so intriguing.The back of the album artwork shows a photograph of Hagerty's face, beside which the track listing is split in two, possibly suggesting that the album is open to being seen in two parts. Certainly it seems that way, as from middle track \"No Good Reason\" onwards, the songwriting becomes more enjoyable, such as the bluesy, spaced out craziness of \"Blood & Dust\". Still, these later highlights are not enough to recommend the album at as a whole. At just over 33 minutes, Earth Junk is a short recording, but even at that length, the limited sonic range and repetitive tricks are ultimately draining. "}