{"label":" Touch and Go / Quarterstick","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1221/homepage_large.9fba7314.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Calexico","title":"Feast of Wire","text":" Calexico have always been restless experimenters, juxtaposers and journeymen, crafting a unique fusion of bluesy Mariachi, desertrock and jazz, and injecting healthy doses of experimentation into the otherwise straightforward records on which they've made guest appearances. Yet, for their innovation and distinctive sound, their albums have always had their weak spots moments in which their ideas seemed to be running away with the band's ability to execute them. That time has passed. All of Calexico's previous strengths come home to roost on Feast of Wire, the band pushing their experiments further than ever before and pulling each of them off unfalteringly. In short, Calexico have created their first genuinely masterful fulllength, crammed with immediate songcraft, shifting moods and openended exploration. A brief acoustic guitar figure and pounding waltz beat open things at a crisp gait. Joey Burns quickly intones with the lines, \"Washed my face in the rivers of empire/ Made my bed with a cardboard crate,\" immediately establishing the tension of the borderline that pulls Calexico's music in its many directions. Burns is suddenly a singer he's always made do with what he had, but the limitations that were once so apparent have developed into a strong and confident tenor, assertive and emotive. The music behind him feels bolder and more courageous, too, as the veil of obscurity that guarded so much of their previous releases has vanished. The detail of this album is utterly stunning, as melodies rise against countermelodies, subtle electronic processing seals guitars in amber, and instruments blend in fascinating and unpredictable ways. The band keeps things tight and concise across sixteen tracks, and John Convertino's drums corral the rush of sound into all the right spaces, pushing the steel guitar motifs that color the background of \"Quattro (World Drifts In)\" up to meet Burns' vocals and beating back the bombastic strings that cascade over \"Black Heart\" like a desert thunderstorm. \"Not Even Stevie Nicks\" is pristine pop that makes me wish Burns would find more occasions to use his falsetto. It also makes me wish he'd print his lyrics, even if lines like, \"With a head like a vulture and a heart full of hornets/ He drives off the cliff into the blue,\" convey such a rush of emotions that they virtually fill in the blanks by themselves. He's still full of border stories, too, with narratives like \"Across the Wire\" packing up tales of dodging the border patrol and leaving everything you know for the abstraction of hope. \"Woven Birds\" is a hushed reverie for an abandoned mission that even the swallows have left to the ghosts, building to spinetingling moments where the vocals, Melodica and vibes all meet on the same note and coalesce into a single sound. The piano and strings of \"The Book and the Canal\" serve as a moody pivot into the album's mostly instrumental second half, though the darkness of that piece is largely swept aside by \"Attack El Robot! Attack!\", which mashes Pharaoh Sanders, Portuguese guitar and German IDM into a beautiful stew of scifi strangeness. \"Dub Latina\" and \"Crumble\" show Calexico burrowing deeper into jazz than ever before, with the latter featuring fluid guitar, trombone and trumpet solos squaring off against each other over a whitehot groove. \"Güero Canelo\" is a curious flamenco strut built around what sounds like a distorted SpeaknSpell sample and sliding sound effects, while \"Whipping the Horse's Eyes\" and the closer, \"No Doze\", each examine big skies and desert stillness one with steel guitar and bowed bass, the other with bowed vibes, nylon strings, static, percussion and steel. Burns is back to a whisper on the closer, but here it strikes as though he's trying not to wake someone sleeping in the room rather than shielding the listener from his limitations. Calexico have always threatened to make a spectacular record, and even came close on 1998's The Black Light, but having spent the last three years honing their skills has paid off for them in ways no one could have predicted. Feast of Wire calls on a stunning, finely kept arsenal of genres, textures and images to transport you to the Southwest's forgotten places and put you in the shoes of the people who stare across the border in both directions. It is the album we always knew they had in them but feared they would never make. "}