{"label":" Island","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12611/homepage_large.f5c2f1e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Ewing","artist":"Keane","title":"Perfect Symmetry","text":" Keane's career so far has rested on being the UK's smallest big band. Their hits have often been naked pleas for security and comfort in an era of baffling change, and they've sealed their everyman appeal by projecting these insecurities and worries onto the monster canvas stadium rock affords.Perfect Symmetry promises a shift in direction. Jacques Lu Cont's Stuart Price produced some of it; electronic tweaks and jagged drum patterns abound; they've radicalized their instrumental palette well, they've put a musical saw on one track. And perhaps most strikingly this is the first time they've put a record out in the same year as style leaders Coldplay. This album has been hyped in the same way Viva La Vida was as an experimental gearchange to escape a potential rut.It starts well. First single \"Spiralling\" is enjoyably awkward and unexpectedly vigorous; all lurching rhythms, blaring keyboards, and desperate clipped whoops as Tom Chaplin sings about a life slipping into chaos. He then tries to ruin the song with a risible \"Once in a Lifetime\" spokenword section, but he can't quite wreck his band's momentum. \"The Lovers Are Losing\" takes \"Spiralling\" and irons out its kinks, taking us into pure 80s chestbeating territory: An unashamed populist bigness of sound, underpinned by bright keyboards. Keane as a reborn Simple Minds, perhaps, or huger yet a melodic lift from U2's \"In God's Country\" serves notice that this band are aiming high indeed.But that's part of the record's problem after a few songs Perfect Symmetry's maximalism exhausts the listener. It can feel like Keane have been holed up in some pop laboratory, studying previous methods for making \"big music\" and ticking them off one by one. The title track, for instance, blends rolling piano, a trademark drivetime chorus, a middle eight out of the Born to Run playbook and a coda which finds common ground between U2 and ABBA. Oh, and it's a meditation on the July 2005 terror attacks in London. This is a lot to freight a song with, and in trying Keane sacrifice dynamics for bluster: none of its ideas manage to break loose and stand out.Tom Chaplin's vocals run into similar trouble. He has a rich, crowdstirring voice which he uses in exactly the same soaring way on almost every track: No vowel escapes unstretched, no meaning unstressed. It's the emotional equivalent of dynamic range compression the meters of feeling pushed unvaryingly into the red until you're left with a sense that passion is his comfort zone. Admittedly if you're given lines like \"The sky will be my shroud/ A cenotaph of cloud\" you can't afford to blink when you deliver them, but it means the more interesting images like \"I dream in emails\" sound dumber than they actually are.By the back end of Perfect Symmetry, it's business as usual for Keane: Epic piano belters to the fore, and the experimental approach promised by \"Spiralling\" has devolved into a rather odd James pastiche (\"Pretend That You're Alone\") though by then you're grateful for any respite from the massiveness. To an extent, the world has called Keane's bluff even in the good times they traded in vague fretting, and now their lyrics are full of dislocation, futility, and panic. I can sympathize, but most of Perfect Symmetry sounds overinflated. It's a band reaching for an arenasize sound and scale, but Keane's primary inspirations filled those huge spaces with charisma, not just glossy noise. "}