{"label":" Awake Productions","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12612/homepage_large.cf901402.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Awake, My Soul: The Original Soundtrack / Help Me to Sing: Songs of the Sacred Harp","text":" Since watching the 2006 documentary Awake, My Soul: The Story of the Sacred Harp and listening to the justreleased soundtrack, I've been trying to imagine what it would be like to hear a Sacred Harp singing from within the hollow square. That space around which all the singers gather is, according to the documentary, the ideal place to hear this form of a cappella singing, where you can feel the full force of every voice in the room. The singers don't take a stage or stand in a loft, as they do in many churches. Rather, the choir becomes the congregation, the performers their own audience. Sacred Harp singing or shapenote singing, as it is often called is not performative or presentational, but participatory and communal, and to hear these songs from your stereo speakers or ear buds is to experience only a fraction of the music's power. Or, as filmmaker Matt Hinton writes in the liner notes to the Awake, My Soul­ soundtrack, \"A Sacred Harp recording may be the light, but a Sacred Harp singing is the sun.\"Despite that intrinsic shortcoming, the soundtrack nevertheless sounds revelatory and exultant, dense with harmonic ideas and often overwhelming even on CD. Sacred Harp singing is spiritual music, but despite its name and the circumstances of its practice, there is no scriptural imperative for this style of singing, aside from the Biblical admonition to \"Seek the old paths and walk therein\" a verse printed in the Sacred Harp hymnal. Its authority is primarily historical, with roots in the settlement of the American colonies and the consequent spread of singing schools and itinerant music teachers. During the 1800s, a composer named B.F. White developed a musical technology that employed only four notes of the sevennote scale fa, sol, la, and mi which he represented on the page with different shapes. Hence the name shapenote singing.The soundtrack consists of recordings made between 1998 and 2006 at rural churches in Georgia and Alabama. Many begin with a verse sung only in syllables, creating a dense swarm of harmony from which melodies and lyrics arise. Some you may be familiar with: I sang \"Jordan, 66\" innumerable times growing up in a Southern Baptist church, but I knew the song as \"There Is a Land of Pure Delight\". And everyone knows \"New Britain, 45t\" as \"Amazing Grace\", which the Liberty Baptist Church singers in Henegar, Alabama, manage to render freshly captivating.  Many of these recordings are straightforward, showcasing full, clean notes with no vibrato or slurs, but they are never simple. \"Stratfield, 142\" and \"America, 36t\" sound like chants, only more emphatic and excited, and the soundtrack contains several examples of fuguing songs, including the moving \"Russia, 107\", which set the singers in a roundelay to create intricate rhythms and harmonies.Sacred Harp singing is not only one of the country's earliest indigenous musical traditions, but in clearly rejecting European refinements, it is an essentially American style, favoring populism rather than exceptionalism. Singers sing together, with no soloist nor accompaniment of any kind. Even in the rigid strictures of these shaped notes, there are, however, occasional opportunities for selfexpression. On the incredibly raucous \"Bear Creek, 269\", a lone alto soars an octave above the harmonies, ecstatic in praise and musicmaking. So don't mistake the music's historical weight for for a dutybound listen or a scholarly undertaking: As music heard well outside the hollow square, the recordings can be powerful and moving. To quote the popular hymn, this soundtrack has its own ten thousand charms.Accompanying Awake, My Soul is a second disc titled Help Me to Sing, on which contemporary musicians offer their own interpretations of Sacred Harp songs. They are largely and inevitably more subdued, and thankfully so. Attempts to mimic too literally the abandon of actual Sacred Harp singings would surely ring false. Rather than emphasizing performance, Help Me to Sing focuses on the songs themselves, historical documents that in some cases predate the Declaration of Independence, yet still sound viable today.A tribute album by default, Help Me to Sing opens and closes with the otherworldly, sinnerincrisis drone of \"Blooming Youth, 176b\" by Rayna Gellert and John Paul Jones and \"Bound for Canaan, 82b\" by Old 97s bass player Murry Hammond. In between are a variety of interpretations and musical settings, some dutifully reverent and others slightly freer. The Innocence Mission's \"Africa, 178\" and Liz Janes' \"Abbeville, 33b\" sound hushed and liturgical, as if singing might be a form of personal prayer, and Jim Lauderdale (who narrates the documentary) creates what might be called a low lonesome sound on \"The Christian's Hope, 134\". On the other hand, Elvis Perkins in Dearland and the Good Players recreate the spirit of Sacred Harp singing with different means namely, rock instruments and toward different ends, while Tenement Halls (featuring Hinton on guitar) rework \"Essay, 157\" into a rambunctious rocker and All Things Bright & Beautiful's \"China, 163b\" builds and builds but never resolves, the journey being much more important than the destination.Largely, the more subdued songs carry more power. Sam Amidon's \"Kedron, 48b\" has a sackclothhumble arrangement featuring only a ragged electric guitar, which suits his bent voice ideally, and DM Stith's \"Christian's Farewell, 347\" needs only an ethereal choir for accompaniment. By contrast, the menacing bass vocal on Richard Buckner's \"Windham 38b\" comes across as cartoonish and Woven Hand's sinister \"Consecration, 448t\" just sounds hammy. But the most telling moment on Help Me to Sing comes in the transition between Danielson's gloriously strange, if curiously withdrawn \"Sermon on the Mount, 507\" and Doc Watson's homey performance of \"Am I Born to Die?, Idumea 47b\" That segue from orchestrated to merely accompanied, from public to personal reveals the durability and versatility of these old songs. They can convey any emotion, support any reading, and inspire in any setting.  "}