{"label":" Atlantic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12614/homepage_large.8d5b691c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist OST","text":" Seeing as music's a titular concern in Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist, one would think the soundtrack a playlist, after all, however finite might have a little more to do with what's on the screen. It's a cute little movie decently scripted, wellacted mumblecore for teens. Though its portrayal of indie fandom seems focusgrouped and reconstituted within an inch of its life, the film's earnest romance about young love, about New York City, and about losing your shit over music in its various forms helps quell the inevitable cynicism. This movie is, after all, called Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist.The thing is, the film isn't actually about music. Sure, Nick labors over heartwrenching mix CDs for his newly exgirlfriend, which Norah finds discarded and cherishes as her own. Indeed, much of the movie's storyline is predicated on its characters finding a purportedly awesome band with the unfortunate name of Where's Fluffy?, and there is the occasional conversation about real live music and actual listening habits and such. But, really, music as it exists in the film is a plot device rather than a thing of actual concern for the characters; a quick findandreplace on the ol' script, and you could just as easily turn Nick and Norah into voracious cinephiles trying to hunt down a rare screening or something.That in mind, the film music that actually makes its way to the soundtrack is, at best, secondary to the goingson.  Nearly every song is used much as it might be in any other commercial film about anything; occasionally, a choice cut like Richard Hawley's searching \"Baby, You're My Light\" in a tender scene evokes the moment at hand, and Bishop Allen do appear onscreen to play a few bars of \"Middle Management\" at a show. Oh, and there's Devendra Banhart, for a halfsecond, talking about orgasms. By and large, though, tunes are relegated to mere background noise, something to fill in the silence of the surroundings.Taken as a playlist, the Nick and Norah soundtrack has only a few things to recommend it. It's totally frontloaded, leading off with Chris Bell's classic ballad \"Speed of Sound\" and leading into Devendra's bouncy \"Lover\", the aforementioned Bishop Allen track, and Vampire Weekend's stellar new \"Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa\" quoting \"Ottoman\". Things dip significantly around the Dead 60s almost comically hollow Franz Ferdinand ripoff, picking up again briefly with Band of Horses' lovely, compact \"Our Swords\" and highlighted throughout by Hawley, a nothalfbad Shout Out Louds tune, and Mark Mothersbaugh's spacily evocative theme song. Much of it is decidedly unexceptional, favoring generally applicable sentiment and wideopen chords rather than anything potentially challenging. It turns out like something your friend might leave in your car that you don't mind skipping around on occasionally but would never bring up in conversation; and, though that method might very well turn a person on to the Submarines or something its intended purpose, one presumes it's not an especially good calling card for any of the upandcomers here the way Garden State hipped a lot of people to, alas, Frou Frou.It's telling that nearly all of the nonlive music played in Nick and Norah comes from MP3 players and burned CDs, rather than commerciallyavailable physical products like this very soundtrack; the movie seems to be urging folks towards music discovery through conversation and keeping an open ear, but the fact remains that this is a group of tracks in a set running order available on such unplaylistable formats like that vinyl the kids keep on buying. It all just seems so antithetical to the film it's supposedly attached to; Nick might've burned this sucker once and popped it in his car, but he would've also started almost immediately on the next installment, and that's not something having a physically released soundtrack makes any deference to.And, hey, maybe round two's coming; there was great music aplenty in the film, from the National and Modest Mouse and Tapes 'n Tapes, that doesn't appear on this soundtrack, and the reasons for the inclusion of, say, Paul Tiernan's sorta hokey \"How to Say Goodbye\" and not \"Insistor\" are unclear. One has to wonder what exactly the point of a soundtrack like this is in 2008, where folks could just as easily download the songs even the ones, gasp, that didn't make it to the disc for the jumpoffs of their own infinite playlists. For this product to have relevance commercially or otherwise, the songs on it have to matter, and with the exception of a great Vampire Weekend tune and some frequently great (justsohappenstobeindie)pop, it doesn't matter enough not to just burn yourself. "}