{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12607/homepage_large.4d23021a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Deerhoof","title":"Offend Maggie","text":" So Deerhoof, crazy band, right? Lots of weird tics, artschool tropes, music theory indulgences and yet the San Francisco quartet has steadily veered closer to accessibility the past of couple years. Not that any of their albums ever logically followed each other, but in three years they've managed to custom fit Satomi Matsuzaki's screwy vocals with honesttogod melodies (Milk Man), consistently tug at heartstrings with those melodies (The Runners Four), and then wrap that package into slick, replicable threeminute pop structures (Friend Opportunity). What more can you ask for from a rock band?Well, how about bigger guitars? With newly added guitarist/multiinstrumentalist Ed Rodriguez on board, the band recaptures the dual guitar interplay of previous albums and then some. I'm not talking about nambypamby prog fiddling, either; there's legit Pete Townshendstyle windmilling here, from the \"Rockin' Me\" bite on opener \"The Tears and Music of Love\" to the Chuck Berry seventh chords that propel the \"Fresh Born\" verses. Inevitably, Satomi gets intertwined in all this, yet never lost. There's still a melodic quality to Maggie, and it can still sound pretty and coherent at times, but the album's heartbeat is sixstringed and often distorted. Don't worry though, Deerhoof haven't pulled the plug on their pop tangent. They're just folding their canon on itself, taking the songwriting tricks they've learned during the last handful of albums and applying them to a raw rock aesthetic somewhere between Reveille and Apple O'.Deerhoof's never fully taken the plunge into electronics, but Maggie's trace amounts of technolalia are egregious. The album's all fretboard, no circuit board, and it feels most comfortable that way. Removed from the grid, the band's music follows a much more organic path, and it's interesting to note how seemingly scattershot bleeps and bloops on prior releases actually kept the songs relatively grounded. The album's second half best demonstrates this, its song structures vinelike, twisting and turning rather than firing off/on like a transistor. The dual guitar lines sneak up on each other in \"Numina O\" and closer \"Jagged Fruit\", and even if listeners have no clue what's coming next, they never get the feeling they're about to get suckerpunched.Satomi follows suit, projecting a very biological and terrestrial sound. Past allusions to time travel, robots, and outer space are replaced with themes of the flesh as Maggie covers \"The Tears and Music of Love\", \"Family of Others\", \"Fresh Born\", and even basketball. Also, while Satomi's voice hasn't deepened any, she certainly sounds less like a hyperglycemic/hyperactive little girl and more sage. Her vocal phrases are at their longest and most reserved here, patiently straddling the lead guitar of \"Chandelier Searchlight\" or Middle Eastern tumble of \"Buck and Judy\" for several measures before delivering a payoff hook. And though she often sings lockstep with Rodriguez and Dieterich, it's not the same handholding as Reveilleera Deerhoof. Satomi may sing in unison with the guitars, but she also shows the ability to establish mood. Her opening line, \"Tell me about your purple past,\" on \"My Purple Past\" is at once both curious pillow talk and hardboiled interrogation, and the song's coy chorus only leaves you feeling less at ease.Despite these adjustments, Maggie is hardly a new animal within the Deerhoof canon. It's got all sorts of earmarks, from the token Greg Saunier Beach Boys homage \"Family of Others\" to the irritating hopscotch cadence of \"Basket Ball Get Your Groove Back\", this album's Shaggslike \"Kidz Are So Small\" or \"Dog on the Sidewalk\". And even with all its perfectly nailed midtempo ballads, which filled the gooey center of the past two 'hoof releases, Maggie balks at the chance to make your knees go wobbly, keeping its allure strictly intellectual and technical rather than hotblooded. That ethos isn't going to win a lot of hugs and kisses from fans or nonfans, but Maggie never asks for more than a firm, professional handshake, the kind of appreciation it more than deserves. "}