{"label":" TSM","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12615/homepage_large.f95ea7dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Secret Machines","title":"Secret Machines","text":" It wasn't the grandiosity that made so much prog rock unfashionable; it was the pomposity. How can you take seriously any band that takes itself so seriously? Not that Secret Machines don't take themselves seriously. Indeed, glimmers of Roger Waters the most famously nofun and pompous name in prog have always been in the group's songs. But fortunately, Secret Machines have also recognized that a rock band needs first and foremost to actually rock, and although they can represent Pink Floyd at their most pofaced, they are also fueled by the muscular thump of Led Zeppelin.Zeppelin were, of course, powerful enough to get away with multipart musical marathons and prodigious interplay while still avoiding the prog tag. Following that lead, Secret Machines have even got their own John Bonhamlike anchor in drummer Josh Garza. Yet it's not Garza's presence that initially dominates this selftitled third album but the absence of Benjamin Curtis, who left Secret Machines last year, leaving Garza and brother Brandon Curtis behind. Surely his departure necessitated a slight rethinking of the group's musical strategy, and indeed the group's injected a good deal of Scary Monstersera David Bowie's frayed artglam, among other elements, to good effect. Yet Secret Machines remain the same band responsible for Now Here Is Nowhere and Ten Silver Drops, which means the toughest tracks often still devolve into hypnotic grooves and motorik mutations, and the gentlest starts often lead to the most bombastic conclusions. Curtis has been replaced by Phil Karnats, whose guitar is often used as an almostsynth like effect layered on top of the group's menacing melodies and pulsing beats. It's an interesting balance, lending even relatively short tracks such as \"Atomic Heels\" (with its hints of \"Diamond Dogs\") and \"Underneath the Concrete\" the feel of epics. When the band does up the run time, as with the nearly eightminute \"Have I Run Out\", the results justify the indulgence. And when Garza's doubletime syncopation, Brandon Curtis' keys, and Karnats' guitar synthesize into a series of squelches and searing sounds, it makes for hypnotic spacerock. But Secret Machines can do mellow, too, at least to a degree, as demonstrated by highlight \"Now You're Gone\", which begins more meditative and stripped down before the oppressive arrangements kick in. But here they're allowed to breath, almost floating above and around Garza's gallop until the song hits its inevitable concluding crescendos. \"The Walls Are Starting to Crack\" pulls off a similar trick while at the same time tipping its hat to the band's prog predecessors more than ever (and directly, too, not via some circuitous Radiohead route). You can hear Pink Floyd, but also King Crimson, even Van Der Graaf Generator, a nice set up for \"I Never Thought to Ask\", a pretty ballad that splits the difference between Hunky Dory and The Final Cut. With \"The Fire Is Waiting\", the band finally gets to cut loose with a fullon 11minute blowout full of Godzillasized riffs and quiet interludes. The song's length, especially as it transitions to otherworldly hums and drones, provides the perfect opportunity to ruminate: sure, it's grandiose, but is it pompous? Do Secret Machines cross that line? Well, yeah, probably, they do. With its apocalyptic portent, Secret Machines demands to be taken seriously. But at least the music ambitious, scary, inspiring, rousing matches the sentiment. Secret Machines are serious about what they do, and until more bands find ways to balance pop, prog, and booming hard rock as well as the Machines do on \"Last Believer, Drop Dead\", that pomposity can be forgiven as just part of the whole package. "}