{"label":" Beta-Lactam Ring","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12618/homepage_large.b0bea5b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Eyeless in Gaza","title":"Summer Salt & Subway Sun","text":" England's Martyn Bates and Peter Becker have been recording under the name Eyeless in Gaza for nearly 30 years. The duo formed in 1980, taking their name from an Aldous Huxley novel, and have since put together a body of work as remarkable for its consistent quality as its neartotal lack of mainstream recognition. They seem content to toil away in the shadows, though, working their unique postpunk niche in a way that sounds modern, yet somehow also very old. Their outoftimeness might account for some of their lack of recognition any time a trend comes along, there's a good chance they tired of it five years earlier. Case in point: On Summer Salt & Subway Sun they've nearly abandoned their occasional weirdfolk leanings in an era when weird folk music is hot property.The most immediately striking feature of this album is the incredible lengths to which BetaLactam Ring has gone to package the thing. It's a 2xCD set housed in a hinged, hardbound box with two slipcases inside, each solid enough to be their own packaging. There's also a lyric book, and the CDs have dust jackets to keep them from getting scratched. It's a display piece that seems ever the more lavish for appearing in the age of the mp3. The two discs, Summer Salt and Subway Sun, are stylistically similar simple sequencing seems to have been the sole determinant of what songs wound up where.Bates and Becker rarely employ anything approaching a full drum kit, and these pieces of music derive most of their rhythmic energy from guitars, electronics, and percussion programming. Bates' smooth and clear tenor leads us through the soundscapes with melodic authority, his vocal lines often turning in strange and unexpected ways as the arrangements shift below them. One of the most masterful compositions on either disc is \"Where Vivid Bloomed\", where the wash of synth that backs the initial verses surprisingly coalesces into a shimmering loop and modulates to a new key. It's a spinetingling moment where the band manage to wrench a strong emotional effect from a bed of entirely artificial sound, while simultaneously turning a static piece of music into something alive and urgent.There are passages on the record that have the feel of intergalactic drift, as small, pinging sounds float through dark, icy spaces the coda of \"All New\" would probably sound just as good soundtracking a planetarium presentation. The duo's instrumentals range from quiet, ghostly, ambient explorations to workouts for drum machine and minimalist guitar. Though their music is too distinctive to peg to any particular peers, they bear a sort of spiritual similarity to Bark Psychosis, Disco Inferno, Talk Talk, and the Durutti Column artists who similarly filled the air between genres but these guys have done it longer than any of those colleagues. This album is accessible and ultimately enveloping, a worthwhile addition to an already expansive body of work from two musicians who have only ever been interested in doing their own thing. "}