{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12622/homepage_large.84051029.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Margot and the Nuclear So and So's","title":"Animal!","text":" There is, indeed, a story in Margot and the Nuclear So and So's two yes, two new releases, or more specifically, a backstory. \"Intense panic attacks had made it difficult for me to leave the house,\" claims songwriter Richard Edwards. He also claims the material that came out of that isolation (admittedly, an isolation he shared with his bandmates, who all supposedly live in the same Indianapolis house) was originally intended for a concept album about the Heaven's Gate cult. Remember them? UFOs? Magic sneakers? Castration? Group suicide? Yeah, that one. The backstory continues: Unsatisfied with their Indiana sessions, the group relocated to Chicago to record with Brian Deck and came up with so much stuff the band and its new major label couldn't agree which songs would comprise the record. So a compromise of sorts was reached: The collection of songs the band preferred, Animal!, would get released on LP, and the collection of songs the label preferred, Not Animal, would get released on the same day digitally and on CD.That's a lot of backstory to sift through, and the more selfaggrandizing aspects of the group's collective personal and creative ordeal smells a bit like a stunt. After all, since when does an upstart indie band ever strongarm its big league partner into releasing not a double album, not two companion albums, but two mostly different versions of the same album at the same time? Then again, expectations have been relatively high for these perpetual next big things ever since 2006's The Dust of Retreat made them a kitchensink indie band to watch. Maybe Epic was simply willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. But as they say, let's go to the tape.Animal! is reportedly the band's chosen album, so that's the best place to begin. The album starts with \"At the Carnival\", an atmospheric artrock piece that features Edwards reaching his falsetto as high as comfortable, conveying maximum selfseriousness as it floats off into the ether. It's more mood setter than anthem, slowly easing you into the album, and while you've heard this kind of stuff before, Margot et al. do keep you on your toes with a surprise upbeat New Orleans brass interlude before going back to spookyville. \"O' What a Nightmare!\" is equally morose, featuring its own unexpected genre detour into the blues before getting back to the business of miserablism.  But the fact that \"Hello Vagina\" doesn't live up to its colorful name, sticking instead to the same ol' dull dreariness, unfortunately affirms mounting suspicions that, lo and behold, this album born of isolation and drama is yet another melancholy, selfimportant slog that mistakes insufferable earnestness for actual emotion.The clearest reference here is Radiohead, of course, but even Radiohead recognized that too much of this stuff can lead you straight into a dead end, at least in a sense that a deluge of rainy day murk can be a bit like banging your head against the brick wall. The death march gets more than a little overwhelming after a short while, making each track feel twice as long as it really is. It doesn't help that the band is not above a little shameless pilfering with the likes of \"Love Song for a Schubas Bartender\", \"A Children's Crusade on Acid\", \"German Motor Car\", and other lowrent cops from Thom Yorke and crew, the mood minimally tempered by some pat, bethedging chamber rock arrangements. At least the disc ends on a slightly lighter note, with \"As Tall as Cliffs\" a mix of rootsiness and Modest Mousey weirdness that finally hints at sun shining through the grey. Not Animal is more or less frontloaded with the five songs ported over from the parallel Animal! but \"A Children's Crusade on Acid\" and \"German Motor Car\" mark a much stronger starting point than where they fall on Animal! \"Broadripple Is Burning\" and \"Holy Cow!\" can coast on lazy chord progressions, but they're both brighter and catchier than much of Animal! as well, better positioning the reprise of \"Cold, Kind, and Lemon Eyes\", \"Hello Vagina\", and \"As Tall as Cliffs\" and setting the disc up for the concluding streak of five songs unique to this set. \"Real Naked Girls\" makes better, simpler use of the band's quirky arrangements, not to mention Edwards' falsetto cries. The frenetic \"Pages Written on a Wall\" is actually a little fun, in its own rollicking, riffwielding, universeexploding way, while the hooky \"The Shivers (I've Got 'Em)\" and \"The Ocean (Is Bleeding Salt)\" approach the poppier side of artrock. If the Beach Boys harmonies that adorn the final \"Hip Hop Hurray\" skirt distracting cliché, and Edwards has devolved from Yorkey anomie to Chris Martin soft rock, there's a silver lining of hopefulness to the track that leaves you open to more rather than relieved to have made it through. Without question, there's a stronger album to be made out of this overkill, especially as neither disc makes a total case for itself as a standalone release. One would have sufficed, but forced to choose, the advantage goes to Not Animal, which is smart (or at least commercially savvy) enough to drag some of the band's better songs out of the morass. Margot and the Nuclear So and So's might insist more (or at least more cohesive) misery is better, or even somehow more true or authentic, but Animal! tries so hard and lays it on so thick you're left gasping for air. Not Animal may in the end be no less fussy and overcomposed, but it shows you needn't wallow in the rain to appreciate the storm. "}