{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12627/homepage_large.9c2642da.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Ewing","artist":"Bob Dylan","title":"The Bootleg Series, Vol. 8: Tell Tale Signs: Rare and Unreleased 1986-2006","text":" There's often an understandable wariness when it comes to criticizing Bob Dylan for one thing, he's better at this words stuff than we are. For another, inscrutability is pretty much his career's one constant and trying to get into his head is a fool's errand. Each twist in the man's art leaves you scrambling to reassess the last. For instance, his brace of oldtime covers albums in the early 90s were decried as evidence that Bob's flush was finally busted the well was dry. Now it seems like they were the work of a craftsman reacquainting himself with some of his most basic tools before putting them to more remarkable use. How to put his work into context? The Bootleg Series is your best starter kit. Tell Tale Signs is the eighth volume in Dylan's anthology of discards, alternate takes, and live performances, this time offering an alternative path through his last two decades' work. The series presents itself as an appendix, but it's more like a glossary offering crucial insight and definition. And if that sounds too dry, rest assured there's also some astonishing music here. If a critic can't write Dylan off, there's a temptation to go in the other direction: This collection's remit starts with 1989's Oh Mercy, hailed at the time as a staggering return to form. Now it sounds relatively clumsy, its reverbheavy production straining to fit Dylan into a modern rock mold. But the songs were there, and Tell Tale Signs is thick with tracks from this period, casting it in a far richer light. The familiar is transformed: \"Most of the Time\", a vista of shimmery regret on Oh Mercy, becomes a delightfully rueful acoustic bounce lent extra warmth and wistfulness by its staccato harmonica. \"Dignity\" shows up as a weighty piano ballad and as a jaunty fullband outing that brings out the humor in the song I like that version more, but if there's one thing this collection tells you, it's that \"definitive\" with Dylan is a trick of the release schedule. So is it even possible to speak generally about \"late Dylan\"? It seems to me that his most recent period, the late flowering that kicked off with Time Out of Mind in 1997, has seen a shift in his approach. While the cluster of live tracks here demonstrate that he's still very much a rock artist, as a songwriter he's returned to blues and folk, with their storyteller's structure of verses and refrains. In place of a chorus, Dylan's songs often have a payoff that each verse winds its way towards and some of the joy is in following that imagetrail to the repeated endpoint. The payoff refrain accumulates effect in different ways on \"Dignity\" it's ramming a point home, on \"Mississippi\" it's a resigned reminder that the narrator keeps on screwing up. On several tracks its inevitability brings the whole song an air of predestination, and the payoff has the weight of Judgement on it. \"High Water (For Charley Patton)\" here in a fierce live version ends each verse with a cry of \"High water everywhere!\", the repetition making Dylan's catastrophic vision more and more encompassing. \"High Water\" fits Tell Tale Signs' overall mood one of barfly eschatology, smokily rambling halfstories of lust and loss, and a dash of apocalypse, told with a chuckle that's halfway to a death rattle. The vibe crosses eras and musical tracks the rich production on \"Dreamin' of You\" is a gothic heathaze; the brisk \"Tell Ol' Bill\" conjures the bonerattling spirit of Tom Waits but it holds the set together with mordant wit, making the record far more than a grabbag. Listeners who bridle even at Dylan's 60s voice should, however, stay well away: This set shows the instrument in its progressive collapse into rheum and ruin. But only in terms of tone: When it comes to fitting voice to material, or threading the audience through a song, or capturing a lifetime's lessons in a twist of inflection, he's still one of the world's best. Take the outstanding \"Red River Shore\", for instance: Dylan's voice is a halting croak throughout this tale of obsessive, mystical love, but his phrasing is impeccable, comfortable switching from the highflown to the vernacular in the space of a line, and drifting between emphatic certainty and querulous doubt as it becomes clear that the girl or Dylan himself may be a spectre. As the stately Latin music swells and strengthens, Dylan weakens, and by the song's end he sounds older than ever. Of course, Dylan has a vested interest in sounding ancient: The last 15 years have seen him reengaging not just with his own craft, but with the roots and history of American song, becoming one of its most prominent flamekeepers with his \"Theme Time Radio Hour\" show. My favorite track of all here is a tender reading of a Jimmie Rodgers tune, \"Miss the Mississippi\", gentle and direct in its sentiment: Dylan has never been afraid to be corny when it suits him. And the debt his own music owes to the past has never been clearer: Sometimes on Tell Tale Signs he comes on like a brokedown transmitter, singing in epigrams, the disconnected and cryptic verses he's always used sounding like snippets of a thousand imaginary oldtime songs. Nourishing and engrossing in a way a Greatest Hits album couldn't be, Tell Tale Signs is a testament to Bob Dylan's love of music as well as his continued mastery in crafting it. "}