{"label":" Definitive Jux","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12650/homepage_large.aee1af7b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"The Mighty Underdogs","title":"Droppin' Science Fiction","text":" \"Corny\" is a loaded term. Most of the time when someone complains about rap being corny, it's because it's not \"street\" enough, or doesn't take itself seriously, or is otherwise lighthearted those aren't signs that something's going to be unlistenable bullshit. Most of the stuff that SolesidescumQuannum dropped in the late 90s/early 00s, for instance, was almost completely devoid of anything that could be considered threatening by hiphop fans' parents except maybe the warnings of lyrical destruction. But it was created by MCs who were charismatic, agile lyricists with authoritative voices, backed by DJs and producers who had enough of an ear for funk to counter any potential granola tendencies with the shit that got heads nodding. But damn, the Mighty Underdogs are corny. And that's kind of startling, given their component parts: Gift of Gab killed it enough on the last three Blackalicious albums that his name's still an automatic positive, and Lateef the Truth Speaker has been scarce enough in recent years (Maroons aside) that the opportunity to hear him over the course of more than a dozen tracks should be welcome. Throw in an underheard but promising producer in Headnodic (of Crown City Rockers), and you've got yourself a potential backpacker supergroup. But Droppin' Science Fiction isn't the lyrical throwdown that you'd expect from the voices behind classics like \"You Didn't Know That Though\" or \"The Wreckoning\", unless those voices decided that they could stand to be a lot goofier. This is an unusually awkward record, one that pushes the nonthreatening bboy routine past goodnatured lightheartedness into cloying silliness. You could chalk up some of the album's flaws to its gimmicky concept tracks that run on obvious premises: there's the Bmovie horror story (\"Monster\"); the Wild West showdown (\"Gunfight\"); the outerspace extraterrestrial rocketship arglebargle (\"Science Fiction\"); the whimsical travelogue (\"ILL Vacation\"); the she'shotbutshe'saslut sex jam (\"Aye\"). None of these concepts are new, but making them as broad and schticky as possible brings these cuts down. It's embarrassing to hear Gab try to sound like a grizzled old cowboy or a bellowing mad scientist; he seems to be shooting for a more eccentric take on his usual genial battlerap style, but he winds up sounding as if he's sitting down to read picturebook stories to second graders. Lateef, meanwhile, just seems out of place, maintaining his usual coolheaded firespitting focus while everything around him turns into Velveeta. It might be more tolerable if Headnodic dialed down his production just a bit, but with rare exceptions, it's all elbowribbing Muppetry, a frivolous collection of \"Brady Bunch\" funk, and HannaBarbera dopiness that makes Danger Mouse's beats on The Mouse and the Mask sound like Liquid Swords. The fact that this dorkiness has enveloped a few usuallyonpoint guests (MF Doom, Mr. Lif & Akrobatik, DJ Shadow) is unfortunate enough; that it's being perpetrated by two MCs who've been consistently great since the early to mid90s just makes it more frustrating. They both still have the ability to string together tight phrases and taut internal rhymes, and on those rare tracks where they tackle more serious material (the Julian and Damian Marleyaugmented ghetto lament \"So Sad\"; the neglectedlove apology \"Want You Back\") or focus on straightforward rappingaboutrapping (\"Victorious\"), you're reminded why you liked them in the first place. But you'll need all the reminders you can get, and Droppin' Science Fiction doesn't have too many instead, it's the hiphop equivalent of a slapstick prop comic mugging for the camera. "}