{"label":" Perishable","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1226/homepage_large.d4ea313d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Califone","title":"Sometimes Good Weather Follows Bad People","text":" Upon learning that Nancy Kerrigan's Olympic dreams had been dashed by the unforgiving crowbar of Jeff Gilooly, a famous rabbi posed the following question to God: \"If you, God, are so great, then why do bad things happen to good people? That is, if God is so good, why evil? Shant Nancy have been spared the rod?\" Although ordinarily fairly reflective and considerate, God, in this instance, wasn't much for patience or tact. \"Kushner,\" he replied, \"are you fucking daft?\" Only then did the rabbi realize his error Kerrigan, in fact, was not good. No, Kerrigan was a bitch God knew it, the rabbi knew it, hell, even Gilooly knew it. She got what was coming to her. Picking up on the rabbi's apparent dilemma, Califone hath chosen for its newest album title the converse of that age old conundrum. Yes, bad things happen to good people, but what about the demonic among us? What about the Hitlers, the Linda Tripps, the Big Poppa Lou Pearlmans? What about them? According to Califone, even minions like Tripp and Pearlman share in the bounty. This claim, however, obviously lacks substance. Because as much as good weather may follow bad people, it also clearly follows some really good people, as evidenced by the band's own career. The Chicagobased ambient neofolk band Califone was formed way back in the late 90s by two musicians (Brian Deck and Tim Hurley) and two pasta dishes, Rutili and Massarella, and rose from the ashes of another respected Chicago bluesrock outfit, Red Red Meat. Subsequent to that band's breakup, the four remaining members pulled a Voltron and came back hard, but with a new and innovative musical approach: blending southwestern Americana, blues, and bleak, rugged folk with updated, atmospheric percussion and drum programming. The result was at once unique and compelling. Good Weather Follows Bad People is the condensed, environmentally friendly reissue of Califone's first two critically acclaimed EPs, with the addition of two unreleased bonus tracks. The first seven tracks are drawn from Califone's selftitled 1998 debut EP for the defunct indie label Flydaddy. Among the highlights are... well, all of them. Yes, each of these seven are damn near golden, including the damp, bassheavy opener, \"On the Steeple with the Shakes,\" the punchy, rustic folk of \"Silvermine Pictures,\" and the lonely, emotive distance and sparseness of the guitar and piano riffing on \"Dime Fangs.\" Tracks 812 are culled from the band's second EP, a 1999 Road Cone effort. The EP was less mood and compositionoriented than the debut, actually employing discernable songwriting elements like hummable choruses and bridges, as on \"St. Martha Let It Fold\" and the quasipop of \"Beneath the Yachtsman.\" Still, though, the same innovative approach remained, solidified by Rutili's restrained and expressive vocal grit. Being as it is a rerelease, the question for fanatics is whether the two bonus tracks are enough to warrant another purchase. The answer for fanatics is no, they're not. One of them is a retread of \"To Hush a Sick Transmission,\" already the least listenable track on the debut EP. The closer is \"When the Snakehandler Slips,\" a dark, aggressive, fullband tune featuring more tempo and fuzzy distortion in everything vocals, guitar, and bass. It's a decent track, but by no means indispensable. Newcomers, on the other hand, will find Good Weather to be a perfect starting point. "}