{"label":" IAMSOUND","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12654/homepage_large.40772aa0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Telepathe","title":"Chrome's On It EP","text":" With only a handful of singles and EPs to their name and a tendency towards frequent genre overhauls, it hasn't been easy to discern exactly where Telepathe is coming from. On their early recordings, the Brooklynbased group which has entertained a rotating cast of contributors around core bandmembers Busy Gangnes and Melissa Livaudais aimed for droney experimentalism (typified on 2006's Farewell Forest EP) before trying on a delicate strain of funereal pop for \"I Can't Stand It\", the band's gorgeous contribution to Rare Book Room's Living Bridge compilation. Recently though, Telepathe has drawn inspiration from Hot 97style club bangers and propulsive techno, and the group's current incarnation represents a shift towards haunted, beatheavy electro pop.Chrome's On It is an EP that features two new tracks (the title cut and \"Bells\") arranged by Telepathe and Don Caballero's Eric Emm. It serves both as an official introduction to the band's rejiggered formula and a primer for Dance Mother, their long awaited, David Sitekproduced LP set for release in early 2009. The record also offers several remixes of each song by notable knob twiddlers such as Diplo's Mad Decent crew and Frankmusik, and it feels like Telepathe is using the release to drive home the point that, as of now at least, the band is making club music, albeit of the leftfield sort.Both original songs are fascinating and, in many ways, sound like the work of a completely different band than the one that recorded \"I Can't Stand It\" less than a year ago. \"Chrome's On It\" rides elliptical drum patterns and distorted, squeaking synths before coopting a Cash Money machinegun beat about a minute in. \"Bells\", meanwhile, sounds simultaneously ghostly and danceable, its pallbearer vocals set apart from a reverselooped rhythm that still manages to lurch forward. And despite the material's complicated production (dozens of tracks are stacked upon each other in each song), both cuts lend themselves well to reinterpretation, their individual bits easily unglued and reaffixed at different points for different outcomes.\"Chrome's On It\" is remixed here by Mad Decent, L.A. spazpop outfit the Mae Shi, and British vocalist/producer Frankmusik. And surprisingly it's the Mae Shi who make the most of the track. Their version fashions a new chorus by chopping Gangnes' and Livaudais' vocals into smaller parts and places them above a highenergy electrohouse beat and catchy syncopated drums. For a guitarbased band that specializes in noisy outbursts, it's a very accomplished slice of melodic techno. The disc's \"Bside\" offers reimaginings of \"Bells\" by electrofunk/postpunk duo Free Blood as well as Bobby Evans, the beatmaker for L.A. hip hoppers Brother Reade. The former's offering is superior, turning the song into a seedy, slowbuilding dirge with screeching guitars upping the spookiness factor.More than anything, Chrome's On It announces Telepathe's capacity for exciting, eccentric dance music and emphasizes their love of the beat. Judged as a complete entity, the EP only lags because of its selfimposed repetitiveness one's patience for consecutive variations on the same template doesn't endure repeated listens and a few lackluster remixes. The Mad Decent contribution (which, perhaps tellingly, doesn't have Diplo's name specifically attached to it) is the real disappointment; the track seems unable to decide between worldly ghettotech and subterranean dubstep and never really takes off as a result. I would argue that Chrome's On It would have been more potent (and listenable) had the band decided to trim the fat, keeping only the Mae Shi and Free Blood reinterpretations alongside its two original pieces. But despite this bit of bloat, the best tracks here are quite strong and hint that the anticipated Dance Mother might be as good as we hope it will be. "}