{"label":" Dangerbird","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12656/homepage_large.e1d7f6e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Solarski","artist":"The Dears","title":"Missiles","text":" If the Dears sound a little deflated on this, their fourth fulllength offering, they certainly have that right. The creation of Missiles coincided with (and, it has been suggested, led to) the departure of fivesevenths of the band's most steady and successful lineup thus far. And while surviving Dears (and husband and wife) Murray Lightburn and Natalia Yanchak have since assembled a new sevenpiece ensemble, the mounting list of exDears on Wikipedia coupled with the Montreal act's relatively brief existence practically has these guys shifting at a Falllike pace. Quite a feat for a band that sounds so composed on record and isn't fronted by Mark E. Smith. What's more, Missiles marks a new relationship with yet another record label Silverlake, Californiabased Dangerbird meaning the Dears have parted ways with Bella Union abroad and, in these parts, Arts & Crafts, a label not exactly known for artist turnover. Given all this plus a few reportedly less than perfect tours and a succession of breakthroughs that never quite happened it comes as little surprise that Lightburn began a recent enewsletter to fans announcing the new record by admitting \"This could have been a message saying that the Dears is over.\"Well, the Dears are here to stay for now, and to their credit, they've managed to turn any misgivings they might have about setbacks over the years into their most consistent, and, in a number of ways, most accomplished release to date. It's not without its snags we'll get to those but Missiles is the sound of the Dears finding their footing again, picking their heads up, wiping their eyes, and pushing forward. And while by no means a knockout comeback, it's a record about coming back, at times hesitant and unsure, but frequently all the more engaging for it. Its thesis, as it were, is right there in the group backing vocal on opening track \"Disclaimer\": a repeated invitation to \"Come back.\"Musically, the Dears stay on point on Missiles. They've long excelled at atmosphere, and the tag \"cinematic\" stuck early and has since become adjectival shorthand for the band's sound. It applies here as well, though the group's sense of cinema feels more refined on the whole on the new record. Gone are the days when the Dears would tarnish a perfectly good song with an overcooked outro (see \"Never Destroy Us\" off No Cities Left) or indulge in multipart epics seemingly for their own sakes. Instead we get subtler touches: the dappled string bits on \"Lights Off\", the brief spray of static that serves as a bridge between \"Meltdown in A Major\" and closing slowburner \"Saviour\", and all sorts of wellemployed keyboard embellishments. Even the children's choir a red flagraiser if there ever was one is put to great use on that closing track. Sure, it's a pretty obvious move, but how better, sonically, to signify starting over?This newfound restraint sometimes works against the Dears, however. Missiles is a record largely without proper choruses, instead favoring songs that unfold gradually a linear approach rather than a cyclical one. Yet with a running time of nearly an hour, this means several tracks that meander and a couple crescendos that feel undeserved. Elsewhere, on \"Dream Job\", Lightburn sings, \"I know that sounds familiar/ 'Cause we've heard it all before,\" and that's certainly true later on \"Berlin Heart\", with its vocal melody too close for comfort to that of Radiohead's \"No Surprises\" (the same track is further hindered by a banjo that sounds out of place). Yet the overall sound on Missiles is, simply put, inviting. That's seldom more evident than on \"Demons\", a multipart miniepic that crams just about everything people love about the Dears into exactly five minutes, suggesting these guys may still have that knockout in them.On, then, to the real snag. Like pretty much every Dears record before it, Missiles is hampered to a significant degree by a number of fullon WTF lyrical moments. Aching ballad and title track \"Missiles\" takes on the difficult subject of racism, but any weight it may carry is abruptly shattered when Lightburn describes the song's antagonist as \"cool as a cucumber.\" On \"Lights Off\", Lightburn declares, \"Do us all a favor/ Admit the defeat,\" one of several instances where a syllable is awkwardly shoehorned in in deference to a song's meter. And you'd be hardpressed in any context to defend a line like (from \"Crisis 1 & 2\") \"It's a suicide mission that has us by the balls.\" Youch.These illadvised lyrical moments can be perplexing and occasionally frustrating given the amount of care manifest in the Dears' music, but in a strange way they speak to the band's major nonmusical strength: an earnestness decidedly lacking in today's indie landscape. It may be that Lightburn values honesty and straightforwardness above all else in his songwriting, even if that means the occasional cliché or corny conversational turn of phrase. And while there's still no excusing the \"balls\" line, overall even these lyrical shortcomings make a certain sense in light of the record's mood and theme. Indeed, anyone who has been down but decided to pick up again can probably relate: restoring any shattered dignity can wait it's all about getting on your feet first. And so, flaws aside, things are looking up for our Dears for the moment, something Lightburn seems to affirm by declaring, \"There will be a next time\" on \"Saviour\". But even if this should prove the final Dears release, it's a fitting farewell: a bittersweet march, slow and steady, off into the twilight. "}