{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12653/homepage_large.8874a39a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Mamiffer","title":"Hirror Enniffer","text":" Seattle's Mamiffer are as if Tori Amos went mute and postmetal. Faith Coloccia's piano is at the fore, yet it's grounded in pop simplicity. Behind her keys lie drums, small percussion, strings, acoustic and electric guitars, bits of vocals, and in general seemingly what was lying around. Coloccia's collaborators are labelmates from Hydra Head: threefourths of angular posthardcore outfit These Arms Are Snakes, Hozoji MathesonMargullis of the less contorted Helms Alee, and Aaron Turner of atmospheric metal giants Isis. These players are all unrecognizable here. Despite the oceanic distortion they summon, this is not an aggressive record.Not overtly so, anyway the pairing of piano with amplified noises often seems willfully odd. \"Suckling a Dead Litter\" wraps lovely piano ostinatos in industrial whistles and electric bass. Such background abrasions are distracting, but they also add context, relocating piano from its usual cloistered confines to, say, a steel mill. (Swedish experimental group Midaircondo have also utilized such juxtaposition.) There's something delightfully wrong about a redhot, My Bloody Valentineesque melody warbling over a naked piano. It's akin to the filmic device of calm foreground action with a catastrophe in the background.Such exploration of depth perception drives \"Black Running Water\". Diversions come and go the glassiness of what sounds like strings played sul ponticello; bagpipelike melodies; reverbed, gunshotlike drums like Mad Professor remixing Joy Division. Yet the piano remains stately, weaving geometric, Michael Nymanesque patterns. Such weathering of sonic storms makes the piano more poignant. It's frequently gorgeous; the distorted drone in \"Annwn\" hums like a giant vacuum cleaner, above which Coloccia unspools increasingly urgent filigrees.This record's experimentation is both to its benefit and detriment. It's a textural delight, but it's disjointed. The second track is a single tone that gradually expands into a haze of digital friction à la Nadja or the Angelic Process. The final track is a pianoless acoustic guitar/electric bass workout. While wellexecuted, neither track belongs. Yet such incongruity makes Hirror Enniffer interesting. The record doesn't mandate how to listen to it. Played loud, its distorted bass could blow heads off. Played softly, its piano makes a fine background. (Coloccia recently scored the film The Calm at the Edge of the Sea.) It's refreshing to hear piano stripped of its usual connotations vehicle for virtuosity, prop for pop vocals and instead presented just as an instrument. "}