{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12664/homepage_large.528c0a1a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Tobacco","title":"Fucked Up Friends","text":" Tobacco is the pseudonym of Tom Fec, architect of the reclusive (and frequently masked) Pittsburgh psychedelic pop outfit Black Moth Super Rainbow. Known for a tendency towards the peculiar (he recently made a mix for XLR8R.com entitled Songs To Get Killed in the Woods To and is rumored to produce tracks somewhere deep in the Pennsylvania forest), Tobacco employs oldfashioned electronic instrumentation such as analog synths and tape machines to create the hallucinatory sounds behind BMSR and his eponymous solo recordings. On Fucked Up Friends, his first companionless LP, Fec puts those toys to use for an effort that veers from his fulltime group's sunnybutwarped electronica and creeps towards a darker brand of instrumental hiphop.Displaying a knack for forceful beatdriven arrangements that were absent on BMSR's accomplished Dandelion Gum, Tobacco shows here that he can pull off capable leftfield hiphop, but as an album, Fucked Up Friends lacks focus and variety. On a large majority of the record's 16 tracks (roughly five too many), Tobacco offers only slight variations on the same formula: bend analog synths into twisted melodies and set those atop puddles of tape hiss and clattering, lofi boombox beats. It's an intriguing approach that yields a few great songs, but because of the glut of similar material, these standout tracks tend to get lost in a neutralizing fog of sameyness.Fucked Up Friends is at its best when Tobacco lets his beats thump hard, like on mechanical opener \"Street Trash\", which combines gritty ghettoblaster thuds with an industrial, enginerevving groove. Halfwaypoint overachiever \"Berries That Burn\" a track that starts on a stolen Boards of Canada astral hum before blasting off with aggressive drum patterns and pitchy siren synths also succeeds because of its beatcentric methodology. Friends' lone collaborative contribution comes courtesy of Definitive Jux rapper Aesop Rock as always, he's equal parts cleverness and eccentricity who lends rhymes to \"Dirt\", another strong cut. While the duet show offs each musician's singular talents, \"Dirt\" also brings into question the album's dearth of guest lyricists elsewhere (\"Hawker Boat\" is one of several tracks begging for an MC).Most frustrating, though, is Friends' excess weight; Tobacco seems unwilling to excise material that doesn't contribute to the record's overall vision. \"Hairy Candy\", for instance, is a perfectly decent track, but despite a fingersnapping rhythm, it's virtually identical to the psychedelic stuff on Dandelion Gum down to the vocodered chorus. Meandering latealbum tracks \"Little Pink Riding Hood\" and \"Tape Eater\" siphon energy away from earlier, stronger material and test the listener's patience with lazy Airlike lunar synths. Utterly pointless \"Get My Nails Did\" and \"\", meanwhile, comprise just 16 seconds of total album time and seem to exist only for their kooky track names.Ironically, these lackluster songs help to conjure an image of what a better Friends could have been namely a shorter LP or a potent EP keeping only the good bits. It's also surprising that Tobacco didn't consider a fullalbum collaboration with Aesop Rock or invite an assortment of visiting rappers to try on his beats as a traditional hiphop producer might. Any of those records would have likely garnered more fan interest and provided a more compelling bridge to the next BMSR fulllength.  "}