{"label":" Blocks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12666/homepage_large.c82e5fba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Final Fantasy","title":"Spectrum, 14th Century EP","text":" Once known mainly as the guy whose string arrangements made Arcade Fire's Funeral sound so damn epic, Owen Pallett has since sprinkled his pixie dust all over the place in the last three years, whether remixing Grizzly Bear and Stars or using his classical training to beef up releases from Picastro, Fucked Up, and Beirut. To top things off, the guy's just as awesome outside the studio, allocating a portion of his royalties to charity organizations, festivals, and struggling acts.Unfortunately, Final Fantasy, his quasisolo project, hasn't garnered him quite the same name recognition many of his collaborators enjoy. He Poos Clouds from 2006, his solid sophomore effort of stringladen pop, flew under most people's radars despite its catchy melodies and NES nostalgia. And now he returns with two new EPs. Being collaborative projects of a more conceptual nature, the limitededition Spectrum, 14th Century and Plays to Please provide few clues as to what Pallett's upcoming fulllength Heartland might sound like, and their experimental bent likely won't widen his fanbase. The releases do, however, attest to his technical expertise both behind the boards and behind the mic, allowing him to make the most of the source material.Recorded with members of Beirut, Pallett describes Spectrum as a bunch of \"fake field recordings.\" Peppered with chirping birds and croaking frogs from an outdoor recording session in Quebec, the songs definitely carry a Disney movie lilt. The askance melody on opener \"Oh Spectrum\" taps avantgarde jazz, and on moving standout track \"The Butcher\", even the memechecking line \"all their bases belong to us\" cuts straight to the soul. Beirut outfit Pallett's strings with horns, piano, and percussion straight from The Flying Club Cup, and the steel drums on \"Blue Imelda\", coupled with Pallett's forlorn delivery, extend the parallels.Plays to Please finds Pallett arranging and performing the songs of Toronto's Alex Lukashevsky, leader of the band Deep Dark United. Lukashevsky's material, written originally for a more strippeddown setting, owes a lot to pop standards and even classical and opera, elements Pallett is more than willing to play up. Recorded with a 35piece orchestra including Andrew Bird and the Hidden Cameras' Paul Mathew the ornate EP sounds built for Broadway, totally isolated from current indie trends. While certainly unique and well suited to Pallett's skill set, the added pomp inflates Lukashevsky’s sparse pathos to the point of novelty. Sure, the graphic lyrics and waltzy rhythm of \"Ultimatum\" resemble a swank Dresden Dolls, but tracks like the Yankee Doodle camp of \"Nun or a Bawd\" or \"Moodring Band\"'s emo via Andrew Lloyd Webber balladry just aren't that interesting outside a technical standpoint.So in sum, Pallett takes a sizeable step forward, then whimsically tiptoes back a bit. Spectrum matches the accessibility of He Poos Clouds then, with the help of Beirut's hired hands, offers Pallett's gems in a wider variety of flavors. Plays to Please isn't a stinker by any means, but its six songs feel like a music school exercise, and, no matter how compositionally engaging, they revisit Pallett's occasional tendency to take mediocre ideas and go nuts with instrumentation. Of course, with a creative motor like Pallett's, one's prone to the occasional vagary every so often, and considering we get three or four solid tracks to herald next year's Final Fantasy fulllength, who's to complain? "}