{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12668/homepage_large.dab85663.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Ben Folds","title":"Way to Normal","text":" Ben Folds has long attempted to mix unequal parts humor and romanticism. Indeed, sap and smarm have been the principal currencies of America's leading piano wise guy, at least since the pinnacle of Ben Folds Five's commercial success in 1998. Whatever and Ever Amen, the band's bestselling second album, broke Folds into the mainstream through \"Brick\", a tender, regretful ballad about a girlfriend's abortion. Of course, the album's next song and final single, the infamous \"Song for the Dumped\", slammed open, \"So you wanted to take a break? Slow it down some and have some space? Well fuck you, too.\" Likewise, on Folds' solo debut, 2001's Rockin' the Suburbs, a song about a woman's dependence on others right up to the pallbearers carrying her to her grave fails before a number about doing acid and climbing trees and another about Michael Jackson, Quiet Riot, and \"being male, middleclass, and white.\"On Way to Normal, Folds' third solo studio LP since Ben Folds Five broke up in 2000, he strives for that same imbalance and juxtaposition, pitting laments about missed opportunities with old lovers and failed communication in otherwise good relationships against quips about slashed basketballs and snide yuppies. This time, though, Folds' humor gets the best of his feelings. He does the whiny white boy thing he's always done yet again. It's just that, as he and we age, that coy condescension bullshit gets less charming than wearisome. On Way to Normal, Folds seems out for everybody: the baristas who only give him free coffee because he's rich, the rich who snub the struggling baristas, the male dog who ran away from him, the female dog who flipped out on the little guy. This go around, the humor only works when Folds directs his derision at himself, namely on the fuzzbass opener, \"Hiroshima (B B B Benny Hit His Head)\". As for the romance, the love tracks here are surprisingly impersonal and repetitive for Folds, who married his fourth wife between this album and the last. The old allure has soured or staled.Indeed, all too often, the jokes unintentionally fall against Folds here. He issues his grievances with a smartass certainty, rarely showing empathy or compassion for his characters or admitting that maybe it's his perspective that's skewed. He seems less interested in understanding others than denouncing them. In the process, he sounds silly, sad, and incredibly smug. He devotes an entire track to scoffing at unconventional healers (the psychic, acupuncturist, and chiropractor) before taking a stab at the yuppy cliques that use them one track later (the Anthropologie chain, coffee drinkers, yoga addicts: all on notice).On \"Brainwascht\", Folds rails against the former friend of an exlover who's written an ostensibly shitty onesided pop song about Folds' faults as a lover. Coupled with \"Bitch Went Nuts\", Folds sounds like the sort of mate who's convinced he's never been wrong. The track opens with an unfortunate parody of The Karate Kid's Mr. Miyagi detailing the reasons relationships fail. Apparently, women dump guys for trivial stuff. He's a bad fuck or a simple douche. Men dump women, though, because, as Folds exclaims, they're crazy: \"The bitch went nuts/ She photoshopped my face/ On to every boy who'd done her wrong.\" \"Errant Dog\", which calls a runaway male dog a bitch as Folds indulges his nasty habit of cussing when he has nothing better to do, makes the pianist sound like a dog beater, a litigious whiner, and mostly an asshole. Sure, maybe it's a joke, but like much of Way to Normal it's just not funny.In all fairness, Folds uses the errant dog simile to describe himself in \"You Don't Know Me\", the album's single and best song thanks in no small part to Regina Spektor's waifish vocal lines. That's only reflective of Way to Normal's other missed opportunities, though. What's most unfortunate about the male, upperclass, and white content of Way to Normal is that it's tied to some of Folds' strongest postFive compositions yet. Aside from the spokenword intro, \"Bitch Went Nuts\" is a musical gem, its clangorous piano bounding headlong into a perfect instrumental break. Too bad it's almost impossible to overlook the song's lyrics. Similarly, \"Cologne\" is a gorgeous love song with Reinhold Messnerstyle strings at least until Folds decides to mention the astronaut who drove to Florida wearing diapers. Folds has always been at his best telling stories in his own smirking way. On Way to Normal, the stories sort of make you wish he'd see a shrink already. "}