{"label":" Standard","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12684/homepage_large.fffe1011.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"J. Matthew Gerken, Christian Kiefer, and Jefferson Pitcher","title":"Of Great and Mortal Men: 43 Songs for 43 U.S. Presidencies","text":" Politically and musically, it's the perfect time for Of Great and Mortal Men, a 3xCD anthology on which  J. Matthew Gerken, Christian Kiefer, and Jefferson Pitcher write songs for each of the 43 U.S. presidents. Tomorrow, of course, marks the symbolic end of an interminable election cycle that began in earnest with Barack Obama and John McCain's speeches at their parties' 2004 conventions, and has since permeated all corners of American life. Indie rockdom itself is more than ripe for this sort of endeavor, in which the civicminded children's theatre of Sufjan Stevens' Illinois is blended with currently popular sounds of sepiatoned Americana. Obama announced his candidacy in Lincoln's hometown, while McCain compared him to Herbert Hoover: If there were a time for a folk song about Benjamin Harrison and the tariff flap, it's now. More importantly is what this collection represents: When the electorate is seemingly more engaged with battleground states than, well, reallife battlegrounds, it's important to consider, as Of Great and Mortal Men does, that the dominant narratives we're given are woefully incomplete stories.Though it goes against every fiber of my critical being, I have to award this project significant points for effort. It took shape as Gerken, Kiefer, and Pitcher's effort to write 14 songs in 28 days for the fawm.org website, and quickly expanded to writing 42 songs during February 2006, saving our current leader for last, and with the promise of a new song for tomorrow's victor (we'll hope there's not a line about the Supreme Court or whatever Diebold is calling itself these days). The trio brought in dozens of collaborators to flesh out the demos, and the collection's most recommendable trait is its variety of tone from the postrock muscle of the James K. Polk entry (assisted by Austin band Monahans), to the shaggy Crazy Horse riffing on the second Grover Cleveland piece, which follows the banjofolk first effort. Rosie Thomas lends a jazzinspired vocal to the Jimmy Carter number \"A Great Beam of Light\", and James Jackson Toth adds sepuchral ambience to Kiefer's Lincoln portrait, on which he pulls lyrics from his two inaugural addresses and Gettysburg remarks. Indianapolisbased Standard Recording Company packaged the final set with an booklet (hardback would have been much better, but also no doubt prohibitively expensive) containing lyrics and original commissioned artwork for each President, but that's not all: There's a blog as well, which includes production narratives and even advice for educators seeking to use the collection in the classroom.All this would be as worthless as a yard sign on November 5 if the music weren't good, and for the most part, it is. This isn't the Capitol Steps, folks: True to its name, Of Great and Mortal Men underscores the fact that even the most lionized American political icons are made of flesh and bone, subject to strange fates and prone to making massive mistakes only visible in rearview mirrors. Many of these songs are imagined deathbed confessionals masking clever historical revisionism: Kiefer's George Washington, who elementary school history tells us never lied, divulges that \"those dumb asses believed me,\" while a trumpet solo by Cake's Vincent DiFiore lends a nice touch of Colonial ambience. Califone was brought in to arrange and perform Kiefer's \"Such a Marvelous Dream\", in which Ronald Reagan recalls his term in office as a movie role through the haze of dementia, and they also lend a surreal soundscape to Andrew Jackson's defense of his Native American ethnic cleansing: \"And I did it and they stood in the way of God's whole plan.\" Bill Callahan's signature baritone is perfect for historical storytelling, and his performance on the John Tyler song \"In Hindsight\" is one of the collection's finest.The music on Great and Mortal is solemn but never blandly reverent, and frequently detours into harrowing territory. Pitcher's approach to John Quincy Adams is as stark as his Ralph Stedmaninfluenced watercolor in the booklet: \"The icy water runs through the night and awaits my warm skin. Before the rising sun, I will bare all and enter the Potomac.\" Magnolia Summer contributes accordion, violin, and lapsteel to the surprisingly uptempo William McKinley offering, written from the perspective of his anarchist assassin, who asserts, \"Let Emma Goldman be the judge of me.\" Pitcher allows a distant voice to recite reconstituted notes from one of William Howard Taft's aides, recounting the mundane horrors of the President missing a golf outing due to contracting gout. Xiu Xiu's Jamie Stewart contributes eerie vocals to the collection's chilliest number, a stark postGreat War narrative seemingly written from the perspective of a veteran. New York singersongwriter Reid Maclean gets the collection's most resonant line, written by Pitcher about bachelor James Buchanan, whose presidency ended in 1861: \"A war it will come to bury lonely me\". The most successful works here are those that stay in an impressionistic pocket, eliding too much detail and staying off the soapbox. Gerken is the most frequent transgressor in this regard, using cited quotations like a term paper (from his Harding song: \"'An army of pompous phrases, moving across the landscape, in search of an idea,' said Bill McAdoo\"), and drawing tenuous connections to the current moment, like noting that Martin Van Buren's wife was \"scrubbed from existence in an early attempt to create history simply with talking points\". It should be noted that one of the record's best moments, however, does deal with decidedly nonpolitical material. Called \"Zinger\", Kiefer's ode to James Madison is a tongueincheek, Sufjanesque paean to First Lady Dolly, now \"known to every sticky fingered chubby from sea to shining sea.\"A bit like \"Zinger\" feels exceedingly appropriate at the current moment, as do Gerken's bloglike minor polemics. We're staring down the most important election in a generation, and are exhausted because it's also the most widely documented and thoroughly narrativized, with a film about our current president in theaters before he leaves office and voters asked to make decisions about the next leader of the free world based on hockeycoaching résumés, the words of wouldbe plumbers, and a candidate's middle name. Bush II has frequently noted that his term in office will be vindicated by historians a century hence, but here's hoping that Kiefer, Pitcher, and Gerken's minibiography figures into that story: \"We don't need the strength of the world's great minds. We'll just say we're right\". Crowdsource this: Whether the trio's final entry is about a frequently downed pilot who married rich or a skinny halfKenyan who mines rhetorical gold is crucially, in the end, up to us. "}