{"label":" Perishable","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1230/homepage_large.ca089770.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Califone","title":"Deceleration Two","text":" The other night, NPR ran a feature on one of the world's oldest living cinema pianists. I'd wager that perhaps not a single person reading this site has ever been to a cinema where a real, live piano player sat and soundtracked a silent film as it played. The practice pretty much ended in the 30s, as silent films died and gave rise to their talking descendents. You can imagine how progressive it must have seemed in the late 1920s when moviegoers were first able to see Al Jolson moving his mouth on screen while simultaneously hearing his voice from intheater speakers. As it became possible in the early 30s to record sound directly to film thus eliminating synching issues that had plagued early \"talkies\", as they were known film scoring gave way entirely to the process we're familiar with today: a score is composed, recorded and subsequently dubbed into the film's audio track (and, of course, marketed as an album and sold in tandem with the film). Those early cinemas with their pianos by the stage faded into quaint memories, along with most of the performers who worked there every night, highlighting the drama, the comedy, and the romance that played out on the screen above them. Decades upon decades later, in an entirely new century, the idea of having musicians in the room performing a score while you watch a movie is an almost completely foreign one. Prerecorded scores are now the only accompaniment we're accustomed to, and as such, the idea of people improvising to a film feels progressive all over again. But throwback or no, Califone's Deceleration series (the band issued One last year) is an eminently worthwhile project, comprising the band's live, improvised scores to short films created by acquaintances.Deceleration One was a fantastically powerful recording, cinematic in an altogether different sense. And though its followup was recorded at the same time as the original (February 2002) as well as the circumstances surrounding its recording it's a very different beast, favoring steadier rhythm and much busier accompaniment. Whereas Deceleration One scored a series of film loops and Ladislaw Starewicz's short film The Mascot, and its general tone could best be described as largely ambient, this album functions as the score to three distinct films (Brent Green's Francis, Jeff Economy's Fireworks (No Mail Days Are Sad Days), and Alla Navimova's Salome), which allows for a wider diversity in sound. Of these films, Francis is the only one I've actually seen, thanks primarily to its inclusion as a multimedia track on Califone's most recent proper fulllength, Quicksand/Cradlesnakes. Its score, a wildly percussive piece of music, opens this disc, marking an instant departure from the elegiac tones of Deceleration One. The warm, swelling synths and squawking guitars that found their way onto much of the last record are present, but the mood is like none the band has committed to tape before; though initially accompanied by tribal drums, the sixminute piece eventually morphs into a fantastic R&B; groove, then back into another polyrhythmic drum freakout, and finally departs with only the gentle buzzing of a synthesizer or two. The three pieces performed for Economy's Fireworks (No Mail Days Are Sad Days), meanwhile, are fiercely, stubbornly chaotic almost brutal at points especially for a soundtrack to something with such a whimsical title. Your enjoyment of these pieces will be a direct reflection of your tolerance for crunching bursts of noise, outright lack of structural contour, and gratuitous space echo. It's a freakish pile of piano, amplifier noise, cymbal, found object percussion, and other assorted slop that never seems to arrive at any apex or reach any particular destination. The album's second half, though, makes it all worth sitting through. I imagine Salome to be a beautiful film, if the music is any indication. The piece is split into twelve tracks, but flows seamlessly from point to point, settling into softly whirring synth and mandolin eddies, and bursting forth in rushes of shimmering noise with incredible, telepathic grace. The band even puts the funk hammer down on a breathtaking section called \"She Dances\", guitars scratching away with wah pedals to the metal, posing all kinds of intriguing questions as to what could happen if Califone grafted their signature junkyard folk onto this chassis. Obviously, widely distributed films aren't like to see live scores these days, but with their Deceleration series, Califone have made a hell of a case for, at the very least, using live improvisation as a method of composing scores. Anyone who digs Pink Floyd's early soundtrack work (especially More), is almost sure to love this stuff, and the Salome section is one of the most outright enjoyable pieces of improvised music I've ever heard. Film music rarely gets more dynamic or challenging than this. "}