{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12885/homepage_large.8d09cba1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Fuck the Facts","title":"Disgorge Mexico","text":" As their name implies, Fuck the Facts can be hard to grasp. (Even Amazon is conflicted about whether to spell the band's name with the full expletive.) Their moniker comes from a Naked City song, and the band is similarly freewheeling. One foot stays in grindcore, but the other plays a game of Twister with electronics, noise, and feints at jazz. Over the band's 10year history, it has amassed an astonishingly lengthy discography comprising dozens of splits, singles, EPs, and fulllengths. With a revolving door of personnel totaling eight exmembers, the band's sound has mutated in an ad hoc fashion. Current vocalist Mel Mongeon, a woman with a man's growl, and increasingly powerful production have stabilized the band somewhat; 2006's Stigmata HighFive was merely spastic in comparison to previous epileptic leanings.Disgorge Mexico was written during a twoweek road trip from the band's native Canada to Mexico. The title comes from a Mexican death metal band, but it also describes the record's creation. Burnt out after the road trip, the band went on hiatus and left the album unfinished. Gradually, after months of personal issues, they reconstituted themselves. The result reflects the angst and uncertainty of that time. Mongeon's lyrics and album artwork are rife with images of construction and destruction: \"The entire walls were built with sand bricks/ As everything piled up, the architect was left drained.\" Related are themes of betrayal and refuge denied: \"How could it be?/ The same hands that gave peace and shelter to the ones that they are about to destroy.\" Mongeon isn't slave to her printed lyrics, often glossing over lines to emphasize crucial words rhythmically. Sound is the weapon; text is simply its icing.Fittingly, Mongeon's bandmates wrap her in walls of dread. The production is monstrous, and Fuck the Facts now sound like they are exploding instead of imploding. \"No Return\" careens through hairpin turns; \"Dead End\" bulldozes like a sloweddown Slayer. Electronic dalliances are at a minimum here; big riffs are not. This is the heaviest Fuck the Facts have ever been, which suits Mongeon's buckets of black paint. \"Driving Through Fallen Cities\" glints with Metallicaesque clean tones, complete with melodic solo, then drops into \"La Culture du Faux\", a doomy soundtrack for end times. \"The Storm\" is an exhilarating steeplechase through anthemic melodies, chugging hardcore punk riffs, and a limber jazzy break. While such diversity is not new for Fuck the Facts, it now comes in a huge metallic exoskeleton. It's scary because it's scared, a nightmare amplified and multitracked. Instead of slipping through fingers, Fuck the Facts now engulf. "}