{"label":" Orange Twin","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12889/homepage_large.3f719133.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Vic Chesnutt, Elf Power, and the Amorphous Strums","title":"Dark Developments","text":" In the evershuffling deck that is the Athens music scene, this particular hand of cards was inevitable. In fact, it's a bit surprising it wasn't dealt sooner. Vic Chesnutt has been collaborating with anyone in earshot for nearly twenty years, Elf Power have deep tendrils in the local scene (the band's label is releasing this album), and the Amorphous Strums are, well, amorphous. The project, which involves a tour as well as this album, is meant as a sort of cooperative where everyone does the heavy lifting and everyone gets their names on the spine. Chesnutt gets first billing presumably because he wrote the songs, does most of the singing, and infuses every syllable with his usual skewed wit and gallows humor, but the other eight musicians pull their weight on the offkilter jangle of these nine songs.These are very angry songs, as if the musicians' outrage has been festering for, say, eight years (just to grab a number out of the air). Dark Developments may not be intended to be an electionyear album, but hearing it during an election year intensifies its power. That title specifically refers to overexposed darkroom prints, as Chesnutt makes clear on the creaky \"Stop the Horse\". Rather than toss the mistakes in the trash and start a new exposure, he keeps them all in a ledger he found in the trash, useless but artfully interesting. Similarly, this power nonet know that their frustrations with dark social and political developments may do little to change realworld problems, but work with the audacious hope that that it might fuel their music and lend weight to these dissenting songs. \"Little Fucker\" is a deliciously nasty sendoff, presumably to the current administration, sharing its venomous sentiment with \"Teddy Bear\", which could be a celebration of January 20, 2009: \"He ain't ever comin' back!\" the gang all sing jubilantly.As on Chesnutt's previous album, North Star Deserter, a sense of doom shoots through the songs, manifest in the Dutch political cartoon reproduced on the back of the CD packaging. If on that previous album Chesnutt had mixed emotions about the end of the world is it even worth saving? here he sounds a bit cheerier, thanks perhaps to the local setting (it was recorded in Athens rather than in Montreal) and the local friends. Whether out of despair or some sense of relief, these songs contain a great deal of humor, some of it topical and some of it likely inside jokes. \"Phil the Fiddler\" lists characters and their occupations \"Dick the butcher, Tom the bootblack, Ralph the collier\" that takes on a strange force after the presidential debates, as if Richard Scarry were speechwriting for McCainPalin. We even get the return of Chesnutt's mouth trumpet on \"We Are Mean\", a city/country contrast that puts the lie to certain beliefs about heartland America. \"In the city we are social, in the country we are mean,\" Chesnutt sings mischievously, and Elf Power and the Strums join him for the emphatic chorus: \"I declare that everywhere we are mean/ We are mean/ We are mean/ We are mean!\"As a backing miniorchestra, Elf Power and the Strums may not be as inventive as Lambchop or as dark as Godspeed You! Black Emperor, but they give Chesnutt just want he needs: a relaxed and less rehearsed environment. But their imprint is all over the album. Opener \"Mystery\" has an almost \"Earth Angel\" vibe, thanks primarily to Derek Almstead's slowdancing bass, which is a thoughtful melodic anchor throughout the album. \"Bilocating Dog\" sounds a gleefully strange as its title suggests, and the band explode the closing psychedelic jam of \"Phil the Fiddler\". Here's hoping this mass collaboration isn't a oneoff project, as each party seems to invigorate the others. Either way, I know who I wish I'd watched the election night returns with. "}