{"label":" Perishable","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1231/homepage_large.85929965.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Califone","title":"Deceleration One","text":" There was a time in my life when I wouldn't have touched this record with a ten foot pole. Early in my musical development (in my case, we're talking high school here, or maybe eighth grade), I was full of biases against all kinds of genres. I was certain that hiphop sucked, electronica was all just a bunch of boring, gonowhere beats, and that bastard rock music had been monopolizing the airwaves for upwards of forty years. I'm sure the young, arrogant me would be awfully surprised going through my record collection these days and seeing just how much of it was recorded after 1990. My friend Brian has always said that if he ever went back in time and met himself, he'd want to kick his own ass for being such a moron. I often find myself feeling the same way, but I think that instead of giving my younger self a good whomping, I'd be more apt to put an album like this in his hand and tell him to really listen to it. I'd tell him that it's free music, totally improvised live as a soundtrack to a few independent films. And he'd be incredibly skeptical. Improvisation was another one of the categories that I had shut myself off from. Somehow, I got it in my head that, if a song hadn't been prewritten, it couldn't possibly be any good. And I'd have argued that point, too, with no evidence to back up my claim. Of course, I don't really know what I would have thought of this when I was thirteen, but I imagine that hearing it would have at least opened my eyes to the fact that freely improvised music doesn't have to be abrasive or difficult (though sometimes the best of it is). But my views on just about everything have changed since then, and at this point in my life, free music fascinates me to no end be it the jazz freakouts of the Art Ensemble of Chicago or the chance music created by a guy like Steve Reich. I basically support Ornette Coleman's notion that being free from the confines of regular structures and chord progressions opens musicians up to limitless expressive possibilities. Much to my delight, this new Califone disc supports that notion remarkably. Several of these pieces seem to have at least some sort of verbally conveyed structure, but virtually none of them adhere to the conventions of form that most music does. The pieces themselves are all quite varied in approach from each other, some building in long crescendos, some pulsing listlessly, and others behaving almost like songs, with steady beats and coherent melodies. This approach to scoring films is nothing especially new Pink Floyd was doing it as early as 1969, and I'm sure they weren't the first but I've always found it to be incredibly effective at evoking the emotion or the mood present on the screen. Pinetop Seven's stunning improvised score to The Wind is so vivid that I could practically visualize the film before I even saw it. And while Califone's scores for a series of film loops, as well as one other short film, are quite so visually evocative, they do carry a profound sense of emotion that keeps me connected to them even when they're at their most obtuse. The first six tracks are music set to film loops constructed by Jeff Economy (who also performs some accordion and live foley) and Carolyn Faber. By and large, the ensemble avoids the obvious trap of performing repetitive music over it, instead opting for sounds that flow freely from one emotional state to the next. This is really a Califone record in name more than in practice, as mainstays Ben Massarella and Tim Rutili are accompanied by five other musicians (and Economy), each of whom contributes rather evenly to the overall sound. The eightminute opener \"Handpainted Halo/Ceiling\" is one of the album's most stunning tracks, opening with an extended series of ambient washes and organ drones. At the sixminute mark, Massarella and Joe Adamik enter with drums and assorted other percussive objects (including sheet metal and bedpans), giving the music a more songlike feel and a steady pulse for the delayed guitars and mellow organs in the foreground to rest on. As the tune progresses, the drums and percussion gradually move out of synch, eventually stopping to leave the other instruments to wander and drone for a couple of minutes before moving on to the shorter \"Rooftops/Static.\" \"Rooftops\" employs some deft live electronics (courtesy of Gary Schepers) and tribal drums to drive along the ominous organ and swelling, warm synth. \"Face Under Hat/Old Streetside\" has the feel of a lazy nighttime jam, with its wandering lap steel, dingy guitar riffs and eddying electric piano. The drums punch out a laidback but steady beat as the interplay between the melodic instruments slowly moves into bluesy territory and then back again, finally devolving into a disorganized ambient soup for \"Parade Queen/MilkWaltz/Dirt Moon.\" And out of that rises \"Lakewater/Parachutes,\" a gorgeous jam that rides on a steady backbeat. Rutili and Rebecca Gates' heavily delayed guitars reverberate over a gossamer web of organ, and one of them actually ends up crafting a sort of hook for the whole proceedings. The first set closes out with \"Peel,\" a duet between Gillian Lisee's accordion and Rutili's guitar that benefits from subtle interjections of organ. The second set originally provided accompaniment to Ladislaw Starewicz's The Mascot, and finds the band moving more rapidly between textures. It opens with the quietly graceful \"Intro/Sleepy Child Asks for an Orange,\" and moves through all manner of material, from the electronic \"Monkey, Cat, Ballerina and Hood Escape from Moving Car/Clown Loses Head/Dog Stays\" to the raw \"Fruitstand Floor/Ankle Bite/Dog Steals Fallen Orange/Broom,\" a bluesy junkyard jam that would've fit nicely on last year's Roomsound if not for its brevity. Jim Becker's fretless banjo provides a kind of drunken lead as the rest of the group motors away underneath, expanding and contracting the tempo on a whim. One can only begin to imagine what the film in question looks like, confronted with sectional titles like \"Hellions Assemble,\" \"Hell Orchestra with Dancers,\" \"Cat Fights Devil,\" and \"Garlic Head Clown Serenades Ballerina Crying Vaseline Tears.\" The set closes with \"Dog Feeds Orange to Sleepy Child/Outro,\" which is one of the most straightup beautiful moments on the album. Warm synths, organ, swelling guitar leads, and lightly strummed chords are all that comprise the spare track, and it closes things on a remarkably serene note. Taken as a whole, Deceleration One is an enjoyable, richly textured listen, full of moments of quiet incidental beauty and dense noise alike. I'd even go so far as to say that it may be a good introduction to improvised music for rock fans who feel a little queasy about jumping straight into an Ornette Coleman or Sun Ra Arkestra album. Granted, the gentleness of this music puts it apart from a lot of other improvised records, but it's a great primer on the absence of rigid structure and planning. Regardless of your motives or biases, though, if you're looking for an excellent instrumental disc, this disc delivers. i "}