{"label":" Saddle Creek","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12897/homepage_large.5383ba45.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Sebastien Grainger & the Mountains","title":"Sebastien Grainger and the Mountains","text":" When details of Death From Above 1979's breakup surfaced in 2005, it was surprising to learn of conflicts between Jesse Keeler and Sebastien Grainger, the band's only two members. The tight synchronicity of their ragedance breakout You're a Woman, I'm a Machine released just a year before the split instead suggested that the lookalike duo shared a close creative companionship. In retrospect it seems like they probably didn't agree on an aesthetic, either. Keeler's postDFA79 project MSTRKRFT abandoned rock for techno, shooting for (and whiffing on) a heavily vocodered brand of Daft Punkinspired electrohouse. Grainger's debut solo effort Sebastien Grainger and the Mountains, meanwhile, ventures down a more conventional rock path with tracks built loosely on the singersongwriter template. Of course, that term conjures unpleasant notions of watereddown Dylanisms (or worse), but Grainger isn't a neofolkie (though signing to Saddle Creek might further the misconception). He's simply fleshed out his own song sketches with powerpop and, occasionally, 1970s arena rock to create a batch of highenergy, radiofriendly tunes. The record showcases Grainger's command of melody and works best at its most straightforward, like on album opener \"Love Can Be So Mean\". As with other standout moments here, the song leans heavily on the beefy power chords of Cheap Trick and an anthemic, new waveinspired chorus. With its shouts of \"Let's go out tonight!\" the track could easily play beneath a high school flick's onelastparty sequence, and I mean that wholeheartedly as a compliment. \"Who Do We Care For?\" and \"American Names\" are equally catchy, the former recalling QOSTA's heavyrock crowd pleaser \"Go With the Flow\" with its handclaps and insistent piano backing.  Had Grainger chosen to stick with this direction, Mountains would be perfectly listenable (if unoriginal), but unfortunately the album's strong lot ends with \"American Names\". On the bulk of the remaining songs, he shows an odd tendency for lopsidedness songs with capable choruses but plodding, asymmetrical verses. Make it through the inconsistent patches of \"I Hate My Friends\" and \"By Cover of Night (Fire Fight)\" and you'll be rewarded with sugary sweet, synthflecked hooks and left feeling only halfsatisfied. On these songs (and others such as \"[I Am Like a] River\" that suffer a similar fate), it feels like Grainger is going for a Pixiesesque verse/accessible refrain format, but this material uncomplicated and popreaching as it is doesn't call for it. Mountains also trots out a handful of headscratchers. Grainger includes a live version of \"I'm All Rage\", and while it's a good recording of a decent song, it protrudes oddly from the studio cuts surrounding it. There's a Jay Reatardtype punk thrasher called \"Niagara\" that is said to have been originally posted to MySpace after a night of heavy drinking and doesn't appear to have been improved upon since. Decisions like these make for an effort that, at times, comes across as slapdash and underthought. Which brings us full circle, in a strange way, to DFA79. While the band surely wasn't the headiest of its era, there was a svelte, muscular quality to their music a feeling that any excess had been cut away that is absent from this record (and, it's worth noting, Keeler's work in MSTRKRFT). What's also gone is the sense of aggression and urgency that made You're a Woman, I'm a Machine so impressive. Perhaps the same discord that did the group in was also its driving force; we'll never know. What does seem clear now, though, is that if Keeler and Grainger continue at their current pace, they won't soon escape the shadows of their former glory. "}