{"label":" Road Cone","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1232/homepage_large.a061ca6c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Califone","title":"Califone EP","text":" Califone's first selftitled EP bore the scars of Red Red Meat's previous album; like the Meat's There's a Star Above the Manger Tonight, Califone's first EP surrounded the actual songs with walls of sharp, rusty percussion and blasts of unadulterated noise. The sonic hybrid on both records made for an engaging listen, focusing attention on the chunks of melody that staggered from the wreckage. While I found both albums stunning in their execution, rock fans turned off by more abrasive music were left scratching their heads and plugging their ears. Admirers of more traditional structures will be glad to know that the second Califone EP finds the focus returning to Tim Rutili's powerful songwriting, a move that's also certain to please admirers of the band.Remnants of the older records' exotic production remain on this brief fivesong record. The opening \"Electric Fence\" features booming, heavily manipulated drums in addition to a bagful of indiscernible sound fragments bouncing dubstyle off the studio walls. But these flourishes are backgrounded often enough to reveal what is arguably the most beautiful song Rutili has written. The song's wistfully sad melody, tragic, descending piano line and impressionistic word fragments (\"lit a blue tip match off the white of your eye\") turn profound when considered as a whole.The next three songs feature more subdued studio work. \"St. Martha Let It Fold\" has an eerie melody that draws heavily from rural depressionera music. \"Beneath the Yachtsman\" starts with clattering Meatstyle beats before morphing into a nugget of exhausted soul music, complete with quivering gospel piano. And the guitarandvoiceonly \"Don't Let Me Die Nervous\" is a song halfway between Appalachian folk and Bob Dylan's \"It's Alright Ma, I'm Only Bleeding,\" with an intensity to match.The closer, \"Dock Boggs,\" is named after an artist featured prominently on the Anthology of American Folk Music box set, and it serves as a kind of restatement of thesis. Combining a melody adapted from one of Boggs' songs with rattling percussion and buzzing electronics, \"Boggs\" again captures that outoftime feel where studio technology smashes up against classic American songwriting. Califone have a knack for artfully blending these disparate worlds. "}