{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12874/homepage_large.ee9f7be4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"STRFKR","title":"Starfucker","text":" First things first: If you want to understand the fuss surrounding this Portland, Ore. trio, you should see them in concert. Dressed in exaggerated, skinnyhipster reimaginings of oldschool rappers or drag queens, Starfucker come off like a combination of Chromeo and ELO, indulging in theatrical silliness while conjuring sugary pop hooks. Onstage, the members swap multiple instruments, providing a kinetic, anythingcanhappen energy. But sadly, the studio strips Starfucker of their visual appeal, rhythmic heft, and electricity, leaving wispy electropop songs, washedout vocals, and skittishly edited samples in their place.Their selftitled debut is a mix of primary songwriter Josh Hodges' home recordings and some afterthefact finessing from his bandmates and label head, which helps explain why it feels flatter than the group's fullbodied stage show. The tinny percussion and slinky, reverbladen bass are shadows of their usual selves. And the songs always saturated with themes of heartbreak, loneliness, and loss behind upbeat instrumentation simply feel boringly melancholy without the live party atmosphere.Most of these songs are wrapped in a gauzy, echoladen wash that has a distancing effect on the music, but a few lovely standouts pierce the poor production. \"German Love\" latches on to a sweet guitar melody amidst stuttering samples, layering a bright singalong chorus over a neon keyboard line. \"Holly\" marries cheeky, deadpan lyrics (\"L.A. hasn't killed me yet\") to ticking percussion, soulful guitar, and a repetitive, descending synth riff for a track that wouldn't sound out of place on Fujiya & Miyagi's setlist. And \"Pop Song\" is exactly as advertised: A strutting gem that uses a funky bassline, distorted effects, and videogame synths to enhance the band's best melody. Unfortunately, too many of the songs highlight Starfucker's shortcomings, leaving them introspective, detached, and even timid. If this threepiece can learn to have as much fun in the studio as they do onstage, these fuckers might actually become stars. "}