{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12914/homepage_large.961f923f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Matthew Dear","title":"Body Language Vol. 7","text":" To make a massive oversimplification, minimal techno in 2007 was all about Luciano's live DJ sets. The head of German label Cadenza may not have initiated the genre's trend away from minimalism and back towards deep house classicism, but he made it exciting. In the process, he practically trademarked many of the year's key tracks. Luciano switched easily from brainfrying hypnotism to bodymoving funk, blurring distinctions between the two. Unfortunately, his official 2008 DJ mix, Fabric41, veers too much toward the former, restricting access to the \"ultimate Luciano live experience\" to those who download bootlegged live sets.As if on cue, Michiganbased DJ/producer Matthew Dear steps up to the plate with Body Language Vol. 7, a mix for Berlin's Get Physical label that apes the Chilean DJ's minimal European techno and deep U.S. house a circuitous route sure to annoy purists of all stripes. Dear's the right kind of artist to jump on this trend: From the quirky micropop records he releases under his own name to the coldly monolithic bangers he concocts under his Audion alias, he has a knack for taking other people's blueprints to their logical conclusions.Dear fares best when pushing to the extremes of the styles he spins here. In the minimal camp, Kalabrese's \"Cityblues\" is a murky cabaret number with its insistent bass pulse, Chic guitar, and erratic, livesounding percussion, is as compelling as any of the housenoir that Kompakt's Matias Aguayo has made of late; Radio Slave's remix of Mlle Caro and Franck Garcia's \"Dead Souls\" counterposes eerie, fragile vocals with longform groove; DJ Koze's \"Zou Zou\" is the most imaginative adoption of world music this side of trumpeter Jon Hassell or Chilean minimal house producer Ricardo Villalobos. At the other end, the casual, celebratory vibe of Kid Sublime's delightfully glittery disco revival \"Basement Works Vol. 1\" evokes the best impromptu house party ever. And the set closes with Lorenzo's already classic 2001 anthem \"Get Deep\", its seductive bass punctuated with thick handclaps and yearning male vocals. Sometimes, though, the middle ground is also the highest ground: The set's best track is Seth Troxler and Patrick Russell's \"Doctor of Romance\", an endlessly involving groove concealing gently writhing layers of percussion and an army of murmured vocals, sighs, and grunts. The tribal workout of Basti Grub's \"Baaa Niii\" is nearly as strong, with its surround sound rhythms and slurred spokenword vocals. An entire album of tracks like these would be irresistible rather than simply great. That Dear falls slightly short of this is less a measure of his own successes and shortcomings than those of the 2008 minimal scene. The triumph of deep house, which has replaced minimal as today's archetypal sound, has reinvigorated dance music values such as restraint, subtlety, and that most meaningless of words, \"deepness.\" Minimal, on the other hand, placed a classicistbaiting emphasis on novelty, diversity, and melodrama. Lately, minimalism has departed from such values and lurched towards sameness, becoming a drab cliché. This year's ascendancy of rigorously reductive (but not minimal) deep house turns that pursuit of sameness into the norm, as producers craft undemonstrative, compulsive grooves.Subtlety and restraint can be great things in dance music, and many of the best dance tracks of the year are those that get this \"undemonstrative, compulsive\" mix just right; the trouble is that distinguishing between the scintillating and the boring becomes a challenge when these traits dominate. There are few truly awful records, yet far too many justdecent ones, and navigating the tiny stylistic space between them is increasingly difficult. In such conditions, Dear gets it right more often than most a good twothirds of Body Language Vol. 7 is genuinely compelling but I can't shake the feeling he won this round by a throw of the dice. "}