{"label":" Flydaddy","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1233/homepage_large.dac194fd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Califone","title":"Califone","text":" Remember back in elementary school when multimedia education meant listening to vinyl records as some yoyo worked the film strip? You had to use your imagination back then, folks. Watching a still image on the screen for a minute or two while a monotone narrator droned on about the history of Incan art meant flexing your brain constantly, if only to stay awake as you came down from that chocolate milk high. These kids today with their \"computers\" and their \"Internet\" have everything spoon fed. Sure, they can come up with the answers, but how the hell are they supposed to learn how to think? If you're old enough to remember those times, then you may remember that most school districts contracted with a company called Califone to produce those industrial strength turntables that could fall five feet to floor and play perfectly every time. (I tested this personally back in the day.) Former members of Red Red Meat and Rex have borrowed that company's name for a new musical project, and their eponymous debut appeared this year on Flydaddy. It's an appropriate moniker for a band fronted by Tim Rutilli, as it implies toughness, solid design, and a keen awareness of how to blend classicism with the latest technology all these qualities are here in spades on this fine record. Rutilli's already strong songwriting improves with every record, and the music his band makes has an air of permanence about it you just know this stuff is going to be discovered by future generations. Stylistically similar to Red Red Meat's There's A Star Above The Manger Tonight, Califone tones down the more abrasive noise experiments and has an overall quieter feel. The junkyard spacefolk blues vibe is still there, but is more refined with slightly catchier melodies. Prettiest of all is \"Silvermine Pictures,\" which mines the lofi classic rock sound with a subtle steel drum adding some nice textures. Throughout, the percussion is outstanding, particularly on the loping \"To Hush A Sick Transmission,\" which has a similar metallic groove to Tom Waits' old masterpiece \"In The Colosseum.\" All told, Califone seems the perfect sonic evolution for rock, incorporating the noise prevalent in experimental electronic music in a completely new and organic way. Pick it up now, if only to have some answers when your hipper than thou kids ask you about it in twenty years. "}