{"label":" Frog Man Jake","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12940/homepage_large.9332b059.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Stereo Image","title":"Stereo Image","text":" While Stereo Image do list their designer and stylist as band members (Image... get it?), you'll quickly pick out the two principals here: half of this new venture is Johnny Dark, who was once half of Ontario's muchadored Junior Boys. He left after that group's first album and the jittery R&Bnodding twostep beats from the first record more or less went with him. (No insult to the opulent mope of So This Is Goodbye, not that it even needs mentioning.) Not surprisingly, the production on Stereo Image performs the similar feat of moving both the feet and the brain while things eminently tasteful and chic and making it all look easy.The vocals are another story. San Serac sings on every track here, and this probably isn't the best context for his voice, which is both technically limited and dramatic to the point of camp. Sometimes his presence is easy to overlook. Opener \"Pack Moves\" is an uptempo barrage of wet, bassy synths and teakettle percussion, and when Dark puts forth comparatively feetfirstheadlater tracks, silly lyrics and sillier delivery can't do much to dampen the mood. When the album veers toward GradeA midtempo swoon like \"Your Collapsed State\", the vocal approach begins to grate; things get worse on sparser minorkey material like \"Strange Life\", where Serac sings in an utter deadpan about promoters sipping white beers and names of midlevel sedans as if they were newlyunearthed Ian Curtis lyrics.It's only on tracks like the sleek \"Exposure\" or the obvious standout of \"Red Nights\" that Serac has a backandforth with the track rather than smothering it. During the latter's loopy middleeight, he gets in an impassioned plea: \"No sadsack DJ's ever gonna bring us down.\" Now, Stereo Image made it to Junior Boys' recent Body Language mix, so there's probably nothing to read into there; but given its placement on the record, and the tone of this whole album against Junior Boys' trajectory without Dark, the comment can't help but sound a little pointed, if not defensive.The thing is, Dark is all over the place on Stereo Image, trying out different sounds. Only on \"Your Collapsed State\" does he dip back into the sparse and bated mystique of earlier Junior Boys material. The bright tones and relentless percussion elsewhere can sound like a woozy, paranoid recast of big beat, and \"Dark Chapter\" and \"Clamoring\" are icy to the point of neargothic. An instrumental version of Stereo Image would be an event in itself, but Serac struts over every track like it's up to him alone. His speaksing delivery on \"Red Nights\" fits ably with the wistful chirpiness of the track, like he and Dark are smiling in the face of some adversity. But it's about the only moment here where he shows more than one note. "}