{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12944/homepage_large.b740e0d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Hallam Foe OST","text":" Growing up is tough. Perhaps growing up in Scotland is particularly tough, which may explain why so many young people there turn to music playing it, listening to it for relief. Music plays a similarly large role in Hallam Foe, the Scottish coming of age tale (renamed \"Mister Foe\" for no good reason in the States) starring Jamie Bell as the titular antihero, a troubled teen voyeur with major mother issues set loose in the country's capitol of Edinburgh to find himself and work through his various problems.The mind of Bell's Foe is full of conspiracy theories and obsessions, with stalking and spying his primary coping mechanisms. Needless to say, much of the twisted film features Bell wordlessly observing the world, which leaves plenty of room for music to fill the gaps. Certainly director David Mackenzie designed the film that way, considering the consistently strong use of music and especially music from Scottish acts in his movies. The Last Great Wilderness, for example, enlisted the Pastels. Young Adam featured a score by David Byrne (lest one forget, a greencardcarrying Scot in American clothing). And for Hallam Foe, Mackenzie worked with Domino to license a number of Scottish bands for the film's soundtrack, including Franz Ferdinand, James Yorkston, U.N.P.O.C., Sons and Daughters, King Creosote, and Orange Juice.It's Orange Juice's \"Blue Boy\" that kicks off both film and soundtrack, and it's also the last bit of prominent vocal we get in the film itself until around the halfway point, when the instrumental teases give way for a brief taste of (non Scot) Clinic's \"If You Could Read Your Mind.\" U.N.P.O.C.'s \"Here on My Own\" is enlisted for a brief montage (just as it was for the film's trailer), but it's nice to hear the full version here from the obscure band. Much of the rest of Hallam Foe, film and soundtrack alike, features snippets of wistful or folky tracks courtesy of artists like Yorkston and Woodbine, with the occasional digression by, for example, Junior Boys (\"Double Shadow\" is used in a bar scene).Presumably due to licensing issues, two of the Scottish acts arguably best suited to Mackenzie's quietly intriguing and tonally introspective tale, Belle and Sebastian and Boards of Canada, are nowhere to be found. The former would have been the perfect fit for Mackenzie's movie, certainly more so than they were for Todd Solondz's Storytelling. And Boards of Canada are downright cinematic to begin with, though their enigmatic amorphousness is approached by the presence of Argentina's Juana Molina, whose loopy folktronica \"Salvese Quien Pueda\" at least feels right for the film.However, stepping up with unlikely mastery of mood rather than manic energy comes everyone's favorite charttopping Scots Franz Ferdinand, whose somewhat literalminded \"Hallam Foe Dandelion Blow\" falls closer to the ghostly psych of, say, the Coral than the group's usual métier. Listening to FF stretch their boundaries a bit makes you wonder what the disc (and movie) would have been like overseen by a single artist, as B&S did with the aforementioned Storytelling or Badly Drawn Boy did wonderfully with About a Boy. Even if it captures the film's oddball sensibilities as is, the Hallam Foe set is slightly more sampler than soundtrack and certainly less effective separated from the scenes with which Mackenzie paired them. After all, in the end it's a movie about looking, not listening, and these songs don't always resonate outside their designated context. "}