{"label":" Cherry Red","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12951/homepage_large.2118ccdf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Garrett","artist":"Adorable","title":"Footnotes 92-94","text":" With their debut, Against Perfection, released at the tail end of the shoegazer era and just before the height of Britpop hysteria, Adorable arguably straddled both genres yet were embraced by neither. Throughout the remainder of their short career, they'd have to settle for mere admiration while their more genreconformist peers enjoyed wider recognition both critically and commercially. None of that was the band's fault: There's nothing willfully difficult about Adorable, the most overtly pop band to have been classified as shoegaze.Footnotes 9294 which culls 18 tracks from the band's early EPs and two fulllengths, the aforementioned Against Perfection and the sadly neglected followup, Fake represents the first attempt to give this band its muchbelated due. Footnotes opens with early single \"Sunshine Smile\", which with its radiant guitar lead and whooshing chorus pegged them early as shoegazer disciples. While it's the track Adorable is remembered for, it also captures the band in its leastinspired and most embryonic form.Adorable made a significant leap from \"Sunshine Smile\" to Against Perfection, which notably did not include that early effort on the UK version of the album. On the Creation Records debut, Adorable retain some of shoegaze's aesthetic qualities, the saturated choruses and random bursts, but it's the elements that set them apart from their label peers that most impress in hindsight. Where vocals had been relegated to mere sonic accoutrement in shoegaze proper, Piotr Fijalkowski opted to take a front seat on Against Perfection, keeping his vocals well above the din. In contrast to the thenprevailing convention, which prized words for syllabic structure or how well they matched the music's dreamy somnolence, Fijalkowski seemed driven by a desire to convey raw emotion, no matter how clumsy the articulation. The approach reached its zenith on \"Glorious\", which here appears in slightly altered form, but still displays all of the brash egotism and crippling selfdoubt (\"there's a whole world outside that I didn't know about, I don't need it\") that made Fijalkowski stand out amongst the legions of breathy, vague impressionists.Predictably, Footnotes draws heavily from Against Perfection, featuring eight of the album's 10 tracks. (The two left out are \"I Know You Too Well\" and \"Still Life\" both wisely jettisoned for this release.) An unfortunate side effect, however, is the exclusion of equally deserving songs from Fake particularly \"Road Movie\" and epic closer \"Have You Seen the Light\". The band's second album was in many ways as much a departure from Against Perfection as that album had been from \"Sunshine Smile\". Rather than continue further down the Britpop path (which they might easily have done with the groundwork laid on Against Perfection), Adorable instead chose to explore their growing fascination with American indie, adopting sludgier guitar tones and a more narrative lyrical approach for Fake. The shift perhaps explains why the album never found favor in England.Nevertheless, Fake was quite an achievement. The more propulsive songs, like opener \"Feed Me\" and the single \"Vendetta\", effectively underscored Fijalkowski's sneering, pointed delivery. Even more impressive were the slower numbers, such as on the incandescent ballad \"Submarine\". For once, Fijalkowski's vulnerability was matched by his band's more nuanced approach, one that emphasized the empty expanses, less over more.Rounding things out are a few odds and ends, lesser known Bsides that are neither embarrassing nor worthy of special mention. Cherry Red deserves credit for releasing this careerspanning retrospective, if for no other reason than for getting these songs in wide circulation. But truthfully, the label would have better served the band by simply reissuing the albums. Footnotes may work as a general introduction but falls short of a worthy epitaph. "}