{"label":" Southern Lord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12946/homepage_large.c6042ccb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Sunn O)))","title":"Dømkirke","text":" For all their extended drones, Sunn O))) have been about change. Soon after recording the heralded Grimm Robe Demos a decade ago, ampandvolume addicts Stephen O'Malley and Greg Anderson had the good sense to realize that slow, distended riffs no matter how quaking, visceral, and charged could quickly wear down a band. To that end, Sunn O))) have collaborated with dozens of avantgarde and metal heavyweights over six fulllengths and a bevy of EPs, live takes, and joint releases. From noise paragon Merzbow and exMelvins/Earth grinder Joe Preston to contemporary allies Boris and Xasthur necro Malefic, an impressive horde have left their mark on Sunn O)))'s colossal doom.Dømkirke a vinylonly, 2xLP set recorded in March 2007 in a 12th century Norwegian cathedral showcases Sunn O)))'s malleability and versatility. Here, Anderson and O'Malley are assisted by four auxiliary members: Attila Csihar, the enigmatic vocalist of black metal band Mayhem; Steve Moore, the Southern Lord hornsandkeyboards specialist who now plays in Earth full time; longtime Sunn O))) collaborator Tos Nieuwenhuizen; and Lasse Marhaug, an Oslo electronicist whose work as Jazkamer spun glorious noise from metal threads on 2006's Metal Music Machine. The Borealis Festival an artistically adventurous affair spread throughout venues in Bergen, Norway's second city commissioned the piece to mirror \"the gothic Gregorian hymns of the Late Middle Ages... [which] reflected the despair, the terrors and darkness of the world.\" Oh, the irony and possibilities...But what's so special about Dømkirke isn't that it was made by tattooed guys in dark robes playing doom metal in a beautiful church it's Sunn O)))'s crafty manipulation of spaces, aural and architectural, and the manner in which they relate to one another. The group uses its full sonic breadth here, saturating the space with a smart array of sounds. During \"Cannon\", the music even seems to mimic the cathedral's arches, as rich bass, horn, and organ support Marhaug's razorthin electronic squeals.Before Dømkirke, Csihar had appeared on three Sunn O))) tracks two on last year's Oracle and \"Decay2 [Nihil's Maw]\", the tortured 25minute conclusion to 2004's White2. Those tracks were good but onedimensional, picking a sound and exhausting it. Here, the tracks seem to build, collapse, and sometimes rebuild through a wide range of tones and timbres, from the classic Sunn O))) guitar/bass upheaval to sonorous horn and organ calls. Csihar's crisscrossing moans, screams, and roars benefit from the more intricate sonic foundation, and his performance proves dynamic and, in its own way, narrative.Totaling 64 minutes, these four tracks showcase an almost litrugical arch: Opener \"Why Dost Thou Hide Thyself in Clouds?\" is a staid but powerful invocation, Moore building a viscous pipe organ drone that Csihar slowly slithers through. \"Cannon\" greets the rising action as Anderson and O'Malley join with low, long bass and guitar notes, and Moore slides trombone hums between the cracks. The upheaval of history or religion or really big amps in a stonewalled room finally comes to pass during \"Cymatics\", where noise, electronics, and Csihar's screams converge, with feedback flailing above a massive bass and barelythere organ. That organ is the only thing left at the close of \"Masks the Ætmospheres\", which feels like a summary of the performance's musical themes.Any review of Dømkirke would be remiss without commending Southern Lord's dedication to presenting its records as nondisposable pieces of art: Dømkirke, which isn't available digitally, comes pressed to sturdy charcoaledandveined vinyl. Each record slides into tough paper sleeves covered with gorgeous, theatric stills from the performance, and those sleeves slide into opposing wings of the thickest gatefold packaging I've ever held. A shadowy canvas painting by Burzum/Darkthrone artist Tanya Stene graces the front, representing the menacing sermon offered by the robed men on the back cover (O'Malley, Anderson and Csihar) from the darkened altar pictured in the haunting cathedral panorama stretched across the inside gatefold. There's a poster and a number, too. Released in a recorded music industry that's barely limping past its centennial, Dømkirke's material and musical hulk reflects the strength of anything that's survived 850 years of change. "}