{"label":" Rap-A-Lot","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12942/homepage_large.15b2e6b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan McGarvey","artist":"Z-Ro","title":"Crack","text":" Foreclosure is nipping at hiphop's heels. Though it doesn't look it thanks to a broad, impressive list of releases from this and last year led by, in no specific order, Bun B's crowdpleasing II Trill, Trae's wrenching Life Goes On, Devin the Dude's uncanny Waiting to Inhale and Scarface's lioninwinter MADE even Houston's once evergreen RapALot records is a house going to seed. Trae left the label in May. Devin has fled too, and already dropped a new fulllength disc with Razor & Tie of all places.For ZRo, who first appeared in the corners of DJ Screw's chain of drizzling, endless mid1990s classics (most of which are now conveniently repackaged and available at your nearest Best Buy start with the 3xCD June 27), and has released five albums already on RapALot, the whole world is starting to sound like it's closing up shop. Case in point is ZRo's sixth on RapALot, Crack, which is drab, shabby and more than a little lonely (\"I smoke purple stuff alone in my room\"). It can't make its terrain of solipsistic gangsters and Houston beltwaysulk hum with emotion or its layers of horns and hihats shake with any color.ZRo produces eight of the album's 15 tracks, and leans on heaps of previous compositions. The raided discs include the last two Trae albums and Trae and ZRo's two collaborations, 2003's A.B.N (Assholes by Nature) and this summer's downpour of noir, It Is What It Is. The samples are all tamped down and stripmined in their reincarnations on Crack. \"Here We Go\" features an inexplicable pan flute and a lifeless snare. The wouldbe ladiesjam \"Baby Girl\" reeks with clumps of digital sparkle and hubbytalk: \"She follow my lead/ And respect the fact that I wear the pants.\"ZRo's hook is that the intimacy in his raps perpetually commemorating a handful of dead collaborators and friends, worshiping solitude and seemingly dismissing all worldly pleasures (except, of course, kush, candy paint, and lean) dips into weakness. On Crack he scoffs at dancing on \"If That's How You Feel\": \"My body don't move like that, so Im'a chill/ Im'a play the wall, leaving all to dancing to y'all.\" He'd prefer it if no one called and no one spoke; four wheels are typically all the company he needs.But for all his confession ZRo brushes his breakthroughs aside. As soon has he resonates with real sentiment on divorce: \"I don't give a fuck as long as my child knows me\" the album swoops back into dropsied howls about those suspicious club hos and these disrespectful young corner boys. Where, say, Scarface, may hold a mournful note for an extra beat, ZRo instantly flips into a stream of pithy taunts and complaints. The effect is dulling, frustrating, and more than a little repulsive.ZRo at least had his strengths catered to on 2005's Let the Truth Be Told. There, the underrated longtime Scarface producer Mike Dean laid out a chain of warmer, bluesinflected guitar and drum loops for ZRo's moans. Dean is totally absent from Crack and other veteran Houston producers like Mr. Lee can't summon any suitable nostalgia, which makes ZRo seem even more alone. All the shining lights of the Houston scene sport something ineffable: Scarface's transcendent violence; Devin's beatpoetleer; Trae's whorls of emotional concision; Big Moe's druggy, violet sunshine. ZRo has always been satisfied playing the brassy, noncommittal grump. That's a fine enough role to play, but as the world around him downsizes and constricts, he's clamming up, retreating home and phoning it in. "}