{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12959/homepage_large.74aa8bb8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: The Young Disciples","text":" It's a distant memory these days, but East St. Louis was once a thriving city. As late as 1959, the liner notes for Numero's latest Eccentric Soul installment inform us, it was named an \"AllAmerica\" city by the National Civic League. But as the 1960s rearranged the nation's landscape, East St. Louis sifted down to the bottom; before the decade was over, a quarter of its residents were unemployed, and many who did have jobs were underemployed. By 1967, street gangs and corruption as well as one of the nation's highest murder rates were all most Americans knew about the place that gave us Miles Davis.In a city where all the wheels had come off so quickly, the challenges for kids who wanted to make something of themselves were understandably immense. Enter Jackson, Tennessee native Allan Merry and the South End Neighborhood Opportunity Center. The son of teachers and an accomplished woodwind player who had toured or recorded with Curtis Amy, Ray Charles, Hank Williams Jr., and Little Richard, Merry was looking to settle, and the Opportunity Center's mission of keeping kids out of street gangs suited him. At first, he fit in teaching kids to play baseball and working to bring more kids to the Center, but as his musical ability became more and more obvious, kids started showing up for that, too.Faced with the influx, Merry had to figure out how to harness the creative energy of dozens of teenagers. He created a practice schedule and banned drugs and alcohol, recruited a local garage band to be the rhythm section, and generally made showing up worth the while of kids with no other artistic outlet. The whole conglomeration came to be called the Young Disciples, and in time, the funksouljazz collective came to include male and female vocal groups (including the Primes and Primettes, coincidentally the same names that the Supremes and Temptations originally went by), funk outfits, solo acts, duos, dance troupes, and bands. The group had 30 members when it gave its first concert in October 1967. They played out, moved to a bigger practice space, recruited new members, traveled, secured grant funding and cheap equipment, and, finally, thought about recording.By this point, it was 1969, and the Young Disciples were a local institution. The YoDi, Gateway, and Merry family of labels began recording in St. Louis that year, and by 1970 they were able to book time in Memphis' legendary Sun studios. This continued through 1971, until the Young Disciples finally ran out of steam in 1972. So what does that recorded legacy sound like? Well, to say the handful of 45s the program left behind are worthy of reissue is an understatement. By the time they got into the studio, the Young Disciples, under any of the many names they issued 45s under, were a tight, forceful and imaginative unit.\"Crumbs from the Table,\" the Aside of the first Young Disciples Co. single is a stunning socially conscious funk workout. Larry Williams gives a raw, rhythmically dexterous lead vocal performance, the rhythm section is right on it, and the huge horn section sounds like a marching band thrilled to play something besides Sousa. The other Young Disciples Co. sides are from another universe \"Girls Girls Girls\" is a melodious soul ballad with great mixedgender backing vocals, while \"Bang Bang Bang\" is an absolutely slamming party instrumental with a bit of cheerleaderish chanting from the Primettes. Third Flight take their own pass at socially aware soul with \"Third Flight\", a psychedelictinged big band funk tune with astounding harmony vocals and a brilliant syncopated lead that tackles anticocaine lyrics.The troupe's facility with hardhitting, uptempo soul produces many of the disc's other highlights, including the Georgettes' uptown girl group swinger \"Hard Hard\", and the majestic psychedelic soul cut \"Homeboy\" by Eddie Fisher & Allan Merry. The latter sounds like Sly & the Family Stone sucked into a vortex with the Art Ensemble of Chicago and a German electronic group. The Young Disciples had a lot of range, though, as proven by the Ames Harris Desert Water Bag Company's spooky funk crawler \"People\", which has a paranoid, aciddamaged tone that heightens the intensity of the spoken midsection describing an urban hellscape.They also cut some excellent ballads in Memphis, principally Sharon Clark & the Product of Time's sweet Southern soul tune \"I'm Not Afraid of Love\" if you've followed the Eccentric Soul series, you'll notice that this fits right in with the stringladen female soul tunes they're so fond of showcasing, like Franciene Thomas' \"Too Beautiful to Be Good\". Perhaps the songs that sums it all up the best, though, is LaVel Moore's heavily orchestrated \"The World Is Changing\", which manages capture the monumental shifts American society underwent in the 60s and somehow stay hopeful about it.Stories like Allan Merry's are what this series is made for, and this is a very rewarding Eccentric Soul volume, both for the story and the amazing music. It's good to think that most of the Young Disciples are still out there somewhere, carrying the experience forward with them. East St. Louis could probably use the inspiration of knowing that if something like this could happen there once, it could conceivably happen again. As it stands, the Young Disciples remain a bright, if fleeting, chapter in the city's history, and the recorded legacy stands as proof that good people can make a difference when given the chance. "}