{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/12953/homepage_large.58ab5221.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Cheap Trick","title":"Budokan!","text":" If punk taught us that anyone can do it, then Cheap Trick showed that anyone could make it. Their 1979 commercial breakthrough, At Budokan, is not just one of rock's greatest live albums, but also one of its most triumphant underdog tales, an exemplar of preinternet viral phenomena: Originally planned as a cheaply produced, limitededition Japaneseonly release, the record eventually through steady import sales, airplay from discerning stateside DJs, and increasing requestline activity transformed these barcircuit workhorses into multiplatinum superstars. They really don't make 'em like this anymore.Of all the 1970s arenarock acts, Cheap Trick were arguably most in tune with punk's premium on threechord simplicity, rawpowered riffage, subversive lyrics, and plainclothes appearance. Sure, vocalist Robin Zander and bassist Tom Petersson were pretty boys, but unassumingly so; the real center of attention was Rick Nielsen, whose geekchic attire and hammy onstage antics made him a class clown in an era of goldengod guitar heroes. Meanwhile, Bun E. Carlos looked less like a rock'n'roll drummer than a veteran cop pulling desk duty. Though Cheap Trick's most visible recent moves rerecording Big Star's \"In the Street\" for \"That '70s Show\", performing the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band in its entirety at a 2007 Hollywood Bowl concert may paint them as a nostalgia act, they continue to produce quality albums (see: 2006's steadyasshegoes Rockford), and their influence on contemporary indie/altrock is as pronounced as ever: For the Foo Fighters, Weezer, Smashing Pumpkins, Ted Leo, the Raconteurs basically any band that's ever tried to weld a Beatlesque melody to a power chord all roads lead back to Budokan.However, this 3xCD/DVD, 30thanniversary box set makes for an overlong and somewhat unnecessary return trip. For casual/curious fans who just want their \"Surrender\" and \"I Want You to Want Me\", the original, compact 10track version of At Budokan (reissued on 180gram vinyl last month) remains the most convenient access point. For those who want the band's pop hits counterbalanced by more aggressive album cuts like \"ELO Kiddies\" and \"Auf Wiedersehen\", there's At Budokan: The Complete Concert, a 1998 2xCD remastered reissue that compiles the best performances from the Trick's two Budokan performances on April 28 and 30, 1978. And now we have Budokan! a repackaging of the reissue that contains the Complete Concert set, a third disc featuring an unedited performance of the complete April 28 show, plus a DVD document. Budokan! earns its newly acquired exclamation point with the DVD portion the second of the band's two Budokan performances was filmed for Japanese television and allegedly broadcast just once, making this footage a prized acquisition for longtime fans. Though contextual/crowd shots are nonexistent thereby denying us the opportunity to experience the full magnitude of the band's Beatlemanialike reception it's still a treat to see those iconic album photos come to life, and witness a band being promoted to arenarock big leagues right before your eyes, with no bullshit or pretense. (The closest thing to a pyro effect here is the stream of smoke emanating from Carlos' cigarettes.) Curiously, the video of \"Come On, Come On\" is excised from the main set and relegated to a bonus feature, perhaps because the footage was originally overlaid with an interview segment; it's appended by two clips from Cheap Trick's April 2008 return to Budokan (the Dream Policeera power ballad \"Voices\", and One on One's \"If You Want My Love\") that show them more aged and less limber, but with their harmonic fortitude intact. A retrospective interview featuring the band and its Japanese handlers provides additional backstory sobering reminiscences of faninduced rioting and hotelroom segregation that contrast with the celebratory spirit of the recordings. As a standalone item, the DVD would make for a great stocking stuffer, and a practical way to commemorate an anniversary that was already wellcommemorated 10 years ago. But to package it exclusively in a $50 boxset one that will ward off younger Cheap Trick newcomers while essentially saddling the diehards with another copy of The Complete Concert seems a bit churlish. For nonaudiophiles, the unedited April 28, 1978 audio disc provides only the most minor points of contrast a flubbed guitarsolo break during \"Come On, Come On\", a version of \"Surrender\" minus the familiar synth overdubs. Otherwise, the set list (even the stage banter) is identical to The Complete Concert, which, as per its design, already features the band's best Budokan performances. Perhaps the lure of a handsomely bound linernote 40page booklet (complete with an uncharacteristically humble shoutout from Gene Simmons) and souvenir poster will allow some fans to forgive this box set's redundancies — though judging by the complaints currently spreading online about the set's discscratching, slipcase packaging, they may have other issues. In any event, for a band whose greatest attribute was their economy, Budokan! feels excessive a repackaging trick that's not so cheap. "}