{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/12956/homepage_large.b01e1c34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Lil Wayne","title":"Dedication 3","text":" Lil Wayne's been calling himself the best rapper alive since way before anyone took the claim seriously. On Dedication 2, the second in the series of reputationcementing mixtapes Wayne made with DJ Drama, he explained: \"I am better than everybody. I'm a competitor. I hope everybody else feel the same way about their craft. If you do, it makes it better for the people.\" So that was it: In an era of hustlersnotrappers, Wayne was one of the few who took his occupation seriously, who put in 16hour days coming up with the sort of worddrunk, outthere punchlines that made the world take him seriously. In a few years' time, Wayne went from a goofy Southern kiddierapper to a force of nature.Fast forward to this year: Tha Carter III is the biggestselling album of 2008 and also one of the most acclaimed in part because Wayne put so much work in. Note the past tense: Wayne no longer has anything to prove, and Dedication 3, his new Drama mixtape, sounds like it.Wayne is very good at a few things: rapping, picking beats, making goofy facial expressions in videos. He's not especially good at playing guitar or singing or selecting rappers for his record label. But those other things seem to be monopolizing his attention these days. There's no guitar on Dedication 3, thank God, but we get a whole lot more of Wayne's offkey AutoTuned warbling than we get of his actual rapping, and he mostly leaves the rhyming to his Young Money Entertainment signees, which anyone who's heard Mack Maine's shockingly clumsy guestverse on the \"Got Money\" video knows is a bad thing. When Wayne does get around to rapping, he usually sounds like he's fried his brain on so much cough syrup that he can barely bring himself to stick to the beat or come up with more than one good line.This is a circa2008 DJ Drama mixtape, which means the beats, both new and vintage, will be topnotch and wellsequenced, but it also means Drama's own weedcarriers Willie the Kid and L.A. the Darkman will be along for the ride. The title track sets the tone: Over Drama associate Don Cannon's prettygreat beat for Outkast's \"Da Art of Storytelling, Part 4\", Wayne gargles out an unmemorable chorus while Willie, Mack Maine, and Gudda Gudda spit boringness; Wayne jumps on at the end for a quick afterthought of a verse. This is the first track, and it goes on for nearly seven minutes. Things don't get a lot better from there.Every bigname rapper these days has a crew of associates, but only a few T.I. and Kanye have ones worth hearing. But, hey, these guys need to rap somewhere, so it might as well be on a free online mixtape. Still this is a Dedication mixtape, and listening to all three of them in order tells a sad story. The last two featured Wayne, hungry and fearsome, ready to take over the world through whackedout genius and force of will. This time, he's barely paying attention. Example: \"Get Bizzy\". The track snatches the simple, spacey, orchestrahitheavy beat to V.I.C.'s \"Get Silly\", exactly the sort of lowbudget noveltyhit that the Wayne of two years ago would've just annihilated, the way he did to Dem Franchize Boyz' \"I Think They Like Me\" on Dedication 2 or DJ Unk's \"Walk It Out\" on Da Drought 3. This time he drools all over the track in a halfconscious AutoTuned slur, loses the beat a couple of times, comes up with exactly one slick line (\"Red scarf on my neck/ Red diamonds looking like red barf on my neck, uhh\"), then turns the whole thing over to the unbelievably shitty Plies soundalike Gudda Gudda. Epic fail.More bad decisions: Tyga, the squeakyvoiced younger cousin of Gym Class Hero Travis McCoy, gets pole position on Drumma Boy's gothically churning beat for Young Jeezy's \"Put On\" and he absolutely sucks. Nondescript protégé Nikki Minaj, meanwhile, gets to defile the beat to T.I.'s \"No Matter What\" so she can complain (in AutoTune, guh) about the haters she's not famous enough to have. And for the first time, a Wayne signee Jae Millz, journeyman veteran of the New York mixtape and battle circuits upstages his boss. Millz isn't a great rapper, but he's got a nobullshit monotone flow and a way with punchlines: \"Y'all nothing like me, fuck boy, don't be outlandish/ We gorillas in the mist, y'all just some kung fu pandas.\" Here and there, we get brief flashes of the truly nasty Wayne, but we have to wade through so much bullshit to find these gems that it's barely worth the effort. One of Wayne's most entertaining moments comes on a nonrapping skit where he's just talking about Sarah Palin and he even loses focus near the end of that.We've been here before. The first time Wayne started fucking around with AutoTune was on another nearunlistenable mixtape released near the end of last year, Empire's unlicensed Da Drought Is Over, Part 4. When I heard that, I wrote that Wayne might need to slow down, that his appetites and his volume of output were finally starting to bring down the quality of his work. Wayne pulled it together for Tha Carter III, and a handful of postalbum guestappearances (Drake's \"Ransom\", Keri Hilson's \"Turnin' Me On\") show that he's still a monster when he wants to be. But when he stops wanting it, we get bullshit like Dedication 3. "}