{"label":" Showoff","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/12968/homepage_large.0bd2033f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Statik Selektah","title":"Stick 2 the Script","text":" East Coast headknockrap needs its own DJ Khaled apparently, and Massachusetts DJ/producer Statik Selektah is that person. Just like the Miami loudmouth, Statik has a nice thing going, consistently releasing surprisingly enjoyable, guestcrammed compiations. Some crucial differences, though. Unlike Khaled, Statik mostly avoids screaming bullshit all over his own tracks. I'll also take Termanology, Statik's personalityfree rapping protégé, over Ace Hood, Khaled's personalityfree rapping protégé. And even though most of them are trapped in either majorlabel limbo or indielabel hell, Statik's guests generally sound like they're having more fun than the gazillionaires on the Khaled albums.Stick 2 the Script, Statik's sophomore effort, might not make too many yearend lists, but twothirds of it provides a remarkably solid listen thanks in large part to Statik's production. Statik's beats are mostly Premierinspired boombap, which nobody seems to do well anymore. But Statik knows what he's doing: scratchy choruses, choppedup drums, occasional flourishes of horn or guitar. Lead single \"To the Top (Stick 2 the Script)\" has a weird cutup hoteljazz beat that somehow stays propulsive because of those drums. The State Property halfreunion \"All 2gether Now\" has a great little ominous churn with fuzzedout synthsqueals over the top. And even the token Houstonrap track \"Get Out the Way\" stays with the boombap blueprint rather than shooting for imitation RapALot house production. In fact, the only time Statik leaves his wheelhouse is on the Gfunk experiment \"Cali Nights\", which is sort of a disaster.As for the guests, there's a big divide between the veterans who've actually had radio play and the newjack torchcarriers destined for obscurity. Older guys like Redman or CL Smooth have an innate understanding of how to mix technical skill with bigroom charisma. Jadakiss murders \"For the City\" with matteroffact coldness: \"Bullets, gunsmoke, and cocaine residue/ Leave me the fuck alone, that's what you better do.\" The State Property guys, who were flirting with stardom just a few years ago, come particularly animated, especially Peedi Crakk: \"I got a natural getatyou flow/ It's like a animal, a cannibal, call me Hannibal Crakker, whoa!\" And, on \"Mr. Popularity\", Kanye associate Consequence redeems a corny concept (he uses the word \"pop\" as much as possible) with pure plosiveexploding technique.As for the newer guys...meh. There's a whole lot of bitching about the current state of rap, mostly because guys like Saigon are mad it's not particularly hospitable to guys like, say, Saigon. \"Streets of MA\" is the allBoston possecut nobody outside of New England was anticipating. And if you ever wanted to hear a fortheladies track from random mixtape types like Skyzoo and Joell Ortiz, well, you're fucking insane and I'm scared of you, but there's one here.But even the lamer moments are mostly inoffensive, and they're over quickly. Stick 2 the Script's 18 tracks fly by in a brisk 53 minutes not even Termanology gets a chance to hog the mic too much. The record's mostly pure amber nostalgia there's even a Mad Rapper skit and it's not going to pull hiphop's focus off the South, but I wouldn't mind hearing a couple more of these Statik Selektah albums. That's something I can't say about DJ Khaled. "}