{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12988/homepage_large.227ad5b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Adventure","title":"Adventure","text":" Adventure's Benny Boeldt, like others of the Nintendo generation, draws inspiration from the 1980sera 8bit video game music of composers like Koji Kondo and Hip Tanaka. Game developers and composers have naturally moved on since that Golden Age, taking full advantage of increased storage and faster machines. If you play \"Rock Band\", you've certainly heard AC/DC's \"Let There Be Rock\" in crystal clarity, while EA Sports pumps out CDquality jock jams in all their recent titles. Still, the wonky buzzsaw of the chiptune aesthetic continues to draw hardcore fans of its retro sound.Crystal Castles, who've helped to kickstart the most recent 08(bit) conversation, were named after the Atari game but can't really be called chiptunes to these ears, they channel the electroclash movement with the judicious support of a few bygone beeps. Conversely, Benny Boeldt isn't really into video games these days, and he doesn't consider himself a chiptunes composer. But his debut record is heavily indebted to Sega and Nintendo themes. Bearing the same name as the popular Atari 2600 game, Adventure's selftitled fulllength explores a curious style that once required a composer to deftly balance melody, counterpoint, and rhythm with the constraints of a couple of simple pulse channels and bursts of random static.Perhaps fittingly, Boeldt looks to coopt this delicate process, wielding a simple sound wave as a doubleedged broadsword rather than a scalpel. His pieces, unfettered by the fourchannel restriction, charge forward with hypermelodic and extremely hooky passages, often imbuing a lyrical touch. Tracks like \"Travel Kid\" and closer \"Jurassic Park City\" recall the bubblegum abandon of the Human League or New Order (suggested overtly by the machinegun \"Blue Monday\" beat driving the latter). While Blade Runner samples float around \"Poison Diamonds\", a highpitched synth yearn skitters straight out of the Yellow Magic Orchestra playbook, perhaps expressing the same humanity jones as the replicants from the Ridley flick.Boeldt's tracks also suffer from an extreme case of attention deficit, rife with dizzingly arpeggiated passages that often breathe but just as often hyperventilate. By the time you get to the aptly named 8bit blues of \"Wild Wild Ride\", you've been pushpulled up and down the minor scale so much that you're checking yourself for internal organ damage. It's no surprise that Boeldt hails from the Baltimorebased Wham City collective, as he's got the same issues that sometimes trip up fellow Whammer Dan Deacon: losing the distinction between giddy maximalism and plain ol' too much. But it's best not to overthink Adventure. When you're in the car and you hear nearby drivers bumping jock jams or AC/DC, you can probably take pleasure in popping this in, because while they're only cruising up the street or down the highway, you're headed off to some distant, perilous, pixilated world. "}