{"label":" Monument","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12986/homepage_large.72d3adfc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Roy Orbison","title":"The Soul of Rock And Roll","text":" Roy Orbison didn't shake his hips. He didn't set his piano on fire. Didn't wear blue suede shoes. Didn't become a preacher, marry his cousin, or go to jail. He wasn't what you'd call handsome, at least not in the sublime way that Elvis wore his looks. He was neither a rebel nor a rabblerouser. He stood stock still and kept his head up. He sang about crying over girls, and his signature shades hid the tears in his eyes. He played a mean guitar, but sang a meaner ballad. He yearned and wept, but never moped. His stoic demeanor lent his tales of heartbreak a dignity that gave them verisimilitude and told his teenage listeners that all their confusion and pain all part of the culture, even if shunned by adults were real and worthwhile.Most efforts to laud Orbison, a firstgeneration rock'n'roller whose earliest hits were recorded at Sun Studio alongside Elvis, Johnny Cash, and Carl Perkins, tend to appraise him as the granddaddy of some current trend, like emo, when in fact he is, like Bruce Springsteen or Tom Waits, a more singular artist. With its natural quaver and multioctave range, his voice allowed him to do things other singers could not, and his best singles pair his stately vocals with equally ornate arrangements. However, if indie musicians wanted to shelve their copies of Pet Sounds and Born to Run for a few years and start taking notes on Orbison, not only would that make my job a whole lot more interesting, but The Soul of Rock and Roll would be the place for them to start.This 4xCD box set is the most expansive and exhaustive summary of Orbison's decadeslong career, which had its share of ups (the early 1960s, the late 80s) and downs (the 70s) and ended on an impossibly high note with his 1989 bestselling album Mystery Girl and his work with the Traveling Wilburys. Most Orbison comps begin at Sun Studio, with tender teenage hits \"Devil Doll\" and \"Ooby Dooby\" (Orbison may be the only singer who can make those two syllables not sound sexual and still sound interesting), but this set finds life before Memphis. Orbison was a guitar slinger with the Teen Kings in the early 50s, drawing from vocal groups, country and western, and rockabilly without really synthesizing them. Perhaps the most revealing track is \"Guitar Pull Medley\", a previously unreleased nineminute recording of Orbison, by request, ripping through covers like \"I Want You, I Need You, I Love You\" and \"That's All Right\" at a party, proving he could hold his own against his more popular labelmate Elvis. Orbison's cool and easy proficiency with so many songs contrasts with his companion's starryeyed demeanor. It sounds like a scene from Robert Altman's Nashville.The Soul of Rock and Roll is broken down primarily by decade a logical organizing principle even if it doesn't actually fit his career very precisely. Still, that means the second disc is far and away the best here, with a run of hits for Nashvillebased Monument Records that's about as close to perfect as possible. \"Uptown\", \"Only the Lonely\", \"Blue Angel\", \"In Dreams\", and \"Running Scared\" (a modified bolero) are grandiose and operatic, lushly arranged, cleverly recorded (all in one take, with no overdubs), and as genuinely moving as pop music can be. Cathedrals to heartbreak, these early Monument recordings represent not only the set's high point, but the heyday of Orbison's career and the era that defined the rest of his catalog. The rest of his 60s output follows the same template, as Orbison and producer Fred Foster give similar treatment to \"All I Have to Do Is Dream\", the gorgeous \"Blue Bayou\", and the Willie Nelsonpenned \"Pretty Paper\".The third disc covers Orbison's 70s output, but almost all of these songs predate that decade by several years. Following the deaths of his first wife in a motorcycle accident and two of his sons in a house fire, he spent most of the 70s away from the spotlight, but The Soul of Rock and Roll uses that downtime to argue convincingly that his strengths as a balladeer were matched by his prowess as a guitarist and his power as a performer. From 1963, his cover of \"Mean Woman Blues\", with its relentless beat, effervescent shalala backing vocals, and yakkety sax, actually swings, especially on his fiery guitar solo. And his take on Ray Charles' \"What'd I Say\", recorded live in Holland, stomps and shimmies like his early rockabilly material.The final chapter is far and away the most surprising, a plot twist that no one could have predicted: Instead of fading away like, say, Carl Perkins, Orbison launched an improbable lateinlife comeback that's all the more remarkable for breezily updating his signature style while sidestepping bland dinosaur rock. \"You Got It\" and \"She's a Mystery to Me\", both from his swan song Mystery Girl, show only a few new wrinkles in his voice, which add texture and authority. His new recordings of \"Oh Pretty Woman\" and \"In Dreams\", both for his 1987 greatest hits album, of course can't improve on the originals, but aren't the disasters most rerecordings turn out to be. And Orbison is perfectly at home with the Traveling Wilburys on \"Not Alone Anymore\", although his verse on \"Handle With Care\" makes that song a notable omission in this set.The worst I can say about The Soul of Rock and Roll is that the liner notes are particularly unrevealing, a missed opportunity. An artist like Orbison, who despite his success haunts the periphery of rock history, not the center, demands a more balanced and indepth approach that can contextualize his music without resorting to namedropping and can relate meaningful commentary without resorting to anecdote. Missing that textual component, the set loses some of its impact, but Orbison's songs at once modest and grandiose, showy and private provide all the testimony he needs.  "}