{"label":" Hospital Productions","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12993/homepage_large.432e6616.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Burning Star Core","title":"Challenger","text":" Burning Star Core dictator C. Spencer Yeh probably wasn't thinking of a productive, quasiprominent career in noise and drone when he dreamt up the name Burning Star Core. The Cincinnatibased outmusic impresario has been scattering releases over labels and formats since the turn of the century, in the process becoming one of the most reliably prickly artists in the genre. Increasingly, Yeh's albums have moved away from inthered amplifiers toward shaky, clattering landscapes. Challenger, one of BSC's most composed, coherent works, still manages a decadence and anger that belie Yeh's veteran status. Here he abandons the harsh industrial tones of recent releases and molds globular sound over expansive space.Yeh has never been an outandout noisemonster he's no Prurient or Kevin Drumm but there's a substantial difference between, to pull just one recent example, the dungeon sounds of \"A Curse on the Coast\" from last year's Blood Lightning 2007 and Challenger's \"Mysteries of the Organ\". With its slowly oscillating notes and sawing melody, \"Mysteries\" might fit on a more subtle electronic record by someone like Jan Jelinek, or at least it would've until someone pushed that heavily treated piano down a staircase near the fourminute mark. Challenger presents Yeh as an active composer rather than a feverish minion of noise. The shift likely has something to do with instrumentation. Rarely on Challenger will you hear the recognizable slashes of Yeh's instrument of choice, the violin. Previous BSC albums have felt like the result of several folks huddled too closely in a room, waiting out chaos. But while it's easy enough to make deep black noise when you're holding down an organ key and waiting for a tube amp to do something interesting, it's a different game entirely to sprinkle crackling loops over sculpted ambience.The change can be seen on \"Mezzo Forte\". Yeh revisits a favored pastime manipulating syllabic utterances but does so with more clarity, turning a backthroat hum into a lapping, nearrhythmic trance by midtrack. A pleasantly thumbed piano adds structure and melody to the final minute.The final track, \"Un Coeur en Hiver\", contains plenty of the industrial hum whirring belts, sparking metal that has characterized BSC's crassest moments, but Yeh neuters their effects with light synth touches. Yeh even momentarily suspends the clatter, allowing swaths of unfettered, majorkey synthesizer to float through the speakers. \"Hopelessly Devoted\" gathers around a lowenergy drone and a voice treated beyond recognition. \"No Memories, No Plans\", bleak in both title and execution, consists of hundreds of tiny clacking noises and some background street noise; it's either a fantastic amateur fireworks show or a sonic recreation of Wile E. Coyote landing in a bin of Acme mousetraps.Challenger doesn't quite rewrite the BSC playbook, but it does represent a shift in tone and process that feels both welcome and promising. Fitter, happier, more productive? Perhaps not, but a grown man can't live on drone alone. For perhaps the first time in his decadelong career, Yeh's music seeks clarity. "}