{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13005/homepage_large.9a9836d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Clipse","title":"Road to Till the Casket Drops","text":" The first skit on the new Clipse mixtape is a genuinesounding voicemail message from actress Lauren London. \"Can you make something for the girls?\" she asks. \"Like, we so pretty in our Louis Vuitton?\" One track later, the brothers Thornton repurpose the airily gorgeous beat from Slim's \"So Fly\" to snarl nihilistically empty sextalk: \"Not do demean 'em, but that's just how we seen 'em/ Trading bitches off since balling was buying Zimas.\" As the track ends, Pusha T cackles viciously: \"See, sis? We do girl records, right?\" Watch what you wish for, I guess.Thing is, once upon a time, Clipse were able to do girl records, or something like them, anyway, in a way that didn't just turn the songs into morbid jokes. With breakout single \"Grindin'\", Malice and Pusha established the deadeyed coketalk they're still running with six years later. But they also made \"When the Last Time\", one of this century's greatest club jams. On that and a handful of other Lord Willin' tracks songs released in 2002, when the duo had something to do with the commercial rap landscape Clipse seemed totally genuine talking about how club night was one of the reasons they loved life, and their cold monotones worked just as well on frothy dancepop tracks as on harshly mechanical toughguy shit. That was them on Justin Timberlake's \"Like I Love You\", after all.That Clipse is gone now. In the intervening years, they've left rap's mainstream behind completely, becoming internet cult heroes by diligently and eloquently pursuing two basic subjects: selling drugs and the money that comes with it. This has made for some ferociously exciting music, as on longdelayed sophomore album Hell Hath No Fury and the nowclassic We Got It 4 Cheap, Vol. 2 mixtape. But they've been hammering away at those two subjects with singleminded focus for years now, and the wear is starting to show.It wouldn't be fair to call Road to Till the Casket Drops, their new mixtape, a disappointment. After all, this is a brisk halfhour of free new music from one of rap's greatest groups. The Got It 4 Cheap, Vol. 3 mixtape, released earlier this year, dwelled hard on Fury's disappointing sales and leaned a bit too much on underwhelming original beats. But now they're back on their Vol. 2 shit, hijacking uptothemoment rapradio fodder (featherweight synthtracks like Ryan Leslie's \"Addiction\" and Ron Browz's \"Pop Champagne\", clattering trunkrattle shit like \"Swagger Like Us\" and T.I.'s \"Swing Ya Rag\"). More often than not, they blow away the originals. ReUp Gang associate Sandman, the weakest link in the extended group, has left, and so now we get an undiluted blast of pure Thornton brothers along with a couple of guest appearances from ReUp survivor AbLiva, whose verse over the \"Pop Champagne\" beat is a thing of breathless beauty. And Malice and Pusha just have incredible voices, precise and almost technically fussy flows that can drip with contempt like nobody since circa1999 JayZ.So yeah, a new Clipse mixtape is always a good thing, well worth your halfhour and zero dollars. But Road to Till the Casket Drops finds Clipse spinning their wheels a bit. That's understandable; when you've spent years working hard to come up with convoluted cocaine punchlines, it makes sense that the well would be running dry. But every previous Clipse release, official and otherwise, was so jammed with great lines that it could be tough picking out moments to quote. On this one, the best line comes on the first track. Pusha: \"It's the hood's Obama, shoveling McCain/ Out the project windows, the drama's insane.\" Pusha aims a few unwieldy darts at Lil Wayne, which seems a bit pointless; only Wayne is going to end Wayne's hot streak. \"Feds Taking Pictures\" starts with a long list of shoutouts to specific drug dealers, which isn't all that interesting unless you happen to be one of those drug dealers.Again, I'm mostly just quibbling here. This is a quickie mixtape intended to celebrate the launch of Clipse's new clothing line Play Cloths, which is unfortunately saddled with both one of the worst names and worst logos in rapperclothingline history. As a quickie mixtape, it beats the everliving fuck out of virtually all its mixhut competition. A lot of this stuff was probably recorded on a tight schedule, relatively tossedoff. But nothing these guys did used to sound tossedoff. And maybe by the time they release their next album (next year, lord willin'), Clipse should look beyond the corner and make a few tracks that don't revolve around white powder. Like, for instance, maybe some girl songs. Just a thought. "}