{"label":" Atlantic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13002/homepage_large.b92a3068.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Justice","title":"A Cross the Universe","text":" A month ago, a photo surfaced of Justice supposedly doing their live set without their MIDI controller plugged in, which led people to conclude that they were perpetrating some kind of fraud. After listening to their new live album A Cross the Universe and watching the hourlong tour documentary included with it I remain skeptical to this possibility: Maybe the photo's from one of their more disorganized sound checks, or maybe the plug just fell out on its own midset. The album gives the former impression, since they sound too dynamic and momenttomoment to be a canned DAT fronted by a couple of pantomiming phonies. And the latter scenario seems likely after watching the documentary, which depicts Xavier de Rosnay and Gaspard Augé as a couple of disastercourting goofballs flying by the seats of their pants drunk on America, beset by mishaps, and surrounded by lunatics. Of course cords are going to just fall out; everything else about Justice seems to go haywire from time to time.So A Cross the Universe is a fairly interesting take on one of the more controversial electronic acts in years interesting, at least, if you're not entirely concerned with a vivid and richsounding document of their live show. The funny thing is, neither the album or the documentary portions of A Cross the Universe do the most ideal job of capturing their set, which seems like an intentional antihubris move on their part. Justice are still pretty novel, they're still relative outsiders, and they're still interested in being enigmatic what's there to do now that they're already pushing a live album right after their debut? So the documentary's all quickcut behindthescenes hijinx with only brief flashes of actual live performance, while the album comes close to sounding like a straightup lowbudget bootleg.The concert portion, recorded in San Francisco in March 2008, is a problem if you're not on board with the idea that the full, epic spectacle of a Justice show can be reduced to an audio quality that sounds slightly better than a YouTube clip. This was a deliberate choice, with the soundboard bypassed for a setup that simply placed several microphones on the stage. The result is an album that seems to be dominated as much by the audience as by the music. It makes for some exhilarating moments: \"We Are Your Friends (Reprise)\" is a perfect callandresponse, and the pops that accompany each moment of recognition give a few vicarious thrills; that first moment of apeshit glee when the Godzilla horns of \"Genesis\" crest over the horizon, quickly followed by an even bigger explosion when the first beat drops, is just about enough to justify the whole setup.But with a fidelity that often reduces the cheering of the crowd to an enthusiasticsounding static in the noisier moments and makes the notoriously midrangehappy material from † sound even more abrasive, A Cross the Universe sacrifices a lot of listenability. Next to something like Daft Punk's Alive 2007 which, amongst its many fine qualities, is a hell of a headphone album A Cross the Universe is all loudness and no warmth, and sometimes it gets almost unbearably grating; your first impulse while listening to a concert recording from an electronic dance music act shouldn't be to turn the volume down.But if you can ignore a recording illsuited to handle the force of Justice's arenasized sound, you'll at least get to hear them find interesting ways to reinvent and refresh their relatively sparse repertoire. Nearly 17 minutes of the set is devoted in some way or fashion to the twopart \"Phantom\" (which gets a \"Part 1.5\" for good measure here), and that mysterious intelligible vocoder hook gets dissected, dicedup, and redistributed over beats that are both more rubbery and more claustrophobically dense than the album version. \"D.A.N.C.E.\" is even more radically altered, slowing to a crawl in its first half, then coming out with a more aggressive snarl behind it during the second just barely standing on the good side of the \"subvert/ruin\" line, trading its childlike euphoria for a teenage sneer. And if \"Stress\" sounded like a tense, suffocating hornet attack on †, here it's changed into a more wideopen, airplanehangarsized anthem, its needling electronic strings transformed into fullfledged Bernard Herrmanncaliber orchestration.The documentary DVD that comes packaged with the album, directed by music video creators Romain Gavras (\"Stress\") and SoMe (\"DVNO\", \"D.A.N.C.E.\"), doesn't offer much for those interested in a live Justice show it's mostly concerned with the crazy shit that happens to them between gigs: Gaspard has a Vegas wedding to a woman who disappears the next day, Xavier sings a thickly accented \"Under the Bridge\" to a very uncomfortablelooking Anthony Kiedis, their gunobsessed tour manager takes them shooting, and all three of them get arrested at the end after Xavier clocks a belligerent, threatening drunk over the head with a bottle. (It also includes one of my new favorite musicdoc moments of all time, where Gaspard and Xavier pose for photos with a couple Hooters waitresses as the Count Five's \"Psychotic Reaction\" chugs away in the background. The waitresses are all smiles; Justice couldn't look more disconnected and bored with their surroundings.) What few glimpses there are of their concerts are brief, quicklycut and, like the album, largely focused on picking up the audience reactions. A Cross the Universe isn't close to anyone's definitive idea of what a document of a live Justice show should be, but it's a diverting, sometimesbizarre look into the first phase of fame for an aughtsera cult pop phenomenon.  "}