{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13012/homepage_large.8bda802e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Fennesz","title":"Black Sea","text":" Christian Fennesz is one of a handful of people from experimental electronic music's late1990s halcyon days still kicking around. Where others have disappeared (Oval), taken on a curatorial role (Gas), or resigned themselves to armslength abstraction (Autechre), Fennesz has evolved his aesthetic and found new avenues of expression. In the last few years he's released two albums with Ryuichi Sakamoto, collaborated with Mike Patton and guitarist Burkhard Stangl, knocked out some remixes, and created music for dance and films. He's been busy, but people who don't follow this music closely probably haven't noticed. They've been waiting for a new solo album, preferably something that might cross over from the \"electronic music\" racks in the way that 2001's monumental Endless Summer did. But Fennesz's unhurried approach to his solo work has yielded dividends. Since he takes so long between proper Fennesz records, the release of a new one still feels like an event. Black Sea, which again finds Fennesz working primarily with guitar and computer, is his first solo album since 2004's Venice, the followup to Endless Summer. It's tempting to compare this record with its predecessor based on the characteristically striking cover art, once again by Touch label founder Jon Wozencroft. Where the Venice sleeve featured a lone rowboat bobbing in rich and impossibly blue water, Black Sea sports a shot of an industrial skyline across a filthybottomed straight at low tide. The image and title suggest that we're in for something colder and comparatively grim, and even though that's only partly true, such subtle shading via imagery has always been important with Fennesz albums. What is apparent right off the bat is that Black Sea finds Fennesz painting on an especially large canvas. While some may hope for a partial return to the poplike miniatures of Endless Summer, tracks that could be thought of as \"songs,\" these feel more like classical pieces sweeping and symphonic and patiently unfolding. It's not just that several tracks are longer, with three running over eight minutes. Fennesz has also sequenced the record to give parts of it a suitelike feel. Opener \"Black Sea\" bleeds into \"The Colour of Three\" without a pause, joining the tracks with the sort of howling, finely granulated drone he specializes in. Together the cuts add up to an 18minute epic, one that moves from stirring rumbles of low static to a buzzing assault that sounds like it was recorded inside a helicopter's engine to a resigned acoustic guitar figure that feels like wind brushing past an abandoned building. In other words it feels like a ride, like the music transports you bodily from one place to the next rather than creating an \"environment.\" And it's best heard loud when given lots of attention. Indeed, Black Sea is an intensely physical album, even for Fennesz, which is ironic considering that he's always put digital signifiers glitches, pops, crackles in the foreground. The guitar, a common thread throughout, offers an anchor of familiarity. But it's the relentless experiments with the emotional possibilities of texture experiments only possible with a computer that give the album its weight. So the physicality is focused in very precise and specific ways. Where Fennesz's more abstract early material could be wild and chaotic you pictured an unsteady hand on the lever, struggling to control the torrent of sound he's at a place now where everything is extremely careful and ordered, with nothing left to chance. This cerebral approach doesn't diminish the impact of the raw, enveloping moments on Black Sea's second half. \"Glide\", a standout that ranks with anything Fennesz has created, gets over primarily on carefully sculpted volume as it builds to a hairraising peak. An edit of a live collaboration with fellow Touch artist Rosy Parlane, \"Glide\" proceeds along a single line for nine minutes, as a tense held chord is obscured by a cloud of white noise. Both the prickly wash of sound and the underlying drone gather steadily until the piece pivots on a bass tone and then finally bursts open like an overfilled balloon, allowing a gleaming synth, almost shocking in its tenderness, to come pouring out. It's here that Fennesz's mastery of pacing and structure, honed over the last decade, is so apparent. The following \"Vacuum\", a melodic soundscape piece that sounds like it could have come from Venice, is pleasant but comparatively slight, while \"Glass Ceiling\" combines thin, piercing tones, belllike figures, and processed guitar in an appealingly disorienting way. The closing \"Saffron Revolution\" feels like a summing up of the record's best moments, as it gradually moves from cavernous gurgles, dissonant, sawing chords, and spidery bits of guitar into an immense drone that completely dominates whatever space its heard in. In a sense Black Sea feels like a more selfconsciously \"sophisticated\" version of Fennesz, as if his time playing concert halls and opera houses inspired him to compose music suitable for such grand settings. But he's a composer up to the task and Black Sea ultimately proves to be worth the long wait. And in the end, the wider scope suits him. In 1995, Fennesz debuted on Mego with an EP called Instrument, which found him probing the musical properties of the guitar/computer interface. Each of its four pieces sounded like the work of a guy tinkering with a single idea, seeing how vibrating strings and feedback might be bent and twisted to create a particular effect. Despite the thick force of these tracks, Instrument is smallscale music, a scribbled note passed from one insider to the next. Heard next to it, Black Sea is positively huge while also being much more accessible. You get a sense here of how far Fennesz has come, how far his music reaches, and the unexplored possibilities that still exist. "}