{"label":" AWR","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13019/homepage_large.cced2f96.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"I'll Stay 'Til After Christmas","text":" Santa Claus, not the Grinch, stole indie rock. Sure, the novelty of perennial sadsacks Low celebrating the happiest time of the year on 1999's Christmas EP got some of the elves' pointy ears perked. And in 2004, even Charlie Brown would've rocked DusttoDigital's Where Will You Be Christmas Day anthology of pre1960 curios, a fine album as anticommercial as I'm told indie culture once was. As recently as 2006, though, Pitchfork's Rob Mitchum could, with a relatively straight (bearded!) face, call Sufjan Stevens \"something like the bizarro GG Allin\" for releasing a box set devoted to what, \"in the photonegative world of indie rock morality...might be the most obscene concept possible\": Christmas. Peace and love were for poseurs, or, worse, hippie jamband dudes.We were so much older then; I guess we're younger than that now. I'll Stay 'Til After Christmas, Force Field PR chief Daniel Gill's new digitalonly compilation of indieoriented yuletide carols, comes out in a year when indiefriendly bands as big as Weezer and Coldplay or as modest as the Raveonettes and the Boy Least Likely To are all releasing seasonal tunes. The Hives faced off in \"A Christmas Duel\" with Cyndi Lauper; Stephen Colbert sang about the miracle of drugs with Willie Nelson. The Flaming Lips, who acknowledged the holiday on 2003's \"A Change at Christmas (Say It Isn't So)\", are now spending a longawaited Christmas on Mars, while Jim Jones, Juelz Santana, and Skull Gang are working on a sort of sequel to 2006's A Dipset Christmas.Like Hard to Find a Friend's Peace on Earth Vol. II compilation, though which benefits the Children of Uganda Fund, and features Oxford Collapse, among many others I'll Stay 'Til After Christmas goes to a cause greater than commercialism; Amnesty International gets all the proceeds of the release. The idea for the album apparently came from a tradition Gill and his wife, Reda Rountree, started several years ago of making Christmasmusic compilations for friends and family. And don't look for Sufjanstyle reversetransgressiveness: The songs on I'll Stay 'Til After Christmas meet the holiday from a place as weary and conflicted as we all are.They're frequently quite good, too. Two reimagined modern Christmas classics bookend the album: Au Revoir Simone remake A Charlie Brown Christmas's \"Christmas Time Is Here\" into a halting, snowflakepretty indie pop tune bringing to mind the Postmarks, while Belong's Turk Dietrich dismembers Elvis's \"Blue Christmas\" in a way previous \"Blue Christmas\"coverer Bright Eyes could never drink enough purple stuff to imagine. (Lil Wayne, on the other hand...) There's sadness in the air: No Kids bend genders as they stoically face \"Another Winter in This Summer Town\", from the 2006 musical Grey Gardens, and Postal Service member Jimmy Tamborello's Figurine evoke the plainspoken duets of Yo La Tengo over chattering electronics on decent breakup anthem \"The Holidays Behind Us\". If nothing here is likely to enter the canon of shopping malls and Delilah specials like Mariah Carey's undeniable \"All I Want for Christmas Is You\", well, that's more befitting the spirit of Charlie Brown (and indie culture) anyway.I'll Stay 'Til After Christmas can also do traditional. My Brightest Diamond's reading of standard \"Nature Boy\" belongs in a long line of haunting, vocaldriven Christmas songs that still put me to sleep, but her powerful performance makes the closing maxim pack an extra wallop (yeah, yeah, it's the song from Moulin Rouge). Blitzen Trapper and Arthur & Yu turn in solid folkie efforts, though only one makes reference to Steve McQueen (full disclosure: I've known Blitzen's nowmanager since before Christmas 1989). Sure, a few of the tracks are just soso, including probably the sharpest left turn: Au's seasick \"I'll Be Home for Christmas\", a bold idea that doesn't quite work. But then there's Sally Shapiro's winsome 2007 favorite \"Anorak Christmas (Piano Mix)\", a rosycheeked synthpop take on all that love and joy crap that probably still makes some aging indie puritans gag. Hark! The herald angel sings. "}