{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13009/homepage_large.cc3bdcbe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"The Raveonettes","title":"Beauty Dies EP","text":" In the wake of Lust Lust Lust one of their strongest albums the Raveonettes quickly returned with a series of digitalonly EPs most notably October's Beauty Dies, and the holiday title Wishing You a Rave Christmas. The first of this series was three aggressive remixes of Lust tunes, highlighted by Danish bigwig Trentemøller; alas, it was just a betweenrelease stopgap. A little stronger was the second of the batch, the shoegazelathered and electronicallygoosed Sometimes They Drop By, which carried a whiff of experimental tunes that didn't fit on the proper album.But on these two newer EPs, singerguitarists Sune Rose Wagner and Sharin Foo have concocted a whipsmart formula that blends several of their past album's best charms reverbheavy rock riffs, Jesus & Mary Chain fuzz, girlgroup songcraft, shoegaze atmospherics, and the noise of Suicide. The result: Two extended players that solidly stand alone. Lust succeeded this year by adding muscle to the group's sometimes overly produced, sometimes authenticityobsessed 1950s bikerfilm swagger. Like Lust, these new EPs find the band striking a balance between Whip It On's straightforward simplicity and aural ruckus and Pretty in Black's clean and stately Everly Brothers homages. Beauty Dies track \"Black White\" kicks off with a backslapping snare hit, serpentine bass and guitar, and inunison breathy vocals. \"Here Comes the End\" features a loopy tranquil noise intro like 90s spacerock unit Flying Saucer Attack that sways to a bouncy rhythm and Sune's Link Wraywrapped axwork. Balancing distortion and cleaner sounds, the hazy or overdriven bits serve as pickmeups or textural enhancement rather than full bore sheets of noise. Even the psychtinged \"The Thief\" keeps the nimble, cleaner guitar frontandcenter while the lysergic clouds hover in back. EP highlight \"Young and Beautiful\" a spritual cousin to the Psychedelic Furs winks to the early 80s with its driving Joy Divisionesque bass and creepycool synth line.Unsurprisingly, these Phil Spector denizens and friends of girlgroup icon Ronnie Spector also love them some holiday tunes. In 2003, the Raveonettes released the gogo, pillpoppin' romp \"The Christmas Song\" with lyrics about snow, santa, and time spent with loved ones. Wishing You a Rave Christmas also features its share of sleigh bells, snowmen, and sass. A cover of \"Christmas (Baby Please Come Home)\" is haunted by a ghostly synth whistling through the wind. \"Christmas Ghosts\" follows a standard ShangriLaslike song structure, with arpeggiated guitar chords and Sune's \"lover don't go\" pleadings. The most playful of the bunch is \"Come On Santa\" with its bells, jangley clean guitars, and marching drum snare rolls. Adding to the appeal of these paired down yet still bold tunes is the brevity of the EP even a highoctane record Lust Lust Lust can sometimes get tiresome over its 12 tracks. By contrast, Beauty Dies and Wishing You a Rave Christmas are nice, tidy stocking stuffers. "}