{"label":" ZTT","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13029/homepage_large.2f1f48f5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Ewing","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Zang Tumb Tuum: The ZTT Box Set","text":" The story of Zang Tumb Tuum is one of pop's great fairytales. The hottest producer in Britain (Trevor Horn) starts his own record label and recruits an NME writer (Paul Morley) as ideologue and ideas man. Backed up with engineering skills and business savvy, the fledgling label proceeds to score two of the biggest UK hits of the 1980s with Frankie Goes to Hollywood's \"Relax\" and \"Two Tribes\". Thanks to Horn's thunderously clean hiNRG production, Morley's skill at marketing and conceptualization, and the sleazy charisma of Frankie singer Holly Johnson, these were monumental records: singles as highimpact media events. Leading off this 25th anniversary record label retrospective, they still sound brilliant today.Frankie's awesome bluster, however, wasn't typical of what early ZTT records were trying to achieve. The label's aesthetic was at its most striking and successful when fusing the art theory of early 20th century Europe with the drive and gloss of mechanized 80s pop. They incorporated Dada, Futurism, expressionist cinema, and chanson into pop gestures in ways that felt dynamic, even natural. As Morley initially given free rein to shape the label's image wrote, \"Can you imagine what the Futurists would have done with a Fairlight [synthesiszer]?\" That was the ZTT idea in a nutshell. The band Propaganda, and Horn's own group Art of Noise, were its fullest expressions. Art of Noise made jokey, jerky pop concrète and found themselves adored by American electro pioneers. Propaganda made forbiddingly expensive synthpop: their outrageously dramatic \"Dr Mabuse\" is the ultimate example of the ZTT sound. Both groups are well represented here.Morley's impact on ZTT peaked in 1985 with the release of Frankie's first album, and by 1988 he had mostly severed his ties with the label. Dividing ZTT's history into the Morley and postMorley era might seem like playing along with the writer's own conceits, but the rapid decline in quality of the music on this box set backs it up. With the exception of 808 State whose 1989 \"Pacific\" was the last important single the label released little of the postMorley material here is memorable. Morley's gradual estrangement from ZTT was more a symptom of its shifting priorities than a cause, but even so there's a spark of absurd inspiration that left with him. This isn't to say the youthful label had been infallible you might admire their cheek, but that won't make you sit through the truly execrable Das PsychOh! Rangers more than once. (Sigue Sigue Sputnik stole all their ideas, claims the lavish accompanying booklet rather desperately).On this evidence ZTT in the 90s and 00s has been paying a 20year penance for its brief incarnation as Britain's most interesting record label. Discs Two and Three showcase its remarkable ability to observe a trend and sign its least intriguing exponents: There are few more workmanlike guitar bands than Ireland's the Frames or ignorably competent rave crews than Shades of Rhythm. The set suggests there aren't many undiscovered gems in the ZTT vault: Instead it offers a kind of alternate history of British rock and dance, one told in a dull monotone and with all the good bits stripped out. ZTT's newest hitmaker, David Jordan, makes a lumpy blend of worldpop in search of an opening ceremony to call its own. The idiotic campfire stomp of his \"Sun Goes Down\" is several sensibilities away from the sharpness and ambition of a Propaganda. The box set's audio component ends with Seal, ZTT's most successful postFrankie project, whose songs show that Trevor Horn can still do sumptuous, even when there are no ideas to animate the work.For unheralded delights in the ZTT Box Set you have to stick to the first disc, or the fourth, a DVD of the label's best videos. Early signings like chanteuse Anne Pigalle and minimalist composer Andrew Poppy make more sense on screen, and it's amusing seeing Johnny Depp act a barfly in a Shane McGowan promo. Best of all is the Art of Noise's hilarious and terrifying video for \"Close (To the Edit)\" band members smash the bourgeois instruments of the classical past while a freakish child mimes in cutup motion to their Fairlightdriven future. Back on the first CD, familiar hits rub shoulders with MC Tunes vs. 808 State's \"Tunes Splits the Atom\" a Britrap brag rolling on a wellpicked Stone Roses sample and Act's \"Snobbery and Decay\".A collaboration between Propaganda's Claudia Brücken and synthpop pioneer Thomas Leer, Act did nothing commercially, but this swirling, magnificently overripe single was the last lost masterpiece of the label's glory years. Brücken's haughty cabaret delivery revels in the decadence of wealth even as she sings its downfall \"Property, poverty, an unstable economy in decay!\" Like Zang Tumb Tuum itself, \"Snobbery and Decay\" was ambitious and ridiculous, grand and pretentious in equal measure: It was to be the last release in the label's Action Series, its opening salvo of pop records that had included Frankie and the Art of Noise. ZTT could not have asked for a finer farewell: Such a pity that it wasn't one. "}