{"label":" Honest Jon's","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13020/homepage_large.239bbc2e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Give Me Love: Songs of the Brokenhearted - Baghdad 1925-1929","text":" The Iraq War is a cataract in our understanding of the nation of Iraq and its modern history. It clouds the way we view and think about the country to the extent that we in the United States are blinded to anything beyond the violence of the last few years and the atrocities of the Saddam Hussein era. The obscuring effect of recent events leads me to believe that Honest Jon's Give Me Love might be the most important archival compilation of the year. Outside of a very small number of performers, including oudist Munir Bashir and jazz musician Amir ElSaffar, very little Iraqi music has ever made an impact internationally. Indeed, for most of the 20th century the popular music of Iraq and most of the rest of the Arab world lived completely within the shadow of Lebanese and especially Egyptian artists.This compilation, then, represents one of a precious few attempts to provide a clear window into the cultural life of a widely misunderstood place the Iraq of the late 1920s, during a period of British hegemony in the region that began when the Ottomans were driven out of Mesopotamia during the First World War. The Gramophone Company and its subsidiary His Master's Voice HMV today were the first major companies to make recordings in 1925. (In the pursuit of record buyers' money the world over, Gramophone unwittingly provided one of the greatest cultural services of the 20th century by sending its recording engineers across the globe to document local musics I'd give a lot to be allowed several weeks in a hypothetical Gramophone vault.) Others quickly followed, including Polyphone, Baidaphon, Odeon, and Columbia, but all the recordings included here are drawn from HMV's nearly 900 78 rpm sides, all made from 1925 to 1929.When approaching this compilation, it's important to remember something that's true of records from all eras: the recording medium is a part of the music. In today's studio, you might have 64 tracks, 20 different kinds of microphones, and an infinite amount of extra gear your can pile onto a record. Then, they had a mechanical recording device with a horn that the musicians had to be carefully arranged around to get the right mix of sounds. The dawn of electrical recording was right around 1925; by 1926, it was the norm in most of the world. But the liners here state pretty plainly that most of these records were made without microphones, and I frankly don't know enough of the difference to argue the point. What I can tell you is that this disc is nearly devoid of the surface crackle of 78s, and the sound is very clear. But one shouldn't expect a modern range of frequency response, as the lowend of performances rarely registered well on 1920s recordings.What you will hear are impassioned performances, instrumental and vocal, from some of the most wellregarded performers in Baghdad of the era. Most of them are Jewish for various reasons, Iraq's religious minorities dominated the country's music prior to the 1950s, when the vast majority of Christians and essentially all the Jews fled. This exodus began during World War II after a proNazi coup d'etat and subsequent pogrom. Audiences were split by gender public performances for men by women were looked down upon, and many, though not all, female singers were recruited from brothels, which was another barrier to respect. The few recordings by women included here have same melismatic fire as their male counterparts, though, and nearly every track has the characteristic Iraqi slowness that makes the country's music distinct in spite of obvious Egyptian, Persian, and Indian influences. The other caution for modern listeners is not to expect the kind of hookfilled instant gratification we're used to today this is music you need to soak in and feel, from the aching love songs to the frenetic instrumental taqsims.The ornamental vocals mask often straightforward lyrics, which translate to phrases such as \"I wait for my lover on tenterhooks,\" \"Since you left me my eyes are on the brink of shutting down for good,\" and \"Short of dying, how can I get you out of mind?\" Songs of the brokenhearted indeed. The instrumentation consists of small ensembles, with violin, oud (an Arabic lute played with a fluttering, staccato technique), mutbij (a wooden double flute with a wailing, nasal tone), qanun (a type of zither) and hand percussion. Some songs include small choirs positioned far from the horn. This was an urban type of arrangement, and many rural songs were transposed to these ensembles for recording purposes it's important to note that these weren't field recordings, but rather popular music recordings intended for a very competitive marketplace.I have a few small issues with the compilation itself as a package while the liner notes paint a vivid picture of 1920s Baghdad and provide substantial background, they also don't include any recording notes for individual tracks, or even Gramophone catalog numbers, which is the kind of information collectors of this music like to have. There's also no real account of the reasoning behind the track selection out of the 900 available, why these, in this order? Sometimes knowing the compilers' organizing principle can be illuminating. Those concerns aside, though, this is a compelling peek at the soul of Iraq that's been so long obscured to us by the fog of war. "}