{"label":" Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13026/homepage_large.b7786973.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Nina Simone","title":"To Be Free: The Nina Simone Story","text":" There are two types of maverick artists: the ones who adopt different styles as a way of switching costumes, and the ones who take a variety of musical concepts and subvert them wholly to their own ideas, and their own identities. Nina Simone was clearly the latter. Drawing on a wide swath of her catalog, from her first recording session to one of her last, producer Richard Seidel demonstrates how boldly she seized any song that caught her ear, as she marches through Duke Ellington, Kurt Weill, torch songs, folk songs, and the pop and rock hits of her day. A Julliardtrained pianist who played clubs while harboring an ambition to be a composer, Simone scored hits with a label that had to cede total creative control before she'd sign on their dotted line. Her performances were spontaneous, her mood impetuous and imperious. It's as hard to boil down the many facets of Simone's career as to romanticize the rough edges. To Be Free succeeds because it doesn't even try. Disc One is the most varied. A reading of Ellington's \"Mood Indigo\" from her first studio session opens the set, and introduces Simone as a smart jazz singer and a pianist with fingers of steel. She's unpredictable from her earliest cuts, with her playing erupting into sudden bursts of forte while she sings each lyric as if she's only just deciding what she thinks of it. Her voice is low and rich but its power, proven on tracks like \"I Put a Spell on You\", lies in its sudden intensity; and on the live tracks that make up roughly half the set, we hear a nightclub vet's knack for sensing every twitch in the crowd's mood, and a diva's gift for ignoring them at her whim. Her bloodcurdling performance of Weill's \"Pirate Jenny\" sears anyone who would ever think of the protagonist as less than a human being. She probably would have sung it the same way no matter what was happening in the Deep South, but it marks one of the earliest times she addressed the civil rights movement.  Disc Two covers the crucial period from 196869, starting with a live performance of \"Mississippi Goddam\" recorded days after the murder of Dr. King. \"I'm not about to be nonviolent, honey!\" Simone cracks at one point, and she follows the statement with a laugh: Simone's no militant, but her resistance ain't passive, or saintly.Instead, it's proud. By the late 60s Simone reveals herself as a hell of a singer for a rock band: you can hear it over the fierce \"Save Me\" and \"Revolution,\" and she sings 1968's \"Ain't Got NoI Got Life\" with every ounce of her body. And rebel or no, she was also on top of the pop trends, and knew the right artists to cover. The backing vocals on \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\" and \"Poppies\" date the performances, but her Bob Dylan covers are often exquisite especially \"Just Like Tom Thumb's Blues\", which melts the original's rambling blues into a reverie.On Disc Three, the tunes get funkier, the grooves run longer, and the theaters are larger. The rambling but rousing centerpiece of her lateperiod disc is a 20minute \"My Sweet Lord\" that segues in and out of a solo reading of \"Today Is a Killer\" and ends with Simone's cry that the Lord \"is a killer.\" (Even He can't escape her wrath.) But as the disc wears on, the performances start to sound exhausted, until they trail off in the early 70s. For context, you can turn to the DVD, which contains an edgy documentary from 1970. This TV special features a candid interview interspersed with concert clips, the highlight being a startling performance of \"Go to Hell\" that catches her at her most dangerous. In conversation Simone frequently sounds like she's on the verge of either a burnout or an epiphany, but she's revealing as she tries to pin down what \"freedom\" means to her: her definition that freedom means \"no fear\" is as good a key as you'll get to this set. So many strong currents run through To Be Free that it's easy to cling to just one.  But right when we focus on her as a protest singer, we fall into a haunted ballad like \"The Other Woman\"; and anyone who picks this up thinking they're getting brunch music wasn't counting on all the bongos.  Simone is missed, but this isn't a sentimental set, and while it's tempting to juxtapose her eulogy for Dr. King with what happened on election day last month, that's just one part of what she fought for and one part of what made her free. "}