{"label":" Gaarden","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13034/homepage_large.9cbc5f63.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Matthew Robert Cooper","title":"Miniatures","text":" You don't have to be a new age healer to believe that music is medicinal. I've often found myself putting on a record in order to amplify or counteract a specific feeling. If I'm feeling edgy, John Adams' \"Hallelujah Junction\" can make that edginess feel like something productive, while Gas or Eno can soothe it away. If I'm feeling lost in the day, the piano music of Philip Glass can guide me back on track, while Morton Feldman can help me remember that the track is an illusion. And when I'm feeling sentimental and fragile, Jóhann Jóhannsson or Eluvium can redeem that fragility into something triumphant.The unabashed embrace of sentimentality is crucial to both Jóhannsson and Eluvium's music. Both strive to bypass the brain and go straight for the heart (which, of course, on the compositional end, requires a lot of skill and intelligence). The pleasure they transmit feels effortless pure balm reminding us that discord and fracture aren't prerequisites for powerful arrangements. On Miniatures, Matthew Robert Cooper maintains the deepseated ache that characterizes his music as Eluvium, while pulling back from the opulence of Copia, working in ambient scrimshaw on tiny surfaces. While Eluvium is a professed influence upon Library Tapes, this release at least makes it appear as if the tables have turned, and Cooper is pursuing Library Tapes' vanishingpoint solemnity.Miniatures is so spare, its compositions so quiet and remote, that it has the feel of a demo tape, which it almost is. According to Cooper, he spent a year writing pieces for orchestra and recording discrete melodies for various instruments. During the process, these sketches took on a life of their own, and he decided to rerecord them as individual tracks for an album. As such, Miniatures contains standalone works that, as a whole, gesture toward a phantom symphony a symphony, one hopes, that Cooper will eventually write. In the meantime, we can glean the tone of the work through these fragments. A plaintive leitmotif that appears in \"Miniature 1\", a burnished dirge for strings and organ, reappears on \"Miniature 3\", a misty rainbow of drones that implies a sweeping horn theme.Cooper's music as Eluvium is no stranger to musical history. He quotes Philip Glass on Copia's \"Prelude for Time Feelers\". His yearning piano themes descend from Erik Satie, and they pervade Miniatures in force: See the melting declivities of \"Miniature 2\", the Michael Nymanesque meditations of \"Miniature 4\", and the offfooted steps of \"Miniature 7\", so tiny you can hear the sheet music turning. Sumptuous Romanticera strings provide the groundwork for many of his intrepid themes, as on the sublimely simple \"Minature 9\". But Cooper's symphonic ambitions occasionally push him even further back: The honeyed harmonic braid of \"Miniature 5\" is like a Baroqueperiod organ chorale by Bach, a true album highlight. That this relatively modest piece sounds voluble in the context of the album speaks to how Miniatures muffles Cooper's usual audacity. What it lacks in bravado it makes up for with quiet perseverance and buried coherence. But most importantly, it's just good medicine. "}