{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13045/homepage_large.0743c9d5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"DM Stith","title":"Curtain Speech EP","text":" \"Around the Lion Legs\", the first track off DM Stith's debut EP, contains an intriguing morsel of artist bio. \"You asked me why all these years, all these years I've held everything from you,\" he sings over a slicing acoustic guitar line and quiet bursts of staticky snare rolls. That line is crucial: A graphic designer pursuing a graduate degree, the Rochester native has been writing songs all of his life. But due to what his real artist bio describes as a \"harrowing performance of Phantom of the Opera at a school assembly\" (I submit that all such performances are harrowing), he has been reluctant to release his work, much less publicize it. Aside from a handful of tracks here and there within the past year or so (including one on Help Me to Sing, which accompanied the soundtrack to Awake, My Soul: The Story of the Sacred Harp), the Curtain Speech EP is his first real release, serving as both a preview of his 2009 fulllength and his first opportunity to make a real statement. He doesn't waste time: \"Around the Lion Legs\" crescendos to a swooning finale, on which he and a choir sing \"These things cannot be taken back/ I know know.\" Stith doesn't just release material, the song suggests. He relinquishes it. That Sufjan Stevens and My Brightest Diamond's Shara Worden both sing backup only hammers that point home.Suf and Shara are there for a couple of reasons: First, they're his labelmates at Asthmatic Kitty, and second, he played on past My Brightest Diamond albums and even contributed to the packaging design. The string quartet Osso, also new to Asthmatic Kitty, appears on one track, and Rafter plays bass and cymbals. Perhaps not entirely comfortable with this endeavor, Stith gets by with a little help from his friends. If he's worried about issues of ownership, authorial intent, and mass production, I can't really help him there. But if it's a simple case of stage fright, he should relax a bit. Curtain Speech reveals a new artist with an already highly developed compositional and vocal style. His songs move organically and patiently, building in unexpected but in retrospect, inevitable directions, and he carefully molds his vocals into arcs, hiccups, sighs, and coos, which individually have as much impact as his words.Even so, Curtain Speech makes clear that his approach demands a longer form than the EP. Of the five songs here, two are atmosphereestablishing instrumentals, one is a short vocal doodle, and only two feel fully fleshed out. Stith plays piano on the instrumental title track, banging out a single chord with varying tempo and recalling Philip Glass in the process. As an interstitial on a longer player, the ethereal, wordless harmonies might add more to the overall ambience, but on an EP, the song is a wobbly support pole. \"Hoarse Sorrows and the Whole Blind Earth...\" is likewise lyricless, but its instrumentation proves as grandiose as its ridiculous title, barely redeemed by its whistled melody.\"Around the Lion Legs\" and \"Just Once\" sound much more purposeful, and not merely because they are anchored to words. The former is the standout track here, Stith at his most musically assertive and lyrically selfquestioning, and \"Just Once\" is, well, a bit exasperating. This sevenminute centerpiece begins quietly, with Osso plucking out a subdued theme and Stith singing softly, as if to make you lean in to hear. The tempo remains steady, collecting instruments in its flow: handclaps, bowed strings, insectoid buzzing, curlicues of clarinet. Midway though, however, the song explodes into a loud second act that doesn't expand on this subdued palette of sounds, but simply amplifies them. Garish and unnecessary, this section leavens rather than intensifies the song's careful unease. Curtain Speech ends with \"Abraham's Song (Firebird)\", the collection's sparsest track. It's just Stith and an acoustic guitar, but it concisely demonstrates the moodiness of his vocals and the fluidity of his melodies. This EP may stumble, but it does exactly what it's supposed to do: It makes you want to hear even more from this curious talent. "}