{"label":" Honest Jon's","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13044/homepage_large.7ba26456.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Living Is Hard: West African Music in Britain, 1927-1929","text":" Summarizing the back catalog controlled by the EMI conglomerate is like summarizing the ocean. Where does one even start? There is so much music there, some of it extant only on wornout 78s, moldy reels, or ultrafragile cylinders, with scarce documentation a chronic ailment of the oldest recordings. In searching for an organizing principle, Damon Albarn's Honest Jon's label has settled on probably the most logical ones available: geography, timeframe, and culture. They've been here before with their superb London Is the Place for Me series, but Living Is Hard is one of their first releases in an ambitious mining project that aims to bring EMI's 1920s ethnic recordings back from the abyss of obscurity. The recordings on the disc were made in London by an assortment of visiting and resident West African musicians and singers for the Zonophone label, which then marketed the recordings almost exclusively in West Africa.The Zonophone label has convoluted roots, stretching back to the founding of a talking machine and disc recording company called ZonOPhone in Camden, N.J., in 1899. After a series of civil lawsuits (a long story worth reading on its own), the company's European assets were absorbed by the UKbased Gramophone & Typewriter Company, later the Gramophone Company, and the parent corporation of His Master's Voice, now more commonly known as HMV. Though the original company died in the 1903 lawsuit, the Zonophone name, depunctuated, lived on well into the 1980s, and was apparently revived again last year by EMI for a reissue project. For our purposes here, it's most important to know that among its many other uses, the Zonophone name was used from the 1920s through the 50s to market recordings of West African music, primarily in Ghana and Nigeria, which were British colonies at the time.This is not a compilation that caters to tastes shaped by rock'n'roll, funk, and soul, as a great many recent African music collections do this is primarily folk music, and voices, sometimes with a small amount of percussion, are all that comprise many of these tracks. A few feature heavier percussion, and a bit of guitar on four tracks is the only other instrument you'll hear. Little is known about many of the musicians the liner notes tell you what they can, including tidbits about Ben Simmons' African nationalism and informed speculation as to the hometown of Nicholas de Heer.The tracks featuring guitar fall mostly into a melodic, easygoing style. Harry E. Quashie's \"Anadwofa\" has a similar feel to the highlife that grew to dominate Ghanaian and Nigerian music in the 50s and 60s, and on \"Akuko Nu Bonto\" George Williams Aingo plays in a similar style, but augmented by backing vocals similar to those the answer the lead voice on some of the a cappella tracks included here. The Kumasi Trio's \"Asin Asin Part 2\" tells the story of the group's trip to Britain, mirroring the palmwine style then popular in Ghana, where the band was from (Kumasi is a city in southcentral Ghana). The West African Instrumental Quintet's \"Adersu No. 2\" spices it Gold Coast rhythms with a surprising Spanishinfluenced guitar part.Aingo had a second track, and it's one of the most interesting of the a cappella pieces featured. His backing singers give him wordless and very rhythmic phrases that push along his lead vocal, similar to the way the American Golden Gate Jubilee Quartet pushed along its gospel tunes. Prince Zulamkah sounds as if he's in a trance, repeating the same few phrases over and over again to a series of three answers delivered by a small chorus, one of which is \"shingaling.\" No word on whether this usage of that word had anything to do with the name of the 60s dance craze, but these musicians wound their way through British music scenes, and in particular the jazz scene, with plenty of contact with Americans, so you never know. My favorite vocal and percussion track is probably John Mugat's \"Bukay\", which is about the funkiest thing I've heard from the 20s the hand drums give it a relentless rhythm drive, but even the backing vocals have a kind of stabbing, rhythmic intensity that's very much of a piece with a 70s horn section.So although this disc isn't meant to compromise with a Western listener, it's still quite easy to listen to if you meet it on its terms. This is a fascinating chapter in the history of global migration, and it could be argued with some success that the 20s were the greatest decade for the preservation of genuine folk music traditions on recordings. The Honest Jon's people have gone all out to make these recordings as clear and present as possible, but source limitations naturally come into play (I happen to like the roomsound element of early recordings).If this disc piques your interest, I suggest checking out Interstate Music's Heritage imprint, which has compiled the Kumasi Trio twice, once on their own, and again backing Jacob Sam. The company has also released a compilation of the West African Instrumental Quintet, and a Domingo Justus set chronicling his role in the evolution of the juju style. Their Early Guitar Music from West Africa, 19271929 compilation, while it shares few artists with this set, is also a logical place to investigate further. After one listen to this, you'll likely want to. "}