{"label":" djshadow.com","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13057/homepage_large.1241d3cd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"DJ Shadow","title":"The 4-Track Era Bundle","text":" One of the oddest sonic juxtapositions I heard last year came from the first disc of this box set. Back in the late 1980s and early 90s, DJ Shadow put together a series of hiphop mixes for Bay Area radio station KMEL, and the megamix that appears on The 4Track Era Volume 1: Best of the KMEL Mixes opens, after a brief DJ intro, with one of those big booming slick laserexplosionsound station IDs: \"Bustin' oooout, another slammin' nonstop power mix on 106 point one, KMEL FM, San Francisco Oakland San Jose!\" From that bombastic intro, we go into a murky, vinylcrackledrenched, assembledontape collection of regional and national underground hiphop cuts, some original breaks, and the occasional Steinskiesque dialogue clip. It's almost inconceivable today that someone doing what Shadow did and what Shadow does now, for that matter would find their way onto a radio venue more mainstream than a college station. But The 4Track Era Bundle comes from a fascinating germination period for Shadow 1990 to 1992 where he was an aspiring producer in his late teens getting his foot in the door at a time when 95% of hiphop was still more or less an underground phenomenon. (The other 5% mostly consisted of the Hammerman cartoon and PSAs where ciphers in fiveyearsdated RunDMC outfits crossed their arms and rapped \"I'm soandso and I'm here to say that buckling up is AOK\".) Most people who've followed DJ Shadow's career have done so with his Mo Wax output as the starting point; we were told that the man behind grand artistic statements like \"In/Flux\" and Endtroducing..... was steeped in classic hiphop fundamentals, and we had to take their word for it. Now we have proof and this set doesn't just reveal Shadow's origins, it's a great assemblage of traditional, goldenageera hip hop turned just a bit sideways.The first volume, which includes two of the five mixes Shadow put together for KMEL circa 1991, is the most immediately entertaining, as well as one of the more illuminating looks into Shadow's early identity; at one point there's a brief interview interlude where Shadow downplays his nascent production work (\"hopefully, y'know, a little bit further in the future that'll be my career or whatever\") and emphasizes his work as a DJ and mix creator. Considering how many of his career highlights come from his mixes, whether collaborating with Cut Chemist (Brainfreeze; Product Placement; The Hard Sell) or going solo (Diminishing Returns; Funky Skunk), it's probably unsurprising how wellpaced and unique these early examples of his technique are, even from a 19 yearold.In the first six minutes of the first mix alone, we get a rowdy gfunk makeover of Kool G Rap & DJ Polo's \"Money in the Bank\", a tweak of Brand Nubian's \"Slow Down\" that adds some severe lowend boost to the track's Edie Brickellderived beat, and a sharplycut, scratchfilled rendition of De La Soul's \"Afro Connections at a Hi 5 (In the Eyes of the Hoodlum)\" that subtly ups the pitch and tempo and transforms the track from a plodding spoof of meanmug hardness into a lively handsup anthem. The two mixes still focus on what was hot in '91 the second one prominently features the Geto Boys' \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\", Cypress Hill's \"How I Could Just Kill a Man\", and Black Sheep's \"Flavor of the Month\" but the familiarity is tempered by a few period obscurities (J.V.C. F.O.R.C.E.'s \"A Musical Sample\"; Downtown Science's \"Radioactive\"), a superb mixing job and the restless, unpredictable creativity of a DJ who was just beginning to pull out all the stops to define his own persona.There's also some valuable stuff in the other two volumes one dedicated to nonradio megamixes and a few unreleased remixes, the other comprised of some of Shadow's earliest work, and all of it previously unreleased aside from one track that came out on a difficulttofind NME freebie cassette. It's here where you get a clearer picture of the artist Shadow would become as a producer as well as how severely he transformed between 1992 and 1996. Volume 2's remixes feature the audacious experimentation of an upandcoming beat constructor who suddenly realizes he's gotten good at what he does. He applies some breakbeat ADD to Eric B. & Rakim's \"Let the Rhythm Hit 'Em\", where the beat changes what seems like every 20 seconds but never falters. The Jungle Brothers' \"Jimbrowski\" gains a stouter drum break, a catchy piano/organ hook and a fullfledged reggae interlude to back up the original's extended \"dreadlock\" conversation. And his reworking of 3rd Bass' \"Wordz of Wisdom\" has the original's Gary Wright break hyperextended, dropping out a few times so Shadow can push the drum track within inches of its life; the damn thing's eight minutes long, and it's amazing.And while there's nothing quite as transformative or outlandish on Volume 3's collection of early originals, there's still some impressive moments once you take into account that everything was assembled on turntables and that titular 4Track machine no samplers, no computers. Occasionally the results are a little hinky the beats in \"DJ Shadow's Theme (Original Version)\" feel a little loose and slippery, while \"Track the Groove\" sounds like a bunch of overfamiliar Ultimate Breaks & Beats fodder mixed together but hearing the \"You Can Make it if You Try\" break diced up and smothered in rapidfire scratches on \"The Source Is Serious Business\" or the Zep/Hendrix/Doors mainstays of classic rock radio juggled around in \"Rock Lesson\" provides a good idea of where he was headed. And fans of what little vintage Shadow there was to hear before Mo Wax signed him should be geeked to find both an alternative mix of his manic 1991 Steinski homage \"Lesson 4\" and a longlost, old school funkheavy all45 \"Lesson 5\" which predated the similar M.O. of Brainfreeze by a good seven or eight years.Now here's the cruel part: It's extremely difficult to buy this box set. You could've snagged the individual components a year or two ago, since each volume was included as a throwin bonus with a tshirt purchase on DJ Shadow's web store, but as of this writing only Volume 3 is still in print and available. And the box itself produced in a limited edition of 200, with another immaculatelyconstructed KMEL mix thrown in as a fourthdisc bonus is already going for stupid money on eBay and Craigslist. It's a bit ironic, now that we finally have officiallyreleased audio documentation of Shadow's formative years, that many fans will probably have to resort to some kind of pirate skullduggery just to hear it. So back to the underground it goes. "}