{"label":" N.E.E.T.","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13050/homepage_large.90a1ab92.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Slumdog Millionaire OST","text":" Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire begins, more or less, as the director's breakthrough Trainspotting had done a copsandcriminals chase, only with preadolescents in slums of Mumbai replacing the Edinburgh twentysomethings of Trainspotting. Slumdog Millionaire ends and this gives nothing away with an elaborately choreographed Bollywood dance routine filmed in Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus train platform. The sequence, vibrantly scored by hugely successful modern Indian film legend A.R. Rahman, serves as a reminder, as if one was necessary, that what came before it was fantasy.Despite attempts to ascribe it sociological significance, Slumdog Millionaire is escapist fare that has little bearing on the complicated and cruel world we live in. Which is not to denigrate the thoroughly entertaining film's value as a movie. Boyle's journeyman tendencies have brought him to some fascinating places, from the surface of the sun in Sunshine to the deserted corridors of zombieinfested England in 28 Days Later, and the settings of Slumdog Millionaire are no less entrancing, enhanced as usual by Boyle's knack for matching his striking visuals with wellchosen music. M.I.A. was an obvious pick for this meeting of Boyle's sensibilities and the hardscrabble realities of India's most bustling modern metropolis. It took Pineapple Express to help make M.I.A.'s \"Paper Planes\" an unlikely hit, but that song couldn't be better suited for Slumdog Millionaire if Maya Arulpragasam had intentionally composed it for Boyle's use. On screen, the montagearific track (as well as the DFA remix, which is also featured) perfectly complements both the narrative (tenacious street urchins fighting their way out of Mumbai's underclass) and images (heatsoaked slums, trashstrewn streets, and Bombay's vibrant mid90s rebirth as Mumbai). Needless to say, Rahman couldn't resist roping M.I.A. in once again as a cameo to enhance his cue \"O... Saya.\"With the exception of those tracks and Sonu Nigam's cyberpop \"Aaj Ki Raat\" recycled from a Bollywood thriller the rest of the Slumdog Millionaire soundtrack consists of Rahman's evocative score, which meshes pounding technoid percussiveheavy pieces (such as \"Riots\" or \"Mausam And Escape\") and slightly less forceful cues (such as \"Ringa Ringa\"), some of which seem designed to bring to mind specific moments in the film, some to evoke more general emotions. In fact, Rahman has said that one of the instructions given to him by Boyle was to avoid sentiment, and indeed most of the score (save the mawkish and manipulative ballad \"Dreams on Fire\") ebbs and flows free from the usual soaring Hollywood approach. Some results are deliciously weird, too, such as the stuttering, \"Barber of Seville\"quoting \"Liquid Dance\" or \"Gangsta Blues\", which features Indian MC BlaaZe and sounds a little like an Indian take on Timbaland's take on India. All these tracks are steps along the way to the showstopping \"Jai Ho\", the film's concluding dance sequence, where Boyle gets to embrace his inner Bollywood and Rahman gets to a compose a track meant to convey little more than pure danceable joy so that the film's stars can get down during the final credits. The sequence marks the film's most triumphant moment and serves a similar purpose punctuating the soundtrack, but having the rest of these tracks in one place serves as a useful reminder of the fastpaced movie's fleeting thrills and vibrant flights of fancy. "}