{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13061/homepage_large.e344d3ab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Metro Area","title":"Fabric 43","text":" On each of their seven EPs the first four distilled/expanded into a nearperfect selftitled album in 2002 neodisco duo Metro Area have refined a lusciously restrained take on that most shameless of genres. But for their entry in Fabric's DJ series which features the silliest Fabric opening since Carl Craig flipped the Ying Yang Twins into Kraftwerkian sex music, and closes with a synthrock sugar rush Morgan Geist and Darshan Jesrani have turned in a party mix. Of course, \"party mix\" is relative; you may not set your shindigs off with strippeddown, discoera dubs. But though good parties aren't usually remembered for their restraint, it's actually the duo's classicism that gives Fabric 43 its edge in a crowded mix market.Rather than regurgitating hook after exhausting hook in crowdpleasing desperation, the duo flaunts an oldschool DJ's assurance, knowing when to let a beat ride and when to jolt a groove with a punchy snatch of vocal. Expert pacing will always draw in the dance snobs, but there are few \"songs\" here. It'll help the lesscommitted to approach Fabric 43 with at least a dollop of love for disco in its many forms, from hypersyncopated minimalism to hypersexed bubblegum. If swinging 4/4 drums don't automatically float your boat, Metro Area's committed to rhythmic variety in the name of maintaining homelistening interest. Just when you're worn out on trad disco beats, here comes a barrage of grungy, stuttering Chicago house snares, or brooding synthrock drums swept away by a bright burst of pianoandstrings.And so on, sliding from mood to mood and era to era without disrupting the mix's creamy flow. Even vocally, the gospelderived callandresponse and ecstatic R&B harmonies of the American disco tradition are liberally spiked with the arch Anglo melodrama and chintzy Euro playfulness that made up disco's internationalist wing. As the mix passes the halfway mark, \"playful\" actually becomes the watchword: a squelching, stomping electrodisco remake of the Temptations' \"Cloud Nine\" that says to hell with everything but the chorus; Plez's acid house oneoff \"I Can't Stop\", which sounds like a bilious lothario grunting his way through a John Carpenter outtake; an outro by noted masters of highseriousness Devo. You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll occasionally cringe with glee at a synth hook that's just a little too ostentatious. Something for everyone.Well, sort of. Technically flawless and plenty of fun it is a disco mix, however dubfixated the duo's taste in the genre Fabric 43 probably still isn't for casual listeners who buy the occasional DJ mix for novelty's sake. For fans, those leftfield choices usually work to reinforce the upscale boogie aesthetic Geist and Jesrani mapped seven long years ago on Metro Area, rather than exploring more recent trends in DJ's passing off rock and prog tunes as \"disco\" for an audience reared on VH1 clips of Gloria Gaynor. But the duo's smooth, midtempo foundation sprouts enough surprises to make the mix stand out from the 21stcentury discomix glut and the Fabric series' own inconsistent latedecade quality control. (The brilliantly orchestrated, rapidfire vocal overlaps of Data's \"Blow\", its sassy \"whoa's\" flying like neon bullets in a new waveera action flick, actually made me catch my breath on first listen.) And it would be a shame if this consistently listenable late 2008 release got lost in the rush to see the year off. "}