{"label":" ThinkIndie","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13063/homepage_large.a199cf6f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Jose Gonzalez","title":"Live at Park Avenue EP","text":" If you thought the music industry was in a state of flux, then consider the state of the live album. Thanks to YouTube, bit torrents, and YouSendItstyle filetransfer sites, amateur concert recordings are available as never before, almost instantly, to anyone in the world who wants to hear them. At the same time, indie listeners' growing acceptance of electronicbased music has made for live shows that are more about fans' communal experiences than any notes actually being played \"live\" just ask anyone who has ever seen Girl Talk, or go pick up Justice's unconventional A Cross the Universe live CD. It's no surprise, then, that some of last year's most rewarding live albums came from the vaults: Otis Redding's Live in London and Paris, Neil Young's Sugar Mountain: Live at Canterbury House 1968.José González, the brooding Swedish bard of Argentine breeding, is in some ways a throwback to that earlier era. The songs on González's haunting sophomore album, 2007's In Our Nature, have the focused political fury and strippeddown arrangements of another generation of acoustic troubadours. But González's minimalist folkpop shows a painterly appreciation for the nuances of organic sound a foot tap here, an offmic murmur there that you won't find from your average coffeehouse singersongwriter. The ninesong, halfhour Live At Park Avenue EP (available via ThinkIndie or in certain independent record stores) exemplifies one way to keep live recordings relevant at a time when they, like recorded music itself, are both ubiquitous and underappreciated. Although it can't capture all the subtlety of González's studio output, the EP is also an ideal introduction for González noobs.Park Avenue CD in Orlando, Fl., isn't exactly Carnegie Hall, but the instore crowd gives González's slow, moody polemics the kind of patient silence that never ceases to amaze me about the audience on Bob Dylan's Live at Carnegie Hall 1963 EP. The five songs from In Our Nature on Live At Park Avenue are clandestine descendants of protest songs like \"With God on Our Side\". Written after reading atheist extraordinaire Richard Dawkins, \"Abram\" blasts organized religion over descending acoustic guitar arpeggios gentle enough to cut the bitterness \"well, most of the time.\" The terrible prophecies coursing through the percussive bass lines of \"How Low\" (performed here with murmuring introspection that belies its political fire) and the droning high strings of \"Down the Line\" will outlive the Bush administration and, I'm sorry to say, the Obama administration, too. González directs the intimate, elemental \"Time to Send Someone Away\" at someone who goes \"walking over bodies/ just to witness something new\"; you think Gonzo's in for that? No way, José. \"The Nest\" is about birds the way \"The Ant and the Grasshopper\" is about Aesop's entomology research.  The philosophical underpinnings of the songs from González's Pink Moonesque debut album, Veneer, come to the surface next to his In Our Nature material. Pensive charmer \"Deadweight on Velveteen\" opens Live at Park Avenue with a slightly brighter guitar tone than its Veneer original, though still fuming against base dishonesty. With a refrain as catchy as its main guitar figure is repetitive, \"Hints\" shifts from Gonzalez's usual secondperson lyrics to the firstperson plural, including us in a community of independent thinkers; the flattery works. Vivid Veneer standout \"Crosses\", like the religious icons of its title (or Massive Attack), offers protection, and González doesn't disappoint on probably his bestknown number, \"Heartbeats\". The imagery of devils, wolf's teeth, and hands from above goes a long way to explain why the Knife's song suits his repertoire so well.Live at Park Avenue EP features nearflawless performances of most of González's best songs, and the sound quality is fine, if a bit less appealing than on his lofi debut or its immaculately recorded sequel. There's little in the way of betweensong banter, and the tracks stay pretty faithful to the originals. So if you already have the albums, this EP is a lovely live document just don't expect anyone to break new ground. Although an artist's ability to play well live on traditional (read: nonelectronic) instruments has fuckall to do with the quality of his records, live performances of those records tend to be more enjoyable when the performers imagine this know what they're doing. González's harrowing way with an acoustic guitar will be sure to please stuffy authenticity squares as well as listeners more interested in minorkey artistic relevations. But don't hold that against him. "}