{"label":" Exponential","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13079/homepage_large.6b4f714f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Aether","title":"Artifacts","text":" Remember the Mo' Wax aesthetic? I kind of miss it. Their earlytomid1990s vanguard of instrumental downtempo breakbeat peaked with DJ Shadow's Endtroducing... and, much like jazz fusion, their hiphop fusion had a brief window of innovation followed by a period of watereddown stagnancy. But fond memories of Headz have a way of coming back to you, and the urge to listen to psychprog noodling and ambient/illbient tripout jazzbo riffs over heavy Class of '88 boombap breaks is going to need to get fulfilled sooner or later. And with Shadow gone halfway hyphy, RJD2 turned into a twee Stevie Wonder, and Diplo getting most of his artier tendencies out of his system with Florida over four years ago, that urge has gotten harder to sate as of late.This, then, should tide you over fine. Aether is one of several projects from San Antonio musician and graphic designer Diego Chavez, who has a couple of backup aliases (Otic Angst; A.M. Architect) in case one of the eight other groups out there operating under the name Aether sends a ceaseanddesist. And within the first 13 minutes of Artifacts, his first fulllength release as Aether, that familiar blunted vibe you might remember from those old UNKLE tracks you bumped 12 years ago comes creeping back in. Opener \"Forgive Me\" pulses its way into melancholy, electric pianodriven life like a wintry cousin to onebeat wonder Peter Panic's production on JayZ's \"Regrets\", and subsequent sounds the headnodding sparkle of \"Dejame Dormir\", the stomping orchestral bboy sweep of \"To Her\", the combination of hard, skittering beats and aloof folkpop on \"Anywhere\" reveal a simultaneous impulse towards percussive force and delicate, occasionally baroque melodic flourishes that give Artifacts a highcontrast personality.Those first 13 minutes, interestingly enough, comprise nearly a third of the entire album's length. Artifacts lacks the slowbuild, longdrive sprawl of its mid90s progenitors in favor of a more concise approach that shares a similar ear for the brief interludeturnedsong as Boards of Canada, moments which play out briefly between the margins of more extensive musical concepts. But while Artifacts throws its songs at you short and quick, they're all interlinked in an albumlength ebb and flow that's smartly paced and meant to be a quickly shifting exercise in mood alteration. It's fitting enough that the only tracks that break the fourminute mark come at the album's midpoint peak (the discopaced, borderlineBollywood \"Orfeu Negro\") and the very end (\"Makeshift Sanctuary\", which quotes lyrics from A Tribe Called Quest's \"Get a Hold\" over minimalist piano and maximalist drums). How's that for mid90s revivalism an album best listened to fronttoback. "}