{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13075/homepage_large.16f1c48e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Titan: It's All Pop!","text":" Kansas City is widely known as one of the great incubators of jazz and blues. People who associate it with music at all are likely to think first of Count Basie or the American Jazz Museum and of course the immortal R&B standard \"Kansas City\". But the city's musical history naturally extends well beyond that. As this 2xCD retrospective of the power pop label Titan illustrates, it even has a few lost chapters. There were garage bands and surf groups all over the Midwest in the 1960s and early 70s, and while most didn't last very long, their members often kept plugging away with new projects. Eventually, they left fertile ground to nurture a raft of punk and power pop bands, most of which were just as unsuccessful as their garagebound predecessors.If you're going to be unsuccessful, though, you might as well be spectacularly unsuccessful. The Titan label's first transaction was to bounce a check, and things didn't get a whole lot better after that. Tom Sorrells and Mark Prellberg were music nuts who originally planned to start a Who Put the Bompstyle zine to focus on the stories of forgottenintheirowntime garage bands of the Great Plains and underecognized current acts, but an introduction to Gary Charlson changed that. After having \"Real Life Saver\" sung to him over the phone, Prellberg made the executive decision to divert the zine's startup funds to recording the song and another Charlson composition and press it up on 45, complete with a sweet picture sleeve featuring an unauthorized image of a Wintergreen Life Saver.There was no need to worry about getting into legal trouble for trademark infringement, though, because neither Prellberg nor Sorrells had any connections, and the single barely cleared a few mile radius around Kansas City on its release. Not for lack of quality, though \"Real Life Saver\" is a genuine power pop treat. Charlson's great doubled falsetto is ably abetted by a sharp arrangement and good drumming. Charlson has seven tracks on this comp, and he was a great tunesmith, not to mention a good interpreter. His version of the obscure Dwight Twilley gem \"Shark\" is a fantastic rock'n'roll raver. Charlson recorded a live album of covers for Titan, a record that languished too long and sent him off to Bomp! To get it released. Titan responded by rushreleasing it first, destroying the label's relationship with its founding act.I have to call Charlson the founding act and not the first signing because Titan didn't do contracts. It was a business with no business plan or budget, a series of unrecouped investments made on the basis of handshakes. They lost perhaps their best band, the Secrets* (the meaning of the asterisk is apparently secret), in a similar situation when they adopted new management and left to seek a major label deal, taking some Titanfunded recordings with them. The Secrets* are responsible for several of this set's highlights. The ebulliently bitter girldestroysboy stomper \"It's Your Heart Tonight\" would've fit great on the radio next to Cheap Trick, if anyone had ever played it on the radio, while \"Radio Heart\" starts with a melodic bass solo, then delivers a mission statement of sorts with its opening line: \"I just wanna blast out your favorite tunes.\"Sorrells and Prellberg looked outside of K.C. for talent as well, recording but not releasing a single by Lawrence, Kan., band Millionaire at Midnight, and reaching up into Lincoln, Neb., to pluck the city's resident Anglophiles the Boys. The Boys were the highestprofile act ever to give Titan the time of day, having opened stadiums for Blue Öyster Cult, ZZ Top, and REO Speedwagon. They had everything going for them except timing the kinds of wonderfully snaking melodies and big vocal harmonies they pedaled may have gotten them somewhere in the 60s or even the halcyon days of indie pop a decade later, but in 1979 they fell on deaf ears, This despite the fact that their cheekily titled \"(Baby) It's You\", which is not a Bacharach/David cover, was Titan's best seller by far.I was skeptical when I first started listening that this set truly merited two discs, but I was pleasantly surprised to get through both of them wanting more. The discs aren't numbered, but are simply labeled \"Fave Side\" and \"Rave Side,\" and both are stuffed with faves and raves alike. The Numero guys included a bunch of worthy unreleased material from the label's 19781981 run, such as \"The Water\", by Bobby Sky, whose time in L.A. with Kim Fowley is evident in the Beach Boysish vocal melody, bright piano interjections, and layered chorus harmonies. Scott McCarl's \"I Think About You\" popped up on a CD released by Sorrells in the mid 90s, but it dates from 1981, and it's an outstanding slice of bounding indie pop that deserved inclusion.Titan ultimately deserves the resurrection it gets here. Limited resources and even more limited business acumen may have prevented the imprint from ever snatching its pie out of the sky, but Sorrells and Prellberg were fans before they were ever label men, and you can tell they picked these bands to record because they loved the music. The recordings are professional, and the musicianship is mostly outstanding see Charlson's dual lead on \"Brown Eyes\" or the weird but effective drumming on J.P. McClain & the Intruders' \"Just Another Pop Song\" for examples. But beyond that, good guitar pop is good guitar pop, and most of these tunes are easy to connect with 30 years after the fact. "}