{"label":" Everloving","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13097/homepage_large.222cbec5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Van Dyke Parks / Inara George","title":"An Invitation","text":" Inara George didn't want to be a musician. The daughter of the Little Feat frontman, Lowell George, she rebelled against the idea that her career was foreordained by her genes. Apparently, and luckily, she cottoned to the fact that music was in her blood, as half of loungenouveau duo the Bird and the Bee and solo and with her confessional debut All Rise. Her newest album An Invitation carries this eerie sense of destiny further: The genius behind the record's meandering baroque, Van Dyke Parks, met Inara shortly after she was born.Parks was friends with George's father and, of course, a collaborator. Years earlier, he wrote the words to Brian Wilson's \"teenage symphonies to God\" on the once famously \"lost\" Smile. Parks has more recently worked with Joanna Newsom on the epic Ys and Rufus Wainwright. After George watched the Edith Piaf documentary La Vie en Rose, she asked Parks to help recreate that sense of the solitary songstress, unencumbered and alone at the microphone, the music magically radiating from offstage. Handed a demo tape, Parks obliged. Soon he returned with arrangements that tracked the path of George's vocals every twist and turn with a painstaking, almost nanoscale precision. A 28piece orchestra, heavy on strings, evokes both the Technicolor wonderlands of the Sherman Brothers and the rambling urbanity of Kurt Weill. And, for songs that touch on yearning and love's blindness (\"Tell Me That You Love Me\", \"Rough Design\"), the large orchestral sound strangely suits the intimate, introspective words: they match the size of the emotions. Recorded in two days at LA's Sunset Sound studio  the room where Parks and Lowell George first worked together the album was produced by Mike Andrews, who considers An Invitation the fatherdaughter record the Georges never got to make. Lowell died of a heart attack when she was five.Parks takes an approach to composition that feels nearer to film (a holdover from his childactor days, perhaps) and fiction than music. He views his pieces as connected by their characters and scenes. Married to a director, raised on Shakespeare, and briefly an actress, George was a perfect companion for this philosophy. It's no wonder the record betrays not only the drama of storytelling, but the sweep, color, and motion of the theatrical. They share the same multimedia creativity.With her steady, crystalline voice, the only voice heard, George sounds like the still center of a swirling onewoman musical. In \"Idaho\", she tells the story of people running away to the Potato State, sounding a bit like Keren Ann over the sharpedged strings, a moody piano, and Parks's accordion. \"Drink the same drink, think the same thing,\" she says elsewhere, about either a postbreakup refuge in ritual, or the descent into lonely monotony. Everyone here is trying to work something out with themselves. \"We're on our way to what we are,\" George sings on \"Rough Design\", describing not only her characters' complex interior lives, but her own thrilling growth as an artist. An Invitation adds a new chapter to that story, told in an unmistakably American idiom fusing Broadway and Tin Pan Alley and Copland, spotlighting Inara George as a sophisticated new voice and confirming Van Dyke Parks, at 68, as an inexhaustibly vital national treasure. "}