{"label":" What's Your Rupture?","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13109/homepage_large.c65e123c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Nodzzz","title":"Nodzzz","text":" Noisepop acts many of whom favor iteration to innovation had a great 2008. But with the ink still drying on last year's bestof lists, the recurrent genre's bright stars (Vivian Girls, Times New Viking, Crystal Stilts, Women) are already under attack, facing censure from both the antiderivative, provirtuosity sects of the blogosphere and the types of ”fans” who hop trends every six months just to be the first to board and then jump a ship. Nodzzz, a smart alecky threepiece from San Francisco who share a few stylistic traits with more wellknown noisepop bands, will inevitably be lumped in with them and face similar (and probably misguided) backlashdriven criticism.Despite a penchant for brevity (Nodzzz's 10 songs clock in at under 16 minutes), a lofi aesthetic, and a tendency to brush their guitars and vocals with a light wash of fuzz, Nodzzz actually don't sound much like their contemporaries. Where other groups look to Nuggets and Back From the Grave for inspiration, these guys draw upon Stiff Records, pub rock, and the earliest British new wave of the 1970s Nick Lowe and Elvis Costello are accurate reference points. They also stir in an element of surferdude recklessness by means of their distinctive West Coast cadence. (Singer Anthony Atlas' vowel sounds are at times reminiscent of the Dead Milkmen goofing their way through \"Bitchin' Camaro\".) All of this plus, yeah, the signature jangle of their peers can be heard in the acoustic strums and ramshackle rhythms of opener \"Is She There\", which sets the record's lowrent, coldbeersinthehotsun vibe.That spirit is another reason to not cast Nodzzz off as latetotheparty scenesters: Like the Feelies or Modern Lovers before them, the group wears its quirkiness as a kind of badge of honor; it informs both its music and how they present it. On punchy, effortlessly catchy tracks such as \"I Can't Wait\" and \"Controlled Karaoke\", Nodzzz strike a tone of brazen, almost nerdy fun that's diametrically opposed to Crystal Stilts' pokerfaced cool. But for all of the backyard partying, there's a sense here of impending severity. Sure, the band is living in a state of postponed adolescence, but they're also keenly aware of what's breathing down their necks. Much of the lyrical content of Nodzzz addresses this predicament the urgency of youth giving way to the inevitability of adulthood and the group commendably manages a lot with a little. (Remember, these songs rarely stretch past the twominute mark.)Openly sarcastic on \"Simple Song\", Nodzzz caution youngsters (and maybe themselves) against believing too much in their punk dreams. \"A time is gonna come when you're not young/ Hope you give up on that simple song/ Forget the words, be a mom,\" they advise. They get even more meditative on \"Highway Memorial Shrine\", pensively wondering how they'll ever \"go to San Francisco\" or \"get to a place [they] don't know.\" Hmm...where do you go? Who do you need to know? Sound familiar? Yeah, it's the same set of brinkofadulthood worries Morrissey posed in \"The Boy With the Thorn in His Side\" years ago. For a kid stepping into twowar, economiccollapse America, those questions are as pertinent (and unanswerable) now as they were then, and consciously or not, Nodzzz cleverly posit them here in stupidsimple terms to a new generation of misfits. That's a pretty slick move for a group supposedly riding the coattails of a trend bloggers claim is on its way out. "}