{"label":" EP","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13102/homepage_large.c78fb26c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"EPMD","title":"We Mean Business","text":" Where were you in '92? A lot of us were cultivating a longstanding relationship with Ed Lover and Dr. Dre (Who's the Man Dre, not The Wash Dre) and maybe have spent at least a half hour of the past decade wondering how KSolo and/or Keith Murray keeps busy these days. As long as EPMD can draw breath, they'll likely be welcome on any number of nostalgia tours, but if We Mean Business is the first you've heard of the Long Island duo's latest iteration of grownman business, you've got company the record didn't even land inside the Billboard 200. Still, We Mean Business is a surprisingly enjoyable reminder of the potency of a group often overshadowed by their more namedropped contemporaries.Needless to say, subject matter mostly boils down to EPMD being living legends and these young rapsters need to show them some goddamn respect. And really, We Mean Business' greatest achievement is how it manages to do such without Erick Sermon and Parrish Smith sounding bitter or out of touch pretty much impossible since the record is constructed as a selfcontained 1990s simulacrum. Despite the presence of 9th Wonder (who could probably learn a thing from Erick Sermon about how to make a snare knock), these are the same sorts of beats you'd hear on a premillennium Def Squad project, right down to what feels like the 12th song they've done called \"RocDaSpot\" (down to the same sample of Biggie's \"Unbelievable\"). Usually, when beats are called \"round,\" it's on some edgeless backpacker shit, but Sermon knows how to play the back without turning into wallpaper, still spitting out tracks resembling Super Balls, dense, rubbery and altogether fun. The guests regularly outshine the hosts, but each has a variation on the sort of rugged, gruff flow that doesn't leave Erick or Parrish gasping. Redman shows to clown up \"Yo\", Raekwon and Method Man are still in great form on their respective drops, and Keith Murray answers the question raised earlier by indicating he's spent years trying to make sure \"wanksta\" and \"a homo shanked ya\" rhyme just right. Even the one notable contemporary feature comes from Skyzoo, the kind of guy who so far has made inroads only with the most virulent \"bring New York back\" crowd. Not much has changed about the group dynamic either while Parrish has the more technically impressive flow, E somehow gets the memorable lines, although it works in both ways. It's like his lisp has actually progressed with age (he boasts that he's the reason kids slow flow these days), but it can result in fully intelligible groaners like \"don't get me mad and make me Barack Obombya.\" But whatever the two are going on about, for better or worse, it's as impenetrable as Company Flow for just about anyone under the age of 25: EPMD namedrops, amongst others, Dominique Dawes, W.C., Andre Rison, KungFu Hustle, Mekhi Phifer, and then revives the stickup kid catchphrase \"run your jewels\" as a hook with a typically cantankerous KRSOne.Obviously, with such a lowrisk, modestreward format and almost nonexistent commercial prospects, EPMD really had no chance of creating something that could knock Strictly Business out the box in large part because something like \"Yo\" will never get a video treatment in the manner \"Headbanger\" or \"Crossover\" did. Still, We Mean Business actually bears more in common with recent mixtapestyle releases like Prodigy's Return of the Mac or Clipse's Road to Til the Casket Drops without reaching the musical heights of the former or the lyrical heights of the latter the breakdown of the usual promotion cycle to acknowledge the increasingly nichetargeted appeal of nonsuperstar rappers. I can't imagine EPMD meant for this to go beyond an already established fanbase of intensely dedicated listeners, but then again, \"the customer's always right\"... well, that's just good business sense. "}