{"label":" Southern Fried","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13131/homepage_large.b59280f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"The BPA","title":"I Think We're Gonna Need a Bigger Boat","text":" This isn't Norman Cook's first songbased album, not by a long shot. As Fatboy Slim, he finessed the idea of dance track as pop songcumloop, isolating the best moments of cratedug tracks and repeating them until he hammered them into hooks; as Beats International, he roped in a crowd of vocalists to sing their own songs and a few covers and some weird but fun throwaways; in the mid1980s, he was the bassist in the Housemartins, who were a straightup guitarpop band with the occasional a cappella curveball. And now he's the central figure of the BPA, or Brighton Port Authority a catchall for stuff Cook does with various vocalists. They have a confusing fictional backstory involving recently rediscovered tapes from the 70s, but that doesn't even make sense: you can hear the software in every choppedandpasted rifflet on the record. (The countins at the beginning of most songs are a gag.) They're also the most referential pop act this side of Girl Talk although, beyond the perplexing covers that bookend their debut album, they refer to modes more than to particular songs. Every synth setting and drum sound and vocal technique on I Think We're Gonna Need a Bigger Boat is a pastiche of a sort of thing you've heard before. See, for instance, \"Should I Stay or Should I Blow\", whose guest is house producer Ashley Beedle. It isn't a variation on the Clash's \"Should I Stay or Should I Go\" (or Thee Stash's \"Should I Suck or Should I Blow\"); instead, it's some kind of Frankensteinedtogether cybernetic rocksteady creature. Its construction couldn't be simpler: a spysurf guitar sample (or quasisample) that serves as its intro and bridge, a twobar cutandpaste job of a riff that repeats for the entire remainder of the song (with some wobbling Jamaican organ slapped on to underscore the refrain), two verses, three choruses, and a faux shortwaveradio solo. The chorus \"Every day it's yeah yeah yeah/ And every night it's no no no\" is lifted from a nonexistent Jimmy Cliff record. The whole thing sounds like a party if you hear it in the background, and crumbles into flakes the moment you start paying attention. One thing an album with a different singer on every track can do is make points about singing voices and what they can mean. (See, for instance, Stephin Merritt's 6ths' albums.) Bigger Boat mostly blows that opportunity its lesserknown singers mostly deliver bythenumbers Britpop technique. Justin Robertson's \"Island\" sounds like the David Bowie of the 90s forgetting the words and the tune to \"'Heroes'\"; Jamie T's \"Local Town\" sounds like a threesheetstothewind John Lydon forgetting the words, but not the tune, to a medley of PiL's greatest hits. Cook gets it very right a few times, though: \"Spade\", the album's other Jamaicaninspired track, presents Martha Wainwright with a phased and sparkling approximation of mid70s lovers rock, and she responds by alternately gliding over the rhythm like a Studio One pro and clipping her phrasing to try to synch up with its twitchy reggae guitar. And \"Toe Jam\", the single from last year with the boobs 'n' black bars video and David Byrne high on life and Dizzee Rascal cramming as many syllables as he can into the middle eight, is a geekyandproud bonbon. Cook knows how to sequence songs to work a crowd, and Bigger Boat flows like a mofo all the way to its floorclearing closer, a cover of Nick Lowe's \"So It Goes\" rendered by Olly Hite as the slinky comeon it emphatically isn't. But the other cover here the Monochrome Set's \"He's Frank\", intoned by Iggy Pop exemplifies what's frustrating about the BPA. The original version of the song is one of the greatest postpunk multiguitar cockfights, so Cook waggishly boils its crosstalk down to a dopey riff; the Monochrome Set's Bid sang it as a drywitted portrait of a rentboy who's a little bit past his sellby date, and Iggy sings it as an amalgamation of odd phrases that don't mean anything in particular. (It doesn't help that he blows some of the lyrics: The first line of the song is \"he's got secular joy,\" not \"circular.\") It's catchy; it's got a good little beat. But, like too much of the album, there's something not just dumb but dumbed down about it. "}