{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13126/homepage_large.d2072048.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Bruce Springsteen","title":"Working on a Dream","text":" Working on a Streak is more like it. First, there's that Golden Globe for \"The Wrestler\", then a performance at the We Are One concert at the Lincoln Memorial, a handful of Grammy noms for a twoyearold song, a greatesthits package exclusive from WalMart, this weekend's Super Bowl halftime show, and a justannounced reissue of Darkness on the Edge of Town. So that Oscar snub can't sting too much. In the middle of a pretty amazing month, Bruce Springsteen is releasing his 16th studio album, one whose title sounds more like a campaign slogan than a rock record. Maybe that's intentional: After spending much of this decade playing up to listeners' notions of post9/11 recovery and conjuring up bleak visions of Bushera America, the Boss settles into some sense of contentment on Working on a Dream, as if that Dream had already been achieved. In this regard, the album sounds like the final installment of a trilogy he began with The Rising in 2002 and continued with Magic in 2007 ignoring Devils & Dust, which isn't hard to do, and We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions, which remains his best and most freewheelin' latecareer album. Tracing his personal and, arguably, our national mood from wounded to outraged to somewhat contented, these albums are linked by Springsteen's ongoing collaboration with producer Brendan O'Brien, whose work has grown increasingly capable and adventurous with each release. Despite removing any trace of regional shuffle from these songs, O'Brien puts them across like the proficient bar band they are, roaring through \"My Lucky Day\" and \"What Love Can Do\" with professional abandon. O'Brien erects an impressive 1960s wall of sound on \"Surprise, Surprise\", with its carnivalesque organ and girlgroup backing vocals, and in general he streamlines the E Street Band's sound to highlight one central melody or riff. Opener \"Outlaw Pete\" rides an ascending/descending theme not dissimilar to KISS' \"I Was Made for Loving You\". Strings protrude from the song at odd angles, Springsteen's vocals echo through what sounds like a deep valley, and Roy Bittan contributes a hyperactive organ as the song spins a yarn about an outlaw so vague he sounds only theoretical. The track is overstuffed with ideas, and at eight minutes, it's a strange, ineffective opener, setting a curiously detached mood for an album that is, for Springsteen, typically engaged. Of his three E Street Band releases of the 00s, Working on a Dream is the one that most sounds like a solo album, indulging a range of ideas that reveal Springsteen as still musically curious and more than willing to play around with his sound. Another American rock saint Brian Wilson shows up in the walking bass line on the title track as well as in the Pet Sounds percussion and bababa's of \"This Life\". The scribbly guitar on \"Life Itself\" recalls the Byrds on \"Eight Miles High\" more than Nils Lofgren or Steve Van Zandt, providing a tense backdrop for Springsteen's pleading lyrics. The garbledblues \"Good Eye\", one of the album's weirdest tracks, ratchets Springsteen's distorted vocals to a yelping beat and electrified banjo, but like his recent oneoff download \"A Night With the Jersey Devil\", it feels like merely a demonstration of studio technique.Working on a Dream works hard on sound, but sleeps on actual songs. \"Queen of the Supermarket\" may be the worst thing he's ever written, an overly symphonic ballad about crushing on the stock girl. It's sweet, but there's something about the highflying strings and the intensity of the imagery (\"A dream awaits in aisle number two\") that suggests parody. The checkout beeps that help the song out to its car certainly don't dispel the wink. \"At night I take my groceries and drift away,\" Springsteen sings, but here his workingclass identifications sound a little condescending and inappropriate. Just as \"57 Channels (And Nothing On)\" failed to convince anyone that Springsteen watched a lot of TV, \"Queen of the Supermarket\" can't persuade listeners that he does his own grocery shopping. Now that his big dream has come true, Springsteen doesn't seem to know what to do with himself. So he's trying to do everything. "}