{"label":" Modular","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13140/homepage_large.52e12068.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Eine Kleine Nacht Musik","title":"Eine Kleine Nacht Musik","text":" If things continue apace, everyone will eventually own a record with some variation of the phrase \"Eine kleine Nachtmusik\" in its title. For classical buffs, there's Mozart's original, a popular serenade for strings. For metal heads, there's the 1986 live album by protoblackmetal band Venom. And for fans of electronic music, there's this loving krautrock homage by producer Henry Smithson, betterknown as Riton. Putting aside his usual electrohouse, Smithson mans up with an analog synthesizer and a sitar to get kosmiche in this mashnote to DAF, Cluster, Kraftwerk, and Wolfgang Reichmann.Like all modern krautrock, Eine Kleine Nacht Musik sounds dated in some ways and contemporary in others. Dated, because Krautrock's hallmarks rigid motorik beats, spacey synths, and intricate FX sweeps are so specific and intimately bound to their era. These weren't just aesthetic choices, they were informed by the limitations of analog gear: The originators pushed their tools to the limit, while Smithson imposes limits on himself by wishing away the expanded possibilities of the digital age. But the approach turns out to be modern, too, because the tacit assumption underlying krautrock better living through technology is still very much with us today. A belief in the mechanical utopia's continual progress (or, at least, the echo of that belief) radiates through every infinite pulse and optimistic filter tweak on Eine Kleine Nacht Musik.So this is clearly a nostalgic genre exercise, and it's easy to understand the appeal of this sort of regression. Limited tools whisper of infinite potential, while our broader modern capabilities seem to mock us with our own imperfections. The album is thick with longing for an era when the recipe for transcendence was simply a stark 4/4 beat and enough tape, but Smithson's enthusiasm and skill save it from being clinical or overly arch. The krautrock formula is still potent when handled with care, and here, everything's in its right place. There's plenty of contrast between taut funk and ambient space, and the nonsynthesized instrumentation (including guitar, strings, xylophone, and more) adds a songwriterly dimension: \"Gotterdemmerang\" nightcruises on a boomeranging synth pattern and clipped flutelike melody, then turns weirdly organic with meandering piano and eruptive strings. Some tracks even eschew backbeats entirely, like \"Die Fontaine\", which could be arranged for solo harpsichord without much trouble.Other criteria of good krautrock are ably fulfilled: From the sizzling whistles of \"Feverprobe\" to the pitchbent breakdowns of \"Fachgeschaft\", arresting and minute details abound. And the admirably succinct progressions (no sidelong odysseys here the longest track is five and half minutes) pay off. Sometimes they do so in an obvious but satisfying way, as on opening track \"Ertrinken\", which moves inexorably from inert fanfare to soaring momentum; sometimes it happens more craftily, as on \"Besuchen Sie Mich Einmal\", where chaotically drifting space debris gradually arranges itself into a decisive orbit. The best thing about the album is its balance of interest and ease: Despite all of its lively variation, it seems to coast on cushion of air. It may be oldfashioned, but a little night music never goes out of style. "}