{"label":" ATO","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13160/homepage_large.87cc9848.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Ben Kweller","title":"Changing Horses","text":" Ben Kweller's Changing Horses joins the likes of Beck's Sea Change, Christina Aguilera's Back to Basics, and Mariah Carey's The Emancipation of Mimi on the list of albums with titles that tell you what the artist is doing with his or her career. In Kweller's case the midstream leap is being made from polite, mannered 1960sinfluenced indiepop to polite, mannered 1970s influenced altcountry. It's a clear shift but not a terribly shocking or risky one; in fact, it's practically a rite of passage at this point for an articulate, prodigious young indie songwriter (Conor Oberst, Jenny Lewis) to eventually confuse an acceptance of artistic adulthood with a need to embrace maturity through old Hag records and lots of pedal steel guitar.Of course, for a college radio staple like Kweller, goin' country doesn't necessarily entail digging deep into the genre's roots or taking cues from any of its more successful modern practitioners. Instead, its sources are typically secondary rather than primary, rockers who themselves leaned, dabbled, or dove headlong into country like Bob Dylan, the Band, Gram Parsons, and Tom Petty. Lazy and timorous as this kind of borrowing may seem, it's probably the best route for an artist of Kweller's genial modesty and perpetually adolescent vocal stylings to take.When he ventures out into country's deeper waters, the results can be disastrous, as evidenced by the embarrassing \"Fight\", in which Kweller goofily rhapsodizes a longhaul trucker and exhorts \"you've got to set your sight on the Lord in your life\" with a unearned casualness that's downright insulting (the song lacks the kind of parodic conviviality that could have at least put it in the vein of the Stones' \"Far Away Eyes\"). Similarly, some of Kweller's more overtly wholehog immersions in twang end up feeling like strategies for papering over gonowhere material, particularly on \"Wantin' Her Again\" and the poky opener \"Gypsy Rose\". The tough, Pettyish \"On Her Own\", meanwhile, has plenty to recommend itself from a structural standpoint, yet as a performer the winsome Kweller can't come close to mustering the easy swagger necessary to pull it off.Unsurprisingly, Kweller is at his best here when churning out his patented nervously peppy indie pop and simply coloring it with something a bit downhome. The empathetic, justplainagreeable likes of \"Hurtin' You\", \"Ballad of Wendy Baker\", and \"Things I Like to Do\" (full of endearing asides such as \"I like talking at the diner 'stead of screaming in the noisy bar\") sit far more comfortably in Kweller's wheelhouse, and outshine any fullon retro pastiche like the lateBeatles rip \"Sawdust Man\". (Seriously, leave that stuff for Dr. Dog). Remember, even though Kweller's selftitled 2006 album was too 60s beholden, he possesses a fine, almost entirely selfsustaining album to his credit, 2004's affecting rocker On My Way. While I certainly can't hold it against Kweller for trying something different and playing dressup with a Nudie suit, Changing Horses nonetheless finds his halfassed overcountrification and halfassed undercountrification to be equally ineffectual. "}