{"label":" Slumberland","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13157/homepage_large.6758b248.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"The Pains of Being Pure at Heart","title":"The Pains of Being Pure at Heart","text":" Like plenty of other bands in the internet era, the Pains of Being Pure at Heart seem poised to attract an audience that will far outstrip that of their easily identifiable precedents in their case, groups like Rocketship or Shop Assistants, each obscure these days even by Approved Indie Influence standards. A few other twee/noisepop revivalists arguably pulled off that same trick last year, but Pains of Being Pure at Heart are likely to appeal to listeners beyond online namedroppers and Brooklyn scenesters.That these secondwavers are getting firstrate attention shouldn't be a worry unless you're into dickmeasuring contests about the late1980s (but I was there) or still holding a grudge against Vivian Girls and Crystal Stilts. Despite being such a streamlined listen, The Pains of Being Pure at Heart acts as something of an indie Rorschach: Once our staff got a hold of the fuzzy, majorchord fizz of \"Come Saturday\" or \"Stay Alive\", it raised comparisons to everything from Sleepyhead to Black Tambourine to even Peter Bjorn and John (at their most shoegazy) and Ride (at their most heavylidded). In other words, you'll dig this record as long as you're a fan of trebly, melancholy pop music. Which is quite a lot of people reading this review.What distinguishes POBPAH from the rest of their modern peers is a sense of craft located in the sweet spot between wilfull amateurism masking incompetence and not gumming things up with bells and whistles. It's immediate and substantial, but initially, it can seem distracting that the band is built more for speed than muscle. Yet these aren't songs that need anchors as much as Alex Naidus' bass plays an integral role in pushing everything forward, he's more likely to contribute melodic counterpoint than low end. Kip Berman's voice is appropriately unaffected, working in melodies that almost feel like 45degree angles exact, acute, and just right. Keyboardist Peggy WangEast doesn't harmonize in a traditional sense with Berman very often, but particularly on \"Young Adult Friction\", her vocals are a hook in themselves, taking an already strong chorus to a higher plateau.So yeah, they've got the sound figured out, but what ensures that this will be something that'll make it past the point where the indie cycle of life goes on and bands are inevitably starting to cop the sounds of, say, Archers of Loaf? Regardless of the b&w cover art, there's more gray matter than initially appears. The title alone of \"This Love Is Fucking Right!\" is enough to set off the sugar shock factor (it's a nod to the Field Mice), and that's before the chorus which renders the fbomb \"feckin!,\" but the invocation of \"you're my sister\" before the title is as dark as you want it to be.\"Stay Alive\" is the record's centerpiece, boasting the most anthemic chorus; initially, it could pass for cloyingly optimistic, with belllike keyboard pinches accenting thumbsup signifiers like \"shoot at the sky\" and \"you'll stay alive.\" But once again, after closer listens it takes a darker tone, possibly talking down a suicidal friend. Most tellingly, \"Come Saturday\" sets the stage for the rest of the record with a promise of ignoring parties for a summer wasting and spent indoors. It's every bit as heartfelt as the later lyrical nod to Another Sunny Day.But then again, sincerity never made me turn up the volume. The Pains of Being Pure at Heart simply made a slyly confident debut that mixes sparkling melodies with an undercurrent of sad bastard mopery, and you're just being a dick if you think the past has some kind of patent on that. That's just the way good pop music works. "}