{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13632/homepage_large.df187f4c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Iran","title":"Dissolver","text":" We all know the popular adage about lofi musicians they're more than just tape hiss, background noises, sloppy playing, etc. Real honesttogoodness songwriting lies under that mess, and they could record a conventional pop/rock album if they really wanted to. While the cleanlier output of groups like Guided by Voices, Pavement, and Sebadoh lend credence to this belief, I hesitate to greet a spiffedup Iran album with open arms. With two arcane, challenging, and beautiful albums released in the beginning of the decade, the San Francisco trio reveled in its enigma status, aided by a spectral production (or lack thereof) that rendered many riffs and melodies indecipherable, let alone lyrics.Nearly seven years after the stunning The Moon Boys, Dissolver's first surprise is the crisp, direct songwriting chops of frontman Aaron Aites. With an assist from TV on the Radio guitarist Kyp Malone, Aites trades cloakanddagger garbling for fistpumping \"come on's\" and \"woohoo's,\" cutting a straight up guitar album indebted to bowl cuts and flannel. On twangy opener \"I Can See the Future\" we find Aites' vocals still slouching, but their clarity recalls David Berman or, as one Pitchfork staffer noted, one of Ween's drawling indie rock parodies. For better or worse, Iran's adopted a meaty rock swagger at the cost of their mystique, and they're not looking back.For all the ballyhoo surrounding Malone's contributions and fellow TVOTR member Dave Sitek's coproduction credit, the true highlights occur when Aites' hooks are at their sharpest, and he often struggles to integrate the hitech gadgets into his material. A couple of tracks most notably the sprawling \"Airport '79\" smother hohum folk ditties with spaceage guitar effects and busy overdubs, seemingly to make Iran compatible with 00s indie 2.0. The window dressing's most egregious on ambient instrumental \"Digital Clock and Phone\", a nod to Iran's tUMULtera sound collages that's plopped between the album's tidy, organized songs. Not surprisingly, \"Where I'm Going\" and \"Can I Feel What?\", two brooding ballads with distorted vocals, stand out. Nicely layered guitars do the heavy lifting, allowing Aites' pretty melodies to remain as stubbornly lowkey as on past highlights \"FourArmed Star\" or \"Fading Out\".While it's gutsy stepping out from behind the lofi curtain, you have to wonder to what extent Iran considers Dissolver their comingout party. Alongside the signature slacker pathos there's a faint yearning for bombast, whether in the \"Buddy\" reprise (replete with stadium cheers and a drunken howl of a performance by Aites) or the power pop escapism of stompers like \"Evil Summer\". Yet the album's also bogged down by too much garden variety bar rock that's obliquely produced to masquerade as forwardthinking indie. It's certainly not an infuriating or even annoying direction for the band to go and considering their obscurity I can't imagine hoards of people up in arms over Dissolver but Iran's M.O. has pulled a complete 180. Once producing dense, complex music that rewards each additional listen, Dissolver's content as comfort food for rockists, too quickly sating the listener. "}