{"label":" Internasjonal","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13638/homepage_large.0dd963fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Windsurf","title":"Coastlines","text":" Damn if it didn't rain nearly every day the week Windsurf's Coastlines showed up in my mailbox. I say this reticent to fuel any notion that Pitchfork grades are assigned according to something as random as the weather, or to suggest that certain sounds and constructions are only \"appropriate\" in certain climates. But there they were, Windsurf's resolutely optimistic slowdisco grooves and Coastlines' sunkissed cover art contrasting with the week's slow drizzles.This is where your average glasshalffull Windsurf fan would jump in and say, \"But at least the drizzles were slow,\" punctuating \"slow\" with a swoop of his pointer finger. Fair: Windsurf trade in a laconic, beachside brand of electronic music inexactly referred to as \"Balearic.\" Comprised of San Franciscans Dan Judd and Sam Grawe, Windsurf built their presence last year through an EP and remixes for bands like Low Motion Disco and the Tough Alliance, and Coastlines exists partly in thanks to ubiquitous Norwegian Prins Thomas, who released the record on his recently created Internasjonal label.Windsurf create music lighter and less bulbous than that of their peers. Coastlines is seemingly composed of sets of cleanly drawn lines. Listening to \"Moonlightsun\" progress is not unlike watching someone draw with a new pack of thinline Magic Markers: wires intersect, bold and unmuddied by each other's presence. Percussive echoes are undisturbed by a quickened bassline, which sits idly beside organ patches and an ascending synth line. The first chord change doesn't arrive for nearly two and a half minutes, and when it does it serves as a release valve for any lingering discord, however slight. Even when a track carries on a bit long the extremely pleasant \"Future Warriors\" probably doesn't need its full six minutes Coastlines' clean, balanced mix is a blessing: training your ear on one of those many weaving lines can unlock new perspectives.Such is the way the synthesizers, drum machines, guitars, and occasionally vocals on Coastlines interact with one another. Windsurf's languorous grooves develop naturally, less a product of exacting composition than carefully cultivated vibes. Instruments and melodies rarely seem out of place, but neither is any individual element essential. The bigsky chords that populate the band's namesake track are almost orchestral in their warmth and breadth, but they don't distract from the track's jaunty snares. The confluence of bass sequencers and hardy synth lines in \"White Soweto\" sound almost like Boards of Canada (to whom Windsurf owe a partial debt for their 1970s seaside sprawl) remixed skyward. The whittling funk of \"Light as Daylight\"'s guitars are the homey side of predictable.The duo might not get a pass on their questionable vocals. \"Light as Daylight\" skates by because its mumblemouthed couplets exist only during the song's tremulous budding (the moment when the voice drops and the song's hammy, cleanstruck piano chords fall is one of Coastlines' most strident). \"Bird of Paradise\", though short, doesn't fare as well, its evenly plucked nylonstring guitar drowned by the singer's mundane drawl. Coastlines remains likeable even during the placid, 12minute fadeout of \"Crystal Neon\", but Windsurf's easygoing stroll does have trouble supporting the album's 70minute runtime. Some vacations do last too long, etc. Windsurf prove themselves careful guides, however, never letting the relaxed pacing and sonics of Coastlines slacken their careful details. Just try to keep it off of the turntable when the sky goes gray. "}