{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13633/homepage_large.5d4ec89e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jessica Suarez","artist":"Benjy Ferree","title":"Come Back to the Five and Dime, Bobby Dee Bobby Dee","text":" Surveys suggest that the greatest fear in life is that one will die alone. A concern this monumental makes even the glut of books and albums about death seem paltry. So while maybe \"welcome\" isn't the right word, Benjy Ferree's second album, Come Back to the Five and Dime, Bobby Dee Bobby Dee, which is about the tragic life and lonely death of Disney child actor Bobby Driscoll, mines an inexhaustible subject. His album serves as a tribute to the child star, as well as a meditation on youth, fame, and death. But Driscoll's story never fully transitions into the realm of universalizable metaphor. The way Ferree approaches his life, from personal relationships, to Disney ephemera and 1950s doom, is slightly overwhelming, but it never quite passes beyond the specific constraints of its story. It's hard to see yourself in Driscoll's story, or to live inside these songs. You can't even die in them.Driscoll's story plucks at the heartstrings, for sure. He acted and did voices for several Disney hits, starring in films like Song of the South, Pecos Bill, and Treasure Island. He voiced Peter Pan in the 1953 animated Disney production. Then Driscoll grew up, and, after a bad case of acne, was dropped from his Disney contract. The subsequent details of his life are bizarre and heartbreaking: he went on to do bit parts on network TV dramas, got married as a teenager, had three kids, got addicted to heroin, went to jail, got paroled, moved to New York, became part of Warhol's factory, became disillusioned, and finally disappeared. When his mother came looking for him she found out he had died 19 months earlier of a drugrelated heart attack in an East Village tenement. He was buried in a mass grave in a New York's potter's field on Hart Island. Ferree's obsession with Peter Pan led him to Driscoll's story. It's thematic gold: the child who played Peter Pan grew up and lost his innocence, was manipulated by both Hollywood and the avantgarde, and died alone.Ferree trades in whistles, fourpart harmonies, falsetto, and big guitars. His music is quirky, drawing from both Americana and British rock: doowop and folk next to Queen bombast and blues stomp. In that sense he's come into his own with Bobby Dee; the sinister side of Disney's glee machine sits well with Ferree's dark cheer. That makes songs like \"Fear\", a doowop ballad where Ferree harmonizes beautifully on lines like \"When a mailman wears a mask and brings a ticking box\" and \"it pours blood into every dream,\" worth listening to. He lets children take over the \"yeah yeahs\" on the chorus of \"Blown Out (Gold Doubloons and Pcs of 8)\", as if the contrast of eternal youth and eternal death wasn't explicit enough. Driscoll's story isn't vague inspiration. Ferree uses specific names, places, and references throughout. \"What Would Pecos Do?\", for example, references the Pecos Bill character. If you watched the movie a ton, you'll recognize pieces from its story in lines like \"Drink up all the water/ What was a lake is now a crater.\" If you didn't, then you're kind of screwed here.Three years ago Ferree released his debut album, Leaving the Nest. Bobby Dee is a better record in many ways: Ferree obviously loves his source material, and the way he weaves in the references throughout is ingenious. But something about the pleasure he takes in his obsession cloisters it away  he can't quite make his subject matter in a way that transcends Bobby Driscoll's life and death. His interest in and empathy for Driscoll means he could give a shit about yours. This is Driscoll's and Ferree's album. \"This is my memory/ Yet it's your eyes that swell\" Ferree sings on \"Pisstopher Chrisstopher.\" We're not that \"you.\" "}