{"label":" Dischord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13637/homepage_large.50369adc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Faraquet","title":"Anthology 1997-98","text":" Faraquet's history reads like a love letter to Washington, D.C. punk. Former Smart Went Crazy band members Devin Ocampo and Jeff Boswell formed a mathrockin' power trio with Chad Molter in 1997, released various singles and a split before stepping up with their only fulllength, The View From This Tower, in 2000. In 2001, Faraquet disbanded, and Ocampo and Molter went on to play in Medications.To generalize: former members of forgotten, underrated postpunk band coalesce into a second forgotten, underrated postpunk band that yields an unknown, presumably underrated postpunk band, most of this occurring on, where else, Dischord Records. This progression is D.C. punk's version of \"growing up and getting a real job.\" Anthology 199798 is a collection of the scattered tracks that Faraquet recorded in and after the dying months of Smart Went Crazy, before the release of their debut album; what it lacks in crucial insight it makes up for with nostalgia and completeness.The \"Why?\" alarm in your head is surely sound sounding: Collections like this don't need any Herculean purpose, but neither should the primary reason to anthologize a band's material be \"just because,\" especially when said anthology more than doubles the number of songs available. The best reason may be this: The View From This Tower stands as perhaps the best representation of \"the Dischord sound\" this decade, what with Fugazi mostly on hiatus, Q and Not U weirding out, and Lungfish being and sounding like Lungfish. Anthology is the rollup to View, 10 tracks of Ocampo's boiling guitar and Molter's creatively nervous drumming that contain whiffs of sceney righteousness mostly overpowered by the group's meticulous antijams. For the official ledger, the whole of Faraquet is now available, with these recordings lovingly remixed and remastered.The list of journalistically approved adjectives for groups of Faraquet's ilk goes like this: precise, angular, frenetic, and shouty. Apply those liberally to Anthology but also realize that even as Faraquet mimicked the hoary guitars of Fugazi and the controlled rush of Nation of Ulysses, they were (conservatively) incorporating synthesizers, horns, and string sections into their arrangements. The band's truest influence on Dischord, thematically at least, is probably Jawbox, another declarative, hotcity combo. Not showy instrumentally, Faraquet's feelingout process led to indefinable song structures on tracks like \"YoYo\" and \"Study in Movement\", both of which might provide tidy subheadlines for any discussion of Faraquet's melodic ideas.Not that all of this is apparent from \"Parakeet\" and \"Um Die Ecke\", together the competing sides of Faraquet's first single, the former building momentum from an aggressively lapping riff and the latter winding tightly with syncopated rhythms and Ocampo's stillevolving growl. Ocampo's vocals are the surest barometer of the group's progress; on early songs they echoed the frustration and gnash of his guitar, but by 1998's split with Akarso, they were contemplative and considered, even as he hovered too long on consonants and clipped lines short. Ocampo at times seems conflicted about whether to express his ideas vocally or via guitar, resulting in verses and choruses that appear in odd intervals. On \"Rex\" and \"Sea Song\" (an alternate take on a View track) Ocampo augments his band's strident, midtempo vamps with a young man's regrets: \"I'm drunk again.\"It remains difficult to recommend to anyone not already a convert a 10song oddsandsods collection of a notseminal band that released one ninesong album most of a decade ago. Anthology provides ample reason to reevaluate View, but it does not improve or expand upon it. Faraquet reformed in 2007 to play several shows; hope that those performances and this documentation remind the band of the creativity and excitement they had just begun exploring on the recordings contained here. "}