{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13644/homepage_large.28dbee9d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Beastie Boys","title":"Paul's Boutique","text":" It's easy to forget exactly how painted into a corner the Beastie Boys were after Licensed to Ill came out. Every complaint people harbor against socalled \"hipster rap\" today had its genesis in that debut album nearly 23 years ago a bunch of uppermiddleclass, neverbeenbattled punk rockers in leather jackets and skinny jeans bellowing knowingly obnoxious, semiironic lyrics and it only escalated once the question of the inevitable followup came around. The only thing that would piss purists off more than the notion of three clownish white Jewish kids accidentally inventing fratrap is the fact that they wound up ditching a beloved hiphop label in Def Jam for the corporate juggernaut of Capitol Records. Not to mention jetting their asses to Los Angeles to cut records with the dudes who produced Tone Lōc's \"Wild Thing\". When Paul's Boutique famously tanked upon release peaking at #14 on a preSoundscan Billboard 200 and, even more damningly, only #24 on the R&B/HipHop Top Albums chart the haters triumphantly chortled along with 3rd Bass: \"Screamin' 'Hey Ladies,' Why bother?\"Twenty years later, nobody's asking that question. Paul's Boutique is a landmark in the art of sampling, a reinvention of a group that looked like it was heading for a gimmicky, early deadend, and a harbinger of the popculture obsessions and referential touchstones that would come to define the ensuing decades' postmodern identity as sure as \"The Simpsons\" and Quentin Tarantino did. It's an album so packed with lyrical and musical asides, namedrops, and quotations that you could lose an entire day going through its Wikipedia page and looking up all the references; \"The Sounds of Science\" alone redirects you to the entries for Cheech Wizard, Shea Stadium, condoms, Robotron: 2084, Galileo, and Jesus Christ. That density, sprawl, and informationoverload structure was one of the reasons some fans were reluctant to climb on board. But by extending Steinski's rapidfire soundbite hiphop aesthetic over the course of an entire album, the Beastie Boys and the Dust Brothers more than assured that a generally positive first impression would eventually lead to a listener's dedicated, zealous headlong dive into the record's endlesslyquotable deep end.There's a lot that's already been said about the daring eclecticism and arguably irreproducible anythinggoes technique with which the Dust Brothers assembled the album's beats. The music is a big, shameless love letter to the 1970s filled with a conceptual bookend (the Idris Muhammadsampling, ladiesman ether frolic \"To All the Girls\"), numerous linecompleting lyrical interjections from Johnny Cash, Chuck D, Pato Banton and Sweet, and, just for kicks, nine truncated songs spliced together and stuck in at the end as a staggering 12 and 1/2minute suite. If the sonics on It Takes A Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back evoked a sleepshattering wakeup call and 3 Feet High and Rising a chilledout, sunny afternoon, the personality of Paul's Boutique completed the trinity by perfectly capturing the vibe of a latenight alcohol and onehitterfueled shittalk session. Even now, after being exposed to successively brilliant sampleslayers from the RZA to the Avalanches to J Dilla, it's still bracing just how meticulous the beats are here. These aren't just wellcrafted loops, they're selfcontained little breakbeat universes filled with weird asides, clever segues, and miniature samplesaspunchlines.There's dozens of clever touches and big, ambitious ideas that still sound inspired: a cameo appearance by the opening drumbeats of Mountain's \"Mississippi Queen\" in \"Looking Down the Barrel of a Gun\"; the manic yet seamless percussion rolls and the giddy tour through the Car Wash soundtrack on \"Shake Your Rump\"; the twopart slowtofast tweaking of lateperiod Beatles on \"The Sounds of Science\"; a sparinglyused Alice Cooper guitar riff adding a mockingly pseudobadass counter to the whimsical Gene Harrisbased soul jazz backbone of \"What Comes Around\". It all gets writ large in \"BBoy Bouillabaisse\", the aforementioned albumclosing suite, which careens through turntablist striptease, a notyetthrowback 808/beatboxing showcase, funk grooves of every conceivable tempo, and a Jeepbeat bass monster so massive and allconsuming that JayZ and Lil Wayne 2.0'd it in late 2007. Even the lessfrenetic moments are sonically inventive; there's only two acknowledged and minimallytinkeredwith samples in \"3Minute Rule\", augmented with a starkly simple bassline from MCA himself, but it's one of the finest examples of deep, cavernous dubstyle production on any golden age rap record.And, of course, there's AdRock and MCA and Mike D themselves. Where the aesthetic of Licensed to Ill could have permanently placed them in the crass dirtbagshtick company of \"Married With Children\" and Andrew Dice Clay if they'd kept it up, Paul's Boutique pushed them into a new direction as renaissance men of punchline lyricism. They were still happily at home affecting lowclass behaviors: hucking eggs at people on \"Egg Man\"; going on crosscountry crime sprees on \"High Plains Drifter\"; smackin' girlies on the booty with something called a \"plank bee\" in \"Car Thief\"; claiming to have been \"makin' records when you were suckin' your mother's dick\" on \"3Minute Rule\". But they'd also mastered quickwitted acrobatic rhymes to augment their countless popculture references and adolescent hijinks. \"Long distance from my girl and I'm talkin' on the cellular/ She said that she was sorry and I said 'Yeah, the hell you were'\" we're a long way from \"Cookie Puss\" here.While each member has their spotlight moments MCA's pedaldown tour de force fastrap exhibition in \"Year and a Day\", Mike D having too much to drink at the Red Lobster on \"Mike on the Mic\", and AdRock's charmingly venomous tirade against cokesnorting Hollywood fauxingénues in \"3Minute Rule\" Paul's Boutique is where their backandforth patter really reached its peak. At the start of their career, they built off the tagteam style popularized by RunDMC, but by '89 they'd developed it to such an extent and to such manic, screwball ends that they might as well have been drawing off the Marx Brothers as well. It's impossible to hear the vast majority of this album as anything other than a lockedtight group effort, with its overlapping lyrics and shouted threeman oneliners, and it's maybe best displayed in the classic single \"Shadrach\". After years of postDef Jam limbo and attempts to escape out from under the weight of a fratboy parody that got out of hand, they put together a defiant, iconographic statement of purpose that combined giddy braggadocio with weededout soulsearching. It's the tightest highlight on an album full of them, a quickvolleying, lineswapping 100yard dash capped off with the most confident possible delivery of the line \"They tell us what to do? Hell no!\"As reissues go, the 20th Anniversary rerelease of Paul's Boutique is relatively barebones. There's a richer, cleaner audio mix remastered by the band, a tracklisting that splits \"BBoy Bouillabaisse\" into its separate parts, and a sharp minigatefold package highlighting the iconic cover photo. That so little has been changed is more of a relief than a problem; between the Beatles, Led Zeppelin, and Pink Floyd samples, you'd think the clearance issues would be prohibitive. Just the fact that this album's being reissued with all this care and attention should be enough. After Paul's Boutique failed to move units, it wasn't entirely out of the realm of possibility that the Beasties would wind up like the protagonist of \"Johnny Ryall\" with \"a platinum voice/ But only gold records,\" reduced to obscurity while their most ambitious work faded into cutoutbin purgatory. As it turned out, they created an album we'll probably never hear the likes of again good thing it's deep enough to live in forever. "}