{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13645/homepage_large.687e680b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Fight Bite","title":"Emerald Eyes","text":" While a name like Fight Bite may conjure images of \"CSI\" investigations or that Tyson/Holyfield ear kafuffle, the music of this Texasbased duo is so placid and peaceful as to make their moniker a joke. On Emerald Eyes, their selfreleased debut, they spackle a hazy wash of Leanne Macomber's wispy, Frenchpopstar voice over molassesslow keyboard drones and icily removed synthesized beats. The result is somewhat akin to the sexy somnambulance of Beach House or the eerie ambiance of Julee Cruise, and thus Fight Bite join other members of the freshman class of 2008 (see also: Vivian Girls, Crystal Stilts) who are obsessed with Phil Spector's girlgroup pop and aloof shoegazer effects. Unlike their classmates, however, they are neither from Brooklyn nor are they interested in garagerock throttle, so their dreamy, dense songs are infused with a suburban innocence and drained of anything resembling aggression or rebellion.Fight Bite first made a name for themselves in 2008 with their blogbeloved single \"Swissex Lover\", and that gossamer duet is still the standout: Macomber's whispery voice leaks into the shimmering keyboards, whose drowsy calliope tones are almost indistinguishable from Jeff Louis' faraway backing vocals. Most of the nine other tracks on the collection follow a similar formula: slow, haunting keyboard chords fill up the track leaving little room for the tinny percussion or watery, remote singing that spills into a wash of diaphanous melody. Specific lyrics are, therefore, hard to identify, but clearly these are bruised love songs, as the ache is palpable.There are few tracks that rise above the album's purposely laconic pace, but those that do are among the collection's best. \"Age of Faith\", with its percolating \"ba ba ba\"s and Macomber's ShangriLasindebted spokenword patter, is a welcome moment of levity, even if much of its bright coloring is buried behind a thick cloud of foggy reverb. \"Widow's Peak\" is a stinging tune built on a buzzing keyboard foundation that begins as videogame bleeps and evolves into a gothic carousel stomp. And \"Small Wonder\" raises the pulse of the rhythmically mannered record with almostdancefloorworthy beats and a melody that, despite being delivered in a glossy coo and cocooned in lovely harmony, can't help but remind you of the chorus to Rick Springfield's \"I've Done Everything For You\".The main problem, however, with this charming album it's that it is too onenote. With not enough dynamic difference between them, the gauzy songs start to bleed together. But that's a rookie mistake. Fight Bite definitely have more songs in them like \"Swissex Lover\", and their moderately uptempo numbers show a lot of promise. Perhaps on their next outing they will have developed enough confidence in their sound to stray outside its strict parameters. In the meantime, we have the analog warmth of Emerald Eyes a perfect hibernation soundtrack to keep us cozy during this chilly season. "}