{"label":" Fistolo","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13643/homepage_large.03318f04.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Franz Nicolay","title":"Major General","text":" We've been in the same room maybe a dozen times now, but I'd never heard Franz Nicolay speak until I saw him play to a halfempty house on a Saturday night a few weeks back. Over the last few years, the wineswilling, Rollie Fingerslooking keyboardist for the greatest rock'n'roll band going that'd be the Hold Steady and charter World/Inferno Friendship Society member has proven himself to be his band's notsosecret weapon. Still, Nicolay manages to largely hide in plain sight where the Hold Steady's concerned, deferring to the outsized stage presence and unmatched lyricism of one Craig Finn.You'll forgive me for dropping this particular bomb on you: Franz is not, as it turns out, the premier songwriter in his more famous coterie. In some ways, it ain't even close the competition's stiff, after all but on Major General, Nicolay's proper solo debut following a 2007 collection of demos, proves him a surprisingly close second. Eclectic and ambitious but unshowy, Major General is about as satisfying as any solo effort from a member of an established band still killing it themselves as I can think of. If Franz didn't spent most of his nights in the enviable position to the right of Finn and the rest of the Hold Steady, with songs like these it's not hard imagine him having an awfully good go of it on his own.Major General moves a fair piece between the Hüsker Dülike urgency of opener \"Jeff Penalty\" to the loungey, languid closer \"I'm Done Singing\", hitting mid1990s altrock, tipsy Billy Joel balladry, Sunday afternoon swing, and Eastern European folktinged raveups along the way. I can't quite tell if \"Jeff Penalty\" is a highlight or the highlight, but it's certainly a winner, spinning a noteperfect yarn of seeing the Jello Biafraless Dead Kennedys revue. In Nicolay's tale, the crowd reluctantly accepts \"Jeff Whatisname\" and refuses to stop believin'. It's as good a song about navigating aging in the scene never selling out, after all, just turns you into the old guy in the room as any on the Hold Steady's Stay Positive, and if they were to slip it into a setlist sometime soon, they wouldn't miss a step.From there, Nicolay moves all over the place, heading into the boisterous, almost Tom Waitsian \"Hey Dad!\" to the lovely (if unfortunately titled) \"World/Inferno vs. the End of the Evening\" and the almost operatic stomp of \"Dead Sailors\". The sound largely vacillates between the rockers, the ballads, and the spindly gypsyfolk numbers. Because Nicolay's got some opera in his throat and some unusual stuff in his arrangements, something like Frog Eyes might be the best reference point for these. But however you care to call 'em, they're the most compositionally assured things here, and also the least effective. Nicolay's fondness for unorthodox rock instrumentation the guy does play both the banjo and the accordion quite a bit on this set, as he does with \"World/Inferno\" is nice to hear. But the songs he writes with a lot of pickin' andasqueezin' don't hit the gut like the rest, favoring lyrical flights of fancy and big bursts of sound over the acutely rendered observations of the more traditionally rocky stuff here.Apart from those and the relatively slight \"Do We Not Live in Dreams?\", though, Major General hits some massive highs and nary a single crushing low. \"Jeff Penalty\" is a monster and \"Confessions of an Ineffective Casanova\", despite another lousy title, might be even better, finding Nicolay spitting game about a strange relationship over a freewheeling guitar chug that would've fit nicely on a playlist next to the Gin Blossoms and, oh, Sugar. It's just as easy to imagine \"Jeff Penalty\" inspiring the most meta mosh pit ever, as it is to see legions of grown folks raising a glass to the winedrunk \"End of the Evening\", and Nicolay's skill at playing punk sage on one song and slightly troubled troubadour on the next is really something special.Of course, a record that flirts with this many genres can feel a bit unfocused, and the slight sag to the back half and either one too many klezmery tunes or one too few punkers, I can't quite decide keeps Major General from feeling like an album rather than a baker's dozen songs in sequence. But if the old adage is true and the first LP really is a lifetime of ideas on wax, Nicolay's laid out an awful lot here. Let's just hope he doesn't feel compelled to say quite so much if he ever gets around to making another one. "}