{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13651/homepage_large.c91393bd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Booka Shade","title":"Cinematic Shades (The Slow Songs)","text":" Every DJ faces the same question once they step into the studio: how, and how far, will their aloneinaroom sound range beyond their swaythecrowd sound? Walter Kammermeier and Arno Merziger of Booka Shade, the crown jewel of their Berlin label Get Physical, have built a loyal following from their globehopping career as a DJ duo. Fans wondering if the atmosphere and groove could transfer found on Memento, their impressively cohesive electrohouse debut, were pleased that it did. Not so in last year's The Sun & the Neon Light, which skipped schizophrenically between uptempo spark and downtempo fizzle. For the most part, the record was greeted with furrowed brows and question marks.This should not have come as a shock. At its core, the expansive sound of Booka Shade is marked by restraint and repose, not trance's rollercoaster crests and troughs. Movements was a showstopper, but it is hard to deny that, apart from \"In White Rooms\", the album's Apollonian cool doesn't make it easy to work into hotblooded Dionysian DJ sets. The slower tempos and softer beats didn't stop there. Listeners discovered that the elegant lightness of the first two LPs was also missing in the recent The Sun & the Neon Light, which had a languorous density that brought to mind Cluster, Depeche Mode, and the Orbital of Snivilisation and In Sides. There will always be a gulf between Booka Shade the DJs and Booka Shade the recording artists; as it widens, the gulf is merely being enshrined in their new compilation.\"Outskirts\", the first track from their last record, opens this collection as well. Recast by Trentemoller, the relatively conventional, slowburning original morphs into a cosmic journey, proceeding at triphop speed into spacewestern territory. It seems to be the perfect entryway into a compilation clumsily dubbed Cinematic Shades (The Slow Songs). All the looped bloops and blips of digital percussion on the Movements version of \"Night Falls\" withdraw, in the Larry Gold reimagining here, to the wings. What's left isn't so much the orchestral maneuvers of Philly International disco baroque, but instead something closer to, believe it or not, a Van Dyke Parks arrangement: layers of violin given to peppy flutter and assertive stabs.These are the strong points. Six tracks are filed as Cinematic Shades edits, over half of which we encountered over the past few years. Obviously we heard the title track of the last album on, you know, the last album, but we also heard, for instance, \"Outskirts (Cinematic Shades Edit)\" there as well, billed simply as \"Outskirts\". So plainly the problem with Cinematic Shades isn't the aesthetic: as far as chillout records go, this one operates a very high level of artistry and sonic detail though it isn't unreasonable to bemoan a stylistic slip from Berlin's warehouses toward Washington D.C.'s Eighteenth Street Lounge. Most long for the old Metro Area vibes of Memento's \"Vertigo\" or Movements' \"Night Falls\". The problem is that we have heard these before, not the general sound but specifically these songs, and their resurfacing here will strike fans as unnecessary. "}