{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13653/homepage_large.2e0771fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"M. Ward","title":"Hold Time","text":" Matt Ward is no longer at the point in his career where you devote an entire album to the memory of an obscure folk guitar hero. The Portlandbased singer, songwriter, and accomplished guitar player is enjoying his highest level of mainstream recognition yet, thanks in no small part to a fine, comfortingly nostalgic collaboration with actress Zooey Deschanel last year as She & Him. He has shared stages with Norah Jones, Jenny Lewis, Bright Eyes, and My Morning Jacket. During the presidential primary season, he played a benefit show for Barack Obama.On Hold Time, Ward loses himself to find himself. With increasingly expansive production and broader lyrical themes, Ward's sixth studio album polishes away a little bit more of the individual character that makes his best recordings so human and rewarding. Paradoxically, that mostly just reinforces Ward's defining trait: a conviction that simple songs can transcend time, and that categorizing music by era can be just as artificial as categorizing music by genre. Ward argues his case pretty convincingly for much of the album, if not quite as eloquently as he has in the past.Hold Time is not an albumlength diatribe about your cable company's understaffed customerservice call centers. \"If only I could hold time,\" Ward's winningly cracked voice sighs wistfully on the title track, a stringsandpiano ballad that sounds like \"The Long and Winding Road\" and namechecks the Beach Boys compilation Endless Summer. Where 2003's Transfiguration of Vincent was inspired by a memorial service for folk legend John Fahey, 2005's Transistor Radio had the golden age of radio, and 2006's PostWar had wars, Hold Time is conceptually similar to Ward's underrated sophomore album, 2001's End of Amnesia. Back then Ward was helping us remember. Now he's making time stand still, with old sounds, a few old songs, and ageold subjects: love, god, old songs. He also has some indiefamous guest stars.Bigger arrangements; same folk, rock'n'roll, and Americana roots. With mixing and assistance from Saddle Creek mainstay Mike Mogis, plus strings by Peter Broderick (Horse Feathers, Efterklang), Ward keeps his voice sounding lofi even when the production is Phil Spectorsized. \"Never Had Nobody Like You\" alludes to The Dark Side of the Moon while basically rewriting The Music Man's \"Till There Was You\" as a stomping glamrock duet with Deschanel. Ward could've stopped writing \"Stars of Leo\" early and called it \"I Get So High\", but to his credit he keeps going; the cascading guitars, vivid verses, and multilayered percussion make it one of the album's best tracks (though it's not actually \"above\" the namechecked \"Sea of Love\"). However, orchestration and vocal overdubs aren't enough to save acoustic strummer \"Jailbird\" from dying in its cage, despite some twangy, lyrical lead guitar work.God is the perfect subject for a songwriter of Ward's aspirations toward timelessness. Shuffling guitar hoedown \"Fisher of Men\" extends one of Jesus' favorite metaphors, while the organkissed surferfolk wisdom of strippeddown \"Blake's View\" is touching and beautifully phrased, its potentially grating reference to Blake perhaps a way for Ward to distance himself from the song's reassuring sentiments even while offering us comfort in them (pretty close to Transfiguration's \"Dead Man\", though). \"If you're trying to sing an old song/ You're getting all the words wrong,\" he sings, crediting Paul, whether the Apostle or the Beatle, on strings plus banjo acidrocker \"Epistemology\". Grandaddy's Jason Lytle fits well enough into the Wall of Sound on bouncy, clever \"To Save Me\". Suggested alternate title: \"He's Got the Whole World in His Hands (So Would It Kill the Motherfucker to Answer a Guy's Prayers?)\".Covers are another way Ward sets Hold Time out of time. One of them sure goes on forever, anyway: a ponderous rendition of country classic \"Oh Lonesome Me\" with awkward call and response vocals featuring an outofplace Lucinda Williams. Buddy Holly's \"Rave On\" matches up nicely with Ward's simpleisgood philosophy, and this laidback remake is sonically detailed enough (another Deschanel guest spot) to justify itself it has nothing on Transfiguration's ironyfree cover of David Bowie's \"Let's Dance\", though. Meanwhile, Ward's instrumental take on Billie Holidaysung jazz standard \"I'm a Fool to Want You\" is a smoldering guitar showcase recalling Neil Young's Dead Man soundtrack work or the solos of Giant Sand's Howe Gelb, who released Ward's debut a decade ago.Memory is the world's greatest liar. So it's possible that Ward's past albums seem a cut or two above Hold Time only through the rosetinted lens of hindsight sort of like how we've come to romanticize the Old West, say, or previous eras of rock'n'roll. But the new one, although steeped in American music tradition, could use some more of the pioneering spirit that got us here. Hold Time is an enjoyable, wellconstructed album, and as good a place as any for newcomers to start it just doesn't hold many surprises. If it all seems too familiar to you, too impersonal, try the back catalog. As memory turns to myth, some myths are worth remembering. Not only John Henry, but Prometheus, too. "}