{"label":" Catsup Plate","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1257/homepage_large.d1adcd2b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Animal Collective","title":"Campfire Songs","text":" I was driving around with my father, letting him prattle unprompted and unabatedabout the good ol' days in the country: working on the farm, driving the tractor, drinking Big Red, listening to the radio wafting out into the open fields. Having spent most of his days dreaming of a place of his own out there, where he could sit on the screened porch on a summer night, playing cards, drinking cold beers, listening to old Willie Nelson wavering as his hand played out, it seemed to come true almost ten years ago, when he had his own ranch house. And yet, he finally confided to me that he had never, in all those years, drank a beer or played cards, much less sat out on the porch listening to Willie. It was one of the saddest admissions I ever heard from my old man.I tried to be discreet when I listened to this Campfire Songs CD; I tried to make sure he was beyond earshot of this Animal Collective offshoot, as the vibrations would no doubt come to bear on all those dark, mosquitofilled evenings he missed. Recorded on somebody's porch in rural Maryland, Campfire Songs is supremely relaxed, intent on reveling in the blissful pastoralism longed for by Avey Tare and Geologist's \"Good Country: (off of Danse Manatee), yet not by way of its tribal electronics and urban babble. Instead, we have awkwardly plucked strings and arrhythmic, strummed ellipses curving in and out of each other as they lay in the clearing, insects wandering through their hair as the leaves of the tambourine trees rustle on \"Queen in my Pictures\". The trio of voices, scarcely harmonized, creates a discernible motion, moving in and out of each other's throats, erecting a semblance of structure that stabilizes for a night, even if it's built on the flimsiest of timbres.As they turn their meandering strums into \"Doggy\", Campfire Songs almost approach the eroding acoustic glow the Grifters tenaciously shone from Eureka, the embers burning low under the gray ash as the sounds of rain fall and hiss about their little circle. The flames slowly build back, fanned by banjo and mandolin, the sound billowing from smoky green sticks and crackling branches. Somewhere a plane circles, droning high overhead, revealing open space in the lofi recording.\"Two Corvettes\" is more content to idle, absorbing the night air. Just when you think they're falling asleep, the acoustic guitars stumble back with a clenched rattling, their voices turning more animalistic, wailing just past the light of the fire. If the Oldham boys had clopped up in ostrich skin boots to Buzzy Linhart's loft space around 4am at Frank's to holler out \"Come A Little Dog\" still haunted by the coyote spirits that bellow up in the Hill Country they may as well have blazed over to this back porch instead. But when the Campfires start to channel \"Taking Care of Business\" while the katydids yammer in the distance, it hits you: these are city slickers out on a weekend trip.These boys are taking Willie Nelso's golf balls and cracking them open, slowly unraveling the rubber band and nylon twine wrap until they arrive at the gooey gray center of it all, tentatively biting into the blue goop once dumped into Whiskey River. High on said toxins, they lose themselves in a drifting, imaginary suite, a patch of fantasy that made this city boy pine for a beautiful place out in the country. "}