{"label":" Studio","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13654/homepage_large.60773bb1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Studio 1","title":"Studio 1","text":" Wolfgang Voigt is one of techno's most impressive figures by any measure (clarity of vision, crispness of technique, and radness of hair chief among them), but of special note now is how important he's been to those who might not have turned to techno without him. When Voigt's work started oozing out of electronicmusic circles around the mid1990s, the notion of German techno retained a significant aura of the exotic and the alien engaging with it was more difficult than simply administering a download queue. Voigt's early records under aliases like Mike Ink, M:I:5, Gas, and Studio 1 trafficked in variegated sounds that seemed to share a common project, most likely related to connecting the ineffable qualities of mystery to the strict constraints of structure. And then came offerings from his epochal labels Profan and Kompakt, which helped establish Voigt's hometown of Cologne as a fully functioning electronicmusic lab with municipal interests. To legions of farflung listeners reared on postrock and curious about snatches of electronic music heard here and there (Autechre, Oval, Aphex Twin), Voigt played as a unique sort of techno ambassador. He was experimental but functionally inclined, meticulous but free, a spirited scenemaker whose singularity was hard to mistake. The classic 12\"s made under the name Studio 1 represent Voigt at his rigorous and minimalistic. Indeed, no history of minimaltechno could go long without acknowledging Voigt's debt. But Studio 1 is more than a mere historical artifact, in part for the ways it continues to make the \"present\" its project. One of Voigt's special touches as a producer is the way he articulates everything with a mix of delicacy and force that proves hard to pull apart. It's not far into \"Neu 1\", the first of 10 tracks collected here, when it becomes clear that very little, if anything, is going to change by track's end. (Voigt, in all his guises, is a serious maestro of repetition.) But with that realization comes the strange spectral thrill that attends paying attention to nothing beyond what is most fully and firmly in view. With no prospect of a soothing interlude or a dramatic drop in the offing, focus turns entirely to the tsstss of the hihat, the roundness of a bassline, the clarity of the snare.  And from that follows a secondary realization that, in fact, everything is going to change, at least a little. \"Blau 2\" starts with the stoic sound of a warehouse party happening a couple of blocks away, before the steady accrual of minute details gives the whole thing a manic galloping energy. Tracks of that sort scan as \"techno\" in the most austere sense, but others like \"Rosa 1\" delve deep into something more like dub, with shortedfuse sounds layered over top rhythms that lean back and stay out of the way. And then there’s something like the hyperhectic \"Rot 2\", which follows clicky formalism to such extremes that it turns to pure abstraction without ever announcing its departure. To that end, every track on Studio 1 plays like a serious study of the ways that articulation means the most when the message starts to stray. "}