{"label":" Fractured","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13675/homepage_large.a983a638.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Matmos / Fennesz / Jason Forrest / Ryoji Ikeda / Barbara Morgenstern / SND / Mika Vainio","title":"Recovery","text":" I'm sitting on the floor, next to the stereo, computer in my lap. I'm listening to songs like \"Running Up That Hill\" and \"Billie Jean\" and \"Back in Black\". I'm parked here next to the turntable because I'm playing 7\" singles, which means I need to be ready to put something new on every three or four minutes. But something strange is going on: \"Back in Black\" consists only of a couple of sine wave tones for bass and a few blasts of white noise static for the guitar riff; \"Billie Jean\" is little more than a few clicks, and you can just barely make out the bassline; and I can't tell you what is going on with this crazy \"Running Up That Hill\".Recovery is a 7\" box set (10 singles, 20 tracks) put out by the Fractured label. It comes housed in thick box and the design of the set (by Graham Dolphin) is sharp and well put together but not too fancy. It feels a bit more like an art object more than a functional set of music, which I guess is appropriate. The people behind Recovery asked 20 artists working in the realm of experimental music they are drone purveyors, laptop abstractionists, extreme techno minimalists, and improvisers, but they don't have much truck with popular music to cover a song from the past that's been especially significant to them. So we get extreme minimalist Ryoji Ikeda doing AC/DC, UK click'n'cutters SND doing Michael Jackson, and Mika Vanio, best known for his postindustrial work in Pan Sonic, doing Kate Bush.In the best tracks here you can hear a sense of discovery and the fresh crackle of energy that comes from two aesthetics colliding. Richard Chartier makes highly detailed microsound pieces, and Russian producer/composer CoH is too prolific to pin down, though he has a fondness the harsh and noisy. But they come together on for a version of Soft Cell's \"Bleak Is My Favorite Cliché\", slowing the original to halfspeed, adding some mechanized hum, and whispering the lyrics. It feels like isolationism/dark ambient soundscaping mixed with proper goth, and the effect is thrilling. BJ Nilsen, best known now for his albums of field recordings, covers Joy Division's \"Heart and Soul\", keeping the tense, grinding groove of the original almost exactly but fleshes it out with judiciously placed distortion, and the affection he brings to the material is palpable. Thoughtful reworks these might be, but the pleasures are immediate and obvious.Matmos' terrific choice of cover, Bow Wow Wow's \"C30, C60, C90, Go!\", is a sly reminder that Recovery is a defiantly physical object (vinylonly, no mp3s), comprised of songs from a time when all music could be held in the hand. Google the lyrics of the 1980 hit and marvel at how accurately they predict present modes of music consumption (Matmos thought enough of the words to print them on the 7\" label here). Matmos also deliver musically, mirroring the clattering Burundi beat of Bow Wow Wow quite closely while adding some wicky highpitched squelches and whispered vocals for a net effect that is cartoonish and playful. (Here I note that Matmos' Drew Daniel has written for Pitchfork.) The flip of the Matmos single is Barbara Morgenstern doing New Order's \"Temptation\", which serves as a reminder of how hard it is to mess up a brilliant song, though her slightly awkward phrasing and modest bedroom pop production nicely play up the song's vulnerability.Interesting but perhaps not surprising is that most of the songs chosen come from the 1980s and, depending on how broad your definition, can be loosely classified as new wave. It's a clear reminder of how much sway that era held for artists later working in the electronic field, even the bands that haven't since been canonized. Both Fennesz' version of AHa's \"Hunting High and Low\" and Jóhann Jóhannsson's take on OMD's \"Souvenir\" zero in on the lush romanticism of the new pop era's sonics, blowing things up to 70mm widescreen proportions. Though in the press notes for the set Jóhannsson claims that his track is \"revenge\" for being seduced by OMD as a kid before later discovering their superior influences, these two tracks feel like loving homages that demonstrate how almost any song's unexplored corners can be transformed into something new by a good listener. Serving as counterweights to these highs are the handful of tracks that seem like conceptual goofs, some of which are pretty fun (Ikeda on \"Back in Black\") some of which are boring (Vanio's track is nice enough, but its relationship to Kate Bush is vague at best) and some of which seem pointless (never really dug SND's original stuff, and this \"Billie Jean\" does nothing for me.)It goes out without saying that cover comps these days are a dime a dozen. Indie artists pay tribute to heroes, smirk along to guilty pleasures, and logroll with likeminded contemporaries to keep their names in the blogs. It seems a harmless trend, if uninspiring. But the artists here aren't involved in such games. These are intellectual types, people with concepts, who think things through when taking on new projects. Recovery reflects this more cerebral and considered stance, and some of these covers seem like commentaries or venues to work through ideas more than musical tributes (or, for that matter, sendups). Which means that Recovery is \"interesting\" more often than it's \"fun.\" But there's still enough variety in the mix to make the whole project worthwhile. "}