{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13680/homepage_large.5a176586.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Loren Connors & Jim O'Rourke","title":"Two Nice Catholic Boys","text":" Jim O'Rourke is a sly collaborator. It's tempting to call him a chameleon, given the way he slides into musical partnerships without imposing his will on them. But O'Rourke doesn't mimic so much as he finds the parts of his creative personality that best match whoever he's playing with. Think of his affiliations with Wilco and Sonic Youth, his meshing with Jeff Tweedy in Loose Fur and Fennesz and Pita in Fenn O'Berg, his wideranging production work with Faust, John Fahey, U.S. Maple, etc. In nearly every case, it's hard to pick out which sounds and ideas are O'Rourke's, but the music is clearly affected by his presence.Maybe it's easier to spot O'Rourke when he plays in a duo. But even then, he often fits his talents snugly inside those of his chosen partner. That was true of his first duo CD with Loren Connors, In Bern, and it's equally true of Two Nice Catholic Boys, recorded during the same 1997 European tour as In Bern. Part of the credit, of course, is due to Connors. His keen collaborative ear is as sharp as O'Rourke's, and his minimal guitar style, with its patient pace and open air, feels tailormade for collaboration. Still, on all three pieces here, you can hear Connors' patented sound instantly, while O'Rourke's styles are slippier and sneakier, more cleverly camouflaged.Take the first track, \"Maybe Paris\". It begins with overlapping sheets of fuzz, as the pair ignites flames by rubbing guitar sounds together. The wiry wails sound distinctly Connorsesque, but all the sounds mesh so well, they could be coming from either player. Five minutes in, the track shifts abruptly into sparse, gentle reflection. This section is pure Connors, a hypnotic string of notes that hint at melody but never fall into repetitive patterns. It's stunning how quickly and naturally O'Rourke adapts to this development. The two players circle each other so responsively that the piece is like a sonic Mobius strip. Each note feels like both a leader and follower, as if someone has discovered the world's first fourhanded guitarist.\"Or Possibly Koln\" follows, leaning more toward the heavy end, including a thunderous section halfway through. But again, Connors and O'Rourke swerve into a restrained passage, mixing rhythmic loops with single notes in a way that recalls Lou Reed and Sterling Morrison's simple interplay on songs like \"Pale Blue Eyes\" and \"Jesus\". Only on the closer, \"Most Definitely Not Koln\", does the pair drift offcenter a bit, with distant sounds that seem oddly disembodied. But even that track wakes up eventually, with a sudden passage of screaming noise on the level of feedbackwranglers like Jimi Hendrix or Keiji Haino. Such peaks are testament to the tenacity of these two accomplished musicians even at its most placid points, there's always the threat of surprise lurking around the corners of Two Nice Catholic Boys. "}