{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13683/homepage_large.da7f97cd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Odawas","title":"The Blue Depths","text":" Originally formed in Indiana and then shuffled across the Midwest to the Bay Area, Odawas have often seemed as much an ambitious studio project as a fullon band. Now trimmed to the core duo of songwriter Michael Tapscott and arranger Isaac Edwards, this is even more the case on The Blue Depths. Fueled by a passion for Vangelis soundtracks, 1980sera Joni Mitchell, and the West Coast sounds of Jack Nitzsche, Odawas have here clearly chosen to immerse themselves in the enveloping comforts of the studio.On their two previous Jagjaguwar albums, 2005's The Aether Eater and 2007's Raven and the White Night, Odawas dabbled in a little bit of everything: dreamy folk tunes, distorted psychrock, and expansive highconcept librettos. For The Blue Depths, however, they've left behind nearly all of their more melodramatic artrock moves, showing a newfound restraint only hinted at on Raven. Here their sound is rich and sumptuous, steeped in the willowy textures of homemade and/or vintage keyboards and Tapscott's yearning, romantic lyricism. Though this more streamlined approach does reduce some of the sheer anythingmighthappen thrill of their earlier work, Odawas have here clearly found their niche, and it is a pleasure to listen as they fully commit themselves to this chosen course.The subtle shift in the group's approach is evident from the first notes of \"The Case of the Great Irish Elk\". In the past, Odawas' various acoustic and electronic elements have sometimes coexisted uneasily in the mix, but here everything is submerged into the same graceful and luxuriant stream. Tapscott's acoustic guitar and harmonica are treated and processed in the same manner as Edwards' supple layers of St. Elmo's Fire keyboards, while rogue elements of strings and percussion rise almost invisibly to the surface. As a result, The Blue Depths is by far Odawas most coherent and consistent work, as the duo are able to find a precise sonic and emotional tone and sustain it for the full length of the album's eight tracks.Buoyed by the album's production, Tapscott delivers his most emotive performances to date, though like everything else his lyrics are frequently obscured in the gentle tides of the mix. His vocal style will always draw comparisons to Neil Young, but the electronic arrangements here are unlike anything in Young's catalog, hewing closer to Jason Lytle's work with Grandaddy circa The Sophtware Slump. The homespun radiance of Odawas' production serves to make Tapscott's voice sound all the more fragile and human on such dreamy tracks as \"Our Gentle Life Together\" or \"Moonlight/Twilight\", striking a reassuring harmony between the organic and the artificial.Though there is nothing here quite as majestic and immediately captivating as \"Alleluia\" from Raven and the White Night, on the album's best tracks Tapscott seems effortlessly able to communicate a certain indefinable sense of loss and longing. On the chorus of the shadowy \"Swan Song of the Humpback Angler\" his voice keens with emotion, while the buoyant pop rhythms of \"Harmless Lover's Discourse\" help disguise what might be a lament of goodbye. His vocals drenched in reverb, Tapscott's specific words can get muffled, but more often than not that only helps to add a welcome sense of mystery to The Blue Depths, as for the first time it seems Odawas know precisely where they want to go and how they plan to get there. "}