{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13705/homepage_large.69ea3ea8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Grandmaster Flash","title":"The Bridge: Concept of a Culture","text":" For all of the hiphop landmarks to see the light in 1988  It Takes a   Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back  ,  By All Means Necessary  ,  Straight Outta Compton  ,  Critical Beatdown  ,  Long Live the Kane  ,  The Great Adventures of Slick Rick   one detail that often goes overlooked is the fact that it was also the year Grandmaster Flash released his last LP, briefly reuniting with Melle Mel to drop the commercially disappointing  On the Strength  . After it tanked, Flash shifted his focus to become a highly indemand touring DJ, which wasn't the worst career move: His status as a musical icon is indelible in any case, and some of the mixes he released like 2002's bboy break/scratch showcase  The Official Adventures of Grandmaster Flash  or 1997's disco mix  Salsoul Jam 2000  (rereleased in 2005 as  Mixing Bullets and Firing Joints  ) are essential for anyone who likes oldschool hiphop.But while I won't begrudge Flash for wanting to get back into the studio and reassert his place in the hiphop pantheon, maybe we should all agree to pretend that  The Bridge  doesn't actually exist. Expecting a great, sonically relevant album in 2009 from one of the few hiphop artists to get pressed on wax 30 years ago might be a bit naïve especially when the artist in question hasn't dropped a fulllength album of original beats since the Reagan administration but it's  Flash  , dammit, the man who personified the DJ for an entire generation. How could he have a hand in anything so subpar?The reason is simple: he's trying to be something he's never been. The production of  The Bridge  sounds like it came out of an extended catchup session, the work of a man best accustomed to the breakbeat era's techniques trying his hand at the last ten years' worth of clubrap digitalism. That's why there's almost no samples on this album and, alarmingly enough, a severe dearth of actual scratching and cutting, aside from the interludelength track \"Zuka the Sound\" and the clusterfuck \"Here Comes My DJ\", which features DJ Kool and DJ Demo and a lot of subKhaled yelling. \"Tribute to the Breakdancer\" is the only other track that sounds like it has some connection to the oldschool continuum Flash helped establish, and it's such a fossilized, halfhearted rememberthe80s cliché that it marks the first time I've actually rolled my eyes when the immortal \"Apache\" break popped up.The rest of the album is built on a foundation of flatsounding synths and stylistic confusion: fluffy fauxSoulquarians (\"Shine All Day\"; \"Grown & Sexy\"), tinny, staggerstep pretendTimbaland (\"Bounce Back\"), clubpop beats that Fergie would have to think for a minute or two about before greenlighting (\"Those Chix\"), and a number of post Mary J. Rap&B sounds that could've been constructed any time in the last 15 years (\"Unpredictable\"; \"Swagger\").    \"  Oh Man  \"  , the albumclosing showcase for Natacha Atlas and MySpace find Syndee, is the least tonedeaf track on the album    and it  '  s essentially just straightup house music. I don  '  t doubt for a moment that Flash has kept his ear to the streets at every opportunity over the last several years, but this kind of thing just doesn  '  t play to his strengths. The guest list bears some of the blame for  The Bridge  's failings, too, though it's a bit of a disappointing surprise how perfunctory some of these legends sound. QTip's verse on \"Shine All Day\" tries to extend the love vibes of  The Renaissance  and comes up with Hallmark mawkishness (\"ominous clouds come and get dreary/when you're around though, girl, I'm never weary\"), Snoop Dogg's pimpautopilot verse on \"Swagger\" isn't passable enough to endure Lynn Carter's syrupy, pitchcorrected hook for, and if you were geeked to find out that Big Daddy Kane shows up twice on this album, keep in mind it's ladiesman Kane and not bestMCevercandidate Kane. KRSOne comes closest to surprising, taking the potentially didactic worldwithouthiphop scenario of \"What If\" and, after stating that an entire culture would be poorer without it, admitting that criminal culture wouldn't be as widely celebrated either. Inner conflict? In  my  nostalgia trip? Flash does deserve some credit for giving some relative unknowns a chance to shine on a record with  hiphop'  s most legendary DJ on the cover, though it says something that the most intriguingsounding of the album  '  s obscure MCs    Sweden  '  s Afasi, Spain  '  s KaseO, Japan  '  s Maccho, and Senegal  '  s Abass, who liven up  \"  We Speak  hiphop\"  don  '  t even rap in English. The notion that Flash is an international ambassador of  hiphop  and a man who escaped the meat grinder of pop music  '  s disposable star culture to make it as an independentlyoperating veteran means a lot more than his ability to get behind the boards and crank out some generic club bangers. Weak as  The Bridge  is, it  '  s not even remotely enough to damage his legacy or his true skills on the wheels of steel.  "}