{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13704/homepage_large.3be23e4b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Dent May & His Magnificent Ukulele","title":"The Good Feeling Music of Dent May and His Magnificent Ukulele","text":" By now you may have heard that young throwback crooner Dent May was discovered by Animal Collective during the recording of  Merriweather Post Pavilion  in Oxford, Miss., and subsequently signed to the group's Paw Tracks imprint. That fact has a lot of folks excited about the newcomer, but May is not your typical A.C.related artist. In fact, on the wide spectrum of musical styles he's probably as far away from labelmates Black Dice and Excepter as, um, David Banner or Taylor Swift.The Mississippi native offers here a kind of modernday lounge act approaching his material as part sentimentalist, part jokester and sings in a manner closely reminiscent of indie pop vocalists like Stephin Merritt and Jens Lekman. May shares those gents' strong grasp of melody (his songs are nothing if not hookladen) but unlike them he is a strict genre specialist. For this record, at least (allegedly there's a dance project in the works under his Dent Sweat alter ego), he functions entirely within the boundaries of the schmaltzy barroom pop and suburbanized island music of the 1950s and 60s. (\"Meet Me in the Garden\", all tiki torches and umbrella drinks, might as well be the soundtrack to a backyard cookout thrown by  Mad Men  's Betty Draper.) Combined with his tongueincheek lyrics, it can be a lot of shtick to swallow at once.Since it's inseparable from the album's content, one really has to buy into the persona May is selling in order to enjoy  The Good Feeling Music of Dent May and His Magnificent Ukulele  . That's much easier to do with a fellow like Jonathan Richman (with whom May shares an innocentguy outlook and is often compared to), because his naiveté comes across as genuine and is leavened with humor. But May's attempts at winking cultural criticism often undercut his authenticity. On \"College Town Boy\", he awkwardly pokes fun at the academic set, singing, \"Since graduation day he feels like a fraud, he still regrets he never studied abroad.\" Yikes. Prompting more winces on \"You Can't Force a Dance Party\", May revisits a hipster gettogether gone awry: \"All the way from Brooklyn, Sally came to see me\", he says, but laments spoiling the fun by being \"in the corner reading poetry and prose.\"If you can look past these cringeinducing moments,  The Good Feeling Music  occasionally lives up to its title. One of the record's most charming cuts is \"Oh Paris!\", which finds May doing his best Morrissey atop strumming ukulele (yes, it is omnipresent) and \"shoobe doobe\" backing vocals. Just as pleasant is his reverential take on the Four Preps' 1957 classic \"26 Miles (Catalina)\", a wise cover choice since it fits snugly within his aesthetic. Alongside \"Meet Me in the Garden\", these songs represent a sufficiently enjoyable portion of the record. But to compare May again to one of his peers, there's nothing on par with Lekman's \"Black Cab\" or \"Maple Leaves\" here. At this early point in his career, May's tunes, while positively catchy and at times a lot fun, just don't have that kind of depth. They also lack heart, and that seems harder to forgive. "}