{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13703/homepage_large.fbefdc01.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Here We Go Magic","title":"Here We Go Magic","text":" Luke Temple's first foray into pseudonymical songwriting territory feels as current as did  Snowbeast  and  Hold a Match for a Gasoline World  , his prior two records released under his given name. But where those albums banjocentric and cast with Temple's delicately highpitched voice situated him firmly in the realm of borderlineprecious indie folkies like Sufjan Stevens and Danielson,  Here We Go Magic  works with a different form of alchemy. Fourtracked and supposedly cut in \"a twomonth period of streamofconsciousness recording,\" the album filters Temple's psychedelic muse through a much more muted palette: hazy electronic textures, endlesslyspiraling lyrical loops, occasional forays into extended sections of ambience and noise. The title itself indicates that Here We Go Magic might just be a spurofthemoment lark between more polished works, but its best points suggest we should only encourage Temple to mess around more in his offtime.The oldtimey waltz \"Everything's Big\" closes  Magic  as both a reminder of the first two records and a neat index of the prevailing themes of the current effort: winsome, romantic philosophizing distilled to its very essence, with Temple agape, staring down the immensity of his existence. Opener \"Only Pieces\" has Temple singing a mantra about mortality awareness (\"What's the use in dyin', dyin', if I don't know when?\") in a lofi wash of xylophone, clipclopping percussion, and acoustic guitar. If it sounds like a field recording of a ca. 1971 Paul Simon acid trip, it's as much kismet as intent: Temple's vocals throughout the album are cast with a sense of boyish wonder that suggests Simon, but that's only because it's how a lot of young guys sound when they're confronting the enormity of the Big Questions.The gentle abruptness of \"Only Pieces\"' conclusion it just quietly fades away is indicative of Magic on the whole: we don't get proper endings, but brief interruptions in what seem like transmissions straight from Temple's unconscious. The best bits of Magic are, like \"Pieces\", wispy and repetitive, emerging fully formed, drifting about for a bit, then disappearing. On \"I Just Want to See You Underwater\", Temple blanches his voice to Perry Farrell territory, and cycles through that phrase alone, mantralike, as if it matters not to him that anyone actually hears it. All of \"Tunnelvision\"s woozy vigor is also contained in Temple's undulating vocals, which glide effortlessly between notes over a backing of hiccupping guitars and the comforting sound of drumsticks on a guitar case. The result is a bedroomfolk \"Knives Out\", which is a good thing. \"Fangela\", the best and most fully realized track, is where clipclopping percussion and handclaps share space with glimmering synth flecks, over which Temple's voice offers sympathetic counsel. Only swatches of the lyrics are intelligible (\"Look at me,\" \"Feast your eyes,\" \"All is yours\") but that's part of the enchantment of magic: A fleeting glimpse of something that might have been transcendent, leaving our minds to fill in what we didn't quite see.By definition, interior monologues are selfindulgent, and entrancing as it can be at its peaks, 11 minutes of Magic's brief 38 are taken with that trendiest of current indie tropes, the ambient/noise interstitial. Deerhunter, No Age, and Women have all found different ways to let the hiss take over, but Temple doesn't seem to have the same innate knack for this stuff (maybe I'm being too idealistic, but Temple seems too goodnatured to simply broadcast white noise), and those moments combine to drag the album down a bit. More specifically, those bits suffer in comparison to those other 27 minutes of Magic: a sculpted version of that same disarming din, with a compassionate interpreter telling us what we're seeing. "}