{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1261/homepage_large.3f057434.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Can","title":"Can DVD","text":" I'm sitting here listening to one of Michael Karoli's tracks with his band Soforkontakt from the third disc of Mute's Can DVD set as I write. Karoli, as is consistently revealed throughout the documentary and concert footage, is at once completely in his own world and utterly dependent on those around him to supply a vast, textured canvas upon which he can deposit all the glorious, psychedelic sun rays his guitar can muster. His portion of the disc demonstrates that although Can were no longer an active entity, he was playing with the same abandon, albeit with a slightly vintage grace that would have been too restrictive for his younger self. Sure, Soforkontakt sound suspiciously like a jamband Can, but weren't Can really just a smart, curious, disciplined jam band, anyway? Or, I could attempt the high road and say Can were the archetypical postrock collective. They took the spontaneous energy and immediacy of rock music and replaced it with pure spontaneity. They didn't really need \"riffs,\" hooks or drum solos, because their ideals were found in the individual processes of actively trying to go where no one had gone before, while at the same time being acutely aware that each of their fates were indelibly tied to those of the others. Working as a whole, the music and the trip would take care of themselves. The band certainly knew of rock and took inspiration from it, but were also aware of alternative revolutions: Fluxus, Stockhausen's radical formalism, jazz, free improvisation and a whole world of indigenous folk music. And of course, they had the fortune not to have been from America or the UK, where already robust foundations of modern pop and rock would have very quickly consumed their ambitions. Can were always outside and apart from rock music, yet ultimately dependent on it.Can DVD helps make a lot clear about the German band, while maintaining much of the band's timehonored mystique. Consisting of two DVDs and one audio CD, the set contains an incredible free concert from Cologne in 1972 (originally available on VHS in the outofprint Can Box), multiple documentaries and remixes, and a CD of solo works by Irmin Schmidt, Jaki Liebezeit, Holger Czukay and Karoli. There are a few testimonials from other musicians (including a frankly tossedoff \"film\" by Brian Eno), and even a vaguely surreal sequence of Flea and John Frusciante giving a lifetime achievement award to the band at the 2003 Echo Awards (apparently, the German Grammys). Of course, nobody buys these things because they need to know how great the band is they buy it because they're big fans and they'll buy anything. Luckily, and probably predictably, Can's video retrospective offers a lot more than glazed montages. The first disc begins with the aforementioned Cologne performance, and should be required viewing and listening for any serious Can fan. Collectors are making noise that Mute dropped the ball by not including more live material (or at least different material than was present on the old Can Box video), but having this concert available on DVD can't be considered a bad thing. Director Peter Przygodda captures a band still in transition from raucous motorik mammoths to minimalist soundpainters. The opening scene cuts between closeups of the band, a small child playing drums and other seemingly random images (an elephant, a tower, etc.); later, scenes of the band playing onstage are interspersed with scenes of them performing the same piece in the studio. The direction is a tad on the artsy side, but I think more or less in the spirit of the group. The bassheavy, burning, claustrophobic version of \"Spoon\" that opens the show works wonders on any complaints I have of the filmmaking. Przygodda also compiles the \"Can Notes\" documentary on disc one, which features interviews and footage from the band spanning 1997 (the press tour for the Sacrilege remix project) to 2003. \"Can Notes\" goes a long way towards establishing the various personalities of Can's members, all of which are repeatedly emphasized throughout the remainder of the set. Holger Czukay comes on like the wise, buoyant, eternally fascinated professor; Jaki Liebezeit is a simple, modest craftsman; Karoli, even in middle age, still a child of a different, boundless era; Schmidt surprised me the most in that he was clearly the greatest \"star\" of the band. He enjoys being offhandedly provocative, receiving no end of pleasure relating his tales of becoming \"corrupted\" in New York City in 1966. The second disc contains another fulllength documentary compiled by seasoned music video directors Rudi Dolezal and Hannes Rossacher. Of the most immediate interest are the performance clips of \"Paperhouse\", \"Vernal Equinox\" and their \"disco\" single, \"I Want More\", among others. The performances are taken from German television, and UK programs like Top of the Pops and Bob Harris' Old Grey Whistle Test, and are goldmines not only of Canicana, but of vintage 70s music television direction. The 1971 \"Paperhouse\" performance, wherein the band are backed by a formless yellowgreen background, and with Damo Suzuki in full hillgnome/hippie mode will have Schoolhouse Rock junkies running for cover. I was pleasantly surprised at the energy in the band's later 70s performances, like \"Vernal Equinox\" from 1975. This track didn't do much for me on the Landed album, but here the band blows it down in freakedout discofunk style. Similarly, their 1977 German TV instrumental renditions of \"Moonshake\" and \"Dizzy Dizzy\" blaze by, then with formerTraffic bassist Rosko Gee laying down a slippery fusion lines that eventually prompt Schmidt to get fucking crazy on his keyboard, slapping, elbowing and otherwise terrorizing the keys. All that and a scene where Karoli and Schmidt talk about nose hair! Can has long been more of an occasional gathering than a \"band,\" per se, and their decision to fill this collection's third disc with solo tracks by each of the members is entirely in line with past efforts like 1990's Cannibalism 3 compilation. For the most part, the music is sometimes reminiscent of Can, but more so (and suitably) of the individual forces at work. Schmidt's pieces with Kumo (who provides beats and other electronics) recall much of his solo work with evocative synth patches and a nottoosubtle classical influence, as if Schmidt would be perfectly at home providing spaceage bachelor pad music for Maurice Ravel. Czukay's three live selections with his current collaborator UShe are exercises in \"theories\" of musique concrete put into gothic technopop practice, though not quite as openly embracing dance music as the pair's 2003 release, The New Millennium. Liebezeit's music with Flanger's Burnt Friedman is fittingly the most percussive of the collection even for a group of people who Schmidt describes as judging music \"in the first place\" by its rhythmic qualities. It's a shame Liebezeit's DVD footage isn't nearly as fleshed out as his one piece on disc three, but then, you have to respect a drummer who has refined his craft to the point where he doesn't even need to use his legs anymore. There are a couple of things Can DVD makes clear. Firstly, they were one of the great live bands. If I have one complaint, it would not be that this set duplicates material from another box, but that there just isn't enough of it. Make no mistake: This is a band who have still yet to take advantage of the music in their vaults; I wouldn't be surprised if there are 10 discs' worth of topnotch concert material thus far unheard by anyone other than the band and the audience. Secondly, given the range of personalities, interests, aims and backgrounds that went into Can, it's a minor miracle that they're still known as one of the great, experimental collectives. Furthermore, it becomes obvious over the course of the documentaries that the remaining members are still very much a part of each others' lives. At any moment, if the mood should strike and everyone agrees it is the best decision, it seems they could reform and produce something of as great an impact as on any of their classic records. Or, they could leave behind all of this business tomorrow. Regardless, their music will remain vital for as long as people are fascinated with Whatever Comes Next. "}