{"label":" Original Signal","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13700/homepage_large.a68284eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Longwave","title":"Secrets Are Sinister","text":"  Secrets Are Sinister  is undoubtedly a lame album, but not because it takes the majority of its sonic cues from recent U2. It's not a template that typically scores a lesserknown band a whole lot of style points, but pointing the finger at Longwave's most readily identifiable influence is the easy way out. Especially considering the undeniable potency of this shit done right Bono may not have the solutions to the world's ailments, but his band sure sounds like they believe they do. No,  Secrets Are Sinister  is lame because it solidifies Longwave's position in an identifiable subset of acolytes Ours, Athlete, JJ72, and so forth that invert the presence of Larry Mullen and Bono to present a supposedly superior U2 that values modesty over any sort of \"pop,\" be it populism or popularity. And while that might seem like a potentially interesting idea,  Secrets Are Sinister  comes off bloated  and  boring, the work of a band that hardly believes in its own message.If only Longwave could figure out how to stretch the thrills of \"Sirens in the Deep Sea\" into something that can last longer than the flavor in a wad of Big League Chew. \"Sirens\" isn't a great song or even an original one, but it at least makes an impression. They fire off all their guns at once here Steve Schiltz howls falsetto to the championship banners, a guitar solos with honesttogoodness 32ndnotes, and a twinkly keyboard fills what little empty space is left. So you know that these guys are up to date on their Thatcher rock. Meanwhile, new addition Morgan King plays Kim Deal licks plated with titanium you won't hear a bigger bass sound outside of the Bug's  London   Zoo. While nearly every track on  Secrets  follows that path, a surprisingly bum production job by Peter Katis (the National, Twilight Sad) and David Fridmann renders Longwave merely loud instead of epic. You usually see \"shoegaze\" thrown about, but while the guitar is supposed to envelope like a tidal wave (or maybe their own \"Tidal Wave\"), they sound like firehoses here direct, narrow, and brutal. Even the palmmuted rising action on \"The Devil and the Liar\" overpowers the vocals, and the relentless distortion of \"Shining Hours\" and \"Life Is Wrong\" add some steak and sizzle to the soggy whitebread of Coldplay's \"Yellow\". But even if you liked that song, since when were you all, \"Turn that shit up!\"?So yeah,  Secrets Are Sinister  is a lame album, but not because Longwave never managed to be as cool as any of the early00s New York bands they were wrongly lumped in with. Hell, in the past three years alone, French Kicks have released more enjoyable records than the Strokes and Interpol combined. No, them problem here is more one of direction.  Secrets  has its finger on the pulse of mainstream radio, judging from its oppressive (note how \"oppressive\" almost sounds like \"overly compressed\" when you say it really fast) sonics. But stuck between a tired, nebulously elucidated artistic direction and their own nebulously elucidated commercial aspirations, they just sound a whole lot like the majorlabel alsorans that they actually are. Even if Longwave probably deserve better, it sucks when the suits are right. "}