{"label":" Sterns Africa","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13713/homepage_large.0fe06b99.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Franco & le Tout Puissant OK Jazz","title":"Francophonic, Vol. 1: 1953 - 1980","text":"     This is the story of François Luambo Makiadi, who was born to a Congolese breadbaker in 1938, built a guitar when he was seven, released his first single at 15 (after peers nicknamed him Franco), became one of the most popular bandleaders in his country's history (before Mobutu Sese Seko's dictatorship nicknamed him  le   Grand Maître), fathered 18 kids, and burned a mark so indelible that staterun radio played his records for four days straight after he died in 1989. More than a businessman, lyricist, and guitarist, Franco was a musically innovative bandleader: someone who worked over old traditions, someone who refocused trends through own vision, someone who built genres. In his compositions, AfroCuban  rumba  that always sounded brittle and formulaic to me sounds pliant and flush with possibility. By slowing down a dance rhythm for \"Likambo Ya Nana\", he isn't just writing a slow dance, he's revealing and reengineering where accents in the music fall, he's changing its character and breathing patterns. Other recordings, like \"Kinsiona\", unfold in strange, protracted waltzes filled with the chatter of syncopated percussion styles that sound approachable but almost without precedent. The difference isn't between good and bad music, because there's plenty of expertly played music that follows formula it's between the work of musical  thinkers  and of musical  entertainers  . As far as I can tell, Franco was both. Not that I hush and murmur over  Francophonic  it's not always that poetic. Franco records are, primarily, music for the masses and their asses, even if his arrangements seem to give asses undue philosophical consideration. There's \"AZDA\", which I later found out was used as an ad for a Congolese Volkswagen dealership fortunate for them because it's exhaustingly catchy. There are children's choirs and snatches of conversation that remind me of hiphop skits. He didn't just have a broad ear for great melodies; he had a mind to be sneaky with them, delaying the listener's gratification, stretching tunes out until they wind down somewhere you didn't expect them to. Though I don't know Lingala, I understand, secondhand, that Franco wasn't bad with lyrics, either, punning about how great his band, OK Jazz, was; cataloging the evils lovers do (forcefeeding each other feces, apparently); flashing dialects that upset the government; and singing about AIDS just as people started realizing what it was (but after, as most agree, he started dying from it). OK Jazz were full of brilliant musicians and had a slew of vocalists, so Franco's presence can sometimes feel secondary. He sidestepped the center of attention to assume the subtler, more controlling role of directing where the audience's attention would focus. He occasionally sang, but the guitar was his true voice. On some songs first to memory is \"Tcha Tcha Tcha de mi Amor\" his playing suddenly sputters over the arrangement as if to remind his band who the fucking boss is.  Francophonic  , which spans two discs and the best years of his career, is an essential release, whether you know Franco's music or not, or even whether you know central African music or not. It does the important service of collecting his greatest music released stateside with stuff most of America has never heard. "}