{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13709/homepage_large.7411caea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"U2","title":"No Line on the Horizon","text":" Why U2? How did these four Irishmen become the blueprint for every band with stadium aspirations? The Edge's churchly guitar chime which thrives on the same arena acoustics that can turn otherwise booming bands into mud is certainly a factor. So is their weakness for the big gesture whether it be a giant lemon, heart, or mouth. And Bono's cathartic mix of modern panacea love, God, mass culture gives them a reach to the back row and beyond. But, perhaps above all else, the band's restlessness and willingness to challenge both themselves and their patrons is why the Killers, Kanye West, and Coldplay want to be the next U2 and not the next AC/DC. It's why these four Irishmen still represent the punk spirit decades after they emerged from it.  \"You've got to balance being relevant and commenting on something that's happening today with trying to attain timelessness,\" philosophized the Edge in the early 1990s. The quote sounds like rock star bullshit...until you realize that's pretty much what U2  did  for 20 years. From 1980 to 2000, it was difficult to tell exactly what the next U2 album would sound like. Briefly: They added atmosphere to new wave, looked for God and found hits, exhumed their rock'n'roll heroes, sentup those same heroes while losing their religion, and punctured pop via mutated techno. Each move was more audacious than the last even 1997 kneejerk victim  Pop  saw the worldbeating act taking completely unnecessary musical and financial risks in the name of Warholian postmodern pastiche. They then also managed to surprise on 2000's  All That You Can't Leave Behind  by successfully returning to form after shrugging off the notion for so many years. But 2004's  How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb  and its subsequent tour were troubling.  That record saw four guys famous for dabbing classic rock into all sorts of impressionistic frames (or dismantling it entirely via Village People costumes) uncomfortably grasping for oldfashioned riffs, when they weren't mindlessly feasting on their own past. It was completely predictable (\"City of Blinding Lights\"), canned (\"Vertigo\"), and depressingly Stinglike (\"A Man and a Woman\"). But the group did little to hide the fact that they were basking in their earlycentury comeback's afterglow; in concert, in place of the  ATYCLB  tour's heartshaped runway was a, um, circleshaped runway. Still selfaware enough to sense stagnation, the quartet began to work on what would become  No Line on the Horizon  with new producer Rick Rubin and an imperative to break all those piling U2 trappings once again. As Bono told  The New York Times  this week: \"When you become a comfortable, reliable friend, I'm not sure that's the place for rock'n'roll.\"  Sixteen years ago, U2 worked a snippet of Public Enemy's \"Don't Believe the Hype\" into their technologically prescient Zoo TV tour perhaps fans should heed that bit of sampled advice right about now. Because while this group of slick talkers may have set out to expand their own definition once more, they've ended up with old collaborators Brian Eno and Daniel Lanois along with an album that's neither relevant nor timeless.  First single \"Get on Your Boots\" is a worrisome harbinger to call it a mess would be generous. The song combines subAudioslave riffs with Escape Club's \"Wild Wild West\" and sounds more disjointed than the worst Girl Talk rip off. \"I don't wanna talk about wars between nations not right now!\" claims Bono on the song, before extolling the virtues of tight leather boots. His offthecuff attitude and delivery suggests a cheekiness missing from U2's music for more than a decade, but it's a red herring. While other tracks like \"I'll Go Crazy If I Don't Go Crazy Tonight\" and \"Stand Up Comedy\" feature knowing lines that examine the singer's faults and hypocrisy, the album is heavy on halfassed wordsalad characterizations and the sort of meaningless platitudes Bono used to be so great at (barely) avoiding. And there's a strong theme of resignation running through the record; whereas many classic U2 tracks have come from Bono's struggle with faith and certainty, he seems content to give up agency on songs like \"Moment of Surrender\" and \"Unknown Caller\". \"I've found grace inside a sound,\" he sings on \"Breathe\", and the line seems like a copout from a man who spent so much time struggling with salvation.  Meanwhile, the album's ballyhooed experimentation is either terribly misguided or hidden underneath a wash of shameless U2isms (the threenote ring Edge nicks from \"Walk On\" for \"Unknown Caller\", the \"oh oh oh\" outro from \"Stay\" apparently copied and pasted into \"Moment of Surrender\", etc.). While Eno used to work his unique soundbobbles and ambiance into the fabric of U2 songs, he seems content to offer spacey intros totally disassociated from their accompanying tunes here (see: \"Fez  Being Born\", \"Magnificent\"). And oftentimes the band mistakes risktaking for illfated arrangements and decisions. \"Surrender\" reportedly improvised in one sevenminute take comes across as lazy indulgence, and the title track's hardnosed verse is torpedoed by its deflating fart of a hook. As the goto sonic innovator of the group, the Edge dials in a particularly dispiriting performance throughout; his rare solos usually pack in enough panache to fill stadiums but his bluesy blah of a spotlight on \"Surrender\" would barely satisfy a single earbud.  \"It keeps getting harder. You're playing against yourself and you don't want to lose,\" Adam Clayton told  Q  last month. And he's got a point. After nearly 30 years of chart crashing and sellouts, starting afresh can't be easy. There's only one \"One\". In a way, U2 spoiled their followers by consistently questioning themselves while writing songs that straddled the personal and collective consciousness. But  Horizon  is clearly playing not to lose it's a defensive gesture, and a rather pitiful one at that. "}