{"label":" Woebot","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13727/homepage_large.09e3d40f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Woebot","title":"Automat EP","text":" For five or so years, Matt Ingram's Woebot blog explored his musical obsessions in illuminating (if often contentious) detail. He penned multiparagraph treatises on great old records and current releases alike, illustrated with droolworthy snaps of LP sleeves from his own shelves. He rarely offered MP3 downloads; indeed, he often expressed serious (and reasonable) ethical reservations about doing so. (An oddity then, and almost anathema now.) His writerly voice, alternately cantankerous and selfeffacing, was that of a man trying to make sense of a life lived with music, rather than someone cataloging downloading habits and passing promo MP3 fancies.The blog's retirement was our loss as readers, even if its owner seems to have hung up his keyboard with a deserved sense of accomplishment rather than regret. But Ingram's finally turned to making music, or at least releasing it for public consumption. On his website, synthesizing the promotional announcement and the aesthetic manifesto, Ingram calls for 21stcentury listeners to \"celebrate the integrity of handmade art\" and \"discover the local.\" Born from that backtobasics mindset, these two EPs extoll the pleasures of the idiosyncratic and locallygrown at a time when critics often use the phrase \"nicheoriented\" as a pejorative.  Automat  and  East Central One  are extensions of Ingram's philosophy in both sound and presentation.For starters, they're palmsized 3\" CDs, each adorned with a linocut capturing the sharpened tips of London's gothic skyline, beautifully printed on pleasingly heavy stock. They have that warm DIY feel Ingram valorizes, but they're also stark, a little chilly handcrafts of the microchip era. (None of the sloppy cutandpaste that characterizes the postnoise CDR/cassette swap underground here.) And that organic/digital blurring extends to the eight tracks, four on each CD.Automat  and (especially)  East Central One  map the same coordinates as Woebottheblog: The bassheavy history of modern British dance music, spiked with bits of jazz, postindustrial/punk, academic composition, and other semipopular sounds. Perhaps literally culled from Ingram's omnivorous (but discerning) record collection and built on an oldschool sampler, the tracks often have a pleasingly rough quality, their loops audibly punchedin from warm, worn vinyl. Drums clonk and tumble like dizzily pitcheddown hip hop; sinister drones slither like avant horrormovie muzak in the background; phantom voices and mournful melodic motifs wind their way through the murk. At times, these EPs hearken back to the earliest, most stylistically unpredictable days of triphop and \"homelistening\" techno.Automat's surreal appeal represents the side of Ingram's aesthetic that delights in alternately antic and gloomy grooves that bubble with strange samples. On \"Hit It\", it's James Brown's soulful grunts and a Bambaataaera robot voice that leaven the spookiness. \"Cheese\", a duet for gloomy piano and technoesque synth pings, would be ambient music of a particularly austere kind, if not for the repeated sample of a woman talking about making her own cheese. (Talk about celebrating the \"handmade\" and \"local.\") \"Bear Market Rally\", and its riot of stabbing jazz horns, is both whimsical and faintly unnerving, which is a pretty succinct description of the Woebot sound as a whole.East Central One  is darker and riddled with fewer manic samples. Instead, it's the the drums that sound agitated on \"Chiblains\", which is drum and bass reduced to sketchy, tetchy snares and trilling strings. The lowend that pulses throughout both discs a heaviness that lingers even when the tracks are stripped of obvious basslines would seem to owe a bit to dubstep, as does the overall eerie mood. But instead of dubstep's fractured rhythms and recent taste for chirpy 8bit video game sonics, the swooping strings of \"Salami\" evoke Duke Ellington's languorous ethnofantasias.There are faint hints of current and past genres trends, even audible on both EPs. But the logic behind Ingram's collage is wholly his own. Listening to  ECO  closer \"Flapper\", it's hard to imagine anyone else who'd cut glitching I.D.M. with one bridge that sounds like a distended take on Eric Dolphy's  Out To Lunch, and another that nods in the direction of Mtume's smooth 80s electrosoul. This wild combination its creator's voice clearly audible even if its joints are not is a reminder that the best samplebased music has always possessed Ingram's \"integrity of handmade art.\" "}