{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13721/homepage_large.fbcddbf2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Aleks and the Drummer","title":"May a Lightning Bolt Caress You EP","text":" Note to any female singers looking for help from the production hand of TV on the Radio's David Sitek: you may fare better if you can't actually sing. (Or if you're already famous for something else, I guess.) Despite TVOTR's highandgaining profile, Celebration's excellent Sitekproduced  The Modern Tribe  flew under the radar in 2007, and there's nary a peep about Aleks and the Drummer's 2008 EP,  May A Lightning Bolt Caress You  , outside of the twopiece outfit's native Chicago. A shame, because this band might be the most distinctive of the bunch, pulling equal inspiration from punk and from older traditions. And Sitek's name on the back might actually be his biggest contribution; the band seems to have a pretty clear idea of what its going for here.The percussionplusFarfisa combo may read like kitschy carnivalpunk territory, but the music of Aleks and the Drummer has its roots in something deeper and thrives on opposing forces. The most prominent of those tensions is the urgency of the music and the graceful, almost mannered voice of Aleks Tomaszewska clear and distinct, every syllable exact, soaring and cutting through the clutter while the band stops and starts in fits. \"I Want to Melt His Eyes\" starts out with surfrock drum patter and Bmovie onefinger organ riff. Then the vocals kick in, operatic and melodramatic, muttering the title just once over a musical figure never repeated. It's a fine example of the manic drumming meeting the icy calm of Tomaszewska's voice and organ. Though the melody takes a its share of twists and odd angles, it's still simple and approachable, like a child making up her own nursery rhyme.The twonote shuffle and descending chorus of \"Closer\" is similar in tone, if catchier, featuring an odd breakbeat bridge and a rhythm that clangs mercurially behind the simple and stark melody. \"Co Mi Panie Dasz?\", introduced with maximum vocal warble and a concise burst of psychedelia, is a jittery recast of a traditional Polish song, as Tomaszewska's voice goes from recitalready proper to increasingly desperate. And then on \"Paper Crown and Sugar Shoes\" her breathy vibrato is almost soothing, until the song ascends with the grace and swagger of a 1970s rockradio dinosaur.While the band's palette of sounds is necessarily small, their melodies and inspirations are unpredictable, and they certainly have a few deft tricks when it comes to rhythm. The drums belong in the most rabid surfpunk outfit, and the Farfisa brings a nervy psychedelic edge, but Aleks Tomaszewska's graceful and powerful vocals are the most assertive element in a duo that juxtaposes oldworld melodies with modern postpunk, giving their music a timeless or just outoftime feel. "}