{"label":" Morr","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13722/homepage_large.535f6a86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Surf City","title":"Surf City EP","text":" Once upon a time, New Zealand produced dozens of great guitar bands, from the Clean to the Dead C. They almost seemed to produce more bands than the tiny South Pacific paradise knew what to do with, and certainly more than one might expect a nation outnumbered by its livestock to be able to support. For all we know, the island is still awash in just as many excellent acts but, without a label like the currently lessthanprominent Flying Nun to serve as a filter or point the way, fewer New Zealand bands than ever are making their way to ears outside the Antipodes.Surf City, a Kiwi band formed by Davin Stoddard and Josh Kennedy and formerly known as Kill Surf City (and before that, the Fibs), sound like they spent a good deal of time studying Flying Nun's initial output of awesomeness, especially the Clean. A quartercentury after the release of the \"Tally Ho\" single, the Clean remains New Zealand's indierock standardbearer, and Surf City's ability to channel that group's punky psychedelic pop is impressive. Indeed, 25 years ago, just about any of the songs on Surf City's debut EP could have been \"Tally Ho\", too or, caught up during that initial Flying Nun flurry, at least \"Tally Ho! Part 2\".\"Headin' Inside\" begins with the twang of surf guitar before congealing into a fuzzy guitar rush, with what sounds like a recorder echoing the Clean's rinkydink Casio and the massed vocals and giddy shouts of \"1234!\" hearkening back even further to punk's formative years. The simple but effective melodies of \"Records of a Flagpole Skater\" (this time there's an actual rinkydink keyboard) and \"Dickshaker's Union\" (which recalls the shimmering glory of early Chills) keep the throttle on the wayback machine firmly engaged. Not surprisingly, \"Canned Food\" and \"Mt Kill\" don't break from form. The latter blends perfectly into \"Free the City\", which, if you're not paying attention, could fool you into thinking it's actually the anthemic second half of the same song.Needless to say, it's 2009, not 1981. But Surf City's backwardslooking NZ rock comes off not redundant but absolutely charming. Even at a brisk and easytomiss 20 minutes, the sixsong EP provides pure pop nostalgia but also a reminder of what some may have missed the first time around. Heck, even the disc's brevity feels like a throwback, as does the fact that this set of rousing guitarpop sounds like it could have been recorded in an actual garage. All that's missing is the crackle of vinyl for the illusion to be complete. How far the group can take its secondhand facsimile is another matter entirely, but for the time being, Surf City's pleasure for pleasure's sake approach already has me pining for more. "}