{"label":" Treader","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13733/homepage_large.325eda42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"J Spaceman and Matthew Shipp","title":"SpaceShipp","text":" From the first recordings of Spacemen 3 in 1984 to last year's sixth Spiritualized album, Jason Pierce known sporadically during the last quarter century as J Spaceman has never seemed settled. On his ragged teenage recordings, Pierce pitted walking with Jesus against dropping some drugs and howled the fixingtodie blues when he wasn't moaning resignation to his depressed existence. One year after Spacemen 3 released their benchmark cosmic rock album,  The Perfect Prescription  , the band busied itself with turning a London arts center into a recreation of La Monte Young's  Dream House  , issuing a 90minute drone that caused according to one review mixed indignation and awe. Similarly, Spiritualized vacillated between the 100plus musicians who contributed to  Let It Come Down  and the smaller ensembles that finished Pierce's subsequent records. Sessions with jazz improvisers, orchestrations with massive choirs, electric oblivion with a rock trio: Instability and its inspiration have linked the Spaceman's discography from the start.So Pierce's dismissal of \"Soul on Fire\" the glorious popgospel triumph at the top of last year's  Songs in A&E  , the band's first LP since 2003 shouldn't have surprised anyone. \"I didn't want that on the album,\" Pierce told me last June in a Pitchfork interview. \"I'm constantly fighting with this thing inside of me that says I should be sitting in a room with Matthew Shipp, or I should have Han Bennink on drums, or this song should be playing for the next 20 minutes in my head, not a silly little pop song.\" Just two years earlier, Pierce  was  sitting in a room with experimental pianist Shipp, recording  SpaceShipp  , their first release as a duo but their third album as collaborators. Spaceman and Shipp worked together on  Amassed  , the 2000 record from collaborationprone, outbound electronicists Spring Heel Jack. They later toured England with a larger Spring Heel Jack ensemble that included bassist William Parker and the mischievous Bennink.   SpaceShipp  divides into two tracks, a 41minute hypnotic drone called \"Inner\" and an 11minute pointillist improvisation called \"Outer\". The pieces work as stylistic but not dramatic foils; the second track isn't an attempt to resolve the first. Consistent with the careers of Spaceman and the prolific Shipp, who's made dozens of records this decade with artists ranging from Susie Ibarra to ElP, it represents a chance to try something different.As La Monte Young suggested for his own Dream Music, \"Inner\" simply appears, as if Shipp opens the lid on a roomfilling Harmonium hum that was waiting latently in the corner. A scrim of electric guitar noise floats just at the surface, and, for the next 40 minutes, they drift into each other like two slow streams. Young suggested that his own music was eternal, and \"Inner\" inherits that philosophy. Every time Spaceman's guitar growls a bit or Shipp shifts to the next dissonant note, the counterpart adjusts, pushing the track forward while keeping the sound itself fluid. \"Outer\" works through similar interplay. Shipp spells out little melodies, sometimes in short, rapid bursts, sometimes in slow, wellspaced trickles. Spaceman lets his guitar drift through whorls of feedback, breaking the still with angry, snarling moments. \"Outer\" grows quiet but discordant and restless, fading out just as \"Inner\" faded in. SpaceShipp  could barely have less in common with  Guitar Loops  , Spaceman's 2006 album for Treader, recorded just three days before he was admitted into a London hospital and diagnosed with the case of double pneumonia that nearly killed him. Loops was impatient and busy, digging through and discarding ideas like an unsatisfied antiques collector at a Sunday market. But patience unites  SpaceShipp  's dual tracks, recorded almost exactly a year after Spaceman was released from the hospital as he attempted to resume work on  Songs in A&E.  While it's opportunistic to read into the change in Pierce's pacing and his health,  SpaceShipp  seems neither stunted nor stretched. It sounds like a wellpaced, comfortable exercise between two experimenters risking nothing but a bit of trust in one another, their notes and effects pulling and pushing against the other's until things smear or stumble into some vast, unseen and unexpected horizon. "}