{"label":" Ghost Box","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13738/homepage_large.fe68ac47.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ritual and Education","text":" The London label Ghost Box has released bookish, odd psychedelia for nearly five years now long enough that they deserve a compilation like  Ritual and Education  to collect the cream of it. It's taut, sensitively sequenced, and priced cheap about $7.50as a downloadonly release; perfect for newcomers, dabblers, and people too cheap to order records from the UK.Ghost Box's music is psychedelic because it takes musical forms only monks have escaped ad jingles, healthclass film soundtracks and makes them sound imbalanced, smeared, disjointed. Vocal samples fried by vinyl popping drift across backdrops of 1970ssounding synthesizers; rhythms stutter in and out of patterns; perfectly nice moments are always ruined. Ritual and Education's rightest moments, then, are quietly wrong. The softfocus soul of the Advisory Circle's \"Sundial\" or \"Mogadon Coffee Morning\" bypasses sex for nausea; the samplebased confetti of the Focus Group's \"Hey Let Loose Your Love\" sounds like the work of fullbore studio hacks who can't hear each other; and Belbury Poly makes muzak, an inherently anonymous style, sound eerily personal. I mostly listen at night because it upsets company.When dealing with music as transportive as Ghost Box's, a reliable measure of when it goes bad is when you're acutely aware of it.  From an Ancient Star, Jim Jupp's latest as Belbury Poly, has moments like that where the spell of the music not only lifts, but dissolves. Jupp makes music in a narrow niche, so at best the fakereggae of \"A Great Day Out\" or the analretentive court music of \"Adventure in a Miniature Landscape\" he exercises his strengths and testrides a few new genres. At worst, he imitates novelty synthesizer music so expertly that it's indistinguishable from the real, harmless, ignorable thing.His last two albums,  The Willows  and  The Owl's Map, were great.  From an Ancient Star  feels more concerned with form than vibes with education over ritual. Ghost Box is a label pulling a specific thread of musical history, but that's not what makes them interesting; what makes them interesting is their ability to reanimate and manipulate that history where less imaginative artists might slave to it.The composer David Behrman once said, \"The world is filled with busy, noisy music and noise in general and I'd rather contribute to the quieter end of the spectrum.\" It's a quote I've always loved because it reminds me that experimental, psychedelic records don't have to announce themselves like assholes. They can feel weird without being abrasive, and hushed without being passive or overly beautiful. They can feel like  Ritual and Education  does like the work of nerds and hermits, not provocateurs and stoners.In an age when most listeners probably have no idea what label their favorite new record came out on, Ghost Box has a unified, unmistakable vision. Each release appears as part of a whole. Their covers look the same. The liner notes are in the same style. Ghost Box isn't a label; it's a tiny planet. They print  newsletters. And that's wonderful. Wave to them. "}