{"label":" Stax","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/12498/homepage_large.f6f9a86d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Isaac Hayes","title":"Black Moses","text":" During my first years out of college, I hung out every week at a friend's apartment in Midtown Memphis. Like most college grads' first apartments, the place was sparsely furnished and barely decorated an old couch, a few Salvation Army chairs, a desk lined with neurobiology textbooks. There was one effort at wall art, the LP cover of Isaac Hayes'    Black Moses    , which folded out into a cross with the singer clad in a Biblical caftan and sunglasses holding out his hands not in a crucifixion, but in blessing. The actual LPs stayed in their paper sleeves next to his TV, but from that place of honor on the wall, the apostle of funk one of Memphis' patron saints looked down upon us benevolently through many parties and late nights. It became so totemistic to this circle of friends that the music and the artwork are completely inseparable in my mind.I'm happy to report that Stax's new reissue of  Black Moses  , unlike the initial CD release in 1990, retains that original foldout packaging. It may be glossy instead of the matte finish I remember, and it may be CDsized instead of the full LP measurements, but it still folds out into a cross, smaller but still somehow holy. In this case, the packaging for this album remains particularly important, not because of my personal attachment to it nor as a reminder that pop's material culture is slowly disintegrating in the digital age.  Black Moses  was at that point one of the most elaborate LP packages issued for a black artist and as such represented a show of faith that Hayes, fresh off the unprecedented success of the  Shaft  soundtrack in 1971, could command sales to rival those of his white contemporaries. And like that foldout cross, it was a massively ambitious statement album, a collection of covers and originals that documented the collapse of Hayes' marriage. It was an enormous success, lodging at #1 on the black charts for seven long weeks.The album title was not simply a glorifying nickname, but a sort of prophecy. Hayes led his people not to a promised land (racial relations in America during the 1970s were so complex and heated as to make any such place almost impossible to visualize) but to a freer musical sensibility that emphasized synthesis: rock, funk, disco, and new strains of soul music marked by elaborate arrangements and lengthy running times.  Black Moses  is brashly, lushly, and lovingly orchestrated, each track piled high with soundtrack strings, insistent horns, tender flutes, sultry backup singers, and of course lots of wakkachikka guitars, a Hayes signature.As far out as he got, Hayes always stayed rooted in pop music. Most of these songs are covers: Kris Kristofferson's \"For the Good Times\" a moody, pleading reminiscence; BacharachDavid's \"I'll Never Fall in Love Again\" a slow burn; the Jackson 5's \"Never Can Say Goodbye\" a dramatic testimony; Little Johnny Taylor's \"PartTime Love\" a breathless groove; the Motown hit \"Never Gonna Give You Up\" a luscious jam. \"Good Love\", the lone Hayes original here, may be a minor horndog proposition, but in this context it sounds like a knowing smirk: \"We interrupt this broadcast for a special news bulletin,\" he intones in the intro. \"Let all the young women crowd around before the news begins.\"Some of the joy of listening to  Black Moses  is hearing Hayes explode these songs from the inside, unpacking their groove potential yet leaving them recognizable. \"(They Long to Be) Close to You\" had already been a hit for the Carpenters and has since become a key exemplar of 70s pop cheese, but Hayes anchors it to a laidback drumbeat, adds the Hot Buttered & Soul singers in the background, and unfolds it into a nineminute jam. It's startling to hear him sing the opening lines \"Why do birds suddenly appear, every time you are near?\" in his supremely honeyed bass, but he gives the song a straight reading. At the time some critics derided these songs as aimless and selfglorifying, and Hayes' ornate orchestrations still carry a whiff of kitsch, but  Black Moses  remains unapologetic, often moving, and always entertaining.Stax is also reissuing Hayes' 1976 album,  Disco Freak (Juicy Fruit)  , accompanied by a similarly overthetop packaging. The cover shows him shirtless in a pool blowing a kiss to the camera while surrounded by a bevy of fruitdraped beauties. Open the gatefold to see the women's feet with panties 'round their ankles. That packaging, likewise, is important: It may be the most interesting aspect of this album, which reveals Hayes' weaknesses just as surely as  Black Moses  reveals his considerable strengths. It begins with three full minutes of barely intelligible chatter, as Hayes and friends chat up a woman in the studio. By the time the clamor bleeds into the title track, you may have already tuned it out. Fortunately, \"Disco Freak\" saves it by immediately establishing an elastic groove complete with gasping guitar licks, throbbing basslines, and a bridge that goes \"Juicy Fruit sure is cute in her sexy jumpsuit.\"This is Hayes in full disco mode, as the title makes clear, yet he never sounds quite as comfortable here as he does with the expansive hybrid soul covers of  Black Moses  . Hayes, who had written many of Stax's biggest hits, penned all of these songs himself, but here the BacharachDavid influence becomes clear and clearly curbs his audacity. The choruses of \"The Storm Is Over\" and \"Lady of the Night\" sound too smoothly polished to be very uplifting or seductive (the latter is particularly ridiculous), and upbeat numbers like \"Music to Make Love By\" and \"Thank You Love\" slip too easily from horny funk into a sort of lite jazz, without the urgency or drama of his best work. Hayes sounds comical, a humorless, onedimensional ladies' man rather than the wounded romantic of  Black Moses.  This is not where he promised to lead us. "}