{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13742/homepage_large.11e3d995.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Lars Horntveth","title":"Kaleidoscopic","text":"    Postrock is stuffed with overrated albums, so it's extraexciting to find an underrated one, like Jaga Jazzist's  What We Must  . Its flirtation with smooth jazz is the probable sticking point. Fey reed instruments are laden with uncool associations it's all good to graft some severe classical strings to your rock music, but heads turn when you start fucking with Kenny G. Even their name downplays the fact that they're a rock band (understandably \"Jaga Rockist\" is problematic). It's too bad, because  What We Must  brims with indelible melodies set in muscular rhythms: the lively, interlocking motifs so much postrock forsakes for morose blears. If Jaga Jazzist excels at weaving together striking set pieces,  Kaleidoscopic  insinuates that Lars Horntveth is the band's driving force. In this 37minute composition, his sprightly themes seem like glass cases in a museum, both selfcontained and part of a greater narrative. At the beginning of the piece, Horntveth returns to a cunning device used on Jaga songs like \"All I Know is Tonight\": By setting an eerie lead melody against a quiet shimmer, he makes it contort gracefully in an isolated field. Then come the piles of gushy strings (the orchestra contains 34 string players), the glinting harps, the sly pizzicato subrhythms, the unfurling brass, and coiled woodwinds. On the whole, it suggests Prokofiev's  Peter and the Wolf  minus the Boris Karloff narration: jaunty, temperate, and willfully naïve. It improves upon Horntveth's solo debut,  Pooka, by desegregating his instrumentals, making them talk to each other.  Kaleidoscopic  occupies the ambiguous region between classical and pop/indie the same one occupied by Horntveth's stated influences, including Joanna Newsom, Robert Wyatt, Stereolab, and JeanClaude Vannier. On one hand, it was recorded in a small church in Riga with 41 members of the Latvian National Orchestra (Horntveth himself plays piano, clarinet, and horns) and conducted by Terje Mikkelsen of the St. Petersburg Philharmonic and the Moscow Radio Orchestra. On the other, it isn't grounded in any cultural metanarrative or musicological doctrine. Instead, it takes up that indieest of subjects: his emotions. Horntveth has said that  Kaleidoscopic  sought to document his evolving state of mind, which sounds like a fancy way of saying that he wrote whatever he felt like writing and then knitted it together. In the same year when Arvo Pärt addresses himself to the book of John (on his new release,  In Principio), Horntveth takes up the book of Lars. The self is the new culture. This explains the album's roundabout, intuitive progression, and gives one the impression that Horntveth is a pretty sanguine guy. Only the mildly menacing piano of the middle section disturbs the beatific mood, which is rather refreshing at a time when menace's currency seems drastically inflated. For the most part, the album wavers between pensive happiness and outright ecstasy a tingly shine constantly attends it, like the air just above a glass of something highly carbonated. If this makes  Kaleidoscopic  sound a bit lightweight, that's because it is a charming, unapologetically frothy bagatelle, more concerned with spontaneous inspiration than formal rigor. But I had the pleasure of seeing its premiere performance   at Oslo's Øya Festival last summer and can attest that the skill of the players belies the lack of ambition Horntveth's vague thematic content might imply. In fact, this ambiguity this tinge of slackness and selfobsession might make it the consummate indiesymphony: navelgazing, capricious, influenceheavy, and broadly accessible. "}