{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13748/homepage_large.3fadf6c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Circlesquare","title":"Songs About Dancing and Drugs","text":" The title of Circlesquare's second fulllength is direct and accurate, but it's also something of an understatement. Dancing and drugs are indeed mentioned in nearly every track, but, as subject matter for pop songs, they're welltrod territory. What makes the record interesting is the way Circlesquare mastermind Jeremy Shaw uses dancing and drugs as a starting point for exploring his larger themes, i.e., the constant mutation and evolution of subcultures, and the rapid acceleration of science and technology. In Shaw's work, which extends from his music to his parallel career in fine art, dancing and drugs are salvations in and of themselves, and desperately needed coping mechanisms in a fastmoving culture that can leave us feeling disconnected and disoriented. If one can assume a consistent narrative voice on the album, the protagonist of  Songs About Dancing and Drugs  is a man who feels as though culture and time itself is out of synch with his reality, and that celebration and narcotics have become his way of either finding his footing within the moment, or slipping outside of it.The sound of the record reflects its lyrics' sense of temporal dislocation. Even the most danceable numbers have a sluggish pace and somnolent tone, and lighter compositions, such as the drifting, semiacoustic \"Timely\", suggest a state of permanent jet lag. Shaw's most effective tracks present epic, sweeping songs on a miniature scale, expressing the grandiose sentimentality of U2 or Arcade Fire without either's bombast, and with a far greater sense of implied intimacy. \"Stop Taking (So Many)\" is essentially an arenarock ballad turned insideout. The beat is rendered as a simple pulse, a handful of plaintive piano notes carry most of the piece's emotional weight, and the strum and noise of guitars are replaced with abstracted electronic hums, whirs, and beeps. \"Hey You Guys\", the opening track, is slightly more traditional in its gradual build towards catharsis, but even its most dramatic moments are underplayed, and its words are sung in a cool, aloof voice that recalls Depeche Mode's Dave Gahan at his most sedate. In these songs, Circlesquare achieve a rare, truly successful synthesis of rock dynamics and the aesthetics of minimalist electronica. Whereas most attempts to bridge the gap between these styles yield gardenvariety rock songs in bleepbeep drag or vice versa, Shaw demonstrates a fluency in both genres that leaves his hybrid music feeling organic instead of dilletantish. He is somewhat less successful when he moves away from that stylistic intersection, resulting in the interminable, drowsy space folk of \"Music For Satellites\", or the appealing yet slightly too familiar slowmotion disco groove of \"Dancers\".Despite the fact that  Songs About Dancing and Drugs  is an exceptionally slow and languorous set of songs, Shaw's arrangements are consistently dynamic, albeit in rather subtle ways. Even the most ambient compositions on the record continuously add new rhythmic hooks and textures, and just when a song seems to drift out into deep space, he will toss in a surprising new element, as with the lonely trumpet solo that turns up at the end of \"Bombs Away, Away\". This approach is especially apparent in 13minute finale \"All Live But the Ending\", which cycles through all of the album's primary moods and textures while essentially summarizing its lyrical content.Though everything that precedes \"All Live But the Ending\" is more or less an expression of elliptical ambivalence, Shaw lets the song build to a genuine emotional climax, complete with a digitally warped horn fanfare that shifts into a quiet, sober resolution in which he offers the album's one moment of total certainty in the form of a simple motto: \"In the end, after all, all that anybody really needs is art and music.\" That line can be taken as the moral of the album, but even more to the point is that in its final seconds, after repeating his maxim a few times as if to emphatically underline it, Shaw invites the listener one last time to \"come along.\" Ultimately, the album is about the value of participating in culture through the communal aspects of art and music, which is sort of ironic given that this is a record best suited to being heard alone, with a good set of headphones. "}