{"label":" Dust-to-Digital","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13751/homepage_large.61fe42ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Art of Field Recording, Vol. 2","text":" In November 2007, Atlanta's DusttoDigital Records released  The Art of Field Recording, Vol. 1  , a sweeping, 4xCD collection of field recordings assembled by the folklorist and visual artist Art Rosenbaum. Rosenbaum's considerable personal collection (which spans a halfcentury, contains thousands of hours of tape, and is supplemented by Rosenbaum's own photographs, paintings, and drawings) demanded more than just four discs; DusttoDigital plotted a second volume in response.  Vol. 2  follows the same basic organizing principle as its predecessor: The four discs are arranged by theme (Survey, Religious, Accompanied Songs and Ballads, Unaccompanied Songs and Ballads), and are comprised exclusively of field recordings, provoked and captured in living rooms, churches, front porches, backyards, graveyards, and parlors across the Southeast, Midwest, and Canada.Without discounting the participants' musicianship, the real pleasure of these boxes is in the peripheral noise, the clinks, rustles, guffaws, giggles, and snorts of ordinary life, the selfcomposed and selfdelivered introductions, the softspoken folklorist nudging from the corner that's the true and precious miracle of field recording. We now know, for example, that there exists no more sublime a preface to \"Steamboat Bill\" than Iowan Jack Bean in his deep, gnarly, slightlytooloud voice barking \"My name is Jack Bean, I live in Wapello, I'm 70 years old, and I'm a halfassed musician. Or was.\" This is how folk music functions; this is what it means. It is as real as anything.The scope of Rosenbaum's work makes it difficult to talk about these volumes in general terms; although this is all \"folk music,\" in the broadest, most earnest sense of the word (see Louis Armstrong: \"All music is folk music. I ain't never heard no horse sing a song\"), it's also a gloriously diverse package of styles and eras. (Rosenbaum himself addresses the nomenclature issues in his sharp and graceful introductory essay.) Maybe what's most remarkable is how well  Vol. 2  actualizes the (shriveling?) notion of acoustic blues, folk, and gospel music as a malleable oral tradition (\"The deep river of song,\" as Alan Lomax put it), destined for splicing and rearranging here, over and over, bits and pieces of traditional songs emerge and recede, providing both context and ornament. Even though charting the origins of these fragments is pretty much impossible (and entirely beside the point), it does make the controversy over samples and mashups feel heavily foreshadowed, if not kind of moot.Although it's certainly worth consuming whole  give yourself a full, glorious Sunday on the couch there are a few unmissable highlights: Otha Cooper and Imogene Riggens' a cappella rendition of \"There's a Man Going Around Taking Names\" (recorded in Athens, Georgia in March 1981) is barely 90 seconds long, but the sadness and seriousness in their voices lingers for weeks, maybe longer. Rev. Willie Mae Eberhart and Sister Fleeta Mitchell (who also appear on  Vol. 1  , accompanied here by Eddie Ruth Pringle) offer up a prickly version of \"A Charge to Keep I Have\" (according to Rosenbaum's notes, the melody is moaned so the Devil can't hear it), while Mary Lomax, another star from  Vol. 1  , sings \"Billy Staffer\" with unparalleled aplomb \"The way my paw used to sing it,\" she explains. Helen McDuffie's \"Talking Blues\" is a textbook example of the kinds of talking blues that inspired Woody Guthrie and later Bob Dylan; Mabel Cawthorne's \"Going Up the Country (Some Kind of Blues)\" features some of the richest (if stubbornly imperfect) pianoplaying around, and her vocals unselfconscious, raw, squealing, cracked are genuinely riveting.It doesn't require a crack sociologist to understand how America's oral traditions are changing (most of the performers Rosenbaum captures here are of advanced age, and come from relatively rural climes), but there's still something comforting about the notion of a song as a family heirloom (it can never be lost in a fire), and Rosenbaum's work will make you yearn for childhood lullabies, for precious as it sounds the songs that you keep in your heart. "}