{"label":" Cuneiform","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13764/homepage_large.20963f48.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Shawn Bosler","artist":"Cheer-Accident","title":"Fear Draws Misfortune","text":" CheerAccident are the quintessential Chicago postrock band that, sadly, you may have never heard of. Too bad. They've been exploring headscratching, creatively fuckedup time signatures and sideways guitar shenanigans for 20 years now, leaving a pronounced influence on the Windy City's artrock scene. Their playful musical approach is a ripe aesthetic of absurdist humor: Live shows are infamously strange and sometimes audienceprovoking, featuring an assortment of Fluxus mindfuckery.Over the years, band leader/multiinstrumentalist Thymme (pronounced \"Tim\") Jones has grown his band's adventurous sound from schizoid metallic postrock (in the vein of scene brethren Rapeman, Shorty, or Don Caballero) to a higherbrow variety of avantrock that covers ground as diverse as falsetto vocal vignettes, orchestral dissonant horn lines, Van Dyke Parksian rainyday pop, cubist piano compositions, ambient cinematic excursions, noise collages, freeform freakouts, and every kind of noodley and angular guitar manifestation possible. Fittingly Jones has been involved with several side projects with Jim O'Rourke (BriceGlase, Yona Kit).If 1997's  Enduring the American Dream  served as Cheer's first ambitious (and quite successful) synthesis of postrock, krautrock, orchestral pop, and minimalist classical influences, their new  Fear Draws Misfortune  is the fuller realization of those initial experiments. Except that  Fear  is their unequivocal prog with a capital \"P\" record. Perhaps Thymme himself could better introduce the album: \"I'm talking time signatures, classical music references, I'm talking lots of keyboards... I'm talking five keyboards at once, I make Rick Wakeman look humble.\" That encapsulation is a quote from a skit several year's back from Jones' longrunning cable access show  \"Cool Clown Ground\"  where he's been known to spend an entire 30minute episode playing Scrabble with his friends, shaking maracas, or sitting around looking into the camera making sure that nothing much ever happens. Thankfully, CheerAccident's music is the antithesis, being in constant melodic and dynamic motion.I'm not sure how the writing process goes down. But considering how integral the fluid polyrhythmic krautrockfawning drums are, as well as the meandering hornlines and the crystalline, almost Jon Andersonlike lead vocals all handled by mathlete multiinstrumentalist Jones a comparison to French drummer/prog god, Christian Vander's Magma, is fitting. Much like Magma,  Fear's cornucopia of interweaving keyboard lines and Frippian sixstring squiggles frequently ascend into cosmicchoral singing. When you mix the juiciest sounding bits from abacusrockers like This Heat, Henry Cow, Magma, King Crimson, and Yes which this CD most definitely does you get a progrock geek's wet dream. A key influence is the guest appearance of Carla Kihlstedt of Sleepytime Gorilla Museum that adds a nice feminine flourish, frequently evoking her band's evershifting operatic creepiness. "}