{"label":" eMusic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13775/homepage_large.9299171e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Selected + Collected: An eMusic Selects Compilation","text":" It's hard to expect much from a compilation album. The ratio of great songs to filler is usually pretty low. Rarely do the tracks have anything to do with one another, save their performers' political affiliations. And the songs rarely give context to one another by being collected together. But because they are usually thrown together to raise money for a charity or salute a musical hero, it feels meanspirited to critique them.  Selected + Collected  , however, doesn't have that problem or those teflon advantages. It's a business venture, a collection of eMusic Selects acts favorite unsigned or rising bands that the online retailer features once a month designed to celebrate the program's first anniversary and lend the assembled acts a little bit of exposure. And as such, being brutal seems fair. Fortunately (or unfortunately, if you're the sort who loves to read scathing reviews), that isn't necessary; the album is a charming surprise. (Full disclosure: eMusic is one of our retail partners.) Selected + Collected  proves eMusic editors deserve a pat on their backs for their astute curatorial efforts. Case in point: San Francisco's Girls, a breakout band who haven't even released an album. Rarely does a song earn a sevenminute run time. And it's even more rare when that song has just a handful of repeated lyrics. But Girls' \"Hellhole Ratrace\" (which snuck in at number 100 on Pitchfork's list of the best tracks of 2008) stokes the impatience for the band's debut with its layers of dreamy fuzz, gooey backing vocals, and strummy acoustic guitar that's punctuated by echoing sleigh bells and handclaps. Joining the hardtoGoogle band (and 14 others) on this comp are recent Best New Music recipients the Pains of Being Pure At Heart. For those who have already worn out the grooves on their recent fulllength and are jonesing for new songs, there's \"Kurt Cobain's Cardigan\", which showcases the exuberant yet nostalgic lofi pop brilliance that made their album one of the first mustbuys of 2009. Not all the tracks assembled here are new or previously unavailable, but with so many of the collection's artists releasing albums either on their own or through tiny independent labels without widespread distribution, they may all seem new to you. Rademacher's standout \"If U Got Some Magic\", for example, is taken from the band's 2007 fulllength debut,  Stunts  , but its appearance here will have you kicking yourself for ignoring the smart, sprawling piano anthem for more than a year now.Mostly  Selected + Collected  is a rock and pop collection, but its two forays into other genres are so good that you'll wish there were more. \"Buttermilk\" the collection's lone hiphop contribution is a welcome burst of rhythm, falling victim neither to groovy backpacker clichés nor toughguy braggadocio. The funky, femalesung hook that the track is built on adds a soulful, vintage dimension to Queens MC Homeboy Sandman's melodic flow and sparse arrangement. And despite the glaring throatclearing that mars Victoire's dreamy fantasia \"A Door into the Dark\" halfway through, it is a pleasingly accessible entrée into the world of modern pseudoclassical music (or perhaps it's just a particularly baroque piece of instrumental chamber pop).There's a lot more to like on this overstuffed album, too. Man/Miracle's \"Pushing and Shoving\" sounds like David Byrne sitting in with the messy, insistent rhythm section of the Velvet Underground while playing \"Heroin\". She Keeps Bees' \"Bow\", with its simple, fierce guitar chug, economical drumming, and abrupt ending, sounds like the Pretenders doing rockabilly. My Teenage Stride's \"Weirder Nightmare\" wraps hooky, hornstudded 1960s pop in layers of very modernsounding feedback. And Glasser's \"Apply\" marries tribal percussion to an otherworldly synthesized drone and a strikingly clear female vocal, which easily maneuvers from jazzy trilling to guttural squeaks, grunts, and Yoko Onolike ululations.There are few misses, and even those are worth a listen. Rick Froberg, of Drive Like Jehu and Hot Snakes fame, is easily this collection's biggest \"star,\" but as an introduction to his new band Obits, \"Light Sweet Crude\" isn't the best first impression. Coming on like a sexyvoiced Stones fan hellbent on a sloppy garage makeover, Obits get the snarled, gritty vocals right, but their repetitive, strangely spare music lacks the requisite swagger. And while it is definitely enough to pique listeners' curiosity for the band's forthcoming Sub Pop debut, it doesn't stand out in such elevated company. That is nitpicky criticism, though, of an album that is so uniformly enjoyable and surprisingly fillerfree. One can only hope that, like the similar series curated by UK record shop Rough Trade, the bigwigs at eMusic make  Selected + Collected  an annual celebration. "}