{"label":" Rune Grammofon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13774/homepage_large.e6633b12.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Money Will Ruin Everything: The Second Edition","text":" Rune Grammofon's labelhead, Rune Kristoffersen, has business on his mind: It's right in the title of this comp, a followup to the first 2xCD + book collection of the same name.  Volume 1  marked his label's fifth anniversary, and this one lands just after the 10th. The lengthy and unedited interviews with Kim Hiorthøy included in each book capture Kristoffersen's struggle, not so much to maintain cash flow, as to deal with a product that seems anachronistic. Kristoffersen, who hates compression, doesn't pay much attention to his download business, and isn't so sure how this MySpace thing works, admits that he's a dinosaur.His vision of a record label entails releasing strong, wellpackaged albums and hoping people listen to them, and he has a pretty good roster to fulfill that vision. But a crappy CD costs the same $1320 bucks as a CD by Supersilent, and so when it comes time to offer the fans something grander, Kristoffersen turns out a book like this one a forthefans collectible, featuring gorgeous pages of cover and sketch art, photo portraits of the artists, and a pair of CDs that collect album tracks and a few unreleased and live cuts. It's smaller than a coffee table book, unlike say, European art label ECM's  Sleeves of Desire  , a similar selfcelebration that now fetches hundreds of bucks on eBay. But at $65, it's strictly a way for collectors to satisfy their passion for the label.No one will buy this just for the music, but that's not to say it isn't a good listen. In 10 years, the label hasn't moved far from its roots: Atmospheric electronica and refined European improvisation still prevail. Kristoffersen sought to stretch the profile with rock/pop acts like Susanna and the Magical Orchestra, and Shining. But here, they both sound more like ecletic art bands. Shining's cover of King Crimson's \"21st Century Schizoid Man\" is crisp and zany, and even the ferocious axework comes with a wink. On her two cuts, Susanna's gorgeous voice and ghostly heartbreak are unmoored from any realworld context. She's also gains much from Helge Sten, the producer whose grave sound helped shape much of the label's catalog.Sten's also a member and the producer of Supersilent, the electroacoustic quartet that gave the label its first album and remains its strongest act. Supersilent contributes \"C6.1\", which sounds like an outtake from their last LP,  8  ; strange and engrossing, it also tends to meander. The quartet's members show up on several other cuts, including the opening \"Mono Hum\" by Humcrush, a stately and sentimental improvisation by the duo of Supersilent keyboardist Ståle Storløkken and Food's Thomas Strønen. The sublimely soothing keyboards remind me how often brainy, European art music seems tailormade to charm little kids; see also Phonophani's toylike electronic piece \"The Atlantic\". But Arve Henriksen, in collaboration with Jan Bang, chips in the even mellower \"No Horizon\", a wisp of a world ambient piece that gives fleeting glances at his falsetto vox and delicate trumpet tone.But before you assume that frowning concentration is the label's signature, acts like Box shred into view: a new supergroup that includes Storløkken, Trevor Dunn, and Scorch Trio guitarist Raoul Björkenheim, they contribute a metalloid freakout that pairs a diligent guitar riff with deep shocks of keyboards. The Scorch Trio also appears here, with \"Hys\", a power trio jam that smokes but never burns. And Jono El Grande changes things up completely for exactly one track: \"Eva's Horse Dance,\" an avant circus riot featuring garbled vocals, squawking soprano sax, and a whomping beat. The 1960sslash70s never died but they don't always sound this lively.Though Jono's been with the label a while, he's one of the few surprises on the set. Little new blood has appeared on the roster since the last  Money Will Ruin Everything  five years ago; outliers like Jono El Grande or MoHa! (not featured here) don't exactly refresh a label that started with folks like Supersilent, Maja Ratkje, and Arne Nordheim. Growth and riches were never on Kristoffersen's agenda he's not kidding about the album title but he also refrains from making a grand artistic statement, or shaping (or pruning) the nebulous field of improvised electronic art music. But the book's ultimate point is clear: Rune Grammofon remains a primarily Norwegian, primarily excellent label built entirely on the tastes of its owner. And his is a brand we can still count on. "}