{"label":" Fire","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13772/homepage_large.2fb4ba89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Production","title":"The Invisible Lodger","text":" UK electronic duo Various Production released their debut album, 2006's  The World is Gone, at the best possible moment. Dubstep the brooding, bassheavy offshoot of UK garage had been enjoying a brief burst of popularity with the international record nerd community. Early Various singles like \"Hater\" swiped dubstep's instantly recognizable lowend wobble and syncopated snares, while adding a few moderately novel touches: Perhaps only in a genre glutted with minimalist electronic instrumentals could the simple addition of acoustic instruments and triphop vocals lead to instant online buzz.And that buzz only grew louder thanks to Various' packaging decisions. Various released its early singles on indiefriendly 7\" vinyl, dressing them up with decadent, handdrawn covers that featured little in the way of identifying information about the men (or women) responsible for the music. This oldschool media blackout was a red flag to noveltystarved critics used to access to everything from bathroom habits to the location of birthmarks. Various was all set to cement its rep as the sortadubstep act du jour when  The World Is Gone  dropped on the welldistributed XL label.The reviews for  The World Is Gone  were mostly excellent, and rightly so. But dubstep's moment of quasimainstream attention turned out to be less than a blip, at least in America. (Aside from Burial, maybe, but that's another review.) Now Various, their purposeful anonymity shtick leaving them vaguely aligned with any particular scene, was well suited to weather this sudden lack of attention, as dubstep's core producers retreated to the international (but UKcentered) underground. But instead of fleeing for the safety of chill out culture or morphing into a postrock act or some other lameass audiencebuilding measure, Various issued a remix comp and a handful of singles that pledged allegiance to the digital brutalism of dubstep's new school.And now comes album number two,  The Invisible Lodger, closer to the funereal mood of  The World is Gone  than the 8bit beatdowns of current dubstep hotshots like Rustie and Zomby. (A partial exception is \"Robot Dialogue\", where the corrosive bleeps come off like Various' take on recent \"wonky\" singles, but at a tempo that suggests its creators were very sad and/or very stoned.) So the rainsoaked vibe remains, but rhythmically the doggedly downcast  Invisible Lodger  owes very little to the sinister, clubready throb of the duo's own early work. \"The Unwritten Book\", in fact, sounds uncannily like an old Mogwai demo. The ratio of gloomrock to garage has been sharply inverted on  The Invisible Lodger. Whereas Various tunes once stood out by mixing fragile fingerpicked guitar with brutish, samplerbuilt cyborg grooves, new tracks like \"The Pure Sun\" and \"English Estate\", with their Radiophonic Workshop synth sweeps and wheezing accordions, float along almost beatfree.But not vocalfree. On  The World is Gone, the femme vocals added replay value to a genre that, stripped of the human voice, could get pretty repetitive. (Hey, even acknowledged techno geniuses would have a hard time coming up with an interesting 60 minutes using  just  beats and bass.) The ladies stayed home this time out, and Various drafted a lone male vocalist: Scottish poet Gerry Mitchell. Not a brilliant move, true, but not a crippling blow. At the risk of being castigated by poetry fans and Mitchell's mom, I have to admit I didn't spend a lot of time on lyrical analysis while listening to  The Invisible Lodger. Those in the know may think Mitchell's work is spectacular or truly awful, but it didn't detract from my enjoyment of the album. It didn't particularly enhance it, either. The  sound  of his voice, however, adds an extra layer of campy desolation to Various' infinite sadness. Mitchell's batterthick brogue becomes another instrument, one deployed with an occasionally irritating regularity. Now it's Various'  music  that demonstrates an admirable range, while the vocals get pretty repetitive.A lot of people are going to hate on this record, and needlessly so. I understand the involuntary internal shudder of revulsion caused by the phrase \"spoken word\" quite well. But  The Invisible Lodger  is hardly a drastic change to Various' basic sound. (It's not as if they ditched some idiosyncratic, irreplaceable frontman with some dude hawking chapbooks on a Glasgow streetcorner.) Yes, it's hardly as good as  The World is Gone  , but whether they collaborate with melancholy chick crooners hymning emotional masochism, or melancholy dude poets mumbling into their lager about the collapse of western civ, Various still knows their way around bummed out background music. "}