{"label":" A&M","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13779/homepage_large.a4d28fde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"K'naan","title":"Troubadour","text":" When the name \"Somalia\" penetrates Western consciousness, its invocation is almost invariably horrific, saddening, and dire. We may still most readily associate the nation with the famously disastrous UN peacekeeping missions of the mid90s (documented in the book and film Black Hawk Down), yet a cursory glance at headlines in 2009 yields news of malnutrition, piracy, and ominous support of AlQaeda, and we're reminded that strife, fighting, and famine have been facts of life in Somalia for decades.Somaliborn rapper K'naan managed to flee the country in 1991, shortly after the outbreak of its stillongoing civil war, yet there's no doubt he experienced more than enough violence and destitution in the 1980s under the totalitarian regime of president Siad Barre to last a lifetime. As you'd expect, emerging from one of the fiercest, bloodiest places on the planet has indelibly shaped K'naan's artistry. On his initially unnoticed but ultimately highly acclaimed 2005 debut, The Dusty Foot Philosopher, this intimacy with horror manifested itself in a combination of deeply felt African melodies and bitterly spat rhymes, which unblinkingly held up a picture of Third World hardship presumably exceeding in chaos and misery even the most harrowing upbringing in the ghettoes of the United States.Truth be told, K'naan's weighing of the Somali experience against the innercity struggles of American rappers became a fairly substantial talking point both on his debut record itself and in the media runup to his first majorlabel offering, the newly released Troubadour. K'naan provides enough ammunition for music writers to fashion the comparison into the crux of their profiles and reviews, permitting them to rail against \"bling\" (The Telegraph) and \"braggadocio posturing\" (Spin) without coming off the slightest bit flippant, because hey, K'naan had it far rougher, and he finds current American rap (according to an interview with NPR) to be \"a comedy\" that's \"kind of cute\" in its attempts to be hardcore.Regardless of the fact that I wouldn't last five minutes in Somalia and 50 Cent might not last an hour, it seems rather counterproductive and pointless to even indirectly diminish the very legitimate formative struggles of someone like T.I. or Lil Wayne. But it's hardly surprising, considering K'naan seems to be positing himself (and allowing himself to be posited) as an antidote to conscienceless, spoiled, insular mainstream rap in all kinds of ways. The ambition is admirable, and K'naan's talents are formidable, yet Troubadour suffers from the same shortcomings as many majorlabel debuts from arresting independent artists. Namely, it tries to do too much and aims to be too many things to too many people. K'naan hasn't yet demonstrated the capacity to be a fullon savior, and Troubadour's noble breadth ends up stretching its protagonist too thin.Without question, Troubadour makes K'naan more accessible and openhearted than the snarling, apoplectic emcee who often sounded like Eminem on his debut. The new album was largely recorded at the Marleyfamed Tuff Gong Studio in Jamaica, and at its best finds K'naan remarkably approximating Bob's great gift for conflating the personal and the universal, for crafting broadly appealing global pop that brims with pathos and personality. There's the Lennonechoing \"Dreamer\", which finds a teenage K'naan quoting A Tribe Called Quest to distract himself from the atrocity in front of his eyes, as well as \"Wavin' Flag\", a melodic gem and a stirring redemption song for the suffering people of his homeland. There's \"Somalia\", with its eerie spare flutes and haunting images of \"coffins closing,\" and the heartbreaking Slumdogish \"Fatima\", a devastating story of young love and big dreams dashed in a war zone. And to show cleverness and verve still thrive in an illfated land, there's \"15 Minutes Away\", a comically engaging saga about restlessly waiting for Western Union funds that evokes the scampish charm of Mike Skinner.Unfortunately, this bigtent spirit also occasionally dilutes some of the elements that made K'naan's debut so striking. The grooves and hooks of \"I Come Prepared\", \"America\", and \"Take a Minute\" are far more limp than anything on Troubadour's predecessor, which boasted richly native musical explorations like \"Soobax\" and \"Hoobaale\". What's worse, someone decided this comingout party needed a dose of star power, and so even setting aside the presence of K'naan supporter and facilitator Damian Marley, the album unnecessarily features a sluggish Mos Def (\"America\"), a totally superfluous Kirk Hammett (\"If Rap Gets Jealous\"), and a game but jarringly out of place Adam Levine (\"Bang Bang\"). K'naan may well be prescient in his canny prediction that \"I'll probably win a Grammy\" (\"America\") since his remarkable story and positive bent are pitchperfect bait for such honors. Still, I wish I left Troubadour feeling like I knew more about Somalia than I did going in, and I'm not entirely sure that's the case. "}