{"label":" Acute","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13784/homepage_large.f3a9a9c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"The Lines","title":"Flood Bank","text":" Between the years of 1976 and 1986 alone, approximately 5,943 punk/indie/new wave bands formed and folded, never to be heard from again (trust us, we counted). That was just in the UK and, needless to say, mostly for the better. Many of those acts weren't even memorable enough to be forgotten. Of course, that hasn't stopped a cottage industry of reissue imprints from treating every lost album like a classic, but every so often, the stream of overlooked acts given second chances turns up something pretty great.Case in point: the Lines. Falling somewhere between the minimalist funk of A Certain Ratio, the angular Spartan punk of Wire or early Cure, and the atmospheric art rock of fellow couldabeens the Sound, the Lines existed between 1978 and 1983, releasing five singles, one EP, and two LPs. The group apparently never toured and, more obviously, never took off, disappearing off the grid to all but the most avid collectors. But when those singles and EPs were compiled last year as  Memory Span, many wondered how a group like the Lines could escape notice for so long, especially considering the band's linear postpunk owed much to the evergreen (and everhip) Factory Records aesthetic (even if, like a lot of the Factory stable, the music boasted more potential than payoff).Still, the group had something, and finally, with the release of  Memory Span, new fans had something as well. And now with  Flood Bank, they have something more. Specifically, the set rounds up the group's two LPs,  Therapy  and  Ultramarine, resequenced for impact rather than chronologically, offering a fresh way to approach the Lines' admittedly limited output, whether you caught them the first time around or (more likely) didn't.There are some great tracks here, most of which have escaped the postpunk reissue craze. \"Stripe\" is halfspeed funk, all groove and menace, while \"Airlift\"'s combo of canned and live percussion, spare guitar, and rubbery bass leads to an unexpectedly melodic chorus. The sentimental \"Blow a Kiss\" comes off almost as a UK take on Buddy Holly's pop primitivism, and if the hectic \"Have a Heart\" is more recognizably protonew wave, it's sparse enough to have escaped many of the era's gaudy trappings. The ballad \"No Hiding\" doesn't sound quite fully formed, yet the slow jam \"Ultramarine\" could have been a college radio hit, given more spit and polish.Lines leader Rico Conning (now a noted engineer) hailed from Macclesfield, also home to Ian Curtis, and you can often hear glimmers of Joy Division, too, in the tribal percussion and studio experiments. (Conning himself claims allegiance to Krautrock and Television, among others.) But the more time you spend with the Lines, the more individual character the music exudes. This isn't the sound of trainjumping followers but contemporaneous leaders leaders no doubt shocked that few were lining up behind them. So belated or not, let the queue start here. "}