{"label":" Skull Disco","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13796/homepage_large.fff344a3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Soundboy's Gravestone Gets Desecrated By Vandals","text":" Stripping away the glossy hooks of UK garage for a return to dark jungle's allornothing intensity, dubstep's raison d'être was a lowend that damn near suffocated those dancers just looking for fun night out. And few artists took the genre's alienating torpor further than the Skull Disco crew. Shackleton, Appleblim, and their associates made \"dance\" music for the lostlooking souls poured into ratty couches at the back of the club, hypnotized by the speaker cones bulging in and out. Tense and clammy, the minimalist hand percussion and bloodcurdling drones on Skull Disco releases could give you the cold sweats on a sunny day.But by the time Ricardo Villalobos stretched Shackleton's \"Blood on My Hands\" into the spookiest dance single of the decade in 2007, just two years after the label formed, Skull Disco could offer little in the way of surprise. Repetition was diluting the sound's effectiveness: Another tribal drum pattern topped with a lunatic spoken word sample? Perhaps that's why, late last year, Skull Disco shuttered. Listening to Soundboy's Gravestone Gets Desecrated By Vandals, the second and final Skull Disco CD compilation following 2007's Soundboy Punishments, closing up shop was a wise decision on Shackleton and Appleblim's part. Only selfparody could result from another halfdozen singles in a similar vein.Split into one CD of original tunes and one CD of remixes from international contemporaries like Pole and Bass Clef, Soundboy's Gravestone offers more of the same, arriving in stores just before fanboy boredom turns to irritation. Disc One remains an excellent soundtrack for a slushchoked, bitter winter where economic conditions have turned the most outgoing club rats into hermits out of necessity. For those who've sampled Skull Disco's wares before and worry another nine tracks might be superfluous, one new development is that the kinship with nondubsteppers feels more pronounced. Appleblim and Peverelist's \"Circling\" softens dubstep's bass wobble and clunky drums with synth sweeps from the early days of Euro dubtechno, while the microedited drums on Shackleton's \"You Bring Me Down\" owe more to postgitch German wizards than they do to any UK sampler hero rearranging breakbeats.As for Disc Two, it may seem perverse given my earlier kvetching about the label's diminishing returns, but the remixes that abandon the label's gloomsodden mood are usually the least effective, like Brendon Møller's attempt to turn Appleblim and Peverelist's \"Over Here\" into fullon Force Tracksstyle Eurohouse, complete with an undistinguished 4/4 beat. Meanwhile the best remixes offer welcome tweaks from those outside the dubstep scene without completely smothering the S.D. vibe. Pole's take on Shackleton's \"Shortwave\" retains the original's hypnotic quality while the always dubfriendly Stefan Betke strips the groove to the faintest skitterpulse and splices the background hum into his usual chunks of reverbheavy grit. While you can admire Skull Disco's integrity in deciding to mothball the whole operation rather than dilute their vision, tracks like the \"Shortwave\" remix make you wonder if the label couldn't have productively mutated in perpetuity. "}