{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13799/homepage_large.a9b342b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"DM Stith","title":"Heavy Ghost","text":" Skimming his website, one might get the impression that David Stith, who records as DM Stith, takes his music seriously, but perhaps not that seriously. \"Heavy Ghost is streaming in its entirety over at AsthmaticKitty.com!\" he blogged recently, alluding to the impending release of his fulllength debut. \"I recommend steamed potatoes as an accompaniment. Steam them, then fry them a little, then shake some soy sauce over them. I had mine sliced an eighth of an inch thin and they were delish. Fever's still here but I'm full of yum. And a little broccoli. Excellent.\" But Stith's casually quotidian conflation of his cooking and craft (overlooking, for now, the intimation of illness) is belied by the weight of Heavy Ghost itself, a perfectly named disc. A designer by trade, Stith has apparently always been musically inclined, but it took working with Shara Worden on My Brightest Diamond's bow to serve as a catalyst for releasing his own works. Yet it's hard to imagine Stith keeping this music bottled up and private for so long. \"Music feels less like striving for acceptance and more like life,\" wrote Stith on his site a few posts earlier, and that admission provides a more accurate glimpse into the subconscious but intensely spiritual inclinations that make Stith's idiosyncratic songs tick. As for just what those songs constitute, well, that's a tall order. As a vocalist, Stith shares some softspoken similarities with the ever wistful Robert Wyatt, especially on tracks such as \"BMB\", \"Creekmouth\", \"Thanksgiving Moon\", and \"Morning Glory Cloud\", but as with Wyatt's own records the music's difficult to encapsulate. Here that beguiling elusiveness manifests itself as a sort of eerie chamber cabaret, full of distant choirs and hypnotic percussion, folky interludes and dissonant deconstructions, augmented by strange scraping and strumming and the occasional striking shift from minor to major chord. It's this push and pull between equally mysterious poles that makes songs such as \"Pigs\" and \"Pity Dance\" so entrancing, if ultimately, intriguingly tough to pin down. Elusiveness can be a frustrating quality in music, rebuffing any attempts to engage and often leaving the song suspended in a state of untouchable purgatory, but here that elusiveness works largely in Stith's favor. As tough as it may be to pin down the pastoral but still somehow strikingly tense \"Fire of Birds\" or the stunning emotional catharsis of \"Braid of Voices\", the experience of being trapped with Stith in such a strange, sui generis little world is in some ways compensation enough, even if the odd, unpredictable melodies and structures make a quick embrace impossible. Heavy Ghost is music that demands attention but rarely acts out as an easy means of getting it. It's an impressively dense and mature work, and without a doubt sometimes tough listening, too, but somehow not hard to listen to, let alone hard to like. It's almost as if Stith is meeting the listener halfway but no more than that, keeping his distance rather than helping us over that final hurdle. No, that would be \"striving for acceptance,\" and therefore unacceptable. Rather, Heavy Ghost is, in Stith's words, \"more like life:\" sometimes challenging, sometimes confusing, but, in the end, rewarding. "}