{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13813/homepage_large.20d6e1da.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Brethren of the Free Spirit","title":"The Wolf Shall Also Dwell with the Lamb","text":" James Blackshaw and Jozef van Wissem are logical collaborators. Blackshaw, a British guitarist descended from the modern primitive tradition of John Fahey and Robbie Basho, and van Wissem, a lute player and minimalist composer from Maastricht, both produce searching but accessible music that lends itself to meditative states. It should come as no surprise, then, that the music they make together traverses similar terrain. The tension between texture and melody in Blackshaw's music and van Wissem's love of palindromic melodies and spare composition are each well in evidence on these four joint compositions it's a pairing of rare sympathy, but it also feels somewhat more slight than the work of either man on his own. Perhaps it's the brevity of the album half an hour or the fact that the first seven minutes is nothing but a wandering exploration of guitar harmonics and the wolf tones of the lute, but any chance for true immersion the album affords is lamentably fleeting. That's not to be taken as a writeoff. At its best, this music is vibrant, deriving amazing amounts of energy from simple interplay of repeated figures. Blackshaw plays a 12string guitar tuned to DADEAD on the whole album, and van Wissem counters with a speciallybuilt 13course Baroque lute. The tones of the instruments blend well, allowing the listener to concentrate on the slow mutation of patterns and the strange symmetry of the musical figures. The two middle pieces are the best of the four, with the title track beautifully building a collection of tiny melodic fragments into a gentle flowing, lighterthanair bed of sound that almost resembles a harpsichord caprice. Its nearly nine minutes pass by in a flash as the figures come and go in steady waves. \"Into the Dust of the Earth\" is a little more involved, harmonically, revolving around ancientsounding, cycling melodies. The rhythm is accented with hard, buzzing plucks of the strings, and 12string guitar has an interesting, almost chorused sound in the lower registers.  The album's longest piece, \"I Am a Flower of Sharon and a Rose in the Valley,\" closes things out on an intentionally unresolved note, ending its spare, fragmented run by leaving a few notes just hanging in the air it's a neat piece from moment to moment (especially when van Wissem breaks out the bottleneck slide in the midsection), but it lacks the flow from tension to release and back that characterize the best tracks on the record. Those who are devoted to the new wave of acoustic experimentalism Blackshaw and van Wissem are helping to lead will undoubtedly find much to enjoy here, but for more casual listeners it lacks the power and emotional pull of either man's work. "}