{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13817/homepage_large.0046e324.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Obits","title":"I Blame You","text":" While many are still recovering from the loss of Hot Snakes, their principals have wasted no time resurfacing: first, John Reis and drummer Jason Kourkounis in the Night Marchers, and now the debut from Snakes' singer and guitarist Rick Froberg with Obits. Froberg has a long legacy to live up to if he didn't want albatrosses like Drive Like Jehu or Hot Snakes around his neck, he should have been in bands that were less awesome but while there's evidence of growth here, there's not enough change to alienate fans. If they can appreciate a little less mania and a little more melody, I Blame You will be a comfortable fit. Along with the voice that fronted his old band, Froberg carries the same staunch, traditional, almost obstinate approach to guitardriven rock'n'roll. He even continues his streak of doing all the artwork for his albums.Despite a tongueincheek cover claiming it's \"Xtra Compressed for Maximum Listener Fatigue\" another shot at modern recording methods and another window into Froberg's own ideals I Blame You just sounds right: dueling guitars that have refined the echo and twang of surf and rockabilly into a sharp edge, basslines that are less walking than swaggering, drums too respectful and too evil for elaborate fills. Yet with all that, it is probably Froberg's most melodic and diverse record. \"Widow of My Dreams\" treads familiar ground with a descending surfrock riff and a few hairraising guitar bends, and \"TwoHeaded Coin\" is the album's catchiest and most linear track, built on a foundation of shimmying bass and the shake of maracas. The span of \"Pine On\" to \"Fake Kinkade\" is more than enough proof that no one has lost their touch, but outside of a rather jagged Snakesesque run through of an old blues track by Kokomo Arnold, \"Mllk Cow Blues\", those songs are the exceptions rather than the norm.Some of that aforementioned diversity translates into filler, including the meandering \"Run\", led by second vocalist/guitarist Sohrab Habibion, and the instrumental title track and that's just side A. Hearing Froberg later chart a failed relationship over the midtempo earnestness of \"SUD\" is rather leaden, but he takes a different tack with the same subject on closer \"Back and Forth\". The \"Be My Baby\" beat seems a little easy for someone like Froberg, who's found plenty of ways to rock convincingly on countless records without ever being obvious. But the winking retread and simple shoutalong chorus doesn't sound tired here it sounds earned.That's possibly in part due to Froberg's lyrics being no less cynical when slowing it down (\"You say that nobody ever knows anyone at at all/ That's not true; I know you\"). Nor is the album deficient for lacking big choruses or muscular shock and awe; in fact, many of this record's best surprises are moments like when the whiteknuckle ascending riff of \"Light Sweet Crude\" recedes into a quieter, simmering chorus, something more appropriate for a lowgear pursuit on a dark, winding road than a highoctane highway chase. It's great that the band can slow down and still hold attention, and one hopes Obits will dig deeper and find new thrills in old traditions in the coming years. "}