{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13806/homepage_large.555f37eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Bell Orchestre","title":"As Seen Through Windows","text":" Bell Orchestre released their debut fulllength, Recording a Tape the Colour of the Light, in 2005, which was both good and bad timing. At the time, Montreal's music scene was holding Stateside listeners in thrall, with legions of talented and energetic multiinstrumentalists crafting classically trained bombast. Bell Orchestre's more abstract Recording a Tape, an entirely instrumental work, received a deservedly high profile but was perhaps unjustly viewed through the same lens.That's because the Orchestre essentially exists as a nexus, a connector of things. They're baroque pop without the pop, postrock without (most of) the rock. The works on As Seen Through Windows might be called \"neoclassical,\" except to a classical listener they sound cacophonous: Opener \"Stripes\" is an orchestral take on Neu!, or maybe just an orchestral warmup set to an insistent motorik beat. But for the group's proud nosynths policy, the brass lead could just as easily have been conceived as a Minimoog from the progressive 1970s.The analog sound comes in part from producer John McEntire. Under the Tortoise leader's helm, the Orchestre seems to have nudged a bit over into jazzy vibraphone ambiance. The rhythmic complexity and duration of songs has increased, but even the tracks ranging north of eight minutes flow with the easily parsed dynamics of threeminute works. The \"Arcade Fire thing\" is still relevant (violinist Sarah Neufeld and redheaded Napoleon Dynamite doppelganger Richard Parry are fulltime BO members) the group engages in the same happy onslaughts as their better known contemporaries. Yet whereas Arcade Fire engage the listener in personal and political appeals, Bell Orchestre offer impressionistic narratives of the world around them.For example, \"Elephants\" actually features brass recalling a pachyderm call, accompanied by string screeches sounding like wayward seabirds. In lieu of actual vocals, lyricism is derived from the character of a French horn, the tenor of a violin's hurried bow, the Dave Fridmannesque drum stampede. The work evokes a scene rather than a style, asking the listener to reconstruct veldt and seaside imagery in the context of (at least loosely) a rock song.Granted, some of this may seem similar to the overly conceptual work of postrock forebears like McEntire's Tortoise. It might seem pedantic, but the overreferenced Arcade Fire thing is actually the best rebuttal. Orchestre, like many dedicated postrock artists, are themselves critics, triangulating the state of rock music by abstractly recasting it according to their own training. But they're also editors, often juxtaposing subtle hints of their own influences with energy, subtlety, and originality.Take the record's closer: \"Air Lines/Land Lines\" breathes a folksy, almost antebellum charm before engaging a hymnic and jazzy crescendo, then closing by mediating on its original theme. It crystallizes Bell Orchestre as a group whose talented players voraciously consume the world around it and rechannel its varied histories into the works. Windows extends the filmic dynamism and orchestral spark that carried Recording a Tape, but instead of remaining in the background, the narrative impressionistic and imperfect comes to a oftenunpredictable present. "}