{"label":" Dim Mak / Downtown","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13823/homepage_large.3ec94419.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"MSTRKRFT","title":"Fist of God","text":" At the beginning of \"Click Click\", guest E40 says, \"MSTRKRFT, what is it doe,\" dwarfed by a maelstrom of pulverizing riffs that seem to come with their own laser show. What it is, for E40, turns out to be something of an endurance test: Even the limbertongued rapper struggles to assert himself through the breakneck pace of MSTRKRFT's power chords. It's like listening to someone trying to rap in a lightning field. This is a telling moment on an album that always seems to be shouting over itself, a tone that accounts for Fist of God's virtues and shortcomings alike.Jesse F. Keeler still played bass and synths in Death from Above 1979 when he formed MSTRKRFT with producer Alex Puodziukas (aka. AlP), which is now his primary endeavor. The transition represents Keeler gradually weaning himself off of rock, trading his bass guitar for various consoles and his danceinflected rock music for rockinflected dance music. Indebted to Daft Punk's vocalinfused robohouse, Justice's arenasized stomp, and Vitalic's toothgrinding tunnels of distortion, Fist of God has an metallic quality that doesn't falter even when riffage occasionally subsides, like on John Legend vehicle \"Heartbreaker\", where piano phrases seem wrought in gleaming chrome. More often, the tracks are comprised of loops caught perfectly between guitar and synthsounds. MSTRKRFT use delay, reverb, attack adjustments, and distortion to carve up these loops, reveling in quicksand bass and scintillating treble. At their most aggressive, the various strands of each track seem locked in mortal combat. \"1000 Cigarettes\" is like an electrofunk version of \"The Devil Went Down to Georgia\", with Eddie Van Halen as Johnny and a Roland drum machine as the devil.Fist of God improves on MSTRKRFT's first effort, The Looks, simply by jettisoning its omnipresent vocoder. If anything, it's too wellgroomed, despite its wildout vibe. There's a whiff of genreexercise in the way strobelight drum claps telegraph whooshing surges, vocal snips crisply striate each measure on the title track, and each contorting lick moves inexorably through realtime filter sweeps. With an everexpanding collection of hardware and software, samples and sound banks, analog and digital synths, MSTRKRFT's sound is formally pristine, but a few stray hairs would lend it more character.As it stands, Fist of God is a roundly enjoyable album with few highs and lows. A couple of the cameos are worthwhile: N.O.R.E.'s turn on \"Bounce\" suits the record's tone, and the track rates a prestigebolstering remix on ATrak's forthcoming mix album, Infinity + 1. Freeway is game and energetic on the alternate mix of \"1000 Cigarettes\", although he sounds rushed (and you can imagine how gnarly a track must be to rush Freeway), and Little Moe's deephouse diva turn on \"It Ain't Love\" holds up surprisingly well against the track's dotmatrix abrasion. John Legend's incredibly insipid lyrics about butterflies and rainbows don't do \"Heartbreaker\" any favors, but neither do they completely ruin it. It's a mystery why Jamal of soulpunk band the Carps warranted two guest spots, as both are profoundly anonymous.And what the hell happened with \"Word Up\", the Ghostface collab? His warmup chatter predicts a firebrand verse that never arrives instead, a couple of innocuous phrases (\"word up,\" \"do it hard\") get cut up in uninteresting ways with clipped rave sirens and gymnastic synthbass. You have to wonder if they got Ghost in the studio and then couldn't get anything worthwhile out of him, but you can't blame them for attempting to work with what they got would you pass up the chance to write \"feat. Ghostface Killah\" on your tracklist? In a way, this is representative of the album it's got all the right moves in place, but MSTRKRFT's handle on content is still slightly lagging behind their facility for tone and form. But if you're just looking for wellturned, rockfriendly, danceparty fodder, you could do a lot worse than Fist of God. "}