{"label":" Afternoon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13829/homepage_large.2873d927.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Sissy Wish","title":"Beauties Never Die","text":" Siri Ålberg's stage name is both apt and a little misleading: \"Sissy Wish\" is a rough translation of Per Pusling, a character in a novel by Astrid Lindgren, the Swedish author who created Pippi Longstocking. The pseudonym may initially evoke images of cardiganclad musicians strumming playgroundset songs, but Ålberg's music is anything but twee and naïve. Rather, the name Sissy Wish implies a combination of playfulness and wistfulness two qualities in good supply on Ålberg's third fulllength. Originally released in Norway in 2007 and finally getting a U.S. release this spring,  Beauties Never Die balances maturity and wonder as it takes a hard left turn away from the guitardriven rock of the first two Sissy Wish albums. Instead, Ålberg and producer Jørgen Træn toy with computers, synths, and a few live instruments to animate these 10 inventive, diverse tracks. As such, the album shares some similarities with recent efforts by fellow Scandinavian dancing queens Annie and Sally Shapiro, but it sounds as though Ålberg has arrived at this new sound not through a wellstocked record collection or a thorough knowledge of pop history (although one expects she has both), but by giving full rein to all her personality quirks and musical curiosities.Ålberg has plenty of both. Her voice is high and pinched like Karen O's or Cyndi Lauper's, and she writes wordy songs full of unexpected hooks and lengthy melodic phrases, mixing exuberant shoutouts (\"Do a rockabilly dance, baby take my hand!\") with quotable insights (\"It takes a lifetime to find out if someone's happy to see you every day\"). Ålberg even tapdances a solo on \"Ya Ya Ya\". Bolstering her charming eccentricities is an eclecticism that makes Beauties wideranging yet surprisingly cohesive, as if its emphasis on electronics has allowed her simultaneously to indulge and to give shape to her every whim. Each song has its own distinguishing sonic gesture: DIY girlgroup drums add drama to that declarationofdedication title, \"Milk\" breaks for a steel drum solo, and \"Do What They Say\" revolves around the shouted dancefloor decree \"Do what they say!\" Doowop vocals and castanets lift the jumpy chorus of closer \"Book\", which may feature the album's most infectious hook. The wide range of styles evident on Beauties speaks less of someone trying to recreate the music of the past than reimagining it in her own image.Beauties, however, proves most powerful when it's most quiet. The acoustic \"Music on the Radio\" may get lost among the synth starbursts during the first few listens, but its halting, tender chorus is the album's best showcase for her vocals and the callandresponse between piano and guitar on the bridge is its most fragile moment. It's ostensibly about the intimate connection between performer and listener, but as hushed as the song sounds, Ålberg promises to dance: \"I'd rather be dead than behave after what you'll be playing today,\" she sings teasingly. What comes through most on this and every song is a strong, multifaceted personality: Ålberg may have borrowed her stage name, but on Beauties she comes across as wholly her own person. "}