{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13836/homepage_large.66860010.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Crystal Antlers","title":"Tentacles","text":" Cold War Kids tabbed Crystal Antlers as their opening act on an upcoming tour a surprising move considering CWK represents, in part, blogsavvy music fans prioritizing the familiar over the daring, while Crystal Antlers trade in styles often treated with disinterest or sometimes outright derision. Antlers are a heavy and especially loud psychpunk band, but they lack the outsider cachet of metal or noise; their psychedelia is more shaggy than dreamy and they're not stonerock enough to sidle up next to, say, Black Mountain or Comets on Fire. Then again, if there really is a crossover album in these guys, what would it even sound like?It probably wouldn't sound like Tentacles. Though far from a disappointment (and actually something of a grower), Crystal Antlers' proper debut is, more than their EP, the sound of a band still with more potential than goods. Essentially, the band is finetuning and troubleshooting its approach, a risky move considering how many bands that didn't immediately and immensely top their EP have been jettisoned, wrongfully or rightfully. EP  drew its strengths from dynamics and artfully missing marks high point \"A Thousand Eyes\" treated genre like a park wizard hopping between five different simultaneous chess games; now the band's sounds seem tidily compartmentalized.It turns Tentacles  into a surprisingly focused affair even though it contains twice as many tracks as EP, it's about 15 minutes longer. Opener \"Painless Sleep\" features Victor Rodriguez's skidding organ peals skipping over themselves, showing a sense of playfulness that's unique in Crystal Antlers' line of work. But immediately following, \"Dust\" and \"Time Erased\", despite their forceful rhythms, display a worrying compositional consistency that at times feels like a crutch. Truth be told, melody isn't exactly the most impressive strength of singer/bassist Jonny Bell. His strangulated wail barks out clipped fragments before slamming on the breaks. In the context of their whiplash live show, these sort of dynamics are thrilling and necessary; yet the sound here feels more trebleheavy and brittle, ranging from loud to slightly louder.\"Andrew\" is the first break in this template and unquestionably the most promising moment of the record's first half. It's not too far off the path of EP's  bongloaded slower numbers, but there's a surprisingly vulnerability in Bell's wail \"don't let me die all alone\" becomes one of the few intelligible lyrics on Tentacles. \"Until The Sun Dies, Pt. 1\" bisects Tentacles and augurs a surprisingly mellow side B that often relegates guitar into texture and turns organ as a lead instrument. It's a promising development that gives Crystal Antlers a sound that sets them apart from their contemporaries.Whether or not Tentacles  is considered the jumping off point for a promising career or a jumping off point for bandwagoneers, there's a weight on it that goes beyond mere expectation: It will likely be the last new release on Touch and Go Records. It felt like such a great fit what better home for loud, yet accessible bands that fell just shy of Sub Pop or Matador or Merge middlebrow? But even Crystal Antlers have a substantially brighter outlook than that of Touch and Go, both are still in the same place as of now, plotting the course for a future that just got muddy more quickly than expected. "}