{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13832/homepage_large.761cb79b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Lotus Plaza","title":"The Floodlight Collective","text":" It'll be a shame if Lockett Pundt's solo debut gets lost in all the light and heat coming from his main band. But it won't be surprising. In a rare interview, the shy Deerhunterer told blog BBQCHICKENROBOT that he started recording his album at the beginning of 2007. Since then, Deerhunter has released Cryptograms, the Fluorescent Grey EP, and last year's Microcastle/Weird Era Cont.; lead singer Bradford Cox's Atlas Sound has released Let the Blind Lead Those Who Can See But Cannot Feel, plus a staggering number of mp3s, mixes, and nonalbum tracks. At shows, Pundt can be seen strumming wordlessly, staring toward his effects pedals.And yet the sole figure behind Lotus Plaza has had a huge and all too often unacknowledged role in establishing Deerhunter's hallucinatory sound. The Atlanta band's chaotic 2005 debut, Deerhunter aka Turn It Up Faggot, gets kind of a bad rap, no doubt in part because Cox disavowed the thing. But it shows that Deerhunter didn't turn into the shoegazedrenched dreamweavers we know and love until after Pundt joined. Pundt wrote the music for some of Deerhunter's most indelible songs \"Strange Lights\", \"Like New\" and made his singing debut on Microcastle. The Atlas Sound album, which features Pundt's guitar on \"Cold as Ice\", is dedicated to him.So that the first Lotus Plaza album, The Floodlight Collective, is a hazy bedroom reverie shouldn't surprise listeners accustomed to other Deerhunterrelated projects, the hypnotic solo work of Panda Bear, the lonesome longing of Jeremy Jay, or to a lesser extent the introverted homemade racket of Wavves and Dum Dum Girls. Produced by Brian Foote of Nudge, the album submerges plaintive vocals in layer after reverbwashed cloud layer of ethereal guitar atmospherics, achieving a woozy and sometimes barely intelligible prettiness. That can best be heard on tracks like the tambourinejangling \"Whiteout\" its gentle melody gaining force on repeat listens or the squealing, Quickspaceesque rocker \"What Grows?\" (it does, an abstract Yo La Tengo). Pundt plays all instruments, except for Cox's turn on Factoryready drums for the sweet dream pop of \"Different Mirrors\"; a bouncy Supremes beat gives way to outerspace Roy Orbison on \"Quicksand\". The krautrock pulse and pianodripping radiance of sevenminute centerpiece \"Antoine\" sound like a Stereolab disciple starting to come into his own.As with bashful Blur guitarist Graham Coxon on his own solo debut more than a decade ago, Pundt at times lets his diffidence get the best of him. For all the subtle detail in a track like the mournful, pitchshifted \"Sunday Night\" which vaguely recalls Atlas Sound's \"Bite Marks\" in its nostalgic main riff with Pundt's melodic and conceptual strengths so submerged, the album can begin to run together. That's probably the point: From the washedout cover art to the few discernible lyrics, The Floodlight Collective is obsessed with the indistinctness of memory, the dazzlement of bright lights. Opener \"Red Oak Way\", maybe Pundt's \"Hazel St.\", longs for \"sunny Saturdays watching cartoons in the living room,\" warm rays shining through the windowpane. So The Floodlight Collective is a mostly elegant listen, and one whose failings are part of its theme: Like a vague recollection, it's still a little hard to hold onto after it's over pretty albeit somewhat ephemeral. Memory knows before knowing remembers, sure, but too much light makes the baby go blind. "}