{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13853/homepage_large.d711fc40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2009","text":" Ah, the Pop Ambient compilation. So reliable, so consistent, you could almost set your watch to the darn thing. Every year, it shows up around the same time with those same Photoshopped flowers. It features the same loose collection of artists (Klimek's back!) who share the same central aim: to rub some ointment on your postwinter blues with the gentle drifts and glides fans of the series have come to expect. The comp is rarely astounding and at the same time, never really disappointing. With a few minor tweaks to their timetested formula and a couple fresh faces onboard, Kompakt's 2009 installment of its annual ambienttechno roundup is no different.As he's done in the past, label head Wolfgang Voigt serves as the set's curator. Perhaps encouraged by the warm reception to his (excellent) Nah Und Fern boxset from last year, the Gas mastermind also contributes a handful of new songs to PA09. Sadly they're not his finest. Under his Mint moniker, Voigt presents \"Hindemith\", a relatively hohum concoction of spare piano, horns, and his signature vaporlike hiss. He teams up with longtime pal Jörg Burger for a pair of tracks: a pleasant but mostly forgettable remix of Jürgen Paape's \"Ausklang\" and \"Frieden\", a Burger/Voigt original that's easily the best of his three offerings. With deep basslines and active, echoing synths, it's equally soothing and dynamic, just what you want out of a Pop Ambient cut.In addition to PA mainstays such as Andrew Thomas, Voigt and co. invite some new collaborators into the mix this year, and the album's prime cuts are split between its veterans and rookies. Popnoname (real name Jens Uwe Beyer), a producer who honed his skills on these compilations before venturing into solo material, offers once such standout in \"Nightliner\". He dunks a mild bassguitar thump into a warm noise bath to coax an astral, floating quality from the track; the result is a delicious dose of auditory Percocet. Newcomers the Fun Years an intriguing inclusion as a guitarbased outfit also manage a winner with \"I Am Speaking Through Barbara\". A sort of postrock/shoegaze hybrid, the song's organic textures offer satisfying contrast to the digital sounds elsewhere.Other stretches of PA09 illustrate the series' gradual shift towards the orchestral, a trend that has characterized the past several entries and frustrated some longtime listeners. Such gripes are easy to understand, since a degree of propulsion (some beats here and there) is what sets ambient techno apart from, say, modern classical. That distinction is largely ignored on the disc's front half, though, where Klimek opens with \"True Enemies & False Friends (Yesteryears Suite)\", a regalsounding brasswind piece before French composer Sylvain Chauveau drops two avantclassical numbers odd additions, since Chauveau's songs are a few years old (dating back to his 2007 Nuage soundtrack) and in a way represent a style that some simply aren't looking for from Pop Ambient.Anyone bummed by these inclusions could claim that the abundance of nonKompakt artists included here points to a lack of fresh ideas from the label, and that may be the case. Purists might even argue the venerated imprint's best days are behind it, and, indeed, one listen to any of the four Gas LPs makes many of PA09's tracks feel minorleague by comparison. But Voigt's interest in adjacent styles and willingness to draw from outside his own roster suggests to me that he's still engaged in the form and curious about what his past creations have wrought. And with a few minor exceptions (most notably the Field in 2007), Pop Ambient historically hasn't been the launching pad for Kompakt's hot new acts that's what the Total compilations are for. Instead, the series is more of a perennial thankyou note sent to a niche fanbase. If you've made it this far into my review, chances are you're one of the folks who received (and appreciated) the last missive, as you will this one and the next. "}