{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13865/homepage_large.56d4c2c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Gentleman Reg","title":"Jet Black","text":" If you stumbled upon Gentleman Reg Vermue's SIM Card, you'd likely be able to prankcall most of Canada's indie rock luminaries: Arcade Fire's Tim Kingbury (with whom he was in an early band); the Hidden Cameras, Final Fantasy, and Broken Social Scene, with whom he's performed; and the Constanines' Bry Webb (Reg's first two albums were on Three Gut), Land of Talk's Elizabeth Powell, Greg Millson from Great Lake Swimmers, and Katie Sketch from the Organ, all of whom guest on Jet Black, Vermue's first album for, you guessed it, Arts & Crafts. \"To Some It Comes Easy\" might even trigger some to reach for the liners to check if they're hearing Kevin Drew on guitar and Emily Haines on vocals.Yet despite the fact that Vermue's a walking SixDegreesofCanadianIndie, he more than distinguishes himself on Jet Black. The first thing you'll notice is the tranquil, whispery vocal style that threads throughout the record, scarcely shifting from the crunchy T. Rexisms of \"Coastline\" to the wistful \"Rewind\", paired with only acoustic guitar. Black's axes are another of its distinguishing traits: There's plenty of color and variation, highlighted by production with an immaculate sense of space. The album's production and Vermue's economical, buttoneddown songwriting offer plenty of tonal and genre variation, but everything still feels like it's hitting the same mark.Vermue's paid his dues to get to this point he labored for a couple of albums and moved from tiny Guelph, Ontario, to much wider recognition in a Toronto's overcrowded indie network and Black's overriding sentiment reflects his creative drive, filtered through the shifting dictates of life within a scene. He constantly resists the urge to secondguess himself, as on \"To Some It Comes Easy\" (\"Try to believe/ That I hit the right track/ And don't look back\") and \"You Can't Get It Back\" (But I don't waste time/ You can't get it back/ And there's no ownership line\"). On the album's best song, the minimalist powerpop groover \"How We Exit\", he begins by admitting his capricious decisionmaking skills might be a bit off, but rectifies that problem quickly, trusting his gut and splitting. When he decides to stick around, as on the discotinged \"We're In a Thunderstorm\", Vermue makes the best use of his time, extolling the virtues of simply dressing yourself up and running around.Though his earnestness might come off as humorless, a quick glance at the contradictory messages contained within Jet Black's album cover alone suggest otherwise. The title pokes fun at Vermue's unique appearance and the preternatural smoothness of his voice, both of which were enough to land him a brief spot in Shortbus (he's not a Canadian, but add John Cameron Mitchell to that list in the first paragraph). In a recent interview, Vermue said of the title that he \"wanted something tough, muscular, and rock'n'roll. People think that's funny, knowing me.\" That's the key to why Black is such an effective introduction to a wider audience: what looks, in a certain light, to be a top hat and tails, in another is a tuxedo tshirt. "}