{"label":" Reprise","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13860/homepage_large.66678414.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Mastodon","title":"Crack the Skye","text":" First off: Mastodon's album concepts are officially out of control. It's one thing to base an entire album on Herman Melville's Moby Dick, as the Atlanta band did on 2004's amazing Leviathan. But when you're making a record about a kid who experiments with astral travel and then goes through a wormhole and meets Rasputin and Rasputin enters his body to escape assassination, or something, you've pushed this whole thing way, way further than it needed to be pushed. I interviewed guitarist Bill Kelliher a couple of weeks back, and he sighed deeply before delving into the story, and it took him a good five minutes or so just to get through the thing. That's a bit much. But it doesn't particularly matter how woundup and excruciating the band's album concepts might be as long as their music kicks as hard as it does. Mastodon's music never really settles into a lockedin groove. Instead, it skips and dives and wanders. When the band switches up timesignatures, something it does often, it's not to show off mathrock chops; it's to rip the rug out from under you, to keep you uncomfortable. Crack the Skye, the band's fourth album, stays in weirdly soft midtempo churn mode more than their previous albums do, but it never lingers. Instead, it delays the gratification of the band's gigantic sunwardscreaming choruses just long enough to make you wonder if they're ever coming, which makes the release that much more overwhelming when it finally arrives. \"The Czar\", a fourpart, 11minute epic that's still only the secondlongest song on the album, gargles and fumes and lurches for nearly three minutes before launching into its first glorious steamroller riffs. This band is playing with you. The seven songs on Crack the Skye stretch over about 50 minutes, an indulgent tracklength average for any band not named Opeth. But Mastodon's odysseys never feel forced or pretentious. Even on 13minute closer \"The Last Baron\", I never really notice the track length. Every riff and roar flows organically into the next until I'm totally lost in it; hard to imagine checking the time remaining on your iPod when things get like that. In a way, Mastodon operates something like primeera Metallica, unleashing these huge, blistering tracks that journey over peaks and valleys and ditches and oceans before leaving you spinning. It's just that Mastodon's arsenal of weapons is different; instead of demiclassical guitar interludes and blazing twinguitar leads and thuggish heyheyheys, they've got soupy quasijazz trundles and pigfuck distortionexplosions and quick bursts of timehonored Southernrock melody. First single \"Divinations\" ranks among the best things the band's ever done, a quick banjo intro into a juddering riff that whips and soars through a serious fullspeed attack of a song with one of the biggest, most cathartic choruses in the band's career, then dissolves into a spacesurf solo before ending in a deeply satisfying thud. I just wish the band could've maintained that level of breathless intensity over the course of the full album, the way they did on Leviathan, still probably their best. On this one, they've broken with Leviathan/Blood Mountain producer Matt Bayles for Springsteen/Pearl Jam collaborator Brendan O'Brien. O'Brien doesn't drag them kicking and screaming onto activerock radio or anything; this is still very much a Mastodon album, with all the blistering roar that phrase has come to imply. But this one doesn't have the expansive, suffusing grime of the previous two, and the band's churn can feel a bit stretchedthin for minutes at a time. Also, Troy Sanders and Brent Hinds are singing more than ever before, rather than delivering their mythologies in veinpopped grunts the way they once did. That's not a problem in itself, but Sanders and Hinds both sing in gurgly, nauseous whines that shoot for Ozzy territory but never quite get there. When they're harmonizing eerily deep in the mix, it works. When they get closer to the top, it sometimes doesn't. And so the most powerful moments on Crack the Skye are almost always the most direct. On the title track, Neurosis' Scott Kelly shows up for a lungbusting guestvocal, bellowing over the din of the band's complex thundercrunch while a demonic vocodered thing screeches out a counterpoint. And near the end, Kelly growls out the most serious lyric on the whole record: \"Momma, don't let them drag her down/ Please tell Lucifer he can't have this one.\" And you remember something else the band has been saying in interviews. This isn't really the band's opus about astral travel or Rasputin or whatever; it's drummer and primary lyricist Brann Dailor's attempt to wrestle with his sister Skye's waytooearly death. If he has to conjure alternate universes to get there, it's easy to see why. And even at its most progtastic heights of absurdity, this band's wriggling thunder never falls apart. It just punches deeper when Mastodon drop their defenses. "}