{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13868/homepage_large.e708efa3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 11A: 1971","text":" Motown is 50 years old in 2009. January 21 marked the halfcentury anniversary of Marv Johnson's \"Come to Me\", the first single on Berry Gordy's Tamla label. Motown Record Corporation ceased to be an independent company in 1988, when Gordy sold it for $61 million, not a bad return on the initial $800 loan his family gave him to get started. To say it's been an eventful 50 years is an understatement, but nothing that's happened since 1972 can compete with the company's first 13 years in business in terms of commercial success, cultural impact, and overall artistic quality. Those 13 years coincide with Motown's time in its home city and namesake: Detroit. It's this period, from 1959 to 1972, that HipO Select's ultracomprehensive, beautifully packaged, and exhaustively annotated Complete Motown Singles series of boxed sets will ultimately cover when the final set is issued.Previously, most of the sets have encompassed a full year of output from Motown and its subsidiaries (the exception was Volume 1, which covered 19591961), but 1971, the label's last full year in Detroit, is represented by two fivedisc sets, discs 5665 in the series. It's an enormous amount of music, made slightly less substantial by the fact that many tracks, 57 in all, are doubled up in stereo promo versions or alternate mixes. One gets the sense from listening, reading, and perusing the tracklist that 1971 was a difficult year for Motown in many respects. Faced with a dramatically different pop landscape, a cumbersome operating structure split between Detroit and Los Angeles, the fading stars of some of its longtime marquee acts, and a lot more direct competition from other soul labels, Gordy's empire showed its first signs of decline, even as it prepared to expand into the movie business.In 1970, seven Motown songs topped the Billboard Hot 100. In 1971, only the Temptations' enduring classic \"Just My Imagination\" managed to hit #1, though many Motown releases topped the R&B chart. That song, a tender, startlingly intimate portrait of a man constructing an elaborate fantasy relationship with a woman he doesn't even know, was a throwback to the rich harmony sound the group had left behind in 1968, when producer Norman Whitfield cranked up the funk and took them on the psychedelic soul ride that made hits out of \"Cloud Nine\", \"I Can't Get Next to You\", \"Ball of Confusion\", and others. It was also the last song to feature founding members Eddie Kendricks, who went solo, and Paul Williams, who left the group because of poor health. Kendricks gave perhaps the best performance of his whole career to the song, which was backed on the Bside by \"You Make Your Own Heaven and Hell Right Here on Earth\", another swirling, psychedelic soul bomb.Whitfield and the Tempts' stylistic dip into the past serves as a sort of metaphor for much of the recycling that took place at Motown in 1971. Whitfield himself cut most of his songs with more than one artist, pulling out old tunes to rework, and scoring a hit with the Undisputed Truth's spooky redo of the Temptations album track \"Smiling Faces Sometimes\". The Truth were Whitfield's laboratory, where he worked on stretching the boundaries of his production style, practice that helped him create some of the label's most enduring tracks from the period. The recycling in other quarters of Motown was a little more basic, as Gordy and his Los Angeles crew tried to boost Diana Ross' stillprecarious solo career by digging up the Four Tops' \"Reach Out (I'll Be There)\". Radically reworked into a bombastic twopart suite, it hit the Top 30, but doesn't hold a candle to the Tops. Ross' best single in 1971 was \"Surrender\", a towering, cosmopolitan soul track that features very Supremeslike backing vocals. The most egregious example of the label raiding the past, though, was the Elgins' \"Heaven Must Have Sent You\", a leftover from 1966 that must have sounded awfully out of place in 1971, in spite of its quality.The biggest value of these sets is their unique ability to cast the biggest names and hits on Motown in their context among the flops and oddities that competed with them for attention. More than any set since 1964, this one is full of bizarre asides, shouldhavebeenhits, and historical curiosities. Rare Earth, Gordy's rockoriented subsidiary, had a busy release schedule, churning out mostly anodyne, easily forgotten album rock, but it was occasionally interesting. The band the label was named for, Rare Earth, scored big with the psychedelic funk track \"I Just Want to Celebrate\", which still sounds pretty great, while the Messengers' supercatchy powerpop number \"That's the Way a Woman Is\" deserved to place higher than #62 on the pop chart, and British act Brass Monkey turns in an interesting, proggedout cover of the Supremes' \"You Keep Me Hangin' On\" that owes more to the Vanilla Fudge version than it does to the original.Far more puzzling today are the true outliers on the set. Sammy Davis, Jr. and Berry Gordy cofounded the Ecology label specifically for Davis' future releases, but after one horrible flop the treacly, didactic \"In My Own Life Time\" the label quietly folded and the partnership ceased. Los Angeles DJ Tom Clay's weird collage \"What the World Needs Now Is Love/Abraham, Martin & John\" clobbers the listener over the head with the sounds of warfare, news reports about assassinations, and children talking trying to define words like prejudice. Clay's other offering, on Vol. 11B, is basically a songpoem, with its offkey vocal and inept songwriting. Dave Prince's \"The Greatest Man Who Ever Lived\" is a weird spokenword piece about Jesus on about the same par as Chuck Woolery's pre\"Love Connection\" travesty \"The Greatest Love Affair\".Other forgotten tracks fall more in the treasure category, none more so than Gordon Staples & the Motown Strings' \"Strung Out\". Gordon Staples was the concertmaster of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra and played a Stradivarius violin, but he was no classical music snob he lead numerous string sessions for labels all over Detroit, and you can hear him all over the Motown catalog. This wasn't so much his record, though, as it was longtime Motown arranger Paul Riser's. His charts use the sound of the orchestra tuning up to brilliant effect and features a heavy, sampleready groove courtesy of the Funk Brothers. Chuck Jackson's \"Pet Names\" showcases what a powerful, interesting singer he was, his gravelly voice soaring through a wickedly tough, syncopated melody. Hugh Masekela's Chisa label ended its association with Motown in the early 70s, but not before Masekela and his Union of South Africa released the supercharged Afrofunk burner \"Dyambo (Weary Day Is Over)\", which features a strange and inspired scat vocal from Caiphus Semenya, on which he imitates the sounds of scratching records and elephants and somehow makes the song better.Sammy Davis, Jr. wasn't the only old crooner to pass through Motown that year. Bobby Darin, who back in 1958 had cut a forgotten record on a song written by Berry Gordy, attempted to reinvent himself as a singer/songwriter near the end of his tooshort life, and his \"Simple Song of Freedom\" is a pleasant surprise it's not subtle at all, but it has an easy groove, and you can hear in his performance that Darin was finally doing what he wanted to on record. Brothers David and Jimmy Ruffin, who'd each had varying levels of success and were both more popular in Europe than in the U.S., cut a record together in 1971 called My Brother's Keeper, and their duo single \"Lo And Behold\" is an absolutely brilliant slice of gospel soul, with great unison singing and a long, languid melody.Perhaps one of the reasons this singles collection feels more scattered than most of its predecessors is that, like the rest of the music industry, Motown in 1971 was trying to transition to the era of the album. By far the label's greatest achievement in that arena in 1971 was Marvin Gaye's epochal masterpiece What's Going On. The missing question mark was intentional Marvin was telling you what was going on, not asking, and what he saw was a nation in turmoil, tied down in a senseless war, wasting its natural beauty, and ignoring poverty. Gordy resisted What's Going On for as long as he could, agreeing to release it only after Gaye threatened never to record again, and it was an instant landmark. The singles gathered here are surprising for casual Gaye fans who know only the LP. The title track appears in a drastically different (and inferior) mix from the album version, \"Mercy Mercy Me\" and \"Inner City Blues\" are understandably truncated to fit on 45s, and the Bside versions of \"Wholy Holy\" and \"God Is Love\" are prototypes of the album versions that use backing tracks from a session Marvin Gaye produced for the Originals. It's a fascinating glimpse at the process that led him to the final realization of his vision.While Marvin Gaye finally got the artistic freedom he desired and emerged with an enduring classic, Stevie Wonder, now an adult, offered a foreshadowing of the amazing run of albums he was about to create on the tender, aching ballad \"I Never Dreamed You'd Leave in Summer\" and the complex, jazzy \"If You Really Love Me\". As Stevie graduated onto an adult stage, Motown's other kid sensation, Michael Jackson, stepped out on his own for the first time, with the surprisingly adult \"Got to Be There\", on which he sings about complexities of sexual relationships he couldn't possibly have yet understood. Frankly, though, he still sounded a lot better in the company of his brothers, especially on the jawdropping \"Never Can Say Goodbye\", on which he sounds like a man spurned many times over, trapped in the body of a child, singing his guts out.There was still plenty of success in Motown's future after 1971, but over the course of these two sets, it becomes increasingly clear that things changed for good at Motown, and that the focused creative crucible and tight quality control that made the label such a dominant force in the 60s couldn't be recaptured. In spite of the changes, there was still plenty of excellent music here, and if you've been collecting these sets so far, you need these, too. As Motown celebrates 50 years of making music, it's fascinating and entertaining to revisit a time when it was still an active sculptor of the American cultural landscape and see how the shifting landscape shaped it in return. "}