{"label":" Gern Blandsten","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1277/homepage_large.4e4fa56d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Canyon","title":"Empty Rooms","text":" In the midtolate 80s, rebels from across the U.S. decided country music was the only pure reservoir of rock and roll left. Of course, straight renditions of Willie Nelson wouldn't do, so they went for the darker side, for Johnny Cash, taking the drunken outlaw rather than the church picnicker as their role model. Uncle Tupelo won some big victories, as did Whiskeytown. Now Canyon is taking their shot, and though they've accomplished a lot less than those two bands thus far, they have yet to implode, which gives them a big leg up as the competition continues to thin out. On their second album Empty Rooms, this elusive group infuses their country leanings with more exotic sounds, to the point where it sounds like they've forgotten the way to Nashville. Only the most hidebound purist would find this objectionable after hearing the best of the results, which find a way to balance disparate elements precariously enough that their lovely hybrid seems forever on the verge of collapse. The meticulously assembled guitars deserve full credit for this: When combined, they form a nuanced wall of sound that borders on feedback without ever crossing over. Instead of exploding like the Velvet Underground's axes might have done, Canyon lets their squall sit at a distance, like a storm cloud that can't decide whether to erupt or slink back over the horizon. \"Sleepwalker\", \"Head Above\", \"Blankets and Shields\", and possible Television allusion \"Magnetic Moon\" all achieve this queasy sense of foreboding, denying the release of climax and resolution. They develop tension and leave it there, and if Canyon gets credit for nothing else, they should be saluted for delving into perpetual tension, an underpopulated section of pop music's emotional spectrum. If justice prevails, this will not be the only thing that nets Canyon praise. Their sense of orchestration shows an admirable willingness to let vocals be swallowed up by other instruments; the lyrics are heavy on loss and alienation, but they let their music do the real talking, which is a bracing choice in this neverending age of Bonostyled rock prophets and inspirational speakers. The weariness and resignation comes through clearly enough, but it does so with an adult dose of ambiguity, knocking a phrase off balance with a drum fill or a growling amp. It's this kind of mystery that outlines the best moments on Empty Rooms. After such flashes of inspiration, it's understandably disappointing when Canyon lets up on the gas. When they're not diving headlong into unknown waters, they're busy cranking out straightforward country rock ballads whose lack of imagination isn't at all disguised by overt electronic froufrou. They still put a great deal of care into these songs, as the precision guitar rattle on \"Lights of Town\" shows, but these numbers aren't inherently exciting enough to compensate for their conventionality. There was a natural opening on Empty Rooms, for a comforting counterbalance to the reckless experimentation they had going, but Canyon fails to fill it, at least with any original style. These unearned anthems are a repeatedly embarrassing albatross, marring a steady, slowburner of an album, one you'd hardly expect to find sullied by impatience and secondguessing. "}