{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13870/homepage_large.ce53d281.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nigeria 70: The Definitive Story of 1970’s Funky Lagos","text":" Last year was a disorienting, somewhat disconnected time if you were looking for any kind of lucid pop music narrative, but one thing was for sure in 2008: All you had to do was wait a month or so, and you'd get the chance to hear yet another entry in an incredible influx of compilations, reissues, and revivals of the music of West Africa in the 1970s. There was Soundway's (so far) threepart Nigeria Special series, which gathered a bountiful collection of highlife, Afrobeat, funk, rock, and disco, and they followed it up with the eyeopening Sir Victor Uwaifo compilation Guitar Boy Superstar. Germany's freshlyminted Analog Africa label assembled a number of incredible highlife/funk/psych songs from Togo and Benin under the title African Scream Contest, then put together the staggering Orchestre PolyRhythmo de Cotonou highlight reel The Vodoun Effect: Funk and Sato from Benin's Obscure Label. And amidst all of this, Fela Kuti's son Seun reunited with his father's band Egypt 80 to record his debut fulllength Many Things, taking the Afrobeat revival one step further by creating one of the genre's best new records of the last 25 years. All that, and Strut's ceaselessly entertaining Nigeria 70: Lagos Jump, too that's a ridiculously bountiful collection of music.But even amidst all those releases,  Nigeria 70: Lagos Jump isn't an afterthought it is, after all, the followup to one of the most crucial Afrobeat comps, 2001's  Nigeria 70: The Definitive Story of 1970's Funky Lagos. The original  Nigeria 70 was released four years after Fela Kuti's death and in the midst of a renewed interest in Afrobeat Femi Kuti's Fight to Win enlisted Mos Def and Common in a hip hop crossover bid, and Antibalas was really starting to pick up steam so it served as one of the most contextually important collections of the genre as it stood in its original heyday. With this reissue, it still holds that status:  Nigeria 70 assembles a potent collection of names that were already famous among aficionados of African music (Fela; Tony Allen; King Sunny Ade), augments them with lesserknown musicians that those aficionados would also likely enjoy, and subsequently captures a crosssection of Nigerian culture that covers that country's adaptations of nearly everything that was going on in black music at the time.Nigeria 70 starts with Monomono's \"Loma Da Nigbehin\", where the groove is stepped up, the rhythm guitar emphasized, the percussion denser yet livelier, the horn and organ solos heavier all developments created in the wake of Fela's revolution in militant funk. Afrobeat in that familiar vein is widely covered here, both inside and outside of the Kalakuta Republic. Two of Fela's greatest Africa '70era recordings appear in \"Upside Down\" and \"Jeun Ko Ku (Chop 'n' Quench)\",  while Afrobeat's rhythmic architect and Africa '70 alumnus Tony Allen is represented by his glimmering 1980 recording \"No Discrimination\".  And many of the highlights from lessfamous musicians Peter King's \"Shango\"; Orlando Julius Ekemode's \"Alo Mi Alo\"; Afro Cult Foundation's \"The Quest\" take Kuti's sounds and tweak them playfully until they become a bit more concise or abstract.But what makes Nigeria 70  particularly compelling is its sonic diversity. Anyone expecting two and a half hours of music that sounds directly informed by Fela might be surprised to find out just how many musicians saw his music as a starting point than the sum of their sound. There's nods to psychedelic rock, both heavily fuzzedout (Ofo & the Black Company's stomping, wailing \"Allah Wakbarr\") and Deadheadfriendly mellow (BLO's eerily beautiful reverie \"Chant to Mother Earth\"). A few forays into the late 1970s and early 80s note a disco influence that informs cuts like Joni Haastrup's 1977 song \"Greetings\" and Shina Williams & His African Percussionists' 1984 electrofunk workout \"Agboju Logun\" without removing their Afrobeat backbone. And if you're wondering how ParliamentFunkadelic was received in Nigeria, William Onyeabor's 1978 antiimperialist synthesizer opus \"Better Change Your Mind\" is an intriguing hint. You could while away some time trying to figure out just how much or how little of it came from black music in America, and how much of black music in America actually owed to these sounds in the first place as crosscultural development of pop music goes, the Nigerian sound is fascinatingly tangled. And now, even after the West African reissue glut of 2008, Nigeria 70 still sounds illuminating. "}