{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13887/homepage_large.95df05ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Superchunk","title":"Leaves in the Gutter","text":" The last time Superchunk released a new studio album was Here's to Shutting Up, in 2001. They didn't shut up or break up; they just went into nearhibernation, playing the occasional show, releasing some live albums, and not doing much else. In the meantime, Mac McCaughan and Laura Ballance's label, Merge Records, has become a significantly bigger deal, and Portastatic has become McCaughan's main musical project, releasing four fulllength studio albums (as well as a pile of EPs and demo collections and a soundtrack).And now Superchunk are apparently in the early stages of preparing a new fulllength record, so their new fivetrack, foursong EP basically exists to clear out the material they've worked up for their intermittent live sets over the last eight years. (\"Misfits and Mistakes\", written for the Aqua Teen Hunger Force movie, turned up on a single in 2007.) It sounds exactly like what Superchunk were doing 15 years ago: McCaughan yellsinging those strained high notes of his, dualguitar solos, fast, heavy unambiguous rock. \"Learned to Surf\", which gets reprised in a casual acoustic version at the end, hints at perspective on the band's longevity and its dropping out of the indierock rat race\"I can't hold my breath anymore/ I stopped swimming and learned to surf,\" the chorus goes but you wouldn't know it by its meatandpotatoes arrangement.As always, McCaughan's songs are impeccably constructed, with clever bits of craftsmanship everywhere, from the gyroscopic riff that opens the disc to the way \"Knock Knock Knock\" builds up to its jumpshot of a chorus. The band's chemistry is untouched by time: They're still speedy, lockedin, and springchickeny. But even Superchunk once moved past what they were doing 15 years ago their last couple of albums preserved their instrumental voices but stretched them beyond headlong heaviness. This is a perfectly solid throwback by a band that's smart enough to know better.Before there was Superchunk, there was Wwax, a trio of McCaughan with Brian Walsby and Wayne Taylor, whose complete studio recordings, plus a live Saccharine Trust cover, are collected on the digitalonly Like It or Not. 1987 and 1988, when all of these songs were recorded, was a transitional moment in American independent rock, as young bands across the country were trying to figure out how to get past the formulae of punk and into something grimy enough that nobody could mistake it for mainstream pop.Wwax's sole fortheages song was the Aside of their first single, \"Pumpkin\", which is just about Superchunk straight out of the gate the hyper lead guitar, the steady flow of riffs that don't congeal into anything as straightforward as versechorusbridge, McCaughan pushing his voice as high as it will go without actually breaking. The songs his bandmates sing are less impressive. They've got a solid stomp to them, and they mess around with tempos and time signatures entertainingly, but a lot of them come off as slightly desperate stabs toward independence. \"Like It or Not\" and \"Straw Man\", in particular, keep toppling over into xonthehands 4/4 riffery, then crawling out again. It's a historically interesting album, rather than a good one; you can hear snatches of what would be coming out of North Carolina a few years later, but you can also hear Wwax falling into the potholes on the road toward it. "}