{"label":" Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13889/homepage_large.412c2598.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Beth Orton","title":"Trailer Park: Legacy Edition","text":" Believe it or not, Beth Orton originally wanted to name this album Winnebago, but of course, rights issues quickly squashed that idea. The title she ended up with, she remarked in a 1996 interview, ended up working just as well: \"Trailer Park conjures up the same kind of filmic American images, images of transience and dislocation... and funnily enough, when we shot the video for the first single (in an actual trailer park)... I had all these odd, rather desperate people coming up and giving me their entire lifestories in a second. Even though I didn't want them to.\" That image of Orton pitched as a new brand of British folkie shooing away actual \"folk\" while froufrouing up their surroundings to sell to upmarket downtempo audiences, is a good one to accompany Trailer Park. Certainly much more appropriate than the cover image they decided on: Orton in Chucks, for some reason plopped down in a parking lot.The disconnect between how Beth Orton was pitched to us and the way her music actually sounded was as vast as the barren landscape she fetishized. Instead of a lonesome troubadour traversing the desolate American West from carpark to carpark, Orton was a Norwichborn theatre chick who found herself in the midst of a rapidlychanging mid90s UK pop scene. William Orbit spotted her in a theatre production and tabbed her to lend her plush, lonesome vocals to the opening track of the third iteration of his Strange Cargo series in 1993 (he'd also produce the sincedisowned Japaneseonly  Superpinkymandy, technically her solo debut). From there, Orton fell in with an even higherprofile crowd: After closing out the Chemical Brothers' gamechanging 1995 debut on \"Alive Alone\", she was scooped up by Tom and Ed's buddy Jeff Barrett, and his Heavenly imprint (at the time, most known for Saint Etienne and Manic Street Preachers) set about casting Orton in her first starring role.While so many of the supporting cast has faded from immediate memory, Trailer Park holds up surprisingly well, and the remastered tracks still reward headphone scrutiny. Even more than a decade later, \"She Cries Your Name\" still sounds great, with Orbit's luxuriously gloomy string arrangement especially the way the cello's lowend signals the entrance of the chorus like stage curtains parting and the deft production hands of UK electronic scenester Andrew Weatherall and Bad Seeds' Victor Van Vugt providing the perfect context for Orton's cozy, impressionistic Americana sketches. Twelve or so years after I dismissed it as resolutely Lilithy I'm struck at how Orton's vocals on several of these tracks are much less Sarah McLachlan  than Zombies' Colin Blunstone, and how the best moments of Trailer Park find a similar middleground between spooky and reassuring.Another surprise: the triphop ripoffs hold up the best here, and reward the remaster the most. Granted, \"Tangent\" and \"Touch Me With Your Love\" wouldn't exist without Massive Attack and Portishead, and Orton's vocals are nowhere near the level of Shara Nelson or Beth Gibbons, but that wasn't the point, either. Those basslines and atmospherics (and \"Touch Me\"s spokenword) are jazz club and coffeeshop, not Jamaican dub or hiphop, and Orton wasn't only safe from harm, harm isn't even a consideration here she's on her way home, she's having short and happy dreams.   \"Galaxy of Emptiness\" is still over 10 minutes long, and still hopelessly romantic, and it still sounds as good in the background during dinner as it does on headphones after a few glasses of wine. Save the spliffs for Dummy and Blue Lines.But how great would it have been if \"I Wish I Never Saw the Sunshine\", Orton's cover of the Ronettes' wonderful, Spectorproduced original, would have seen the same sort of spacejazz reimagining, instead of the folky evisceration it got on Trailer Park? As much as the promotional campaign wanted to pitch Orton as a hollowbox singersongwriter, \"Sunshine\", \"Don't Need a Reason\", and the James Tayloresque \"Whenever\" remain the most generic and skippable tracks. Her Natalie Merchant side, however, retains its rewards in \"Sugar Boy\", \"Live as You Dream\", and the adorable \"Someone's Daughter\".Putting nostalgia aside, the main question to ask of the \"Legacy Edition\" of Trailer Park, as with any rerelease, is why? Aside from the obvious \"the CD industry is dying quickly, let's squeeze every last drop out of it,\" do you need the original, nine Bsides and a threesong 1997 EP (all for around $22)? If my instincts are correct, anyone who's read this far has still got the first version maybe it's packed away somewhere, maybe it's hidden on purpose or at least selected tracks compiled on random mixtapes. At least for an afternoon, especially while the spring is springing, save your cash and spend some time with the original artifacts. It just might surprise you, too. "}