{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13886/homepage_large.6d624a1f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Junior Boys","title":"Begone Dull Care","text":" Five years ago, Junior Boys Canadians with an eye on London's turnofthemillennium dancefloor innovations merged UK garage's sugary microprogramming with winsome synthpop hooks and melancholy vocals on their debut album, Last Exit. The record made electronically attuned critics gush, but unlike a lot of supposed crossovers, you could also imagine the Boys reaching a wider indie audience: Frontman/mastermind Jeremy Greenspan and thenpartner Johnny Dark learned well from their whitelabel heroes, while Greenspan's voice oozed a familiar strain of bedridden heartbreak. Yet Greenspan hesitantly distanced himself from comparisons to indie heartthrobs perhaps that's one reason why Last Exit failed to find the mass collegiate audience that turned the Postal Service into the 21stcentury's indiepop/electronic hybrid of choice. Junior Boys' sophomore LP, So This Is Goodbye, dropped two years later with a more traditional sound rooted in classy 1980s electrofunk, trading Last Exit's pinprick jolts of joy for the languid sadness of guys in sharp suits. Commercially, it seems to have been a canny move; a Carl Craig remix of \"Like a Child\" even brought an improbable Grammy nod. While So This Is Goodbye hardly troubled the Billboard Hot 100, it (deservedly) received some of the attention denied the acclaimed but underheard Last Exit. Listening to the new Begone Dull Care, it seems the more straightforward synthetic soul of So This Is Goodbye will remain the Boys' template for the foreseeable future. Lush, sometimes to the point of textural overload, Begone is audibly the work of band that's now been honing its chops for a decade. Whatever its budget, the album definitely sounds like the product of milliondollar multitracking. That's helpful when you're referencing an era where even cheap keyboards could put a dent in the fattest bankroll. And listeners might also need to cashin their pocket change for some swank studio gear if they want to fully enjoy Greenspan and partner Matt Didemus' delicately fussedover handclaps and scissored vox and lugubrious callandresponse synths. That's not to totally discount the duo's talent as tunesmiths even if \"Hazel\" is the only thing here that might survive being thrown to the wolves of pop radio but sometimes Greenspan and Didemus' attention to detail is the only thing that redeems the album's occasionally sketchy songwriting. At Begone's weakest, the tracks could be easily dismissed as slickly assembled bouts of pre and postrave deja vu. The Tangerineian arpeggiated basssynth pattern on \"Work\" is playedout, almost shticky, though the belllike melody adds an eerie touch. But this slightly unexpected nod to oldschool bleep techno bleakness, and Greenspan's latest turn as breathy dudediva, isn't quite enough to sell a sixminute song to anyone but überfans or audiophiles. Since I'm not much of an audiophile, but did consider myself an überfan, I kept waiting for \"Work\" (and several other songs) to punch something other than my nostalgia switch. In vain, as it turned out. So what's Begone's draw, especially for those of us who fell in love with the affecting futurefunk experiments of the Boys' early work? Well as mentioned above, it is hard not to marvel at how assured the Boys have grown as producers. The album's best tunes, like \"Bits and Pieces\", retain the mix of ennui and ebullience that marked early singles like \"Birthday\", but with minimalist restraint traded for so many perfectly placed period touches that you may have trouble picking out your favorite bit: Maybe it's the little glitchhiccup breakdown? Or the saxophone that slides in midtrack from softrock central casting? If Begone is repeatplay worthy, and I'd argue it is, it might be down to the Boys' evergrowing skill as arrangers. (\"Bits and Pieces\" combines maybe a dozen compositional elements without coming off like a claustrophobic cutandpaste exercise.) And they're not averse to the occasional sonic curveball. (Is that a banjo on the whimsical \"Dull To Pause\"?) Plus for all my grousing, it's hard to deny that the album's highgloss shine can occasionally be seductive in its own right, at least if you've got love for a certain brand of glitz. Which leads to my nagging worry about the trajectory the Boys seem to be following. The weaker tunes on Last Exit were carried by the incongruity of their component parts; you overlooked an undercooked melody, say, because the band had come up with such a compelling and unexpected hybrid. As Greenspan and Didemus have settled into a classicist groove, they're running a risk wellknown to their mid80s influences. It was a short trip from wellproduced woe into camp sterility, and wellregarded uptown aesthetes like the Blue Nile were always only a mixing board misstep from guys peddling digitized woodwinds for cocktail loungers. So when I call Begone Dull Care a \"mature\" album, know it skirts both the positive and negative connotations of one of the most divisive adjectives in pop's lexicon. "}