{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13901/homepage_large.aae79e5f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Ariel Pink's Haunted Graffiti","title":"Grandes Exitos","text":" In a Pitchfork review fourandahalf years old but still applicable, Nick Sylvester wrote that The Doldrums, Ariel Pink's first widely available album, \"can't contain Ariel Pink, and wasn't supposed to, and his next 500 CDRs will have the same problem. The songs are secondary to Pink's bourgeoning cult of personality the album turns its imperfections into selling points.\" What Nick and I disagreed over (and probably still would) is my pretty firm belief that Ariel Pink's music which sounds like 1960s janglepop, car commercials, and gauzy 80s ballads echoing inside a tin can is music whose imperfections actually are its selling point: Without them, it would sound like the sweatless work of studio hacks; with them, it sounds like a horrorshow.So why commend him? Because Ariel Pink has recorded the saddest music I've heard in the past several years. But wait, you're thinking, I already have all these records by the loneliest loners murmuring about the wintriest winters. To which I'll say that, in singing about the wintriest winters, the loneliest loners are fully aware of their sadness and are probably trying to resolve it, either through the act of making art, or through the community that their art might create. When you put a bunch of lonely loners standing in a room together, they might just get a glimpse at companionship.Conversely, Ariel Pink takes \"perfect,\" professional music and scours its perfect professionalism so ruthlessly that the product sounds solitary, disgraced, and pathetic. This isn't the sadness of the heartbroken teenager, but of Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights: Failure that doesn't recognize itself, or a goal debauched. If I sound high on my own poetry, take solace in the fact that I'm writing at the tip of the iceberg for my feelings on this music.Most of the music he's released since  The Doldrums was recorded before 2004 (a fact that felt a little opportunistic in 2006 and a little disturbing now that it's 2009). In a way, Nick S. turned out to be right: Ariel Pink capitalized on his myth as a lunatic hermit by flooding the market with whatever he had in his closet without ever having to develop  that persona with an audience watching.In light of all this, I find it riddling and weird that the twodisc Grandes Exitos \"Greatest Hits,\" for our gringo readers is a touronly release, when it could arguably serve as one of his only official releases. It's a solid and decently assembled set that highlights some of his most enchanting pop (the nocturnal, yearning \"For Kate I Wait\", the shuffling \"Life in L.A.\", [\"The weather is your boyfriend/ On a Saturday, stay in bed\"], \"Every Night I Die at Miyagis\") and some of his most inane (\"Immune To Emotion\" was funnier and more heartbreaking when he didn't spell it out, \"Credit\" which sounds a lot like Weird Al but probably wouldn't tickle even the most 12yearold 12 year old).None of his CDRs have reached the same highs lows? as The Doldrums, but they've had enough decent material on them to make Grandes Exitos fully listenable from start to finish (which I can't say about all his albums). Whether or not you'll like it is something I can't predict Ariel Pink, to his credit and damnation, is still a guy who most would probably rate as an interstellar genius or bullshit artist (or try really, really hard to see him as a little bit of both).I'm making an effort to be fair when I say I think there's enough merit and magic on this collection or  The Doldrums to suggest that you listen without wondering whether he's a spoonfed artschool brat or a sniffling pothead or a mentally fragile Californian or, very possibly, all of those things. I'm making an effort to suggest you listen without wondering whether he \"really means it or not,\" or, if you do  wonder, to consider what \"it\" refers to. If you want to know if Ariel Pink is direct, well, he's not. A halferased, yowling song called \"Good Kids Make Bad Grownups\" just doesn't parse as cleanly as a rockin' song called \"Rock and Roll All Nite\". With Ariel Pink, the feeling is conveyed in the sound that frays around him. Call him a phony if you want, but he's a phony all his own. "}