{"label":" Polydor / Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13896/homepage_large.c3208444.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Monks","title":"Black Monk Time","text":" Alright, my name's GaryLet's go, it's beat time, it's hop time, it's monk time!On paper, it's hard to imagine a couplet that looks less like an opener for one of the best albums of the 1960s. When you hear it barked out by Monks lead vocalist Gary Burger over an otherworldly groove, though, it's an unlikely call to arms, and an immediate auditory stamp for one of the most strikingly original bands of the mid60s. The band's sole studio album, released only in Germany in March 1966, has since become something of a legend, hailed as a precursor to punk and krautrock, and exerting influence far beyond its modest initial sales. Obscurities that routinely bathe in glowing praise naturally engender skepticism among people who haven't yet heard them, and often that skepticism is healthy. In the case of the Monks, though, all the praise is true: in 1966, Black Monk Time was beyond the cutting edge, and today it's easy to hear what made it so innovative and challenging.The Monks were five Americans living in West Germany. They came there as G.I.s, stationed near Heidelberg in the southwestern BadenWürttemberg region, and the Monks began life inauspiciously as the 5 Torquays, a runofthemill beat group that covered Chuck Berry and the latest English groups, drawing good local crowds. When their time in the Army was up, they stayed, but beneath the conventional exterior of the Torquays lay a group hungry to experiment and break the mold of beat music. They accidentally discovered guitar feedback during a rehearsal, and made it a part of their sound, to the dismay of club owners and some patrons. Their apparent willingness to experiment brought them to the attention of two German ad executives, Walther Niemann and Karl Remy, who the band took on as managers, and who would fundamentally reshape the band's image and sound.You know we don't like the ArmyWhat army?Who cares what army?Why do you kill all those kids over there in Vietnam?Mad Viet Cong!My brother died in VietnamJames Bond, who was he?Stop it, stop it, I don't like it!It's too loud for my ears!It's this sequence of lines from \"Monk Time\" that drives home just what a different game  Black Monk Time is. After his call to arms, Burger's demented vocal runs through a whithering critique of war, sealing it with a curt dismissal of James Bond, who at the time was the biggest movie hero in the world. It not only decries violence, but the glorification and fetishization of violence, and Larry Clark's brutal organ interjection is waved off with a couplet that swiftly coopts critics of the band's new, chaotic sound. One of the things that makes \"Monk Time\" one of the alltime great album openers is how completely it distills the band and its music. The stomping, repetitive bass and drum groove, the splatter of fuzz guitar, the sixstring electric banjo hammering out percussive chords, the flailing vocals and loud organ outbursts exemplify the band's confrontational, rhythmbased sound. This is not flower power it's rage inspired by senselessness and tempered with humor.Perhaps paradoxically, what makes the Monks' attack on war and the military so effective is the military discipline they applied to the band. On stage and off, they wore monks' robes with noose neck ties and cut their hair in the traditional monks' tonsure, and their music has a rare precision for something so wild. The group shouts of \"Shut up! Don't cry!\" on \"Shut Up\" are in lockstep, and they nail the complex, interlocking rhythm of \"Complication.\" All the members sang, and the backing vocals alternately back Burger with drawnout chants and sudden, shouted responses. \"HiggleDy PiggleDy\" combines a children's rhyme with a savage rhythmic attack.As doggedly outthere as they could be, the Monks did possess some pop sense this music, unique and strange as it is, is entirely approachable, and the band's final recordings, made after Polygram panicked and told them to produce more commercial material, are deranged pop songs that the band genuinely seems to have fun with. \"I Can't Get Over You\" is like a cartoon version of pop music, with weird falsetto harmonies and a big, rubbery bassline, while \"He Went Down to the Sea\" has a tribal Beach Boys quality, with its hard drumming, harmonies and glockenspiel. These and a few others are added to Light in the Attic's reissue of the album, as they were to Infinite Zero's long outofprint 1994 reissue.On the other side of the band's brief career, The Early Years is a collection of the band's early demos, made as they felt their way toward the sound of Black Monk Time, along with a 45 made in 1964 when they were still the Torquays. It has a different running order, but contains the same tracks as Omplatten's outofprint Five Upstart Americans compilation from 1999. LiTA's two reissues are meant to function as a combined package, and Kevin \"Sipreano\" Howes' detailed liner notes are written as one piece, split across both discs. The material heard here is good, though anyone new to the Monks should probably make sure they love Black Monk Time before picking it up, the same way you would with any band's demos. One of the interesting things about the demos is how clearly the band's vision had already crystalized the recording is structured something like a musical mass, with little churchy organ interludes from Larry Clark and a bit of banter from Burger. For a fan, to hear them honing their rhythmic attack is gratifying their sound was no accident.The Monks' music sounds so inevitable on Black Monk Time that it's easy to forget how unlikely the band's story is. For these five guys to find each other in the Army and subsequently devote themselves so fully to such a unique sound, and for two advertising executives to find them and push them to get weirder well, there's a reason that even with every incredible change in popular music during the 60s, there's only one Monks. Their one album was revolutionary, but sparked no revolution, due to circumstances beyond the band's control. They wandered back home and got real jobs, played in other bands, and Burger even became mayor of Turtle River, Minnesota. All these years later, you have a chance to hear what they did together again. Don't miss out. "}