{"label":" Guided By Voices, Inc.","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13910/homepage_large.bdc74df7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Boston Spaceships","title":"The Planets Are Blasted","text":" Drinking buddies, wellwishers, and penpals Bob Pollard's got in droves; what the guy needs is a band. The best of the records Pollard helmed under the Guided by Voices name in the mid1990s were laid down wherever an outlet could be found by Pollard and a fairly tight crew of fourtracking cronies. Although they'd have plenty of successes after the postUnder the Bushes dissolution of the band's \"classic\" lineup, that core of Pollard, Tobin Sprout, Mitch Mitchell, and Kevin Fennell is still Bob's band to beat. Sure, these days Pollard's got as many musical pseudonyms as he's got auxiliary recycling bins the Circus Devils, the Takeovers, this new Cosmos thing with Richard Davies, to name but a few and his frequent collaborations with producer and multiinstrumentalist Todd Tobias is as close to a working relationship as any Pollard's had over the years. But fans knew something was up when Pollard took the Spaceships out for their maiden voyage last fall, following the release of their stellar debut, Brown Submarine, announcing all the while to anyone sober enough to remember that its followup was already in the can. It's clear the Boston Spaceships is Pollard's new band, not just another project. It's clearer still, after a couple records in less than six months' time, that the man's pretty okay with that.As he should be. Brown Submarine was, until recently, the single finest LP Pollard's been associated with since the dissolution of Guided by Voices in the middle of this decade. Now but only by a nose The Planets Are Blasted has staked its claim on that increasingly less dubious title. The breezy Brown Submarine brimmed with hooks and neat little instrumental flourishes and, most important, vitality. Picking up where that record let off, The Planets Are Blasted most often than not just rips, opting for a slurry Zeppeliny stomp even at the expense of some of its predecessor's catchiness. To my ears, Pollard hasn't put out a good ol' drinking record like this one in forever: heady, quick to inspire the raising of glasses, with complexities that linger far after the initial buzz wears off.It certainly doesn't hurt that Pollard's once again brought nothing but good stuff to the party. There was hardly a song worth saving on January's miserable solo LP The Crawling Distance, but Pollard's just piling 'em on here, matching bouncy verse with tensionbuilding prechorus to fistpumping tagline in nearly every song. What could've been a trio of memorable little oneminute ditties at the back end of Alien Lanes become knotty, breathless threeminute barnstormers on The Planets Are Blasted; take, for example, the fantastic \"Tattoo Mission\", which matches a beery groove of a verse or two into a swirling Slusarenkoarranged string hook that positively explodes into sweetly symphonic pop through its last minute. Too often, Pollard's recent tunes are lucky to get two out of the three right, but here, even the weak spots seem to carry their weight, propelled by some of the most engagedsounding Pollard vocal performances in memory.More credit must be given to drummer John Moen and particularly guitarist/bassist Chris Slusarenko, who helped buoy Brown Submarine and keep  Planets Are Blasted moving everskyward. Moen's just got more to play with here than he did on the fairly straightforward Submarine songs, and his burly tromping keep the big moments pumping through your chest long after they're over. But it's Slusarenko who's really got Pollard's number, filling in the blanks in the tunes with punchy bass work and noteperfect guitar stabs. Instrumentally, Pollard's solo work all too often zigs when it seems stupid not to zag. But Slursarenko seems to have a clear sense of how best to serve the songs, and when to get the hell out of the way. Even a relative lowlight like \"Catherine From MidOctober\", which suffers from the same dowdy structural bloat as a lot of Pollard's 00s cuts, manages just finen thanks in no small part to Slusarenko's steady hand.There's a passage in \"Sight on Sight\" where the slightly distended thump the song eases into after minute one slides into a sprightly acoustic guitar line that eventually settles into another, better tune. That moment right there is in many ways the perfect distillation of what makes these Spaceships work; Pollard's operating in the mode he's always been best in (Bee Thousand is made up of transitions, after all) and sounding better than he has in years, with a couple of guys behind him who seem to understand what fits and what doesn't. In many ways, Pollard's still Pollard lyrically inscrutable, as generous with hooks as he is with bewildering sonic leftturns, and probably slightly mad but the Pollard who made the Planets Are Blasted sounds a lot more like the guy still blowing Dayton School District paychecks on beer and Maxells some 15 years back than whoever it was who laid The Crawling Distance on us. And, if the guys making the racket behind him might not be Mitch and Kevin and Toby, they're doing a better job of it than anybody who's come along since. Robert Pollard needs a band, and we oughta be awfully glad he's settled on this one. "}