{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13907/homepage_large.73af201f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Bob Mould","title":"Life and Times","text":" Bob Mould made his name laying his emotions bare, and it's a trait that's not only stayed with him throughout his 30year career, but one that perhaps has become even more pronounced. The same holds true for altlegend Mould's level of selfawareness, which, too, has grown more and more pronounced as his influence continues to seep through every level of the indie strata.\"There's sort of a traditional sound I have,\" he admitted to me a year ago. \"It's singer/songwriter playing mostly electric guitar, writing linear songs that are fairly catchy, and fairly emotionally introspective. Anything that goes too far off of that is a challenge for some fans. Then there are the fans that unconditionally listen to what I do. Having said that, one of the things I've been curious about is that there seems to be this other group of people for whom I'm damned if I do anything, that if I'm not doing free jazz, I'm not progressing.\"Needless to say, Life and Times, Mould's ninth solo album, does not mark a free jazz transformation, nor does the disc represent much musical progress at all, per se. Maybe that's for the best, since the closest Mould has come to anything close to \"progress,\" as such, is his divisive foray into dance/rock fusion, Modulate. Yet time marches on, and no matter what the songs themselves may sound like, Mould in 2009 is a much different person from the Mould who helped merge hardcore intensity with pop.That's a different sort of progress, but one worth acknowledging all the same, as never before has Mould seemed this comfortable with his status as one of the progenitors of a sound adopted and adapted by everyone from Pixies and the Foo Fighters to the Hold Steady and No Age. While it would be unfair to saddle Mould with the same ol' \"best album since...\" cross, Life and Times does manage to reflect each facet of Mould's career, from his punk roots through his current electronic leanings. In fact, from its melodies to its sheen, the album represent Mould at his most Sugary, the disc's easily digestible powerpop fueled by overdriven guitars and breakup regrets yet tempered by Mould's ruminative vocals.Most importantly, Life and Times offers hook after giant hook. Not that Mould seems particularly settled on the opener and title track in the song, the conflict isn't just romantic rejection but the more complex challenge of embracing love at the risk of inviting future hurt. Uncertainty similarly simmers beneath the surface of \"The Breach\" or the illustratively titled ballad \"I'm Sorry, Baby, But You Can't Stand in My Light Any More\", but even with the latter, there's an implied light at the end of the tunnel.\"I always find the broken ones/what does this say about me?\" Mould sings, the realization offering the possibility of rehabilitation and, ultimately, reconciliation in the midst of an album scented with love gone sour. You root for Mould to pull through, too. Earlier in his life, Mould often responded to inner conflict by lashing out, but here he instead reaches out, with the inviting jangle of \"City Lights (Days Go By)\" and even on the bitter \"Bad Blood Better\", pulling us closer than ever into his subconscious. The guy still needs a hug, but more than ever before he sounds like a guy open to giving one back in return.Yet accessibility never overshadows Mould's innate qualities. Indeed, dozens of acts could pull off a poppunk squall like \"Argos\", \"Spiraling Down\", or \"MM 17\", but only Bob Mould sounds like Bob Mould when he contemplates \"the taste of last night's sex in my mouth.\" Later, when he peels off a blitzkrieg solo on \"Wasted World\" it's like hearing decades of punk history come washing out of the speakers like a wave. In the past that racket would have pushed you away. The Mould of Life and Times, on the other hand, has arms outstretched. It's a contemplative work setting the stage for Mould's upcoming memoir, whose hooks will for once have to connect without the almost comforting bark of his vocals or buzz of his guitar behind them. "}