{"label":" IAMSOUND","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13923/homepage_large.c96f15cc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Telepathe","title":"Dance Mother","text":" Melissa Livaudais and Busy Ganges' stock has been rising for a year or so now. On the strength of singles \"I Can't Stand It\" and \"Chrome's on It\", which display the two distinct sides of their increasingly synthheavy avantpop approach, the Brooklyn duo comprising Telepathe has generated a good amount of buzz. Pick up a copy of any selfrespecting culture rag and there's likely to be a frontofbook profile featuring the girls looking ultra cool in chunky sunglasses and designer hoodies. It stands to reason that their first proper LP, the David Sitekproduced Dance Mother, could certainly capitalize on such attention.But not everyone's convinced. Ask a friend who's caught Telepathe live and he'll tell you what an aggravating experience it is, that the band's lackadaisical stage performance borders on disinterest not only for their audience but also their own material. And there are questions of musicianship: Ganges and Livaudais share an unschooled, tinny vocal presence and don't appear to be masters of, y'know, instruments and stuff. While those aren't clear reasons to discount a group (good ideas should certainly trump chops), they do raise issues about whether or not Telepathe are skating by on style, geographical allure (Brooklyn, Bushwick, whatever), or musical associations.Bobbling an opportunity to prove the band's merit once and for all, Dance Mother leaves many of these questions unanswered. The album's most obvious problem is that its two best cuts the abovementioned singles are those fans are already familiar with. All rapidfire bass and squiggly synths, \"Chrome's On It\" is an accomplished indieelectro reimagining of the standard hiphop radio banger, but if you picked up the 2008 EP of the same name chances are you've worn it out already. \"Can't Stand It\", meanwhile, gets a spitshine courtesy of Sitek here, adding depth and polish to the scratchier version that appeared on Rare Book Room's Living Bridge compilation. No less gorgeous than before, it doesn't quite take the place of a brandnew track of equal quality.Take the repeats out of the equation and you're left with a decidedly mixed bag; just a few of Dance Mother's newbies manage to rival their older siblings' success. The futuristic lovelost ballad \"In Your Line\" is one such standout. Over TV on the Radio member Sitek's arrangement (which brings to mind the lovely, underappreciated \"Family Tree\" from his fulltime band's most recent LP) of tribal handdrums, swirling guitars, and crashing cymbals, Livaudais and Ganges examine past relationships, realizing they miss their exes (perhaps each other the band was once a couple) more than they'd care to admit. \"It never meant that much to me... So where did it go? I think I lost it in my heart,\" they sing in tandem. With its skittering beats and lunar synths, \"Michael\" is another track that sounds great pouring out of your headphones. One can't help but wonder, though, if the credit for a song like this, where the appeal lies mostly in the production, should go to Sitek instead of Telepathe. Since the record was a collaborative affair, it's hard to say for sure. But part of what makes me dubious is the lyrical missteps that appear elsewhere on the album. Headscratchingly opaque and sometimes just plain bad, the girls' lyrics often do serious damage to a few otherwise decent songs. Sometimes they sound like stoners swapping Lost theories: \"Handpainted the orchid, because we have a secondrate sun,\" they chant out of nowhere in \"Devil's Trident\". Other times it's like Def Poetry Jam: Bushwick up in here: \"Only givers give a hint of the hunt! Fill it up with a pound of gold!\" they exclaim, spokenword style in \"Lights Go Down\".Moments like these make Dance Mother an uneven, sometimes puzzling listen. In many ways the record contradicts itself: It features a song I could enjoy for years to come (\"Can't Stand It\") and others I'd be fine with never hearing again. Flashes of real beauty and sonic adventurousness split time with stuff that seems outright dumb. So it's hard to say what happens to Telepathe from here besides, surely, a few more glossy photo spreads. Are they a flashinthepan case of style over substance or electroindie savants working towards finding their footing on a mindblowing sophomore LP? I certainly hope it's the latter, but this album offers no real clues in either direction, so I honestly couldn't tell you. "}