{"label":" Faith and Industry","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1281/homepage_large.fa33460d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Capitol K","title":"Happy Happy","text":" Take off your indie goggles and look around: We are surrounded by a million lappop artists, a billion of their halfassed records, and two billion of their mostly terrible live performances. No matter how great something sounds on record, we still want to see something happen when we go to concerts. We want to be entertained, and we want an experience beyond what the record already offers. Rock stars have it easy: They do a couple kicks once or twice in the middle of a sweet riff, or they tear off their tshirt with their teeth and bam instant respect from the crowd. But laptopbased acts have to go the extra mile to keep the audience engaged. Matmos have done it well their Chance to Cut routine involved a live video feed of MC Schmidt drilling himself with an acupuncture needle while Drew Daniel manipulated sound in real time. Many other acts offer elaborate visual projection to bolster their show's energy. But if you don't have the cash to throw down for a projector, there's one other way a solo lappop act can up his stage cred: Get more people up on stage and play some live instruments. Manitoba did it for his Up in Flames shows in 2003, and now tourmate Kristian Craig Robinson (Capitol K) has followed suit. Robinson's third album, Happy Happy, carries that live band dynamic into the studio, adding his lycanthropic protege Patrick Wolf to the mix, along with drummer Adam Stringer, Jo Apps on bass, synths and covocals, and the heady Leafcutter John Burton on guitar and laptops. Robinson still handles most of the vocals and provides the songs their typically unpredictable IDM backbones. But if the new approach lends Happy Hour a sense of cohesion, it surprisingly lacks energy. As if purposefully contrasting his old sound with his new one, Robinson performs Happy Happy's first four songs by himself. Opener \"Love in Slow Motion\" is the best of this bunch, its glitchedout, guitarled rock drive successfully mining the same territory as Lali Puna's Faking the Books, though without that record's sense of restraint. However, Robinson butchers the title track another solo effort with an irritating \"Happy! Happy!\" that aims to sound like The Stone Roses but ends up more like Weird Al. Robinson is joined by his collaborators on \"New York\", which rides its jambandy undercurrent with occasional recourse to synthy Cureisms, as Leafcutter John riffs his way through the halfbaked slosh. The beginning of \"Glorious\" falls into the same rut with a \"made to sound live\" production that begs for Phish bootleg comparisons and beadinhemp necklaces from Pac Sun. The song then takes a sharp turn into the triphop mezzanine, pimping a dark and slinky bassline reminiscent of Chris Corner's production work with Sneaker Pimps. Unfortunately, triphop is clearly not Capitol K's \"thing\": \"Revolution\" may be the worst song I've ever heard. Two songs on Happy Happy are so good, so full of life, that you have to wonder what went wrong with the others. The dark piano melody and female swoons that haunt the synthpopped \"Tiger\" eventually give way to a truly inspired Gainsbourg groove, one punctured by Kristian and Jo Apps' doodoodoo syncope across the pan. And \"Prayer for Peace\" is Happy Happy's hot metal Doberman, sporting Leafcutter's cyborg guitar rant and a wild dub groove complete with flute flutters and lumbering octaves in the low end. Both songs work because they are, if you will, \"band songs\": Capitol K The Band is not so forcedly trying to bulk up the laptopbased compositions of Capitol K The One Guy. The Band is playing to its own strengths here, and, for what it's worth, maybe Robinson's laptop experiments would be best left for postproduction. "}