{"label":" ","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13915/homepage_large.2322e1e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Metric","title":"Fantasies","text":" It's been close to four years since Emily Haines' Metric released a new album their 2007 effort was actually just the longdelayed release of their shelved 2001 debut. In the meantime, Broken Social Scenester Haines, the babyvoiced heart and soul of the band, recorded and released an intimate solo album and its companion EP. Those solemn, torch songlike collections stripped her of Metric's new wave gloss, exposing raw nerves and more seasoned vocals. Guitarist James Shaw toured with BSS, allowing him to stretch his riffs beyond Metric's rudimentary pop chug. (He also expanded his sonic palette by producing the Lovely Feathers' debut.) And Metric's rhythm section became Bang Lime, a dancey postpunk duo that picked up where Metric left off on Live It Out, leaving behind keyboards to mine rock riffage from candycoated confections. So when the foursome finally reunited last year, they had grown beyond the charming borders of their pop sound, and their fourth album is all the better for it.Though Shaw's more nuanced guitars have supplanted synthesizers as the focal instrument, the change in aesthetic still seems credited to Haines. The newfound vulnerability and gravitas she explored on her solo work has found its way onto Fantasies, though instead of dark, deathobsessed sentiments, there is a dreamy quality here that eschews the vague, easy rhymes and lyrical polemics of past Metric records in favor of romance and sex.Metric are often compared to fellow BSS satellite Stars, but while that band's Amy Millan and Torquil Campbell get soggy on their slower moments, Haines embraces more personal sentiments on ballads \"Blindness\" and \"Collect Call\", whose strippeddown, twinkly arrangements keep Metric's glam side intact yet cut the inessential sugar and bombast. Further embracing their moody, minimal instincts on \"Twilight Galaxy\" created one of Fantasies' standouts.In the end however, Fantasies' other crowdpleasers are, unsurprisingly, songs with big hooks, bursting choruses, and slick synths \"Help I'm Alive\" and \"Sick Muse\". The story here though is the album's simmering, intimate moments and despite the fanbasebuilding qualities of their newwave past, the more the group embraces an inky, ambient future, the better it  could get. "}