{"label":" Phthalo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13918/homepage_large.8eeb9097.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Dntel","title":"Early Works for Me If It Works For You II","text":" Before the Postal Service grew from a charming side project into an omnipresent harbinger of indierock's growing commercial profile, there was a kid playing bass for a band called Strictly Ballroom while recording techno in his dorm room under the name Dntel. Jimmy Tamborello's solo electronic project wouldn't make much noise until his third record, Life Is Full of Possibilities, released in 2001 when hiring indie singers to vocalize over electronic compositions was a novel idea. Still, it wasn't just the vocal tracks that held Tamborello's breakthrough album together. Early Works For Me If It Works For You II compiles his first two albums on the Phthalo label with some heretofore unreleased material from around the time of his third. Much of the setstands in the long shadow cast by Warp Records' 90s roster, and Tamborello isn't shy about admitting that. But it also contains early experiments with the chilly but affecting instrumentals that filled in the cracks between Tamborello's more infamous collaborations, and it holds up better than you might think.The material goes all the way back to 1994 and up through the early 00s, covering a fertile time for amateur electronic composers. Recorded in 1994, but released by Phthalo in 2001, Something Always Goes Wrong finds Tamborello just beginnging to flex his limbs. The distorted, nonrepeating drum work throughout showed a love for Aphex Twin and uziq, but is never quite as intricate or sophisticated as either of those producer's work. \"In Which Our Hero Finds a Faithful Sidekick\" rides its breakbeats and yawning bass towards a vague and familiar spymovie feeling, and while the 8bitsounding effects are a lot more conspicuous here than on Dntel's later records, the stretch from \"In Which Our Hero Is Put Under a Spell\" to \"...Frees the Damsel in Distress\" develops the slow and swooning vibe Tamborello explored much more fully in the near future. In contrast to his heroes, Tamborello's style was more cautious and uncluttered, making the most from his nascent ability.While Something was Dntel's earliest material, Early Works For Me If It Works For You was his first release. From the first track on, Early Works... displayed bolder, faster, and more intricate drum patterns. Tamborello was getting better at emulating his influences, but something else was happening, too he often dips his toes into textures he'd later grow more comfortable with, like a hurdygurdylike tone that sounds more like live instrumentation and a brief vocal sample on \"Fort Instructions\". You can also hear much of the melancholy keys and surging, almost soothing white noise that made his breakthrough, Life Is Full of Possibilities, so distinct. \"Casuals\" blends all these elements together equally: A vocal sample is even almost audible over an insistent, repetitious drum pattern and a melancholy melody, but all of it is washedout and obscured by crackling distortion. It felt a little more slippery in terms of genre, but it also tapped a desolate, yet romantic emotional core.The third disc is the one being touted as Early Works For Me If It Works For You II, even though much of it supplements Life Is Full of Possibilities, and would make more sense alongside that record.With titles like \"New Name\" and \"Incomplete 1\" (or its three counterparts), you can tell some of these are sketches, but they already feel like there's a more developed artist is behind them as they quickly establish a mood and tone. There's more R&B influence between the coughs and hiccups of percussion in \"Incomplete 4\" or \"Mini\", and there's more live instrumentation, like the acoustic guitar that takes the foreground on \"Paul Guitar\". Were Dntel's third album ever to receive the typically lavish and usually necessary reissue treatment so many albums do these days, this material would have made for a worthy bonus disc, showing peeks at his process, featuring castaways worth revisiting, and offering hints towards his future.It's worth noting that Early Works for Me II is a pretty lavish physical package in its own right, and remains plenty memorable for having little to no vocal guests.Tamborello's pretty clearly indebted to the standard bearers of IDM, but along the way he made sense of his past and his current passions to come up with something that is, if not totally unique, distinctly his own. This compilation can be uneven, and the journey is maybe more interesting than it is enjoyable at times. But Early Works for Me II is assembled to be a journey, from end to end, and it plays like one. "}