{"label":" Full Frame","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1283/homepage_large.712af723.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Capitol Years","title":"Meet Yr Acres","text":" Call me oldfashioned, but I'm a big fan of traditional English. I don't mean Shakespearean Middle English or even the formal English used in legal documents and treaties; I'm talking about simple syntax and spelling, and at the very least, some sort of shadow of grammar. Of course, I'm not perfect myself I use sentence fragments all the time in my own reviews but I usually try, anyway. I guess it's just a byproduct of our age and imperfect educational system that a lot of people simply don't write very well. People either haven't learned how to write correctly, or just don't take the time to check themselves. I get dozens of emails each week that don't even begin to resemble popularly accepted grammatical structures hell, just look at the angriest responses in our reader mail section for a veritable museum of mangled usage. All of this fogeyish complaining stems from reading the title of this album, the debut from the Capitol Years. Confession: it doesn't make a damn bit of difference whether or not this guy spells the title of his album Meet Your Acres or Meet Yr Acres, but I'll be honest and say that it just bugs the crap out of me. I lay the blame for all this sansvowel spelling of \"your\" on Sonic Youth, who probably weren't the first to use it, but definitely helped popularized it in the underground during the 80s. Lest I waste any more of your time with my obsessive rambling, though, let's have a look at the record. First, let's mention that the Capitol Years isn't a band. Rather, it's a Philadelphia man who calls himself Shai, Son of Eli. You can make your own judgment about that. He variously gives himself credit for each of the instruments heard on the record, placing his name several times over a series of photos of adorable horses it's actually pretty endearing. Shai also shares recording and mixing credits with Thom Monahan of Pernice Brothers fame, which gives him something close to autocratic control over the making of the entire record. Of course, it takes a remarkable brand of artist to make a truly great recording with little to no outside aid, and let's just say that Shai isn't quite there yet. Based on the evidence presented here, he may get there someday soon, but all this album shows is a promising talent still in its infancy. Shai and Monahan have managed to make the album sound excellent, and the songs flow together pretty well on the whole. The meat of any rock record has to be in the songs, though, and while it all may sound great, most of the songs Shai has cooked up here aren't really that amazing, though not for lack of trying. Songs like \"May\" and \"Sitar Fixer\" develop unexpectedly away from their basic rock premises into more dissonant territory, while \"Faces and Beer\" is a highlight with its waltz beat and cleanly strummed guitars. \"Faces and Beer\" contains one of the album's best melodies, and Shai delivers it ably, harmonizing with himself and keeping the feel laid back. It's nice, but the problem is that it doesn't really go much of anywhere. It's verse after verse after verse, and it doesn't have a strong enough chorus to justify the lack of other sections. \"Siamese Suns\" is somewhat similar in structure, but includes an acoustic guitar part that nicely answers the understated verse melody. It's actually somewhat close to Elliott Smith's Kill Rock Stars output, with a quiet grace that suits Shai as a performer quite well. \"Rolling Hills\" follows with a similarly pastoral vibe, though it's locked into a more standard rock groove. The processed vocals in the chorus, which consists solely of the lyric \"come on, come down,\" resembles Mark Linkous playing it straight, while the massed Shais that echo the line in the background sort of sound like they wandered off from Mott the Hoople's \"All the Young Dudes\" sessions. The album's folkinflected midsection is definitely its best swath, and the other sections that surround it are plagued by a kind of facelessness that keep them from sticking. \"Roller's Row\" opens things with offkilter harmonies and a restrained rock feel that sort of resembles the Shazam with a lot less personality, while \"Here Comes...\" makes employ of that distorted Sparklehorse vocal sound to little effect. It's the kind of thing that could be great if the writing were more consistently memorable. The harmonica solo at the end adds a good texture, but nothing substantial musically. Then there's the aforementioned \"Sitar Fixer,\" which begins over strummed acoustic guitar with a repetitive melody before a tuneless, heavily distorted guitar invades things and the drums come way up in the mix, playing a disjointed beat. It's unexpected and even kind of interesting, but it doesn't seem to serve much of a purpose the song doesn't build to its ending naturally, and once the dissonant section does arrive, it's not developed beyond a short, repeated passage. On the other end of the album, \"What's Yr Problem?\" is a fairly inconsequential instrumental featuring layered guitars over a programmed beat. It functions well as a textural exercise, but as a piece of music it's aimless. This brings us to the closer, a faithfully rendered cover of the Velvet Underground's \"All Tomorrow's Parties.\" It feels considerably folkier in his hands, given that he uses predominantly acoustic instrumentation, and even if he can't spell \"your,\" his pronunciation is certainly better than Nico's. All in all, though, the version is pleasant without adding anything to the original or making any attempt to reinterpret it. So there you have it. Meet Yr Acres shows a young artist with a ton of potential doing what young artists with a ton of potential often do making a spotty but competent debut album. Obnoxious spellings aside, there aren't many glaring faults to be found with the Capitol Years' sound, just some areas that could use improvement. Here's hoping the next record lives up to its potential, and maybe works on its spelling a bit. "}