{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13955/homepage_large.e3893b93.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"The Veils","title":"Sun Gangs","text":" The Veils are an international quartet that includes a German, a Brit, and two Kiwis. But the band's heartbeat is that of Finn Andrews, a globetrotting goth troubadour from a rock'n'roll lineage (he is the spawn of XTC's Barry, though it seems unfair to mention it since his talent far outstrips others of similar parentage). Not only is Andrews the primary songwriter, frontman, and face of the band (that was his portrait on the cover of 2007's Nux Vomica), but with the group's often spare arrangements and bluesy, sandpapery melodies, it is his keening voice that gives the Veils their emotional wallop.It's a voice that splits the difference between the earnest, reedy wanting of a young, bemulleted Bono and the anxious bleat of \"Paranoid Android\"era Thom Yorke. Many have used Jeff Buckley as a comparison, but that misses Andrews' best feature. While Buckley's falsetto was so emotive that it could bleed a Leonard Cohen song of its darkness, carving a path for teary American Idol performances, Andrews has a dryness to his delivery, taking what could be poignant and churning it around in his mouth until it comes out wry or arch. It sounds akin to many of rock's greatest voices, but ultimately, because his tongue is often planted far inside his cheek, the final effect is unique, so when he does give in to a moment of sincerity, listeners feel the weight.Though Sun Gangs, Veils' third fulllength and second with their current lineup, is missing the spleen that surged throughout Nux Vomica, it offers plenty of other drama for Andrews to vocally interpret. He claims that it's a breakup record, and the lyrics on the surprisingly delicate title track seem to confirm it, even if few of the other tracks are explicitly about romantic loss. For the first time, however, Andrews seems comfortable giving in to the expressive power of his voice. And so the songs with the most earnestly sung, majestic melodies like the Bernard Butlerproduced, pianoled opener \"Sit Down By the Fire\" are among the collection's best.Sun Gangs is, unmistakably, an emotional journey, though not always a pleasant one. \"Three Sisters\" and \"The Letter\" offer proof that Andrews is enamored with fellow Antipodean Nick Cave, though not having 30 years of experience like his hero, the tunes start to feel forgettable and overly repetitious in the context of the album. And \"Larkspur\", Sun Gang's emotional centerpiece, is especially difficult to listen to, especially given its more than eightandahalfminute run time. Depending on your mood, it can sound like the purposefully disorienting soundtrack to a nervous breakdown or, with its build and repeated \"I pull his hands from the earth\" mantra, a modern update of the Doors' garbled theatrics of \"The End\". But there is still something compelling about its unpleasantness, how it is so naked and unafraid of being ugly. And fortunately, it comes just two songs after \"The House She Lived In\", Sun Gangs' melodic showstopper. With a vintage vibe and charming lyrics that rhyme \"remember\" with \"December\" against the familiar insistence of doowop piano chords, the track's pop charm remains as an aftertaste long enough for listeners to muddle through \"Larkspur\"'s often cruel ambiance.Perhaps, then, Sun Gangs is less a breakup record, and more a \"relationship\" record, in that it has the ups and downs of a love affair, with moments of joy, boredom, and viciousness sandwiched in closely next to each other. And while that makes for a challenging and complex listen Andrews has certainly proved to be adept at wringing bitterness or misanthropy from bruised melodies one can't help but hope that his next relationship is a happy one. For Sun Gangs' biggest surprise is that Andrews sounds lovely sounding lovely. "}