{"label":" Full Frame","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1284/homepage_large.c3cd32c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Capitol Years","title":"Jewelry Store EP","text":" Showmanship is an art lost on just about the entire indie world. Too many bands just stand there, meekly playing their songs without ever bothering to say a word to the crowd or act engaged. It's amazing how seldom something simple as telling the audience what band they're listening to crosses the mind of the people on stage, much less anything approaching stage presence. I caught the Capitol Years on a Sunday night in a nearly empty room, maybe a month ago, and they were a blast of fresh air after years spent in the hyperbaric chamber of indie rock shows. These guys might as well have been playing for a stadium full of obnoxiously screaming fans. They interacted with the skeletal crowd, played a spirited, tight set that radiated enthusiasm. A show I'd gone to solely out of curiosity and boredom actually made me move and stuck with me. What are the chances? I wasn't crazy about the first Capitol Years record, Meet Yr Acres, which was basically a solo recording by bandleader Shai Halperin (or Shai, Son of Eli, as he sometimes goes by), but after that show, I was willing to give their fullband debut a try, and to my delight, it doesn't disappoint. These guys take the allout rock and freeflowing energy of their show and smash it onto a little plastic disc that's a blast to listen to.Jewelry Store is oldschool rock'n'roll, but I want to clarify that it's clearly quite separate from the garage rock renaissance. The Capitol Years pluck their bluesy riffs and rough harmonies from the past with the same lack of pretense that makes it work for bands like Sloan, who seem to embody the spirit of their influences, as well as their sound. \"Even if you're happy, won't you let me buy you more,\" exhorts Halperin to his romantic interest on the fantastic title track, a classic raveup built on a solid boogie progression and rock hard drumming from \"Sir\" Kyle Lloyd. \"River Raid\" (which I hope is named for my favorite Atari 2600 title) runs away on a ragged guitar and a series of feel changes, but it's the closer, \"Train Race\", that stands out as the clear winner. The hook is built around the most musically demure moment on the EP, and it's followed immediately by an onslaught of monster riffs and propulsive rhythms that serve to highlight how well crafted it is. Throughout the record, the production of Brian McTear (Burning Brides, Haywood) and Thom Monahan (Pernice Brothers, Scud Mountain Boys) keeps the VU meters hot and the sound focused. The final result is a wellrealized reinvention of the Capitol Years name, and a damn good time. Their show may still be the best place to catch them, but the Jewelry Store is worth a trip. "}