{"label":" Traffic Entertainment","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13963/homepage_large.cb5206ad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Arthur Russell","title":"The Sleeping Bag Sessions","text":" Since many of us are oldschool albumtypes who'd dismiss a Bsides compilation for being flabby, critics often damn records like The Sleeping Bag Sessions by calling them collections of \"odds and ends.\" Maybe that's not a dismissive phrase to your ears, especially now that trackatatime blog culture has turned us all into scavengers to one degree or another. But to me it's always suggested the remixes and lesserknown experiments and doodles finally deemed fit to turn a buck after every other nook and cranny of an artist's oeuvre has been exploited.Said dismissal becomes even more problematic when applied to Arthur Russell, who scoffed at \"coherence\" when it came to making aesthetic connections, developing a songwriting language, maintaining career momentum, or even attributing his work. No wonder the 21stcentury compilations of Russell's music excepting perhaps 2008's songfocused Love Is Overtaking Me have felt like grabbags, usually in interesting ways. That said, The Sleeping Bag Sessions is easily the least interesting certainly the least revelatory posthumous Russell collection yet released.The title Sleeping Bag was the record label coowned by Russell, home to some of his most outré work and his most commercial supposedly lends the muchneeded thread binding these 10 very disparate tracks. The work varies widely in quality, the tracks feel sketchily connected at best (even with the labelspecific focus), and the whole thing seems thrown together. I'm not sure why we needed not one but two versions of \"5 Minutes\", a novelty dance cut built on samples of Ronald Reagan, except that they were until now uncollected. They're not bad, just inert, onenote agitprop gags that have failed to gain charm with nostalgic hindsight, their stuttering special effects lacking both the strangeness and pop punch of contemporaneous remix kings like the Latin Rascals. (The bassline's aged even more poorly.) And I'm also not sure if the Sounds of JHS 126 Brooklyn's \"Chill Pill\" is mildly peppy discorap made annoying by Russell's echo and reverb play, or forgettable oldschool made slightly notable by trippy effects. Either way, it sounds slight, inessential.Those are the lows. The highs are welcome but familiar, and more or less all lengthy semiimprovisations playing with traditional disco rhythms. The 12minute Walter Gibbons mix of \"Go Bang\" pulses with percussive energy queered by dub technique, while smoothing out some of the vocal and musical eccentricities found in other mixes. The remixer even daringly ditches all extraneous stage dressing at the fourminute mark to maximize the tension of his little têteàtête between a dry bass thump, warehousecavernous snare crash, and gnarled, staccato guitar. Stark and loud against the negative space he's punched into Russell's previously bustling soundscape, Gibbons' drums are so tactile that a shaker's rustle can buzz right up your spine. Likewise, \"School Bell/Tree House\" does much the same for pattering hand drums, though Russell smears the midrange with his trademark cello hum.But these are wellestablished works of genius, forcertain cornerstones of Russell's tricky canon. The rest is padding at best, disco and downtown semiobscurities given a profile boost thanks to Russell's latedecade burst of acclaim. The Felix collaboration with Nicky Siano is fine enough mixfodder, but that's fainter praise than it reads considering their storming work together on \"Kiss Me Again\". It's not as if The Sleeping Bag Sessions is going to do some violence to Russell's quite secure rep. But neophytes are advised to let their fingers continue walking past this in the \"R\" rack until they find a copy of 2004's stillessential World of Arthur Russell. "}