{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13967/homepage_large.ad4e7823.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mia Clarke","artist":"Bike For Three!","title":"More Heart Than Brains","text":" Musical collaborations across great distances have many challenges. First you have to find ways to keep the energy alive and cohesive without being able to feed off each other on the spot; then there are time differences to negotiate and the natural ebb and flow of personal inspiration and schedules to plan around. With these obstacles in place, it's tough to remain on the same page as your collaborator. So how about when you've never met the musician you are working with? Such was the case for Belgianbased producer Joëlle Phuong Minh Lê (Greetings From Tuskan) and Canadian indierap artist Buck 65 when they created their debut album, More Heart Than Brains, under the moniker Bike For Three! (Full disclosure: I contributed a guitar part to a track from Buck 65's Dirtbike Trilogy.)Of course, there are advantages to writing songs this way. Since each presence is designed to motivate the other from afar and relies on an interdependent exchange of surprises and ideas, a clearer mesh of distinct identities can emerge. This is certainly the case on More Heart Than Brains. As it's name reflects, this is a highly personal and tender album, rich with musings on adventure, love, and the mysteries of life. Phuong Minh Lê, an outstanding electronic artist, handled the composition and production, while Buck 65 contributed the lyrics, which run fast and furious through every track with his typically visceral and expressive delivery.Both musicians stand apart Buck 65 with his sharp lyrical details and storytelling, and the flinty glitz of Phuong Minh Lê's exquisite, shimmering landscape that rarely plays by the rules as it constantly shifts and dives, resurfacing unpredictably as she throws remarkable textural surprises into the mix. Together they create something very special. \"Nightdriving\", \"Lazarus Phenomenon\", and \"Always I Will Miss You. Always You\", show Bike For Three! at their best as their ideas fuse seamlessly and naturally. A couple of times things fall off track, such as the futuristic, awkward shagginess of \"MC Space\", but it's mostly exciting to hear Buck 65, who has been fiercely productive for 15 years, rise to the challenges set by Phuong Minh Lê.There's something almost voyeuristic in listening to such an intimate musical relationship built on exchanging confidential messages to one another, but it's this warmth that gives the record its spirit. More Heart Than Brains shows that Bike For Three! have plenty of ideas left to mine in the future, whether they meet or not. Perhaps they never will. As Buck 65 sings on \"Let's Never Meet\": \"Let's never meet and regret a past endeavor/ What we have is rare indeed and guaranteed to last forever.\" "}