{"label":" Nettwerk","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13973/homepage_large.cbe84bd3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"A Camp","title":"Colonia","text":" \"Love is stronger than Jesus,\" Nina Persson will have you believe, and to prove her point, she issues a further challenge to \"bring on the war and diseases.\" Now, whether love is stronger than swine flu remains to be seen, but for Persson, it ultimately doesn't matter for her, the power of love is measured not by the elation but the devastation. Ever since presenting herself as a model of cheery Scandinavian congeniality on the cover of the Cardigans'  Life back in 1995, Persson has played up the ironic distance between her pixieesque appearance and the emotional unrest stirring in so many of her songs; on her second album as A Camp, the tally of bruised egos and broken hearts practically reaches pandemic proportions.The real irony here is that Persson's husband, Shudder to Think guitarist Nathan Larson, rides shotgun on this trail of rocky romances. Along with coproducer Niclas Frisk, he pushes Persson out of the forest fantasias created by Sparklehorse's Mark Linkous on A Camp's 2001 debut towards a sound that, true to Larson's glamrock pedigree, is both more regal and urbane. As a solo outlet, the A Camp guise allows Persson to avoid the assumed confessional baggage that plagues so many singersongwriters performing under their own name. And Colonia's luxuriant presentation makes it easier to imagine Persson as, well, a different person: the medieval mistress sarcastically saluting her \"murderous ass\" of a king on \"The Crowning\"; the subservient rockstar groupie on the rollicking \"My America\"; or the trophy wife in the acerbic lullaby \"I Signed the Line\" who decides she wants to cash out. And by fortuitous circumstance, \"Here Are Many Wild Animals\" a study of primal desires cast in a girlgroup gloss is given extra bite due to the fact the artist it most clearly references, Phil Spector, was recently caged for his own unsuppressed bloodlust.Given Persson's facility as a storyteller, it figures that Colonia's spell is broken whenever she breaks from character. \"Chinatown\", a snowcovered stroll through Persson's favorite New York 'hood, tries too hard to mythologize its everyday scenery, piling on the choral vocals, synthetic orchestration, and Asian guitar accents. And while the metaduet with Nicolai Dunger on \"Golden Teeth and Silver Medals\" wherein the two address each other by name and sing about singing a love song together has designs on subverting traditional popsinger pairings, its blustery, spotlightclamoring chorus essentially renders it a Swedish indie answer to weddingsong standards like \"Up Where We Belong\". But Colonia is mostly careful to use its expanded palette of sounds for subtle shading rather than gratuitous effect. This is particularly evident on the sublime closer, \"The Weed Had Got There First\", a serene pianorolled promenade in which Persson chronicles a history of letdowns in botanical terms, but the closing passage where Persson blissfully ladida's along with the string section suggests regret is a feeling she's grown accustomed to. And so it is in Colonia's quietest moment that Persson's greatest gift becomes most audible: her knack for passing off disappointment as fulfillment. "}