{"label":" 3 Lobed","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13971/homepage_large.67442ce4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Bardo Pond","title":"Peri","text":" Philadelphia's Bardo Pond have been an underground fixture for so long that it can become easy to overlook them. But they've carved out an impressive psychrock niche for themselves over the course of their now 15+ year career, a niche that seems more than ever to be exclusively their own. The past several years have frequently found Bardo Pond in retrospective mode, sifting through mountains of past jams and improvisational experiments. So far they've selfreleased seven volumes of unearthed outtakes and rarities, and last year ThreeLobed Recordings issued Batholith, a potent collection of previously unreleased material.Evidently the vaults have not yet been fully exhausted, for now the Bardos have teamed again with ThreeLobed to release Peri, a companion album to Batholith that contains many prized tracks that have, for one reason or another, never found a home on any of the group's proper studio albums. And though these tracks are by definition outtakes, the album is sequenced to be a cohesive listening experience in its own right, and the highlights hold their own against anything in the vast Bardo Pond back catalogue.The hallmark sounds of Bardo Pond have shifted and evolved slightly over the years, but their central approach to heavy psychrock remains fixed. Guitarist brothers Michael and John Gibbons have never liked their riffs tidied and lined up singlefile, instead preferring a layered, overlapping sound that blurs every angle, leading to a heightened sense of disorientation. Another, more polarizing, constant in their sound has been vocalist Isobel Sollenberger's contributions on flute, with some of their fussier listeners judging a given track's success by the amount of flute it might or might not contain.Recorded at the band's Philly headquarters during their 19962001 Matador era, the tracks on Peri showcase all of Bardo Pond's prevailing tendencies to potent effect. (Flute quotient: moderate to low.) To my ears, this collection improves upon Batholith largely based on the strength of the two pieces that form the LP's second side. \"Chicken Gun\", a longtime live staple, is the band at their grungiest, with the rhythm section of bassist Clint Takeda and drummer Ed Farnsworth kicking up a formidable storm while the guitarists stretch the song's riff like black taffy. Even more transporting is the closing \"Silver Pavilion\", on which Sollenberger trades flute for a ghostly viola, and the whole band displays its uncanny knack for focused yet centerless group improvisation.Whatever your feelings about Sollenberger's flute, there is little denying that she remains a captivating frontwoman, even as her words are frequently submerged into the group's dark rising tides. Her dazed, narcotic vocals are the perfect vehicle when Bardo Pond want to explore their more pastoral side, as on \"The Path\", and her presence also helps gives their heavier material an ineffable human touch. Although it will be most valuable to established fans, Peri is an ideal complement to such vintage Bardo albums as 1997's Lapsed or 2001's Dilate, and it is a comfort to take the time to idle awhile in its enveloping glow. "}