{"label":" In the Red","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13980/homepage_large.e355ce17.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Thee Oh Sees","title":"Help","text":" When we had to go to the record store to get music, I liked buying albums I knew nothing about based only on their cover art. There was something exciting to me about rolling the dice on a band after simply connecting with their visual aesthetic. Of course, that kind of mystery doesn't exist anymore we could feasibly know loads about a group before hearing a note of their music but if it did, I think I would take one look at the handdrawn purple bat and rainbow adorning Thee Oh Sees'  Help and just know it was going to be rad. And I would be right.For those who haven't been following John Dwyer's various costume changes over the years, Thee Oh Sees are an extension of the San Franciscobased rocker's work as OCS, a lofi solo folk project he started after heading up (among others) the raucous noise and garage acts Pink and Brown and Coachwhips. Over time the band's expanded into a fourpiece, and Dwyer's used it as a means to explore his deep love of 1960s psychedelic and garage rock. It's also been an avenue for him to try out more conventional pop songs with deeper accessibility 2008's mostly underappreciated  The Master's Bedroom Is Worth Spending a Night In found Dwyer at his most listenable to date.Help isn't so much a departure from Master's Bedroom but a refinement of what Thee Oh Sees accomplished on that record. Their approach is the same a combination of the Cramps' zombie rockabilly with the rumble of the 60s underground but everything about this album is tighter and more focused. Gone are the detours into funereal dirges, the patches of spaznoise, and the momentary freakouts. Here you've got just 12 very good rock songs without an ounce of fat on them. Perhaps more remarkable is that, in this effort to streamline, Thee Oh Sees haven't lost their signature volatility Help still seems like it could careen off the rails at any moment (a good thing).With an album this retrominded, there's a desire to pick apart all its myriad influences, and indeed, I could spend my entire word count investigating nods to the Small Faces, 13th Floor Elevators, the Troggs, and others, but that would be missing the point. The important thing here is that Thee Oh Sees incorporate the oftreferenced Nuggets stuff in a way that feels reverential. With grinding guitars and bahbahbah vocals, tracks like \"Meat Step Lively\" and \"Go Meet the Seed\" owe everything to this style, but with the punk and newwave elements also at play, they don't feel trite or plagiarized. Even if they did, these guys sound so much more authentic than almost anyone else doing this kind of thing that one wonders if it would matter.As he did on Master's Bedroom, Dwyer splits vocal duties here with bandmate Brigid Dawson and it's this onetwo punch that really makes the record sing. On devilish stompers \"Destroyed Fortress Reappears\" and \"Ruby Go Home\", her soft croon cuts the acidity of Dwyer's yelp and lends the tracks buoyancy. It's a giveandtake not unlike the Mamas and the Papas' or the B52s', and even though the band is the first to point out they don't sound like the latter, the comparison is apt. The male/female vocal interplay bleeds into Help's slower tracks and works there, too. Dwyer and Dawson meet in the chorus of gritty love ballad \"A Flag in the Court\" and beautifully doubletrack the brooding, dirty groove of \"Can You See?\"These tracks and other winners such as \"Rainbow\" and \"Soda St. #1\" comprise an album that's virtually mistakefree. It's hard to pick out a song, or even aspects of a song, that don't work within the overall context of the record. That's not to say that everyone will love it. In the end it's a niche piece, and if you don't have an appreciation for the music Thee Oh Sees are drawing upon, it's safe to say this won't be your thing. But if you're a lifelong garagerock purist or just enjoy the occasional Jay Reatard track, there's a good chance you'll get a lot of mileage out of Help. It's hard not to: This is like meat and potatoes prepared by a master chef totally familiar but utterly delicious. "}