{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13992/homepage_large.c4657231.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Meanderthals","title":"Desire Lines","text":" If you're wondering how the improbable pun \"meanderthal\" has entered the insular music lexicon twice in two years first as the title of Miami metalheads Torche's 2008 sophomore album and now as the moniker of the downtempo trio composed of the Idjut Boys and Rune Lindbaek look to academia. Matthew Tiessen of the University of Alberta, bless him, has defined the meanderthal as an urban monkeywrench, an inhibitor of the flow of modern life. Meanderthals (the group), presumably not buying what Tiessen's selling, have rebranded this persona as a loveable, harmless drifter, which aligns them philosophically with every jam band ever and possibly Asher Roth. Fitting, I suppose, as the group's debut album, Desire Lines (the title taken from one of Tiessen's papers), does a righteous job of staying out of pretty much everyone's way.Released on Smalltown Supersound, the twobit takeaway for Desire Lines is that it blends the peculiar lounging of Balearic disco with folk/guitar music, peppering their downbeat grooves with widescreen acoustic chording and gnarled psychedelics. A purely instrumental affair, Desire Lines feels roomy and unfussy despite the genre mashing, often laying in the cut of a ponderous and swollen bassline, upon which various niceties are poured. The lowend is so prominent and wandering that it sounds like the product of an old master's thumb, not a sequencer (indeed: Malcolm Joseph, bassist for Grace Jones, is credited on the album).The bass proves an equal foil for the widescreen, hippiefried guitars of opener \"Kunst or Ars\", a track so relentlessly sunny in its folktronic blend that it makes Four Tet's  Rounds sound like Burial's Untrue. Steel drums pepper the breaks, augmenting the humid scenery. Indeed, \"Kunst or Ars\" is Desire Lines' most enduring moment, though for a band that doesn't shy away from the Balearic disco tag, Meanderthals frequently dip their toes into swampier waters. \"Lasaron Highway\" recalls Ash Ra Tempel in both scope and oddity, noodling its way through nearly eight minutes of highway clang. Set closer \"Bugges Room\" reimagines lounge jazz as a sleepyeyed, coughing malcontent. There's beatmaking, too: The rummy, deep percussion that begins \"Andromeda (Prelude to the Future)\" might've been the start to a wallshaking banger, but Meanderthals knead it into an uncasual, leering spacedisco, the type of song you could dance to only passively at 5 a.m.\"Disco\" is probably the operative starting point for most of Desire Lines, but tracks often lack the linearity and repetition that base implies. \"Collective Fetish\" splashes guitars against its walls, quiets to an ominous burble, then fades to a gentle patter. The title track pans clean chords through each channel before building to a classicrock climax, complete with careening guitars whose effects all sound programmed by a 17yearold with too many pedals, but in a neat way.Barring the occasional midsong bridge that might have you checking your watch, most of it works, too: Even when Desire Lines slows, it's because it's wandering or straggling, not because it's hamming out samey minutes in some illforged notion of filling up a 12\" (like a real disco band). This is probably a product of all that layering, sure, but also the aforementioned worldview; however silly, Meanderthals believe all that hokey shit. Sometime when you're not real busy, give it a shot. "}