{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13994/homepage_large.c1509e2a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Horrors","title":"Primary Colours","text":" Hype works both ways: Just as it encourages the overestimation of underdeveloped bands, it can also result in the kneejerk dismissal of any upstart act with the (mis)fortune of being plastered on the cover of NME before the debut EP's even been recorded. Of course, East London quintet the Horrors didn't do themselves any favors by presenting themselves in a conceptual wrapping that seemingly had all the staying power of last night's mascara, mining a welltapped vein of ghoulish American garagerock, prancing around in cartoonishly goth getups, and putting on sloppy, selfsabotaging 15minute sets, all for the amusement of their celebrity guest list. But the band's mediasaturated ascent distracted from the fact that the Horrors had actually done their homework: Their 2006 debut EP featured covers of two Joe Meekproduced, Pebblesapproved classics and on the subsequent tour, the band's preshow PA mix included tracks by the Seeds, the Cramps, and Gun Club. And after struggling to keep the shockrock shtick fresh over the entirety of 2007's Strange House fulllength, the Horrors were smart enough to recognize garagerock's aesthetic limitations and that the very sort of garagerock purist who would appreciate a good cover of Screaming Lord Sutch's \"Jack the Ripper\" had probably already written them off on the basis of their poofy haircuts. And so the Horrors' desire to make campy, Bmovieinspired punkrock seems to have died along with Lux Interior. Their second album, Primary Colours, contains no hauntedhouse Farfisa organ drones, no bluesrock riffing and no songs about graveyards or murderers, a change reflected in their choice of producers; where Strange House was helmed by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Nick Zinner, the expansive sound of Primary Colours was fashioned by the trio of Geoff Barrow (Portishead), Craig Silvey, and video director Chris Cunningam. The recently released first teaser from Primary Colours, \"Sea Within a Sea\", sees that production tandem's cinematic sensibility in full effect, with eight minutes of steely Krautrock propulsion that recasts lead shrieker Faris Badwan as a lovelorn crooner. On first listen, the song seems antithetical to the Horrors' patented gothgarage gimmickry; but the amazing thing about Primary Colours is that, by the time \"Sea Within a Sea\" appears as the album's comedown closer, the transition feels like a natural outcome. There is, of course, clear precedent in transforming gothic gloom into psychedelic drone: After all, the Jesus and Mary Chain, Spacemen 3 and My Bloody Valentine all of whom loom large on Primary Colours were all big fans of the Cramps and the Birthday Party. But unlike downcast contemporaries like Crystal Stilts, the Horrors translate the influence of those avantrock icons into swaggering, massappeal pop music: \"Three Decades\" may lean heavily on MBVstyle flangepedal contortions, but its driving momentum and Badwan's fullblooded delivery lend it an anthemic, openroad abandon, matched by uncommonly optimistic lyrics: \"Forget your regrets/ Don't lose your purpose, this is your heart!\" The song provides the first glimpse that, beneath his vampy visage, Badwan fancies himself a romantic. \"Do You Remember\" may sound like a readymade soundtrack for studentdisco one night stands, but within its decadent, Suedeian glam groove is a promise for longterm commitment, and in the beautifully brooding ballad \"Scarlet Fields\", the Horrors appropriate the melody of Joy Division's \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\" but use it to convey hope instead of resignation. The Horrors' shoegazer makeover aside, the real story here is Badwan's growing confidence as a singer, and his willingness to sound more scared than scary. Primary Colours loses its radiance when he reverts back to bogeyman type: \"New Ice Age\" sounds like a musty Strange House holdover, while \"I Can't Control Myself\" is a rewrite of Spiritualized's \"Come Together\" that in the absence of Jason Pierce's gospel choir and backing orchestra simply grinds its repetitive riff into the ground. But such regressions are a distant memory once we get sucked into \"Sea Within a Sea\", which, after you get beyond the \"hey, we bought a Can record\" novelty, proves to be something much more than a mere clinical exercise in recordcollector rock. Rather, the song plays out as an analogue of the Horrors' own spiritual rebirth, its hypnorock pulse turning more ominous and intense before a synthtriggered denouement introduces a melodic levity that breaks the song's air of despair and completes the Horrors' aesthetic liberation. For a band that's endured no lack of skepticism for their prefab packaging, it turns out the freakiest thing about the Horrors is that they're for real. "}