{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14003/homepage_large.04a98b44.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Maximo Park","title":"Quicken the Heart","text":" Despite the rating above, Maxïmo Park haven't quite followed the same tragic threealbum arc as fellow UK postpunk revivalists like Bloc Party or Futureheads. Sure, their creative zest has also buckled under the pressure of success and pristine production, but of all the \"angular\" sediment the Franz Ferdinand tidal wave brought with it, the always underrated Maxïmo Park felt most like a diamond in the rough. Debut A Certain Trigger still staves off easy pigeonholing, its influences obvious but execution nuanced. Also, for a thorough album that didn't need to rely on singles, it gave us fistpumpers like \"Apply Some Pressure\" and \"Graffiti\", instantly classic guitarrock songs at a time when the previously redundant phrase \"guitar rock\" became a niche modifier. Yes, the other revivalists had big hits and nifty debut albums, too, but Maxïmo Park felt unique, more wideeyed and versatile and, most importantly, not too tightly tethered to any one trend.So why are Maxïmo Park milling around the same midcareer culdesac as their cohorts? For starters, they overreached to prove their songwriting chops on 2007's coercively grownup Our Earthly Pleasures. Like Keanu Reeves on that bus, the band's hooks are doomed when traveling at lessthanfrenetic speeds, and Pleasures was too concerned with deliberately collating all the emotions and anxieties that sounded better strewn about on the debut. Notsosecret weapon Paul Smith, a throwback to showstealing Brit frontmen like Morrissey and Jarvis Cocker, felt wasted on that album, relegated to hamfisted attempts at conventional balladry and Beatlesesque melodies instead of his signature halfranted, halfsung vocals.Quicken the Heart's title is telling. The band seems to know their need to jumpstart the schmaltz from Pleasures and recapture the dilettantish energy that made Trigger so likable and unintentionally chic. Easier said than done, though. With Nick Launay behind the boards, the album feels like a geeky brother to It's Blitz!, also produced by Launay. The pairing bears fruit on \"The Kids Are Sick Again\", a midtempo single that begins with the same warm electrorock buzz of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs' \"Zero\" or \"Soft Shock\" then escalates to a chorus worthy of Pulp during their peak. However, most of the synth lines here sound like they've wondered onto tracks they have no place occupying. The sluggish guitar rock on \"In Another World (You Would've Found Yourself by Now)\" and \"Calm\" needs more raw space and jagged guitar parts, not a coating of cold synthesizers to undermine Smith's heartonsleeve immediacy.Unlike Norton's adultcontemporary treatment on Pleasures, though, Launay helps the album more than he hurts it. The fact is, these are the weakest batch of songs Maxïmo Park's brought into the studio to date. On attempted throwbacks like \"The Penultimate Clinch\", Smith and his bandmates struggle to regain their charisma, the song's limp kraut groove not helped by bathos like \"...But it's like dismantling/ A decommissioned spacecraft/ Some parts you can't destroy.\" Even when showing their cards on \"Let's Get Clinical\" and \"Tanned\", two jerky math jams humbly cribbed from Wire's 154, the result feels tackier than it does sophisticated.Pleasures at least hit the soft targets it set out to. Here, the band's grasping at a sense of cool they used to stumble upon almost by accident. By the gooey last few tracks of Quicken, it seems they've quit the search for a fountain of youth, not even leaving a kernel of hope like Pleasures closer \"Parisian Skies\", which hinted at Maxïmo Park becoming a 21st century version of R.E.M. Still, this album isn't a death knell for these once beloved upstarts. Smith is still persistently moral and compassionate, trying to preserve his heart (and sanity) in a fastpaced world of hitech gadgets and longdistance relationships. And perhaps part of the problem is that Maxïmo Park's hearts are too big. The painstaking introspection here seems to stem from a need to use their success and exposure to deliver some definitive, U2sized message when really they're so much more relatable when they're awkwardly sorting out their psychological messes on the fly. "}