{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14010/homepage_large.501137e1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Arctic Monkeys","title":"Arctic Monkeys at the Apollo","text":" \"I always find live shows on film kind of boring. Even my favorite ones, I kinda zone out for most of it.... There's just a visceral thing that never translates very well.\" That's none other than Mr. Arcade Fire, Win Butler, talking to this website about his band's risky recent documentary, Miroir Noir. And he's absolutely right. Like most notable rock films from Don't Look Back to Gimme Shelter to recent winner Glastonbury Miroir Noir isn't a mere chronicle of a band on a stage playing to people who are singing along. The film features bits of recordingsession footage and offbeat montages along with grainy snips of shows; by adding elements of nonshow spontaneity, Miroir Noir translates a real live gig's snap that much better. Arctic Monkeys at the Apollo which was released in the UK last November and hits the U.S. this week with a bonus live CD shows the Sheffield quartet on stage at the Manchester Apollo playing to people who are singing along. The end. You are now permitted to zone out.Well, not just yet, maybe. Apollo at least attempts to be more than just another concert movie. Instead of going with quick cuts and crispbutsoulless HD video, editor Nick Fenton (Sigur Rós' Heima) favors longer tracking shots and director Richard Ayoade (\"The Mighty Boosh\") and director of photography Danny Cohen (This Is England) go with Super 16 film to give the piece a more cinematic feel. But there's only so much one can do with lens flares and light trails (there are plenty of both throughout). The relatively artistic filming techniques are worn out within the first 10 minutes of the 76minute movie. So it's up to the Monkeys themselves to put on the show of their lives to make something worth popping in the DVD player for years to come.Too bad this band isn't ready for such a document. They've got songs and charisma, but not enough to support a release like Apollo just yet. It's the last concert of their 2007 world tour, but instead of leaving all their sweat and/or guts on the floor, they just look a bit tired. And while lead singer Alex Turner's wise ass snarl comes through on record, his brattiness almost reads as condescension here he tells the Manchester audience they're being fed to the center of Berlin via satellite as a joke, but nobody really gets it.The crowd is given shortshrift throughout, too; their vocal participation is largely muted and the cameras stay trained on the Monkeys the whole time, giving the film a hermetic feel, as if it were taped in an antiseptic studio. Aside from drummer Matt Helders, whose technical skill and enthusiasm is admirable here, the Monkeys teeter between offthecuff and offthemark; there is a difference between fuckall and fuckoff. Songs that allow Turner to breathe \"Do Me a Favour\", \"505\", \"When the Sun Goes Down\" offer a little release from the woundup monotony, but they're not enough.Concert DVDs are a good, cheap way for record companies to recoup losses from the decline of album sales but, as more and more flood the market, their secondhand POV quickly becomes ineffectual. Because, without any sort of originality, innovation, or personality, something like Apollo may as well be a YouTube fan clip. (At least that way we could have heard the reallife audience reactions.) Arctic Monkeys try to keep it respectable with experienced men behind the cameras and justgrainyenough film stock, but all that is moot without something compelling to watch. This is frustrating, especially since recent YouTube videos with Diddy prove these guys have humor and chumminess to spare why not work that into this DVD at some point? Near the very end of Apollo, the film abruptly and briefly cuts to a quick moving reel of behindthescenes footage of the band goofing around. They make weird faces, Turner hammily leads the camera to a picturesque oceanside locale. It's a great montage and it's over in 30 seconds. "}