{"label":" Silverthree","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1291/homepage_large.1632f708.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Cardia","title":"Cardia","text":" After nearly fifteen minutes, our group still could not decide on a reasonably cool name to bestow upon the limp pink flesh laid out beneath the hovering and sharpened blade. The leading candidates were Sir PorksALot and Lord Piggington. The reason for our prolonged contemplation? Aside from this being the first cadaver any of us had ever analyzed, this particular fetal pig had something going for it that even Charlotte couldn't have spun a web about. While everyone else had a runofthemill weehog, ours was delivered straight from the bucket with a fullon goatee and a wraparound mark across its back. He was wearing a black leather biker's jacket. It was incredible our own Hell's Angel Hog and we couldn't have such a cool pig sporting anything but an appropriately hip and regal name. For the sake of time, the group eventually compromised and decided on Elvis Pigsley before cutting into his lower abdomen. Upon dissection we unfortunately discovered another unsettling surprise about The King: though he looked relatively normal on the outside, his insides were incomplete and nonfunctional. Underdeveloped lungs, esophagus, and intestines, the pig didn't even have a functioning heart. DOA. He was lucky to have never seen the outside world; it saved him the pain and harm exposure would have inevitably brought in tow. A similar battle between style and substance function sacrificed at the altar of maintaining a dim facade of cool played out as I listened to Cardia's selftitled debut, released by Mike Harbin's (Burning Airlines) new label, Silverthree Sound. Choosing not to rely upon any epidermal or follicular peculiarities to forge their reputations, Cardia instead use the wonderful power of press release hype, which points their sound squarely toward the vicinity of Radiohead, U2, and Jeff Buckley. The origin of this comparison is more than likely linked to the admittedly beautiful voice of Ian Love (formerly of Rival Schools), outfitted in part by the large guitar sound of St. John Scott IV (Shudder To Think) and the loping rhythm section comprised of percussionist Andy Action (2 Skinnee J's) and bassist/MENSA candidate Brad Vanderark (The Verve Pipe). Constituents in place, the group doesn't suffer from lack of technical proficiency or musical experience, instead only coming short in the area that one could argue matters the most in pop music: the hook. While it's not antagonistically bothersome that \"Crash\" bears more than a passing resemblance to Bendsera Radiohead Love's Yorkeian coos and sways atop a deeply syncopated rhythm and spacey guitar effects it is a nagging nuisance that Cardia seems to have taken the wonderful elements of that familiar sound and shunted them into a song bereft of any meaty or gratifying catch. In the same way, \"Stars\" hints at a mellower \"Airbag\" before diving into a neutered guitar line, effectively debasing a tune I could have proudly whistled to my grave. Further shrouding themselves in some semblance of seminal UK rock, the band's subject matter tends toward an interpersonal politic that makes wide use of isolationist metaphors and relationship analogies. Once again though their heart is in the right place Cardia seems to miss the lyrical point: the draw of such themes is the allusion to content, not the dogmatic forcefeeding of lines like, \"When the feelings come back to me/ I want them gone\" (\"Never Feel\"). \"Our Love Is Real\" doesn't redeem the sentiment either in its pithiness \"And sometimes I feel like/ It's alright to be in love\" made further unpalatable by the Geddy Lee bywayof Axl Rose vocal delivery, Love stretching the falsetto beyond the measure of good taste. The remainder of the album is an experience in relatively unmemorable, guitardriven tunes, alternately swinging from the back porch bachelor music of \"Sweet Return\" to the Vangelistrappedinaburningsynthesizer sound of \"Fire!\" before finally ending with the digitized musicbox lullaby of \"Don't Let Me Down\". OffRoad isn't disagreeable or even bad, but it's absolutely forgettable. Though they may move on to greater things, for the moment Cardia represent little more than an admonition to future bands, a warning against premature presentation, twodimensional flashiness, and songwriting bereft of blood and guts. "}