{"label":" Kill Shaman","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14036/homepage_large.60f1b9f0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"Night Control","title":"Death Control","text":" Rosemead, Calif. is a stripmallpaved L.A. county outlier best known as corporate HQ for a massive electric utility in other words, not the independent rock petri dish of Silver Lake (or Brooklyn or Portland). Rosemead resident Christopher Curtis Smith's Night Control project nevertheless seems to have tapped some kind of underground spring of hip influences. A nonexhaustive but definitely exhausting roll call of listenerreported RIYLs includes: My Bloody Valentine, David Byrne, Brian Eno, Pavement, Kurt Vile, the Microphones, Ariel Pink, Sebadoh, Neil Young, Cheap Trick, Wavves, Olivia Tremor Control, the Jesus and Mary Chain, the Velvet Underground (inevitable), and Michael Jackson (not so much). If you hadn't heard a note of the 19track, 74minute debut loooongplayer Death Control, you'd be forgiven for expecting an overflowing sonic rubbish tip.Sure, Night Control makes the new wave of noise bands (including L.A.proper cool kids No Age and Abe Vigoda) seem like champions of coherence and clean production. And considering that Death Control compiles tracks cherrypicked by label Kill Shaman from a decade's worth of unreleased CDRs, I suspect that, left to his own devices, Smith boasts the same selfediting skills as Robert Pollard or Ryan Adams. But there's some method to this madness (besides a presumably awesome record collection). Neat pop containers keep Night Control's frothy blender drinks of synthesized instruments, distorted vocals, field recordings, and playback flotsam from spilling all over the place. For its disheveled strumming, scifi sound effects, and OCDed shaker, a track like \"Star 129\" is a traditionally structured composition whose songcraft and melody only become sharper and more poignant on repeat listens. \"Good Looks\"' intro of listless beats and surging guitar gives way to the album's most winsome pop song, and whiteboy bluesy \"Star 131\" sounds like a 3 a.m. cover of a lost Led Zeppelin ballad, replete with drunk, heartsick Robert Plant impersonation.Don't ask me if Night Control's lyrics make good on the music's soulful sounds, because Smith's vocals are machine manipulated beyond my patience for transcription. Unlike the vast majority of bedroom recorders, Smith doesn't seem keen to share his specific pain (to which I say, thank you, dude!). In fact, some of the album's best efforts, \"Two Hard\" and \"You're Nine\", are virtual instrumentals, sequenced for maximum effect to provide a respite from chaotic tunes like the AlanVegastrandedinaTexasroadhouse pastiche, \"Know Thy Peasant\". Despite its carnival pleasures, \"Peasant\" brings me back to Death Control's most intriguing artistic choice and biggest shortcoming after their third or fourth appearance, the massively reverbed vocals lose their intimacy.It's tempting to declare such artschool tendencies, especially in light of Smith's gift for hooks, pretentious. Yet his obvious enthusiasm and dedication to assembling such intricate mixes scuttles that argument. Eightandahalfminute closer \"For the Lanes\" pits a spokenword track against a funeral organ, fingerpicked guitar, and what sounds like construction work, continually frustrating melodic or narrative threadpicking, yet mysteriously coalescing into passages of haunting beauty. I could mention John Fahey's tape collages or rattle off a dozen other reference points. But that would only obscure the fact that Night Control is a strong and original new voice in its own right. "}