{"label":" Glassnote / Loyauté","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14052/homepage_large.7c2352e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Phoenix","title":"Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix","text":" At one point in the schlocky 1975 musical comedy Lisztomania, Roger Daltrey whips out an absurdly large phallus and no less than five women simultaneously straddle it like a cannon. It's as insane as it sounds. In the movie, Daltrey plays Franz Liszt, the 19th century Hungarian pianist and composer known for his flamboyant playing style hysterical women fought over his handkerchiefs at concerts more than a century before the Beatles. Whereas Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's music represented all things respectable and classicist, Liszt was a Romantic hero full of flash; Amadeus won eight Oscars, Lisztomania boasts lines like, \"Your big ambition was to stick your workingclass cock up a piece of highclass crumpet.\" With their fourth album, Phoenix reference both composers and hone in on an elusive target somewhere between Mozart's formal wonders and Listz's dramatic flair. While the album's 10 songs are arranged and executed with virtuoso poprock precision, they chronicle nothing but angst, confusion, disappointment, and despair. It's truly universal everybody live, love, and die.Much of the album's internal conflict is laid out in its first couple lines. \"So sentimental; not sentimental, no!/ Romantic; not disgusting yet,\" sings frontman Thomas Mars on opener \"Lisztomania\", sounding like a madman with two tiny creatures whispering into each ear. Mars keeps this treacherous divide in mind throughout Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix, and the rest of the record successfully avoids mush while keeping its beating heart intact. And the issue of thematic directness is especially important to Phoenix this is an established indie band writing songs about love that are armed with hooks primed for a mainstream embrace. Just listen to the invincible crescendo of Wolfgang's \"Countdown\" especially that little Coldplayesque piano twinkle about three and a half minutes in and realize that these guys are a few Chris Martinisms away from staggering ubiquity. They're a bona fide \"should be bigger\" band.But, as their songs tighten into increasingly effective bursts of pop, Mars is breaking up his words and meanings into smaller and smaller fragments. His isn't a selfcongratulatory, indienerd triumph, though, i.e., Mars isn't being cryptic to be an asshole. He's getting better and more sophisticated as his band discards anything an outro, a bridge, an extra hihat hit that could be deemed superfluous. Sure: YouTube tells us this album will make a generationspanning touchstone like The Breakfast Club that much better. It'll also hit your gut if you listen hard enough. There are layers here maybe too many layers for the biggest rooms.\"I feel too young,\" went the hook on Phoenix's innocent and bittersweet 2000 debut single. Back then, the quartet was following a wave of Gallic cool led by friends Daft Punk and Air. Nearly 10 years on and this casually chic group has grown into something unique Wolfgang isn't a tweaked Air record or a tweaked Strokes record as much as it's a Phoenix record. Gone is the sometimesflimsy blueeyed soul of their first two LPs, replaced with a glossier take on the uptick guitars and sampled snare snaps of 2006's brilliant It's Never Been Like That. And they're not feeling so young anymore, either. \"Do you remember when 21 years was old?\" muses Mars on \"Countdown\". Growing up, looking back, and peeking ahead usually isn't this enjoyable.Its unflappable sonic sheen gives Wolfgang some winsome 80s nostalgia, but smart modern touches a constant nearAutoTune vocal effect, Justicelite keyboard stabs on \"1901\" ensure its ofthemomentness. Meanwhile, Mars hints at a time and space where he's everywhere or nowhere all at once. \"Acres/ Visible horizon/ Right where it starts and ends/ When did we start the end?\" he wonders aloud at the end of the krautrocking epic \"Love Is a Sunset\", just after the song has blasted into a stratosphere where a diminishing horizon line is the only clear thing in sight. \"Rome\" likens a collapsing relationship to a collapsed empire; \"2000 years remain in a trash can.\" And, on \"Countdown\", Mars' ennui reaches its peak as he sings, \"True and everlasting didn't last that long.\" But he's not sadsacking along, head down, no umbrella. He's pumped. Excited. With the band going fullbore behind him, he concludes the most ebullient song about existential inevitability in recent memory with an impassioned rallying cry: \"We're the lonesome! We're the lonesome!\" All together now.At another point in Lisztomania, Roger Daltrey's entire body is sucked into a devilish princess' underthings. (Seriously.) Before that happens, though, the cigarchomping heiress quotes Oscar Wilde while explaining her unladylike smoking habit, \"It's the perfect form of pleasure, it's exquisite and leaves one unsatisfied. What more can one ask?\" Phoenix seem to understand this line of thinking and not just because they look like a group of guys who know their Gauloises. They're pleasurepushers, filling tunes with riffs, phrases, and beats a fiveyearold could love. But, on Wolfgang, those same songs are unfulfilled and this band wouldn't have it any other way. There's beauty in a sunset. Phoenix are wringing it out. "}