{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14054/homepage_large.f9299aa6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Diamond Watch Wrists","title":"Ice Capped at Both Ends","text":" Sometimes a blind first listen is best. Pinpoint the parties responsible, postrave hero Guillermo Scott \"Prefuse 73\" Herren and drummer Zach \"Hella\" Hill, and you might expect Ice Capped at Both Ends to be a little more... antic. The latest Prefuse album, this year's Everything She Touched Turned Ampexian, took Herren's cutandpaste computer editing to a new extreme in density. And Hella have long been a lazy namecheck for critics with a plate full of spazzy 21st century noisepunk unknowns. That pedigree would suggest an album of virtuoso digiviolence, riffs, and drums colliding and crumbling faster than your ears might care to process.Curiously enjoyable for a few surprised plays, Ice Capped drifts more than it jabs, built on lowimpact, quasimelodic drones and whispery indie rock harmonies. It may open with an agitated wash of cymbals and glitchedout voices, but \"pastoral\" is the easyreach adjective that will likely crop up if/when the band is discussed. (Took me a few seconds after the album ended to realize the ambient birdandbug hum coming through my open windows wasn't some kind of unlisted outro.) As will the names of certain spectralsounding, mimsyvoxed acts with zoologybased monikers, some of them also on Warp Records. (Naming names might be a bit cruel.)Nearly every song sounds like the edgeofconsciousness intro to another, moreuptempo album that never quite kicks in. Given my occasional weakness for the two placid streams that feed this mood music, the stoned synthslouch of 1990s homelistening posttechno, and isitliveinaquonsethutorisitloftstudiofuckery? new millennium gently freaky folknoise, this uniformity was just fine by me. Fair warning, though, if you require more oomph or variety in your fulllength records. I could happily avoid realworld responsibilities with the buzzing sitarish background texture of \"One Second Early Late\" for quite some time.Those who've had enough of keening, multitracked harmoniesinsearchofhooks and glassy morereverbthanguitar at a syrupsoaked 16rpm may gripe there's a hell of a lot of this stuff clogging newrelease blasts at the moment. If you're burnt out, DWW is perhaps not for you. I do wish more tracks had made use of drums, like the halfspeed (and then quartered again) scattered clumps of hiphop twitches on \"Speculative Forensic Investigation\". And the gallop of \"Epedemic Episodes of Epedemics\" is a nice a reminder that artrockcumelectronic records can be as \"atmospheric\" as they like without sacrificing a pulse.Drowsy but not unpleasantly so, Diamond Watch Wrists' debut will certainly remind cluedin listeners of other contemporary bands capturing a certain rustic ambiance and then electronically zonking it in postproduction. But its rhythmcentric moments give it a little extra jolt of personality in 2009's glut of strumandhum. The twisted hiphop iconography of their name may conjure images of lastcall revelry, sticky spilt drinks glinting off showpiece jewels under club lighting. But Ice Capped at Both Ends is best enjoyed in the early daytime hours, especially those humid summer mornings when time feels warmly distended, its slurred downtempo mood suiting the pace of the world as it rouses itself, sun washing over the neighborhood. "}