{"label":" Profound Lore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14064/homepage_large.db2f6d7e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Amesoeurs","title":"Amesoeurs","text":" Profound Lore has been knocking down the walls of black metal for a while. Label acts Caïna, Cobalt, and Wrath of the Weak alloy the genre with others, puzzling purists and delighting critics. Amesoeurs are the imprint's greatest challenge to categorization. This French band surveys blackclad music from the past 30 years postpunk, 4AD, shoegaze rock, dark ambience, black metal. The mix is both logical and disjointed. After this first and last fulllength, Amesoeurs broke up due \"to internal conflicts and different points of view about the band's future.\"Amesoeurs' debut EP, 2006's Ruines Humaines, practically forecast their demise. In three songs, they moved from distortiondrenched black metal to Joy Divisionesque starkness. Blackmetal shrieking sat uneasily next to female cooing. Guitarist/vocalist Neige held it all together. In a previous band, Peste Noire, he played black metal. In Alcest, he constructs an uncannily authentic recreation of My Bloody Valentine. In his hands, genres differ only in distortion pedal settings. Still, plumbing the depth and breadth of multiple styles is difficult, and the darkness of these particular ones makes the task only harder. Amesoeurs strive for Joy Division's heights/lows, but Joy Division were never meant to last.On Amesoeurs, all the band's influences are out in the open. The clean tones are cleaner than ever; the black metal is deeper and more depressive than ever. This contrast stretches the band thin. \"Heurt\" bolts together the melodic black metal of Wolves in the Throne Room with the softness of the Cure. \"Trouble\" is straightahead, storming black metal; \"Video Girl\" follows with the glistening jangles of the Police. A hidden electronic track at the end could be a Depeche Mode demo. The band diligently soaks its shoegaze sections in distortion. But with so many detours into blastbeats and the sparkle of 1980s Rush, it rarely redlines. \"Amesoeurs\" is a glorious exception. Sticking to bouncy postpunk, it strings up spiky riffs like Christmas lights. For four minutes, the band finds the common ground between Bloc Party and black metal.This fulllength is Amesoeurs' fervid last gasp of creativity. The album's artwork is appropriate: Sounds like these could come only from cities. One guy in black runs into another. \"Hey, nice tshirt. Wanna start a band?\" Music collections merge. Last trains of the night yield lyrics. Something happens. The band splits. They disappear back into the city, as apart as before. They leave behind this journal of triumph and heartbreak. "}