{"label":" Eskimo","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14065/homepage_large.336ee2cc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Lindstrøm & Prins Thomas","title":"II","text":" Mellow, smooth, relaxing: In traditional pop music lingo, these are euphemisms for \"boring as hell.\" But traditional pop music lingo never got around to anticipating the downtempo, proginfused strain of house music that eventually became generally known as space disco. At its best, it's music that throws you off by how calm and airy it feels on the surface, and right when you're about to be lulled halfway to inattention, the rhythms start to build on top of each other and the melodies start seeping into the forefront and you're hooked. You have Norwegian producer, studio wizard, and multiinstrumentalist HansPeter Lindstrøm to thank for helping space disco evolve into its current 21st century incarnation, and countryman Thomas Moen Hermansen (aka Prins Thomas) to thank for giving it a serious foothold by joining Lindstrøm on their first, selftitled collaborative album in 2005. After the two producers crafted some of their finest work last year the epic  Where You Go I Go Too for Lindstrøm; a host of topshelf remixes for Thomas (including a staggering reworking of City Reverb's \"City of Lights\") the timing's right for a fulllength return to their partnership, even if they have some triumphant recent history shadowing them.Fortunately, II  isn't a letdown assuming you don't count its lack of immediacy as a disappointment. On the first Lindstrøm & Prins Thomas album, eight out of 13 tracks ran less than six minutes, and most of them gave you a pretty good idea of where they were going right away. Here, only one of the eight songs clocks in under sevenandahalf, and the standard structure relies on slowbuild compositions that stretch out, decompress, and mutate; they don't so much segue from track to track as they melt into each other. And while it might feel a little like a marathon anywhere other than the dancefloor, there's more than enough going on over the course of a track instruments warping themselves into new beats, new riffs, and new melodies to give it a certain dynamism. Listen to a song as a whole, and it'll sound like a gradual rampingup from a simple theme into a jammy, psychedelic expansion; listen to it again and zero in on just the percussion or keyboards or guitar and that experience will be brought into a vivid, deep focus. But it still works in a way that never really overwhelms the song's driving rhythmic backbone light as some of it may feel, it's still dance music.The first four tracks on  II are more than vivid enough to draw the firsttime listener in, even if they defy easy description. Opener \"Cisco\" is the track that has some people dubbing this L&PT's \"rock\" move, but its multitracked guitars chime and twang over a bongoaccented funk groove with a tone that's about as close to the Alan Parsons Project as Chic were. By the time it hits its full stride halfway through, drenched in towering synthesizers and phaseshifted fuzztones, it's a sturdy embodiment of what makes both producers such kitchensink auteurs. That momentum continues over the next few tracks, whirring like an irregularlyorbiting satellite around hyperdense drums and Moroder/Vangelis atmosphere in \"Rothaus\", trembling and then briskly trotting beneath the wintry, shapeshifting piano theme in \"For Ett Slikk Og Ingenting\", and loosening its joints for the crackling energy of the shifty \"Rett På\", the most tightlypacked song on the record; it sounds like there's about a halfdozen different rhythmic ideas going on at once there, and they all somehow manage to sync.The last four tracks are a little less frenetic, if no less involved. The final two in particular \"Note I Love You + 100\" and \"Flue På Veggen\" are more than  24 minutes combined, and they both hit an interesting nerve of crossera aesthetics, particularly in how the former features a mid70s Fender Rhodes that slowly liquefies into a burbling newwave synth, and the latter fuses a disco drum machine with haywire analog burbles, wordless vocal melodies, and crystalline chimes. You can kind of imagine the ingredients for this album coming from a number of different sources prog rock, krautrock, disco, funk, MOR pop, maybe even some folk here and there but at this point there's just so much potential influence it's hard not to hear the whole instead. And it's a hell of a lot of whole, too: It's mellow and smooth and relaxing, sure, but it's also unpredictable and full of little revelations and turns of sound that make it one of space disco's crowning recent achievements. If Lindstrøm and Thomas ever drop a III  on us, it'll have a lot to live up to. "}