{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14070/homepage_large.5fa7163d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Roque Strew","artist":"Ekkehard Ehlers / Paul Wirkus","title":"Ballads","text":" In the percussionist Paul Wirkus, Ekkehard Ehlers has found a kindred spirit: equally restless and equally intelligent. From the thistly early stretches of their new collaboration, it is clear both musicians have an appetite for lofi deconstruction, a weakness for austerity, and, in that always refreshing Staubgold spirit, a bottomless well of ideas for the glitch. Ambitiously linking to a grand Western tradition, one broad enough to accommodate both Robin Hood and Casey Jones, the album title Ballads hints at Ehlers' habit of appropriation.Critics like New York's Jerry Saltz believe that, even today, the concept looms large over the art world, casting a shadow that obscures its values. Certainly, at its bold best, appropriation gave us Warhol and rap: novel creations, biting comments, new avenues for the young to upset the old. But the vigor with which reviewers and consumers lapped it up led to overdemand, then to oversupply, of Xeroxed Pop, overworked breakbeats, bythenumbers conceptualism. Thus much of the meaning and force once bound up with the act of appropriation that sense that no one owned culture, that everyone did, or simply that the wrong people did drained away. You could say that the glitch rose to a similar level of prominence as well, before it became part of everyone's schematic edginess. Where it once pointed to the broken promise of technology, or a human presence amid the machines, it eventually turned into a chic shortcut taken by every student of Ben Gibbard or Scott Herren.Ehlers and Wirkus lobby for a return to the notsoremote past when both appropriation and the glitch held on to some form of expressive power. Toward the beginning of his career, Ehlers borrowed fragments of Schoenberg and, inspired by the Frankfurt School thinkers, glued them together into gorgeously jarring mosaics. Listeners turned into noticers when they encountered this early work, poring over the textures to connect Ehlers' theory to his practice, in a trend that continued with the train of tributes that make up Plays. There, each composition was prefixed with \"Ekkehard Ehlers Plays...\" and ended with iconic names like Albert Ayler and Robert Johnson, echoing the dramatic marketing of old recordings where a titanic pianist took on a titanic composer (think Horowitz Plays Rachmaninoff). The very opposite of a straightforward interpreter (think Robert Lowell), Ehlers' homages bore only a passing resemblance to the honorees, hewing closer to his own fractured dream logic. In his most explicit reference he prefers that term over \"sampling\" his A Life Without Fear sought to recreate, in its creator's image, the perpetual nightfall of blues music.Whatever you want to call it referencing or sampling Ehlers ladles both Alice Coltrane and Henry Flynt into Ballads. In these fleeting studies, it is easy to miss the samples, which either sweep briskly in and out of vision, or shade neatly into the surrounding song. Often the same goes for the guest's instruments, notably Kai Fagaschinksi's clarinet, which can click with the rest of the moving parts into one interlocking whole. The contributions can serve as an invisible foundation at times, as firecracking flourishes at others. (The alternately heavy and light woodwindstring tensions of Politik Braucht Keinen Feind seem to have won Ehlers over.) You can hear Fagaschinki's minimalist presence in \"Bryza\", nicely evoking the breeze of its title. But the dueling doublebass drama carried out by Berlin's Tang and Dafeldecker, of course, is much easier to pick out. On the album's outstanding \"Guma\", the two men have it out, plucking and bowing, before a wild theater of sounds: a boat creak, slashing rotors, pneumatic spray, Wirkus' whisper of tribal drums. There is an ominous hint of violence in every corner of that nearly sixminute scene.Leaning more toward freeform improvisation, Ehlers goes out of his way to avoid loop structures here a decisive break with Wirkus' last two records. In fact, if you trace the flightpath of Wirkus' aesthetic from 2004's Inteletto d'Amore to 2006's Déformation Professionnelle, essentially a Reichian layer cake of MiniDisc loops, an embrace of the nearmystic powers of rhythm seems to be the next stop. On the mysteriously neglected Forest Full of Drums (2008), Wirkus appropriated the rhythms and sounds of nature, dragging a drum kit into the woods. About the outdoorrecording process, Wirkus said: \"Everything was already there. The trees, the wind, the birds, the muddy soil, the undergrowth, playing children, people taking walks, the distant hum of a motorway, and airplanes above. We arrived there as beginners. We had to wait for the right weather.\" Uncooperative weather kept Wirkus and Ehlers from repeating this Jewelled Antler style of production. In a way, this method is the extension of Mille Plateaux logic to its absurd extreme: the click, the cut, the glitch send us from the failed machine back to the edenic forms of nature.So it was no surprise that nature sounds found a way to intrude. The second track, \"Okno\", means \"window\" in Polish and, like the halfcurtained panes on the record's cover, it opens up a narrow portal to the outside world. Wirkus is clearly harkening back to his last record, by prominently placing the wind, which sounds like it is flowing through metal chimes, and the birds, a swarm of chirps straight out of Messaien, in his rustic vision. Before long, this daydreamy section gives way to a more surreal blend, as percussive dials and pops swell into a carnivalesque explosion of notes and lowing cattle. Scientific order and detail abounds, but it is balanced by both members' freejazz passion for chaos (in, for one, the lostinspace tumult of \"Ruchy\") and drift (perfected in the soothing tremolo of \"Wiem\"). This constant motion between precise blitzkrieg and restorative détente sums up the partnership of Ehlers and Wirkus. One small quibble, which also applied to Forest Full of Drums: Almost all of these striking songs could use two or three extra minutes to unfold. Brevity is a virtue, but in the case of these two soundscape architects, listeners will wish the expansive ideas had expansive canvases. "}