{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14067/homepage_large.860f01e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Balmorhea","title":"All Is Wild, All Is Silent","text":" \"Settler\" the multimovement opener of Balmorhea's third album, All Is Wild, All Is Silent serves as much as a proclamation as it does a piece of music: A galloping piano line lifts high and wide, and strings push up from both sides. A razorthin electric guitar and fleet drums add bulk from beneath just before the song's first half empties into silence, the piano notes scattering through the tape like fireworks across a dark sky. A fingerpicked acoustic guitar returns, peaking from beneath the ashes before springing into big, open chords. This time, a larger, more emphatic ensemble joins, offering handclaps alongside a kickdrum and chanted harmonies around the rhythm. Balmorhea formerly so quiet and subtle, a duo plus guests suddenly feel like a large choir stomping and singing behind their minister's springtime revival. For their first two albums, Austin's Balmorhea gingerly augmented basic but beautiful piano and acoustic guitar patterns with electronics, field recordings, and strings to create exquisite if polite instrumental music. Like the minimal wire mobiles of American artist Alexander Calder, the songs were as much about the shadow they cast the full effect of Calder's work depended on the light in the room or the color of the walls; Balmorhea's pliable sound bent to one's emotional state as they were about any specific confluence of notes. But out of the gate, \"Settler\" exclaims an expanded sixpiece lineup and a less nebulous direction, offering the sort of resolution Balmorhea have long foregone. Like \"Gobbledigook\", the handclapheavy pop gem that led Sigur Rós' Með suð í eyrum við spilum endalaust last year, \"Settler\" declares that its makers are capable of something other than slowbuilding brood. That growth  doesn't come without its pains, though. At its worst, All Is Wild recalls watching a oncecharming child transition through a difficult puberty while one can only stand aside, wishing upon it a beautiful adulthood. See, Balmorhea have always made romantic music. For piano, think Philip Glass' Glassworks, not Charlemagne Palestine's  Strumming Music; for guitar, less Takoma, more Windham Hill. But themes that formerly worked as suggestive romantic skeletons become melodramatic and maudlin to the point of distraction here. In fullband form, Balmorhea can sound terribly stiff, hidebound into odd angles by the parts they've built. \"Harm & Boon\", for example, smolders with piano and strings up front but suddenly springs into fullrock mode, a splintering electric guitar grinding across a simple beat. The guitar and the strings move in countering intervals, crisscrossing the rhythm in interlocking webs. The instruments don't move with grace or freedom, though, as much as they simply seem to be reading notes from a page. The movements become awkward tumbles and recoveries, unsuccessful attempts to create musical elasticity that releases and restores potential energy in gallops. The album is even sequenced to that noneffect: Tracks one, three, and five are all distended, jarring pieces with grand crescendos; the evennumbered tunes are like warm tiger balm, gentle numbers meant to massage the tension of their surroundings. Like the tracks themselves, the arches prove a tad mechanical. Despite all this, All Is Wild suggests a bright future for Balmorhea, even if by way of an unfortunate present. Although the band's expanded beyond the spartan approach of its earlier works, the material maintains a blissfully elemental complexity, meaning that even if the lines twist and the crescendos stack Balmorhea's remains the sort of chamber rock music that can be explored in a backyard or in a living room by friends playing without plugs. At its best, it returns demanding classical grandeur to a comfortable folk base. What's more, many of the individual textures and themes here are brilliant, from the patient, walking banjoandguitar line that leads \"Remembrance\" to the strings slashing back through the inspiring build of \"Coahuila\". And the album's closing third three interconnected tunes that rise and slink with a patience that the album's start skips is perfect, steadily winding through radiant acoustic tones. The swells are surefooted, and the various movements seem designed for one another, not simply stapled together. In their own quiet way, these 14 finishing minutes recall Menomena's instrumental opus Under an Hour, which carefully united dozens of divergent themes into one broad, welcoming landscape. Those minutes alone are reason enough to put a lot of faith in Balmorhea's future "}