{"label":" Columbia / Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14080/homepage_large.740bc3dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Jeff Buckley","title":"Grace Around the World","text":" For me, Grace is one of those albums. I remember exactly where I bought it (a longdefunct usedCD store remember those? on Long Island), what the weather was like that day (windowsrolledallthewaydown sunny), and the tingly feeling of discovery while listening to it. A lot of people felt that same way, and when Jeff Buckley died three years after its release, his tragedy only added to what would become a bittersweet obsession. I tore through David Browne's thorough biography, Dream Brother. I bought 2000's stellar live album, Mystery White Boy, the day it came out. I watched the intense Live in Chicago DVD with big eyes. I went to several Jeff Buckley tribute nights in Chicago, where a variety of local talents interpreted their hero's work with sometimesgreat, alwaysreverent covers. I could not get enough of this singer who was equal parts mystic, hippie, romantic, comic, and goofball. And then I got enough.I don't remember exactly when I reached the Buckley threshold. Perhaps during a romcom trailer that used \"Hallelujah\" a bit too liberally. Or maybe the mystique just turned into frustration and then slowly fizzled into nothingness. But I bet that for every person turned on to Jeff Buckley by the endless stream of rehashes and barrelscraping releases, there's probably a onetime die hard fan losing their religion. The person who has embarrassingly belted the Live at Siné version of \"The Way Young Lovers Do\" all 10 minutes of it while cruising between states doesn't need Grace Around the World. The person who has spent hours listening to My Sweetheart the Drunk and daydreaming about the kind of fucked up and beautiful sophomore album Buckley would have made doesn't need it. And neither does the person completely unfamiliar with Jeff there are dozens of superior entry points. I don't need Grace Around the World; you don't need Grace Around the World.Buckley was to be a heritage artist for Columbia, following in the footsteps of Bob Dylan and Bruce Springsteen as a talent who could retain credibility for years, whether or not the public ever came around. When they signed him, they were after credibility and a career with a full catalogue of LPs. At this point, they've got a lengthy Buckley catalogue even though the artist only has one official longplayer to his name. This is problematic. Fan loyalty is difficult to cultivate but dead simple to take advantage of. And Grace Around the World is fairly shameless. The press release touts the deluxe 2xDVD/CD version featuring TV performances from across the globe circa 199495 and the documentary Amazing Grace as \"up to 169 minutes of Jeff Buckley footage,\" infomercial style. And this really does seem to be a quantitynotquality situation.The main DVD showcases every song from Grace (with \"What Will You Say\" swapped in for \"Corpus Christi Carol\", which wasn't played on tour) from television tapings in London, Germany, France, New Orleans, Chicago, and Japan. Since they were being recorded for TV, the audience (if there is an audience) ostensibly isn't filled with Buckley devotees. Perhaps that's one of the reasons many of the songs are not just rote but sort of flat a stark contrast to the raucous Live in Chicago DVD, which showcased an entire gig, betweensong banter and all. Around the World attempts to add some personality to the cobbledtogether footage with snippets of an interview cut between tracks, but the ditsy host asking questions brings out Buckley's sometimesnoxious pretentious side and little else. Made up for the camera and looking tired at best (stiff at worst), few of these performances show Buckley at his prime. The undoubted highlight a sweaty, epic take on \"Lover You Should've Come Over\" is also the only previously released portion of the main program.Meanwhile, the hourlong, 2004 documentary included in the deluxe version of the set, Amazing Grace, is wellintentioned but shoddy. The cheap doc heavily relies on old EPK footage and generally vapid talkinghead commentary from everyone from Sebastian Bach to Duncan Sheik to a random classical composer inspired by Grace. And while the whole package is marketed as a \"love letter\" to fans, true followers will quickly be able to sniff out its inferiorities. If anything, this latest selection from the dwindling Buckley vaults subverts his talents and ultimately insults the same hardcore fans it's aimed at. "}