{"label":" Catsup Plate","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14073/homepage_large.f6bf879a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Animal Collective","title":"Animal Crack Box","text":" It's tempting to say that Animal Crack Box is for Animal Collective diehards only. In one sense, it's true the 1,000 copies of this 3xLP set were likely snapped up by the most committed and intheknow fans. But its musical appeal might seem limited too, at least at first glance. The set is closest in style to two of the band's earliest, strangest releases, records they made when they were bubbling under from basement electronic and noise circles: 2002's Hollinndagain, a freeform collage of loops, chants, and ambience grafted together from live performances, and 2003's Campfire Songs, eerie acoustic improvisations recorded on a rural Maryland porch and drenched in the sounds of rain, wind, and chirping birds. In short, this is Animal Collective at a time when their peers were Black Dice at their most avantgarde and bands on Load Records; a time when they were a largely experimental concern far away from the worlds of songs like \"Fireworks\" and \"My Girls\".But even at its roughest, this inventive collection always sounds like Animal Collective, in ways any fan will recognize. Many of the signature elements they continue to rely on soaring vocals, repetitive rhythms, childlike melodies, buzzing electronics, eerie acoustics are in full bloom here. And though the set consists of material from their infancy (20002003), it sounds less embryonic than lablike, as if their musical nucleus was there from the start, and their task was not to build a core but rearrange those atoms into infinite mutations.Much of that effect is due to excellent selection and sequencing. The band sifted through hundreds of live recordings and practice tapes, and divided the chosen material about 90 minutes worth into six cohesive, eraspecific sides. Side B, for example, offers murky textures from the trio of Avey Tare, Panda Bear, and Geologist around the time of Hollinndagain; Side C, acoustic essays by Avey and Panda in the vein of Campfire Songs; and side E, fullquartet trancerock later perfected on 2003's Here Comes the Indian. The result is wide variety that's rarely schizophrenic. Each side plays like a short story, and the shifts from heavy din to lonely plucks to whooping jams feel natural, much as they have across the band's career as a whole.The variety also gives Animal Crack Box a moodring quality. Which side you prefer will depend on which side of the band you like most, and maybe even on your state of mind. I'm partial to the noisier, denser material found on Side E particularly the fuzzy version of Indian's  \"Hey Light\" and Side A, which peaks when the frenetic \"Ahhh Good Country\" (originally heard on 2001's Danse Manatee) bleeds into the acidic marchband beat of \"Iko Ovo\". But the other end of the set's spectrum is just as entrancing. Take Side C, in which Avey and Panda trade patient vocals and sparse acoustic guitars, recalling the basement hymns of fellow East Coast experimental psych lords Tower Recordings. At side's end, a shorter take on Campfire Songs' \"De Soto De Son\" sounds like a melodic version of Finnish avantfolk. That vibe is matched by the strumhappy Side F, taken mostly from the Avey/Panda duo tours that preceded the release of 2004's Sung Tongs. Those shows proved Animal Collective could sound just as surreal and hypnotic using simple acoustics as they could with electrified overload. Here we get a warped, backandforth take on \"Who Could Win a Rabbit\" and the hissy, Daniel Johnstonlike spook of \"Mouth Wooed Her\".Other sides seem less essential, but none are boring. The predominant feel is meditative, sometimes gentle, catching the vibe of shows that even at their weirdest were, in person, userfriendly. Those séancelike gigs often involved tribal beats, absurd masks, primal chants, and other ritualistic qualities designed to engage those in the room. The Animal Collective of the early 2000s could evoke a more spiritual version of the Sun City Girls, a modern take on Faust and Amon Düül, or a less arty descendent of the Residents but, as Animal Crack Box shows, the band offered a sunnier, more inclusive aura than any of those influences.None of this is news the periods and styles covered on Animal Crack Box have all popped up on previous releases. In that sense, it's simply a welcome addition to Animal Collective's rich body of work. But these are the rawest, most immediate glimpses of the band to date, stripped of the precision afforded by studio revision. If some of it sounds hazy, well, freeze frames from fastmoving films tend to look a little blurry, and Animal Crack Box vividly demonstrates how this band and its music are always a work in progress. "}