{"label":" Sonig","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14082/homepage_large.e68245e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jessica Suarez","artist":"Kevin Blechdom","title":"Gentlemania","text":" Kevin Blechdom's discography is packed with reliable anomalies. So much so that it's almost pointless to mention that she was onehalf of the (newly reunited) electronic duo Blectum From Blechdom. After eight years and a few solo albums, the glitchy, rude electronic music she made with partner Blevin Blectum tells you little about how she got to where she is, and a lot about the kinds of musical leaps Blechdom makes from record to record.Gentlemania is just the latest of Blechdom's albums about relationships. On 2005's Eat My Heart Out, she packed in confessional songs, tracks that wrapped heartache in humor. Blechdom spilled her guts, both literally (the cover features her topless with a handful of animal entrails) and figuratively, though she did so over programed pop ballads and cheery musical numbers. Three years earlier, on I Heart Presets, Blechdom made tender tracks about labelmate Miguel Depedro (Kid606). She's gotten wiser over time, observing love as an absurdity far stranger than the absurdities she'd imagined on past records. And her music has fallen into more recognizable genre conventions, as if Blechdom's decided her feelings were scrambled and jarring enough on their own.Her genre is emotion, not sound. Though Gentlemania cycles through a few (musical theater pomp, bluegrass, torch song), it feels closest to the light pop of 1970s and 80s confessional singersongwriters, their mix of vulnerability and wry selfawareness. \"Lazy\", swings back and forth with its pretty piano chorus and whistled melody. It sways somewhere between the lovelorn soullite of Tapestryera Carole King, and the breezy quirk of, say, Captain and Tenille. The profane, jokey nature of her past albums gives way to a sweetly innocent lyrical sense, delivered in Blechdom's boyish voice. On \"It's All Been Done Before\", she calls her lover the \"best thing since sliced bread\" and the one curse word in \"Lazy\", is blocked out by a slide whistle.Blechdom's songwriting partner and producer, Mocky, deserves a lot of credit for the evenness and subtle complexity of these songs, hinting at different genres and moods without spilling over into comedy or arbitrary stylistic variation. Knowing exactly when to crescendo, or when to drop in a chorus of backing voices, makes Blechdom's simplest songs sound bigger, torchier. It's nice to see Blechdom find places where vulnerability doesn't equal weakness. Across Gentlemania she says \"please\" but never begs. She doles out equal amounts of selfcriticism and complaints. On \"Monster\", a highlight that, unlike most of the other tracks, indulges in ballsout bluegrass banjo and uninhibited \"yeehaws,\" her twang wraps around an admission: \"My brain don't work/ My heart's a jerk,\" she admits. Joke songs are never this apologetic, nor are they usually followed by a song as pretty and heartfelt as \"Running Away\", where Blechdom realizes that she must put off a relationship until she and her lover are more mature, just so the two \"won't feel so alone.\"Still, I didn't expect that Blechdom's wild imagination would lead her so close to convention. And so there are elements of Gentlemania where it's hard to tell if she's included them because they're par for the genre, or because she's falling into cliché. She's too smart for the latter, though I wonder why she uses boilerplate wordplay (\"I need the rest of you/ I need a rest from you,\" \"Don't think it over/ Don't think it's over,\" \"It's all been done before/ But we're not done for\") so often. There's something sweet about Blechdom making an album this earnest, but I miss her perverse sense of humor. No point in asking after it or saying you'd like to hear something different next time; she's probably two albums ahead anyway. "}