{"label":" Vagrant","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14089/homepage_large.7eda6609.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Eels","title":"Hombre Lobo: 12 Songs of Desire","text":" The central metaphor of 2005's \"Railroad Man\" worked harder than a steam engine to convey the idea that Mark Everett (aka E, for all intents and purposes, Eels) just wasn't made for these times. I call bullshit: Considering Everett's prolific nature, restless manner with aliases, and disdain of the music industry, you'd figure the internet age would result in an outpouring of more Eels material than ever before. So how is the 40minutesandchange Hombre Lobo, Eels' first collection of new songs in four years?Could be that Blinking Lights and Other Revelations was something of a career ender. This isn't to be confused with a career killer; on the contrary, Blinking Lights was the best Eels record since 1998's ElectroShock Blues. But it's a record that would be tough to top if only because it felt unnecessary to follow up, serving as a comprehensive Guide to All Things Eels, E's lyrical and musical themes attacked from every angle. At second glance though, Blinking Lights' consistency was borne out of similarity. It's incredibly easy to write an Eels song these days: pick a descending chord progression, force some rhymes on the title, and you're on your way. Perhaps you'll be more excited about making an Eels record than E seems here, as he scribbles through the 12 Songs of Desire like they were moderately difficult crosswords.  From what I could tell, Hombre Lobo wasn't supposed to end up that way. Considering the title, it set out to tap into man's more primal needs, but emotionally and musically, E's pretty much been going it alone since the jump. Opener \"Prizefighter\" initially recalls Souljacker's hairyknuckledragging \"Dogfaced Boy\", the song that ushered in Everett's Unabomber look and undisputedly his weakest stretch of music. In between blues explosion howling, it gives you headslap titular rhymes like \"go allnighter\" and \"don't do it wrong, doitrighter.\" And while \"Tremendous Dynamite\" and \"What's a Fella Gotta Do\" sorta rock, they rock pretty hard for Eels songs, but I can't imagine that Hombre Lobo is going to be anyone's primary source for hot riffs, not when E is still deadpanning his way through lyrics like, \"You really know what makes me sad/ Your disinterest is driving me mad,\" and, \"I'm so tired of the same old crud/ My sweet baby, I need fresh blood.\" The tracks on Hombre Lobo that aren't jukejoint pastiche sink into Everett's comfort zone of impotent longing, the trouble with dreams, and the general shittiness of putting your faith in other people. As someone who's been following him for damn near a decade and a half, there's still enough suction in Everett's seemingly bottomless vortex of selfpity. Like most of E's best songs, \"The Look You Give That Guy\" turns an unrequited crush into an intense selfloathing the key isn't that the object of his desire would be better off with him, but his simple wish that \"if I were that guy instead of me, I'd never let you down.\" But I wonder if the success of \"The Look\" is more due to its sequencing, since similarly themed and composed tracks down the line such as \"The Longing\" and \"In My Dreams\" fail to deliver any sort of lasting effect, ultimately coming off like E could spend the rest of his life writing variations of \"Ugly Love\".But while it's somewhat hopeless to think E could write about something other than hopelessness, Hombre continues his misguided decision to let his lyrics take the forefront over frail and unencumbered arrangements. \"Beginner's Luck\" and \"Fresh Blood\" both approach R&B cautiously, the former copping a bouncy Motown vibe while the latter almost recalls the heavily sampled \"Message From a Black Man\". Yet each is treated with the same dry, flat bandinabox recording that, once again, reminds me how long it's been since I've listened to Chocolate and Cheese.  It would be too easy to dog Hombre Lobo as a case where going back to the well leads to diminishing returns, but the problem is just that Hombre Lobo is too easy. For all the emotional polarity E hopes to convey, too much of Hombre sports the facility of a jingle the contours of the lyrics and music so predetermined that Everett could just as easily be singing about free credit reports. Granted, E's arguably catering only to people who were stuck off the realness of ElectroShock Blues to the point where they managed to get to Blinking Lights, but as an intermittently proud member of that group, I'll admit that Hombre Lobo feels like an appendix to a predecessor that hardly needed more of the same. "}