{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14086/homepage_large.d2ebee7d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Iggy Pop","title":"Préliminaires","text":" It's hard not to root for Iggy Pop. At the very least, his initial tenure with the Stooges earned him more than his share of bricks in the modern rock foundation. Beyond that, his very survival in the face of untold selfdestruction merits a few slaps on the back, too, and his first two solo albums, recorded with the help of buddy and benefactor David Bowie, remain classics in their own right. Since then, however, there's hardly been an Iggy Pop record worth listening to more than once, if that, and sadly that includes the unlikely Stooges reunion record, The Weirdness. With the untimely passing of Stooges guitarist Ron Asheton, that reunion unfortunately becomes a oneoff, and sends Iggy back to wandering the wilderness as a solo artist.Of course, given his allovertheplace career, there's no reason to believe Iggy wouldn't have made Préliminaires, the followup to The Weirdness and the first Iggy Pop solo disc since 2003's Skull Ring, anyway. Still, Préliminaires comes as a sharp left turn: Inspired by The Possibility of an Island by blithely provocative French novelist (and occasional filmmaker and musician) Michel Houellebecq, Préliminaires \"comes dangerously near jazz,\" Pop claims in the press notes, clearly forgetting, like everyone else, that he recorded some of the shitty Avenue B with Medeski, Martin & Wood. But in truth Préliminaires is less jazz than Iggy Pop as Europop, á la Leonard Cohen circa I'm Your Man, crooning over a bed of mostly mushy and melancholy electronics and beats.Préliminaires was recorded largely with collaborator Hal Cragin, who may as well be Hal Wilner for all the satisfaction he takes in tossing Iggy in relatively unfamiliar waters. But Pop makes the most of his new environment to expand his palette and his palate in one fell swoop. Heck, the disc even begins with Iggy mumbling Joseph Kosma and Jacques Prévert's \"Les Feuilles Mortes\" in French! ceding the microphone for a swooning smooth sax solo, about the last thing anyone would have expected from him, but yet further proof that the singer is not the dum dum boy people have always made him out to be.Recasting himself as a Gallic crooner isn't necessarily a smart move, granted, but it is audacious, and amidst the drifting ennui Iggy demonstrates his trademark nihilism does translate even distantly removed from his caveman roots. \"It's nice to be dead/ It's nice to be underground/ Free of the ugly sounds of life,\" intones Pop on \"Nice to Be Dead\", one of the more memorable tracks on the album, and also one of the few that veers closer to rock than easy listening. The sentiment's a fine epigraph for a singer several lives beyond his allotted nine but clearly comfortable where's he landed late in his career. Plus, even if the music rarely rises to such rousing heights elsewhere, Iggy's lyrical passenger is still clearly riding through the city's backsides, taking notes.Elsewhere Iggy contemplates death by the sea (\"Spanish Coast\"), covers Jobim (\"How Insensitive\"), slops out some existential blues (\"He's Dead/She's Alive\"), and goes faux disco with the blasé irony of \"Party Time\". \"It's party time,\" he grumbles, \"and I smell slime/ The stupid people/ Make me evil.\" It's a misanthropic sentiment worthy of the Stooges in their prime, but here Iggy sounds beaten, the lyrics revealing his innermost thoughts even as his body goes through the motions.\"Like Daniel, [The Possibility of an Island's] protagonist, I too have grown weary of a career as an entertainer, and I wish for a new life,\" revealed Iggy Pop in a statement perhaps not out of character for a highly physical (and likely perpetually sore) rock star in his sixties. Weary it (and he) does sound here, beaten, even bored, if not outright boring. But by being boring on purpose, Iggy ironically proves himself oddly more compelling than on his many past accidents. If it's not an album for the ages so much as for the aged, at least it's one you may want to hold on to a bit and give another shot when you get closer to where Iggy's at himself right now. "}