{"label":" What's Your Rupture?","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14096/homepage_large.c02b0a1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Love Is All","title":"Last Choice EP","text":" Don't be fooled by the selfdeprecating title of Love Is All's newest EP. Last Choice is anything but. It takes its name from its title track, the stunning, swaggering discoish standout that first appeared on the Swedes' sophomore fulllength, A Hundred Things That Keep Me Up At Night, and though the EP's five other songs are all new Bsides, they don't sound like leftovers. In fact, the EP's main fault is that it's too short; these five new songs deserve to be paired with another five on a fulllength. With each subsequent effort Love Is All refine their sound, and Last Choice suggests their best work could actually be yet to come. Though they started as spazzy noisniks who joyously shouted and pounded so loudly that it was often hard to hear the \"pop\" in their heavily rhythmic pop anthems, on A Hundred Things they exerted more control over their delightfully messy sonics and placed greater emphasis on their wonderfully descriptive and direct lyrics.With their mastery of richly detailed yet simple storytelling, Love Is All offer lyrics that crackle with added resonance. Often overshadowed by the spastic din of her bandmates, singer Josephine Olausson's warbled words now have the space to be heard. So though the title track will immediately win listeners over with its glammy, steel drumslike keyboard intro and a plinky, saxstudded melodic interlude ripped from Bruce Springsteen's \"Rosalita\", it will earn repeated plays with its straightforward depiction of the kind of endoftheparty loneliness that leads one to go home with their \"Last Choice\": \"The same song is on repeat, something inappropriately upbeat/ And now people leave handinhand, as if according to some mysterious plan/ I'm about to be left alone, I'm sitting on the sofa on my own.\"Olausson has intermittent regard for pop rhyme schemes and seems to care even less if her chosen words fit into the music's allotted space, either hurrying over syllables or drawing them out over extra beats. But her offkilter delivery with its emphasis on her hard Scandinavian \"r\"s, babydollvoiced runon sentences, and explosive caterwaul adds character to her distinctive, firstperson narratives. Who knows if the songs on Last Choice are autobiographical, but Olausson's unselfconscious approach to her subjects she often presents them at their worst, most selfish, or loneliest makes her a rare vanityfree frontperson. \"Early Warnings\", a Yeah Yeah Yeahsish stomp, describes an accidentprone, very bad morningafter. On \"Jealousy\" Olausson takes the guise of a demanding girlfriend having a public fight with her boyfriend, and \"Vans Vans Vans\", which returns to the harderhitting, fuzzier, more lofi aesthetic of Love Is All's first album, recounts unglamorous tales from the road.If the band believes that their debut was, in fact, nine different versions of the same song (as its title jokingly claimed), then they must be proud of Last Choice's diversity. They display comfort with jangly, Cleanlike pop (as on \"From Your Corner\") and surprising agility with heartbroken, tambourineaided twee (as on \"Loud Heart\"), as well as repledging their allegiance to the funky, manic postpunk that they made their name on. This EP may be short it's less than 19 minuteslong but it makes a very big statement about the future of this Swedish quintet: They've only just begun to show what they can do. "}