{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14103/homepage_large.de5cd6fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Khanate","title":"Clean Hands Go Foul","text":" Clean Hands Go Foul, the fourth and likely final fulllength from late experimental metal outsiders Khanate, deserves a warning label: \"Not recommended for those with mildtosevere mental disturbances,\" it could read before countering, \"Well, just promise not to hurt anyone, OK?\" Its brittle, monstrous tones shake whatever space they enter. Riffs coil, shatter, and splinter into notes that disperse like buckshot. Words trade mythology for purely imagistic hatred. You could imagine Khanate pushing some feeble soul over the edge.This was true of Khanate on their previous LPs, but Clean Hands Go Foul which the band recorded in 2005 before breaking up in 2006 ups the aggression until it feels like a score for nervous breakdowns and wanton rampages. Khanate once found a riff and marched behind it, cutting it open and bleeding it until but a din of feedback or a vortex of noise remained. Clean Hands doesn't worry so much for the riff or the rhythms, though. Instead, it aims directly for the blood, or the sense that these songs are for, well, ending the world. Cuddly stuff, really.The world's full of misanthropic and menacing music, but Khanate exist within a fairly isolated subset for their sonic, structural, and thematic instability. First, Stephen O'Malley, Alan Dubin, James Plotkin, and Tim Wyskida rarely cloak their implements of aggression. The lyrics share a pristine space with the monolithic guitar, drums, and bass, and Dubin crawls in front or slinks in the back as the moment demands. His piercing voice never needed much manipulation to be convincing, so most every word rings loud and clear. That is, when he opens the album screaming, \"It went down bad, and it's a sad life/ When angels break so easily,\" his clear words don't need much context, though those macheteshaped guitars behind him don't hurt. Or, on the sporadically escalating, painfully patient 33minute closer, \"Every God Damn Thing\", you understand Dubin when he moans, \"Out there, someone's dying/ Hopefully/ It should be all of them/ I'  d step on them if I could.\" Especially in extreme forms like metal, noise, and industrial music, bands often cloak their darkest thoughts in walls of distortion or the clangor of the surrounding instruments. Think about how many black metal lyrics you've easily picked out, or how many power electronics ideas you've spotted without liner notes. Khanate demand you intellectualize their verbal despair in realtime. And just in case you can't, the lyrics are reprinted in plain text.Khanate have always done that, though. What makes Clean Hands Go Foul the quartet's most menacing but intriguing effort ever is its new propensity for misdirection. Khanate don't push like metal, pull like drone, or raze like noise. Rather, it does all of those things in fitfully unpredictable fashion. Indeed, what's perhaps most frustrating about the band's breakup is, by this session, they'd become perfectionists in torturing by teasing. If not improved, their musicianship had certainly become more interesting. Tim Wyskida, for instance, used to lash at the backs of his bandmates, moving in obsequy. But here he gallivants with a heavy jazz freedom, suggesting Sunny Murray's roaming mind in Chris Hakius' powerful frame. Again on \"Wings From Spine\", Wyskida avoids any semblance of pattern. He trips through the kit, spinning cymbals around, slapping and silencing them in a single second. \"In That Corner\" continually approaches a groove, but the beat keeps splitting apart at the seams. The drums spill between the bass crests, and the guitar zips off in the opposite direction. Beneath its own topheavy trudge, the track finally collapses. Plotkin's bass looms like a thunderhead, while the disappearing drums and trickling guitar splash against each other like puddles and raindrops.As sinister and frightening as these tracks might be to newcomers, both Khanate fans and slowmusic enthusiasts might want to avoid the last number, the moribund \"Every God Damn Thing\". Before this last bit, Clean Hands is a fine Khanate EP. After \"Every God Damn Thing\", it's a mandatory finale. It's a sign of real Khanate progress right before the dreaded breakup. A fantastic study in the newfound patience of a very loud band that's discovered intensity can also be found in stillness, \"Every God Damn Thing\" presages the mix of acoustic and electric instruments on Sunn O)))'s Monoliths & Dimensions. Over 33 minutes, Khanate creep, generating tones to let them dissipate, howling about hell and deformed children to let those thoughts evaporate. Its deliberate movement recalls experimental Japanese electronic music and Derek Bailey's freeform guitar explorations. By the time Khanate hit the 30 minute mark, they're roaring glacially, huge cymbal splashes and rolls splattering against roiling bass and guitar and what might be Dubin's quintessential Khanate statement: \"It's all bad again/ It's all bad/ Get out my head.\"Too bad the band, presumably done forever, took that as its credo, too. "}