{"label":" Tempa","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14098/homepage_large.f4d4bf8e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"El-B","title":"The Roots of El-B","text":" Buyer beware: A rippedtodigital copy of The Roots of ElB, run through your offtherack laptop, could turn you into one of those fogies lamenting the loss of oldfashioned, aroundtheroom speaker placement. Dance music always mutates, usually in predictable ways, when repackaged for CD, thanks to all the familiar sonic limitations of home playback devices. (No earbuds will ever work as proper bass bins when they're not even designed with the same net effect in mind.) The dance fan makes peace that she's buying a compromised product, or at least something she has to learn to hear and enjoy minus the thick, 3D depth of a really sweet club sound system. This cruel squishing of nuance is old news to anyone who owns more than one singleartist singles collection purchased from the electronic section.And The Roots of ElB could potentially suffer more than most, because this is gloriously thick, 3D, nuanced dance music. ElB is one of several pseudonyms adopted by UK producer Lewis Beadle in the late 1990s/early 00s, the moment when seriousminded dubstep first threatened to secede from London's happygolucky garage culture. For a time, ElB was a master of taking UK garage's bright and peppy grooves and perverting them with slow, mean, overwhelming basslines. It was a lowend sound that was mechanically alienating, like wobbling bursts of betweenstations radio fuzz squeezed and molded until fat and spherical. But ElB also loved a freeflowing, almost formless sensation of pure weight, holding a flame to the coiling blines of Jamaican dub until the shape melted away.Unfortunately, pace my opening graf, you're going to get only a pale approximation of this totalizing oomph, of how these basslines could feel like concrete slowly setting in the spaces between dancers. Thankfully ElB also produced what so many of his dubstepidentified followers did (or could) not: gloriously intricate rhythms, their brittle timbre just about perfect for the thin topend that's usually the bane of the bargain stereo. Each tune is built on a dizzying drum track, uniform in their postjungle approach to fractured but tightly arranged rhythm, but never samey sounding like the dullest twostep drum'n'bass. A jerking or clonking kick drum reminds you this is body music, while ElB swings severely syncopated hihats and snares that verge on disorienting if followed too closely. He then maps out every remaining millisecondsized nook and cranny between the tautly stitched beats, and somehow finds room for horns (\"Express\"), vocal samples (\"Lyrical Tempo\"), and a myriad of little percussion flourishes (just about every track). ElB's genius is in, say, the way he keeps throwing maddening didIactuallyjusthearthat? offbeats and rhythmic feints into the mesh of jazzy brass stabs and garage drums on \"Among the Stars\", while keeping things orderly enough to suit dancers who don't have the luxury of hitting rewind to pick apart his grooves for a second or third time.The tidiness of his microedited rhythms means some of the tracks could sound repetitive, rather than hypnotic, on first listen. Crank a seemingly static track like \"Digital\", however, and all of a sudden you notice how elastically the bassline stretches around and between the implacable snare cracks. The slithers of cymbal and spasms of snare that add little spikes of energy to a groove that might otherwise drag. The patiently layered horror movie synth drones, blowing over the groove like cold winds. While The Roots of ElB isn't all \"dark swing,\" to use a phrase bandied around the scene for a minute before \"dubstep\" finally stuck, it is helpful to remember that Beadle was one of the key producers in (for better or worse) moving UK garage away from the sugary, fullvocal pop remixes of its crossover heyday. Like many dance music fulllengths, The Roots of ElB demands devotion to pure rhythm, a willingness to trade songs for the percussive arrangement of pure sound, rewarding your fealty to syncopation more richly than most. "}