{"label":" Common Cloud","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14097/homepage_large.24685fa9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Sister Suvi","title":"Now I Am Champion","text":" Sister Suvi are a strange meeting of three very different minds. Strangest of the three is Merrill Garbus (tUnEYaRds), whose swooping voice and arch ukulele make her sound like she just escaped from the circus. Drummer Nico Dann is her opposite: a fiendishly precise percussionist with jazzbo credentials, Dann is as straight and unflappable as a Hal Hartley leading man. And Patrick Gregoire (also of Islands), a selfdescribed indie rock guy with a moaning tenor, is the fulcrum. I first caught Sister Suvi on a bill with Canadian compatriots Shapes and Sizes, who are another eclectic and freethinking band with an engaging female lead beside a stolid male. But Sister Suvi rightly took the headlining spot: where that band has found its style in fits and starts, Sister Suvi jumped in up to their chin. The \"Montoronto\"based trio brings a raft of influences to their first fulllength, Now I Am Champion, and it takes a couple of listens to enjoy all its strengths. The first impression, from singles like the breakneck \"The Lot\" or Zeppelinesque \"Golden\", is of an offkilter indie rock act.  The production is raw but muddy, and when the songs get loud and all of them do the guitars smear and the vocals can be a blur. But then you catch the stellar bass lines (by both Gregoire and Garbus), the groovy shimmy of \"Desolation\", and the jazz/reggae rhythm and psychotic lyrics of \"American\". The threepart harmonies are brash but complex, and Dann’s drum parts are relentlessly fascinating. And Garbus sports a uke, but she never treats it gently: The amplification makes it an aggressive lead instrument, and it also sounds great bowed, as on \"Longlegs\". All three member split lead vocals, but when Garbus takes the mic, she risks stealing the show.  Each of her songs sticks her in a new weird character, tossing political and religious signifiers like cherry bombs and giving the album its centerpiece on \"American\", a song that mixes the daffy with the depraved: Even as she waxes poetic about her \"tushy,\" she sings a song about a love so destructive that it has to see guts and flesh to feel realized.  Whether it's about obsessive love, or an allegory for how we like to export the American dream gunsfirst, the song is a captivating horror show. The weird whoops and calls on title track \"Champion\" may warm up the song, but you'll stay for the chorus, where Garbus tears loose: Her wail is huge and vast, and the band rises just as quickly. As the most flamboyant member of the trio it would be easy for her to dominate it, and thankfully she doesn't.  Sister Suvi are a collaborative trio, three different but equal partners who just found a repertoire that set them all on fire.  And they sound like they're just getting started. "}