{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14104/homepage_large.0f773ace.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"Eugene McGuinness","title":"Eugene McGuinness","text":" On his 2007 minialbum The Early Learnings of Eugene McGuinness, the London musician sang catchyashell songs about videogames, crushes, imaginary monsters, and the concomitant glee and panic of being a little kid lost in the supermarket. Full of crackling poprocks and snapping bottle caps, McGuinness' debut was an irresistible, effervescent piece of juvenilia. A couple of critical years later and he's graduated to more mature themes: sex, love, work, God, old movies, outer space, circuses... well, some of them are more mature, anyway. His songwriting, however, hasn't really made the same incremental progress.The freshscrubbed but worldly wise McGuinness on the cover of his selftitled debut resembles a young John Lennon. But the 22year old loosely participates in a different British pop tradition that of showmen, storytellers, and social commentators like Ray Davies, Paul Weller, Damon Albarn, Jarvis Cocker, and Eddie Argos. It's worth emphasizing the British part of this inheritance, because its wry, witty, oftironic observations usually for whatever reason get lost in translation during the transatlantic crossing. McGuinness can post all the Ramones covers he wants on his MySpace page, but with his logorrheic wordplay, Vaudevillian sensibility, and distinctly English inflection, he's about as likely to break his forebears' New World curse as Pete Doherty. Even if you're inclined toward highstreet level closeups of old Blighty, songs like sashaying barroompiano number \"Atlas\" or sticky stringed, betweenthewars throwback \"Those Old Black and White Movies Were True\" are little more than genre exercises. McGuinness packs so many retro idioms skiffle, Mersey beat, honkytonk, doowop, even ballroom dance rhythms (not to mention the usual punk, pop, and folk conventions) into the album's 12 tracks, that he's more star pupil upstaging his peers at a student recital than someone you'd pay a cover charge to see.McGuinness hasn't entirely misplaced the pop gifts or snakecharming skills hinted at on Early Learnings; even if it's mostly downhill from there, the album's opening triad is clearfocused and engaging. \"Rings Around Rosa\", a short'n'sweet tribute to cradlerobbing, gets things off to a breathless start with its furious strumming and uncaged beats, followed by newwave singalong \"Fonz\", and delightfully subversive \"Wendy Wonders\", which invites you to chacha with \"a fuckedup bastard, a subzero psycho\" and the girl who loves him. But even with two selftitled releases and undeniable charisma, Eugene McGuinness, the artist, is still a little undefined, an intersection of musical vectors rather than a single strong signature. Let's chalk it up to growing pains and watch how early learnings further develop into an adult style. "}