{"label":" Cash Money / Universal Motown / Young Money Entertainment","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14122/homepage_large.ecdcf6f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Lil Wayne","title":"Rebirth","text":" It could be worse. \"Everybody say they just do it, well, I just don't,\" claims Lil Wayne on Rebirth, his unlikely, unqualified, and quite unbelievable rock album. And he's speaking the truth: This album is not the logical official followup to 2008's bestselling Tha Carter III. At all. In any way. For that, he deserves credit. Considering Wayne is a man whose artistic aims apparently involve 1) Collecting oiltycoon cash, 2) Having sex with several women at once, and 3) Concocting the world's finest excrementrelated rhymes, Rebirth is most definitely a flop, terribly unsexy, and contains surprisingly few shit jokes. Wayne is playing against type here. \"When I play sick, I'm Jordan with the flu,\" he boasts on the album, referring to Jordan's classic game against the Jazz. And in general, that's true; but here Wayne is like Mike with pneumonia and a broken leg... playing baseball.In the mid 1980s, RunD.M.C. used distorted guitars and stadiumrock drums to help break hiphop into the mainstream. Now, one of the world's biggest rappers is using the same tools to make a niche record only a diehard could truly love. That flip says as much about hiphop's current state of evolution (shaky) as it does about Lil Wayne's current commercial predicament. Although his recent mixtape was dubbed No Ceilings, the pressure of success and the idea that he'll never top the millioninaweek phenomenon that was Tha Carter III is naturally weighing on Wayne. He may never have a single as big as \"Lollipop\" or reach the level of universal relevancy to warrant another prime time interview with Katie Couric. He seems to realize this on Rebirth.\"Call me crazy, I've been called worse/ It's like I have it all, but what's it all worth?\" asks Wayne on \"Paradice\", a Miltonian epic about the trappings of super stardom that aims for Axl Rose, Use Your Illusionstyle heights. The closest he comes to an answer to that question is on \"Drop the World\", where he combats paranoia by threatening to \"pick the world up and drop it on your fuckin' head!\" It's a hilarious image that would serve as an incredible exaggerated parody of Linkin Park angst if the song wasn't dead serious a fact confirmed by a martyrme guest shot from Eminem, who himself still sounds like he's coming to grips with the fact that he'll never be as famous as he once was.\"Drop the World\" also contains another key lyric from Wayne: \"The spot get smaller and I get bigger/ Tryin' to get in where I fit in, no room for a nigga.\" The lines hint at the notion of Rebirth being something of a copout, i.e., if he can't top himself, he's just going to scratch away everything that makes him great. So instead of rapping we get gurgled AutoTune chirps and squeals that often nullify his oneinabillion elastic croak. Instead of nextlevel clever punchlinesinsideofpunchlines we get pure highschool inanity or swear parades deserving of a soapy mouthwash. According to Wayne, rock music combines the cokedout idiocy of Sunset Strip hair metal with the processed rage of Bizkited headbanging. Understandably, the combination can be abhorrent. The choice to cannibalize two of rock's least respectable styles against each other makes zero sense, and is especially surprising from someone obsessed with André 3000, whose similarly risky 2003 genre switch up, The Love Below, wisely borrowed from Prince more than Evanescence.But even with Rebirth's crushing lows and Wayne's imminent jail sentence thanks to a guilty plea on attempted gun possession charges there is little reason to doubt the 27yearold's future as an enterprising, Grammyhighlighting superstar of the most esteemed set. \"Confidence is the stain they can't wipe off,\" he says on the record, and he's right. A big part of his magnetism relies on unpredictability and his willingness to reside in a personal realm where trends, gimmicks, and gravity are of little concern. In that more ideological and less critical mindset, Rebirth is an oddball win. His stillimpressive productivity rate also cushions the blow thanks to No Ceilings, we know the guy's rapping abilities are still sharp. And, on the same day Rebirth saw release, Wayne also put out a brand new nonalbum cut called \"Fuck Today\" that combines rap and rock with more aplomb than anything on the new LP. The track is diabolical and political, recalling Ice Cube in his early90s prime. And it makes you think the proposition of a Rebirth II might not be so awful. I mean, it could be better. "}