{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14126/homepage_large.1f6f0cb4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"The Curious Mystery","title":"Rotting Slowly","text":" Oh man, I could really go for some TexMex right about now. New York's mostly meh burrito situation and my still eating 'em all the time anyway aside, when you're a dutiful digital audio consumer, sometimes you've gotta run for the border. Round these parts that usually means Calexico, a Tejanotinged indie rock group as picturesquely perfect for their fine Tucson, Ariz., as a Saguaro cactus in rosy sunset silhouette. But you can go back as far as you want: If you believe Lester Bangs, Ritchie Valens' \"La Bamba\" begat every punk rock song ever. If you believe fellow critic Chuck Eddy, Babe Ruth's \"The Mexican\" begat every disco song ever. And if you believe rock, punk, disco, all that stuff exists to be contrary, to take people's expectations and give 'em a good poke in the eyeball to the point where it's almost not contrary to be contrary anymore then you shouldn't even be surprised. Of course, rock would thrive in the desert. Whadda punk.The Curious Mystery aren't from the desert. They're from Seattle. Doesn't matter. As soon as Shana Cleveland starts in with that smoky drawl \"If I go blind/ Hangin' out by a riverside/ Just stay with me\" we're at the base of a rusty gorge with Cat Power on a Mazzy Starry night. (By the time Cleveland breaks off for an enigmatic chuckle, 10 tracks in, you're wondering whether she's really a safe person to stay with alone by a riverside on a night such as this.) Nicolas Gonzalez is a javelinacharmer on electric guitar and homemade Theremin. Add drummer Faustine B. Hudson and bass player Bradford Button, and you've got a fourpiece doing unhurried psychblues, autoharp ghost songs, and Area 51 garageAmericana, with plenty of that old frontier promise. Their debut LP might not be exactly what Kurdt Cobain used to expect from K Records you noticed the title's Rotting Slowly, right? but the Curious Mystery are well within the spirit of former Come frontwoman Thalia Zedek's unsentimental smolder. And when you get right down to it, who's the bigger outlaw: Calvin Johnson, or some schmo who can't drive just 55? Why is Sammy Hagar the one with his own brand of tequila?Nobody ever tells the Grand Canyon to get to the damn point, and at times the Curious Mystery's slowburning expansiveness helps set a nice acidWestern mood. Instrumentals undergo shifts both rhythmic and dynamic, showcasing Gonzalez's stormy leads, while even at Rotting Slowly's most lyrical, on vivid and forceful standout \"Black Sand\" or the tenderly wasted \"Go Forth and Gather\", the Curious Mystery are rarely far from Beach House's druggy languour. \"You are the type that only moves slowly/ And I am the same,\" Cleveland murmurs on spindly epic \"Outta California\". When she isn't singing, though, these cowboyjunkie dirges tend to drift. And watch out for occasional clumsy overseriousness on the Gonzalezsung \"Strong Swimmers\", with its Sonic Youth dissonance, two people are unlike everybody else in that they can swim, except it turns out they actually can't swim (see, a metaphor can bloom in the desert!). The Curious Mystery have the Southwestern scenery down pretty well. Now they just need to improve the accomodations for us city slickers. A guy can't live on Cabo Wabo alone. ...Or can I? "}