{"label":" Shout! Factory","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14135/homepage_large.461e2e6a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Richard Thompson","title":"Walking on a Wire: Richard Thompson (1968-2009)","text":" Walking on a Wire isn't Richard Thompson's first boxed set: that was 1993's 3xCD Watching the Dark, which compiled studio and live recordings from the breadth of the great British singer/guitarist's career (about a third of them previously unreleased) in an order that tossed chronology to the winds in favor of musical flow. It's also not his second boxed set: that was 2006's 5xCD RT: The Life and Music of Richard Thompson, which was almost entirely unreleased recordings, arranged thematically.This one is a straightup career retrospective: one magnificent song apiece from the first five Fairport Convention records (the era in which he was the indestructible folkrock group's fulltime lead guitarist and occasional songwriter), and then at least a track or two from each of Thompson's studio albums with and without Linda Thompson (except, oddly, 2005's Front Parlour Ballads), a handful of his live records, and a couple of his other albumlength projects. There's nothing from his session work with other artists, no discographical oddities, no previously unheard material, and very little regard for sequencing or musical contextualization. It's just a Man, This Guy's Made a Lot of Albums infodump, a primer for those who have not yet been converted to this cultiest of musicians and therefore don't understand why it's an international disgrace that \"Withered and Died\" and \"I Feel So Good\" are not generally available at karaoke bars.The problem with acolytes is that we tend to go on a bit too long about our heroes, and Walking on a Wire's andthenhemadethisrecord enthusiasm turns exhausting over the course of four discs. (Including six songs from 1974's epochal I Want to See the Bright Lights Tonight was a good idea. Including six songs from 1994's shaky Mirror Blue wasn't. The five songs from his two collaborations with Danny Thompson are at least four and a half too many.) Song for song, though, there's a lot of remarkable stuff here. In particular, the first two discs (which go up to 1985's Across a Crowded Room) aren't faultless, but they're fantastic. Thompson had an old man's gravitas from the getgo Fairport's \"Meet on the Ledge\" is probably the most emotionally weathered lookingbackatyouth song ever written by a 20yearold and the six albums he made with Linda anchor their precisiontooled craftsmanship and erotic tension with the deeper resonances of the British folk music that's always informed Thompson's songs.The second half of the box is spottier, not because Thompson lost his songwriting mojo altogether \"Gethsemane\" and \"Beeswing\" are right up there among the peaks of his repertoire but because the split with Linda was roughly the point at which Thompson the songwriter began to stiffen and peel apart from Thompson the guitarist and live performer. (The bigbang production of his 80s and early90s records hasn't aged well, either.) One thing he lost when he no longer had a woman to sing his words was an easy cue that his lyrics might not be a direct expression of his own experience, so they shifted more toward obvious fictions and character sketches as his singing grew more mannered. \"1952 Vincent Black Lightning\", Thompson's bestloved postLinda song, presents the singer as a storyteller, entirely detached from his subject, where Linda and Sandy Denny always found a way into his narratives. And 1991's \"Read About Love\" is as vivacious and catchy as any other powerpop song of its era, but it's unbecomingly condescending to its narrator: \"When I touch you there it's supposed to feel nice/ That's what it said in Readers' Advice.\"The highlights of the final disc are excerpts from the live records Thompson's been cranking out through his own label since the mid90s and selling at concerts, especially a scintillating acoustic dash through the Who's \"A Legal Matter\" and a 12minute, soloheavy, roofblowingoff version of \"Hard On Me\". (The acolytes, of course, are always the ones who get access to the best stuff.) The set is the closest thing Thompson's got to the careerspanning greatesthits album he deserves but if you're not already part of his cult, it's more a moat than a drawbridge. "}