{"label":" Planet µ","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14145/homepage_large.20d28687.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Boxcutter","title":"Arecibo Message","text":" Boxcutter knows his shit. At least that's the impression he leaves listening to Arecibo Message: a man who's studied the past 20 years of electronic music with a historian's eye for exacting detail, if not exactly an innovator's need to prod unexpected pleasure centers. The rhythmic choices, springing from Boxcutter's previous work, make this music dubstep, at least nominally. But very little about the album otherwise points to any of the London basscentric subgenre's current stylsitic conceits, save perhaps a sonic palette that tends toward the days of repurposed Atari 2600 SFX set to a beat. Arecibo Message reflects a longer and stronger lineage, one that starts well before FWD>> opened its doors or South Londoners began siphoning the estrogen from twostep.And so for the most part we get a mash note, in the form of nonreferential homage, to the housebound geniuses who left their rainbowtinted fingerprints all over white label buyers' expectations in a postacid world. The boogie bline and retrobrittle handclaps on \"S p a c e b a s s\" are the breakdancefriendly roots of all those hiphop import fiends whose spastic enthusiasm for shuddering synthetic beats would have them dubbed \"I.D.M.\" a few years later. Likewise, \"Free House Acid\" is yet another attempt to make overlapping quasiacidic bleeps harmonize like dueling opera singers in a Chuck Jones cartoon. And for every fleet slice of dark, swinging neogarage (like \"Mya Rave v2\"), there's something like the title track, which splits the difference between the stifflimbed early days of Warp Records and the label's convoluted second wave, rigid LFO suddenly nipped and tucked a thousand times over into something closer to Autechre.Two things keep Boxcutter's latest from the tedium of unchecked nostalgia for sounds which never left us long enough to be missed. One, the garageish tempos mean all that acidic filigree never gets overbearing the way it can when combined with the \"look ma, no brakes\" programming that's the bane of Boxcutter's postdrill'n'bass peers. And two, he's wedded to neither the sound of 1989 or 1999; curveballs like the slanted J Dilla funk of \"A Cosmic Parent\" keep Arecibo Message from simply being a experiment in bleeding one rave era into another. Still, most of the album is throwback enough to be a pleasant oneoff, not so much a work of fevered straining at a genre's edges so much as a wellcrafted nod to the O.G.'s of Brit bleeping, made with grace and a smile. And if you've been lamenting a lack of hairy electrotinged riffage in your life, here's a quick reup. "}