{"label":" Fonal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14146/homepage_large.e2170d55.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Kiila","title":"Tuota Tuota","text":" There is no beginner's Fonal band: Every artist on the familial Finnish label wilds off in strange directions, eschewing almost all Western music norms and most others as well. But Kiila, one of the only Fonal bands who occasionally flirt with English (their debut album: Heartcore), might be close: Tuota Tuota, the band's third album, trades in lush, Northcountry arrangements and silvery group chants. You can probably still count the truly coherent pop moments on one hand, but the fact that you can count them at all places Tuota Tuota squarely on Fonal's skinny axis of accessibility.Faust have long been considered the most bucolic of the Krautrockers, famously recording their albums in an old schoolhouse; Kiila aim for that sprawl on Tuota Tuota (\"Well Well\"), the sixstrong troupe extending their many limbs over all manner of countryside tremble. Kiila unsurprisingly trade in European traditions, echoing the shapeshifting Incredible String Band, the elegant hum of John Martyn, or the accumulating stir of Peter Brötzmann and so many other free improv stalwarts. An intimidating list of influence, maybe, but Kiila rarely strain or stumble on Tuota Tuota. Opening hymn \"Viisi Hirvasta\" is as careful and reverent as anything the band has put to tape. Simple acoustic guitar lines mix with surface stirring until, three minutes later, a strident fiddle grabs the song by its collar, if only for a moment, and shakes some clarity out of it.That same fiddle announces the purposeful, rockland gait of \"Kevätlaulu\", which Kiila proceed to rollick through for three nofat minutes. This sort of betweentracks interplay benefits Tuota Tuota, whose seven tracks alternate between short and peppy and long and winding; it even spins like one of those old Faust albums. The affair is more strungtogether and traceable than 2004's Silmät Sulkaset, which saw Kiila falling more in line with Fonal's reputation for untenable forest children. The contrasts are heartfelt and charming, if occasionally jarring: Moments after \"Niin Kuin Puut\" delivers the album's most tender country paean, \"Kehotuslaulu\" proposes to build an entire song out of a fiddle breakdown. It is fun music in a decidedly unfun realm (Finnishlanguage experimental music), and even when Kiila return to softer compositions, Tuota Tuota retains an air of parlorroom conversation.The final six minutes devoted to \"Pöllötulkin Mietteet\", which charges downhill on strangely phasing funk guitars, wildman organ and ornery trumpeting provide a strange end to an album mostly intent on crafting homey, wooden revelries. But Kiila never ask you to gulp down their sprawl: the jamming is modest, the songcraft repeatable and molded. Tuota Tuota joyfully balances the band's experimental tendencies with tender, aged songcraft. Tuota Tuota is friendly skree for the intimidated. "}