{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14153/homepage_large.e8bf60b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Underwater Peoples Records Showcase","text":" To many music fans, pleasantness is low on the list of reasons to like or dislike a band or artist no match for originality or adventurousness. But even if \"nice sounds\" is something of a dirty phrase in the indie lexicon, there is, of course, a place for pleasant music when it's done right. Enter Underwater Peoples, a Washington, D.C.based boutique imprint that joins similarly minded labels Acephale (Memory Cassette, Air France) and Sincerely Yours (the Tough Alliance, um, Air France) plus marquee artists Fleet Foxes and Vampire Weekend by offering quality indie music that also happens to sound really good. Home to blogfriendly bands Real Estate and Ducktails, the label has seen an uptick in interest over the past few months for its development of a lofi, beachy aesthetic via the signing of a dozen or so groups scattered across the country all trafficking in and around this general style. This nicely varied and wellsequenced compilation originally offered as a free download through sites friendly with Underwater Peoples rounds up tracks by most of those artists for a collection that might as well be called Endless Summer.This is music that seems to have been developed specifically for flipflopped backyard barbecues, sunbaked roadtrips, and beachfront campfires (song titles \"Banana Jam Pt. 1\", \"Backyard\", and \"Beach Comber\" tell you as much right off the bat). Just take a look at that album cover the hazy, softfocus lighting, a rubber ducky, some guy straight relaxing in a suburban Playboystyle grotto. That dude is chilling. And that's kind of the point here: establishing a seasonal mood, a supine vibe that exists throughout the entire record. Perhaps more importantly, the compilation also helps to define Underwater Peoples' signature style, a sort of a crusty amalgam of the current strain of CSNYleaning underground Americana, classic midnineties guitar indie, and the more experimental tropical collagepop of Panda Bear and El Guincho, to a lesser degree.But even for the kindasorta adventurous moments here occasional bits of sampling and vocal looping, for instance the clear priorities are simplicity and tunefulness, and the best songs feature both in spades. Despite its cringeworthy title, Frat Dad's \"Brosef\" is accomplished indie rock that nicely balances the mournful longing of its groupsung chorus with filthier, ramshackle verses. Sexier and more rhythmic than just about anything that can be slapped with a \"whiteguy indie\" tag nowadays, Family Portrait's excellent \"Mega Secrets\" is even more successful, and it's got just enough of a scuzz coating to keep it from parting ways with the rest of the lofiish stuff around it. And New Jerseybased songwriter Liam the Younger provides further highlights with a pair of acoustic numbers that also represent the album's most outwardly folk moments. On \"Country Wide\", his quavering vocals emphasize a somberbuthopeful quality that gives the track emotional depth beyond its simple Appalachian strumming.The remainder of the Underwater Peoples compilation is divided between several subgenres that each fall somewhere under the larger umbrella of this brand of homespun summertime pop. Slower, dirgey instrumentals by Ducktails, more classically surfinspired Animal Collectiveleaning tunes from Pill Wonder, and Sad City's breezy patchwork pop all fare well here. (Almost surprisingly, for a group of mostly unknown artists on a label probably too small to distribute its own CDs, there are only a few songs here that don't fit or feel superfluous.) All of these tracks rely more on a vibe than heady creative concepts, but they nail that vibe. They're all unapologetically pleasant. And that might end up being the album's biggest selling point and its Achilles heel it won't expand your musical horizons and might not end up on your yearend list, but you'll listen to it a lot and enjoy it... a lot. And, hey, there's nothing wrong with that. "}