{"label":" Ecstatic Peace","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14147/homepage_large.b0d3df20.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Wand","title":"Hard Knox or, \"Are You Sure Hank Jr. Done It This Way?\"","text":" For the better part of this decade, James Jackson Toth recording alternately under his given name, as Wooden Wand, as WAND, and with the bands Wooden Wand & the Vanishing Voice, Wooden Wand & the Sky High Band, and, most recently, the Jescos has roosted among those cursed onetowatch lists. Back when freakfolk was everyone's new hairdo, Toth's meandering sprawls around slivers of songs seemed poised to take the kids who'd memorized Devendra Banhart's Oh Me, Oh My... higher. And of all those grizzled sorts, Toth stood among the most prolific, churning out tapes and CDRs and proper albums at a pace so feverish one simply assumed something special would come of it all.Toth got close, too (especially with the almostexcellent Buck Dharma) before crafting more straightforward, songoriented albums. He slowed his pace, concentrated, and emerged with the Sky High Band's Second Attention in 2006 and the Lee Ranaldoproduced James & the Quiet in 2007. While those records maintained traces of Toth's unhinged Americana, they resigned themselves to transmitting tunes and images directly. After a deal with Nonesuch Records fell through, Toth landed on quasimajor Rykodisc with a sterling supporting cast that included Wilco's Nels Cline and Vetiver's Andy Cabic. Finally, one assumed, Toth was poised to crack the casing that had long made him a secondclass songwriter.But that didn't happen: Despite its pristine guitar leads and a handful of stunning soul ballads (\"Look in on Me\", in particular), Waiting in Vain met largely lukewarm reviews and audiences still trying to decide if Toth was a freak, a folk, or neither. That's when a bad situation turned into a catastrophe. His band including longtime collaborator and wife, Jexie Lynn Toth, or Vanishing Voice quit during the middle of a multimonth tour. He persevered, losing his job back home and spending a night in jail. As he's done for most of his career, Toth wrote a lot, though, allegedly churning out 50 songs and submitting 12 of those demos to Rykodisc. Shortly thereafter, he says, he was dropped. No big label deal, no bright horizons: He was just another good songwriter who'd never made it to the big leagues.Those dozen hardluck demos comprise Born Bad, a limitededition vinyl release that's more memorable for its circumstances than its songs. Shifting between boozing outlaw country, hardlinining morose ballads, and selfdeprecating wry folk, Born Bad is mostly raw nerves and hurt feelings. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but from Hank Williams and Chris Bell to Elliott Smith and Will Johnson it's just been done better. On the title track, Toth borrows the skeleton of Swans' \"Failure\" and tosses in lifted Dylan nothings \"I was dialing in a feral mind transferal salt lick steweyed suicide\" for unequivocal sadbastard measure. He cries when he reads the paper, curses journalists questioning him, cuts himself compulsivel, does cocaine on babychanging tables, and generally moans about his crimes against himself and the world. \"I don't believe it'd bother me to die,\" he offers somewhat cheerfully above a Tennessee Two trot on opener \"Agent of Destruction\". Beneath it all, though, Toth keeps a hint of humor (\"The Forgiveness Factory) and more importantly admits that the root of his problems is himself, not the world around him. \"I'm selfish and I'm stubborn but I deal with this every day,\" he sings at one point. He's likely not seeking forgiveness for Born Bad's overwrought emotional folly, but he mostly gains it at least from me.On Born Bad's \"Creature of Habit\", Toth moans, \"Sometimes you just need to hear the music from the other side of the room/ Sometimes you just need perspective and a different point of view.\" That helps explain why Hard Knox, a collection of 14 tunes recorded by Toth at home in Knoxville between 2002 and 2007, works so well: Freed from the transient aesthetic or emotional whims that ruin Born Bad, Hard Knox simply offers the best of what Toth vows is a sizable archive. All told, it's one of his finest moments to date. Sure, like Toth's career, it's an uneven collection, but with its shifting moods and modes of productions it keeps the listener close. \"The Drag Pit' is a silly waltz of poignant parables and scenes, while \"Trails\" documents the hardships of the romantic vagrant. Opener \"Arriving\" is stoic and chilling, rife with images of disaffection and crippled despair. Both on \"Lady of Situations\" and \"Saturday Delivery\", he sings softly with Jexie (they're back together, by the way) with wonderful intimacy and quiet, as if the two sat naked in their bedroom, huddled around a microphone as the sun rose. \"Lady of Situations\" is about dying, and \"Saturday Delivery\" is about cheating, but there's an unflagging sweetness behind these closed doors. We're simply lucky enough to have been invited.Earlier this year, Toth signed to Young God Records, the label run by Swans/Angels of Light founder Michael Gira. Young God accidentally served as a crucial foundation for the freakfolk movement by releasing the early and still most essential records of Devendra Banhart and Akron/Family. Gira, by all accounts an iron will with a wide imagination, was an essential influence on those records and in helping both bands find bigger ears. The best moments of Toth's 13year career scattered in general and absent from Born Bad as they may be suggest Gira's again found a strong talent who needs the right sort of guidance to make, at last, some great statement. Let's hope this suggestion doesn't damn him: James Jackson Toth remains one to watch. "}