{"label":" Mexican Summer","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14151/homepage_large.33801d13.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Valet","title":"False Face Society","text":" Valet is the musicmaking moniker of Portland's queen of indie multitasking, Honey Owens proprietor of a vintage clothing shop, part owner of a record label, cofounder of a rock venue, and longtime band hopper who's jammed with the likes of Jackie O Motherfucker and Atlas Sound. She's very busy, to say the least. Owens is signed to the venerable leftfield/experimental label Kranky for her long players, but for False Face Society, a more offthecuff and improvisational piece than her past two solo projects, she's hanging with vinyl and digitalonly boutique imprint Mexican Summer.Since False Face Society's release is limited to just 500 physical units, only diehard fans will score a copy on wax, but of course, the internet will find the record a wider audience than that. For those who discovered Valet through her druggedout 2008 drone exploration, Naked Acid a highly accomplished, underrated album this threesong suite might be harder to swallow. While far from a pop record, Naked Acid found Valet increasingly comfortable with structure; she was more willing to ground her ambientandnoise journeys within the confines of quoteunquote songs, and in that sense it felt like a step forward. For this EP, though, Valet returns to the sparser candlelit psych hymns of her first fulllength, Blood Is Clean.To some, it will feel like backpedaling, but I would caution against reading too much into a release like this. Less an investigation into new territory, False Face Society seems more like a brief pit stop, a temporary release valve for a busy creative mind. Still, the three songs included here aren't Valet's finest work to date. The first of two original pieces is \"Angels Can't Stop\", a mostly instrumental slow builder with a composedonthefly quality about it. Slowedheartbeat pulses and distant wooden percussion play next to Owens' faroff vocals, which are purposefully indecipherable here. Moving in a few distinct phases, the track's several moods bleed into one another gracefully, but at 15plus minutes it meanders more than necessary. And with its treated vocals and guttural synths, the droney \"Dealer vs. Ocean\" is colder and more mechanical than we're used to from Owens; it doesn't quite reach the trippy transcendence of her previous work.But even if the record's first two cuts seem sort of halfformed, fans will no doubt be excited for its final number, a dazzling impressionistic cover of Boris and Michiho Kurihara's \"Rainbow\" from 2006. This is, of course, the sort of crosscontinental musical pollination between esteemed artists that us geeks go apeshit over, and luckily the song delivers. Riding the same elliptical guitar pattern as the original, \"Rainbow\" starts and ends with a whisper, but lets its drum circle pitterpatter and echoed harmonies find a dreamy equilibrium in the center. Even if \"Rainbow\" is worth the price of admission alone, False Face Society is certainly missing some of the components that made Naked Acid and Blood Is Clean, to a slightly lesser degree, great. (A focus on Owens' ethereal singing, the sort of Black Diceesque atonal adventurousness of tracks such as \"Fire\", to name a few.) But, again, we're talking about just three tracks (not enough to really guess at Valet's trajectory from here), so there's little reason to doubt that she has more great music in her. "}