{"label":" Kimchee","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1303/homepage_large.af44a6f9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Seana Carmody","title":"Struts & Shocks","text":" Holy flashbacks, website readers! Seana Carmody is trying to erase your memory of the last ten years, and only you can stop her! Get out your secret decoder rings to find out how, and remember, all the information you're about to receive is top secret, for your eyes only, not to be shared with anyone not even your Mom and Dad. The first letter is...wait! What's that sound? That beguiling sound...so clear, so...French, in a Bostonian kind of way. That voice, it's calling me back to 1992, back to the days when indie rock was supposed to take over the world and save us all from prepackaged blandness. And that music, it's so hazy, so...swirly. \"Rocket Out of Time\" pretty much says it all, in title and execution. Seana Carmody's voice tumbles out of the speakers, dripping in ambience cooked up in some halfremembered stereolab. I'm not sure if she departed from the Swirlies ten years ago or yesterday: Her henchmen Orrin Anderson on drums and keys, and Adam Brilla on bass and \"space guitar\" put you in double headlocks of strutting rhythm and shocking fuzz, driving home the autovehicular double entendre of the album's title.Struts & Shocks is like the core of the Swirlies, with the apple eaten mostly off; it's still pretty sweet, but the seeds are mildly poisonous. The songs that drove that first band's noise and experimental edge are largely swept aside, in favor of a cozier bedroom ambience. There's still some racket to get the neighbors pounding on the ceiling, but it's mostly disarmingly underplayed. It's concise, too, plowing through ten songs in 33 minutes, eight of which are devoted to the dusty shoegazer miniepic \"Stay Awake\", which closes the record in blissfully spaced out fashion. Other highlights include the gorgeously lopsided groove of \"Deirdre\", topped by a tripletracked layer of Carmody sauce, and guitars operating at orbital zenith. The heavenly swirl of \"Tornadoes\" kicks up a cloud of distortion and percussive fence posts that belies the calm of Carmody's delivery. And that's part of what makes Struts & Shocks so great: Carmody certainly recalls her glory days in the Swirlies, but she's the only one in the driver's seat, and brings a new focus to her work as a result. All told, her plot to rob us of the last decade seems to be coming to fruition. Save your old records, kids, they're the only decoder you've got. "}