{"label":" Kompakt / Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14148/homepage_large.3b3468d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"The Field","title":"Yesterday & Today","text":" As with any artist whose singular sound wins an admirable crosssection of hearts especially in a time when fewer niche artists are rewarded with attention from outside their scene it's hard to envy Axel Willner as he follows his debut, the 2007 breakout From Here We Go Sublime. Offer a complete revamp of his paradoxically mistlightbutbrickdense mix of ambient and trance? He'd be accused of selling out his smitten fanbase. Pack Yesterday and Today with six slabs of selfparodic moreofthesame? He could await the entitled mewling about wheelspinning and diminishing returns.So it's unsurprising that Willner's taken the easiest route. Yesterday and Today calculatingly comprises three songs that extend the known rush of Sublime the barely there hissing drums; the short, soft vocal samples swept into grandly corny pastel clouds; the poignant youcallthosemelodies? abstracted from the emotionallymanipulative fakebook of postrave cheese and three very different potential future directions for the Field discography. It sounds like a hesitant record, made by a man stuck between the rock of new nonDJ expectations and the hard place of an artist's desire to grow without being compromised by an audience whose needs he can only guess at. It's also quite good, despite the possible failure of nerve on its creator's part.Good or no, though, it's doubtful the newold stuff will convince those unseduced by Sublime. Willner's tracks are so formally simple that's it not necessarily wrong to claim that if you've heard one then you better dig a lot of edgeofperception variations in woosh and chug to get through a whole record. But then the rickety claim that \"there may not seem to be much going on but...\" has tripped up decades' worth of critics trying to sell verseandchorus kids on bleeps and loops. Let's say this to the suspicious: If the soundquasound of a Field track's first minute doesn't trigger nearsynaesthetic glee, it's guff to promise any mindrearranging revelations five minutes later, or even many of traditional minimalism's \"holy shit!\" moments.The length of Willner's tracks, their didheordidn'the? shifts in mood, and their easy to miss addition/subtraction of instrumentation via the volume knob suggest background music, and maybe that's the best \"in\" to the Field's world. You can certainly let the a tranceish synth swoosh and nearinaudible plinky piano of opener \"I Have the Moon, You Have the Internet\" (a subtle advance rebuke to peanutgallery griping?) wash over you and be satisfied. Of course that might mean you'll miss Willner's genius deployment of a single rising chord in the final minutes. And if you've been gripped by \"I Have The Moon\" for its duration? Well, there's your napetingling bonus.It's also not clear that the aesthetic curve balls will please Sublime partisans. Korgis cover \"Everybody's Got to Learn Sometime\" is more or less a snooze, a looped line of (gasp!) full vocal over a dapple of staticridden softpop and swelling stringsandcymbals, a pleasant diversion as the Bside remix to an indie rock single, but filler here. Better is \"Yesterday and Today\", truly tweaking Willner's trademark and suggesting the fruits of the Field's crossgenre jaunt across America, rubbing shoulders with fourman bands in our finer rockcentric ratholes. The chunky, lengthy bassanddrums outro thankfully sounds less like punkfunk and more like a tribal DJ tool from a Masters at Work set, albeit replacing MAW's gussiedtohell layers of horns and chants with a nostrildilating blast of pinescented Kompakt ambiance.But then there's the appropriately named, implacable, acidtinged \"Sequenced\", a nostalgic cruise straight into the murky neighborhood of 1970s/80s Europe's halfremembered pioneers of O.C.D. keyboardplay as an end in itself. Despite the late introduction of a (there's sadly no other adjective) spangly melody, it's by far the darkest thing Willner's ever waxed. And though it features the album's most insistent rhythm, it's too slow for dancing, more like what a postJDF producer would play during a casting call for his kitsch discosploitation movie. It's also the key to understanding why those who kvetch about the Field failing as \"dance music\" are missing the point. Like those repetitionhappy German/French/Italian pioneers, the Field's making music more suited for passivelyreceived images than actively moving bodies.It's impossible to tell where Willner will go from Yesterday and Today. One might hope he continues on from the title track, adding weightier rhythms and making a few nobullshit dancefloor singles. Or you can imagine a doubledisc of deeplistening midtempo headnodders taking \"Sequenced\" to prog/concept extremes. Whatever the evolutionary nextstep, the hope is that Wilner can keep the feel of the Sublimeish half of Yesterday and Today without stooping to thirdtime'skilledthecharm recycling or willfully denying the pleasures he can provide so easily. That's the kind of tall order that's felled artists more timetested than the relatively young Willner, and so for now I'll just wish him luck while very much enjoying the rich mix of retreads and possibilities we've got. "}