{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14155/homepage_large.fabcf816.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Themselves","title":"theFREEhoudini","text":" When the hiphop collective Anticon first came on the scene with 1999's Music for the Advancement of Hip Hop, they presented an illusion of a united front, a group sharing an aesthetic and plans for domination. But this sense disappeared almost immediately as the core artists Sole, Alias, Doseone, Jel, and Pedestrian broke away into so many side collaborations that Anticon started to resemble a virus more than a movement. Over the years, they haven't so much expanded as metastasized, finding new converts (Sage Francis, Odd Nosdam, Dosh) as they splinter into smaller and smaller pieces and pursue their aggressively wayward interests. There are many possible explanations for this sort of artistic behavior (creative restlessness, for example), but it also represents a survival strategy. As Method Man once rhymed: \"Had to kill a schizophrenic nigga twice.\"It's a little surprising, then, to find the Anticon crew back together on their new mixtape, theFREEHoudini, especially considering it's being billed as a new release by Themselves, a name that Doseone and Jel often record under together. theFREEHoudini is many things, but it is not a Themselves album. Instead, it's a gathering of nearly all the forces Anticon have assembled over the past decade in one place. Slug, Sole, Alias, Busdriver, Yoni Wolf of Why?, Buck 65 the gang is all here, and, as you might expect, the room gets a little crowded. For the Anticon faithful, the class reunion of the theFREEHoudini is a cause for celebration, but for everyone else, it makes for a jumbled and unfocused listening experience.Sonically, there is nothing here to surprise you if you've paid attention to Anticon's last five or six years of releases. If there's a ferret hole of a subgenre to burrow into, they've found it by now, and their endlessly churning collage of ambient, minimal techno, IDM, and industrial has evolved to the point where the initiated can anticipate each hard left before it happens. It's still a place gloriously friendly to a comfy pair of headphones, full of babbling voices buried in the mix and drum hits so tactile they seem to stick to and then peel off your ears. The drum break for \"The Mark\" is swarmed by little insect clouds of electronics and a sandstorm of found sound, whereas \"Free&Void\" seems to build its beat from the buzzing of a flickering fluorescent lamp. Whether slow or fast, the tracks emerge from a haze of analog tape hiss that suggests lateevening summer light.The rapping, as is increasingly the case with Anticon, is just another rhythmic element in tracks striving to recreate how it might feel to do a lot of bad coke in a steel foundry. Doseone, who in a past life was a pretty straightforward multisyllable spitter (see 1998's Hemispheres for evidence), delivers his lines here in a demented cackle that can barely be heard beneath the metalonmetal cacophony of the production. On \"Kick the Ball\", Buck 65 staggers all over the beat with goofy non sequiturs like \"got a job at a church, and I rocked them bells.\" On \"Back2Burn\", Pedestrian's verse bears no relation, rhythmic or otherwise, to the clomping music in the foreground.The vets come off best. Over the loping backbeat of \"1 For No Money\", Sole packs his crowded stanzas with his usual poisontipped misanthropy: \"This ain't a mixtape, it's an Idon'tgiveafuck tape/ It's highschool revenge in a briefcase, who brought the duct tape?\" Def Jux guest Aesop Rock, on \"Know That to Know This\", spits something that feels shockingly close to a straightup doubletime rap over abstracted smears of guitar (granted, his punchlines still consist of things like \"Literally calling all heartworms back to the can from whence they came, jittery and drunk.\") Frenetic, mercurial, and of wildly variable listenability, theFREEHoudini feels like a retrospective and a retrenchment of forces, but it also serves as yet another step in Anticon's breathless, neverending push forward. "}