{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14149/homepage_large.9619af41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Ada","title":"Adaptations #1 Mixtape","text":" The dancealbumassingleartistmix is such a good idea, addressing so many of the attentionstraining problems that plague dance music fulllengths, that you have to wonder why more producers don't make use of it. Several of the best dance music \"albums\" of the past few years like the Ricardo Villalobos and Omar S Fabric mixes, to name just two have managed to offer an hourplus of (moreorless) new music while also offering motion, an emotional/musical arc that justifies their running time. Especially with your more (there's no other word, sorry) minimal dance acts, the singleartist mix ideally prevents you from ever thinking, \"Have I just been listening to someone fiddle with their trackpad for the past five minutes?\" Or, \"Does this make me happy, or would I maybe be better off playing a Loverboy song?\"Ada's Adaptations collects 12 of the German producer's original tracks and remixes by and for other artists, strung into a mix that's neither as virtuosically deranged as Villalobos' or as functionally banging as Omar S'. Instead, it's one of the most inviting techno mixes/albums you'll hear this year, damn near cuddly. Don't mistake it for a pop record, though, or any sort of crossover stab, despite the preponderance of vocals and two indiefriendly covers. (Well, her remix of Brant's \"Last Night I Dreamt That Somebody Loved Me\" comes off more of a titular nod in the direction of certain Mancunians, its melody drooping electro melancholia, rather than the sprightly Johnny Marr version of same.) But a mix/album that opens with the warmblanketonacoldday purr of Everything But the Girl's Tracey Thorn, and includes a twinkly Michael Mayer/Tobias Thomas take on the looped longing Ada sieved from the Yeah Yeah Yeahs' \"Maps\"? That's pretty far from the forbidding cliché of the allbeatsandnothingbut techno mix.And when she goes purely (or almost) instrumental, Ada's taste still veers towards the laconic, blissful, and immediately appealing. The DJ Koze remix of \"Eve\", perhaps the one true 21stcentury classic on the mix, may open with a scratchedin flurry of hiphop and feature a repeating vocal sample that's a chipmunksqueaky nod to oldschool rave. But its twanging bassline and Jonzun Crew synthchirrups are buffeted by billowing keyboards you'd mistake for shoegaze glaze if they were played by guitars in a more rockcentric context. Robin Guthrie would nod with grandfatherly approval at the fluffy, reverbdrenched sound of much of Adaptations, its pleasantly floaty and froufrou vibe. Even Ada's nods to trad dance sounds, like the quasiSpanish \"guitar\" that lazily twangs through her remix of Andi Teichmann's \"Tape\", are hazy in a manner more transmissionfromspace than crisp, neoBalearic banger.It's maybe just a tad funny that, as a mix, Adaptations is just okay. On the evidence, Ada belongs to the longslowfade school of transitions, which suits her fuzzy sonics well enough. It just doesn't provide many jolts or surprises, easing you from track to track with a chain of bleeps or two overlapping melody lines. (On the other hand, turntablist trickery would just sound awkward applied to tracks that unfurl rather than bend or twist.) Still, though the oomph gently leaks out over the final quarter, there's enough bounce in her beats and blines to keep the record from evaporating into indistinct ambiance. Adaptations glides quite gracefully between floorfiller and reclinerfriendly. "}