{"label":" Original Signal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14161/homepage_large.e493c773.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"The Sounds","title":"Crossing the Rubicon","text":" The phrase \"crossing the Rubicon\" is, after all, a cliché, and I wish I didn't feel so compelled to point that out right off. I mean, we're talking about a band called the Sounds, so I reckon that sort of thing is, uh, par for the course. But this is the band's third pass at a longplayer, and I can't help but bemoan the lack of topdown inventiveness that stares back before you even get a fingernail into the shrinkwrap. It's hard to tell what exactly the Sounds mean by suggesting their new record is some kind of can'tlookback moment, since looking back is precisely what they do, and have been doing their entire career: mining glitzy 1980s powerpop for effortless (and often sorta brainless) hooks. I'd say the point of no return for the Sounds was whatever band meeting found them settling on their moniker. Clearly, overintellectualizing matters isn't really what they set out to accomplish. But if they're putting out this rivercrossing business, I've little choice but to offer up a cliché of my own: here, they're treading water.Crossing the Rubicon is a much better album if you don't think much about it; no easy task for a reviewer charged with poring over the finer points, I'll admit, but in the earbud era, not so tough for the casual listener. The Sounds of Crossing the Rubicon are certainly an appealing band on sonics alone, as they have been all along: Synth flourishes and chugging guitars underpin the powerful pipes of Maja Ivarsson at nearly every turn, and while it's short on subtlety, it gets by on pluck. This is shutupanddance music, and that's just about all it ever intended to be. But Rubicon offers the occasional (if frustratingly infrequent) peek behind the curtain, periodic whiffs of more ambition than their pleasureoverload tunes usually suggest, and they're fascinating and frustrating by turns.Fascinating, as this is clearly a formula that needs messing with. Crossing the Rubicon presents 50 minutes of thickasabrick glosspop, all peaks and no valleys, nearly every song largely indistinguishable in melody and meter from the one that came before. And frustrating, because when they do make the occasional attempt to stretch out, they don't go far enough for you to notice unless you were paying close attention. The effort's appreciated, but the moments on Crossing the Rubicon that go for something less sprightly like the brief title track, which throws a bit more rumble behind their usual fare in a stab at \"epic,\" or the mercifully moodbreaking ballad \"The Only Ones\" are far from surefooted, whereas the big pop moments kick just like they always have. It's no wonder they keep doing what they do; it works okay, and for a band who still call themselves the Sounds after 10 years and three LPs, it seems okay is what we can expect.Which is not to say Crossing the Rubicon doesn't hold a few highlights, however relative. The \"Rapture\"echoing \"Beatbox\" won't help quell the Blondie comparisons that've followed this lot around since the start (which, usually, have been far too kind), but Ivarsson not a strong lyricist by any stretch avoids any careating chatter, and the song breezes by amicably enough on the strength of its bounce. \"Midnight Sun\" could be a pretty goodsized single, actually, and offers up a fitting mission statement for the band in its first verse: \"Embrace the land where the ocean meets the sand, and emotion fades away.\" This is the synthpop equivalent of Ibiza getaway music: spirited but oddly dispassionate background noise, utility and order über alles. That in mind, I can see myself enjoying it a great deal more were I not thinking about it, writing about it, picking it apart. But that doesn't excuse that this is their third album in this vein; we only needed this one the once.Listening to Crossing the Rubicon, I'm reminded of my longago defense of the Killers' Hot Fuss: put it on in a dark room stuffed with people and tell me how much that \"I'm not a solider\" line bothers you. Of course, there's nothing on here quite so enduring as Mr. Flowers and company's early seedlings, but the comparison's apt nonetheless. This is a decently crafted, moderately hooky, fairly vacuous powerpop album, and under the right light, you could do a whole lot worse. But I also can't help but think of their fellow Scandipoppers Love Is All, who've made a pair of awfully similar, totally great party records of their own lately at a similar pace, infused with humor and pathos and Josephine Olausson's wooly howl. Both albums don't sound too bad in the dark, but I'll tell you which one I'll reach for in the daytime. "}