{"label":" City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14163/homepage_large.c7100d07.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Cortney Tidwell","title":"Boys","text":" Considering we're roughly 15 years removed from the commercial and critical peaks of Björk, Tori Amos, and PJ Harvey, it shouldn't be a surprise that a spate of female artists who evoke those icons has cropped up on the indierock radar recently. Not only were the formative years of St. Vincent, Bat for Lashes, and Lavender Diamond spent in a milieu in which such bracing women were topping critic's polls and storming Billboard charts, that same climate also nurtured so many thousands of fans who now make up a sizable chunk of indie's customer base. So it makes sense that so many listeners would be eager to herald upandcoming young women who remind them of their middleschool heroines.Cortney Tidwell definitely belongs on this list of recent female insurgents. Though her background sets her apart from the bigger names from the earlier era, Tidwell draws from them to an even greater degree than her contemporaries do, in addition to incorporating femmeheavy triphop, dreampop, and shoegaze sources. Tidwell's family actually has deep roots in country music, her mother and grandfather having performed on the Grand Ole Opry, while her father continues to thrive as a recording engineer in Nashville. When you throw in the biographical tidbit that she was a Joy Division acolyte as a youth, I guess it's not difficult to surmise how the \"country goth\" tag got slapped on Tidwell's music at the outset of her career.But despite a very occasional tendency to let her voice loom large and haunting like a spectral Patsy Cline, Tidwell's M.O. is miles removed from Music Row. She'd much rather adopt a girlish tone when singing, and dress up her compositions with dreamy keyboards, arty atmospherics, and occasional noise touches. At this point, after Ewan Pearson's terrific 2007 reworking of her \"Don't Let the Stars Keep Us Tangled Up\", Tidwell's biggest worry should be making sure she doesn't end up stuck in the Goldfrapp/Sia Furler career trap of being primarily reckoned as remix fodder.Her sophomore effort, Boys, begins with a consummate red herring in the form of \"Solid State\", a smoky, noirish tease that perfectly fulfills the parameters of \"country goth,\" and which Tidwell of course spends the remainder of the album distancing herself from as much as possible (only \"Being Crosby\", a lovely duet with Jim James full of gently tugging acoustic guitars and faraway banjo, signifies \"country\" much at all). Tidwell gives immediate notice that she won't be catering to the Paste set anytime soon with the album's second track, \"Watusii\", a clanging, dissonant artpop banger that offers Boys' first proof of significant Björkish predilections. \"Son & Moon\" is this album's blatant Vespertine bite (joining \"I Do Not Notice\" from her debut), while \"Oslo\" reveals Tidwell learned a thing or two from Radiohead as well (namely, from OK Computer‘s guitars and In Rainbows' bass).The charging \"So We Sing\" is refreshingly inyourface and offers one of the album's most immediate refrains, but it gives way to a back half that starts bleeding into one slow, prettily atmospheric wash. It's a dreamy, wallpaperish rut that \"Palace\" and \"Oh, Suicide\" can't rise above, though \"Oh, China\" and \"17 Horses\" do distinguish themselves modestly thanks to the former's titleevoking rhythmic patterns and the latter's slightly pacechanging approximation of PJ Harvey.I can understand Tidwell not achieving Bat For Lasheslike levels of success and acclaim, considering Natasha Khan's work is far more emotionally dynamic and immediately pleasurable. However, Tidwell does at least deserve to be reckoned as St. Vincent's peer her music may not be as brightly likable as Annie Clark's, but Tidwell is a more compelling vocalist and more stylistically omnivorous to boot. She may occasionally allow artiness to get in the way of enjoyableness on Boys, but Tidwell otherwise proves herself a worthy inheritor to the altrock personality queens of the 1990s. "}