{"label":" Kora","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14172/homepage_large.113b5fbd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Gregor Samsa","title":"Over Air","text":" Music is a wave. Radio is a wave. Radio playing music is a wave carrying another wave to your receiver. You have to love physics for exposing us to things like this that we can't see. Knowing what a sound wave and a radio wave are makes it all the more amazing how significant the emotional effects of properly organized sound waves can be. Light waves are completely different, but they combine quite nicely with sound waves at a live show to give a band an idea of how its audience is responding and an audience something to respond to. So the radio session is a bit of an oddity among live recordings, because it almost always removes light from the equation there's an audience out there, but how big is it? Who is in it? What are they thinking?Because of this, bands are essentially free to indulge themselves, which is one of the reasons radio sessions have proven such a great source of bootlegs over the years (good sound quality is another). On Over Air, Gregor Samsa have saved bootleggers the trouble by presenting a studio performance for Dutch radio station VPRO. The band's hushed, glacial sound is the kind of thing that works best when all else is quiet, so this is probably the most sensible way for them to get a live record out there. There's precious little to hold onto in this music Champ Bennett's slowmoving songs coalesce from the most minimal of elements, like water droplets forming from mist on a windshield. It certainly offers little of the existential terror implied by their Kafkareferencing name.Even after listening to this album 13 times, I can hardly remember any of it and I knew most of these songs beforehand! but I don't think that's really the point anyway. This is music of the moment, meant for you to live inside of while it's there and evaporate. Little bits like the \"seems the devil's got a grip on me\" chorus from \"Jeroen Van Aken\" offer melody to hook you a bit, but even that is delivered in such a quiet, retiring way by the shy boygirl harmonies of Champ and Nikki Bennett (who used to be Nikki King) that it's as if they're afraid to impose the song on you. It is exceedingly pretty though, as is pretty much the entire disc. The keyboard washes, sprinkling of piano, smeared clarinet and violin, and guitars that don't sound like guitars all add up to a very pleasant listening experience. The one moment of truly momentous drama comes on \"Young And Old\", originally from their 55:12 album, when the track explodes for a few moments into a fountain of overdriven guitar.Most of the other songs are drawn from 2008's Rest LP, including \"Abutting, Dismantling\", with its shifting texture and gradual build to a steady, pounding midsection. There are a few nonVPRO tracks as well: an alternate mix of \"Du Meine Leise\" and a couple of very sleepy ambient instrumentals that don't diminish from the package but also add little. If you'd like to see the band doing its thing, the disc also includes a generous 30minute video of them performing in Paris that actually finds them a bit more lively than the VPRO performance \"Rock Song\" is particularly inspired. Maybe there's something to those light waves after all. This bit of added value makes this a very worthy addition to a Gregor Samsa fan's collection, but it's likely that if you weren't already interested, this won't change your mind. "}