{"label":" Reprise","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14170/homepage_large.bf630955.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Neil Young","title":"The Archives Vol. 1: 1963-1972","text":" In the wake of Bob Dylan's successful 1985 expanded anthology Biograph, it seemed like every rock artist of note was lining up for CD boxset canonization. And true to his reputation as a futurist, David Bowie tried to outdo them all with 1989's Sound + Vision, which supplemented the usual greatesthitsplusrarities format with a bonus disc of visual content that would showcase the glorious new CDVideo format. There was only one problem with his attempt to revolutionize the box set: no one knew what the hell a CDVideo disc was, let alone owned any kind of device that would allow one to view it.It was around this same time that Neil Young started talking up an ambitious careerretrospective project called Archives, and given the amount of unreleased songs Young routinely dusted off in his concerts, fans had come to expect nothing less than a paralleluniverse repertoire every bit as rich and deep as his official one a Decade to last for decades. But as gleaned by anyone who's gone to a Neil Young show expecting to hear the hits but treated to an hour of Greendale instead, being a Neil fan requires a certain amount of patience. Twenty years since its first public mention, Archives has gone on to usurp even Chinese Democracy as the ultimate lostalbum punchline. But the longdelayed arrival of this first volume seems less a matter of archeology as technology. And like the Bowie box, there's some confusion about how exactly you're supposed to use the thing.Neil Young is an odd sort of perfectionist, favoring a raw immediacy in his recordings that often means leaving the mistakes in for purity's sake, but he's obsessed with making sure those mistakes are mixed and mastered to sometimes unattainable standards of fidelity. (He refused to release arguably his finest album, 1974's On the Beach, on CD until 2003 for this reason.) So it appears that the advent of Bluray HD audio technology was the missing piece that has allowed Neil to realize his multimedia masterplan for Archives. What little public comment he's made about Archives' release has taken the form of evangelical praise for the medium, urging fans to adopt the new technology like a Best Buy salesman working on commission.The first volume of Archives arrives as a 10disc set, spanning the first 10 years of Young's career and, somewhat confusingly, three different formats. For the most ardent audiophiles, there's the $300 multimediaenhanced Bluray edition that includes six compilation discs; the previously released Live at the Fillmore East and Live at Massey Hall; an additional solo concert recorded in 1969 at the Riverboat coffeehouse in Toronto (though it boasts a tracklist similar to last year's Live at Canterbury House set, also included here as an unlisted bonus throwin); the first DVD release of Young's infamous tourdocumentarycumexistentialroadflick, Journey Through the Past; plus onlineupdate capabilities through which users will have access to more material.For equally fervent fans (and Pitchfork reviewers) with inferior homeentertainment setups, there's a $200 version boasting all of the above musical and multimedia content in a DVD format. And for those who just want some Neil onhand in the car to soundtrack future road trips forevermore, there's a basic eightdisc $100 CD box with all the tunes but none of the extras. (All versions come with mp3 download codes, though we all know how Neil feels about iPods.)Regardless of the format, each version of Archives makes the same convincing case: For Neil Young, the years of 1963 to 1972 were marked by a rapid maturation and a series of successful stylistic reinventions that rivaled the Beatles. Starting out as the surfrockin' frontman for Winnipeg garage combo the Squires, he quickly transitioned into the folkie busker cutting early demos of \"Sugar Mountain\" for Elektra Records in 1965; the widescreened psychedelic visionary in Buffalo Springfield; the savage electric warrior of 1969's Crazy Horse debut, Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere; the heroic hippie wingman for Crosby, Stills and Nash; and then the countryrock traditionalist of 1970's After the Gold Rush and 1972's Harvest. On top of summarizing a tidy 10year span, Archives Vol. 1 ends symbolically with Neil at his commercial peak, before a growing disillusionment with rock stardom and the death of close friends would usher in a more darkly compelling phase of his career.But while they're paying the least amount of money, the CDbox purchasers may feel the most shortchanged, as Archives is not quite the vaultclearing revelation that fans may have been hoping for. Of the advertised 43 unreleased tracks, most take the form of alternate mixes or live versions of familiar material, ranging from the subtle (a cavernous mix of \"Helpless\" that enhances the song's hymnal qualities) to the substantial (early strippeddown versions of \"Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere\" and future On the Beach track \"See the Sky About to Rain\"). But as Archives attests, the lack of true, unheard rarities can be explained by the fact that Neil's been pulling from his mythical stash of lost songs since the mid60s, padding his 70s and 80s releases with songs (\"Winterlong\", \"Come on Baby Let's Go Downtown\", \"Wonderin'\") written during this early era.So in a purely musical sense, Archives' real selling point isn't so much the tracklist as the remastering. And make no doubt about it: Next to the budgetline CD issues that Reprise rushed to the market in the late 80s, the new versions sound spectacular, breathing new life into these old warhorses. (The swirling symphonics of Harvest's \"A Man Needs a Maid\", in particular, beg for a big pair of headphones and an easy chair.) However, one can't help but question why these remasters can only be accessed via an expensive box set rather than through individual album reissues. With so many songs here already familiar to even the most casual classicrock radio listener, the most illuminating moments on Archives come from the less celebrated tracts of his career. For one, the Squires tracks provide not just a timecapsule snapshot of Neil's first recording forays; rather, songs like the wonderful \"I'll Love You Forever\" provide glimpses of an unrealized future as a Beatlesque balladeer. (Alternately, the twangy instrumental \"Mustangs\" could pass for vintage Meat Puppets.) And if the turnofthe70s triumvirate of Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere, After the Gold Rush, and Harvest became the goto soundtracks for America's posthippie hangover, Neil's comparatively overlooked 1969 selftitled debut feels all the more contemporary for being excluded from that classicrock holy trinity, boasting a softrock lushness that in light of psychedelic successors like the Flaming Lips, Mercury Rev, and Sparklehorse has proven as influential as any album in his canon.But as Archives' multitude of newspaper clippings and radio interview excerpts explain, it was Neil's dissatisfaction with that first album's textured production and mastering that made him go folk/rock (not to be confused with folkrock), and though they're already been released, the Massey Hall and Fillmore sets still represent this era's purest manifestations of those acoustic/electric extremes. The 1969 Riverboat disc, however, is less about what Neil does during the songs (acoustic readings of his firstalbum and Springfield catalogues) as between them: he talks. A lot. So much so that the these betweensong \"raps\" constitute their own bonus feature on the Riverboat disc perhaps inspired by onetime tourmate Thurston Moore's similar verbal deconstruction of a Venom live album with a stream of amusing anecdotes about groupies, drugs and the Guess Who. In the same sense, Archives is ultimately less interesting when seen as a compilation of music than as a digital storehouse of a man's complete life and work.Taken individually, the reams of extras that accompany every track on the DVD/Bluray editions candid photos, original handwritten lyric sheets, radiopromo spots, newspaper clippings, tapebox doodles, and so on may not seem like a compelling reason to pony up for Archives' enhanced options. But cumulatively, they chart an evolution as intriguing as that heard in the songs. Given that Neil's become rather mediashy in his old age, Archives provides an opportunity to track his transformation as a public figure through the many newspaper articles and radiointerview clips gathered here, from the wideeyed teenager promoting his club night in the Winnipeg daily to the disgruntled Buffalo Springfield exile trashing Jimmy Messina's mixing job on that band's last record (early evidence of Neil's notorious audiophilia) to the selfdescribed \"rich hippie\" contemplating the peculiarities of fame just as Harvest is about to make him a superstar.And the (mostly hidden) video teases sprinkled throughout the set like CSNY performing \"Down By the River\" on a David Steinberghosted teen dance show, or rare glimpses of the longgone Riverboat culminate with a treasure trove of footage on Archives' final disc. Here we get a series of intimate interviews conducted during Harvest's farmhouse recording sessions, as well as Archives' most amusing easter egg find: a 15minute sequence where Neil discovers CSNY bootlegs during a recordshopping trip circa 1971, sparking a heated argument with the store employee that culminates in Neil walking out of the shop, bootlegs in hand, without paying for them. (The sequence is especially resonant in light of Neil's recent endorsement of Warner Music Group pulling all their artists' videos off YouTube.)Taken together, Archives' musical and visual material form as complete a picture of Neil Young's early years as the most diehard fan could hope for. But therein lies the fundamental flaw of Archives on DVD you can't take them together. Each track is housed in a virtual file folder that allows you to play the audio track or scour the bonus content; there is no way to do them simultaneously. So your options are either to let the music play uninterrupted (while your screen displays serene film loops of spinning record players and reeltoreel machines), or exit \"play\" mode and silently sift through the extras without being able to actually listen to the song those extras are meant to contextualize. It's like being told that your computer can run iTunes, or your web browser, but you have to shut down one to use the other. It means you end up spending as much time fiddling with your DVD menu controls as enjoying the material you're trying to access. You have to spring for the Bluray to access different pieces of media simultaneously.Brian Eno was recently quoted as saying that if the practice of selling music in physical form is to continue, the emphasis will have to shift from the content to the form, to enable a unique user experience that can't be replicated with the click of a mouse. Archives constitutes a bold step towards this new paradigm, where the delivery system is as much in service to the supplemental materials as the music that ephemera serves to canonize. And for all its multimedia chicanery, Archives ultimately seeks to reassert an oldfashioned mode of attentive listening and engagement that's been mostly lost as music becomes a WiFistreamed soundtrack to some other activity. But if Neil expects his fans to retain their enthusiasm for future volumes (particularly when the focus shifts to his erratic 80s output), he'll need to make that immersion process more fluid, less disruptive. Certainly Archives' first volume contains enough audio and visual stimuli to keep a Neil Young fan busy till the next edition arrives (presumably) in 2029. But that's as much a comment on the impractical, timeconsuming interface as the content itself. "}