{"label":" Audio Dregs","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1305/homepage_large.9e9816aa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Carpet Musics","title":"Weekday","text":" I can't really play the piano, but I do know the basic I, IV and V chords. When I find myself in front of a keyboard and I'm with people who can't play, it's fun to improvise a little melody on this foundation. I just do a walking bassline with my left hand and hit some random notes that fit with the chords with my right. If I play slowly, the little tune that spins out has an impressive melancholic quality, considering the complete lack of skill and talent that went into it. Idyllictronic (Ryan, make that royalty check out to Simon Reynolds) bedroom producers Carpet Musics, consisting of Oregonians Eric Diaz and Eric Mast, realize the strength that comes from simplicity. The 14 tracks on their debut, Weekday, are filled with these basic chord progressions, gently tapped on dreamy synthesizers and guitars set to \"ambient,\" with just a hint of distortion to reflect recent trends in glitch. These tiny music box tunes are quite effective in their own modest way, and the record as a whole sustains a mood and is consistently enjoyable. Still, there's something just a bit too polite about Weekday, and the lack of tension keeps it from being great, or even particularly memorable. No, it's definitely not Top 10 material, though there are certain situations where this record would be perfect. A gray day when your friends are out of town, you're just getting over the flu, and you're too broke to buy any new records would be the perfect time to hear \"Dawn,\" a track which reminds me of a strippeddown demo for Schneider TM's \"The Light 3000\" (sans vocals). The minutelong \"Bathrobe\" has a palpable sadness, not unlike some of the short transitional bits on Boards of Canada's Music Has the Right to Children. \"Afternoon\" is a continuation of the earlier \"Noon,\" a track with fingerpicked electric guitar and some gurgling synths that transforms itself into a dystrophic (and adorable) techno rhythm about 2\\xBD minutes in, reminiscent of Nobukazu Takemura's work as Child's View. It's an ideal track for relaxing on the couch as the sun fades away and you continue to wait for the mailman to bring that promised package of promo CDs. And \"Fashion Magazine,\" with its 4/4 house thump and a Clusterized melody ripped from the Schlammpeitziger fakebook, would set the mood for a shared cup of tea in a sunny kitchen, a respite to talk intimately about the latest Sonig releases. There's not a thing wrong with functional music, and that's how this record strikes me. So while Weekday keeps me at arm's length emotionally, it works so well as background that it's worth keeping around. "}