{"label":" Mule","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14195/homepage_large.bc3b34ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"My Favorite Things, Vol. 2","text":" Label comps are the stepchildren of the dance world, providing none of the functionality of your typical format: they lack the exclusivity and collectability of a new 12\", the statementmaking of a mix, or the cohesiveness of a proper LP. Labels like Mule Electronic complicate the situation further, as we can't ascribe to them any scene or sound specific enough to rally behind (think Kompakt's Total series or the Skull Disco comps). Despite this, Mule Electronic, which trades chiefly in varying strands of minimal and techno, has served as a worthy home for some of this decade's most productive, creative electronic acts. My Favorite Things, Vol. 2, featuring exclusive and/or upcoming tracks from artists like Isolée, Minilogue, Move D, and DJ Koze, offers a chance to delve (slightly) deeper into the catalogs of some favored artists.My Favorite Things, Vol. 2 celebrates Japanbased Mule's fifth anniversary, and it's as much a marketing opportunity as a party: In addition to the headlining acts mentioned above, MFT2 offers peeks into comparative unknowns like (recent Mule signee) Foog, Ribn (a new project from Manuel Tur), and Strategy. There's no need to search for a unifying sound or theme on a comp like this, but the mood of MFT2 is dreamy and expansive, though aggressive, techy pulses from Ribn (\"Lum Lum\") and Strategy (\"My Synthetic Guitar\") will snap any drooping eyelids.The sound of the comp is almost perfectly summed by \"Jill\", an albumtrack preview from Dial coowner Lawrence. A clacky, metronomic beat taps industriously under an alternating bass figure and slurred, ambient keyboards. Newcomer Foog's \"Kanazawa\" is one of the track's dancier beats, featuring a tunneling bass channel and wayoff, smeared blasts of Rhodes, like deep house with any trace of disco orientation beaten out of it.The big guns alternate between the rote (Isolée's funky but strangely wanting \"Albacares\") and the exciting: Move D's brilliantly named \"Happylock\" is twitchy and floororiented in ways that last year's (still excellent) Songs From the Beehive was not. The big winners are Minilogue, whose \"My Teenager Gang\" (now a 12\") offers 10 minutes of vinylheated, tropic jam. Beginning with a rollicking deephouse bleat, the track accumulates chattering rainforest sounds and youthful chants; \"My Teenager Gang\" surpasses nearly everything from the danceoriented half of last year's Animals. Other highlights include Koss' \"Earth (Âme Remix)\", which provides loose, urbanwilds shuffle, and the stillunderrated DJ Koze's \"First Snow\", which closes MFT2 with a gorgeous, organtinted fadeout.My Favorite Things, Vol. 2 isn't essential listening tech fans will likely accumulate this material more organically, and Mule still lacks a true crossover success but for anyone looking to take a second step into a favorite artist, or perhaps anyone lacking the time (or locale) to scour newarrival 12\"'s, MFT2 is a mostly winning collection from a steady, commendable label. "}