{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14180/homepage_large.96fd3f08.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Tim Exile","title":"Listening Tree","text":" Tim Exile (né Tim Shaw) was made for the stage, but maybe not the stage you'd expect. Most of Exile's affectations billowy low tenor, showy buildups, rugged everyman looks, the glitzy stage name all point towards showbiz. The result is that Shaw's third album, and first for Warp, Listening Tree, sometimes sounds like Electronica: The Musical with Shaw playing the sashaying lead. It's occasionally a bit hokey, but Listening Tree trades on Shaw's genrehopping to build aggressive, kinetic dramas.Any of you crossover kids carrying your new Field record in a Smalltown Supersound tote and accustomed to your electronic music pattering on blissfully, beware: Listening Tree is an album where things properly happen lyrically, sure, but also musically. Shaw takes many of his cues from nonlinear boombappers like Aphex Twin or, if you're looking for someone more theatrical and obscure, Plaid. His compositions spatter and pluck and tumble outwards, each indelicate sound unfurling from another. Listening Tree's songs are so motionoriented, in fact, that Shaw's ScottWalkerfrontingtheHumanLeague vocals often serve as the calming influence.Listening Tree is the first Tim Exile album to play as a fullyformed song cycle, but it's hardly surprising that Shaw, a classically trained violinist who holds a master's degree in electroacoustic composition, would continue to explore his artistic boundaries. The results are mixed. On the slowbeat closer \"I Saw the Weak Hand Fall\", Shaw draws a convincing line between himself and crooners like Dave Gahan or early90s Bowie. \"Family Galaxy\"'s everythingtoeveryone pop opera suggests Shaw operates under different rules than most of his electronic peers. On the title track, on the other hand, Shaw limits his feverish mashing, allowing its pounding grandeur to develop naturally.The buzzing, wordless paranoia of \"There's Nothing Left of Me But Her and This\" shows Shaw can still produce the type of earworms he built his reputation on. The verses of \"Bad Dust\" are so cloistered and devilish they'd fit comfortably on a Coil album, but the wideopen choruses just as easily coopt Smithsstyle melodrama: \"I'm lying in the gutter/ Watching stars come crashing down upon my head.\"But then, the hokiness. \"Pay Tomorrow\" is four minutes of panging, bassheavy thwump, warning of the evils of... credit card debt (A chorus: \"Life is such a breeze, we're all so pleased it's got no consequences/ So let's indulge our senses and burn next year's finances\"). \"Carouselle\" rallies awkwardly against class inequality and the broken promises of consumerism; think Les Misérables but with more sequencers and, er, less humor.Put aside for a moment some awkward stancetaking hell, it's halfrefreshing to hear and note that Listening Tree is just an exhausting, demanding listen. Shaw's got the chops to concoct a showy, mutantelectronic opus that tosses genres IDM, drum'n'bass, electro around like ragdolls, but there's rarely any attention paid to pacing or to textures that exist outside the realm of earscraping technofabrics. Listening Tree's bigidea stomp is daring, contagious, and commendable. It's a singular sound that's as trying as any of the year's scarier noise records, but it's also uncompromising: a popmusic dealbreaker, even for fiscally responsible, architecturally dashing electropop. "}