{"label":" Rapster","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14185/homepage_large.94a46de7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"J Dilla","title":"Dillanthology 1: Dilla's Productions for Various Artists","text":" As much of a following as James Yancey has garnered since he passed away, it's frequently said that he should have had that following from the start; the only thing that kept him from a certain level of hiphop celebrity for many years was his tendency to stay behind the boards and avoid the spotlight. As Kelly Louise Carter noted in Vibe's article \"The Battle for J Dilla's Legacy,\" when A Tribe Called Quest's Beats, Rhymes and Life got nominated for a Grammy, QTip practically had to badger him into even going to the award ceremony. By that time, Jay Dee had already put his signature on three of my favorite hiphop tracks of the mid1990s the Pharcyde's \"Runnin'\", De La Soul's \"Stakes Is High\", and Tribe's \"Stressed Out\" but since he was still kind of an unknown quantity, I had no idea he'd had a hand in producing them. Even the encyclopedic Ego Trip's Book of Rap Lists, published right before the 90s ended, doesn't mention him, unless you count two Ummah remixes listed under \"QTip's Notable NonA Tribe Called Quest Productions.\"That would've been a great time to release something like the two volumes in the Dillanthology series when he had a rich enough body of work to justify them, but still had the kind of relative anonymity that would make it revelatory. Instead, what we get with these two compilations one volume of original productions, one of Dillaorchestrated remixes is a selection of damn good songs, and not enough of them. By now you know the usual pitfalls with bestofs: dedicated fans already have most of it, while neophytes still get an incomplete picture, and either group could just as well put together their own tailormade and arguably better version of it through singletrack downloads on iTunes. Throw in the fact that there's a pretty ridiculous surplus of unearthed and repurposed Dilla material lately (rumor has it one of his beats is going to be on the next Opeth record), and putting out a bestof in  2009 is an undertaking that'll only lead to loose ends and missing pieces.Volume 1 is typical of that quandary, where pretty much everything is great but you're left wondering why there's only 13 tracks on a disc that has room for another 25 minutes' worth. So you get \"Runnin'\" and \"Stakes Is High\", but no \"Stressed Out\" no Ummahdriven Tribe at all, actually, which could be due to the Best Of's eternal hitch of rights issues. At least there's still enough star power to exhibit how wide his reach was: the first seven tracks go PharcydeSlum VillageCommonBaduDe LaBustaRoots, which covers nearly every important collaborator from 95 through 2000 and balances well between the iconic (Common's singalong classic \"The Light\") and the leftfield (\"Show Me What You Got\", in which the world learned that Busta sounded ill over Stereolab loops). A few laterperiod cuts like the heatsizzle synth throb of A.G.'s \"Hip Hop Quotable\" and Steve Spacek's borderlineavantgarde souldrone single \"Dollar\" round things out, but it's still the Cliff's Notes version of a sprawling career: here's the classic stuff where he did souljazz beats with immaculate drums and beautiful, pulsing bass, now here's a couple of his grimier/stranger earlymidaughts stuff, now sort it all out.If you really want to get some illumination, the remixcentered Volume 2 is more essential by dint of this stuff being less familiar and often harder to find. By sticking mostly to Jay Dee's work through 2000 it feels more declamatory of a specific style: almost entirely late90s/Ummahera, where he had his work cut out for him revamping big hits but still found a way to lend his signature style to contexts where it really shone. Much of it consists of solid alternate takes of stuff he'd already produced (including a more heavyfunk take on \"Stakes Is High\" with new verses from Mos Def and Truth Enola), but there's other nuggets like the unreleased remixes of Masta Ace's \"Sittin' on Chrome\" and the Artifacts' \"The Ultimate\" that make this volume essential. The latterperiod stuff shines, too, especially the 2003 remix of Four Tet's \"As Serious as Your Life\" (featuring a superbuggedout watery guitar loop and verses from Guilty Simpson) and a hazy 2004 mutation of Brother Jack McDuff's \"Oblighetto\" that turns his organdriven \"Scenario\" source into a netherwordly ether frolic.But, inevitably, it leaves you wanting more, preferably from a source that's willing to go as deep as possi  ble. A prolific body of work like Dilla's demands a box set at least the size of one of the Complete Motown Singles volumes, not just a twodisc series that spans less than two hours . It's been done before; bootlegbuying cratediggers might've already snapped up the six volumes of Grand Slam Records' legallyquestionable sixvolume J Dilla Anthology series back in 2006. And someone somewhere is eventually going to do what the MP3 blog The Fly Life did with Timbaland and start circulating a ridiculous multidisc collection of his most essential productions.  Until then, Dillanthology Vol. 1 will provide a decent if incomplete starting point, Vol. 2 the backbone of the bigger picture, and Vol. 3 well, let's keep our fingers crossed. "}