{"label":" Third Man","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14181/homepage_large.09ddbc41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Dead Weather","title":"Horehound","text":" Pretty much every city in North America has an FM radio station boasting a slogan along the lines of \"Where Classic Rock Lives!\" But really, these are the places where classic rock goes to die, fossilized onto playlists that haven't been updated since the second Black Crowes album. You think it's hard getting attention for your psychfolkdiscoshitgaze collective? Try being an upandcoming meatandpotatoes bluesrock band, who are shut out from both hipsterblog discourse and the sort of mainstream media channels that theoretically should be nurturing them. Most people laughed at the Blueshammer scene in Ghost World; me, I just felt sorry for those dudes because once they leave that bar, there's really nowhere else for them to go.The plight of the postmillennial bluesrocker thus makes Jack White's ascent to superstardom all the more remarkable, having refashioned such deadhorse devices as slidegeetar riffs and Bonhamstyle boogies into something both exciting and exceedingly profitable. And he's done it by not just honoring the blues' authenticity, but exploiting the music's capacity for mythology, using it to color his world any way he sees fit, be it the candystriped fantasyland of the White Stripes, or the woodpanelled, Dazed and Confusedstyle nostalgia trip of the Raconteurs. And it's the reason he's been able to extend his golden touch to now a third band, the Dead Weather, who delve even deeper into the blues' swampy roots and devil'smusic deviancy, but in a manner that's every bit as stylized, sexually charged, and trashy as an episode of \"True Blood\". Of course, the major difference this time out is that White's dropped the guitar and returned to his first instrument, the drums. But the rearadmiral position hardly diminishes his presence; arguably, it gives him an even better vantage point to direct his cast, which includes Raconteurs bassist Jack Lawrence, Queens of the Stone Age keyboardist/guitarist Dean Fertita, and, in the starring role, Alison Mosshart of the Kills. Even though the Dead Weather is unquestionably a fullband effort, Horehound is designed as a showcase for its lead vocalist as much as the Whiteproduced Van Lear Rose was for Loretta Lynn Mosshart's face is front and center on the album cover, and after the cool electropop maneuvers of the Kills' Midnight Boom, her catinheat performances on Horehound suggest an eagerness to bust out of that band's minimalist, drummachined parameters, and give the sort of scrappy, scuzzrock songs that defined the Kills' early releases a fullblooded treatment.But while built from the same rudiments as its principals' other bands, the Dead Weather are greatly distinguished by a richness of atmosphere. Over its 11 tracks, Horehound rarely relents in its murky, humid, southerngothic ambience one that's greatly thickened by Fertita's Dr. Johnstyle organ mojo and Lawrence's array of fuzzbass effects. And if both the White Stripes and the Raconteurs have traditionally positioned their singles in the albumopener slots, the Dead Weather take their sweet time to settle into the deep marshland miasma of \"60 Feet Tall\"; taking a page from PJ Harvey's sizequeen routine, Mosshart belts out the title as a badge of invincibility while the song ebbs and flows between solitary bluespicking and eruptions of blastfurnace noise. On top of setting up Horehound's greyscale scenery, \"60 Feet Tall\" also establishes White's drumming style for the album simple and steadyasshegoes, favoring tensionbuilding snarerim rolls and strategically placed cymbal taps, with echoplexed accents to expand the sense of space.Or, in the case of the lessthanincendiary (and not entirely representative) single \"Hang You From the Heavens\" or its sluggish sister track, \"No Hassle Night\", he'll trip up the rhythm in an attempt to make a repetitive bluesrocker sound more dynamic. But even when perched behind the kit, White's not one to turn down a duet with fetching female foil, and Horehound really shows its teeth when he and Mosshart battle for mic control. Thankfully they do often, blurring their voices on the genderbending reggaeified funk strut \"I Cut Like a Buffalo\"; playing callandresponse on a deliciously sleazy Led Zepped take on Bob Dylan's \"New Pony\" and the Bad Seedy chaingang chant \"So Far From Your Weapon\"; and, literally, playing tug of war for control of the RoyalmonsterTrux groover \"Treat Me Like Your Mother\", which in Mosshart's hands sounds like less a plea for respect than an Oedipal enticement. Even Horehound's most reverential blues gesture the strungout acoustic reverie \"Will There Be Enough Water\" retains the album's haunted vibe, with a completely spent White and Mosshart begging for a few lifesaving drops that they know will never come. The songs on Horehound don't so much rock as writhe, reinstituting the idea of the blues as a sinister, morally corrupting force that's as much the province of voodoo priests and witch doctors as musicians. Perhaps Jack White's continued dominance over contemporary bluesrock is in fact the product of some deal with the devil and if that means more bands as fully realized as the Dead Weather, let's hope that Beelzebub will consider a contract renewal. "}