{"label":" Interdependent Media","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14182/homepage_large.ca24e49e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Finale","title":"A Pipe Dream and a Promise","text":" Dealing with underground MCs who exhibit a crippling lack of memorable lines is easy: You shrug, pay more attention to their flow and their beats instead, and then eventually forget about them until they show up in shuffle mode and remind you that their tracks need to be deleted to make more room for Wale freestyles or whatever. But those MCs that have too many memorable lines? They're trouble. Line after line of rapiddelivery punchline rap without any breathing room, no narrative or thematic structure to keep the listener oriented, tangled metaphors that'd take some unpacking even if they weren't put together in the most syllablejuggling, internalrhymefriendly way that shit's exhausting sometimes. You can hear the skill at work, but at its most extreme it actually takes some serious concentration to parse it all.Finale has this problem which, when you come down to it, is a pretty fortunate problem to have. There are few better ways to get people to hit rewind than to throw as much at them as possible, and the Detroit MC's A Pipe Dream and a Promise is at least generous enough to ensure that the stuff we catch the next time around is actually worth the repeat visit. It might take more than just a second listen to acclimate yourself to his flow, especially during the album's first half, which is frontloaded with quickcut verbal pyrotechnics and blinkandyou'llmissit wordplay. It acts like the lyrical equivalent of a Bourne movie action sequence: You know something kickass is happening, but it takes some adjusting of your everyday perception to lock onto it. You can thank Finale's voice for much of that: He has this halfraspy/halfhissing murmur of a voice with a sort of hiccupy percussive cadence to it, and it's so relentless in momentum that it's easy to get duped into thinking he's spitting faster than he actually is.Combine that with his tendency to keep his lyrics densely packed and throw around assonance like a pair of nunchucks, and it's a weird adventure following his lyrical train of thought (much less transcribing it). You could point at the production mix if you're frustrated, too, since his voice gets buried sometimes, and there are enough stray syllables and emphases that get lost in the snares and hihats to make his lyrical onslaught a bit too much of a blur. But it's not enough to detract from the pure flair for technique Finale exhibits, whether he's repping his place in the scene over some brilliantlyswiped breaks from Edgar Winter's \"Frankenstein\" on \"Arrival & Departure\", emphasizing his abilities over some warpedsounding guitar twang in \"Style\" or coolly muttering labyrinthine popcultureinfused declarations of unstoppability over Black Milk's electronic burble for \"One Man Show\".And fortunately, even though he's got that lyricalacrobat thing going on, he spits like that for more than just the sake of telling everyone what they can already hear in his flow. The second half of the record's where the concepts, the storytelling, and Finale's personality really start to come into play, and posit him as more than just a virtuoso rapping machine. Hearing him open up about his troubled upbringing in \"Issues\" (featuring a fantastic minimalist beat from Dimlite) or addressing his estranged, wayward sibling on \"Brother's Keeper\" keeps him grounded enough to let his style breathe and develop into something as resonant as it is flashy. \"The Senator\" has him taking \"The Wire\"'s infamous Clay Davis \"sheeeeeiiiiiiit\" and all and using his political malfeasance as a springboard for calling out liars on wax. And in the album's obligatory Dilla tributes, you can tell he's busted his ass to earn the right to his beats, not just in the fact that he completely annihilates \"Heat\" (\"Flood the game so heavy South Asia look like a puddle in the park/ Leave a mark like two preteens makin' hickeys in the dark/ Padlock your door like Joe Clark, every exit closed off\") but in the tribute he exhibits during \"Paid Homage (R.I.P. J Dilla)\". With a lush Flying Lotus remix of \"Fall in Love\" pulsing away behind him, Finale marvels over Dilla's dedication, recollects his humbled surprise that the man appreciated his work, and brings home just what he meant to the entire Detroit scene (\"main Motown component, the backbone of Conant\").There are so few MCs working today who are able to carry this much of an album on their own; aside from a couple of sharp verses from Invincible on \"The Waiting Game\" and a few spokenword interludes scattered throughout the album, Finale's voice dominates. And for all its lyrical claustrophobia, the album really falters only during those interludes, which are educational the first time around it's fun to hear Prince Whipper Whip talk about coming up old school at the end of \"Issues\" but skippable each time after that. They're kind of a nuisance, mostly because you'll probably be listening to this album a lot: first to get the hang of Finale's slippery, torrential style, and, then, eventually, to marvel at it. "}