{"label":" Tee Pee","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14205/homepage_large.b678f93d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Quest for Fire","title":"Quest for Fire","text":" \"Quest for Fire\", the seventh track from the fourth Iron Maiden album, Piece of Mind, is as epic as one might imagine: The guitars charge ahead and splinter for arch solos; the rhythm forms a tight battle march; singer Bruce Dickinson is on his operatic high, draping his vibrato over every little plot point. \"Joined by quest for fire/ They searched all through the land/ Joined by quest for fire/ Discovery of man,\" he sings in his melodramatic howl, offering a summary of an early French novel and a thenrecent English film of the same name. In all three quests, prehistoric tribes battle for a spark from a natural blaze, their adventures filled with animal attacks, theft, and, of course, badass triumph. Was there ever a more readymade Iron Maiden song?Despite the handle and a selftitled debut on New York stonerandpsychedelic syndicate Tee Pee Records, Toronto quartet Quest for Fire aren't just another metal band welding their adolescent scifi fantasies to British heavy metal allegiance. Quest for Fire deserve the name by maintaining the sense of grandeur of its namesakes. On Quest for Fire, finally available domestically after Montreal's Storyboard released it in 2008, the dudes stretch six songs to 43 minutes of distended riffs, patient drumming, and subtle textures. And though there are enough leaden riffs and tangential trips for the record to pass muster in the right stoner and psychedelic circles, Quest for Fire like the Deadly Snakes, the garagepop bastardgreats to which two of its members once belonged move beyond the expectations of their form. With a twoguitar approach and mutual interests in Black Sabbath sludge and druggy dreampop, Quest for Fire often suggest Built to Spill as much as Black Mountain or Birds of Avalon, Echo & the Bunnymen as much as Earthless.Quest for Fire generally find a good riff and grind away for five minutes or more. Sometimes they build into it and burn out in a blaze (\"Strange Waves\"), go straight for the throat and lash away until track's end (\"Bison Eyes\"), or build to and away from a roaring peak in the middle (\"The Hawk That Hunts the Walking\"). Quest for Fire focus more on tone and tune than technique, too, meaning that though the individual playing is certainly strong the band's a gestalt of sorts. Each song sweeps you in and moves you along, calling more attention to the general thrust than the individual performance. The solos are more functional than fantastic, working mostly to move the band from one speakershattering convergence to another.But there's always a little more going on than just four guys riffing in a room. Consider \"You Are Always Loved\", the album's most anomalous moment: A moody drifter of layers and contrast, the sevenminute tune centers on an acoustic guitar line so distant it feels like it's played by a ghost, and a tambourine that feels like too much of a burden to lift. A ragged electric guitar line and a steady march of cymbals and toms smolder around the broken ballad, washing past and pushing behind Chad Ross' forlorn, deaththreshold vocals.It's not the only track here with creative juxtaposition or interesting parts, though. \"Strange Waves\" buries an acoustic guitar and harmonica behind its juggernaut electric lumber, adding not just texture but the sort of finesse that makes you want to listen again, to peer around the thick curtains up front. At six minutes, \"I've Been Trying to Leave\" is a relatively short barnburner. And as Ross sings, \"Follow me to the sun,\" over a steely throb, it's one of the album's most riveting rock anthems. At one point, though, they shift out of the groove and riff, downshifting into a supreme bit of weird jangle that recalls vintage R.E.M. The relationship between the guitars on \"Next to the Fire\" seems complex enough to require a compass, map, and canteen to navigate. Sometimes, Ross and Andrew Moszynski paw away at the same riff, trying to reduce one theme to a vapor of dust. One or the other eventually separates himself simply by changing tone or spinning through unexpected variations that split the difference between Mahavishnu John McLaughlin and J. Mascis. So, yeah, epic just like that Iron Maiden track. "}