{"label":" Mad Science","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14216/homepage_large.f6c3d45f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"DJ Quik / Kurupt","title":"BlaQKout","text":" Rap history is biased towards royalty, whether you're the king of your block or the King of the South. DJ Quik's twodecade career has established him as one of the genre's great recording artists, but his maturation from teenage Compton DJ to a complex embodiment of California postgangster party rap doesn't have much cachet in a hiphop history that celebrates only winners. Quik's music feels increasingly undervalued; being known as the ultimate \"underrated\" West Coast rapperproducer has become a kind of selffulfilling prophecy. His latest record, a joint effort with Dogg Pound rapper Kurupt entitled  BlaQKout, finds the producer at his most creatively restless, forgoing the comfortable uptempo dance beats of his late90s peak for a style much more difficult to pin down. Each track feels unique; the producer sounds eager to push his own internal boundaries and subvert his stylistic quirks. But what makes this riskier record successful is also what makes it cohesive: it is a very fun album.Kurupt's career is similarly undervalued, albeit on a smaller scale; a rapper raised in Philly and famous in L.A., he bridged the cerebral, technical detachment of the East Coast with the West's gangster swagger and confrontational demeanor, before blasting off in more avant directions for his 2001 record,  Space Boogie: Smoke Oddessey. Although he continues to bring both styles to the table, BlaQKout finds the Dogg Pound member embracing his rapforrap'ssake lyrical experimentalism wholeheartedly. Kurupt seems so committed to the idea of saying not that much in a very complicated way that it's utterly compelling.Quik, on the other hand, is consistently literal, dealing in the concrete with memorable, loosely connected runon raps. He's also a schizophrenic lyricist, unafraid of imagery that seems out of place or contradictory to the overall mood, his charismatic charm rescuing verses that should undermine him conceptually. His confessional, endearing lyrics are like bar conversations with strangers where, after a few drinks, you start offhandedly spilling personal anecdotes to each other like old friends. At some basic level, Quik bonds easily with his audience, letting his guard down, expressing himself with uninhibited honesty.As a producer, Quik understands that making quality rap music isn't about banging out minor variations of a signature style. BlaQKout's narrative is one of surprise and variation, of creating one set of expectations, then pulling the rug out from underneath the audience one track later. One moment he's dropping confrontational funk banger \"Fuck Y'all\", stable hiphop head comfort food. By the next track, he's sampling Moroccan music from an episode of the Travel Channel's \"Bizarre Foods With Andrew Zimmern\", melding it to cavernous drums and a summerjamworthy chorus, all while rapping about trapping you in your nightmares and how your poison is his liquor. It is as if, after each song, Quik stepped back and entirely reconsidered the whole project, upsetting any predictable motion or boring moments by drawing from a bottomless bag of tricks.As the record progresses, however, there's more bravado to Quik's experimentalism. The closer he comes to untethered adventurousness, the easier it is to develop a nagging feeling that certain tracks are more interesting to talk about than they are to actually listen to. Consider \"Exodus\", a dubbedout pseudoJamaican interlude/instrumental chant with no rapping, or \"Jupiter's Critic & the Mind of Mars\", an abrasive, bizarre track with grinding, distorted electrobass. Both tracks are ridiculous and selfindulgent, but creative and fun at the same time. Quik's focus on amusingly upsetting the status quo is so wellconsidered, his spirit so fully committed to the idea of making this work, that he pulls this shit off.So what about Quik's worldview gives BlaQKout such cohesion, unites vibes as disparate as \"Do You Know\"'s shimmering gauziness and \"9x's Outta Ten\"'s thunderous, jagged exotica? After all these years, he's remained a great DJ. The conceptual approach to this record, its sequencing and contrasts, suggests he not only values the music on a songforsong basis, but is aware the metanarrative itself is significant. He knows the context of our reception affects our appreciation, and our willingness to let him push the envelope requires that we trust him not to leave us stranded. Imagine how different the record would have been if \"Jupiter's Critic\" was the lead single; ballsy, yes, but also presumptuous. Instead, we're eased into Quik's exhilarating world gradually. He earns our trust in order to take us wherever he wants to go, finally resolving with the satisfying consonance of \"The Appeal\". But it's also about his eagerness to entertain, to take risks in order to do something truly different.  BlaQKout doesn't come from boring rapper royalty. It's by a DJ, a modern court jester, his ideas shifting with raucous unpredictably, a performer who doesn't just make music, but shapes the way we hear it. "}