{"label":" Vogue College","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14214/homepage_large.b0afe1ed.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"VEGA","title":"Well Known Pleasures EP","text":" Alan Palomo was wearing a Michael Jackson Tshirt in publicity photos before TMZ told us the King of Pop had left the building. Earlier, as frontman for Denton, Texas, electrofunkateers Ghosthustler, Palomo appealed to Nintendo Power Glove nostalgia in a memorable video by director Pete Ohs. Now based in Austin and leading VEGA, Palomo has moved closer to the \"dream\" side of the \"dreamwave\" descriptor coined for his acts, but he's still refashioning the past with the loving dedication of so many VHStoYouTube archivists.Palomo may have his Power Glove in a few too many youngurbanretrofuturistic pies. Lefse Records has just announced a release date for the upcoming debut album by Neon Indian, Palomo's project with video artist Alicia Scardetta; at their best, the group's synthdripping bedroompop hypnotism rivals some of Deerhunterer Bradford Cox's Atlas Sound home recordings. Meanwhile, in Ghosthustler, Palomo made headbanging dancepop with the twiddly synths of Chromeo and the aggressive distortion of thenascendant French house labels Ed Banger and Kitsuné. VEGA's Joy Divisionreferencing debut EP, Well Known Pleasures originally slated for May release, and finally out digitally this month blasts that basic sound into more cosmicdiscoinfluenced frontiers, with pillowy electronic drifts and proggy solos.Given the evolution in band logos, it's tempting to see VEGA as Sega to Ghosthustler's N.E.S.: same computing power, more of a \"cult\" appeal. Except Well Known Pleasures has a couple of tracks that seem a bit more immediately crowdpleasing than anything I heard from Ghosthustler. Opener \"No Reasons\", with its choppedup vocals and laser squiggles, is a fine piece of Frenchtouched synthpop that ought to win over some fans of Cut Copy. And the title track, described by Discobelle as a \"smooth synthy pop track with a nice housey feeling,\" is basically just that, though the stilldeveloping vocals and lyrics shouldn't keep Phoenix up nights.In other places, despite taking a celestial name that most music fans probably associate with Suzanne (\"Tom's Diner\", \"Luka\") or Alan (Suicide), VEGA could almost score the credits of a vintage episode of PBS's \"Nova\". Slow, dramatic arpeggios float out from highsustain synths on spacedisco power ballad \"Fondly\", which ends with the type of noodling progisms you'd expect on a Lindstrøm epic. Closing synth lullaby \"Other End\" is over and forgotten in barely a minute and a half. But \"Kyoto Gardens\" is the only spot where VEGA really fall flat, stumbling over the same wellworn lyrical material as Little Boots' \"New in Town\" with a by now familiar formula of 80s electro, turnofthemillennium French house, and late2000s spacey expansiveness.All that adds up to two pretty good tracks and three somewhat satisfying but generally unremarkable ones, in less than 30 minutes. If you're as focused on VEGA's particular niche as they are, then Well Known Pleasures might well be a pleasure. That's still a long way from the allembracing pop of the guy on the Tshirt. I'm more excited for Palomo's future retro or otherwise. "}