{"label":" Renaissance","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14222/homepage_large.525d250c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Hercules and Love Affair","title":"Sidetracked","text":" Not enough of what's written about Hercules and Love Affair talks about how they've managed to carve out two different narratives for themselves in parallel. On paper, and to many trainspotting DJ types, they're the sole invention of Brooklynbased producer Andy Butler; this arrangement wherein interchangeable parts orbit around a single driving force is one we all recognize and understand. In the live environment, though, that dynamic isn't so clear cut. On stage, Hercules and Love Affair's many moving parts combine for a theatrical reimagining of late1970s and early80s disco. That music was loaded with sexual identity politics, reclamation cries, and, ultimately, an overriding inclusivity; H&LA's forceful live configuration emanates those aspects so totally that one might leave wondering whose show it really is.This pushpull, of course, is no bad thing. More than anything, it allows for a level of dialogue between producer and live performers that most crossover dance acts frequently aim for and miss (cough, Basement Jaxx, cough). It adds dimension; Butler may be the creative force, but it's the rest of H&LA who provide the sense of community and surprise that ratifies and contextualizes his output. He's the DJ, they're the party. He's Hercules, and... yeah, you get the point.As Hercules and Love Affair's first commercial mix, the superb Sidetracked affords Butler the opportunity to step outside that feedback loop and straightup DJ. Judging from the immediacy and sheer exuberance of this set, you can tell it's an opportunity he relishes. If last year's studied, nuanced DFA debut hinted at a talent with an impressive record collection and quietly sturdy judgment, Sidetracked cements it. With a menu consisting mostly of oldschool disco, Euro house and slightly offkilter electro, this is one of those rare sets that works every bit as equally as a party mix as it does as a sort of travelogue of influences. By the first three tracks, which sees Butler link Westbam's zippy, overeager \"And Party\" to Todd Terry's icecool hiphop drum pastiche \"No Pares (Don't Stop)\" to an oblong, twerky discohouse original (new H&LA track \"I Can't Wait\" sadly not a Nu Shooz cover), we're in full bloom.The rest of Sidetracked continues pretty much on that level, with Butler's keenly tuned ear for midtempo lifts and staccato breaks working across decades and continents. Early90s synth stabs from Belgian Euro house alsorans Fax Yourself sit prettily alongside a revelatory bit of mutant disco from Brooklyn's In Flagranti (\"I Hadn't Screwed Around Before\"), released earlier this year. An obscure sliver of big beat from Berlin's Daniel Wang (\"Zola Has Landed\") finds new life when plunked next to the protodubstep of Rhythm Masters' \"Oh Oh Why\". The Moroderinfluenced grind of Montreal producer Gino Soccio's \"Dream On\" leads into the dainty, featherlight \"Dreaming\" from Italy's early80s disco outfit Rainbow Team. On paper, you wouldn't expect this stuff to fit nearly so well together.This edition of Sidetracked is the first in a new series from longtime house giant Renaissance, and while one might reasonably question the wisdom of getting into the commercial mix series game at a time when the best benchmark for this sort of thing is arguably a free weekly podcast, it's hard to deny they've made a strong first showing here. Sidetracked includes a second disc featuring uncut and original versions of all these tracks, a perk that's admittedly worth mentioning only in light of Butler's mix consisting of songs you'd actually want unabridged versions of in the first place. As a first salvo, though, it's pretty hard to fault; if vintage disco, classic house, and gurning Euro house are up your street, this is as happymaking as it gets. "}