{"label":" Yep Roc","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1310/homepage_large.412c9c02.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Caitlin Cary","title":"I'm Staying Out","text":" Caitlin Cary deserves at least one review that doesn't doggedly refer to her former Whiskeytown bandmategoneGapcommercial the eternallyjean jacketed, pinching Mick Jagger's ass in Rolling Stone, nowawkwardly ubiquitous Ryan Adams but it seems unlikely (red handed, here) that she'll ever get it. I'm Staying Out, Cary's prompt followup to her 2002 debut While You Weren't Looking, is full of earnest, hipsterbucking countrified pop, thick with violins, keyboards and soft, plaintively breathed lyrics about obstinate women, girlish pining, and Sunday mornings spent curled tightly in bed. Adams' musical influence on I'm Staying Out is dismissible at best, but his smirking, messyhaired ghost seems destined to forever haunt Caitlin Cary's Carolina halls, grinning toothily, bobbing his head, and snottily if unintentionally distracting everybody from what's really going on. At least stylistically, Cary's landed a fair distance away from the guy she now coyly (albeit affectionately) describes as \"some kid I used to be in a band with.\" Whereas Adams has layered his postHeartbreaker solo work with loads of dumb rock star swagger and some stupidly intentional Parsonsesque photographs of flags and pistols (and darkhaired models in bed? Cigarettes? Headphones?), Cary's is far less concerned with punk posturing, corporate sponsorship, or attracting the fickle affections of Winona Ryder. This is sweet, safely melancholic, prettybutbenign stuff; perfectly competent, I'm Staying Out compensates for its lack of spectacular innovation by showcasing its players' technical prowess and busting out a handful of intensely sincere performances. Cary's pitchperfect alto seems altcountry certified: partNatalie Merchant, partLucinda Williams, and occasionally see \"Please Break My Heart\" skewing a bit Patsy Cline. Cary's is a consistently rich and effortless croon, pushing through straightforward midtempo pop songs full of subfiddle flights for guitar solos, threadedin keyboards and the occasional mandolin or clavinet with impressive, comforting ease. With her indisputable violin chops, Cary had already brazenly bowed her way through Whiskeytown's twodeep discography, breaking up Adams' guitar pummeling with her subtle, satisfying coos. Here, with Jayhawk Jen Gunderman lending a solid foundation of organ, piano, and backing vocals, Cary's fiddling shines. \"Cello Girl\" mixes literock electric guitar stroking with violin lines and steady percussion; the excellent \"Sleepin' In On Sunday\" is a gentle and soothing lullaby, restrained percussion and lilting, lazy vocals making its name feel awfully (if predictably) apt. Title track \"I'm Staying Out\" is riddled with sadeyed, syrupy country twang and the obligatory lostlove lyricisms (\"I know you are waiting for me to come home/ I hate to think of you spending this night all alone/ But I'm not coming back, dear/ Not never or now,\") while the equally downtrodden \"In A While\" cleanly incorporates the wails of dobro, trumpet, and baritone/tenor sax.  Periodically Cary's songwriting evokes the semiconfessional, intermittently caustic women songsmiths of the midtolate 1970s (Carly Simon, Carole King, Stevie Nicks), weaving strong vocal melodies with pleasant instrumentation, and working, for the most part, within traditional versechorusverse song structures. Cary occasionally hops out of 4/4, but she's not really kicking down any new sonic paths. It's all very fine and good, it's just not especially compelling. No matter how different Cary and Adams' postWhiskeytown outputs have been, neither has quite approached the tired, subdued beauty of altcountry landmark Pneumonia. So thank you, dismantled Whiskeytown, for stocking our shelves with plenty of perfectly capable, occasionally tiresome, bandless altcountry singer/songwriters. Now get on with that reunion, please. "}