{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14230/homepage_large.e8d41e3d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Julian Plenti","title":"Julian Plenti Is... Skyscraper","text":" On paper, this could have been an absolute trainwreck: Interpol guy resurrects his Eurotrashy recording alias and puts out a solo album notsohot on the heels of his band's first truly notgood record. Though bassist Carlos D is probably the most widely lampooned member of Interpol, singer/guitarist Paul Banks he of \"HER STORIES ARE BORING AND STUFF\" and other louted lyrics often bears the brunt of unfair Joy Division comparisons and similarly unfair assertions that Interpol is \"just\" a rhythm section band. Banks' assumed moniker, and Skyscraper's \"Law & Order: Special Birthdays Unit\" artwork, didn't really do much to assuage the fear that this record would only provide more fodder for naysayers. Thankfully, the opposite is true: While Julian Plenti Is... Skyscraper is not as strong or as exciting as Interpol's first two records, it is certainly a step up from their third, and makes a good case for Banks' individual strengths within and without the band.None of which is to say that  Skyscraper is a huge departure. \"Only If You Run\" is host to monolithic drums and layered guitars that would be right at home on an Interpol record. Even Banks' trademark delivery is largely unchanged here; I don't think anybody else could deliver the line, \"I've tasted degradation,\" with the same weirdly agitated flatness. Skyscraper leads off with two of its most Interpoly tracks, which is in a way reassuring, but also evokes an unwelcome sense of deficiency. Banks' minimal, repetitive vocal lines leave a lot of room for the kind of propulsive instrumental flourishes at which Interpol excel, and without strong background players Banks occasionally comes across as minimal and repetitive in a less flattering sense.Only on \"Skyscraper\" does Banks begin to use this space to his advantage. On first listen, the song comes off as a bit overlong and heavy on atmosphere, but something about the way Banks measures out the syllables of \"shake me, shake me, skyscraper\" is strangely haunting. Here, the absence of Banks' bandmates works to his advantage; when he matches the intensity of Interpol's nimble and forceful rhythm section, Banks often SOUNDS LIKE HE'S SINGING IN ALL CAPS ALL THE TIME. Here, Banks has more room to explore a quieter register without it serving as a straightup counterpoint to the \"loud\" songs (à la \"Hands Away\" on Turn on the Bright Lights).Elsewhere, a similarly minimal approach has the opposite effect: On \"Unwind\", Banks explores exuberant pop in a way that Interpol never could, building an entire song around a simple vocal line, a drum loop, and trumpet fanfare. \"Games for Days\" shoots for a similarly triumphant big rock chorus via more conventional structure and arrangement, but lands on slick and generic. Predictably, there are some skeezy lyrics here, but as with Interpol's best songs they rarely seem at odds with the music itself, and often add to the air of unease that permeates much of the record.I don't know what exactly it says about Paul Banks, but the most borderlineembarrassing tracks on Skyscraper are, in fact, the strongest it's the safe, formulaic moments that fall flat and, unfortunately, make up a substantial portion of the record. Still, Skyscraper  is difficult to complain too much about: It establishes Banks' viability as a musician outside of the context of Interpol, and it reaffirms the unique potency of Interpol as a band. RIGHT ON. "}