{"label":" Control Group","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14237/homepage_large.d76f15b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"I Was A King","title":"I Was a King","text":" Not to get all protectionist here, but it seems pointless to import so many 1960smining indie rock outfits to America when we've got plenty of perfectly good 60smining acts right here at home. Yet Norway's I Was a King offer a welcome twist on the same ol'. Sure, all the usual signifiers are swimming through the group's selftitled second album, as well as elements borrowed from pioneering 60s synthesists Big Star or the Raspberries (the group covers a song from 60s survivor Larry Norman, too). But I Was a King also go well beyond that span, right up through the 1990s heyday of shoegaze and its own sideways 60s synthesists, from Teenage Fanclub to My Bloody Valentine.Imagine Matthew Sweet's \"Girlfriend\", only with Kevin Shields and J Mascis subbed in for Robert Quine and Richard Lloyd, and you get an idea of I Was a King's cumulative, generationspanning appeal, at least theoretically. But as good as that may read, the sounds here are mostly enlisted in service of largely predictable and not quite fully formed powerpop. It doesn't help that Frode Strømstad isn't much of a singer, but in his defense, his thin vocals are secondary to the craft. To that end Strømstad's roped in some impressive ringers: Sufjan Stevens, Serena Maneesh's Emil Nikolaisen, Danielson's Daniel Smith, the Ladybug Transistor's Gary Olson, all of whom produce or play throughout the disc. Just what they all contribute, specifically, isn't revealed by the sleeve notes, nor is their influence readily apparent (barring Nikolaisen's love of fuzz). But neither does Strømstad sound like some puppet, instead confidently directing songs such as \"Breathe\" and \"Step Aside\" through their fleeting but hooky paths.The record's relative facelessness is lifted, however, when Strømstad knocks out one of the album's handful of highlights. Pianopadding aside, \"It's All You\" is melancholy powerpop at its finest, matched by the mellow Dino Jr. roar of \"Not Like This\" and \"Weighing Anchor\". Best of all is \"Norman Bleik\" (as if all the subtle Teenage Fanclub nods weren't obvious enough) the perfect balance of jangle and fuzz that handily wraps up all the group's strong points into one tidy package.Curiously, all these songs come at the tail end of the album, and, coincidentally or not, most hone closer to the threeminute mark or beyond, too, an arguable sign that Strømstad knew a good thing when he wrote it and fleshed it out. Conversely, these peaks lessen the impact of the rest of the disc, revealing the flaws of even longtested rock formulas. Hooks are one thing, but songs are another, and the former can only rarely carry the latter. I Was a King aren't quite at that point, but the band's definitely worth watching. "}