{"label":" Crammed Discs","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14249/homepage_large.70154d42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Mocky","title":"Saskamodie","text":" The \"Mockumentary\" for Mocky's new album, Saskamodie, portrays the musician as a kind of musical Zelig, turning up in archival footage of 1950s Egyptian jazz, a 1979 mariachi concert, Japanese koto drumming, even participating in a threeway drum battle with Art Blakey and Elvin Jones. Narrated by a graybeard music professor and featuring cameos from collaborators like Feist, Jamie Lidell, and Gonzales, it's a clever conceit brilliantly executed, and probably deserving of some sort of prize, if there's anything like a Grammy for best online EPK.But such a jokey angle doesn't really doesn't do justice to the album. Mocky (Toronto's Dominic Solale, long based in Berlin) isn't so much chameleonic as exceptionally versatile, as he's shown again and again as a songwriter, arranger, backup musician, and producer for the likes of Feist, Lidell, and Jane Birkin. (It's hard to think of any other musician that's worked with both Kevin Blechdom and Nikka Costa.) Reflecting the broad pop sensibilities of those collaborations, Saskamodie ditches the quirky electrofunk of previous Mocky albums in favor of acoustic instrumentation and lilting songs in the spirit of 60s lounge jazz and easylistening soul.Mocky and his accomplices recorded the album in two weeks at Paris' Ferber Studios, the site of classic recordings by Nina Simone and Serge Gainsbourg. He paid for the sessions out of the winnings of a lawsuit against an Austrian supermarket chain that had used his music without permission, a detail that might seem extraneous if it weren't so metaphorically fitting, Mocky weaving contemporary freemarket capitalism's dross into golden shapes evocative of a simpler, but also more ambitious, musical era. Saskamodie isn't, by any stretch of the imagination, a \"challenging\" record. Around a traditional jazz rhythm section, the diffuse strings, glockenspiels, and woodwinds carry a whiff of liteFM. Tempo and timbre both favor lullaby moods; melodic riffs laze and lilt, shadowed by harmonies as dulcet as they come.Saskamodie is an exceptionally intimate album, the product of a closeknit group effacing their own egos behind the ghosts lingering in their chosen studio. Mocky, who has a wonderfully warm, throaty voice, nestles his singing in amongst the instrumental tracks, rarely letting lyrics assume center stage. You might not even notice Feist's contribution, which peeks over the mix's horizon in faint close harmony. \"Music to My Ears\" features Lidell but forgoes words entirely, with rounded syllables stepping in unison with piano and bass. Indeed, it might take some close listening before you realize that many of the album's vocal tracks are wordless. Even \"Birds of a Feather\" (featuring Gonzales and Joel Gibb), one of the record's few songs with actual lyrics, carries the refrain with a chorus of whistling. But instead of coming off as kitsch, it's one of the album's most innocent and compelling moments, summing up the whole question of musical expression with childlike simplicity.Couched in yielding textures and hushed tones, the album might initially come off as slight. The easylistening touches are loaded signifiers, after all, and a kind of critical shutdown is a notinconceivable response. This ain't Battles, but it also isn't fluff. It took me some time a few weeks of listening, followed by a month spent away from the album for me to hear beyond the airy sonics and allow the full weight of the songwriting and arrangements to sink in. When they do, you'll be struck by Saskamodie's wit and grace. It's an inspired, giving album whose generosity is masked by its easygoing veneer. It's an exceptionally musical album there's no other word for it that could fail to seduce only the hardest of hearing, or the hardest of hearts.[Listen to the album here] "}