{"label":" Ministry of Sound","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14252/homepage_large.0fe84fdf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Ministry of Sound","title":"The Sound of UK Funky","text":" UK funky has been the most exciting thing in dance music the past 18 months or so, but it nonetheless remains a tricky thing to pin down. After all, what is UK funky other than house music produced by Londoners? Sure, it's house produced by refugees from UK garage and grime looking to have a good time while bringing their sonic and stylistic baggage with them: But, well, so what? It's still just house, isn't it? But UK funky is both \"just house\" in its most conventional sense and also \"other than house\" in pretty much every manner that is worth pursuing. It's house at the point where house becomes rave, R&B, rap, dancehall, soca, and, a lot of the time, just manic percussion. But also, a lot of the time, just house.All of which makes packaging this emerging genre a difficult proposition: UK Funky is like a magic eye picture, its startling multigenre topography invisible to the naked eye until you discover, perhaps by accident, the right perspective from which to observe it. For many listeners, myself included, the right perspective was provided by the imposition of the MC. On a good radio set mixing fast and loose from one track to next, treating fullblown songs like they're functionalist riddims the MC confirms that the closest fit for funky's sensibility is dancehall: hence the obsessive focus on dance crazes, the trash'n'treasure opportunism of its sonic eclecticism, and, most importantly, the unlikely balancing act of its covalent relationship between vocal and groove, mouth and body.In its overdue attempt to come to grips with UK funky, the Ministry of Sound stable was never going to allow an MC to spoil proceedings, if only because this might alienate listeners expecting a more conventional take on \"funky house.\" Partly as a result, this slick 3xCD collection cannot capture the ravey excitement of a the best funky radio shows (so search, if you can, Mak 10 and MC Shantie's set for Deja Vu FM). But these reservations aside, Ministry of Sound Presents the Sound of UK Funky is about as good as anyone reasonably could have hoped.Well, nearly: the mostly great first disc courtesy of Pioneer can drift into tepid territory at times, keen to remind you  of the music's roots in the more polite end of U.S. house. But the second and third discs, mixed by Footloose and Supa D respectively, are mostly spectacular. Of the two, Supa D gets the lion's share of current scene anthems, from Crazy Cousinz's peerless xylophone workout \"Inflation\" to the hyperactive electrodancehall of Perempay & Dee's \"Buss It\" to the rippling but rough bongo fetishism of Fr3e's \"Tribal Skank\" (spoilt somewhat by the addition of a perfunctory and uninspired vocal). But if Supa D's set is strongest trackfortrack, Footloose's set is the more enjoyable by a small margin, perhaps because it edges closer to portraying UK funky in its absolute best light.Put this down to the irrepressible energy of Footloose's mixing, the way he impatiently jumps from one track to the next, or teases out transitions to create hybrid tracks where competing rhythms jut into one another like rotor blades. It also seems to be mixed slightly faster, giving snareheavy tunes like Crazy Cousinz's remix of Kid Cudi vs Crookers' \"Day 'N' Nite\" or Tru's remix of Karizma's \"Darqness\" a steroidal muscularity they might lack at a more stately tempo. Funky's stumbling but cheerful rhythms seem primed to soundtrack alcohol consumption rather than drug use, but at their manic best these selections latch onto that fleeting moment at the very beginning of drunkenness, when enthusiasm and adrenalin bring on a rush of energy that's as dangerous as it is enjoyable.What Footloose and Supa D's sets share is an almost perverse attraction to the genre's extremities: both take a childish delight in jumping from sweet vocal tunes to menacing percussive numbers and back again. So Footloose switches from the hyperintense ravesoca of his remix of Brasstooth's \"Celebrate Life\" into the slinky Latin swish of Delio D'Cruz vs KCAT's \"Get Off The Wall\", all highpitched vocals and shiveringly delicate beats, while Supa D overlays the sly R&B of L.A. Cartier's \"Call Me\" with a full minute of overbearing, clanking tribal drums from Bakongo's \"Bambara\".But UK funky isn't solely about this kind of outeredge gymnastics. Rounding out Supa D's disc, the driving piano stomp and yearning, ghostly male vocals of Fuzzy Logik's \"The Way You Move\" offer a simple, moving love letter to classicist early house, while closer \"I Feel\" by NatMor is simply timeless, delectable vocal garage, its lush groove and stirring diva chorus temporarily making \"other than house\" seem like a pointless destination. It's not, but UK funky's fetish for transformation isn't pursued at the expense of remembering its origins, and the resulting conflation of past, present, and future offers the best of all possible worlds. "}