{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14265/homepage_large.4cb5e90e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Bergraven","title":"Till Makabert Väsen","text":" For the edge of metal's map, consult Hydra Head Records. The L.A.viaBoston label started out in New Mexico in the 1990s bending the rules of hardcore punk with bands like Converge, Cave In, Coalesce, and Botch. About five years ago, Hydra Head began taking on metal. Influential acts like Jesu, Khanate, and Xasthur have stretched metal's boundaries. Now metal includes the fuzzy, the broken, and the weak characteristics antithetical to traditional metal (precise, constructed, strong). In short, Hydra Head metal is art metal. Purists hate it for abandoning metal culture. In place of the metal uniform (black shirts, blue denim) is an array of pastel colors. Goodbye, spikes and leather; hello, trucker hats. Those who like loud guitars but are scared of metalheads can get with Hydra Head.On one hand, the label's metal is a diluted kind. Few things are as powerful as pure, uncut metal, whether it be death metal, doom metal, black metal, or thrash. These subgenres have had decades to work out ideal formulations. But purity can come from fencesitting if that is an artist's nature. Sweden's Bergraven, a oneman band by Pär Gustafsson, is one example. Its debut, 2004's Fördärv, didn't know whether to be black metal or something else. The record's black metal was serviceable, but stray codas and preludes suggested a predilection for psychedelia. Three years later, followup Dödsvisioner embraced such duality. Bergraven turned into sort of a dark rock act. Elements of black metal, like raspy vocals and raw guitars, remained, but clean tones and bent melodies weaved throughout. Unlike much of black metal, the band had an identity.Till Makabert Väsen goes further down this path. Now the melodies are elongated and spidery. Their offkilter dissonance suggests a quieter Deathspell Omega. Slint playing black metal might sound like this. Gustafsson doesn't forget to step on the distortion pedal, though. After wandering through funhouses of skewed high end, songs return to big, rocking riffs. Fellow Swedes Lifelover similarly mate black metal and pop, though they are more tongueincheek. Katatonia on hallucinogens also comes to mind. Some passages suggest Opeth's ornate prog, though much spicier. Pop music often compresses huge worlds into small structures. Bergraven does the opposite. Song start small, then grow tendrils, teeth, and fur. Five minutes later, they're roaring and hissing. Then the shoots and leaves return to the ground. They leave behind an aroma with many notes: black metal, rock, pop, studio weirdness. The smell is unmistakably Bergraven's. "}