{"label":" Alpha Pup","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14260/homepage_large.26e2d537.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Nosaj Thing","title":"Drift","text":" Nosaj Thing is Jason Chung, a 24yearold producer from California with loose ties to Flying Lotus and the L.A. glitchhop scene. His gorgeously haunted debut Drift makes it clear that while he shares a lot with Flying Lotus a base of operations, likeminded compatriots, a deep love of hiphop and a thousand strains of electronic music they're pretty far apart in terms of approach. Spatially speaking, Flying Lotus' music is like a cluttered studio apartment overflowing with interesting bricabrac hiphop records, comics, pieces of modern art. Chung's music, meanwhile, is spacious and reverberant, every element echoing into the emptiness surrounding it. Drift came out on Alpha Pup, the label run by underground hiphop producer Daddy Kev, and Nosaj Thing produced tracks on Busdriver's latest record, but Drift has little of anything that might be recognized as \"hiphop\" on it, none of Flying Lotus' breakbeats or his analogtape warmth. From a mood point of view, its gloomy beatscapes have a lot more in common with the bassheavy London dubstep scene than anything his fellow L.A. laptop nerds are doing.Drift's dubstep influence is immediately apparent in the chilly minorkey synths and fractured, ghostly drum programming of \"Us\" and \"Fog\", which evokes Burial. Chung has a similar flair for atmospherics and fondness for dank spaces; the drum sounds on \"IOIO\" resemble both the dripping of leaky pipes and swarming, squeaking rats. He also shares a firm belief that great drum sounds come from everywhere. On \"1685/Bach\", for instance, they come from the peeling of masking tape and jingling change.This magpie ear for odd, leftfield sounds is Drift's most explicit link to glitchhop. The endlessly pinging synthesizer on \"Light #1\" seems to careen off every available surface, while it's companion \"Light #2\" builds from a prism of Tronlike laser blurts. Chung clearly relishes a good rugpulling, and he plays a thousand little tricks on your senses throughout the record breathing sounds fluttering high in the mix, echoing, hallofmirrors synthesizers. Occasionally, things get a little too lavalamp; I wouldn't want to listen to \"Coat of Arms\" while stoned, as I think the halting strobelight effect might make me seasick.Chung is clearly also fascinated by darkness and impenetrability, and Drift is filled with nighttime sounds. The brief moments of light, when they penetrate, feel slightly unreal; the woozy major chords of \"2222\" sound submerged, an impression reinforced by the sucking sounds surrounding them, similar to the noises you hear in your ears as you swim for the surface of a pool. At the twominute mark in \"Light #1\" synths streak across the track like shafts of sunlight, and on \"Lords\", the final track, we're surprised by the late entrance of a rarely heard sound on the LP harmonized human voices, relatively untouched by filtering and effects, cooing wordlessly. It's a last dose of cold water to the face on a record full of such moments. There are sonic Easter Eggs for a thousand listens here, and it would take six pairs of headphones and an equal number of highgrade strains of weed to track them all down. Happy hunting. "}