{"label":" David Lynch Music / ADA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14261/homepage_large.7eaeca18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"David Lynch","title":"Fox Bat Strategy: A Tribute to Dave Jaurequi","text":" When asked about his relationship to music at a recent press conference, David Lynch smiled, squinted and said, \"You're listening to music sometimes and whoa, things just come out at you.\" He paused. Then, to clarify, he offered a full minute of borderlinemeaningless sentences that did nothing to explain his relationship to music but plenty to reinforce what his movies have conveyed for 30 years: Our wildest, most intense feelings crush our ability to describe them.Music whether an original score or licensed pop song is as essential to Lynch's movies as light. Blue Velvet wouldn't be Blue Velvet without Dennis Hopper's lipsticksmeared face bearing down on Kyle MacLachlan to Roy Orbison's \"In Dreams\", or without Angelo Badalamenti's score, or without the muffled throbs that come through the speakers during closeups of fire. Eraserhead, his first featurelength, has about a page of dialogue. Without Alan Splet's nightmare of hum and clatter, most of the movie would play like unnerving surveillance footage of Jack Nance looking through his sock drawer.Fox Bat Strategy was recorded in 1994 by musicians Lynch worked with on Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me, a postseries prequel shakily premise that what \"Twin Peaks\" needed was more tit and a role for David Bowie. The musicians who contributed a couple of instrumentals and appear in the film's club scene, mysterious in cowboy hats were called back by Lynch in 1994, given some lyrics, and told to improvise. Dave Jaurequi, one of the session's guitarists and namesake of the album, sang. In 2006, he passed away and the release of Fox Bat Strategy is Lynch's tribute to him.According to Smokey Hormel, another one of the session's guitarists, Lynch's instructions were: \"It's the 50s. It's late at night and it's been raining.\" A highschool jazz band might need more guidance, but for people sensitive to Lynch's rhythm and aesthetic, the image is a siren: 1950s America is a wide circle drawn around upright Ozzie and Harriet and the glamorous nihilism of James Dean; the birth of suburbia and hellish suburban boredom; a time when teenagers were no less lusty but chaperones were more prevalent a time, in the words of Lynch, \"of innocence and pain mingling.\"The music, then, is predictable: Lowlit, hotbreathed, softfocus rock with some synthesizer touches the musical mood Lynch has explored for decades. And it's a mood that turns me so thoroughly inside out that I feel like I'm violating a colonialera law just talking about it. Warm stuff. I've heard this vein tapped elsewhere in doowop, in Bruce Springsteen's \"I'm on Fire\" and Suicide's \"Dream Baby Dream\", in Beat Happening and, most recently, music by Deerhunter and Au Revoir Simone (a band Lynch has praised in public). But nobody seems to understand it as innately and effortlessly as Lynch.But Fox Bat Strategy, despite good intentions, doesn't carry the heft of the feeling that \"Twin Peaks\" did, or Julee Cruise's Floating Into the Night (another \"TP\"related album that Lynch ostensibly \"directed\"). Jaurequi's voice is occasionally great masculine and somewhat anonymous, the idea of a rebel. And at best, Lynch can turn a cardboard cutout of a human being into a central character. (Nicolas Cage, deadpan, to Laura Dern in Wild at Heart: \"Did I ever tell you that this here jacket represents a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom?\")But sometimes and this happens throughout Fire Walk with Me the result is no more than the sum of its parts. Which, in this case, means a band dressed up as Chris Isaak for Halloween. There are parts of Fox Bat Strategy that just sound like a band dressed up as Chris Isaak for Halloween.I've always thought Lynch's movies were more like music than, say, literature or drama art that is essentially abstract. Watching Lynch's movies is usually thrilling; talking about what they \"mean\" is usually a hassle, especially when it's with people who cling to literal meaning like ticks on dogs. As far as whether or not his movies are \"weird,\" well, Transformers is weirder. Lynch's worst work isn't even that bad, it just seems that way because people like me blow a lot of hot air defending it. His best movies, though and the best moments of his musical projects drag his audience into oceans of loose association and feelings that can't quite be boiled down or sorted out. A place where, sometimes, whoa things just come out at you. "}