{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14264/homepage_large.037ccf23.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"The Most Serene Republic","title":"...And the Ever Expanding Universe","text":" Apt title. The Most Serene Republic are, as they always have been, a big band; seven members, expansive arrangements, eyes on the horizon, that sort of thing. They're effective when they sound like a small band, too when they manage to wrench as much power out of their tenderest, most threadbare moments as they are when seven people are banging the hell out of their instruments. Though they've had gossamer moments on their two LPs and 2006's fine Phages EP, what they've not yet done is make a record that strikes the right balance between their formidable skills as arrangers and instrumentalists and their penchant for penning affecting, Stars/Mates of Stateesque twilight melodrama; you know, retrofitting their little heartbreaks with just the right amount of bombast. Their latest, ...And the Ever Expanding Universe, gets grandiose in nearly all the right places; it's the singing part of the songs that could use a little beefing up.It took them long enough, but these Canadian manypiecers and Arts & Crafts signees finally hooked up with producer of mostly MSR labelmates and Canadian manypiecers Dave Newfeld for Universe. It's Newfeld, so the difference is clear; surely I can't be the first to liken his work behind the boards to bobbing up and down in mildly troubled waters on an otherwise beautiful afternoon, but whatever the description, if you've listened to much indie rock in the past five years or so, you know it well. Newfeld helps MSR suss out some of their tendencies towards overcrowding and lends the quieter moments a lovely glow, but as with most Newfeld productions, there aren't many moments where you can't hear the guy conducting; one can't help but wonder if he's instructing guitarists to strum everything in that dundunddun \"Almost Crimes\" rhythm.I mention all this not to belittle the band's role in its own record, but to reemphasize: ...And the Ever Expanding Universe is a truly gorgeous sounding album, and while that's certainly got plenty to do with Newfeld, it's no less impressive for it. Arrangements pop where before they might simply pile it on, and songs rise and fall with requisite grace. The formula of 2007's overworked Population hasn't changed significantly, it's just been, er, expanded upon; it's roughly the equivalent of seeing a movie you've grown up with on TV on a big screen for the first time, and everything's just a bit brighter and given a lot more room to walk around. I'd argue, too, that Adam Moerder's closing complaint in his review of Population was met about halfway here: melody lines do bob and weave there's plenty of diversity between the relatively straightup strumpop of \"Heavens to Purgatory\" to the synth throb of \"Don't Hold Back, Feel a Little Longer\" and lightly orchestrated \"Patternicity\" to answer that charge but when you remove the window dressing, the songs still seem a little shabby.But this is, after all, a big band, and you've got to give all those idle hands something to do. Besides, those instrumental passages are the songs as much as anything with a fuckton of flutes on a Sufjan record is. I suppose the trouble lies in the fact that the most memorable parts of Universe, just as with the band's past work, tend to be the instrumental flourishes rather than the singing a weird thing for a vocal pop record. It's a manifold problem: Adrian Jewett affects a nearbrogue when he sings so even his most assured vocal lines feel a bit swallowed, Emma Ditchburn's got kind of a wispy Isobel Campbell thing going on, which doesn't really fly in a mix this busy, and when the two double up (as they so often do), it's all those things at once.Indeed, there's a couple of impressive vocal turnarounds in opener \"Bubble Reputation\" and \"Heavens to Purgatory\"; bless their hearts for singing \"gadzooks gadzooks gadzooks!\" on that one with reasonably straight faces. But even the most straightahead track here, the slightly Jock Jammy \"Don't Hold Back, Feel a Little Longer\" is more compelling in its clatter than its crooning. Structurally and, gadzooks aside, lyrically, the nonorchestrated are fine; it's just that a sound this expansive needs more swagger behind the mic, lest the tunes get lost in the fray yet again. At least this time out, losing yourself in the fray's not a bad way to go. "}