{"label":" Radium","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14275/homepage_large.e017894d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Jon Mueller","title":"Physical Changes","text":" In September, the label Jagjaguwar will release Unmap, the debut of Volcano Choir, a new experimental project featuring Bon Iver aka Justin Vernon. Aside from Vernon's sympathetic falsetto, his potpourri approach to lyrics, and the vocal take from his previously released Vocoder curio \"Woods\", Volcano Choir shares little with its more famous brethren. An impressionistic affair gilded by occasional crescendos, Unmap trades rock and folk linearity for guitar notes that refract, bend, and sustain; drums that prowl, circle, and march; and a panoply of unfamiliar sounds that ping, swirl, and float. On \"Still\", a fullband update of \"Woods\", all of those elements Vernon's voice, the band's luminous matrix of tones and drums coalesce into seven incredible minutes. The wintry chill of Vernon's solo take becomes a slow, icy burn here, the sting fastidiously increased by drums that spread patiently through the mix until, by climax, your chest feels like it is the kick drum.The locomotive beneath \"Still\" is Jon Mueller, a fringe percussionist and improviser living in Milwaukee. He's long stood just at the edge of indie notoriety, formerly with Polyvinyl jazz benders Pele and now with Collections of Colonies of Bees, the oftenbrilliant quintet that's the other piece of the Volcano Choir chimera. Apart from those acts, Mueller has cultivated a sprawling discography of outsider collaborations with people like resonance expert Z'EV and environmental audio plunderer Jeph Jerman. With his bands, Mueller's drumming emphasizes power and precision. Those collaborations, though, often exploit texture, building rich sprawls of sound from unlikely tones.On last year's Metals and this year's Physical Changes, Mueller's first and second eponymous albums for Table of the Elements' Radium imprint, the twain meet in longform pieces that combine the explosiveness of his timekeeping and the expansiveness of his soundmaking. Metals' two tracks wound wires of noise around heavymetal marathons, blurring each bludgeon until they became one bulk sound. Physical Changes goes further, surrounding Mueller's drums with the varied dins of collaborators the guitar of Khanate's James Plotkin, the cello of Lightbox Orchestra leader Fred LonbergHolm, the synthesizer of Collections of Colonies of Bees bandmate Jim Schoenecker that threaten to rip whatever rhythm arises apart. Two hours of these escalating, dense pieces are split over five tracks on a DVD, CD, and LP. A gauntlet of focus and endurance, then, Physical Changes teases the divides between beats and bedlam, composition and improvisation, insanity and intensity. By set's end, it establishes Mueller as an audacious ringleader for new music.The title of this collection and of the tracks therein \"Things Will Not Stay the Way They Are\" and \"Change Is the Only Evidence of Life\", to cite two serve as a sort of convenient credo for Mueller's music. Superficially, these five pieces can be quickly categorized as drones, in that they find a sonic space and pursue it doggedly. But as with many Table of the Elements artists, stopping there would be at the expense of the nuance and dynamics these tracks offer. As the titles hint, they're always shifting, even if slightly, letting sounds rise and fade, blend and break. \"Nothing Changes\", the first track of the set's CD and the real masterpiece, stretches a bell tone until it's long and thin. The track swells for 10 minutes as an arco cello sends shocks of dissonance through the music. Mueller rips into a drum roll that he releases about 25 minutes later, or as the track expires. But the sounds surrounding the drums shift constantly, changing the way Mueller's static beat fits into the frame. Sometimes, it's a background wash. Other times, it's at the front, lashing at open air.Similarly, \"The Only Constant Thing is Change\" sounds like a rock band bursting from the inside of a cauldron in waves of chaos and silence. Electric tumult splits Mueller's rhythm at the side, and no sound sticks around too long. That's the point emphasized by \"Survival Is Not Mandatory\", an accompanying 36minute collaboration with video artist David Dinnell. Dinnell blurs familiar images trees in the wind, a deer drinking in a brook, a still lake until they look like lunar landscapes. He shifts from one scene to the next, alternately overexposing and underexposing his film so that nothing dominates a frame too long. Mueller's sound achieves the same effect, bits and pieces slipping in and out of a composite roar so that, even after 30 minutes, the music seems still very nebulous.It feels condescending to suggest that Physical Changes won't readily appeal to fans of Bon Iver or Volcano Choir. Strangely, it feels vaguely incorrect, too: Though Mueller's music is often chaotic and distorted (perhaps to the point of being indiscernible from one moment to the next), it is the product of singular vision and steadfast will. Its focus transcends mere sound, so for those who seek no apology in their music there's the potential for broader appeal. What's more, Mueller pulls a few collaborators and, to an extent, his audience into the tide of his own ideas. In this way, Physical Changes is not altogether unlike a James Blackshaw record, where friends help the young English guitarist lift his mesmerizing guitar takes into bigger, better songs.But let's not downplay Physical Changes' visceral roar too much: It's an impolite, unflinching record, loudly making its case as one of the year's boldest statements. "}