{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14276/homepage_large.d6f641f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Clark","title":"Totems Flame","text":" Think about the basic properties of beatoriented electronic music. It emphasizes dynamic action, feelings of speed, impressions of light extremes and intricacies of sensation. It tweaks your senses with creative deformations of time and space, with strictly engineered frameworks lurking beneath sleek or gaudy facades. And as Simon Reynolds credibly argued in Energy Flash/Generation Ecstasy, it strives to create experiences instead of describing them. Doesn't it sound a lot like the state fair, and make it seem crazy that tinny speakers still blast mostly rock, rap, and country hits across the rides? Imagine Lindstrøm's slopes and plunges on your roller coaster; the Field's nested spins on the TiltAWhirl.In an obscure corner of the midway, Chris Clark mans the funhouse. He lays out certain conditions dark twisty passageways, treacherous stairs, and moving platforms but doesn't suggest that you experience them in any particular way. His songs are divided into bizarre chambers of clashing design. He's the rare case where a heavyhandedly metaphorical approach like this seems defensible. In interviews, Clark holds forth at length on process and ideas while neatly sidestepping taxonomical points. He has his goto tricks: His specialty is the cataclysmic anthem, cobbled together from homemade break beats, glitchy jags of Euro and acidhouse, pockets of concussive noise, honeycombed synth lines, and contoured masses of distortion, all piled up in lunging heaps of coarse texture. He really doesn't seem to make any type of music, which means that there's no background proposition or guideline, and metaphor might be the only way to talk about it. As in the funhouse, you have to make your own way through.We enter an unspoken contract with the funhouse: To be tripped, mocked, and have our skirts looked up in a spirit of goodnatured mischief. It's the same with Clark, and at his best, he honors it. His greatest record, 2006's exquisitely convulsed Body Riddle, was full of spaces as deeply habitable as they were impossible. It was an alchemist's album violent where it naturally should have been tranquil (and viceversa); corporeal where it should have been cerebral (ditto). The acid squelches of \"Herzog\" were weirdly serene and grounding, their ambient atmosphere charged with livewire menace. It was, unquestionably, his most humane album. But the same body Clark celebrated in 2006 was trampled under the wartank treads of last year's Turning Dragon, a fascinating but dyspeptic album that it's difficult to imagine anyone wanting to listen to very often.As on Turning Dragon, Clark's tricks are all in place on Totems Flare, but the abstracts that made Body Riddle great are spottily present. It lacks a certain tenderness or reticence, and there's no implication of a compact with the listener, an assurance that this inhospitable space is ultimately for their pleasure. Put it this way: You would probably decline to ride a roller coaster designed by the Clark of this album, not trusting that its promise of danger wouldn't be taken to its logical conclusion, the car separating from the tracks. Totems Flare regains a measure of hospitality from its predecessor, but it brings only one new idea to the table Clark's singing, which is only partially effective. It works pretty well when he pitches his deep, roughshod voice toward dilapidated grandeur: \"Growls Garden\" imagines Matthew Dear's Asa Breed as interpreted by Thomas Brinkmann. But his cyberTeutonic turn on \"Rainbow Voodoo\" is a bit silly.Clark's voice works best when he uses it like just another sound source; say, as a stuttering, FXladen pulse in \"Look Into the Heart Now\". Your attention is drawn to details like this because the compositions often feel underimagined as songs. The aforementioned tracks make the first half of the album feel jumbled and cluttered. The fizzy syncopation of opener \"Outside Plume\" is enticing, but its lumbering synths and beatdropping tangents thwart its momentum. Things do start coming together after the utilitarian vamp \"Luxman Furs\": \"Totem Crackerjack\" uses gusts of noise to enhance, not derail, its cadence, and has a confidently measured stride that carries it intelligibly from breakneck drums to delicate arpeggios. The home stretch has a satisfying continuity the revvedup but beatific \"Future Daniel\" runs into the rewinding ambiance of \"Primary Balloon Landing\"; the dark drive of \"Talis\" and \"Suns of Temper\" dissolves into the gentle guitar whorls of closer \"Absence\". That's how funhouses are supposed to work we know the chaos is an illusion, designed for our enjoyment by an orderly hand. Otherwise, they're just confusing and enervating. "}