{"label":" Poker Flat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14274/homepage_large.d1312ca3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Steve Bug","title":"Collaboratory","text":" I once ran into Steve Bug trying on a pair of jeans in Berlin; I had to leave the shop immediately for fear of turning into a gushing fanboy. Bug can have that effect. The night before I'd seen him play for several hours, and whether it was due to his sharp fashion sense or his endearing little dance moves behind the decks or his knack for choosing deep tunes that slowly become thoroughly gripping, he seemed awfully charismatic. His own productions adopt a different pose: in the last decade or so he's managed only a handful of anthems (chiefly his late1990s classic \"Loverboy\"), while putting out a lot of material that seems almost defiantly anonymous. This is partly because a fair amount of it is goodnotgreat, but even the bona fide masterpieces can slide right past you if you're not paying attention. 2005's \"Bugs in Your Brain\" is my favorite Bug moment: A deceptively fragile, airy piece of minimal house that at first seems to act only as a pretty bridge between tracks in a mix, it reveals its enormous charm through repeat playing, and the accompanying recognition that each beat and each synth chord have been placed just so to achieve an overwhelming sense of rightness.\"Fit\", rather than weirdness or populism or futurism, forms Bug's stockintrade. His productions invite the sort of praise you might bestow on welldesigned furniture: sleek, comfortable, without visible flaw. But these traits are as elusive and enigmatic as they are unobtrusive. The difference between a good Bug production and a brilliant one is difficult to articulate, and often just comes down to context in the hands of a talented DJ a track can easily move from the first category to the second. Which makes Bug's own albums seem slightly illconceived from the start; his tracks are not designed to be heard in full, one after the other. It's not that this music is difficult or impenetrable; if anything, Bug's classicist fusion of deep house grooves, reflective postDetroit synthesizer melodies, and slight electro affectations (all wrapped in clean, hyperdetailed Euro minimal sound design) will be pleasurably familiar to anyone who has paid the slightest attention to German dance music of the past decade. But this itself is the problem: Bug's work never shocks, and his own consistency works against him. Collaboratory is the equal of previous albums The Other Day and Sensual, but this equality also verges on exchangeability.As its title suggests, Collaboratory focuses on collaborations with other producers, but you'd be forgiven for not noticing, as the sound of the album is overwhelmingly consistent. There's much to love here. Opener \"Trees Can't Dance\" is the sort of echostrewn, melancholy Detroit homage that any producer would kill to call to their own, its roaming, mutating synthesizer line confirming that while Bug is proudly functionalist he's never rigidly geometric. On the unnerving \"Month of Sip\" (in collaboration with the Martini Bros' DJ Cle), portentous chords and drooping, decaying synth tones slowly transform into a morose gesture towards peaktime energy, like Âme on strong downers. \"Still Music\", with Donnacha Costello, is dreamy acid house whose seven minutes of radical uneventfulness would still be captivating if it were stretched out to 20. Meanwhile, for the romantic, mysterious vocal house of \"Trust in Me\" and \"Like It Should Be\", Bug concocts delectable, evocatively humid grooves all glowering bass and intricate, delicate snare patterns.In fact pretty much every track here is filled with eartickling sounds and uniformly sensitive production. Still, imagine how much more startling these qualities would be if they were marshaled in the service of mindbending, unpredictable grooves, or gigantic dancefloorslaying hooks, or simply unforgettable melodies. Bug avoids these \"easy\" options in order to focus listeners' attentions on the carefully thoughtout physicality of his work; I sympathize, but despite its superlative craft Collaboratory still seems at times like a missed opportunity. For music that's so easy to like, falling in love with this stuff can feel like surprisingly hard work. "}