{"label":" Hidden Agenda","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14282/homepage_large.35721862.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Solarski","artist":"The Horse's Ha","title":"Of the Cathmawr Yards","text":" Jim Elkington and Janet Beveridge Bean have each made an adopted home of Chicago, and each has done time with the Windy City's venerable Thrill Jockey Records (Elkington with his Zincs, Bean with Freakwater, Eleventh Dream Day, and her Concertina Wireabetted solo material), so we shouldn't be too surprised that they've paired for a project, nor that the Horse's Ha generally sounds like a jazzinflected marriage of Freakwater's lonesome altcountry and the Zincs' skewed English folk stylings. What's more surprising is how mixed the results collected on debut offering Of the Cathmawr Yards recorded in large part by Icy Demons' Griffin \"Blue Hawaii\" Rodriguez can sometimes be. When Elkington, Bean, and their three Chicago hired guns (cellist Fred LonbergHolm, bassist Nick Macri, and drummer Charles Rumback) are on, they're on, and when they're not, well, it can get cloying.With its lively rhythm section, lush stringplaying, and exquisite pacing, \"Asleep in a Waterfall\" falls squarely in the former camp; a summation of the band's strengths and a harbinger of the good things to come on the record's second half. Notably, Bean gets the lead vocal here, with chief lyricist Elkington joining her in harmony for the choruses (more often on Cathmawr Yards it's the other way around). As anyone who has listened to the Zincs can attest, Elkington's lyrics can tend toward the weighty, and letting Bean's lithe voice sing them is one way to counteract this. After slumping for a couple of tracks, Yards picks up again with instrumental \"Liberation\", which sounds like Tortoise traded the cocktail lounge for the front porch and went acoustic. \"The Piss Choir\" keeps the momentum going as the band loosens up, lights up, and jams out, culminating in a delirious dance between Elkington's guitar and LonbergHolm's strings. Vocal interplay takes a more interesting turn here as well, with Bean first echoing Elkington's lines, then joining him, both singers sumptuously stretching their syllables. It's pretty smooth sailing from there, right on through the slightly spooky clipclop of \"Rising Moon\" (the only Bean composition on the record) and barnstorming finale \"Map of Stars\", where noted improvisor Fred LonbergHolm gets a chance to just let it rip on the cello. Suddenly a record with a mostly inauspicious start has gone out with a bang that won't soon be forgotten.Catamawr Yards, then, gets better as it gets more adventurous, and it gets more adventurous as it leans more on that backing band. When that's not the case, things can drag, as on \"Wilds Empty Bedroom\". Subsequent track \"Left Hand\" falls into the same plodding tempo trap, salvaged only by Rumback's percussion touch and a guest jazz trumpet bit courtesy of Calexico's Martin Wenk. Indeed, the drumming on this record deserves special mention, and hats should be tipped both to Rumback and Rodriguez for creating and capturing a dynamic percussive sound that goes a long way to distinguish Cathmawr Yards from any number of whiskysoaked, overimaginative acoustic records out there. Instead, the Horse's Ha's postfolk feels right at home amid the legacy of Chicago sonics as innovative as they are pleasing to the ear. "}