{"label":" BBE","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14281/homepage_large.edb849c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Pépé Bradock","title":"Confiote de Bits: A Remix Collection","text":" Pépé Bradock's Confiote de Bits, a 2xCD collection of the French house musician's remixes from the past decade, couldn't have come at a better time. Deep house is in vogue everywhere from American indie dance, where DFA acts routinely invoke Chicago and New York's house originators, to European clubs, where moody chords and jacking grooves have dethroned minimal techno. Bradock, meanwhile, remains sorely underrecognized and underrated, despite his roots within the same scene that gave the world Daft Punk and Cassius. It's a pleasure and a public service to finally have the bulk of his remixes, most of them vinylonly and long out of print, collected in one place. More importantly, the album confirms Bradock as one of house music's most inspired and most uncompromising producers.This is, after all, the artist responsible for \"Rhapsody in Pain\", a 2007 track pairing a bouncy, lighthearted melody with a gruesome chorus of shrieks and moans. Rarely has feelgood dance music been quite so unsettling. But rarely are his productions are so confrontational, either. In fact, with his predilection for laidback tempos, aquamarine chords, disco detailing, and fullthroated vocals, Bradock's music puts a premium on pleasure but there's almost always something slightly \"off\" about his work.Just listen to his 2002 remix of Iz & Diz's \"Mouth\", which opens the collection. Bradock sticks with the original song's principal conceit, using hiccupping vocal samples (and nothing else) to mimic house music's machine cadences; atop that base, he lays down an airy cushion of barbershop harmonies and sampled scat singing. There's even a kazoo solo, or something like one. But where a lesser artist would have stopped at the clever sound design, Bradock puts it all in service of something ambitiously musical, with unusually voiced chords and odd twists and turns suggesting both the manic whimsy of Raymond Scott and the angelic bent of Grizzly Bear.Bradock is a genius arranger. His 2008 remix of International Pony's \"Bubble in the Bottle\" should be required listening for a generation of producers across house, minimal, disco and electro who think that it's enough to juggle a handful of loops for eight minutes, and call it a track. The \"Happy Zumbi\" remix of \"Bubble\" is minimalistic filter disco at heart, just a lone set of chords and a cacophonous percussion pattern. (Aside from a brief, treated snippet of Snax and Khan's vocals, it bears almost no relation to the original song.) But across just under seven minutes, he puts the thing through its paces, sculpting broad hills and dells out of the filters and levels, and sending squealing oscillators and ramshackle percussive fills flying overhead like unkempt crows. Every element is always in motion rising, falling, morphing, turning inside out but it never feels busy, and never distracts from the track's graceful arc.However he's picked his commissions, Bradock has kept curious company. Icons like Cesaria Evora and Roy Ayers share space here with names like Incognito, Zero 7, Chateau Flight, and Pete Namlook, drawing a map of 1990s/00s electronic music that runs from world fusion to deep house to middlebrow downtempo. Judging by the tracklisting, it looks schizo at best and mercenary at worst. But for all the disparity of the source material and the range of sounds, ideas, and moods achieved in the remixes, the reworks all point to a unifying aesthetic.How to describe it? The phrase \"deep burnt\" also, incidentally, the title of a 1999 Bradock tune might suffice. Jazzy augmented chords and skipping grooves are torn straight from the deep house textbook, but there's something deliciously charred about it all. Drum samples and synthesizers swim in a fizz of distortion. Voices double and dub into a fog of echo. Melodies aren't so much played as splashed on in broad, energetic strokes; samples are daubed atop one another in haphazard, slapdash fashion. Both his textures and his collage sensibility recall Robert Rauschenberg. Everywhere you listen, odd sonics clump like sand in drying paint, while errant electronic noises go careening beyond the limits of the canvas and the frame.If Bradock is less well known than, say, DJ Koze, another musician who has used remixes as a springboard for his own idiosyncratic style, that's at least partly Bradock's doing. He has never hidden behind a scrim of anonymity, but he's never exactly courted attention, either. His remixes far outnumber his original productions, the bulk of which have appeared only on his own, vinylonly label, Atavisme. And despite the high profile of his commissions, I daresay that the cavalier weirdness of his approach hasn't inspired many average Zero 7 fans to delve further into his catalog. But Confiote de Bits shows the remixes to be far more than merely a footnote to Bradock's recording career. Almost two hours long, the collection still holds together as coherently as many artist albums, testifying to the strength of Bradock's voice and vision over the past decade and more. These tracks are so full of spirit and ideas that, taken together, Confiote de Bits is practically an embarrassment of riches though the only ones blushing should be the musicians who have taken \"deep house\" as a model simply to be remade in its own image, over and over. In Bradock's house, the doors and windows are thrown wide open, with gusts of wind left to remodel at their leisure. "}