{"label":" V2 / Shangri-La Music","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14295/homepage_large.6594ca9c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Amazing Baby","title":"Rewild","text":" Coming straight out of Wesleyan to score a ton of SXSW buzz, broing down with MGMT, getting breathless futureofthescene press from Interview and Rolling Stone and The Guardian, strutting around in 1971 cosplay while rolling their eyes at journalists who try to connect their hippie chic with actual usage of psychotropic substances there are plenty of reasons for skeptics to violently reject Amazing Baby. Granted, they're not particularly useful reasons, what with them having more to do with scenester anxiety and cred wars than anything, but they're floating around right now and muddling up the discourse. Fortunately, they have an album out now, which means that extrapolating judgments from little more than a 7\", an EP, and the dreaded Williamsburg address is no longer necessary.And here's a shock: Rewild isn't brought down by irony or posing or whatever it is about trust funds and/or beards that's supposed to make music shitty it's just a really scattershot debut, albeit a frequently entertaining one. Amazing Baby seem to be at the point in their young career where they're a short distance away from transitioning out of the traditional \"riffing off bands we like\" phase, and while there's a healthy eclecticism to their nebulous classic rock affectations, they do a better job at creating interesting variations of known quantities than transcending them. Opener \"Bayonets\" features a more muscular take on ELO's baroque, stringdriven progpop, \"Invisible Palace\" towers like Pink Floyd's \"Astronomy Domine\" reproduced in neon and buffed to a metalflake shine, \"The Narwhal\" is an ampedup, bongodriven echo of Led Zeppelin's \"The Battle of Evermore\", and \"Dead Light\" and \"Headdress\" are perforated with glimmering shards of T. Rex. Still, it's a sign of hope that their stuff's hooky enough to transcend their semiobvious source material, and combining early70s rock histrionics with glossy postelectro partyrock wildness is a promising formula.But to get past the decentpastiche stage, they still need a little work in the identity department. Frontman Will Roan has a voice that can't stick to a single memorable template, so he shades towards Marc Bolan astral swagger one moment and Donovan pastoralism the next. The single most consistent thing about his voice is how dazed and mumbly it sounds, which is either an asset or a detriment depending on how far towards dopehaze swooning any given song skews; he sounds effortlessly majestic in the gauzy slog of \"Pump Yr Brakes\" but smothered and lagging beneath the energetic uptempo charge of \"Kankra\". Simon O'Connor, guitarist and the other half of the band's core founding duo, has a broader problem: he drowns his instrument in so much arenasized production glop it can be hard to tell what he's got going on stylistically beneath it all, though when he breaks out like he does in the squalling solos during \"Smoke Bros\" or \"Pump Yr Brakes\" it's a pretty good jolt. (And since he played in Stylofone, who put out the great Thin Lizzytoned rifffest single \"Nighttime\" two and a half years ago, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt.) This wallofgunk approach extends across the rest of the band, to the point where there's not a lot of breathing space; compare their Daytrotter sessions or the version of \"Headdress\" from their Infinite Fucking Cross EP to the overproduced rerecordings here and you'll hear what a subtler mix could do for these guys.That lack of breathing space, combined with Roan's mumblyJoe tendencies, does obscure the hell out of the lyrics, which is a mixed blessing; Roan admitted to Rolling Stone that \"our lyrics are totally ridiculous sometimes,\" and it is at least to his credit he recognizes this. I'm not sure if that makes it more or less difficult to forgive \"Bayonets\" for using the phrase \"the kids are all right\" as part of its chorus, or \"Smoke Bros\" for its baffling refrain, \"We are starving cannibals/ She protects her animals.\" I suppose when your closest lyrical analogue on the album's most memorable singalong/chantalong line is Total Coelo, you risk alienating some people. But that's the kind of turf that can come with the feelingout process, and there's enough lyrics that aren't goofy, uninspiring, or just plain illegible to make up for the ones that are. Unfortunately, the postWeb 2.0 hype cycle doesn't have time for growing pains; their reactionary approach tends to be enthusiastic first, then disappointed. Speaking as someone who would prefer to see the opposite happen letting bands dick around and get mediocrity out of their system before hitting on the inspiration that makes them worth following Rewild is how an average debut album should pan out. It might outstrip its ambition and wear its influences too blatantly, but Amazing Baby could be something special once it all clicks. "}