{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14319/homepage_large.b4976128.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"The Mars Volta","title":"Octahedron","text":" Look, here's the deal: If you don't know what you're getting into with a new Mars Volta record at this point, after seven years and five albums (plus one EP and a live thing or two), then my advice is to go directly to fulllength numero uno, 2003's DeLoused in the Comatorium. Sample its rhythmiccentric, postemo artrock, and decide if you need to continue through the band's catalog. It only gets less userfriendly from there.Because (speaking to the firsttime listeners) \"rhythmcentric\" here doesn't mean anything remotely funky. It means the frantic, percussionheavy, multipletemposhiftspersong brand of complexity inaugurated by batshit 70sera theatrical hard rock. Also, the band's allegiance to jazzfusion titans, ones not averse to fuzz and a lowend, means things get far...looser from album number two onward. Arenagrade heavy metal thunder abruptly melts into a groovily aimless journey for congas and electric organ. Repeatedly. Immodestly virtuosic and never afraid to run with a jam, the Mars Volta's ability to alienate newcomers is welldocumented. Which means this review is probably for those not already or instantly, after their first listen alienated.Is Octahedron the band's best album? No, but if you dig on MV's unrepentantly \"big\" and meandering suitedriven conceptalbum thing, you won't necessarily be disappointed. And with songs that only once stray past the eightminute mark, it's the most accessible MV album since the first. Slower, with fewer breakdowns or outofnowhere segues into a wholly new song, it's kind of a Cliffs Notes of everything the band does well, ditching much of the attentionstraining stuff. For instance, the hallucinogenfriendly stretches, where glassily effected guitars ping and peal at lavalamp tempo, have been pruned. (Okay, with a few exceptions.) Even the longest songs stick to something like a coherent mood and linear structure.Sometimes they even straightup rock. \"Cotopaxi\" is perhaps the tersest, most jagged song Omar RodriguezLópez and Cedric BixlerZavala have cut since At the DriveIn imploded, a boogie riff nodding to their Texan origins, violently cut up and reassembled with virtuoso care. \"Desperate Graves\" actually builds, rather than dropping a big loud bomb after a placid bit of introductory strumming, and comes with the closest thing the band's written to an instantly memorable chorus in quite a while. Even the breakdown is short and to the point.This being the Mars Volta, however, it wouldn't do for the album to be entirely curveballfree. For instance, Autechrestyle electronic hisses and bristling beats bubble up in the latter half off \"Copernicus\", mostly without getting all showoffy about it. There's also the general slow and steady downtempo or plain downer feel to many of the songs. For a band so often pilloried for being too agitated to ride out a good riff, it's probably the closest the Mars Volta will ever come to a cop for the slow jam kids. And it's hard to deny that, depending on your taste for jamming, if you've ever dug on acidspitting wanksolos over endless, thunderous drum rolls, the final minutes of album closer \"Luciforms\" is pretty much the shit from a shameless climax standpoint.As for BixlerZavala's lyrics, well, sure, they still often verge on the eyerolling if you're not going to meet him halfway. I'm not going to pretend that a line like, \"My devil makes me dream/ Like no other mortal dreams\" comes off to me as anything but camp/kitsch. And \"don't stop dragging the lake\" (from \"Cotopaxi\") isn't really an earworm as far as hooks go. Now I don't mean to dismiss the words' possible import. It's been clear from album one that the lyrics have a deep resonance for the band, and are meant as clues for the kind of fanbase who enjoys treating records as narratives with big gaps waiting to be filled with a little online research/interview legwork/guesswork. While I'm so not that guy, I will just say the melodramarich, scrambled poetrynotebook puzzle pieces do \"work\" in the context of the album's overall sound. So does the horror flick sound of BixlerZavala's vocals. When his fulltilt shriek joins the band at a moment of total commotion, you can imagine the planetariumscale mock grandeur of it all.The Mars Volta feeds some very specific needs in its fanbase. There's a certain kind of listener that, maybe once a year or maybe every day, wants music that sates the same impulse that makes people gorge on spectaclescale cinema or devour the entire Dune series in a few weeks. The Mars Volta's specific brand of bombast may remain an untranslatable language for those rooted in a DIYscaled world, or committed to the shiny threeminutesandchange tidiness of the charts. But if you're fiending for the musical equivalent of an epic, partially incoherent battle between good and evil in IMAX 3D, you could do a lot worse. "}