{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14285/homepage_large.809e56d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Damian Lazarus","title":"Smoke the Monster Out","text":" This year marks the 10year anniversary of Position Normal's excellent debut album of found sound sampletapestries, Stop Your Nonsense. You may not have celebrated, but I'm betting Damian Lazarus did. Lazarus has seen fit to shoehorn Position Normal tracks into his compilations on two occasions once in 2000, and again in 2006 and the littleknown act's influence is all over his own debut album, Smoke the Monster Out.When not stanning for Position Normal, the UK DJ and producer has spent the past 10 years setting himself up as a kind of bellwether for middlebrow trends in house and techno: He coran early electroclash label City Rockers, before jumping off at the exact right moment to form his own platform Crosstown Rebels. Like many dance labels in the middle of the decade, the latter imprint smoothly charted the successive rises and falls of electrohouse and then minimal as the cluedin European clubber's soundtrack of choice, and Lazarus' Rebel Futurism Session Two mix from 2005 is one of the absolute best snapshots from the center of these stylistic drifts.How to reconcile a penchant for idiosyncratic, functionless sample collages with a career based on giving the crowd what it wants? At some point Lazarus must have realized that, if you drew a line between these two impulses, in the middle you'd find those \"soundtracks to imaginary films\" that dance producers and rockers both intermittently turn to when they feel like alienating their audiences. So what's remarkable about Smoke the Monster Out is how it pursues this strategy while also sounding inviting and gregarious at every turn. In this, and in the album's clean lines and uncluttered rhythms, Lazarus follows the example of Booka Shade, who have comprehensively staked out this minimalassoundtrack territory, for better (their first two fulllengths, their DJKicks mix) or worse (their tepid last album).Still, Lazarus' impatient, rifling pose feels kind of unique, most ostentatiously on \"Moment\", which flits from forlornsounding British nursery rhyming to a smooth Björkalike chanteuse to clipped spoken word to warped baritone mewling, while the music slips from winsome tinkles through steady house pulses, on to clattering percussion, and then eerie strings and horn sections. He knows how to make the transitions subtle, but still, that's a lot of ground to cover. If the ideaspertrack count is slightly lower elsewhere, this is only relative: \"Come & Play\" curiously combines a gorgeous, nervous but torpid house groove with more ethereal vocals and selfconscious samples from Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds' \"Red Right Hand\" (\"with your red hand, come and play,\" the singer acknowledges in some cryptic allusion to copyright). \"Neverending\" is cheerful, fidgety anthemic vocal house whose marvelously fuzzedout clomp almost makes up for its laconic, semiAutoTuned indie vocals. Closing track \"After Rave Delight\", all haunting chimes and honeyed vocoder choruses, veers between moving and repellant.But the inviting median position Lazarus occupies hinders as much as helps his cause, as this music seems never quite to satisfy completely any of the goals it sets itself. Only on the 45second \"King of Fools\" does Lazarus let his sampladelic tendencies run free, with a garbled TV jingle for monster children that's straight Position Normal. Perhaps more surprisingly, there's not a single moment here that feels like it would really blow up a dancefloor, the producer's understanding of groove left underutilized. If this music were darker and more difficult, it might attract a cult following, but I suspect the very audience Lazarus most desperately wants to cultivate will find his halfwayhouse constructions too obvious in their reliance on melodious emotionalism. This is a shame, but I hope it also acts as a goad: Lazarus owes it to himself and to us find even better ways to make his divergent impulses run together somehow. "}