{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14310/homepage_large.7e98084d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Mungolian Jet Set","title":"We Gave It All Away, Now We Are Taking It Back","text":" For the past three years, Mungolian Jet Set haven't just been the Balearic disco remixers of the moment, but also consummate performers and storytellers, knowing how to manipulate their audience with an artful slowreveal of their considerable talents. For a particularly startling run throughout 2007, it seemed like this odd Norwegian duo transformed themselves entirely with each new remix, offering overblown Italodisco, or beatbox and accordiondriven electrogypsyfunk, or dark Jon Hassellstyle percussive digital jazz. If they haven't quite been able to sustain this knack for total selfreinvention since, nonetheless the past year and a half has seen Pål Nyhus and Knut Sævik continue to cram together just about every sound that can fit in with a slowmo four by four beat, and a fair few that can't.You'd expect such a maximalist approach to get messy at times, and there are several points on the duo's gargantuan 2xCD remix compilation We Gave It All Away, Now We Are Taking It Back when it does just that, but Mungolian Jet Set nonetheless give the impression of knowing precisely what they are doing. Starting life as a modern jazz group but openly acknowledging the Orb as their current heroes, they balance the controlled chaos of Miles Davis' Bitches Brew with the roaming and ruminative repetition of The Orb's Adventures Beyond the Ultraworld. The duo's debt to the latter record was already a clear and perhaps solitary thread of consistency throughout the group's work to date, both in sound design and feel, shortcircuiting the exotic, the mysterious, and the unashamedly cheesy. Structuring their remix collection usually a utilitarian or at best \"moodsetting\" exercise as a kind of safari tour at the end of the universe makes the resemblance alltooobvious, and yet it was the very best thing the duo could have done. With its acres of excess and ceaseless transformations, We Gave It All Away rams home even to the trained listener the essential alienness of this music.If Mungolian Jet Set's only tricks were their polystylistic perversity, their legions of goblin singers and their canny allusions to a million pop reference points (see their stopstart take on Bob Marley's \"Could You Be Loved\"), the attraction would quickly pall. Like all maximalists worth a damn, they have the producer's ears and attention to detail of minimalists. They can \"do\" deepness, as revealed on the spacious, acidflecked techhouse of their own \"Madre (Epics Part 2)\", but even at their most overblown, their rhythms share all the hyperrhythmic succulence of the most pointillist techno. And as with all maximalist musicians certainly the Orb before them the future danger for Mungolian Jet Set is that they come to seem like parodies of themselves, still charting celestial bodies but for no particular purpose or goal. Perhaps this set's weakest moment is the stillfine remix of the Shortwave Set's \"Glitches 'N' Bugs\". It's the one moment where they sound content not to challenge themselves, but rather to remain in the subservient position of skillful interior decorators for another artist's vision. It also channels rather too straightforwardly Andrew Weatherall circa 1992.Let's hope it's a momentary lapse, because Mungolian Jet Set are far too good for this fate. Just listen to their take on Ronny & Renzo's \"Big Smack & Flies\": a rolling and roiling masterpiece of tribal percussion and cavernous dub bass. Perhaps the duo's most solemn effort to date, it astounds with its moist density, the layers of drums showering droplets of iridescent sweat as they slap against one another. Here and elsewhere (see their marvelously trancey new remix of Lulu Rouge's \"Melankoli\", too late to make it on here) the groove seems to spiral inwards as well as outwards, plumbing ever greater depths of intertwining, sensuous complexity. For all Mungolian Jet Set's comic allusions, their elaborate costumes and tonguetwisting remix titles, it's here at the very core of things that their singular magic is at its most powerful. "}