{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14311/homepage_large.c0fe06f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Woodstock 40 Years On: Back to Yasgur's Farm","text":" The forgotten secret of Woodstock is that it kind of sucked. Culturally, of course, it was a beautiful thing half a million kids found each other and everything was groovy. The audience was a generation with high ideals, crazy dreams, unreliable drugs, and an inexplicable fondness for Crosby, Stills & Nash, and it finally had something to pull it together that didn't involve all that many things being set on fire. The portapotties were overflowing by Friday night, and the flower people left tons of garbage rotting all over Max Yasgur's farm, but it's generally remembered as a positive social experience by people who claim they were there.The music, on the other hand, didn't entirely live up to the event's rep, and there's been a certain diminishingreturns effect from the recordings that have been released. The first Woodstock album was a 1970 triplealbum that cherrypicked the festival's musical highlights 18 acts, give or take, most of them limited to a track apiece. (Crosby, Stills & Nash, with and without Young, got three.) Then there was a double LP a year later, with some secondtier performances and three more CSNY songs. The 25th anniversary 4xCD box set had all the music from those records, plus some other stuff, minus the iconic betweensong announcements (\"the brown acid that is circulating around us is not, specifically, too good\").Now we've got this sixdisc monster, with a bit under half of the music that was played the weekend of August 15, 1969, plus a healthy sampling of stage patter. (The unabridged version will, one assumes, come out on subcutaneous nanotech in the year 2024, by which time most of the festival's attendees will be well into their seventies.) It's newly mixed from the original, unsweetened master tapes, with miraculous clarity, so ha ha on you, Neil Young, Ravi Shankar and Mountain no taking a mulligan on performances you were unhappy with for this edition! And it's got at least a song or two from almost every act that played the festival. The missing ones are the negligible Keef Hartley Band, Ten Years After who were actually on the original tripleLP and the Band, who were apparently bummed out that everyone just wanted Bob Dylan to show up on stage with them. (They reportedly played his \"I Shall Be Released\", as did Joan Baez and Joe Cocker, although none of those versions show up here.)There are a handful of deserving excavations on the box. Country Joe & the Fish get to demonstrate that there's more to their groovegarage than the two minutes of \"Rock & Soul Music\" that made the movie soundtrack (although maybe not the half an hour more's worth they get here), and it's nice to hear Bert Sommer's elegant, pastoral meditations and the Incredible String Band's peopleoftheforest folk. There are also some lessthan deserving exhumations, like Sweetwater, who get a pair of warbly numbers with flute solos that are not, specifically, too good, and Quill, Bostonian Zappaphiles who went on first on Saturday and promptly sank back into obscurity. Jimi Hendrix's closing set was preceded by Sha Na Na, whose squeakyclean 50s nostalgia might have seemed like it provided some kind of connection to rock's roots; that's probably the kindest possible spin on it. The low point of Back to Yasgur's Farm is its third disc: Canned Heat jammin' (with an apostrophe) on a boogie that seems much longer than its actual halfhour, the Grateful Dead's dud of a \"Dark Star\", and Creedence Clearwater Revival brusquely replicating their studio recordings' ragged intonation.Still, some bands managed to pull off ace performances, even under Woodstock's ghastly conditions. The Who were apparently miserable, tripping on acid they hadn't realized they were ingesting in the backstage refreshments, and unable to hear themselves in the monitors when they finally got to go on at 4 a.m. Somehow, that translated into a blistering, furious rendition of \"Tommy\", of which 18 minutes appear here, including the legendary onstage confrontation between Abbie Hoffman (who grabs the mike and starts whining about John Sinclair) and Pete Townshend (who growls \"Fuck off my fucking stage!\" and whacks him with his guitar. Go Pete!).There are other moments of inspiration maybe about a CD's worth, all told. Some of them surfaced on the original tripleLP: Joe Cocker's wildeyed swan dive into \"With a Little Help From My Friends\", Richie Havens' highfriction acoustic ramble \"Freedom\", and especially Sly and the Family Stone's peakafterpeakafterpeak \"I Want to Take You Higher\". Jefferson Airplane's \"Volunteers\" roars, and so does their previously unreleased cover of Fred Neil's \"The Other Side of This Life\"; hearing Melanie transformed from an unknown to a minor star over the course of a few songs is pretty adorable. And yes, Jimi Hendrix's gloriously audacious \"StarSpangled Banner\" deserves its place of pride. By that point, most of the hippie masses were straggling home, but whoever was left on that muddy field on that Monday morning was very lucky. As the old joke goes, though, if they can remember it, they weren't really there. "}