{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14137/homepage_large.9e77181e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Deastro","title":"Moondagger","text":" Deastro is a project led by Randolph Chabot, an ambitious young guy from Detroit for whom no mode of expression would seem to be wholly sufficient in terms of scalability or just sheer size. Everything he does is dramatic and huge: every synth sweep, every guitar charge, every utterance about something either big and momentous or small and more significant than most of us, simply moving through a day, might stop to notice. Chabot also has a good grasp on all the things that conspire to make up pop hooks, which helps. A lot. It helps keep his heaviness light, and it helps make Deastro all the more endearing when the weight of Chabot's ambition wobbles out of sorts.Deastro began when Chabot was a teenager with hundreds of songs written by the time he was 17, according to a biography that also includes mention of a \"space symphony\" visited upon him in a fit of prayer. Then last year came a more earthly offering: a gathering of songs released as part of the fruitful digitaldownload program eMusic Selects. Somewhere in that duality lurk signs of Deastro as a whole: an easy mingling of cracked divination with a manically prolific, savvily webwise work ethic.The eMusic album, Keeper's, cast Deastro as a oneman synthpop band given to vast Technicolor soundscapes with mouthy melodies and grand emotive gestures. It's the kind of homemade music in which no one good idea goes without 10 subideas to attend it and expand it, usually, to charming effect. For Moondagger, the official debut for Ghostly International, Chabot built up a fuller rock band and aimed even bigger for better and worse.It's less than a minute into the first song, \"Biophelia\", that Moondagger reaches a dramatic crest, with a crash of drums and an explosion of guitar that play like parts of an imagined anthem. \"There are no clever words/ There is no poetry/ It's how I feel,\" Chabot sings, with a ton of moody passion. As Moondagger unfolds, he proves wrong on the first two counts and right on the last one.As a songwriter, Chabot comes off like a curious mix of Jeff Mangum and Depeche Mode. He sings of \"dreams of dogs with two faces\" in \"Biophelia\" and feverish rushes of gothy broodbait in songs with titles like \"The Shaded Forests\" and \"Toxic Crusaders.\" In the last, Chabot shows off a giddily ecstatic, defiantly hopeful side that proves more prevalent than his dour one: \"Our culture says we were born like this / With mutant genes and no will to give/ But even the darkest sin has the taste of regret/ We can't be all that bad if we wish were different.\"All this over tracks that positively overflow with sound, from billowing synth builds รก la M83 to little churning whirligig guitar notes that spin out melodic hooks with all the surety of Phoenix. It's accomplished and impressive always, but sometimes to the point of verging on an overstuffed din the aural equivalent of occasionally strained lyrics like \"Egyptian ruins are a mystery mansion full of new mystic scansions and matriarchal advancements\" (those from \"Greens, Grays, and Nordics\"). The drums and the bass parts of the fullband Deastro not to mention the what sound like literally dozens of layers of synths can come off as cluttered. And the seams that seeded the sense of Chabot as a laborhappy homeproducer on his more demolike songs get ironed out in production that favors the big over the endearing.But rousing highlights like \"Kurgan Wave Number One\" and the aforementioned \"Greens, Grays, and Nordics\" (a fourminute epic that actually earns and makes sense of those \"Egyptian ruins\" lyrics) play like the anthems they were conceived to be. And Chabot seems to know his place, with perspective, in the end. In a song whose long title threatens to drown out any lyrics within it, he sings, \"I'm small, but I'm important still.\" He sounds like he's singing to himself while also managing a dramatically inclusive personality he couldn't turn down if he tried. (That song title, incidentally: \"Daniel Johnston Was Stabbed in the Heart with the Moondagger by the King of Darkness and his Ghost is Writing This Song as a Warning to All of Us.\")That's all of us, to be sure. "}