{"label":" Wasted Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14321/homepage_large.d0d10ce7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Psychedelic Horseshit","title":"Golden Oldies","text":" Surely you've heard the party line on this newish crop of lofi revivalists: given enough time wading in the muck, you start to filter out the noise and the song remains. Certainly that much is true for the best of them; as for the recent avalanche of alsorans, the tightrope walk between craft and crunch tends to leave one wanting for more of both. So what's to be done with a band like Psychedelic Horseshit, who've got little interest in pop of any sort, who make their extraneous noise out of necessity rather than some aesthetic choice, and who, through their limited recording budgets and less than sophisticated songwriting prowess, are kind of not a lot of fun to listen to?En route to their forthcoming sophomore fulllength Too Many Hits (this seems unlikely), Psychedelic Horseshit have dropped a few curios that explain this band's unique, er, appeal: Golden Oldies, a collection of CDRs and other smallbatch material that predates their 2007 LP debut Magic Flowers Droned, and Shitgaze Anthems, a collection of wouldbe Bsides from the aforementioned Hits LP. Placed in order, one can see something like progress in Psychedelic Horseshit's sound: Oldies is especially turgid and tuneaverse, Magic Flowers adds a lot of dynamism to the thickasabrick mix, and Anthems is a little longer and more carefully wrought (though even here, there's still plenty of 'tude and not a lot of what most folks consider hooks). Even at their most braying, there's something to Psychedelic Horseshit's songs. When so moved, they can juice the lofi production aesthetic into something far less brittle and cagedin than that qualifier often signifies, and Matt Whitehurst's misanthropy (anyone who's heard Magic Flowers Droned's \"New Wave Hippies\" in concert knows that whole Wavvesbashing incident was hardly isolated) does make for some amusing phrasings. But you could wait roughly forever for maybe 80% of the songs to all of a sudden appear out of the ether here; confident as they are in their slack, stoney, surfandmodtinged no wave, one gets the feeling some of that confidence lies in a belief that almost nobody is going to listen to this weird music beyond the dudes making it and a few passing burnouts.Certainly that much seems true of Golden Oldies, which makes it tough to recommend. These aren't quite demos, but as songs, they're halfbaked at best, halfformed at worst. It's awfully long, lacks cohesion by design, and finds a skronky, idiotsavanty band at their loudest and dumbest. Oldies is not the best introduction to their work, but it is perhaps the finest microcosm of their charm. Of the 20 tracks, you could count on one hand the number you'll remember even after a dozen listens. The chronologically arranged set gets less dunderheaded and more tuneful as it plays, and once you get around to the Summertime Suicide EP with its appropriately sunny \"Anxiety of Influence\" and true shitgaze anthem \"Nothing Is New\" you do start to see a band worth giving a damn about emerging, even if you're not having much fun in the discovery. Psychedelic Horseshit at times recall the early Pavement singles later collected on Westing (By Musket and Sextant) snide charm and crappy sound figure heavily into the success of both. And, like Westing, you're better off listening to Oldies in their original EPsize chunks. This much scuzz at once, coupled with Matt Whitehurst's oftimpenetrable but generally downtrodden lyrics, can be too much bumout for a single sitting.The snide charm thing's still very much the thing on the six songs that make up Shitgaze Anthems; the first song is called \"We're Pink Floyd, Bitch\", which, even with the spacey keyboard lick around the chorus, they are so not. But the songtoskronk ratio strongly favors the former, the sound occasionally veers into the middlefi, and the tunes typically don't just go from noisy to noisier as they do on Oldies; if you don't find yourself pumping your fist to the chugging Xlike intro of \"Dreadlock Paranoia\", you might just find yourself nodding your head to the dub that closes out the track, and that the song spans genres should tell you what you need to know about the progress that's been made between discs. Sure, in the band's past work there are hints of the twangy, stoney raveup of \"Are You on Glass\" and the can'tbelieveI'mcallingthisgorgeous 5 a.m. balladry of \"As In Dreams Pt. 2\". But never before have so many of their good ideas worked out quite so well. It's still squelchy, uncompromising, uneven music, still not quite meeting the \"pop\" part of \"noisepop\" halfway, but these are far better songs for them to squelch over, and far more vibrant squelching is taking place here. Shitgaze is not exactly brilliant, and it's still far from what most people consider fun listening. But if these truly are the castoffs from the next fulllength, well, Too Many Hits might have a couple, actually. Fun remains to be seen. "}