{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14328/homepage_large.ae83d53a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Javelin","title":"Jamz n Jemz","text":" It takes some guts to structure your album around the J Dilla template, where you ask people to chase after a couple dozen downloads for a single LP. Though each cut hovers around the twominute mark on records like this, they all make a lot more sense in the context of the whole. As we trek deeper into the jungles of \"Long Tail\" music consumption, this kind of structure feels almost brash. We're almost a decade into the \"return of the single\" era, but those who craft and consume albums as fronttoback endeavors even those built from fragments wear it as a badge of honor, resuscitating that nerdy elitism of eras that championed the impossibility of trackskipping.Javelin, comprised of New York City craterats George Langford and Tom Van Buskirk, certainly do their share of jumping around, never letting their listener get too close to an idea or a groove for very long. Jamz n Jemz, a CDR they've been distributing at gigs, is flecked with brilliant little vignettes almost every one a gem, many of them certifiable jams that argue for the notion of a million little pieces coming together to make something much larger. Whether or not Jamz n Jemz achieves this in the way Javelin intended is somewhat moot; from a distance, the 17 ideas presented here aren't terribly cohesive and they certainly don't flow. But a larger statement looms: At a time when most people are DJs, it can be rewarding to simply hit \"Play\" and let the professionals handle it.David Byrne certainly gets it. His Luaka Bop imprint recently signed Javelin, immediately giving the guys control of the label's podcast to debut their Andean Ocean Tape, a curiously sly concoction of found sounds and nautically dizzying loops and breaks that reference everything from beachpsych to dietdub, all outfitted with delightfully strange ticks, grumbles, and seagull squawks. Jamz n Jemz has the good sense to dig deeper, exploring sounds even more elemental and danceready.Javelin come over as hardcore cratediggers in the vein of artists like Quiet Village. The knobtwiddling is scarce and utterly unrecognizable amongst the patchwork of dimestore samples (their official band URL is dollarbinsofthefuture.com). It might be dubious to try and pinpoint exactly where and how much work is being put into these cut and paste jobs, but Javelin seem more like puzzlesolvers than puzzlemakers. The mystery only benefits the artistry of stutterstep weirdo hiphop cuts like \"Susie Cues\" and \"Digits\" (an indictment of poor cellphone etiquette in movie theaters Javelin just earned a special place in my heart), whereas more complete and meticulously \"worked\" cuts like \"Oh Centra\" (a terrifically playful bit of 8bit discohop) and the terribly titled \"Lindsay Brohan\" show signs of real musical prowess beyond having way too much fun with an MPC.Even at its most irreverent (check out the melting Elvis impersonator on \"Like Wood Would\" or the 1970s car chase flick nodding \"The Merkin Jerk (Take Three)\"), Jamz n Jemz becomes less and less of an \"idea\" record than a simple celebration of reference, as magnetic opposites marry in the most familiar of ways. At a time when it seems like everyone's roommate is cooking up bargainbin symphonies, Javelin stand out like two heady chefs, turning canned food classics into tiny little pieces of inspired, inverted gourmet reimaginings. "}