{"label":" XL / Parlophone","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14340/homepage_large.4dba3b67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Riceboy Sleeps","title":"Riceboy Sleeps","text":" Ever since Ágætis Byrjun  pushed wigs back a decade ago, every subsequent Sigur Rós release felt like it had to respond to the same question: did we all get duped into falling for some New Age hokum with a really great gimmick? And each time, there was a reason to emphatically answer \"no,\" whether it was ()  and its extraterrestrial fragility, Takk's advance into verdant pop forms, the Hvarf/Heim curtainreveal, and then last year's Með suð í eyrum við spilum endalaustat least had \"Gobbledigook\" going for it.But after \"Gobbledigook\" hinted at surprisingly concise melodic smarts (as well as a dialogue with American indie trends), most of Með  feasted on their most overcooked arrangements yet, leaving the listener to wonder whether Sigur Rós had much desire or incentive to really mess with a sound that made them arguably the most successful postrock act of all time. That issue is one that could ostensibly be resolved by Jonsi Birgisson's Riceboy Sleeps project, recorded with his musical and romantic partner, Alex Somers. Depending on how you look at it, by that measure, Riceboy Sleeps  can be considered a defiant statement, doing a fullon cannonball into Pure Moods bubble bath: Birgisson and Somers keep the lush orchestration and elastic song lengths of Sigur Rós, but break rank by all but eliminating rockbased textures and structures, and most startlingly, the iconic part of the band's sound Jonsi's own voice.I'll be quite honest: When I first tried to tackle this thing as a whole, I fucking hated it. That's not really the response a record that goes so far out of its way to sooth should elicit. But regardless of Eno, Stars of the Lid, and Mountains being a staple of a listener's balanced diet, you always run that risk approaching ambient music while otherwise being in the verse/chorus mindset. But what struck me as most frustrating about 20 minutes in was just how indecisive it sounds about its ambience too deconstructed, patient, and ethereal to really qualify as pop music obviously. But it's also too ostentatious (is the average track length of eight and a half minutes really  earned?) and well, loud to even fit the bill as background music, the dynamics static and nearly suffocating. Brevity is the soul of wit and all, but then again, Jonsi's never really been known for his sense of humor.Despite being recorded entirely on acoustic instruments, much of Riceboy's components will be familiar to those experienced with Birgisson's previous work: the guest appearances from string group Amiina, melodic passages composed on piano but drifting in gusts of reverb like windchimes, choirs that are used as much for texture as they are for melody. That compilation hardly needed a breather, but amidst the tracks that only hinted at texture, \"Happiness\" played like a nineminute sweep of a cool palm across a sweaty brow. Perhaps it's the familiarity or just its presence as the first track that makes it the relative entry point or \"accessible\" single, but regardless of how resolute and patient the chording is, \"Happiness\" finds itself to be comparatively more formfitting than what surrounds it.Considering that Riceboy Sleeps is also a 52page, wordless book by Somers and Birgisson, as well as a visual project, there's the idea that, yes, you're really not meant to swallow this thing whole unless you want to feel like a goose on its way to pâté status by funneling indulgent but indistinct sweeteners. Broken down into (relatively) manageable seventoeight minute chunks, one can summon up the patience to drift along. There's no percussion  per se on Riceboy Sleeps, but nice touches of percussive sound the rock tumblerlike samples on \"Indian Summer\", which recalls the understated and underrated work of Helios. Within the span of nine minutes instead of the robust 68, it's easier to look forward to the choir sighs of \"Atlas Song\", the occasional wave of distortion and static of \"Stokksyri\", and even the curiosity of \"Boy 1904\", containing a recording of the last castrato.In the end, the question surrounding  Riceboy Sleeps recalls that of similarly unwieldy and userdictated content from Flaming Lips' Zaireeka  to Nine Inch Nails' Year Zero is it worthwhile to evaluate a recorded document based on how the listener is most likely  to experience it? Put together, Riceboy Sleeps  is an admirable, intensely personal labor of love from a guy who's risking risibility by the mere matter of including the word \"sleep\" in its title, and although \"Daníell in the Sea\" and \"All the Big Trees\" do little remarkable on their own merits, when combined with the arresting videos found on the Riceboy Sleeps website, you start to understand its motivation more thoroughly. And really, as long as you don't give it your undivided attention, Riceboy Sleeps  can keep you company in your cubicle or gridlock traffic, though I realize that's not exactly as riveting as \"if there's one ambient album you own this year...!\" But in a necessarily faceless artistic milieu, a Sigur Rós Stamp of Approval might make that the case anyway. "}