{"label":" New West","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14335/homepage_large.0de7a62b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Drive-By Truckers","title":"Live From Austin, TX","text":" The DriveBy Truckers have had a pretty remarkable decade, kicking off with the ambitious, careermaking double album Southern Rock Opera in 2001 and capping with the gritty shortstory collection Brighter Than Creation's Dark last year. The former introduced what would become the band's favorite topic \"the duality of the Southern thing\" and was so good it overcame the handicap of that awkward band name. The latter effectively expanded their scope well beyond the South, writing about Iraq vets the way Springsteen wrote about Vietnam vets in the 80s. In between, they released two great albums and one good one, as well as two solo albums from Patterson Hood and an odds'n'sods collection slated for next month. Few bands have been both so prolific and so consistent this decade.Their latest 00s release is Live From Austin, TX, a CD/DVD set that documents their 2008 performance on \"Austin City Limits\". The 13song tracklist draws heavily from Brighter Than Creation's Dark, but also digs deep into the band's catalog, as far back as their 1998 debut, Gangstabilly. Parallel with their ambitious, sprawling albums, the Truckers have earned a welldeserved reputation as a dependable live act with energy, stamina, and an everpresent bottle of Jack Daniels. For \"Austin City Limits\", this is a raucous performance, but for the Truckers, it's politely subdued, at times even a bit staid. It's a good show, but they play better shows every night.If their guitars don't churn and ramble as much as they might during a regular club show, this approach puts more emphasis on the band's songwriting, showcasing the uptempo tension of \"The Righteous Path\", which moves almost too fast for Hood to get his lyrics out. That rush heightens the song's desperation palpably, befitting a tale about everyday people struggling from one day to the next. Likewise, Cooley's Southern boogie guitar licks on \"3 Dimes Down\" and closer \"Marry Me\" lose none of their energy in this setting, and \"Space City\", which was lost in the studio sheen of 2006's A Blessing and a Curse, becomes a particularly devastating country lament, especially sung in his distressed baritone.When Hood spits venom on \"Puttin' People on the Moon\", it's hard not to be reminded of the man most closely associated with the Texas Capitol dome on the Austin City Limits backdrop, but none of these Bushera songs prize the political over the personal. They are characterdriven compositions, and Hood has no trouble singing from these perspectives even as he himself comes across as a raconteur on stage. Hood is as compelling setting up these songs as he is singing them, offering lengthy intros to setlist staples \"18 Wheels of Love\" and \"The Living Bubba\" (although he doesn't take as much time and care setting up newer songs). Sure, his prologue to \"18 Wheels of Love\" may be the very same story he told on 1999's live Alabama Ass Whuppin', right down to the words and inflections, but it's become part of the song itself, as crucial as the chorus and verse. Besides, the decade between that album and this one has added a new chapter in the unlikely romance between his mother and stepfather that's so miraculous you might have trouble believing that happy ending. \"You think I make this up?\" he hollers, his voice going raw. \"I could never make this up!\"Alabama Ass Whuppin' looms large over Live From Austin, TX. Released two lineups ago, it captures the band just before Southern Rock Opera, when Rob Malone was still a member and long before Jason Isbell and Shonna Tucker joined. It's the better live album, retaining the band's scouring guitars and gritty punk urgency. The 2005 DVD Live at the 40 Watt is similarly a more representative document of their live shows, benefitting from an excitable hometown audience and the presence of Isbell completing the threesongwriter/fourguitar assault. But the 2009 Truckers are a better band than either the 1999 Truckers or the 2004 Truckers: Hood and Cooley have written some of their best songs this decade, and the additions of bass player Tucker (whose \"I'm Sorry Huston\" shows her to be a strong vocalist and songwriter in her own right) and keyboard player Jay Gonzalez have strengthened their attack considerably. What could have been a simple fansonly release essentially redundant at this point in their career is instead a strong compliment to what has come before: Live From Austin, TX is a marker in time for a band that seems always to be finding new ways to kick ass. "}