{"label":" Truth & Soul","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14345/homepage_large.4fdfb14d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Lee Fields & the Expressions","title":"My World","text":" Lee Fields is the real deal. The revival of oldschool funk and soul sounds that began with Desco Records in New York and bands like Germany's Poets of Rhythm in the 1990s has produced a lot of fantastic throwback music, some of which stands right alongside the real thing from the late 60s and early 70s. Sharon Jones may be the queen of American revivalist soul, but what's easy to forget is that Jones was discovered by Phillip Lehman and Gabriel Roth singing backup for Fields on a session in the mid90s. Fields cut his first 45 in 1969, a series of followups on tiny labels in the 70s, then recorded an album in 1979 before disappearing for most of the 80s. He recorded a few albums for Ace in the 90s before landing at Desco and its offspring, Daptone and Soul Fire.Now he's with Truth & Soul, and that crew, led by Leon (aka El) Michels, has helped him create one smoking mother of an oldsound soul record. There's a subtle hint of hiphop in this brand of deep soul, but for the most part, it sounds like something that easily could have come out of some imaginary midpoint between Stax, Muscle Shoals, and Philadelphia International in about 1971. A few of the Southernstyle ballads on My World are simply stunning, especially \"Honey Dove\". This is at least the third time he's recorded the song, and this version is a total bomb Fields sweats through every second as the guitar channels Steve Cropper, horns and a small string section drift through the languid rhythm, and Homer Steinweiss lays down a perfectly understated and sharp drum part.Steinweiss and the rest of the Expressions clearly feel this music and don't sound like mere imitators. They serve up an inventive arrangement on the moralistic funk track \"Money I$ King\", which is essentially throughcomposed the horns constantly shift, working up to a dissonant finale. The haunting backing vocals, bells, and shivering strings that color the cover of the Supremes' \"My World Is Empty Without You\" show a lot of imagination and a willingness to interpret a stone classic rather than simply parroting it. \"Love Comes and Goes\", with its big harmony vocal on the chorus, also takes the form out of its box a little.Fields has been sampled a number of times by hiphop artists, and he and the Expressions seem to invite another heist on the title track, offering up a tasty drum break and a supremely moody rhythm track that drips with vibraphone and pitchblack guitar. Even the instrumental \"Expressions Theme\" is solid, playing like a descendant of YoungHolt Unlimited's \"Soulful Strut\" and Willie Mitchell's solo LPs for Hi. For about 40 minutes, My World is like taking a trip back almost five decades. It loses a bit of steam at the end, but if there was any doubt Fields was still the real deal 40 years after his first record, this should obliterate it. My World is a throwback done right. "}