{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14375/homepage_large.1cd55d94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Total 10","text":" Man, 10 years of Kompakt. It doesn't feel like long ago that I first discovered the label the way many others did, through its classic Total 3 compilation, which opened my rockleaning ears to a new strain of dance music that I instantly fell for. Minimal techno! How had I been unaware of this? That was 2001, three years after Wolfgang Voigt founded the Colognebased imprint, and since then it has, of course, grown substantially in size and cultural import, breaking artists like the Field and Gui Boratto and establishing itself as a onestop shop for all things minimal via its physical storefront in Cologne and distribution house. But in 2009, one wonders where Kompakt stands artistically. This year, it released a very nice Ada mix, but it's been a few years since the label presented an exciting new artist, and its last truly essential LP was 2007's breakout From Here We Go Sublime by the Field. So, does Kompakt have the juice to go another decade?Total 10, the label's latest collection of exclusive cuts and recent hits, provides a timely opportunity an anniversary edition of sorts for its makers to address that question. More so than previous installments, which have gradually dipped in quality over recent years (the last great Total comp being the sixth, in 2005) but still remained mostly enjoyable, this year's Total carries with the weight of increased expectations, and even the record sleeve's regal purple and gold coloring seems to suggest legacy, or at the very least continued relevance. So does it deliver? Well, that depends on which portion of the jampacked, twoandahalf hour houseandtechno cornucopia you're talking about.Minimal techno lends itself to slow builds, long stretches where the beat repetition becomes a continuous throb, and Kompakt comps generally aren't known for their brevity. But Total 10 is a monster even by those terms, with an average track length of around seven minutes, and the best way to think about it is in two distinct parts Discs One and Two, conveniently. The first is easily the better of the pair, and it opens with a bang or, well, a serve. DJ Koze, one of the label's more underrated producers, kicks things off with \"40 Love\", a blippy Nintendostyle cut built from live tennismatch sounds (no, seriously) a forehand and its return, crowd gasps, and a Monica Seleslike grunt to boot. He uses the crisp pops and dramatic oohs and ahhs as pieces of his arrangement, and what should sound like a gimmick is simply fun and oddly compelling. The rest of disc one, heavier on undulating grooves than we're used to from the label, matches Koze's winner in quality and playfulness.Previous Total collections have separated new and alreadyreleased tracks into dedicated discs for each, but this year Kompakt has wisely jumbled the two. It makes for a more balanced overall listen, even if most of the best songs reside on the first CD. Here, you've got Dirk Leyers' fantastic mix of Justus Köhncke's \"(It's Gonna Be) Alright\", an epic, minimal discofunk piece replete with choppedup vocal samples and whiny guitars that annihilates just about everything on the Juan MacLean's similarsounding LP from earlier this year. There's \"Lovestoned\", a standout track from Ada's Adaptations mixtape, which provides probably the best example of her unique balance of texture, danceability, and smoothedout sultriness. New jams favor deephouse wallop over glitch and restraint, and thumpers such as Thomas/Mayer's \"Total 9\" and Nicolas Stefan's \"Closer\" explore clubfriendly possibilities with zany basslines, insistent snares, and rampedup BPM.If Total 10's first disc has you convinced of Kompakt's longevity and ability to reinvent itself outside of established microhouse norms, then the second will likely call that into question. It's here where the compilation starts to sag under the weight of its own bulk and relies too much on the type of repurposed tracks that ultimately did in the largely disappointing Kompakt 100 from 2004. Even those of us who pay very close attention to this type of thing almost need a legend to sort out its various tagteam contributors (Mayburg = Michael Mayer and Jörg Burger; It's a Fine Line = Ivan Smagghe and Tim Paris), and the remixes included don't improve upon their originals in most instances (case in point Thomas Fehlmann's take on the Field's \"The More That I Do\"). Add to that a few head scratchers such as Jürgen Paape's circusy \"Ofterschwang\" and Pachanga Boys' utterly bizarre Mexicanpop closer \"Fiesta Forever\", and it begins to feel like a decidedly lopsided compilation.But and this is a big but scattered among Total 10's generally lesser seconddisc material are a few really great songs, the kind that save the album from becoming an unnecessary, whydoIneedanotherKompaktcomp kind of release. One of those is Matias Aguayo's \"Walter Neff\", which, come to think of it, is also the best track of the whole collection. With the finest hand clapsandcowbell arrangement I've heard since the last LCD Soundsystem LP, it's ostensibly modern disco, but more than that it's a futurepop number as good or better than anything being done by YACHT, Neon Indian, or any other recent technosavvy whizkids messing around with dance beats and pop sensibilities. The darn thing sounds so fresh and ofthemoment, and next to a dozen or so other similarly strong cuts here, it makes me think that, yeah, even 10 years in and literally thousands of minimal tracks later, Kompakt's still got plenty of gas left in the tank. "}