{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14355/homepage_large.aa2b485f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Desolation Wilderness","title":"New Universe","text":" So, then, gauzy: slightly wispy, usually reverbsoaked, never too well defined around the edges, floaty and imprecise like a memory. New Universe, the second LP from Olympia, Wash., quartet Desolation Wilderness and quick turnaround from late 2008's White Light Strobing, is awfully damn gauzy. After two fulllengths, it's clear this is Desolation Wilderness' style, a sound not so much lofi as lores. Thus far, the band's best work is as a kind of hazy memory trigger; their slowly cascading guitarled melodies can be imbued with the kind of easygoing beauty that brings to mind slow Super 8 footage of cars rolling by, parks full of trees, sky full of sun, that sort of thing. Yeah, they still evoke flickering memories of stuff like Galaxie 500 and the softer side of shoegaze, too, but there's less of a lead guitar bent this time out, which does help tamp down some of its predecessor's heavy debt. Leader Nicolaas Zwart seems to have put a little more time into crafting songs rather than soundscapes this time out, and whereas White Light felt scrapbooky and occasionally tentative, New Universe sports a newfound confidence and cohesion. Still, though. Is it ever gauzy.And still a tad short in the song department. My biggest complaint about White Light Strobing was that it was too easy to ignore, too breezy, and that it unraveled with concentration. New Universe finds a new way to fall right into the same trap, masking a bunch of janglepop songs in far too much jangle. From moment one, as cymbals meet guitars and slowly swell into a loose strum, the music is constantly clouded by the haze. Zwart's lyrics are almost completely obscured by the production his own and though the band's casual handling of familiar forms can at its best read like the Byrds and the Kinks in a dense fog, songs too often slip by without leaving much in their wake. As with White Light, one certainly senses a wistful, romantic feeling even when the exact message of the song gets lost in the fray; it helps that track titles include \"Strange Cool Girl\" and \"Restless Heart\", I guess. But unlike, say, fellow muzzlepoppers the Pains of Being Pure at Heart, the obscured sonics don't mask any songwriting shortcomings but in fact often amplify them. A few of these tunes feel as though, if you peeled away the film, you'd only find part of a song.Not so with \"San Francisco 2AM\", which starts out chiming and ends up pounding, its melody dizzying like the peak of a long evening out. It's one of just a few moments on New Universe where the song seems perfectly in step with the sound, and it rivals \"Come Over in Your Silver Car\" as the band's best tune. The neargallop of \"Restless Heart\" and the easygoing, almost Philly soultinged \"Satellite Song\" stand out as well, sharp spikes in otherwise fairly staid waters. After White Light, I would've thought Zwart would go the other way with it, throwing a lot more mood into his tunes rather than simply draping atmosphere on top of fairly traditional guitarpop arrangements. This onetwothree punch near the center of the record with the sunsoaked \"Boardwalk Theme\" and the Bradford Coxian \"No Tomorrow (Version)\" trailing shortly behind \"San Francisco\" does suggest that Zwart can get the balance right when he wants, but there's just not quite enough tune in these tunes, and after one too many unremarkable songs, the production haze casts a pall like an overcast afternoon.All that in mind, I actually like New Universe a little better than its predecessor. It's far less frustrating, for one; White Light Strobing went from one superb little twinkler to one boringass overstretched guitar noodle and back too many times to be a satisfying listen, but you can do far worse than to put on New Universe and forget about it until the good parts kick in. Though it's not quite as warm as White Light those long instrumental passages did help there New Universe's shading is more captivating; Light was a sunbleached postcard to New Universe's scratchy but comparatively spry filmstrip footage. And Zwart's got a way with melody, though he's got a way to go in developing it, so it's not too terribly hard to see the comfortable but tooeasy New Universe as the first step in a potential holding pattern. As it stands right now, though, it's a nice bit of gauzy, grayhued racket to throw on when you've only got so much attention to give. "}