{"label":" Lovepump United","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14357/homepage_large.3b157c8d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Pictureplane","title":"Dark Rift","text":" More electronic artists should use the MTV Party to Go series as a jumpingoff point. Sure, it's risky, but at a time when everything else is fair game for interpretation and reconfiguration dancehall, dub, deep house, Balearic why not go for broke and hang your hat on hits like Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch's \"Good Vibrations\" or CeCe Peniston's \"Finally\"? This music was all good times and no pretense, and it managed to spark some muchneeded mainstream discussion about electronic music here in the U.S., however vapid and disingenuous those compilations may have seemed. When this sort of spicandspan, popwise techno music hit, Denver's Pictureplane, aka Travis Egedy, was in grade school an age when sonic consumption is passive. So it makes sense that his mostly solid fulllength debut LP asks the question: Where were u in '92?Dark Rift manages to extol the virtues of those sugarcoated dance music templates while still working within the parameters of punk DIY. Most of the record feels like a wellcurated basement party mixtape; it bounces around enough to keep things ripe, despite sticking to the same few Korg effects and raygun bloops on nearly every cut. Egedy clearly feels comfortable stylehopping, though you could likely tag a number of subgenres within every song from the Afrobeatheavy \"Time Teens\" to the dancehall designated \"5th Sun\", things are left largely uncluttered so an idea can fully flesh itself out before we move on to the next one. Jungle and garage inflections rear their heads at nearly every turn, but they're mostly cleansed of their gutter appeal and newly reupholstered in glitter and gold lamé. Throughout, Egedy finds a way to unearth these likeminded genres' deep roots in glam and disco, so don't let that deliberate layer of noise splashed over the mix fool you: Despite the Massive Attackpruned atmospherics on cuts like \"Transparent Now (Thin Veil)\", Pictureplane's sound ultimately lives and dies by the smoke machine.Dark Rift's two best moments \"Goth Star\" and \"Gang Signs\" hint at another possible path. Both are a little languid and frayed and they seem very much in the now, a time when clipped vocals and delayed synth loops are allowed to nurture the groove instead of stifle it. Rather than working an endless disco suite or breakbeat, Egedy here manipulates samples with the best of them, revealing a keen ear for soundmelding that pushes past those nostalgiainducing raveups into a more affecting realm.Given the force of those moments, you might expect some of the cheeky early90s referencing to sound weak in contrast, but twosteppers like \"New Mind\" and \"Dimensional Rip III\" still succeed on their own terms, happy to appeal to the disembodiedfemalehook and lasereffect set. Indeed, the propulsive, strobestreaked allegiance to the mainstream dance music of days gone by is ultimately the most admirable thing about Dark Rift. Pictureplane's music has its weaknesses the breathy vocal whine on every track is flatly injected and grating but there are enough lofi footnotes, grabbag genre references, and sprightly hooks to draw in a variety of listeners. "}