{"label":" Fonal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14354/homepage_large.a5f3d93d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Es","title":"Kesämaan Lapset","text":" Sami Sänpäkkilä has helped orchestrate one of the most fruitful, stylistically consistent labels of the decade. Finnish experimental/folk label Fonal harks back to days when an album's label stamp was indicative of sound (and Fonal's exquisite digipaks also provide reason to trudge to the record store). Amidst this, Sänpäkkilä has quietly claimed one of the best records in the Fonal catalogue as his own: Es' 2005 2xCD Sateenkaarisuudelma stands as a monument of kaleidoscopic drone and rabbiteared chant. Sänpäkkilä's Kesämaan Lapset dials down Sateenkaarisuudelma's sprawl while exploring increasingly electronic soundworlds.It sometimes seems Sänpäkkilä hasn't yet carved out his own niche among the Fonal roster: Es records don't contain Kemialliset Ystavat's aggressive art foibles, Islaja's doomy vocals, or Kiila's everburied songcraft. Sänpäkkilä does have a fine sense of construct, however: Kesämaan Lapset revolves around its title track, a 21minute carousel of distorted voice, bold, hornstained orchestration, and softpalate fadeout. The final enveloping minutes heavenly choirs, champagne electronics, decaying keyboards are as blissfully opulent as anything a Fonal artist has laid to tape.\"Kesämaan Lapset\" has such a pull to it that the remainder of Kesämaan Lapset often seems slight in comparison. This despite Sänpäkkilä's soundheavy compositions, the product of (likely) constant tinkering (visit Es' website and click \"gear\" for a stepbystep design process of a stringplucking mechanism built using a turntable). Sänpäkkilä saturates his tapes until they drip honey, and the result is not just beauty but a lot of beauty. The overloaded organ sendoff of \"Haamut Sun Sydämestä\" sounds like the chapel blew an amplifier tube; \"Ennen Oli Huonommin\" fills the opening five minutes of the album with randomized digital patter and wayoff sighs. \"Kesä Ja Hymyilevät Huulet\" sees Sänpäkkilä adopting a weird singspeak over a nervous keyboard that, 30 years and a continent away, might've belonged to Red Krayola.Like all pretty experimental music that either contains few vocals or contains vocals we can't understand, it's easy to read religion into Es' compositions (an observation that has been made more generally about the Fonal label). They seem peaceful, reverent, and mysterious. And while it's certainly not fair to ascribe any specific religious intent to Sänpäkkilä, this is part of the appeal: no one should listen to Kesämaan Lapset to contemplate tires or coffee or closet storage. The album's artwork strongly suggests childhood nostalgia, but Kesämaan Lapset offers plenty of fuel for the navelgazing subject matter of your choice.Five albums in, this is hardly a surprise. Kesämaan Lapset is neither as wildly ambitious nor as carefully orchestrated as Sateenkaarisuudelma (the 11 minutes of brightorgan drone that comprise \"Säteet Sun Sielusta\" are as prettily, gorgeously stale as Es gets), but it does delve more heartily into chancey electronics. More importantly, Sänpäkkilä has managed a warm, open composition cycle that is forgiving of his dozing and kind to his epics; so much so that it allows us to function the same way. "}