{"label":" ","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14366/homepage_large.79ec2fa6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Dan Bryk","title":"Pop Psychology","text":" A selfdeprecating Canadianborn singer/songwriter, Dan Bryk is like Rumpelstiltskin in reverse, unweaving gold nuggets into homely straw. A post on his old website detailing the press for his U.S. debut, Lovers Leap, included an Aminus from Robert Christgau, who called the songs \"gemlike acts of idiosyncratic genius,\" which most musicians would count as an unmitigated triumph. Bryk titled the post \"SURE, THE CRITICS LOVE LOVERS LEAP, BUT THEY DON'T ACTUALLY BUY RECORDS, DO THEY?\" He closed with one of his characteristic zingers, which always cut both ways: \"The one thing all the critics seem to agree on: Dan Bryk is Fat!\"You can't blame the press for keying in on Bryk's weight, though. When he lived in North Carolina, between leaving Canada and settling in New York, he ran a studio called Flabby Road. And Lovers Leap included a great track called \"BBW (Chunky Girl)\", perhaps the only genuinely sweet song about overweight women ever recorded. This was no condescending shtick; it was about empathy \"When I'm afraid for my health/ Mom says I'm slowly killing myself/ My love holds tight, she won't say no/ And tells my mom just where to go.\" While it has a relaxed indie tinge, Bryk's crunchy, gleaming poprock is sturdily classic, and his body image seemed to differentiate him from similar singer/songwriters. In fact, it was just a facet of what really makes him unique he sings about what he is, not what he'd like to be.You can't blame Bryk for being skeptical about the industry, either. Lovers Leap disappeared into a black hole of poor promotion and distribution; now after years of immigration and label woes, he's selfreleasing Pop Psychology. It's permeated by Bryk's disillusionment over toiling in obscurity while many (arguably lesser) musicians rise and fall. All the stuff that's usually passive context industry execs, recessionera label travails, and hype cycles becomes besieged subject. It doesn't rankle because Bryk's just as hard on himself. On \"Treat of the Week\", a piano ballad with a drunken rock chorus, he aims his invective at 15minute famers but doesn't imply that he's better than them he just wants his 15 minutes, too. On the upbeat \"Discount Store\", he gripes about the A&R lady having central air while he shops secondhand. All of the bitterly inspired insidebaseball makes Bryk a Clipse for Burt Bacharach fans, peddling witty cynicism like crack. Pop Psychology adds up to an acerbic but ultimately forgiving snapshot of the mercurial musical world Bryk inhabits; the DJs \"spinning algorithms,\" the singer/songwriters wilting under coffeehouse spotlights, the ravening indierock stream teams.This stuff would be merely interesting if Bryk's songs of failure weren't offset by his prodigious talent. His voice is creamy, with a complaining honk that perfectly suits his subject matter, and his falsetto is human yet pure. He channels his classicpop acumen through a lively variety of arrangements: Coasting piano, cresting electric guitar, and humming brass on \"The Next Best Thing\"; piano and distorted lapsteel on \"Apologia\"; livestudio experiments in stacked vocal harmonies and splitchannel guitar leads. And the industry stuff is broadly relatable, because it's all about trying to achieve something when the universe itself seems against you. (The most telling line on the album: \"Horizons in my way.\") In his unromanticized candor about his pettiness, his weight, his jealousy, his mean streak Bryk takes on the mantle of the public loser, a martyr for all of us private ones desperate to seem better, cooler, and more successful than we are. "}