{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14373/homepage_large.179e2715.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Throw Me the Statue","title":"Creaturesque","text":" Shucks. I've been expecting a lot from Throw Me the Statue after Moonbeams, their springy, surprisingly durable 2007 debut, and now I hope I haven't just been waiting for a star to fall. \"Lolita\" and \"About to Walk\" were killer indie pop singles, and \"Your Girlfriend's Car\" and the title track and a few others held up pretty damn well. I didn't get what I was looking for in this year's Purpleface EP, a bland collection of warmedover slow burners and leftovers, and I'm sorry to say I can't find it here in Creaturesque, their sophomore set. It's a record that still finds the band struggling to shake a few influences while picking up a few familiar moves from others. Some apparently come shackled to perennial indie pop producer Phil Ek, who does little here to flatter the band's sound, but the band's biggest problem is their own; one of confidence.In all the best senses of the phrase, Throw Me the Statue are an easylistening band; they play mostly midtempo, guitarled pop rock, peppered with inventive but never perplexing turns and flourishes. Scott Reitherman's honeyed lead vocals are occasionally a bit meek, but for a band who called their first album Moonbeams, that's usually fine. The trouble is, when the song's not there or Reitherman doesn't feel up to it, you get a little closer to the literock connotation of easy listening: the kind of thing you don't have to turn down if your phone rings or some fool steps to your desk. Unobtrusive, they call this. And a lot of Creaturesque is kind of unobtrusive.There's not a song among Creaturesque's dozen to match the best from Moonbeams, and as with its predecessor's lesser numbers, Creaturesque can sometimes float by in a haze of Reitherman's lovely but polite vocals and hushed strumming with not enough melody to go around. It starts out strong, with the bouncy builder \"Waving at the Shore\", but once there moves into \"Pistols\", which takes cues for its floppy melody from several other TMTS tunes (\"That's How You Win\", \"Ship\") without offering up too much of its own.Then there's \"Tag\", which finds the hand of Phil Ek sitting firmly on Reitherman's shoulder; the tune's like a more dour take on the Shins' \"Mine's Not a High Horse\", from the Ekproduced Chutes Too Narrow, right down to the hurricane strum and Reitherman's everywhichway vocal. Even \"Waving\" shows a bit of Shin, too, in its melismatic Mercerian climax. Friends of Phil Built to Spill rear their gnarly beards, too; there's a very Martschy guitar turnaround on closer \"The Outer Folds\", and highlight \"HiFi Goon\" nevertheless lifts everything but the sizzle of Built to Spill's \"Center of the Universe\" almost outright. Though he's produced some of my favorite records, Ek's hardly my favorite producer; he'd muffle Van Morrison if he thought he could sneak another effing guitar into a mix, and he tends not to add much to band's preEk sonic palette but a few new, occasionally toobright tones. And he certainly doesn't do as much for Throw Me the Statue as Reitherman himself and coproducer/multiinstrumentalist Casey Foubert did on the luminous Moonbeams; Reitherman, mild on the mic as it is, often gets squashed here, and the album feels pasty and sags a bit under the adornment.They do get a few more than right on Creaturesque, \"Dizzy From the Fall\" especially; light and airy in tone, gossamer in its intersecting melodies, it doesn't quite have the hooks the Moonbeams highlights did, but bet you'll be clapping right along by the time the horns kick in anyhow. \"Dizzy\" kicks off a nice little midLP run that goes through \"Cannibal Rays\" and the aforementioned audiophilebaiting lazer beamer \"HiFi Goon\". The strippeddown, almost tossedoff sounding \"Baby, You're Bored\" is a nice break from all the slightly overdone stuff that precedes it, and though the dull \"Shade for a Shadow\" is no great shakes, closer \"The Outer Folds\" has a mildly anthemic chorus melody that brings things down smoothly.Some of Creaturesque's failure to connect springs from Reitherman's lyrics, which ache for poetry but often come off as a series of clipped phrases, like they're a little afraid to come out and say just what they mean. His more than occasional inscrutability's a bad match with Ek's windpipe crosshairs, and even when he's saying some things they often fade into the frequently mushy mix. As a lyricist, Reitherman's too abstract to be affecting, and it's hard to imagine anyone loving these songs when through the casual lyrics, Reitherman's frequently disconnected voice, or the cloudy production they hold you at arm's length. Similarly, the arrangements are occasionally familiar and rarely all that interesting: I much prefer the warm, clear vibraphone of \"Lolita\" and harpsichord of \"Your Girlfriend's Car\" to the mushy, nearly all guitarorsynthorbothled stuff here. But it's the song structures that have suffered the most; the bright, bouncy first half and the more plaintive, searching second half of Moonbeams had a ton of nice turnarounds and little moments of pleasurecenter pounding, but the songs here don't hop around enough, and when they do, it's often someplace soft and safe. Creaturesque is an easy enough listen with a few moments that stand at attention, but even the best bits can't compare to Moonbeams', and the lesser stuff's far lesser indeed. "}