{"label":" Tomlab","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1326/homepage_large.f4c9dfc5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Casiotone for the Painfully Alone","title":"Pocket Symphonies for Lonesome Subway Cars","text":" On the instrument respect scale, Casio keyboards have got to be pretty darn close to the bottom somewhere around guitars with builtin amplifiers and ukuleles. Nevertheless, they score remarkably high in the sentimental value category. The first synthesizer budgetpriced enough to serve as Christmas tree fodder for late80s twelve and thirteen yearolds, the Casio has provided many of us with fond memories of onefinger jam sessions to a brisk rhumba preset, trying to decide whether the socalled 'violin' or 'trumpet' setting was a more appropriate voicing. My own model was the beautiful PT87, complete with ROM disk port that allowed me to play along with hits of the day like \"Dancing in the Dark\" and \"Walk of Life.\" Still, like Casio's drinking buddy Atari, there's a certain amount of kitsch value attached to the instrument that prevents one from taking it too seriously. Which is why the idea of a mostlyCasio album that purports to consist of melancholy compositions for lonely souls is a little cognitively dissonant, like a collection of funeral marches performed on Rapman and Drum Buddy. So throughout Casiotone for the Painfully Alone's second LP, a listener's not quite sure whether to giggle, reminisce about softfocus juvenile keyboard experiences, or mope along with CFTPA solitairejunkie Owen Ashworth. Fortunately, when recorded right (read: poorly), Ashworth's digital friend is no less effective a tool for foundart, spontaneousstyle tuning as the acoustic guitar most oneman acts choose. The obvious comparallelison here would be Mountain Goat John Darnielle, who has been known to include the occasional Casio throwdown on his own albums, and whose minimal, hissladen approach to production Ashworth apes here. Actually, he emulates more than just Darnielle's recording style: Ashworth also borrows the fragmentary song structure (the 3:43 \"Destroy the Evidence\" is a downright epic), occasional spokenwordish delivery, and even has a geographically oriented breakup song titled \"Oh, Illinois!\" But where Darnielle's keyboard jams never quite match up with the monophonic vibrancy of his primary instrument, Ashworth shows a knack for augmenting his flimsy instrument with his meager means. Copious amounts of fuzz grant the keyboard's rudimentary, builtin drumbeats significantly more texture (\"Oh, Contessa!,\" \"Yr Boyfriend\") and the old overdistortion technique allows him to squeeze some impressively noisy waves out of the little guy (\"Bus Song\"). Occasionally, when songs go on longer than fifty seconds, these elements allow for a surprisingly full sound that could almost pass for New Order streaming at 28.8 kbps, with just about as much melodic appeal. I'm thinking \"We Have Mice\" and \"Suitcase in Hand\" for you MP3sampling types. And yet, it remains tough to overlook the central gimmick of the album, and despite the rather valiant efforts of Ashworth, the Casio shows its limitations in setting a somber tone. Little touches like the pushbutton tempo shift of \"The Subway Home\" or the hyperminimalist songfrag \"Dying Batteries\" may be cute, but they counteract the album's thesis that the instrument is not mere junkstore novelty. You gotta doff your cap to Ashworth, though, as Pocket Symphonies for Lonesome Subway Cars turns out to contain a few yards more depth than I would ever have imagined my childhood keyboard could provide. Only now do I feel stunted for never progressing beyond those ROMaccompanied versions of \"Greensleeves.\" "}