{"label":" Heartworm","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14397/homepage_large.161a8522.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Cold Cave","title":"Love Comes Close","text":" If vampires are as cool as I'm told they are right now, Cold Cave would've cleaned up at the Teen Choice Awards this year. Consider: Dark, synthsplashed pop songs with enough of an industrial bent to validate any flashbacks you might be having of watching Catherine Deneuve and David Bowie stalk the club for fresh meat in The Hunger. And though pack leader Wesley Eisold (also known for his work in the hardcore outfit Give Up the Ghost) does have the spooky Peter Murphy vocal thing down pat, Cold Cave sound more realized than the oneoff pleasure project they look like on paper. By enlisting noise goblin Ian Dominick Fernow (Prurient) and Xiu Xiugraduate Caralee McElroy to pitch in, their fulllength debut, Love Comes Close, manages to stand out as a successful collaborative effort with a clear sense of purpose. Synthpop, post punk, new wave, atmospheric industrial all these references, which came and went and were fashionable again a halfdecade ago, somehow manage to feel fresh here. It's probably because the songs on Love Comes Close are consistently catchy and well constructed once you have that down, genre concerns become secondary. Still, these are some awfully icy landscapes, and Cold Cave do have a way with mood. Take, for instance, opener \"Cebe and Me\", which exhibits a pulsing, Ambienaddled dry cold that threatens to wear thin if overexercised. But this track turns out to be an entrylevel teaser, as album highlight \"Love Comes Close\" chimes in right on time, an inspired, bittersweet New Orderstyle dancepop track that's as morose as it is curiously uplifting, constantly refreshing itself on that earworm of a guitar hook. From here on out, Love evens out, outfitting those creepy, deadeyed synthetics in more popfriendly garb. The presence of Fernow is apparent and welcome, seasoning the Human League pop pulse with big, bright slices of Throbbing Gristle abrasion on cuts like \"Heaven Was Full\" and \"Cebe and Me\". Cold Cave have the chops to be a depraved batch of noise warriors with a Blade Runner fetish, but I'm guessing that those crystalline new wave hooks they're capable of were just too juicy to ignore. There's an overwhelmingly disaffected quality to this music, but in the sense that even the darkest parts have been treated with Cheer® Dark Colorguard®. So maybe it's McElroy's vocal contributions that are to credit, sweetening danceready tracks like \"Life Magazine\" and the splendid \"The Trees Grew Emotions and Died\" (both of which sound much like two very reinedin Crystal Castles singles). But Eisold proves to be the noble, wellversed synthSvengali of the whole operation, his devilish baritone channeling the vocal reticence of Ian Curtis one moment and the yearning of the National's Matt Berninger the next. True, he sometimes allows the lyrical content to wade a bit too far into chic discontentment for some (\"A synthetic world without end,\" interjects McElroy on the Eastern Euro disco joint \"Youth and Lust\", \"sheds a tear of plastic deception\"), but Love Comes Close is all about that world anyway and makes no apologies, so you might as well just roll with it. Besides, most of the pretenses presented here can't overshadow the sexy fun of a little black lipstick on the collar. Twilight fans, let's cut the shit: throw on a little Cold Cave and get down to business already. "}