{"label":" ","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14404/homepage_large.e6d3f375.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Kreng","title":"L'Autopsie Phénoménale de Dieu","text":" Over the past few years, the small Norwegian label Miasmah Records has been heroically doing its part to make the world a slightly darker, lonelier place with a steady stream of majestically bleak ambient classical releases, some inspired by the frozen polar climes. Last year's Treny, by the Polish producer Michal Jacaszek, was a funereal wash of chamber strings and electronics, but it scans as harmlessly pretty next to Kreng's seriously nasty L'Autopsie Phénoménale De Dieu. The debut by the Belgian artist Pepijn Caudron, L'Autopsie is a harrowing bad trip of a record, a malevolent wisp of low drones, eerie, high whines, and disquieting foundsound samples. If that doesn't sound like quite the right soundtrack for your soulwiltingly hot late August well, maybe keep it in mind for late February, when the ground is the same pallid color as the sky. You'll need this sort of thing then.\"Na De Sex\" opens the proceedings on a deceptively peaceful note, a piano tumbling its way down the only major scale you will hear for the rest of the album. Then, an ominous tritone bowed on one violin and plucked on another intrudes, and from that point forward, the lights shut off completely. Except for a mournful little gypsy violin figure that pops up briefly on \"Caliban,\" L'Autopsie dispenses completely with Treny's weeping string arrangements. The sonic landscape here is arid, even desolate: a single violin whispers a high harmonic; a muted trumpet bleats feebly; a brushed snare rasps like sandpaper. The instruments are separated by yawning caverns of blank space, and the effect is not dissimilar to a Webern miniature, where the silences grow so immense that you begin to be aware of your own heartbeat.To raise hackles higher, Caudron scatters a mix of deeply disturbing sound samples throughout, ranging from muffled screams and dialogue sampled from old horror movies (\"Why don't you turn back into a cat?\" a man inquires at one point. \"I liked you better that way\") to rodentlike squeaking noises, to most upsetting of all the sound of a young woman sobbing quietly while Chopin's mournful Prelude No. 20 in C minor plays in the foreground. On \"Slaapliedje\", children whisper horrible, ghostly sounds into your ear. Wobbly old recordings of opera sopranos spin in a back room somewhere, furthering the creep factor.With such a hauntedhouse ambience, it takes awhile before you notice that Caudron actually uses a wide range of instrumentation on L'Autopsie, including cello, bassoon, and accordion. He seems to operate on the principle, however, that if the instrument can't be shrunk down teenytiny and made to emulate a creaking door, then it goes out the window. There are some glowing piano passages that recall Satie, and some vaguely tribal bangs and clonks in the percussion that summon the spirit of Harry Partch, but mostly, L'Autopsie belongs to its own genre, readymade to soundtrack upcoming David Lynch films or avantgarde theater productions (not coincidentally, the surrealist theater troupe Abbatoir Fermé has used Kreng's music for some of its productions). Hovering like a unshakeable doubt or a 3 a.m. bout of existential dread, L'Autopsie is brilliantly sinister mood music; put it on in the background and it will surely make whatever task you are engaged in at least 30% more evil. "}