{"label":" Neapolitan","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14398/homepage_large.53ec1470.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Wave Machines","title":"Wave If You're Really There","text":" The fulllength debut from Liverpool nerd avengers Wave Machines presents two distinct band identities. There's Fun Wave Machines, i.e., a group unafraid to break out the helium pump for Bee Geesstyle vocals while tidy funk bops along in the background. And there's Pensive Wave Machines, i.e., a group of graceful cowards who adorn their endearing fears with crescendos that hint at triumph without confirming it. One of these guises is decidedly more convincing than the other.There's nothing wrong with geeks angling for some semiawkward dance floor action, just ask Devo or Hot Chip. It's just that, on Wave if You're Really There, the groovers come packaged with singer Timothy Bruzon's \"are you serious?\" falsetto, which quickly turns into a grating teakettle squeal. Simply, it's annoying. Less simply, it doesn't vibe with the songs' oftendefeated viewpoints and ends up undermining them. Which is a shame because upbeat numbers like \"Keep the Lights On\" and \"The Greatest Escape We Ever Made\" are sleek acousticpop confections with Beta Band beats that actually deserve such a comparison. There is a welcome exception: Single \"I Go I Go I Go\" packs the upbeats without the upticked voice and wins.Then there's the other half of the record, where Bruzon relies more on his natural register, a soothing instrument with just the right amount of McCartney and melancholy. These songs ditch the electronics for arrangements that are more quietly epic, as if the band is finally facing their dead and lost relationships head on. Still, they're born pacifists. And that's okay. \"Put your bow and arrow down,\" sings Bruzon on the swelling, Super Furry Animalsstyle title track; meanwhile, \"Punk Spirit\" finds him amusingly reneging on vicious rebellion and rolling out white flags. But even as these tracks submit, they do so with a bristling, realistic vitality; if these guys are going down (and they most definitely are), they're doing it on their own terms. Such is the moral on \"Dead Houses\", where Bruzon nearly whispers about old homes, abandoned homes, childhood homes but his loss is loud.One of the album's other great, slowburning tracks, \"You Say the Stupidest Things\" comes off like a selflashing. But it's not what this band is saying that's particularly dumb, it's just how they're saying it. And since these masochistic fellows seem fully aware of their own foibles, they should keep in mind that singing songs about having no balls in a voice that suggests you actually have no balls is a risky endeavor. "}