{"label":" Leaf","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14396/homepage_large.9d6e924e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Vladislav Delay","title":"Tummaa","text":" In the interest of realness, let me say this: If Vladislav Delay had produced nothing but the ambient records he released on Chain Reaction and Mille Plateaux around the turn of the millennium, he'd be a footnote. That's not to downplay his talent when it comes to gluing his grey synth bubbles and drum thwacks into little sonic shoebox dioramas. It's just that it took the introduction of the disco pulse before Delay made his masterpiece. Even on his best ambient album, 2001's Anima, you feel like you're listening to Luomo minus the rhythm, and the lack is disappointing.Tummaa is just fine as these lowimpact, Delaybranded outings go. Anyone who clicked this probably doesn't need to be forewarned, but just in case: it lacks melody (except in frustratingly haunting and brief snatches); repeating rhythms; a pretty frontperson singing about the universal stuff we feel in our squishy human parts. As usual with this stuff, you can take it straight as possible the tactile joy of certain noises slithering up your earhole, aka the \"wow, that was neat the way some nonmusical sound set my emotions tingling\" factor or let it spice up the stale silences of your daytoday. Or both.Fractured backing for your domestic microdramas? There is a certain earlymorning calm to \"Kuula\", and its blend of quavering synth, and it sounds like someone rustling around in a kitchen while looking for the muffin tin that's gone missing. Bumper music for the world's most avantgarde nature doc? \"Toive\" will add its own notstandard animal cries and the sound of brush crushed under heavy hooves to your next nature walk. And so on. What elevates the album beyond similar outings by Delay's peers is his care. Just as with Luomo, where every vocal hiccup sounded erotically casual and machineplotted, you get the sense these collages proceed as they do for a reason, Delay's openness to organic happenstance adding a little extra suspense to his formal rigor. This is not music made of tidy loops.It's no fun to write about this sort of postEno quote environmental music unquote, because adjectiveheavy impressionism and quasipoetry lurk around the corner with baseball bats waiting to bludgeon the reader's credulity and the writer's rep. So let's end things in the real world, a place that can almost always use a better soundtrack than it's got. I spent most of my time listening to Tuumaa on my porch, watching deciduous trees and offwhite houses bake under the August sun in a flat, featureless patch of suburb. And it made my neighborhood usually so lacking in surface interest it makes Andy Warhol's Emprire look like D.W. Griffith's Intolerance newly entertaining for that hourplus. While I do wish he'd release another (good) Luomo LP, if Delay's dip back into sound art can add alien color to the drab Everytown, U.S.A. street scene I confront each morning, imagine what he can do for you. "}