{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14409/homepage_large.3460fd5c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Polvo","title":"In Prisim","text":" The altrock reunions we've seen over the past decade have generally fallen into one of three categories: the notoriously combative legends who've let time or lucrative postreunion guarantees heal all wounds (the Pixies, Dinosaur Jr.); the postpunk pioneers collecting on the debt owed to them by a new generation of spiritual offspring (Wire, Gang of Four, Mission of Burma); or the fleetingly successful 1990sera acts who don't have anything better to do (Urge Overkill). But the sudden, surprising return of Polvo (or, at least three quarters of its original lineup) after a 12year absence does not adhere to any of these scripts. As a band that bridged late80s SSTschooled indierock and more abstract, angular 90s mathrock, Polvo's legacy feels very much frozen in time they're not a band whose influence is especially apparent among contemporary indierock acts; their popularity never extended beyond the campusradio crowd; and there's no juicy backstory to propagate their myth. They were simply a very good band that made some very good records, and then just plain stopped.But Polvo's first album in 12 years presents a different kind of reunion rationale one that's less about extending a legacy as rewriting it. Like Hüsker Dü, the Minutemen, and Sonic Youth before them, Polvo reached their critical peak with an epic doublealbum statement, 1996's Exploded Drawing, which saw them successfully unraveling their beeswarm guitar buzz to explore the polarities of their sound, from psychedelicfolk lullabies to brutalizing posthardcore. But instead of answering their Daydream Nation with their Goo (i.e., a more streamlined, approachable set), Polvo took a hard left on 1997's Shapes, a hodgepodge of contorted classicrock riffage and fracturedfolk interludes that, in hindsight, anticipated the current vogue for Arthurendorsed newschool psychedelia, but at the time felt like a directionless drift into the unknown, one from which Polvo never returned. Until now.In Prism thus feels like an attempt to chart an alternate course for Polvo postExploded Drawing, in which the band harnesses its psychedelicized sprawl into a precise, laserfocused tracklist, where even the eightminute excursions feel brisk and purposeful. Ten years of recordingtechnology advances also means that Polvo has never sounded more radiant; liberated from the murky, midfi production of the band's older records, Ash Bowie emerges as a forceful, almost swaggering vocalist on In Prism's blastoff opener \"Right the Relation\", which, despite its cryptic allusions to Polvo's history and ethos (\"We see the beauty behind imperfection... I kill my creation to right the relation\") is the band's most forthright, unfussy rocker to date. And, if this were 1997, you could easily imagine \"Beggar's Bowl\" becoming the band's crossover calling card on altrock radio, thanks to seismic, Led Zeplike convulsions and an uncharacteristically funky \"Another One Bites the Dust\"style break that showcases the muscular timekeeping of new drummer Brian Quast. Remarkably, Polvo achieve these breakthroughs without sacrificing any of their signatures, such as spastic structural shifts and eerie, spidery guitar leads where you can feel the strings bend. They've just organized them in such a way that their aggressive and melodic impulses complement rather than fight against each other.Of course, you'd expect a new Polvo album to deliver at least a couple of corkers. But where In Prism truly distinguishes itself not just as a surprisingly good reunion album, but also as the most immediately satisfying fronttoback album in the entire Polvo catalogue is in its quieter, headier stretches. Where the extended running times of \"D.C. Trails\" (6:57) and \"Lucia\" (8:15) may seem to indulge the band's old freeform tendencies, each is carefully constructed on an upward arc: the former cruises on a pleasingly lysergic janglepop tip before climaxing with a fireworksworthy guitar jam; the diregy, doommetal build up of \"Lucia\" makes the song's sudden transition into a melancholic, tambourinerattled pop song all the more effective and affecting. In Prism could be the first Polvo album where the melodies leave as lasting an impression as the noise around them, with Bowie tapping into a more guileless mode of expression that rarely revealed itself before.It's only during the prolonged middle breakdown of the drifty, eightminute closer \"A Link in the Chain\" that In Prism acquires an air of ponderousness. But by that point, Polvo's comeback coronation has been handily earned. If no one was really asking for a new Polvo album at the start 2009, In Prism's dreamy discord feels perfectly in tune with that of contemporary psychedelic iconoclasts like Deerhunter. And if Polvo's reformation initially defied the traditional logic for indierock reunions, In Prism ultimately sets a new standard for them: don't just make it sound like you never left, but rather make the past seem like a mere warmup for what's to come. "}