{"label":" 20/20/20","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14418/homepage_large.695c96ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Damon & Naomi","title":"The Sub Pop Years","text":" Galaxie 500 was a great group, but as usual the glory went to the guitarist. Not that Dean Wareham was much more capable a singer or musician than his former bandmates (far from it), but once he formed Luna, he did seem more naturally inclined toward the spotlight. Meanwhile, the underrated Galaxie 500 rhythm section of Damon Krukowski and Naomi Yang nestled into their niche on the margins, content to call it quits but quietly prodded by some polite benefactors (among them Galaxie 500 producer and Shimmy Disc majordomo Kramer) to continue their hushed career as a duo.The pair's other prime benefactor was Jonathan Poneman of Sub Pop, who, following Damon & Naomi's debut, More Sad Hits, signed the two for a neardecade of increasingly confident releases, culminating in 2000's peak collaboration with Ghost. Admittedly, that decade resulted in a mere three studio albums, but Damon & Naomi's relatively limited output makes them a good candidate for a concise career overview compilation, which The Sub Pop Years welcomingly provides. Divided more or less evenly between The Wondrous World of Damon & Naomi, Playback Singers, and Damon & Naomi With Ghost, while adding material from a 2002 tour document, The Sub Pop Years likely won't spark any epiphanies, but it does help coalesce a career that often, by design or not, threatened to float off into the ether and disappear.When Damon & Naomi get real gone, they practically vanish, and certainly as vocalists Krukowski and Yang were far from forceful, preferring to hover rather than soar. But their songs do build, gently and gradually, with all the invisible grace of a sunrise, letting in the light a little at a time until even barely there tracks such as \"New York City\", \"Tour of the World\", \"The Mirror Phase\", and \"Turn of the Century\" achieve more in terms of emotion than they initially let on. The two know their limitations but embrace them, too, with each song a meditation on simplicity almost presented as paeans to life's slowmotion inevitability. One can easily imagine what, say, demolitionist dervish Neil Young would do with a song like \"Judah and the Maccabees\". Damon & Naomi, on the other hand, deliver an epic by implication, content enough in its own austerity to let the elliptical portent seep rather than spill out.It helps that, between the studio album and the live disc, more than half of the songs on this comp feature contributions from Ghost, and particularly Ghost guitarist Michio Kurihara, who turns out to be such an oddly suited collaborator. Odd, because never do Damon & Naomi reach the heights of his legendary band (though the extended Kuriharafied coda of \"The Great Wall\" is pretty hypnotically great) but suited all the same because he knows how to modulate his playing to support Krukowski and Yang's quiet storm. That Kurihara has stuck with the duo for its subsequent studio albums as well makes The Sub Pop Years an ideal bridge from past to present for anyone playing catchup. "}