{"label":" Barry's Bootlegs","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1328/homepage_large.5fca12c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Cassetteboy","title":"The Parker Tapes","text":" It's easy to dismiss this as a prank album. With a nonstop, wacky surface and a calamitous flow of cheap laughs, The Parker Tapes sounds like the kind of novelty record you'd only own to oneup your friends' Jerky Boys albums. Even \"Mike\" who, with someone named Simon, makes up Cassetteboy dismisses it this way: \"Basically we record famous people and make it sound like they're talking about sex or drugs. It's a winning formula.\" But this is far more than a string of gags. The Parker Tapes is composed entirely of voice and music samples, cut to shreds and reassembled over the course of seven years. It's a labor of love a kind of life achievement for the semianonymous duo that made it and it's also extremely funny, marked by a dry British wit and an ear for great sound bites. They set the tone early with a reedit of David Bowie's \"Space Oddity\": \"Here am I shitting in a tin can/ And I'm farting in a most peculiar way.\" This clip lasts approximately 18 seconds, and then they're onto the next thing; the disc has almost a hundred distinct tracks, each running into the next, jammed with cuts and samples. A prim British woman narrates a sex act; a respectable BBC reporter intones, \"Bill Gates is part of the Forces of Darkness\"; Bill himself notes that Microsoft can \"make people do things\"; Julia Child suggests, \"If you have a child handy, put it through a sieve,\" and, \"A cup of tea goes very well with a joint. It's a hallucinogenic drug. I love it. Stoned. Stoned. Quite high. Look at those donkeys. Lovely bunny rabbit. Fluffy bunny. Rabbit stew.\" And so on. Cassetteboy have formidable technique: you'd think a busy collage like this would take a lot of effort to sit through, but it's so fluid and methodical that it carries you along rather than wearing you out. The guys break things up with dozens of music clips and remixes, from hiphop to pop, making for a kind of postmodern vaudeville, and they construct each voice track with attention to rhythm and flow. Listen to \"Joliver\", which remixes clips from Jamie Oliver (BBC's The Naked Chef): they make fun of him (\"I'm a bit of a tosser\"), but they also build an interesting rhythmic pattern into his speech. It's this skill, as much as their sense of humor, that has landed some of these tracks in the Boom Selection of bootleg recordings, and earned their work favorable comparisons to the highconcept Plunderphonics of John Oswald. They've also earned praise for their satire, which is the most striking part of the record. Cassetteboy use their hardwon irreverence to sneak in vicious political humor, and these pieces have become their most circulated and notorious works. One of their earlier singles, \"Di & Dodi Do Die\", tore down Britain's beloved Princess Diana, but it sounds blunt and sluggish compared to the attacks on this album. For example, they mock Prime Minister Tony Blair, twisting his words to say that the Labour Party will start slashing elevenyearolds with a knife. In this country, the most devastating track is \"Fly Me to New York\", which mocks the only thing Americans don't make fun of: the attacks on the World Trade Center. I don't want to give away too much for those who haven't heard it; I just have to hand it to Cassetteboy that not only is the piece disturbingly brutal, but their decision to build it around samples of Frank \"New York, New York\" Sinatra is the final nail in the coffin of good taste. And yet, whenever I play it for people they're reduced to fits of laughter, no matter how much they object to its criticisms of America. And isn't that the key to great satire? Whether you listen to it once for laughs or study it in depth; whether you take it as a comedy record, a major statement, a technical and aesthetic accomplishment, or just a couple of guys doing silly shit with their tape recorders, this is a hilarious, gripping album. Don't turn your back on it. "}