{"label":" Lovepump United","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14413/homepage_large.9693056f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"HEALTH","title":"Get Color","text":" On their selftitled 2007 debut, L.A. Smell alumni HEALTH were a band going for broke, throwing everything noise, aggression, tribalist tendencies, spastic energy at the wall and barely waiting around long enough to watch it splatter. It was a nihilistic sound postapocalyptic, even and even though you could hear distinct traces of noiserock forbears Liars and Boredoms in their approach, the sheer energy of the thing seemed to suggest the potential for the band to carve out its own style. Fastforward two years later and HEALTH's profile has risen considerably, thanks in part to the nationalmedia focus on their DIY homebase the Smell, a solid remix album, and a coveted opening slot for Nine Inch Nails on one of that group's final tours.All of the pieces were in place, then, for HEALTH to blow minds and unfasten jaws with the followup to their first release, Get Color. And when lead single \"Die Slow\" dropped a few months back, it seemed like they just might pull it off. The thrashing, industrialdisco track was easily the best thing the group had done to date, and it hinted that they had zeroed in on a more neatly defined aesthetic using a heavier focus on melody and song structure. So naturally the big question now is if the rest of Get Color lives up to the promise of \"Die Slow\". The answer is that it does... kind of.In terms of its stylistic shift, the album is an unqualified success. Whether the result of their mixedgenre collaborations with Crystal Castles, relentless touring or plain old musical growth, HEALTH have clearly located their sound. It hinges on a more delicate balance of noise and prettiness (think the heaviest part of a My Bloody Valentine track magnified to entiresong length) and emphasizes frontman Jake Duzsik's androgynous vocals. With this revamped style, portions of Get Color reach the high bar set by \"Die Slow\". One such moment is \"Before Tigers\", with huge walls of guitaranddrum noise that play off its whispertoaroar vocals. \"Nice Girls\" is meaner and more asymmetrical but succeeds with similar contrast. Here, forceful tribal drumming sets off screeching instrumental caterwauls that seem at odds with, but ultimately blend into its ethereal, almost feminine coos.HEALTH also incorporate more electronic textures this time around, and songs like \"Death+\" and \"Eat Flesh\" find the band using intricate synth patterns as jumpingoff points for brutal freakouts. These tracks rely less on melody than those mentioned above, and while usually very sonically interesting, they seem to have only one purpose destruction. In that sense, a number like \"Eat Flesh\" fascinates my ears but doesn't do much for my heart. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to feel when I listen to the song, other than that maybe everything is fucked so it's best we just rage until the sun comes up. Which is a completely legitimate sentiment (and, heck, probably accurate) but I think I was able to glean that much from HEALTH's first record.With its machinegun drumming and endofdays guitar shredding, Get Color's secondtolast track, \"We Are Water\" also seems to be racing towards some kind of total annihilation, a violent end. But the band takes a surprising detour by following that song up with the more pensive closer \"In Violet\", which takes a step back to survey the scorched landscape, assess the damage done, and explore the possibilities beyond the moment. It's this sort of mature downshift that seems to suggest that if HEALTH can continue to find some deeper meaning behind their very impressive musicianship, they might be onto something great. "}