{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14415/homepage_large.79eb2220.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Nudge","title":"As Good as Gone","text":" The name Nudge chose when they formed in the late 1990s turned out to be prescient. Their first few releases, which dabbled in electronic ambience, heavybeat IDM, and fractured funk, were too schizophrenic to fit the moniker. But on their fourth album, As Good as Gone, the group sticks to gentle pushes and soft prods the kind that don't disturb or bruise, but are impossible to ignore. Their sounds approach slowly and rub against each other cautiously. The music is rarely sparse, and often quite full and busy, but there's no jostling for position. Everything interacts carefully, with a tap on the shoulder rather than a shove.What makes that M.O. so hypnotic is the way Nudge applies it to both structured songs and abstract explorations with equal effectiveness. Beatless opener \"Harmo\" collects wafting synths, tinkling percussion, and soaring hums into a thick web. That's followed by the album's tightest cut, \"Two Hands\", a simmering hymn with dubby bass, jazzy drums, and singer Honey Owens' ethereal musings. Yet there's no tonal conflict between the two tracks. Instead they sound like two sides of a coin, exuding one confident, chilledout vibe.Given their pedigree, it figures that Nudge's approach is versatile. Owens comes from the amorphous collective JackieO Motherfucker, and records rangy music as Valet. Leader Brian Foote was in the bubbling postJessamine ensemble Fontanelle; so was Paul Dickow, aka genrestraddling solo artist Strategy. Mixing together that many creative juices could cause a surplus of ideas that blur or cancel each other out. But no moment on As Good as Gone sounds crowded, and the best tracks build intensity with simple tools. On \"Aurolac\", minimal beats and Joy Divisionesque bass escalate to a climax, while on \"Burns Blue\" Foote's moans rise like a spirit floating above its body. The band repeats and varies these elements constantly, like characters in a play. It all culminates in epic closer \"Dawn Comes Light\", a long journey from lonely guitar up to stormcloud drones.The only complaint I can imagine being lodged against this album is a stock criticism often thrown at Kranky records that its devout commitment to texture and atmosphere makes it more admirable than engaging, more studied than livedin. In other words, sterile. But such accusations could result only from surface skimming. Dig deep, and the blood coursing through these tracks the insistent bass lines, the impulsive percussion, the stirring voices is clear. That's why As Good as Gone is Nudge's best album so far, the kind of record that indicates a band has found its signature sound, and is poised to deepen and expand it. "}