{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14434/homepage_large.4a2d9342.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"The Beatles","title":"Stereo Box","text":" In 1987, the Beatles' albums appeared on compact disc for the first time. Considering how much music had already found its way to CD, the Beatles were very late, so the digital rollout was a big deal. The new issues came out in batches and the excitement steadily built, peaking when Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band came out on June 1, 1987, the 20th anniversary of its original release (\"It was 20 years ago today...\" was perhaps the greatest record marketing hook of all time.) In the 22 years since, plenty of bands have had their catalogues reissued a few times over (some with ridiculous frequency looking at you, Bowie and Costello), either to take advantage of improvements in technology or to repackage the records to sell them again to existing fans. But those 1987 CD versions have been it as far as the original Beatles albums. They've done some special projects Let It Be...Naked, two volumes of The Capitol Albums, collecting American versions of their records, the remix album Love but if, two months ago, you wanted to buy a copy of A Hard Day's Night, you'd be getting the 1987 remaster, done with 1987 technology, complete with a flimsy, barebones CD insert in a jewel case.This week, Capitol/EMI rectifies the situation. The entire Beatles catalogue has been remastered and the CDs are coming out in new editions. It is perhaps ironic that this is happening as interest in the compact disc format is on the wane, but once again Beatles fans are excited. Are they worth buying again? Over the next three days, we're going to be reviewing all of the Beatles reissues, including the Beatles Rock Band game also coming out this week. But in addition to discussing the music and the records, we wanted to take a moment here to lay out some general thoughts on the sets, with further details relegated to the proper reviews.First, the configurations. All 12 original albums, from Please Please Me to Let It Be, have been remastered and are being issued in stereo (these are the same tracklistings as have been on CD since the 80s, including the American version of Magical Mystery Tour). In addition, the two Past Masters CDs, which collect singles and tracks that didn't appear on the original albums, have been combined into one 2xCD set. The first four albums are appearing in stereo on CD for the first time. The packaging for all stereo CDs includes the original artwork and liner notes, along with new recording notes and a historical essay. Rather than jewel boxes, the stereo CDs are packaged in sharplooking and durable foldout cardboard packaging. Each CD contains a short documentary in QuickTime format on the making of the album (these are said to be limited to this initial reissue).The packaging in general is very well done; the albums feel like they were put together with care and great attention to detail. You hold one in your hand, and it feels important. I've never been a fan of the plastic jewel box, and it's wonderful that they've done away with them here. CDs slide into a little pocket, so there are no spindles to break. The liner notes are succinct and informative, they favor the factual over the hyperbolic, and they cover what should be covered. The documentaries are well done but about what you would expect: four minutes long or so, narrated with interviews with the Beatles and George Martin culled from the Anthology project, with archival photos and film footage. They're certainly nothing revelatory, but a nice intro to the world of the album for anyone unfamiliar with the details. All in all, they did the packages right.In addition to the individual CDs, the reissues are available in two box set configurations. The Stereo Box collects the stereo versions of all the albums and adds a DVD gathering all the short documentaries in one place. In Mono limited, but it's not exactly clear yet how limited is more of a specialty item. It presents mono mixes of albums (which are available only in the box set, not for sale individually) from Please Please Me up through The Beatles (aka the White Album). Yellow Submarine, Abbey Road, and Let It Be were never mixed for mono, and are not included, but the set does include a 2xCD set called The Mono Masters with mono mixes of most of the singles included on Past Masters (a few of the later ones were never mixed for mono). Each record included with In Mono appears in a miniLP replica package, accurate all the way down to the original printing on the inner sleeves (yep, you can slide the CDs in them if you want). Two discs, Help! and Rubber Soul, also contain the original stereo mixes on the same disc as the mono mixes (the 1987 CD issues were newly remixed for stereo). The original inserts included with the LPs the individual portraits in The Beatles, the cutouts in Sgt. Pepper's are included as well. There are no CD booklets in In Mono; rather, the set contains a separate booklet of liner notes, covering the Mono Masters set in detail, and explaining the differences between the stereo and mono mixes of the proper albums. There are also no minidocumentaries.Why mono? Two reasons. First, pop music in stereo was still a novelty through most of the 60s. Radio was dominated by singlechannel AM, and the young people who bought LPs were far more likely to have a mono record player as a sound source. Given their audience and the technology of the time, for much of the Beatles' run, the band themselves considered the mono mix as the \"real\" version of the record and devoted more of their attention to it. Mono mixes were prepared first with the involvement of the band, and in some cases, George Martin and EMI engineers completed stereo remixes of the albums later, after the group had left the studio. So mono, first off, presumably hews closer to the intentions of the Beatles themselves. It's what the Beatles had in mind, their vision of the records.Secondly, since the mono and stereo mixing sessions happened at different times, there are differences between the two versions, not just in the balance of the sound but also in the actual content. Different takes were sometimes used for punching in overdubs, or an alternate vocal take might make its way into the mix. Sometimes tracks were edited differently, and would be shorter or longer, and in some cases the tape ran at a slightly different speed, changing the pitch slightly. Some of the differences are subtle, and some are not. The mono version of \"Helter Skelter\", to take one example, is a minute shorter, as the \"false\" ending fadeout is presented as the track's true ending (and it thus omits the closing scream of \"I got blisters on my fingers!\") The significance of these differences will depend on the level of one's Beatles fandom; of course, those shelling out for the In Mono box will likely enjoy poring over the details.Comparing stereo and mono versions also offers an opportunity to think about changes in the technology of music listening. In the 60s, far fewer people listened to music on headphones. Music was meant to be heard through the air over the radio, in a car, on a jukebox, in a living room. And mono mixes were not designed with headphone listening in mind. It's been pointed out that mono records heard through headphones can sound like they are coming from a single point in the middle of your head, which can feel strange. I find that as the decade wore on and stereo mixes became more sophisticated, the Beatles' albums become less interesting on headphones when they are in mono the swirling pans of psychedelic material like \"I Am the Walrus\" or \"Revolution 9\" moving around are missed. From roughly Revolver forward, if I'm listening on headphones, I generally prefer the stereo mixes. Over a sound system, though, the mono mixes throughout the catalogue sound absolutely wonderful. The first four albums, however, with their extreme stereo separation sound, sound much better in mono in my opinion, regardless of the playback source.In any case, the sound of these remasters, mono or stereo, is exceptional. I've always felt that the sound quality of the original 1987 remasters was slightly underrated. The CD issues were well received at the time and were considered state of the art, but as the years wore on and the label never did anything to improve them, resentment set in and people began to focus on their flaws. Fair enough. But whatever you think of the 1987 remasters, these new versions are a marked improvement. In terms of clarity and detail, they are consistently impressive. But they're also successful for showing restraint.In the last few years, there's been a lot of talk about the \"loudness war\" the tendency to overcompress and master albums too \"hot,\" so that dynamic range is squashed and peaklevel sounds are pushed to the point of clipping. Fortunately, that has not happened here. These CD versions are definitely louder across the board, but there's still plenty of breathing room, so that the dynamic sound and these records were nothing if not dynamic hits the way they should. Interestingly, the mono mixes are uniformly a bit quieter than the stereo mixes, tending to fall somewhere between the original stereo master and the new one. To get geeky here for a moment, a few diagrams, so that you can see the increases in volume with the new set. The key when looking at waveforms is to take note of whether the peak sounds (which come closest to the volume ceiling inherent in digital audio) maintain the same relationship to the quieter sounds. I'm not an engineer, but the loudest sounds:quietest sounds ratio looks to me to be intact.\"Tomorrow Never Knows\" [1987 Remaster]\"Tomorrow Never Knows\" [2009 Remaster]\"Tomorrow Never Knows\" [Mono]\"While My Guitar Gently Weeps\" [1987 Remaster]\"While My Guitar Gently Weeps\" [2009 Remaster]\"While My Guitar Gently Weeps\" [Mono]\"I Want You (She's So Heavy)\" [1987 Remaster]\"I Want You (She's So Heavy)\" [2009 Remaster]Listening to the new masters, the differences in sound quality generally manifest in three ways: songs have more \"punch,\" with Paul McCartney's bass (an absolute wonder throughout) and Ringo's drums hitting with more force; the separation is better, so that instruments and (especially) layered vocals have more definition when the Beatles are harmonizing, you can more easily pick out the different vocalists, and the voices have more presence; and finally, the sound in general seems just a touch brighter, with various sound effects, cymbals taps, and so on, ringing with more clarity. The differences to my ears are not quite night and day, but they are certainly there, and they are noticeable. And it's satisfying to have these albums, absolutely some of the bestengineered records in the history of pop music, sounding as good as they can.And now, onto the music. Note that, rather than doing so for individual records, we're designating the Beatles sets as a whole as \"Best New Reissues\".Please Please MeWith the BeatlesA Hard Day's NightBeatles for SaleHelp!Rubber SoulRevolverSgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club BandMagical Mystery TourThe Beatles Rock BandThe BeatlesYellow SubmarineAbbey RoadLet It BePast Masters "}