{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14446/homepage_large.64295fc7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Amy Millan","title":"Masters of the Burial","text":" Amy Millan has an evocative whisper of a voice, but it is best served when bolstered by collaborators. In Stars she plays the tart, girlish counterpoint to Torquil Campbell's Morrisseyloving drama queen, grounding his theatrical tenor in realism on their bubbly, synthesizerkissed pop. And in Broken Social Scene she is part of the crowd, one of a trio of shivery voiced women who add emotional hooks to the collective's often cerebral, atmospheric sound. On her own, however, she lacks heft. On her second woodsy solo album she admits as much by loading the collection with covers four of the 11 tracks are remakes on this 31minute record. Which is a shame because, even though the album is slight, it is quite pretty, thanks to its lush, intimate production.Despite the padding. Millan's originals are the best parts of Masters of the Burial. \"Low Sail\" flickers like a campfire with its warm strings and understated pedal steel melting under the repeated, lissomefingered acoustic guitar arpeggio. \"Lost Compass\", over too soon at less than twominuteslong, turns a smoky ode to feverish sexual desire into a spare, acoustic waltz. And \"Day to Day\" distinguishes itself as a practically a cappella endeavor. With just some tinny percussion which sounds partly like a sampled live drumline and partly like a fuzzy programmed drum machine to bolster her own feathery tones, the emphasis is placed squarely on Millan's best musical feature: her honeyedtwilight voice. On her last solo outing, 2006's Honey From the Tombs, Millan presented herself as a cowgirlchanteuse, drowning her sorrows in whiskey and Emmylou Harris records. But though it is torchy and folksy, this collection mostly eschews that vibe the most notable exception being album closer \"Bound\", which dosados with fiddle flourishes, pedal steel, and the Canadian singer's valiant attempt at Southern twang as she sings lines about \"the fussin', the fightin', the boozin', [and] the cryin'\".Millan's taste in covers is eccentric, running the gamut from the obscure (\"Old Perfume\" by defunct Canadian rockers Weeping Tile) to the expected (\"Day to Day\" by Jenny Whiteley whose \"Baby I\" was the lone cover on Honey From the Tombs). Her version of Richard Hawley's \"Run for Me\" is a surprising success, though, with her feminine murmur adding new depth to a song that originally hinged on its British songwriter's growling, masculine delivery. And while Millan's version of Death Cab for Cutie's \"I Will Follow You Into The Dark\" is handsome enough with its keening pedal steel and kettlesteam harmonies, it feels unnecessary. Did we really need another version of Death Cab's loveanddeath theme song? The original is more than mawkish enough.Overall, the gauzy prettiness of the collection, its initial strength, can get boring, and things never manage to heat up beyond a low simmer. Without Campbell to up the dramatic stakes or other Broken Social Scenesters to quirk up the percussion or rouse the dynamics, Millan sounds bland. But even if her solo work is mostly onenote, at least the alluring voice she sings it with is always pleasurable. "}