{"label":" Mexican Summer","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14453/homepage_large.5c66ed4d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Washed Out","title":"Life of Leisure EP","text":" Did our parents give us too much selfesteem? Not that long ago, message boarders could diss and dismiss boring new bands (insert your least favorite postpunk revivalists here) for sounding like \"a copy of a copy of a copy.\" Fast forward just a few years, and that's exactly what some of the most exciting new bands sound like.Pastiche and intertextuality are as ancient as postmodernism not to mention disco, hiphop, and the remix but childhood memories, in particular, are present now like never before. Today's blockbuster movies are based on yesterday's beloved toys; today's wars and political battles are sequels, too. It isn't surprising that music would reflect the zeitgeist. What's striking is how an international cohort of rising artists has successfully translated this culture of watery VCR transfers and FisherPrice cassette rips into 1980sinspired psychedelic music.Names like Ducktails, Reading Rainbow, VEGA, Pocahaunted, and, especially, Memory Tapes tell you a lot about where these disparate reminiscers are coming from. Arguably, more than genre tags like \"glofi\" or The Wire critic David Keenan's \"hypnagogic pop,\" but those labels can be useful, too. Washed Out, the solo project of Georgia (via South Carolina) multiinstrumentalist Ernest Greene, fits in almost too well with the balmy lofi synth atmospherics of peers like Neon Indian, Toro Y Moi, Small Black, the higherfi jj, or the darker, heavier SALEM, as well as the more guitarbased Real Estate, Best Coast, and Pearl Harbour. Washed Out's debut Life of Leisure EP, out digitally now and on 12\" early next month (another release, the cassetteonly High Times, arrived September 15), isn't at the top of its class, but Greene so far is one of this fledgling aesthetic's most gifted students.Focusing on romantic nostalgia and homespun textures, Life of Leisure does with 80s soft rock and synthpop what Glass Candy and Chromatics did with Italo disco a couple of years ago, only Washed Out evokes summer afternoons indoors rather than the Italians Do It Better crew's earlya.m. urban stalking. Outofsync PBStheme synths and videogame lasers meet funky horn breaks on opener \"Get Up\", as Greene's slurry vocals suggest deep pain. A sampled sax sighs mournfully behind a choppedup voice, Cut Copypasteable beats, and some more indistinct singing on \"Lately\". Life of Leisure's six tracks, whether poppier and more approachable like \"New Theory\", or moody and alarming like \"Hold Out\", tend to cut off suddenly, which gives the EP an appealing, unfinished quality. Like hearing a work in progress: Greene has only been making music under his current moniker for a couple of months, so don't come flaming me if his live shows suck or his Dave Fridmannproduced sophomore album flops in 2013.More than some contemporaries, though, Washed Out submerges a sense of intense feeling within its 80sfantasy electronic ether. Greene's \"copy of a copy\" distance, then, comes across as a form of emotional repression. The yearninginutero effect is strongest on woozy centerpiece \"Feel It All Around\". With blurry singing, cheapsounding synths, and a humid, syrupy flow, the track suggests an 80s synth pop hit that won't come straight out and cop to itself or a young man in love, too tonguetied (or too stoned?) to admit it. \"You feel it all around yourself,\" Greene echoes. As for what \"it\" is, the song never says.If this review itself reads like a \"memory of a memory\" (to sample another phrase from Keenan), blame \"Feel It All Around\". Days after the filing of a final draft packed with trenchant insights drawn from the similarities between the track's choral drone and 10cc's 1975 hit \"I'm Not in Love\", it came to light that Washed Out's signature tune is actually based around a loop from Gary Low's 1983 single \"I Want You\". The words you're reading changed; the rating didn't. \"You're soooooo... fine,\" it sounds like Greene's finally able to bring himself to say on finale \"You'll See It\", one of the EP's loveliest and most tuneful tracks; \"Don't you fight it.\" OK, I have to go fastforward through NutraSweet and Sylvania commercials to watch the TV movie of Alice in Wonderland with Ringo Starr as the Mock Turtle now. "}