{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14444/homepage_large.1c345345.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"The Beatles","title":"Magical Mystery Tour","text":" After the death of manager Brian Epstein, the Beatles took a series of rather poor turns, the first of which was the Magical Mystery Tour film. Conceived as a lowkey art project, the Beatles were oddly nonchalant about the challenges of putting together a movie. They'd assembled records, they'd worked on A Hard Day's Night and Help! how hard could it be? Without Epstein to advise, however, things like budgeting and time management became a challenge, and this understated experimental film turned into a sapping distraction.Musically, however, the accompanying EP was an overwhelming success. The EP format apparently freed the band to experiment a bit, not having to fill sides of a 45 with pop songs or make the grand statements of an album. The title track is a rousing set piece, meant to introduce the travelogue concept of the film. The remaining four songs released exclusive to the EP are lowkey marvels Paul McCartney's graceful \"The Fool on the Hill\" and musichall throwback \"Your Mother Should Know\", George Harrison's droning \"Blue Jay Way\", and the percolating instrumental \"Flying\". Few of them are anyone's alltime favorite Beatles songs, only one had a prayer of being played on the radio, and yet this run seems to achieve a majesty in part because of that: It's a rare stretch of amazing Beatles music that can seem like a private obsession rather than a permanent part of our shared culture.As a more laidback release, the EP suggested the direction the band might have taken on the White Album had it remained a full band, happy to shed the outsized conceptualism and big statements and craft atmospheric, evocative pieces. In the U.S., the EP was paired with three recent doublesided singles, ballooning Magical Mystery Tour into an album the only instance in which a U.S. release, often mangled by Capitol, became Beatles canon. With only the EP's title track married specifically to the film's themes, the overall effect of a title track/album sleeve as shell game was in line with Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.Of the three singles, the undisputed highlight is \"Strawberry Fields Forever\"/ \"Penny Lane\", John Lennon and Paul McCartney's tributes to their hometown, Liverpool. Slyly surreal, assisted by studio experimentation but not in debt to it, full of brass, harmonium, and strings, unmistakably English when critics call eccentric or baroque UK pop bands \"Beatlesesque,\" this is the closest there is to a root for that adjective. There is no definitive Beatles sound, of course, but with a band that now functions as much as a common, multigenerational language as a group of musicians, it's no surprise that songs rooted in childhood the one experience most likely to seem shared and have common touchpoints are among their most universally beloved.The rest of the singles collected here are no less familiar: Lennon's \"All You Need Is Love\" was initially completed up for an international TV special on BBC1 its basic message was meant to translate to any language. Harrison's guitar solo, producer George Martin's strings, and the parade of intertextual musical references that start and close the piece elevate it above hippie hymn. Its flipside, \"Baby You're a Rich Man\", is less successful, a secondrate take on John Lennon's moneyisn'teverything theme from the considerably stronger \"And Your Bird Can Sing\". It's the one lesser moment on an otherwise massively rewarding compilation.Much better from Lennon is \"I Am the Walrus\", crafted for the Magical Mystery Tour film and EP but also released as a doublesided single with McCartney's \"Hello Goodbye\". One of Lennon's signature songs, \"Walrus\" channels the singer's longtime fascinations with Lewis Carroll, puns and turns of phrase, and non sequiturs. \"Hello Goodbye\" echoes the same contradictory logic found in the verses of \"All You Need Is Love\", a vague sense of disorientation that still does little to balance its relentlessly upbeat tone. McCartney excelled at selling simplistic lyrics that risk seeming cloying, though, and he again does here plus, the kaleidoscopic, carnivalride melody and interplay between lead and backing vocals ensure it's a much better record than it is a song.In almost every instance on those singles, the Beatles are either whimsical or borderline simplistic, releasing songs that don't seem sophisticated or heavy or monumental (even though most of them are). In that sense, they're all like \"All You Need Is Love\" or childhood memories or Lewis Carroll easy to love, fit for all ages, rich in multitextual details, deceptively trippy (see Paul's \"Penny Lane\" in particular, with images of it raining despite blue skies, or the songs here that revel in contradictions \"Hello Goodbye\"'s title, the verses in \"All You Need Is Love\"). More than any other place in the band's catalogue, this is where the group seems to crack open a unique world, and for many young kids then and since this was their introduction to music as imagination, or adventure. The rest of the Magical Mystery Tour LP is the opposite of the middle four tracks on the EP songs so universal that, like \"Yellow Submarine\", they are practically implanted in your brain from birth. Seemingly innocent, completely soaked through with humor and fantasy, Magical Mystery Tour slots in my mind almost closer to the original Willy Wonka or The Wizard of Oz as it does other Beatles records or even other music timeless entertainment crafted with a childlike curiosity and appeal but filled with wit and wonder.On the whole, Magical Mystery Tour is quietly one of the most rewarding listens in the Beatles' career. True, it doesn't represent some sort of forward momentum or clear new idea largely in part because it wasn't conceived as an album. The accompanying pieces on the EP are anomalies in the Beatles oeuvre but they aren't statements per se, or indications that the group is in any sort of transition. But if there was ever a moment in the Beatles' lifetime that listeners would have been happy to have the group just settle in and release songs as soon as possible, it was just before and after the theninterminable 10month gap between the Revolver and Sgt. Pepper's. Without that context, the results could seem slight a sortof canonized version of Past Masters perhaps but whether it's an album, a collection of separate pieces, or whatnot matters little when the music itself is so incredible.[Note: Click here for an overview of the 2009 Beatles reissues, including discussion of the packaging and sound quality.] "}