{"label":" American Dust","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14474/homepage_large.efb0acd9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Crayon Angel: A Tribute to the Music of Judee Sill","text":" There are cult artists, and then there are cult artists. Judee Sill is a little of both. In one sense of the word, she remains an obscure singersongwriter with only a passing familiarity with the mainstream (she wrote \"LadyO\", a hit for the Turtles) but with an avid audience devoted to tracking down every note she recorded. In the other sense of the word, Sill's songs have many of the trappings of an upstart California cult: astral planes, heavenly spaceships, apocalypse, and a unique understanding of a certain crossmaker. By today's standards, it can sound a bit loopy, but also much more benevolent than other cults and cult artists. Hers is a distinctly compassionate worldview, which seems natural given that music served as an escape from the harsh burdens of her reality: broken family, heroin addiction, health problems, stalled career, and an early death.Perhaps that explains why fans are often so protective of Sill's legacy and also why this new tribute album often sounds so noncommittal. Her complex songs which typically emphasize swooping melodic lines and eschew choruses demand complete devotion from listeners and performers, and only a handful of these fifteen artists give themselves over so completely to the material. Ron Sexsmith and P.G. Six open and close the compilation with pretty but mundane versions of \"Crayon Angel\" and \"'Til Dreams Come True\", respectively, and in between the Bye Bye Blackbirds reimagine \"There's a Rugged Road\" as a Gram Parsons lament, which isn't that much of a reimagining. Meg Baird doesn't have the vocal presence to convey the melody on \"When the Bridegroom Comes\"; she gets lost in the song. And then Marissa Nadler ignores melody altogether. Accompanied by Black Hole Infinity, her dark, cramped take on \"The Kiss\" favors dull triphop atmosphere and a breathless delivery, but feels neither erotic nor celebratory, just grayly downcast and overlong.For fans, this collection will be of special interest for including two recently discovered compositions that Sill never recorded. \"Reach for the Sky\" turns the holdup line into a spiritual imperative, but it makes more sense at least autobiographically as a Sill tune than as a Beth Orton tune, where the message sounds obligatory rather than felt. Bill Callahan's carefully, patiently, glacially paced \"For a Rainbow\" shuffles along for eight long minutes. He doesn't always hold your attention, but his efforts toward eccentricity are appreciated.The best moments on Crayon Angel are created by the truest believers, whose own idiosyncrasies compete with Sill's. Final Fantasy arranges \"The Donor\" as a variegated pattern of keyboard lines, reducing the tune to 1s and 0s and finding a liturgical melody at its heart. Similarly, Nicolai Dunger's \"Solder of the Heart\" shouldn't work but does; his performance, which combines the vocal mannerisms of an earthier Jeff Buckley and the accompaniment of a Sunday afternoon piano lesson, sounds both refreshingly unrehearsed and evocatively overthetop. Daniel Rossen resurrects the demo \"Waterfall\" and fills it out nicely, and Princeton not only samples Sill's live introduction to \"Down Where the Valleys Are Low\", but recasts the song as a short, sweet hymn full of oddball percussion, mewing keyboards, and distracted vocals. But the real gem here the reason to visit and revisit this collection is Frida Hyvönen's \"Jesus Was a Crossmaker\", a lovely, lonely gospel number that features the Swedish singersongwriter layering her vocals into a celestial choir and unearthing new veins of meaning in the ambiguously scriptural lyrics. More than any other artist on Crayon Angel, Hyvönen understands Sill's intentions and appeal, and this cover sounds positively inevitable, as if Sill had prophesied it years ago. "}