{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14463/homepage_large.af49a01a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Record Club","title":"The Velvet Underground & Nico","text":" As the Internet has proved abillionfold over by now, anybody can do a cover song. Be it fanboy karaoke love letters, guiltypleasure attentiongrabs, lazy Bside filler, or just plain amateurs singing into their laptops and broadcasting the results on YouTube, there's a seemingly unquenchable thirst for musical masquerading. Now covering an entire album, that takes a special testicular virility and devotion, a feat that only a few bands have had the gall (or the chops) to attempt your Camper van Beethoven, your Pussy Galore, your Petra Haden, your Phish. The motivations might be the same as covering a single track, but the commitment is exponentially higher. Just think of all the chords and words you have to learn!So I doff my cap to Beck for making not just one attempt at fullalbum reenactment, but launching a whole systemic \"Record Club\" effort of recreations on his website. The game is this: Beck, and whatever L.A. scene buddies are around, spend a day covering a chosen album without rehearsal or forethought, though presumably they're printing out some lyric sheets. It may seem selfindulgent, but in practice it's likely a hell of a lot of fun. It's also an A+ use of a website, embedded video players, and a home studio, and considering the people involved, is way more interesting than most albums of original material.To launch this project, Beck aimed low, choosing a littleknown cult record called The Velvet Underground & Nico. Seriously though, it's a ballsy move but a smart one icons, after all, wear fawning worship well, and I'm much more skeptical about his inprogress followup pick, Leonard Cohen's Songs of Leonard Cohen. The roster for VU & Nico features frequent coconspirator Nigel Godrich, members of Beck's touring band and \"Introducing Thorunn Magnusdottir as Nico.\" Oh, and Beck's broinlaw Giovanni Ribisi, who the singer claims is \"a virtuoso of just shredding.\"So with all the pieces assembled, Beck and his merry band faced a fork in the road: straightforward covers, or complete reworkings? Perhaps unsatisfyingly, they choose neither: \"Sunday Morning\" suggests faithfulness will be the move, with a sleepy celloenhanced arrangement that is a passable forgery of the original. Here, and elsewhere, Beck's Codeine headcold voice is a passable replacement for Lou Reed, nailing the opiate haze if not quite reaching the snide pathos underneath.\"Waiting For the Man\" is where the Record Club starts to diverge from the source material, and here it's not for the best. Rather than being the taut, paranoid shuffle a song about waiting for your drug dealer really should be, Beck & co. make it a ramshackle hootenanny, the approach being \"everybody grab the nearest instrument and vamp.\" Unfortunately, that seemed to be the instructions for most of VU & Nico's epic drones, \"Venus in Furs\" and \"Heroin\", and \"European Son\" all losing their edge in overly busy arrangements and carrying a noticeable John Caleshaped hole. \"Heroin\", in particular, is a trainwreck, with Brian Lebarton forgetting the words and screaming his way through the peaks, completely missing the seething calm that is so disarming about Reed's addict on the original (his little chuckle gets me every time).But not all the makeovers are a downgrade. In the middle of the record, \"Run Run Run\" and \"All Tomorrow's Parties\" get electropop treatments that shouldn't work on paper, but do. The original \"Run Run Run\" always struck me as a jammy tossoff anyhow, and it's much improved by a simple drum loop and videogame rubber bass. The legendary \"All Tomorrow's Parties\" might be a harder sell, but with Magnusdottir doing Nico's ESL thing and spacey details that are pocketGodrich, it's a gorgeous reimagining.The project's other score is maybe its humblest, a simple, delicate \"I'll Be Your Mirror\" that is as reverent as it is pitchperfect. For all the Velvets' rep as the big scary black leather bondage and hard drugs band, it's a nice reminder that Reed could write an adorable pop song when he wanted, even if the \"reflect what you are\" backing vocals on the outro always creeped me. Less subversive creepiness here, but I maybe even (gasp) prefer the cover.So surprise surprise, the spontaneous albumcovering gimmick project is uneven and goofy. Much of the context that lifts The Velvet Underground & Nico to the top of many a music snob's favorite records list the anachronistic late1960s doom and gloom, the death drone, Nico herself aren't present here. And there's not really a replacement message, a musical theme to suggest why Beck chose this record. It may not be the cover album that inspires everyone who listens to start a cover band, but it's a fun, ambitious idea that turns up a handful of moments worth ripping off the Vimeo feed. "}