{"label":" ATO","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14469/homepage_large.6ed78dd8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Yim Yames","title":"Tribute To","text":" Ronnie, Duane, and heck, even Waylon; those are the hattips you'd expect from the lead singer and songwriter of widescreen country rockers My Morning Jacket. George Harrison, however? Hard to imagine he'd be anybody's first pick. He probably wasn't James', either, but in the days following Harrison's late 2001 death, James, his guitar, a reeltoreel, and precious little else got together to pay, well, Tribute To the quiet Beatle. It's a deeply passionate project, it would have you believe, and it's that passion that gets Tribute To past some of its sonic sameyness and slight sluggishness. But there's just no getting around the fact that these are inferior versions of, to be fair, brilliant recordings an inescapable fact James treats with delicacy.You cover the Beatles, and you're just asking for it; that combination of familiarity and fondness on the listener's part simply does not exist in the same way for any other band, and no matter what the song, your take immediately becomes one of hundreds. James smartly opts to work around the more obvious choices in the Harrison catalog; there's \"My Sweet Lord\", yeah, but there's no \"Here Comes the Sun\", \"While My Guitar Gently Sleeps\", or, mercifully, \"Got My Mind Set on You\". James doesn't exactly go way out there's nothing past 1970, despite Harrison's fairtogood track record through the rest of that decade but does favor album cuts with plenty of room for his searching, occasionally soaring voice: Revolver's sitarsoaked \"Love You To\", woozy White Album winder \"Long Long Long\", and several more from Harrison's solo opus All Things Must Pass. Though Harrison's tunes particularly the ones postRubber Soul, as he shook off the twangrock that characterized his earlier compositions are possessed with a wistful, longing quality, there's little thread holding the halfdozen tunes here together beyond their creator and an avoidance of anything above the midtempo. That puts the burden of cohesion on James.Comprised of little more than acoustic guitar and the swell of James' high, lonesome voice, Tribute To starts off plenty inviting, with a lovely cover of the loping \"Long, Long, Long\". The slight psychedelic gurgles in the original track are traded in for room sound and falsetto, and James does indeed sound more wounded on the track than we're used to after the ebullient onetwo of Z and Evil Urges. But then it's \"Behind That Locked Door\" itself a tribute to one Bob Dylan dressed up in much the same way, but devoid of the original's atmosphere of uplift and Harrison's tender (read: human) vocal. James has always seemed a very technical singer to me; he hits every beat, holds every note just so, and as often as the sound of his voice gets talked about, his expressiveness as a singer doesn't always match up, something Tribute To bears out. Not only does he sing these Harrison songs just like Jim James, but if you've spent any amount of time around either, what you're currently hearing in your head couldn't be closer to the truth.Tribute To is buoyed by \"Love You To\", which switches out sitar for banjo and stoned supplication for a slowlybuilding swoon, and a damn gorgeous strum through \"My Sweet Lord\", both of which find ways around their original counterparts' famed arrangements. But it closes out with a straightahead take on \"Ballad of Sir Frankie Crisp\" fine, but seemingly an excuse to let James get his voice around the \"let it roll\" exhortations that close it out and All Things Must Pass' title track, which James slows to the point of sluggishness by minute three. The everlanguid pace and James' familiar insistence on reverb which hangs heavy over nearly everything here weighs down Tribute To to the point where its 25 minutes feel far longer.Bear in mind, most My Morning Jacket fans will eat this up; James' voice is in top form, and after Evil Urges, this is certainly soothing. And it's tough to imagine any Beatlemaniac balking much, either; James avoids imitation, never devolves into parody, and shows a clear love of Harrison's work. Given the quick and dirty circumstances in which it was recorded and the somber mood over the proceedings, it'd help if Tribute To felt a little more, well, imbued with feeling; when you know James sings every song in essentially this manner, it loses a bit of its mournful luster. It's not that Tribute To isn't on some level deeply felt, but it's just not deeply considered, and while it's nice to hear James focused and playing to his strengths after the scattered Evil Urges, his tribute eventually loses the one thread it sets out to carry on its cover. These may be Harrison's songs, but here, the quiet Beatle gets crowded out by James and all his reverb. "}