{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14466/homepage_large.ead5e203.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"The Pastels / Tenniscoats","title":"Two Sunsets","text":" Longevity is the Pastels' strong suit; productivity isn't they've existed more or less continuously since their 1982 debut single, but aside from a remix disc and a soundtrack, this is the first album that's escaped from them in 12 years. This isn't quite a fullon Pastels album, either: it's a collaboration with the Japanese duo Tenniscoats, who were the ones who had the idea for the collaboration. (The Pastels apparently have an album of their own in the works, too, although it's been coming along very slowly for a while.)In the 90s, the Pastels were smart enough to realizing that becoming subcultural icons champions of C86! poster children of wideeyed amateurist innocent indieshabbychic! meant that they had to change what they did or risk being trapped in their adolescence forever. So they slowed way down and hazed way up on 1995's  Mobile Safari and 1997's Illumination, shifting their focus from pop thrills to blurry mindfulness exercises. The version of the band that turns up here (for longtime Pastelswatchers, they seem currently to be reduced to a duo of Stephen McRobbie and Katrina Mitchell) has gone even further down that path: the tempos here are so slow and the arrangements so spare that every note seems like a tentative step into toobright daylight.The only hint of the Pastels of two decades ago actually comes from \"Sodane\", one of the Tenniscoatsdirected songs there's a rare hint of urgency to its rhythm and a suggestion of Sittin' Pretty to its onefinger lead guitar part. Fortunately, Tenniscoats' aesthetic here mostly has more to do with with the Pastels as they are than as they were back in the days when a Pastels badge was the sign of membership in an indiepop sodality it's hard to tell which instrumental details come from which band, and Tenniscoats vocalist Saya's singing owes something to Mitchell's. (The fragment of melody that provides the hook of \"Yomigaeru\" involves a very Pastelslike stretch for notes that are probably somewhere in the vicinity of where Saya actually lands.)Sometimes, the result is as frail and lovely as worn lace; sometimes it's just threadbare. The danger of interband collaborations is that nobody takes responsibility for the project, and the track list here has been bumped up to a dozen with the help of a couple of halfformed instrumentals (\"Modesty Piece\" is an intro in search of a song that never quite gets there) and a pretty but relatively bythenumbers cover of \"About You\" by the Pastels' Glasgow homies the Jesus and Mary Chain.When Two Sunsets gels, though, its foggy shimmer is intermittently lovely. \"Vivid Youth\" isn't much more than a subtle guitar riff, Mitchell singing like she's just woken up and is still lying on something soft next to someone she likes a lot, and an offthecuff clarinet solo, but as textural songs go, it's warm, fluffy and fragrant. And the one song that actually sounds like both bands wrote it together is one of the album's highlights: \"Song for a Friend\", on which McRobbie, Mitchell and Saya exchange English and Japanese lyrics as if they're stepping up, one by one, to voice memories of a time that they understand better now than they did when it was happening. "}