{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14479/homepage_large.4d611c88.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Freddie Gibbs","title":"The Miseducation of Freddie Gibbs","text":" Gary, Indiana is a small, depressed steel town outside of Chicago, best known as the birthplace of music's Jackson family. The town has been hit by wave after wave of economic disaster, and when you drive through it today, it looks like a ruin. Here's how Gary rapper Freddie Gibbs describes the city on his song \"From the G\": \"Land of lost hope/ Clouds of mill smoke/ Community devoured by hard and soft dope.\"If beatendown regional defiance is one of rap's great animating forces, Gary is a great place to be from. On The Miseducation of Freddie Gibbs, the first of two very good mixtapes that Gibbs dropped this summer, he complains about not even being able to get on local Chicago radio. Sportswriters call that the \"nobody believed in us\" factor; when the world has written you off, you're that much more determined.Two years ago, Gibbs was signed to Interscope. He's not anymore, but he recorded a pretty hefty chunk of songs with the label. It's not too often that someone can arrive on the mixtape scene rapping over brandnew beats from expensive producers like Just Blaze or Polow da Don, but that's what's happening here. Gibbs has a hell of an ear for beats, and for a while he had access to some of the best producers working. The tracks he recorded in his time at Interscope are all over Miseducation and the even better Midwestgangstaboxframecadillacmuzik. And the tracks from unheard producers hold up. Sometimes they do more than hold up; \"Murder on My Mind\" is a bassheavy seasick lurch, one of the heaviest rap tracks of the year.More than most actual rap albums coming out these days, these two mixtapes have an actual identifiable sound, a varied but cohesive midtempo thump. Gibbs doesn't rap over other people's songs too often, and when he does, they're impeccably selected slices of vintage rap: \"93 Til Infinity\", say, or Goodie Mob's \"Black Ice\". Aesthetically, then, both tapes are as solid as you could possibly hope: Hard, cohesive longplayers with hints of the familiar but not enough to make it sound like cliche. They're really albums more than mixtapes, and they're exceptionally well puttogether albums at that.But all of this is secondary to Gibbs himself, who emerges as a very serious voice. Gibbs doesn't do anything on either tape to innovate formally. He doesn't resort to gimmickry or showy cleverness. He does one thing hard, unpretentious gangsta rap and he does it very, very well. Gibbs' voice is a strained, husky growl, one that occupies some of the same tough, honest ground as ZRo, say, or Young Buck. He switches in and out of doubletime speedrap almost effortlessly, sounding like he's fully internalized the tricky rhymeschemes of Midwestern forebears like Twista and Bone Thugs. He sings some of his own choruses in a deep, drawly singsong maybe not technically the greatest voice, but one better suited for conveying emotion than at least half the mercenary R&B hooksingers out there.And Jesus Christ he can rap. To really enjoy Gibbs, you have to be OK with the idea of rap songs that graphically chronicle the act of pimping women, in great detail including but not limited to what job your girl tells her mother she's working. This is rough, fiery stuff, but it's not entirely amoral. When Gibbs talks about the devastation of his hometown, he sounds seriously pained just like he does when he talks about sleeping in a sock drawer instead of a crib as a baby. Gibbs' threats resonate: \"I got a itchy trigger finger and the nuts of a elephant/ Knock the stuffing out your fuckin' muffin just for the hell of it.\" But so does his real talk: \"This ain't how I wanna live/ I dream about having kids / But I'm afraid that as they grow they won't see they daddy live.\" On \"World So Cold\", Miseducation's closer, he raps about the son he almost had, keeping the fact that the kid was stillborn as a devastating surprise ending. He's a ferocious rapper who can break your heart when you're not expecting it. He's the real thing.Rappers like Gibbs, messy streetrap classicists without crossoverpop instincts or easy marketing hooks, don't get to make albums for labels anymore. So Gibbs has made his own albums two within a few months of each other and put them out himself. With a little bit of Googling, you can download both for free. For every outoftouch gazillion rapper putting out a slab of sadness to a massive PR rollout, there's someone like Gibbs, cranking out great music without knowing whether the world will take notice. Guys like Freddie Gibbs are saving rap. "}