{"label":" Reprise / WEA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14478/homepage_large.c2121db0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Inglourious Basterds OST","text":" Quentin Tarantino generally sets his movies in the here and now. His characters, on the other hand, are typically some place else, defined at they are by their numerous and often anachronistic affectations, foremost among them an affinity for 1950s rock, 1970s soul, and AM pop. It's those songs that have thus far composed the bulk of Tarantino's classic soundtracks and provided his films many of their most indelible moments. Think Michael Madsen slicing ears to Stealers Wheel or Robert Forster cruising around listening to the Delfonics. Tarantino's approach changed, slightly, with his two Kill Bill installments, which featured RZA rubbing shoulders with recycled Ennio Morricone, but by Death Proof he was mostly back to his usual cratedigging ways.Yet even a filmmaker as audacious as Tarantino probably couldn't get away with pairing his first period flick, Inglourious Basterds, with another snap, crackle, and pop soundtrack. Needless to say, Kool and the Gang's \"Jungle Boogie\" just doesn't jibe with WWII Nazi hunting. But that's not to say Tarantino hews strictly to the straight and narrow, either. Tarantino again shuns an original score, but this time he picks and chooses the film's music selections specifically from a rolodex of forgotten Bmovie cues or clever cinematic injokes, a smart complement to a film concerned with movie making and its particular powers.The director's said he thinks of Basterds as a spaghetti western (albeit one set in Nazioccupied France), so he again utilizes relatively obscure Morricone to impose the maestro's trademark weird moods. Other composers of note include the great Lalo Schifrin, with the groovily melodramatic \"Tiger Tank\", and the lesserknown Jacques Loussier, represented here with the title theme to Dark Side of the Sun (which starred Rod Taylor, who crops up in Basterds as Winston Churchill). Even more obscure is the presence of tracks from Gianni Ferrio and Charles Bernstein, whose \"White Lightning\" comes from the forgotten 1973 Burt Reynolds flick (though not forgotten to Tarantino, who also drew on that soundtrack for Kill Bill).Of course, it wouldn't be a Tarantino film without a few pop songs, too, but here Tarantino branches out into fresh territory. Sure, Billy Preston's title theme from 1972's blaxploitation classic Slaughter crops up as a truncated (if still cool) instrumental clip. Beyond that, only a quartet of noninstrumentals appear in the film and on this attendant collection, three of them historically compatible and one of them totally leftfield despite its brilliant use in the film. One, \"Davon Geht Die Welt Nicht Unter\", is a song by Swedish Nazi collaborator (or, more generously, cooperator) Zarah Leander, who lived out her life a pariah for her participation in Hitler's UFA film studios. Another, \"Ich Wollt Ich Wär Ein Huhn\", comes from Willy Fritsch and Lilian Harvey, the latter of whom escaped under duress from Nazi Germany (her name earns a sneer from the onscreen Joseph Goebbels in Basterds). Last of the contemporaneous lot is Samantha Shelton & Michael Andrew's \"The Man With the Big Sombrero\", most notable in the movie for what goes down in a basement bar when the song ends with the stylus hypnotically hopping along the vinyl's inner edge.That leaves David Bowie's very out of place Giorgio Moroder collaboration \"Cat People (Putting Out the Fire)\", rescued from Paul Schrader's illconceived 1982 remake of the Jacques Tourneur masterpiece and repurposed to much superior effect here. It shouldn't work, but it does, mostly because Tarantino realized the track's darker undercurrents suited a pivotal sequence in his film a lot better than the ending credits of Schrader's risible flop, which was lost forever to all but late night cable viewers and obsessive video store clerks with good memories. That Tarantino stored the song somewhere in that trivia filled brain of his for all these years, waiting for the right moment to use it, is one of his gifts as a filmmaker. That he also shows such a knack for stringing together such disparate source material on his various soundtracks (here minus the usual betweentrack banter) is one of his gifts to us. "}