{"label":" Team Love","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14510/homepage_large.d53f2cfe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Shudder to Think","title":"Live From Home","text":" A new Polvo record. Jawbox reissues in the pipeline, and Sunny Day Real Estate reissues on the street. The justannounced Pavement reunion. The Jesus Lizard at the 2009 Pitchfork Music Festival. And now, a new Shudder to Think live record? Ninetiesme is totally stoked by the resurgence of decadeold stalwarts; throw in a few more key acts from that era and we're talking a total nerdgasm. (I'm looking at you, Jawbreaker.) All of this inevitably funnels down to a Blues Traveler reunion or something, so let's enjoy it while it lasts.Based in Washington, D.C., Shudder to Think was born in the mid1980s, a time when punk music was learning to handle shades of emotion beyond violent anger. Old dudes in combat boots will tell you that this stuff was called \"emo,\" if you can believe it. But even among emo bands, Shudder to Think were out there. They weren't confessional, unless you count lyrics like \"Poor little girl/ Screaming traffic in her hair,\" repeated neurotically in eerie falsetto, as confessional. And they seemed at least as indebted to Judy Garland and David Bowie as they were to Minor Threat and Government Issue.Shudder to Think's influences were a stretch even in the postpunk era. They pumped up their aggressively wrought artrock with healthy portions of glam and powerpop, garnished with show tunes and opera. Nathan Larson's intricate guitar leads were both wild and delicately patterned, like cracks in glass. When they leveled out into pounding waves of riffage, Craig Wedren's voice kept the fey dementia intact. Swerving recklessly from a queasy purr to a panicky vibrato, with a head full of tantrums, he seemed to always exist in the moment just before a terrible accident. He made hissyfits sound like airraids, sass like a veneer concealing a robust unwellness. Few guitarcentric bands have so deftly balanced the bruising, the fragile, the anthemic, and the bizarre.This live disc, culled from a 2008 reunion tour, is a terrific showcase for the band's sickly sweet brutality, which remains fearsome. Joining Wedren and Larson, both of whom play guitar, are drummer Kevin March, who joined the band after their 1994 masterpiece Pony Express Record, bassist Jesse Krakow, and guitarist Mark Watrous (that's right, it's a triguitar affair). They engage in a bit of canon revision: There's nothing from their mostly forgotten debut, Curses, Spells, Voodoo, Mooses, and only one song, \"Call of the Playground\", from their mainstreamaimed final album, 50,000 B.C. (Okay, there are two if you count \"Red House\", but it was originally released on an earlier album. That Shudder to Think thought a creepy powerpop number about psychedelic drugs was a good mainstream gambit says a lot about them.)Barring those omissions, it's evenly divided between their three influential Dischord albums Get Your Goat, Ten Spot, and Funeral at the Movies and Pony Express Record, on Epic. I get that people hated 50,000 B.C. including, apparently, Shudder to Think and/or Team Love, who fail to mention it in the press release but I wouldn't have minded hearing \"The Saddest Day of My Life\". Other painful omissions, like \"Earthquakes Come Home\", \"I Blew Away/Ride That Sexy Horse\", and \"Kissi Penny\" only stress Shudder to Think's consistent excellence. Most of their songs feel essential in some way. You really couldn't ask for a much better singledisc setlist than this, which covers fan favorites like \"Shake Your Halo Down\" and \"XFrench Tee Shirt\", while making a case for Shudder to Think's dynamic range, from the barreling \"Rag\" to the exquisitely gentle \"Day Ditty\". These days, Wedren's doing MORpop and soundtrack stuff, and Larson's doing A Camp, but they sound more inspired here than they have since... well, since they played these songs the first time. New album please. "}