{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14487/homepage_large.82bb6cb4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Amen Dunes","title":"DIA","text":" The fact that Damon McMahon (aka Amen Dunes) recorded DIA while holed up in a Catskills cabin is so fitting it feels like a myth. The album's claustrophobic, voiceinhead tone immediately evokes innerspace travelers like Syd Barrett, Roky Erickson, and Skip Spence. And McMahon's simple songs, fuzzy guitar, and buzzing vocals all sound like the product of some solitary brain, sitting in some isolated cabin, buried deep inside some dark forest.It's telling, though, that after he made DIA, McMahon moved to Beijing: as the album progresses, it reveals a musical vision reaching beyond the boundaries of a lonely woods. Early on, his stylistic umbrella expands to let in a Suicide/Spacemen 3 loop, the eerie howls of early Royal Trux, and the postBarrett folk of Robyn Hitchcock. But his farthestflung and strongest reference point proves to be the underground sounds of 1980s New Zealand. As McMahon's tunes sharpen and deepen, he becomes like an American cousin to Kiwi songsmiths Alastair Galbraith, Chris Knox, and brothers Graeme and Peter Jefferies.The key to how McMahon can evoke those greats and still bring some of himself to the mix is his voice. On the surface his singing sounds raw and monotone, pitched in a droning hum and distorted at the edges. But listen closely and you can hear subtle changes that give DIA a surprising diversity. On \"White Lace\", his singing rises sharply, pulling his guitar along with it. He alternates tough moans and eerie falsettos in the Barrettish \"Castles\", and ghosts of Knox and Galbraith emerge via his openly earnest croons in \"No Shot\". By album's end, McMahon's meditative hums are practically all that's left, like shells on a beaten shore glistening in the sunset.\"Glisten\" is a relative term here overall, DIA is still a rather constricted album, with a tonal range that's pretty narrow despite how much McMahon mines from it. But the record does hold indications of how wide his sound could become, particularly the perfectlycrafted bit of psychfolk called \"Two Thousand Islands\" that pops up near album's end. Here, his modest voice melds beautifully into some clucking, Velvet Undergroundish guitar. That alone is enough to make you look forward to what McMahon comes up with next, perched above a temple in Beijing rather than tucked away in a Northeastern woodland. "}