{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14495/homepage_large.d53eb53a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Mission of Burma","title":"The Sound the Speed the Light","text":" In their first goround in the early 1980s, Mission of Burma were equal parts innovation and perspiration. Their muscular postpunk was groundbreaking, but it also had a workmanlike quality. Maybe that's what made them unique Roger Miller, Clint Conley, and Peter Prescott always had their noses to the grindstone even when they were being visionary. Since reforming in 2002, Burma haven't been nearly as pioneering. But their hardtoiling side has not only persisted, it has expanded to fill in the gap.Of their three postreunion albums so far, The Sound the Speed the Light sounds the most industrious, the most like another day at the office. There's nothing surprising here, and some songs are so signaturestyled you might wonder if you've heard them before. But when it comes to office work, Burma's day beats most bands' years. So the lack of surprise also means a lack of flaws, and a lot of energy and power. When these guys punch the clock, they take the phrase literally.So yet another Burma album hits the ground running, this time with \"1,2,3 Partyy!\", a seriously fun song about how funny it is that someone would take partying seriously. That energy spills into \"Possession\", which swings between weightlifting pound and a wistful chorus, with lots of Miller guitar grit in between. Later, Conley's bass melodies and halfspoken lyrics turn \"Forget Yourself\" into a thoughtful semiballad. By time the anthemic \"SSL 83\" carries the record to its halfway point, it's been six straight unimpeachable tunes, forming an album side that rivals any Burma album side.It would've been easy to let The Sound cruise from there, filling it with solid alsorans. But the energy level and commitment continue unabated. Two songs in particular stand out. \"So Fuck It\", with its raucous beat and Miller guitar pyrotechnics, captures the band's mix of introspection and machismo perfectly: \"I often wonder what I'm worth/ But I won't take shit from you or anyone else/ So fuck it!\" Closer \"Slow Faucet\" combines Burma's trademark crescendos with stretches of slowburning guitar, evoking Sonic Youth's more meditative moments.The fact that Burma seems physically unable to take so much as a note off is inspiring, but also a little depressing imagine all the great music we must have missed during their twodecade hiatus, because they surely would've worked hard at making it. But maybe they would've gotten jaded, stale, or just plain tired if they had played the indie rock game for 20 years. Either way, seven years into their second life, Mission of Burma keep attacking their music like they're lucky to be playing it for everyone again. Given all the hard work that went into The Sound the Speed the Light, the converse is even more true. "}