{"label":" Nettwerk","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14505/homepage_large.ec8411dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Hope Sandoval & the Warm Inventions","title":"Through the Devil Softly","text":" Listen to the staggering, dusty lope of \"Trouble\", and you might think you'd stumbled upon a lost Mazzy Star track from that band's peak in the mid1990s. Which makes sense Hope Sandoval was the singer for Mazzy Star, and she keeps the aesthetic of that band very much alive in this, her second soloish effort since her old band stopped early this decade. Her accomplice in the absence of David Roback is My Bloody Valentine drummer Colm Ó Cíosóig, who essentially is the Warm Inventions, as was the case on their 2001 debut, Bavarian Fruit Bread.Through the Devil Softly is a quietly enveloping listen, and Sandoval's decision not to get too far from the sound of her former band is a wise one. Her husky voice and worndown delivery are perfectly served by this open, reverbheavy, and downtrodden background. You get the sense of her wandering through some abandoned, former goldrush town, singing quietly to herself as the tumbleweeds bounce by. For his part, Ó Cíosóig is about a million miles from the extreme density and closemic'd immediacy of My Bloody Valentine, and he embraces the change in his languid drumming on the record (he plays other instruments and coproduces with Sandoval as well). The two give themselves a palette of guitar, banjo, and occasional vibes, keyboard, or cello to build Sandoval's landscapes, which are variably interesting.One of the most interesting textures is found on \"For the Rest of Your Life\", which sounds constructed on a loop of an echoing, muted pick slide on the E string of a guitar. Sandoval floats over the top with some vibes and sparse flashes of electric guitar, and as the song fades after the verses it sounds as if it's wandering off into a void. The void is never far away on this record. Even at its warmest, there are ghosts in the air and cobwebs in the corners, as on the single \"Blanchard\", which opens the album with the interplay of a shimmering guitar phrase and distant, wordless vocal. The banjo plucking on \"Fall Aside\" and \"Blue Bird\" is slow and wobbly, and Ó Cíosóig offers a barely audible vocal on \"Lady Jessica and Sam\" in the form of a slow, low moan that shadows Sandoval's weary verse.They take the distance to an extreme on muffled closer \"Satellite\", which is filtered to sound as if it's creaking out of the speakers after traveling for light years on the back of a radio wave. It opens and closes with the sound of waves on a beach. It's a pretty end for a pretty record, one that will put Mazzy Star fans in a comfortably familiar place and will probably just feel comfortable to everyone else. There's no real standout track no \"Fade Into You\" for this decade but it's a good listen while it lasts, a thing of slow, sad grace. "}