{"label":" Slumberland","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14499/homepage_large.518950bb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"The Pains of Being Pure at Heart","title":"Higher Than the Stars EP","text":" In his review of the title track from this album, Tom Breihan did us all a great service by disallowing the use of the term \"lofi\" with regard to the Pains of Being Pure at Heart. From the start, folks threw around that phrase when discussing the group mostly because their early material put a light wash of textural guitars on their otherwise melancholy indie pop, but, really, it was a garnish and not the main course. At their core, Pains aren't about scuzz or even shoegaze, they're a classic bookish indie pop band twee, you might even say and Higher Than the Stars, an EP of four new songs and one excellent remix, drives that point home very clearly.In addition to helping clear up misconceptions about the group's M.O., Higher Than the Stars also marks a small but important aesthetic shift for Pains. On their selftitled debut from earlier this year, the band worked within a pretty specific strain of indiepop from the mid80s and drew heavily from the hazy guitar pop of early My Bloody Valentine and C86 acts like Shop Assistants. But this EP demonstrates a tweaking of that sound that falls more in line with the cleaner approach of late80s Sarah Records bands, most notably the Field Mice. That may seem like a minor distinction, but it helps to show Pains not as period fetishists, but instead a group of indiepop aesthetes who seem to be able to operate comfortably within several different subdivisions of the genre.The song that most exemplifies this altered formula is the EP's title cut, \"Higher Than the Stars\", which is noteworthy not only for its gloss but the assurance with which it bounces along its twinkling synths, crisp guitar strums, and longing vocals all hitting at the right moments. I'd put it right up there with \"Come Saturday\" and \"Young Adult Friction\" as one of the best tracks in Pains' catalogue so far. Though perhaps not quite as dazzling, \"Falling Over\" is equally crisp, and also puts a greater emphasis on rhythm and synths (keyboardist Peggy WangEast's playing is confident throughout) and works as a sappy ballad about the uncertainty of a potential new love. Frontman Kip Berman's sadsack tenderness could be irritating here if it didn't sound so great, as he shields himself from hurt, singing, \"Don't you, don't you touch me... I'd fall over for you,\" in his most convincing fauxBritish accent to date.The two tracks that stand out as different from the pack here are \"103\" and the Saint Etienne remix of \"Higher Than the Stars\", the former a holdover from the time of the selftitled LP's recording and more in line with that style. (It's pleasant enough but probably the slightest of the batch.) The Saint Etienne remix, though, is fantastic, stretching the original's four minutes to nearly seven of the kind of tropical dancepop the group is famous for. It also makes for an interesting complete circle here, since Saint Etienne associate Ian Catt also produced the Field Mice (whose influence, again, is clear on this EP) in the 80s, and SE covered the Field Mice's \"Let's Kiss and Make Up\". Saint Etienne's cosign on the wouldbe torchbearers for this style is high praise indeed. It also further emphasizes the argument this EP makes, which is that Pains could be the most promising indie pop group around. "}