{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14501/homepage_large.44cb0cf5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Islands","title":"Vapours","text":" When Jamie Thompson and Nick Diamonds started their second postUnicorns collaboration the first was Th' Corn Gangg, remember? it made perfect sense that they should call it Islands. With breezy calypso rhythms, honeyed countryacoustic guitars, bubbly/silly synthesizer effects, and summery melodies, their debut, Return to the Sea, was a wonderful getaway soundtrack, obscuring its deathhaunted lyrics with bright arrangements and rich, coconutscented production. On Islands' second album, however, storm clouds descended: Arm's Way found the band down a member Thompson amicably departed before its recording yet ballooned into a sixpiece, and the bloat was audible. Melodies (previously the shivery highlight of their songs) were buried in meandering guitar solos, baroque, melodramatic strings, and gloomy, silvery keyboards for a dark, proggy effect that bled the band of much of its fun and levity.The good news is that the clouds seem to have parted; on their third album, Islands are sunny once more. Perhaps it's due to the return of Thompson, back in the fold after his onealbum hiatus, or just a product of stripping the instrumentation down to its most basic structure (in many cases, just synths, drums, and guitar) in service of memorable tunes, but Islands have made a welcome return to form. While those hoping for Return to the Sea's AfroCaribbean flourishes and guest rappers will be disappointed, Vapours' comparably spare synthpop is replete with the juicy hooks and majorkey bounce that were so lacking from their last effort.The album kicks off with \"Switched On\"'s repetitive shimmying guitar figure, squishy 1980s synths, and swooning, hiccuping vocals. The title track struts like a peacock, showing off a big, swaggering chorus (\"It's the bassline in your mind/ It's a sexy way to cry/ You know I've had my share of doubt/ Until I saw the vapours in your eyes\") over a fouronthefloor stomp and brassy, confident horns. And \"Tender Torture\" is not only the most lyrically literal interpretation of Islands' earlier beachy ethos but also, with its whirring suctioncup synth effects and gooey \"ooohs,\" the apex of their futuristically sweet sound. That's not to say Islands have given up their penchant for darkness after all, we're talking about guys whose main lyrical concerns have long been bones and ghosts. Moody numbers like \"No You Don't\" with its spare percolating keyboards and lyrics that warn, \"Don't buy dope from a man you don't know\" still abound. But built as they are on tightly wound mechanical beats and free of rococo arrangements, these murkier moments feel more visceral for their restraint.What made Islands' debut so thrilling (and saved Arm's Way from its grandiose ambitions) was the expansive, creative way they wrapped up their classic pop hooks in unexpected instrumentation or imaginative production. And Vapours, though more stripped down than either of its predecessors, continues in that tradition. Surely, many criticisms of the album will include a mention of Islands' AutoTuned \"Heartbeat\", but with organic, galloping guitars and whimsical synth flourishes underscoring their most vulnerable vocal melody, Diamonds' mechanized voice adds a dash of synthetic style and keeps things from devolving into the realm of the overly sentimental. Though there is an overall whiff of the 1980s about Vapours, it sidesteps the traps of either sounding trendily vintage or indistinguishable from the rest of today's Reaganera impostors. It works best, however, to think of the album as a return to Return to the Sea, only, as its title suggests, in a hazier, less opaque form. It's as if that album's liquidy tracks have evaporated, leaving only wispy traces of synthesizer melodies and quirky pop choruses wafting through the air. "}