{"label":" IAMSOUND","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14490/homepage_large.e506e149.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Fool's Gold","title":"Fool's Gold","text":" The furious and unfortunate dissection of authenticity that came part and parcel with the rise of Vampire Weekend made for good copy for all of two weeks. It quickly became a groaner. But it persists as that band's profile grows. And so now any band that follows and is sufficiently infused with Afropop influence sunny guitar, rattles, djembe, etc. carries the burden of comparison, derision, and, for shame, trendhumping.Fool's Gold probably aren't thrilled about this. Guitarist and songwriter Lewis Pesacov has been quietly filtering his obsession with African music into the songs of his other band, sunsmacked L.A. rockers Foreign Born, for two solid, underrated albums. Foreign Born's \"Early Warnings\" is the apex of that subtle evolution, and the highlight of this year's Person to Person. With Fool's Gold, a side project that could emerge as the more viable of the two bands, Pesacov, with Israelborn singer/songwriter Luke Top (and a rotating cast from bands like We Are Scientists, Glasser, the Fall, and Foreign Born), gives himself over entirely to his muse. The sounds of Touareg and Afrobeat and Ghanaian Highlife are rippling through the eight songs here, each a rollicking, warm reflection of appreciation. Pesacov has eradicated questions about authenticity by composing gorgeous odes to forbearers like Ali and Vieux Farka Touré, Tinariwen, and Konono N°1.There is a catch that makes this something less than out and out replication. Opener \"Surprise Hotel\" all pinging guitar lines and handslapped drums sounds like the kind of thing filmmaker Jonathan Demme would drop onto one of his \"worldconscious,\" rubbernecking soundtracks. And then Luke Top begins to sing. At first it feels like a tribal chant. Which, of course it is. Only not the tribe you're thinking of. Top, a fullthroated, melismatic vocalist, sings nearly every song in Hebrew. There is something initially shticky about this watch as cultures collide! But there is also something natural about the tones, the ohhs and ahhs, and the swaying force of each lyric that Top offers. There's an added value to much of the lyrical obfuscation, too: Top isn't much of a lyricist. That his words are hidden behind what will be largely indecipherable to most listeners is a plus. The lyrics to each song are printed in English in the liners of Fool's Gold, and they reveal a pretentious streak. From the halfsung in English \"Momentary Shelter\": \"A mind of night is mine/ A frozen light imbibes/ The darkness is boiling/ Your skin in the moonlight.\"Still, this is ultimately Pesacov's show. The two transcendent moments of this album come in succession: The first is the yearning \"Nadine\", a brass band raveup that is equal parts celebratory and mournful; the second is the expansive \"Ha Dvash\", which plays like a narcotized recreation of Talking Heads' experiments in familiar territory on Remain in Light. Top isn't frantic like David Byrne, and so while the song is less an advance on the sound, it's a fusion that, in some ways, fits better. And so maybe Fool's Gold can dodge some cultural reduction along the way. "}