{"label":" Planet E","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14497/homepage_large.00ff5e72.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Carl Craig","title":"69: The Legendary Adventures of a Filter King","text":" You probably won't be able to find a copy of this. In fact, you probably have more people on your Facebook friends list than there are copies of this floating around out there. For one thing, it's a vinylonly, 5x12\" release. For another, it reissues material few beyond techno freaks heard the first time around, in such a way that even fewer people are going to be able to hear it now. I'm of two minds about this. On the one hand, it's quasiminimalist, breakbeatdriven technofunk, designed to be mixed. So the format, at least, makes sense. Even Craig's releases as 69 avoid his lateera repetition through their cutup synth riffage, alternating between sandpaper raw and newage relaxed, and unpredictably looped breaks, they're still designed to be diced hard between two turntables.It's the availability that rankles. Filter King finally collects some of Craig's best work, out of a large and hard to track down catalog. 69 tracks like \"Desire\" sound AOK at home, treating the calloused functionalism of firstwave hiphouse to a warm, salted bath in Detroit keyboards. Far be it from me to tell the man how he should administer his own music, but a wider release even if not on CD and/or digital wouldn't feel quite so... alienatingly cultish.Because this is not difficult music. Craigas69 was about the overlap between the rave's peak and the postclub latenight drive, the \"innerspace journeys\" rhetoric of techno and the crowdpleasing bumpiness of urban radio from multiple eras. \"Jam the Box\" is so unpretentiously rugged I wouldn't have been surprised to hear it in a Baltimore club music mix. On the other end of the 69 spectrum, \"Microlovr\" is as spectrally wiggy as anything on Warp between the bleep era and the wilderness period of Autechreian overprogramming. But crucially there's always a bodyrock undertow that stuff often abjured.As a collection, Filter King is allthingstoallpeople for fans of the \"funky and proud\" side of electronic dance. Technoidentified stuff in the aughts still has plenty to recommend it, but I'd take the lowres wallop of Filter King over the perfectly sculpted sleekness of crosscontinental newmillennium minimalism nine times out of 10. Sure, compared to the bitesized editing of Hawtin school graduates, the antic beat to \"Frequency Finale\" sounds like Toni Basil's \"Mickey\" with two poppers jammed up its nostrils. That's why it's so fun.As someone who's mostly immune to the dry, deadening arpeggios of Craig's muchlauded 21stcentury remix work, I appreciated the reminder of a time when he could swing, or get dumb, so effortlessly. Again, you want to deduct points for restricting the music to obsessives, but like those hardcore bands still releasing seveninches (and Jim O'Rourke), Craig's decision can be read as a bracing fuckyou to all those .rar blogs. "}