{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1338/homepage_large.c5fa3a91.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Catheters","title":"Static Delusions and Stone-Still Days","text":" Classifieds.com returned 6 results for search term\"The Catheters.\" Displaying results 16.DRUMMER WANTED for Chapel Hillarea punkinflected hardrock band. Screamy, youngIggyPoplike vocals. Twin guitar heavyriff attack. Main influences: And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead, The Catheters, Queens of the Stone Age. Must have exceptional drumrolling skills and total disdain for loud/soft dynamics. Band already booked for regular gig at Jack's Saloon & Fishhouse, as well as appearance at the Wilmington Cherry Festival. Practice space a bonus.(86%)I SAW YOU at The Catheters show at the Bottom of the Hill last Saturday night. You: short dyedblack hair, black tank top, tight jeans & belt with chrome highlights, Ramones tattoo on right arm. Me: red hooded sweatshirt, messy blond hair, backpack with Black Rebel Motorcycle Club patch. We stood next to each other near the bar; did you notice me? I could've sworn we were fistpumping in unison during the guitar solo of \"Build a Home,\" and I tried to start a conversation during the band's only song with significant suboverdrive portions, \"Clock on the Wall,\" but kept getting drowned out by the chorus. Suffice to say, \"I Fall Easy\" want to get together sometime? (62%)FOR SALE: vintage, barelyused medical equipment. Scalpels, forceps, sutures, hemostats, syringes, etc. the catheters are like new. Don't worry all items sterilized thoroughly with soap and water. No questions asked. (58%)MAKE EASY MONEY AT HOME! Want to earn money using your creative skills without leaving the comfort of your home? Let our easy seminar teach you how! Thousands of small, independent music labels can't afford to hire their own PR personnel, so they need people like YOU to help them write press releases for their bands' latest albums! All you have to learn is three easy rules: Play up the positive, Omit the negative, and making sense is Optional! Take the following example, describing Sub Pop artist The Catheters: \"The Catheters take you on a blistering death ride through the apocalyptic 'New York City is burning' imagery of '3000 Ways' and the woozy stoner crunge of 'Bleary Haze.' Hearkening back to a time when real men wore leather jackets, Budweiser was the beer of choice, rock clubs had writing on the walls and bathrooms were biohazard zones, The Catheters put the rock back in IROC!\" See how easy it is! Call now, to get your informational packet and free instructional videotape! (52%)SWF SEEKING SBM: I'm tired of dating rock 'n' roll men and their unsexy musical tastes, be they hangdog acoustic guitar journalwriters, idealistic freezedriedBeatles microwave meals, or choking on their own androgen ampworshippers like The Catheters. I need to be romanced away by music with soul and sex appeal; music that I can swing my hips to, not just nod my head at the appropriate speed. Take me away from these selfobsessed white boys and their paranoid obsession with sixstringed phallic symbols. I'm yours. (52%)FOR SALE: review copy of The Catheters' Static Delusions and StoneStill Days album, only played through a handful of times. Sub Pop quartet's sound falls somewhere between the hioctane intellimetal that put their label on the map and that nofrills, nokeyboards, distortionpedal guitar band sound that the kids are ennuiing to these days. No doubt, the album hits on certain levels the proceedings are recorded with the appropriate amount of fuzz, and tracks like \"Nothing\" and \"Endless Avenues\" have sharp (if familiar) hooks. And while singer Brian Standeford's ceaseless yowling gets on my nerves by album's end, I've got to admit he's got a certain sweaty charisma. Basically, it's an okay effort that's not really my cup of tea, and I'm looking to give it a good home that will give it the love and appreciation it deserves. 99 cents. (42%) "}