{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14521/homepage_large.8cb6a2f0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Nick Cave and Warren Ellis","title":"White Lunar","text":" The soundtrack is a curious artform. Where most other art is in some way primary, an experience of its own, an original film score is secondary it serves something larger. For this reason, a lot of soundtrack music doesn't stand on its own absent the film. It simply isn't meant to do that. Nick Cave and Warren Ellis, longtime collaborators in the Bad Seeds, understand this their collaborative film scores are sensitive to the needs of scene and character, but they also create scores so richly textured and evocative that they work divorced from their films.White Lunar gathers two discs' worth of the pair's soundtrack work, as well as four short archival instrumentals named for craters on the moon. The work is understandably different from what they do in the Bad Seeds, hewing closer to Ellis' other band, the Dirty Three. The discs divide the music thematically: Disc One contains pieces from the scores of John Hillcoat's The Proposition (2005), Andrew Dominik's The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford (2007), and Hillcoat's asyet unreleased adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's The Road; Disc Two is filled with more undertheradar work, including the four archival pieces, music from Geoffrey Smith's 2007 documentary The English Surgeon, a film about Dr. Henry Marsh's work training Ukrainian neurosurgeons, and music from Matthew Watson's recent documentary The Girls of Phnom Penh, which follows three Cambodian sex workers in an attempt to reveal the country's \"virginity trade.\"Absent any particularly uplifting subject matter, the discs naturally adopt an elegiac tone, dominated by sparse piano and Ellis' often thrilling violin playing. The first disc is remarkably unified, playing almost like a long album in spite of the three sources. The sixminute \"Song for Bob\", which features Ellis layered into a whole string section and accompanied by nothing more than a bit of bass and piano, captures the essence of the inner conflict of a man confronted by the ugly reality of a man he idolized, while the theme from Jesse James is pensive and lovely. The Proposition theme features hard scraping from Ellis over a sickly drone, building a tone of dread for the violence to come. A couple of vocal songs stick out \"Gun Thing\" is so understated, the vocals barely feel different from an instrument, but Cave's wounded croak does much for \"The Rider Song\". He whispers sinisterly on \"The Rider No. 2\", doubling himself with muted singing as the music squeals queasily around him, but the duo eases back a bit on the next track, \"Martha's Dream\", where Ellis quotes an old Dirty Three song in the second half.Obviously, it's impossible to say yet how well the music from The Road matches the tone of the film, but if this is any indication, it will be bleak, beautiful, and deliberate. I confess I've not seen the documentaries scored on Disc Two, but Cave and Ellis have developed a distinctive soundtrack voice that carries over into these films. The English Surgeon features a clutch of brief, gently shifting soundscapes led by solo violin, certainly much prettier than titles like \"Brain Retractor\" and \"Rat's Tooth Forceps\" might imply (though the latter has a nervous undercurrent of overdubbed violin). Phnom Penh is more varied: \"Srey Leak\" is an eerie, creeping intro to the disc, and \"Me Nea\" is an emotionally collapsed short piece. Finally, the four archival pieces reveal some of the pair's textural explorations \"Magma\" is the most interesting, featuring Ellis singing, pitchshifted and layered into something alien and only fleetingly recognizable as a voice.Cave and Ellis clearly share an aesthetic sympathy that allows them to key in together on the emotional undertow of their subjects, crafting haunting atmospheres to reflect the sweeping cinematography of the feature films they soundtrack as well as the inner lives of the documentary subjects. So does it hold up on its own? Mostly, it does. This doesn't eclipse their nonsoundtrack work by any stretch of the imagination, and it occasionally lapses into texture that longs for its visual component, but by and large it's an involving listen that telegraphs a sense of emotional and geographic space. It's good to have it all in one place. "}