{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14527/homepage_large.8dab303d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"7 Worlds Collide","title":"The Sun Came Out","text":" The Sun Came Out, the second release by the nebulous entity called 7 Worlds Collide, is the musical equivalent of vacation snapshots. Crowded House resident Neil Finn invited a supergroup's worth of artists from the UK and America to convene over the Christmas holidays at his New Zealand studio and record an album for charity. Members of Wilco and Radiohead made the trip, along with KT Tunstall, Lisa Germano, Johnny Marr, and a handful of Australian and New Zealand artists. They had three weeks to complete as much as possible, and while that may seem like a long sojourn, it's a fast turnaround when there are 20 musicians coming in and out, some of them bringing finished songs to record but most of them writing as they go. Finn, however, kept it lowkey by promising proceeds to Oxfam and by inviting the artists' families along. He even included his own musical brood: his wife Sharon, sons Liam and Elroy, and brother Tim all played on the album. Even Spencer Tweedy, Jeff's teenage son, gets a credit.This isn't the first time Neil Finn has played cruise director. In 2001, he assembled some of the same personnel for a series of concerts and a live double album benefiting Doctors Without Borders. Eight years later, he's grown even more ambitious, and what might have been a slapdash studio effort instead comes across as polished, professional, and cohesive. Of course, like almost every double album, The Sun Came Out would work better at half the length, weeding out the meandering instrumental \"3 Worlds Collide\" along with some of the less effective folkpop iterations, such as \"Duxton Blues\" by Augie March singer Glenn Richards and Bic Runga's \"Change of Heart\". Jeff Tweedy's \"You Never Know\" was rerecorded for Wilco (The Album), and this version forgoes the George Harrison guitar fireworks but retains the Sly Stone oohshasha rhythms, losing some of its rockhistorical humor and authority in the process. His other contribution, \"What Could Have Been\", fits better on this album, with his measured vocal and Finn's sensitive guitarwork.The album features several unlikely singers, including Wilco's John Stirratt and Pat Sansone and former Soul Coughing bass player Sebastian Steinberg, but the real headline so far seems to be, PHIL SELWAY SINGS... AND HE'S NOT HALF BAD. The Radiohead drummer wrote two numbers: the gentle \"Ties That Bind\" and the subdued singalong \"Witching Hour\", both of which show off his ear for subtle melodic hooks and his arcing, textured voice. He outdoes some of the more professional singers, including the Mutton Birds' Don McGlashan, who at his best sounds like an indierock Mike Scott but doesn't have especially good songs to sing.On the recommendation of Glenn Kotche, Finn invited KT Tunstall down to Auckland as well, and she turns out to be one of the project's most spirited participants. While she's often dismissed as a bland popAmericana artist from the Michelle Branch school, her Scottish cowgirl vocals and easy way with a chorus enliven her upbeat \"Hazel Branch\" and her downbeat \"Black Silk Ribbon\", a duet with New Zealand singersongwriter Bic Runga. Sharon Finn proves a playful foil for her husband on the duet \"Little by Little\", and Lisa Germano almost steals the album by leading everyone through a singalong on the standout \"Reptile\". Even though she plays violin on several tracks here, she still seems underutilized.The Sun Came Out, whether intentionally or not, is an album for singers, but often it's the music that elevates the songs and prevents even the slickest moments from falling into the AOR mire. Kotche and Steinberg form a solid rhythm section on numerous tracks, while pretty much anyone who's not singing lead is singing backup that ranges from the full choir of \"Reptile\" to the strange whispers on \"The Ties That Bind\". Ed O'Brien conjures Marc Bolan on the opening glam chords of \"Bodhisattva Blues\", sharing vocals with Finn, and Tweedy adds a jostling guitar solo to Finn's \"All Comedians Suffer\". More than even the surprising vocal turns, that sense of giveandtake between the musicians makes The Sun Came Out more than just a collection of castoffs for charity. It could be a real band here, albeit one that needs an editor. "}