{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14540/homepage_large.842365cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Times New Viking","title":"Born Again Revisited","text":" There's a note on the back cover of Times New Viking's Rip It Off I'd never noticed until the other day. \"Mixed & fucked by TNV and Matt Horseshit,\" it reads, that last bit referring to the Columbus trio's überpessimistic pal and Psychedelic Horseshit frontdude (with a nod to Columbus noise linchpin Mike Rep Hummel). You pick up on the \"fucked\" pretty quick when you're listening to Times New Viking; of this newish lofi crop, they're the finest melodicists by some margin, melodies they're more than willing to step on in service of the skronk. But there's no such note on Born Again Revisited, the band's fourth, nor is there Rip It Off's urging to \"please play loud.\" Indeed, Born Again Revisited is Times New Viking's highestfidelity album to date, an intentional playing down of the things that've made them among the leading lights of this nebulous, seemingly dwindling movement. Whatever their motives, Born Again Revisited finds these old pros hanging out in the red, further refining their sound to buck the trends that have built up around them.Because they take such pains to obscure vocals, blow out drums, make one guitar sound like 40, and generally do everything in their power to piss off your speakers, it's easy to miss what sharp, funny, selfdeprecating songwriters Times New Viking can be, a failing Born Again Revisited seems hellbent on solving. Ignoring their obvious gifts as tunesmiths is just a touch harder here, as practically everything's been given a bit more space to itself, the enveloping crunch of Rip It Off replaced with a fizzy, reedy haze that puts a tad more focus on the songs themselves. Although every Times New Viking release to date has sported at least one truly knockout tune, the highs here might be the band's most dizzying yet.There's shitgaze anthem \"No Time, No Hope\", one of the year's catchiest bumouts a little organdriven fury propelled by Beth Murphy and Adam Elliott's weirdly complimentary vocals and a burst of pure energy. There's the streaky \"Move to California\" a maudlin request if there ever was one middlefi in its production and resigned in its apparent yearning. And there's the 12 of the plaintive, beautiful Murphyled \"These Days\" and the ripcord Rollins dedication \"(No) Sympathy\", the band's single finest stretch on wax. All four tunes and a few others besides, like the weary, hilariously titled \"2/11 Don't Forget\" take the obvious pleasures of Rip It Off's \"(My Head)\" and \"Faces on Fire\", strip back some of the peal, turn the sloganeering outward and turn up the lyrical detail, and emerge triumphant. Erm, as triumphant as a song called \"No Time, No Hope\" can be, I suppose.Beyond a slight downward nudge of the volume knob, the biggest difference between Born Again Revisited and its predecessors is a lean towards the punk side of poppunk; the tempos are by and large faster, the shoutalong choruses more shibboleth and slightly less stoney, the little flashes of melody harder to grasp. Elements of either have shown themselves all over the TNV discography, but whereas on Rip It Off they'd fill in the gaps between the big numbers with sketches of pop tunes generally little more than an organ bleat, a guitar rumble, and Beth Murphy's wail, but insidiously catchy nonetheless here they're filling the space with scrappy little screamers that seem to pass by faster than even their brief runtimes. It's a pretty good look not far in spirit from the 10 terrific, tumultridden minutes of last year's Stay Awake EP. There's still a great deal of melody, and small moments the steamy organ crunch on the title track, the slap of Adam Elliott's drum on woozy singalong \"Half Day in Hell\" stand out, but the peaks tower over the valleys here, and as such, the album's internal logic occasionally feels wonky, lopsided. Whereas Rip It Off, after the initial learning curve, was a fairly easy album to sink into, Born Again Revisited is lumpier, dodgier, and in some ways even more fucked.Good on them, you know? Now would've been a pretty good time for Times New Viking to crank out a mess of beery bouncers or thinlyveiled Clean covers and let that Matador money roll in. But that's pretty much exactly what Born Again Revisited isn't. Instead, we've got yet another standoffishly catchy, completely uncompromising bit of burnout ephemera from a band that predates a revived trend I'm certain they feel themselves outside of. Born Again Revisited is a deeply rewarding record and a worthy entry in a pretty stellar catalog, sure, but coming at a time when everybody's fucking up their tunes and only a few are really doing it well, it's reassuring to know we weren't silly for getting excited about this stuff all over again. "}