{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14542/homepage_large.4cd15d35.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Beastie Boys","title":"Hello Nasty [Deluxe Edition]","text":" Even more so than career highpoint Paul's Boutique, Hello Nasty tries to squeeze in every interesting record, old or new, that passed through the Beastie Boys' orbit at its time of recording. So why is one album considered a masterpiece while the other belongs in the bottom end of the band's catalog, just above the tedious instrumental EPs and secondrate hardcore? For one thing, Hello Nasty lacks the energy of almost every other Beasties album. It's got all these sounds to work with, that littlebitofeverything agglomeration that characterized the late1990s underground's listening habits: electro, drum'n'bass, lounge, folk, turntablism, tropicalia, dub. Basically anything you'd find in the collection of a given member of Tortoise. But the further the album strays from straightup hiphop, the less excited it sounds to do anything with these new influences.That makes it sound like a chore, and it is, albeit intermittently. At 22 tracks, Hello Nasty is less boundarypushing, carefully collaged risktaking than the excess that comes from unlimited home studio time and no fear of mercenary label owners or turncoat audiences. \"Song for the Man\" is the first real evidence of the trio's slide into overextended, selfsatisfied slackness. When you take the kitchensink approach to making an album, you better make damn sure you bring your Agame to each idea you try. It's not like the Beasties lacked the chops or wit to turn \"Song for the Man\" into something worth listening to. And there's nothing wrong with froth for frat boys, provided there's a hook. But this littletoolaidback hiphop lite is barely a song. Even the Beastie's postPaul's instrumental funk noodles had more bite.It sounds all the weaker coming from a band whose prime draw was a exuberance, even mania. Sounding lazy rather than effortless or playful is a bad look for any band especially when you've previously prided yourself on proving a don'tgiveafuckattitude is compatible with hardcore studio experimentation and pop savvy. If the Beasties anticipated so much of the cutandpaste hiphop sound on Paul's Boutique, then why does their contribution to the downtempo glut, passably whimsical instrumental interlude \"Sneakin' Out the Hospital\", sound less like elders schooling their disciples than three aging magpies trying to keep up with the Ninja Tunes and Mo' Waxes?Elsewhere, the Beasties fall into the usual traps that beset smart dudes with wide ears, a lot of heart, and plenty of industry clout: gonowhere studio trickery (murky mumblefest \"Flowin' Prose\"); eyerolling heartonsleeve earnestness (MCA channeling George Harrison's high guru era on \"I Don't Know\"); and of course your standard case of guest staritis. If you can make it through the starstruck Boys' inability to reign in Lee \"Scratch\" Perry's ramblings on \"Dr. Lee, PhD\", well, you've got a stronger stomach for superstars kowtowing to their heroes than I do.The good bits tend to stick to what the Beasties do best hyperactive rhymelobbing with more bad puns than a MAD magazine subeditor and a brainmelting overload of one popcult ref after another with a premillennium dancefloor sheen. Thankfully premillennium dancefloors some of them, at least were increasingly in thrall to the recycled rigidity of oldschool electro. So you get the Beasties keeping current by referencing the sounds that reared them when they were hiphop obsessed hardcore kids. Unsurprisingly, the Boys rarely fumble when playing with a sound they'd been loving and perfecting over a decade.It was also lest we forget the era of dunderheaded big beat and jungle's last gasp of crowdpleasing jumpup dumbness. The Beasties were clearly trawling New York's import bins in the months before they laid down Hello Nasty, making the livefromLondon remixes of tracks like Fatboy Slim's rework of \"Body Movin'\" (included on the bonus disc) almost superfluous. The original album tracks have all of the clubcentric subgenres' antic energy, plus plenty of trademark Beasties stupiduntogenius wordplay to make them more than dance comp filler. AdRock rhyming, \"I'm the king of Boggle/ There is none higher\" with \"quagmire\" tends dangerously close to both being showoffy and plain cringeworthy. But I'm smiling as I roll my eyes, so I guess he wins.Elsewhere things get odder, less predictable in the good way. \"The Negotiation Limerick File\" and \"Electrify\" don't fit the partyhard schema, but they're good reminders of the sonic diversity of the era's notquitemainstream hiphop. And \"Three MC's and One DJ\", where Mix Master Mike offers a late1990s turntablism masterclass handily condensed to the length of a single, makes me long for that brief moment when Wirereading avantheads shared common ground with straightup bboys, the pleasure principle of hiphop colliding with a noise head's preference for abstract expressionism.The length of the bonus disc nearly rivals the original's length (21 tracks to the parent album's 22) and contains mostly cuttingroom excerpts and dragassy alternate mixes. Oh boy, an even more meandering \"dub mix\" of \"Dr. Lee, PhD\"! There are plenty of short snippets of heavy, kitschy jams where the Beasties indulge their love for the muddy, slomo funk of the mid70s. Get ready for a lot of blaxploitationintwominutesorless like \"Dirty Dog\" and \"Aunt Jackie Poom Poom Delicious\". As far as the bonus instrumentals go, only the pornready mystical mumbojumbo minimalism of \"The Drone\" and the pensive quasirock of \"Creepin'\" justify running the tape past two minutes. And the bulk of the remixes by other artists are inessential, save the stopandgo stutterfunk Colleone and Webb's \"Intergalactic\", compelling because it never quite seems to gel with the original.For an album already in need of a stern editor's hand, the bonus disc just reinforces the impression that the Hello Nastyera Beasties were bursting with interesting starting points they never bothered to see to completion. I remember loving Hello Nasty at the time in part because it was so much, even the undercooked bits and gimpy hippie schlock. Hell, there were still plenty of tracks left to justify the sticker shock of the justpriortoMP3s new CD. But it's hard hearing the positives in such a shapeless mush of halfformed sortasongs with the weary ears of the postiTunes playlist compiler. Let alone bothering to pay for it again in full. As an object in itself, we've got the album we've got, and that means assessing the whole unshapely mass/mess, the ofthemoment experiments with the actual tunes worth keeping a decadeplus later. And that whole, less a glorious mess than the exhausting sort, is the least essential Beasties disc until we hit the new millennium. "}