{"label":" Bachelor / Randy","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14538/homepage_large.6a150d2a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The Yolks","title":"The Yolks","text":" Chicago's the Yolks are garage rockers, pure and simple. They mine a familiar sound, and that almost makes it more of an uphill battle for them to stand out from the rest of the pack; it certainly makes it harder to coast by on charm. And yet, that's exactly what they do here on their selftitled fulllength debut. Don't look for a ton of gravitas: the Yolks write songs about being broke, being lonely, and no shit going on picnics. What you see is what you get here, but what you get is more than just competent: it's direct, unpretentious, and joyful. Their songs are instantly hummable, played with an offhand attitude informed by punk at what feels like half the tempo and with none of the posturing.Opener \"Long Cold Lonely Night\" speeds past with the exuberance of joyriding teenagers in dilapidated cars. The song's simple lyrics have onomatopoeic buoyancy, added to by its quick downstrokes and walking basslines. Some of the band's early singles show up here, rerecorded but not losing any of their spontaneous delivery: \"I Do What I Do\" asserts individuality and bad habits in the face of clingy females, while \"Wandering\" is a simple number that dips into doowop for inspiration for backing vocals that are just as laidback as the lead. The new songs show, comparatively, a bit more effort and angst, but not so much as to punctuate the records perfect lazy haze. \"Fade Away\" kicks up more dust with a far less cautious rhythm and strum and a more pleading melody, and there are hints of sweat in tracks like \"Hey Child\" or \"My Love is Yours (My Money's Mine)\", which (perhaps tellingly) is one of the few moments singer/guitarist Spencer Johnson's vocals rise above a low croon into a grittier and more insistent tone.While the pleasures of the Yolks' debut are simple, the record is still savvy. The surfrock nod \"Sir Charles\" leaves just as much room for a muted, almost jazzy organ as it does for the guitar twang, evoking more of a luau on a private island than an open beach party. \"Rambling\" is a languid country strum that sounds blownout and tweaked from its recording to its copious bent notes. These tracks hint that they've got their ears open and are more versatile than they often let on, and that the consistent, straightforward sound of the rest of the record is all part of the plan. Alone, these two tracks add just enough diversity to a fulllength album. But even with moments like these, The Yolks maintains its amiable slacker charm throughout. \"Jane\" even hits a downright naive, innocent note, asserting that the girl in question \"smells nice\" and wooing her with PBJ sandwiches. It's almost a perfect metaphor for the record: PBJ isn't making anyone's top10 sandwiches for the year, but where would we be without it? This music can still win listeners over, and it's a style the Yolks were born to play. "}