{"label":" Soundway","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14552/homepage_large.b9e30839.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Tumbélé! Biguine, Afro and Latin Sounds From the French Caribbean, 1963-1974","text":" It's fair to say that Western interest in African popular music from the 1960s and 70s has exploded over last 10 years. During this stretch, there's been an onslaught of incredible reissues and compilations, mostly from British and European labels. If there's anything this frenzy of rediscovery has shown, it's that we've only scratched the surface of the incredible amount of music that came out of that continent in those two decades. Perhaps because there's so much great music to explore in Africa, there's been less reissue attention paid to the musically and culturally related styles of the Latin Caribbean. But it seems to be happening in earnest now after a bit of a lag.Britainbased Soundway helped spearhead our dive into vintage Afro styles with its incredible series of Ghanaian and Nigerian funk, rock, soul, highlife, and disco compilations. A few years ago, it started hitting tropical sounds in the Western Hemisphere with stops in Colombia and Panama (the Panama! series picked up again last year with two more excellent volumes). Tumbélé! takes the label to the French islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe for a deep plunge into the relatively unexplored waters of the popular sounds of the Lesser Antilles. The disc steers mostly away from heavily funk and soulinfluenced sounds in favor of styles with more audible links to the biguine, bélé, and gwo ka music of the islands.Gwo ka and bélé are traditional rural styles of Guadeloupe and Martinique, respectively, built around drumming and vocal callandresponse. Both reflect the islands' history with slavery and forced migration, while biguine is more urbane, tracing its roots to a 19th Century synthesis of bélé rhythms and brassled polka by black musicians in Martinique. Those elements lie at the heart of all the music included on this compilation, and over the course of its 20 tracks, you'll hear them crosspollinated with Congolese rumba, Cuban guaguanco, Haitian compas, Trinidadian calypso, American and French hot jazz, Puerto Rican, plena and even a bit of protoboogaloo, often to thrilling effect.The compilation launches with an abrupt cold start that quickly turns very, very hot. The rhythm section and horns all drop in together on the very first beat of Barel Coppet et Mister Lof's \"Jeunesse Vauclin\", the sax and clarinet weaving tightly in unison through the bounding rhythms and hand drums. The song is sweet and naturally funky, a description that could apply to almost all these selections. Some of the outside influences on French Antillean music of the period can be heard directly on inspired selections from Haitian and Congolese acts. Haiti's Les Loups Noirs recorded the appropriately propulsive \"Jet Biguine\", with its psychedout surf guitar leads, during a stay in Martinique, and it's emblematic of the Haitian small group sounds that influenced a move away from larger ensembles in the islands during the 60s. Congo's RyCo Jazz spent four years in Martinique and Guadeloupe, bringing the Caribbean influence that birthed Central African rumba full circle to create the tumbélé style their \"Dima Bolane\" is crazily percussive, balancing frenzied drumming against a slow bass figure and sweetly melodic harmony vocals and sax.There's more wild drumming where that came from, too. Anzala, Dolor, Velo offer fairly straight gwo ka on \"Ti Fi La Ou Te Madam'\", chanting over hard percussion their only concession to urban sounds is a fierce saxophone part that twists around the vocals with amazing dexterity. L'Orchestre Jeunesse de PaulEmile Haliar cast traditional drums in a more modern context on 1963's \"La Vie Critique\", splattering a sax and clarinetdriven biguine with strong jazz overtones with sonorous outbursts of heavy timbale. Jazz is far more up front on the track by Orchestre Combo Zombi, which sounds like it could have knocked an audience at the Paris Hot Club flat on its back. The piano solo is astonishing. Other stylistic combinations are farther out. Les Kings are overt about it: they cover a Puerto Rican bomba track pretty faithfully, but one of their trumpet players cleverly interpolates Antonio Machin's Cuban classic \"El Manisero\" as if to telegraph the band's diverse inspirations.The Caribbean has long been and likely long will be a melting pot. Martinique and Guadeloupe's direct ties to Europe and Africa (via France) and proximity to other Caribbean cultures and sounds made the islands an ideal crucible for imaginative combinations of styles old and new. You can hear the crosscurrents in the electric guitar parts, clarinet solos, intense drumming, and diverse vocal styles on this disc. As we in Europe and North America acclimate to the music of the tropics we once ignored, it makes sense that we'll gradually move away from the comfortable styles with direct rock, soul, and funk influences to find something more purely representative of the places and times we tour through old records. This compilation is a great starting point. "}