{"label":" Hardly Art","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14556/homepage_large.df0a60ef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"The Dutchess and the Duke","title":"Sunset/Sunrise","text":" On the Dutchess and the Duke's 2008 debut, Jesse Lortz exorcizes his demons. With songs about his bitterness toward his mother, and painfully selfhating lyrics like, \"Don't tell me it's alright, 'cause everything inside is wrong with me,\" She's the Dutchess, He's the Duke hurts so good. With exposednerve sentiments married to raw acoustic melodies, it is music made by a damaged man (and his partnerincrime, the smokyvoiced Dutchess Kimberly Morrison). It was also one of the most underrated albums of the year.Sunset/Sunrise finds Lortz in a much different place. A new father, he wrote much of the collection while his wife was pregnant. Anger, doubt, and resentment about his past is now fear, anticipation, and even a little bit of hope for his future. It is not, however, an album of domestic bliss or comfortable complacency.While She's the Dutchess matched style to substance, with minorkey Stones/Kinks grit and swagger to mirror the dark lyrics, Sunset/Sunrise finds the Seattle duo exploring murky, inbetween places both musically and thematically. If a track has a slightly sunny energy or majorkey twang, then its lyrics express sadness or, worse, icy ambivalence. \"Let It Die\" is the first song on the album to explicitly deal with impending fatherhood (\"In the bed my woman lies sweetly/ With a love that I just can't see/ Inside there's a little child now/ With a heart and soul that's free\"). It gallops like a cheerful singalong, but following the description of his loving, pregnant wife is a chorus that intones how badly he wants to run away from her and the prison of domesticity. The only thing more devastating than what he's saying is how he's saying it set against a melody that should be a cozy, cascading love song.Usually when a band expands upon its simple, lofi sound on a sophomore album, it comes off sounding bloated, a blatant attempt to \"mature.\" But the Dutchess and the Duke use the new colors in their palette sparingly and to a satisfying effect. Though almost every song on their debut features nothing more than dueling guitars and perhaps a tambourine or kick drum, the best tracks on Sunset/Sunrise are studded with strings, pianos, and organs that add character to their simple melodies. Album closer \"The River\" feels like a hymn thanks to its unpretentious piano arpeggios and churchly harmonies, \"Hands\" is haunted by a ghostly organ that keens behind the hollow thump of the drum, and \"Scorpio\"'s callandresponse vocals are highlighted by the imitative violin line.While the album as a whole doesn't wallop the way She's the Dutchess does, its more spacious, ambiguous, and, yes, adult songs are intriguing and affecting. Repeated, attentive listens to this record will garner great reward. It's a collection for indierock Peter Pans, people troubled by family fissures or romantic longing, and anyone who got what they always wanted and then was surprised to find they didn't want it anymore. That basically includes most of us. "}