{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14558/homepage_large.83760db6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Dead Man's Bones","title":"Dead Man's Bones","text":" Some records are an absolute void of interesting review angles, forcing us critics to do, like, actual work. Dead Man's Bones is not one of those records. Fact: Indie dreamboat and RealDoll lover portrayer Ryan Gosling is onehalf of Los Angeles band Dead Man's Bones. Wow! Fact: Dead Man's Bones' selftitled debut is a concept album vaguely about supernatural themes, released less than a month before Halloween! Gee! Fact: The vast majority of Dead Man's Bones utilizes a reallife, fullon children's choir, recruited from hipster kid academy the Silverlake Conservatory of Music. TILT TILT TILT! Step aside Girls, we've got a new backstory winner for 2009.It's a credit to the record then that none of these angles turn out to be easy nooses by which to hang the project. The one triggering most alarm bells, of course, is Gosling's involvement, since everyone knows that moviestar bands tend to range from amateurishly terrible to inoffensively generic. Well, I'll dispel that preconception straight away Dead Man's Bones is a really, really weird record, a project where the musical reference points at least indicate that Gosling and his coconspirator Zach Shields have record collections that go deeper than an iPod nano.The other two angles spooky themes and a kid's choir are both symptoms of the record's most endearing quality, a surplus of ideas and a willingness to combine them in ways that are vibrant, sloppy, and fun. Though the record begins with a pretentious spokenword introductory track (kind of a necessary conceptalbum evil) followed by its worst song (the Ambienoverdosed and overserious \"Dead Hearts\"), the remainder of the project is slapdash, giddy, and surprisingly dense. Like an old Elephant 6 record, Dead Man's Bones has a lofi wartsandall feel that's less lazy aesthetic than charmingly handmade, even more charismatic for it's unevenness.That enthusiasm manifests itself best in places like the handclap percussion that propels \"Lose Your Soul\" and \"In the Room Where You Sleep\", both of which feature Gosling's surprisingly effective croon. Songs follow unusual paths \"In the Room\" goes from \"Monster Mash\" organrock to a soft Rhodes coda; \"My Body's a Zombie For You\" has a flute solo breakdown and an a cappella chant; several songs repurpose laughter and chatter from the kids of the choir as ambient noise. And while most of the supernatural themes are more gradeschool Halloween party than horror movie, there are a handful of genuinely unsettling moments the aquatic ghost story of \"Buried in Water\" slashed through with sad, shrill children's voices that remind of Bob Drake's brilliantly scary The Skull Mailbox; a creepy whispered monologue in the middle of \"Young & Tragic\" that sounds like a kid conversing with an imaginary friend.I recognize that the children's choir might be a dealbreaker for some, but the tenaciousness with which Dead Man's Bones use the choir should win over all but the most ardent kidhaters. Sure, there's a bit of the timehonored Roger Waters tradition of making kids sing slightly inappropriate lyrics the first line they're given to sing is the eerie \"Like a lamb to the slaughter\" and their participation on a song called \"My Body's a Zombie For You\" is ever so slightly disconcerting. But the kids also add swooping, dramatic \"woahohhhs\" that would make the Arcade Fire jealous, and get some meatier parts in the harmonized syncopations of \"Lose Your Soul\" or the showtuney curtaindropping chorus of \"Flowers Grow Out of My Grave\".Overall, I'm as surprised as you are with Dead Man's Bones. So many ways for it to go wrong, but instead it's a unique, catchy and lovably weird record, with highlights (the electric piano singalong \"Pa Pa Power\", the Beckish \"Werewolf Heart\") that could hold their own with the best indie singles of the year. Perhaps all those easy angles are a smokescreen, a diversion to lower expectations on a record strong enough to be listened to both without preconceptions and long after its Halloween expiration date. "}