{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14554/homepage_large.52bf9de5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Wayfaring Strangers: Lonesome Heroes","text":" Wanderlust has always been a distinctly masculine trait in America, as the trekking pioneers became cowboys itching to move along the trail, then Depression hobos riding the rails, then troubadours playing one town after another. It's a romanticized view perhaps, more applicable to literature and cinema than to actual history, but that doesn't mean the need to travel or its cousin, the fear of standing still doesn't affect each generation with the force of historical truth. In the 1960s, this wanderlust coincided with a backtonature movement and an aggressive military draft, spurring young men to take their worldly possessions on the road to seek adventure and experience.Most of the acts on the Numero Group's new compilation Wayfaring Strangers: Lonesome Heroes were itinerant in some way: They were nature photographers, hitchhikers, or touring musicians, and almost all of them were hounded by their local draft boards. Some reluctantly enlisted (Tim Ward); others fought their orders and won (Rob Carr); some lost brothers or friends in battle (Jack Hardy); and at least one fled to Europe (Tucker Zimmerman). Their nomadism puts them in sharp contrast to their female counterparts on 2007's Wayfaring Strangers: Ladies From the Canyon. The females are identified more or less with Laurel Canyon, or at least with a brand of folk music closely associated with that place, but as Rob Sevier writes in the Lonesome Heroes liner notes, \"The more positive experience common to these men was time spent on the open road: by car, train, or thumb, the urge to keep moving was pronounced.\"That urge translated into songs emphasizing guitar and voice, with fuller accompaniment only a secondary concern. The implication is that the musicians are making rough sketches on their travels, then fleshing them out during a studio respite. That's certainly the case with Jim Ransom's \"It's So Profound\", which was composed at the top of Independence Pass in Colorado. On the luminous \"As I Walk\", Kalamazoobased strummer Richard Smyrnios is joined by his sister, who adds ghostly backing vocals, and by a fife player; the simple combination of elements gives the song an outoftime quality. Jack Hardy managed to corral slightly higherprofile guests on \"The Tailor\", which is punctuation by harmonies from Suzzy and Terre Roche. Les Moore's strange \"Ooh Pah Do Pah Do\" is perhaps the most studiobound composition here, although his imagery sounds somewhat out of place: \"See those who blow a big nose, see them foul up the air,\" Moore sings very gravely, \"while some in slums suffocate with Kleenex everywhere.\"There's possibly a pointed metaphor buried underneath all that tissue, but on the whole, these songs aren't overtly political, despite the politicized times. They approach these issues either very generally or from a particularly obtuse angle: \"Before\", by thenBuffalo Sabre Jim Schoenfeld, casts a wide net, addressing pollution, violence, war, and unhappiness in their broadest definitions, but rather than an athleteturnedfolkie novelty, the song is redeemed by Schoenfeld's sensitive guitar work and the odd background vocals that hum out a tectonic bass pattern. Similarly, Tucker Zimmerman's \"No Love Lost\" is a downcast sendoff to either a friend or perhaps a politician, but underneath all its slang (\"I'm not getting heavy because no one here feels you\"), it's a deeply sad song and tender, almost whispered performance.It's difficult to determine if that shared glancing approach is truly reflective of their output or just a byproduct of the compilers' song choices. In fact, there's little connecting these men beyond their acoustic guitars, and that ambiguity gently undercuts this collection as a historical document. Of course, the Numero Group is less concerned with documenting particular scenes than with gathering the detritus of certain movements the artists who made great music but never gained notoriety and in some ways, the loose organization of Lonesome Heroes reinforces the artists' nomadic isolation. Ultimately and ironically, they make good company for each other. "}