{"label":" Shout! Factory","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14571/homepage_large.7f3bfc8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ciao My Shining Star: The Songs of Mark Mulcahy","text":" So who the heck is Mark Mulcahy, and why does he have so many famous friends? I can't totally answer the second question, but for the first, go seek out \"Hey Sandy\" by Polaris, put it on, and come back. I'll wait....Ah, you're back. Did you go on a fourhour Super Mario Kart and Mountain Dew binge? Yeah, me too. \"Hey Sandy\" is better known as the theme song from \"The Adventures of Pete & Pete\", and Polaris was Mulcahy's band, a spinoff from his earlier and far more wellknown band, Miracle Legion. Since the glory days of \"Pete & Pete\", he's also put out a few microrun solo records and has cowritten a couple of musicals.But that all still doesn't explain why Mulcahy's catalog would get the starpower treatment, and sadly, the reason lies less with his music than with his personal tragedy. A year ago, Mulcahy's wife Melissa died suddenly, leaving the singersongwriter to raise twin threeyearold daughters alone. Thus, Ciao My Shining Star is both a tribute and a kind of collective patronage for Mulcahy's career, intended to give him the funds carry on as both single father and musician.It's a touching story, lent extra power by just how many big names including Thom Yorke, Frank Black, Dinosaur Jr., Michael Stipe, the National turned out. Apparently, the response was so strong that this 21track album accounts for just over half of the music received; 20 more tracks will be released digitally. But warm, fuzzy feelings aside, there's a musical problem at the core of Ciao My Shining Star that I hope I'm not fasttracked to hell for having the audacity to mention the source material isn't really fertile ground for tribute.Emotional ties to \"Pete & Pete\" aside, Miracle Legion/Polaris/Mulcahy fit pretty squarely into an early 90s collegerock mold jangly guitars, nasal vocals that produced hundreds of similarsounding bands. Try as I might, I can't really see what might set Mulcahy's music apart from the pack; some of the production on his last solo LP, In Pursuit of Your Happiness, pushes into the homemade psychedelia of an act like Sparklehorse, but the machinery under the hood of the songs themselves are largely genericbrand.Still, that's not a dealbreaker for a tribute album Mulcahy's songs are a kind of blank coloring book for contributors to fill with their own set of Crayolas. And the start of Ciao My Shining Star offers a few examples of that approach working. Yorke's \"All For the Best\" has the same itchy, chattering sensations of the bulk of his solo work, but as he is forced to wrap his voice around lyrics that are far more direct and domestic than anything he'd write himself, Yorke (harmonizing with his brother Andy) sounds warmer than ever. The National definitively put their own stamp on \"Ashamed of the Story I Told\" with a rumbling cello and plenty of low piano notes, and Frank Black turns \"Bill Jocko\" into a desperate stomp that is heartwrenching giving the album's backstory howling \"Why do I have to stay here?/ Why does she get to go?\" over a deranged organ.But the majority of the record is given over to singersongwriters covering a singersongwriter, and adding all the creative touches you'd expect from somebody who performs under their own name. This stretch is split between people I've never heard of (Frank Turner, Chris Harford, David Berkeley) and people I thought had given up (Josh Rouse, Ben Kweller, Hayden). All do as little as possible with the source material; only Elvis Perkins' dashedoff but soulful \"She Watches Over Me\" and Fountains of Wayne's Chris Collingwood (who draws the catchy \"Cookie Jar\") impress.So while Ciao My Shining Star is a sterling piece of charity, a postmillennial Sweet Relief, it's also a bit of a slog to sit through, unless you're a loyal regular at your local coffee shop's open mic night. By all means, drop 99 cents here and there to fill out your Radiohead and R.E.M. soloproject collections and throw a few more dollars to this good cause. But there's no need to subject yourself to 40 tracks and two hours of unexceptional covers in the process. "}