{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14568/homepage_large.9cdbcfbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Lou Barlow","title":"Goodnight Unknown","text":" Lou Barlow doesn't need a solo career, really. No matter how you slice the indie rock discography, Barlow is central to anywhere from at least three to as many as 10 canonical releases. Between Dinosaur Jr.'s first three LPs, through the uneven highs of both Sebadoh and Sentridoh and on to D Jr.'s magnetic reunion albums (some might count Folk Implosion... might), Barlow's legacy stands as much more than a footnote. In fact, even calling the output of Barlow now 43 and a married, soontobe father of two a legacy is to date him prematurely. Back in the musically unblemished if personally infamous Dinosaur Jr. trio, he's playing to the biggest crowds and most fanfare of his career. And we're not talking the sort of big gigs where Candlebox or the Spin Doctors shuffle through the hits in your town square (or is that just my town square?) for a few thousand lushes on a summer day, either. Dinosaur Jr. is arguably releasing the best music of its career (and its members' respective careers) right now. Their new records and their distinct history have made them, these days, a very big deal. Not bad for a quarter century, huh?But Goodnight Unknown, Barlow's second solo LP for Merge Records, offers 14 tracks and 37 minutes of proof that Barlow is neither content with the comforts of his rock band's renewed popularity or with the scattered, shambolic solo discography he's built over two decades as Sentridoh. Though it boasted not only what might be the best song ever about a stray cat (\"The Ballad of Daykitty\") but also one of rock's quietest moments of devilish heresy (\"Mary\"), Emoh, Barlow's first album under his own name, often felt too domestic, easy, and assured, as if Barlow got halfway into a track and true to his lofi heritage simply exclaimed, \"Fuck it.\" That makes sense, of course, for an album whose title is \"Home\" in reverse and which was recorded half alone.Goodnight Unknown feels comfortable and, to a point, casual, too, but it bears the kind of exploratory vigor that Emoh lacked. Stylistically, it's much more diverse than Emoh, squeezing many of Barlow's alternate modes Dinosaur Jr.'s pop crunch, Sebadoh's wiry nerves, Sentridoh's acoustic mold into a wellpaced and wellproduced whole. The songs are mostly simple, but the production of Andrew Murdock and the assistance of a cast that includes Lisa Germano, exSoul Coughing bassist Sebastian Steinberg, and Dinosaur Jr.'s Murph add enough flourishes to make careful listens rewarding. Opener \"Sharing\", for instance, is a turgid powerpop charger, pushed from behind by Melvin Dale Crover a friend of Barlow's because they cruise the same Los Angeles \"preschool circuit,\" says Barlow and guided by a chorus that opens wide like the top of a convertible. But \"The Right\" is a lithe pop march. Like bedroom Spoon, its understated structure centers on an unshifting, updown beat and simple chords from an acoustic guitar, all decorated by a chiseled electric line and keys that twinkle between the layers. During \"One Machine, One Long Fight\", the thick drums, circular bass, and anxious vocals saturate the tape. The thuds swell in the speakers as with any number of postNeutral Milk Hotel acts. \"The One I Call\", though, is a gentle acoustic lilt that punctuates the beautifully intertwined guitars of Barlow and Imaad Wasif with drums so simple they sound like a fivegallon bucket banged with a rubber mallet.And lyrically, Goodnight Unknown moves well beyond the reductive (and, for a while now, very wrong) image of Barlow as a moping misanthrope. That picture, of course, was rightfully established by records like Sebadoh's Bakesale (\"Somehow I don't trust you/ I don't trust myself\") and songs like Dinosaur Jr.'s \"Don't\" (\"Why don't you like me?\" ad infinitum). Goodnight Unknown, however, is a reassuring mix of resignation and resistance wherein Barlow admits he's not all powerful but that he's not going to let the world trample him, either. Curious rhetorical devices line these proclamations. Like on the bittersweet \"I'm Thinking...\", Barlow steadies himself amid anxieties about the future by using existential tautologies as crutches. \"The older I get, I get older,\" he sings, somewhere between a whisper and a croon. \"Some days are short, others longer.\" He pines about his new quest for patience and laments his own nasty habits. Ultimately, he defends his \"right to be conflicted.\" And on the gorgeous \"Take Advantage\", he diagrams love like an exotic chemical equation: \"Take apart a rainbow/ Feed it to the sunrise/ Wake me with your elbow/ And I'll know.\" Silly and charming, it feels less like an attempt to be clever than an attempt to be honest, or to document exactly how he feels.And, in the end, isn't that the point? Goodnight Unknown isn't a record that looks to cement some sort of amorphous legacy. It's Barlow's attempt to, you know, be a songwriter. Given that legacy, though, it shouldn't come as a surprise that Lou Barlow excels at being as much. "}