{"label":" Rapster","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14578/homepage_large.0c872a58.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"J Dilla","title":"Dillanthology 3","text":" You know the routine by now: Here's a greatesthits compilation, sourced from a bunch of different albums with a couple of odd singles mixed in, which doesn't have much use to diehards and tells only part of the artist's story to curious newcomers. That was roughly the case with the first volume of the Dillanthology series, one of those technically good but still somewhat redundantly inessential compilations whose omissions defined it just as much as its inclusions. And that problem was easily solved by the raritiespacked Volume 2, which did its part by containing a whole bunch of unreleased remixes that were actually worth unearthing.With the knock on Jay Dee new jacks being that they came to his stuff only through his earlymid2000s releases, a Volume 3 weighing heavily on that material seems even more pointless. Most of Dillanthology 3 is sourced from four albums from this decade Welcome 2 Detroit, Donuts, The Shining, and the recent summer release Jay Stay Paid as well as a track from the Ruff Draft EP and a couple of Jaylib's Dillaproduced selections from the Madlib beattrading collaboration Champion Sound. And make no mistake, they're all good tracks from great albums. But they're great albums that the vast majority of people with at least a passing interest in Dilla already own at least one of.Odds have it that the album in question would be Donuts, his final, sprawling samplecollage work and one of the most definitive recent examples of albums that really work best as a whole. If there's one piece of work that shouldn't be broken up into component tracks and sprinkled across a collection of other stuff, it's that one: \"WorkinOnIt\" (which opens the compilation) and \"AntiAmerican Graffiti\" jump out like nonsequitirs without the surrounding context of their album and get abruptly cut off with a couple of added seconds of posttrack silence tacked on at the end. It feels like watching a YouTube clip of half of a dialogue scene in a feature film and then being expected to recognize how great the movie is.Granted, there are only two dismembered pieces of Donuts on Dillanthology 3, with Dilla's more singlefriendly albums taking up the bulk of the tracklisting. And there's a good crosssection of music that runs a pretty wide gamut of his production techniques over the last six or so years of his life: glimmering keyboarddrenched soul (The Shining's lush Common/D'Angelo feature \"So Far to Go\" and the Isley'd out \"Won't Do\"), ultrataut funk (ranging from Welcome 2 Detroit track \"It's Like That\" to Jay Stay Paid's \"Glamour Sho75 [09]\"), blownout psychedelia (Ruff Draft EP highlight \"Nothing Like This\") and manic jeep beats (Jaylib cuts \"Raw Shit\" and \"The Red\"). If this compilation has a real purpose, it does so by acting as a condensed proof that Dilla's career postmajors was stylistically liberating in a way, even as it ensured that his transition to the underground vanguard was a natural one.But what will buying and owning this collection actually mean to the uninitiated once they finally realize how vast Dilla's career was? Dillanthology 3 is an adequate primer, but a transitory one; the music on here should be plenty to convert the unconverted, but not enough to monopolize their attention once they realize just how starttofinish great the albums these tracks came from actually are. A good solution would have been to extend this compilation past its paltry 47 minutes, get these tracks (including the Donuts selections) to flow and segue into each other, make a genuine mixtape out of it. Maybe then it could've brought some new context to some familiar tracks instead, it just leaves everyone who listens wanting more. "}