{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14581/homepage_large.6bc757e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Tickley Feather","title":"Hors d'Oeuvres","text":" In the early 1990s, lofi recording was a way for artists to wear their low economic status and limited resources as a badge of honor, and to emphasize a sense of intimacy and immediacy. The implication in early recordings by lofi luminaries such as Lou Barlow and John Darnielle was that the music was homemade and authentic, and the product was the result of pure inspiration with minimal technological intervention. In the case of Guided By Voices' Robert Pollard, the hum and fuzz of intentionally lousy recordings added aura and a patina of age to his dense audio collages, encouraging the notion that each track was a magical artifact unearthed from some lost, forgotten corner of rock'n'roll history.In the late 2000s, lofi production is a more confusing thing, having shifted from a matter of pragmatism to a subgenre with its own dogma, canon, and stylistic offshoots. Reasonably decent digital home recording technology has never been more widely available, and as such, the impulse to create deliberately hissy and murky recordings has become more an artistic choice than a practical consideration. This is not meant to be a damning statement. The aesthetics of lofi are valid, and there is no reason for this style not to become a tradition unto itself long after technology has moved along.Annie Sachs, the musician known as Tickley Feather, is an artistic descendant of Robert Pollard. She has released two albums to date, and on both, lofi production is used mainly to create ambiance and suggest subtext rather than highlight rawness or spontaneity. Her sophomore effort, Hors d'Oeuvres, is about as sloppy and informal as her selftitled debut from 2008, but it is far more concise and deliberate in its construction. The record is largely successful in evoking a severely addled state of mind, but it fails to convey much more than wooziness. Sachs leans so hard on distortion and reverb that any potentially communicative element to her music is essentially obliterated. She sings on a majority of the cuts, but since her lyrics are entirely incomprehensible, the overall effect is rather like meeting someone who keeps quietly mumbling in your general direction, but mutters a peevish \"nevermind...\" if you ask them to speak up.Enigmatic evasiveness may be part of Sachs' project, but it denies her art from attaining any sort of depth. At best, Tickley Feather is only superficially interesting, and even then her briefest songs can try even a generous listener's patience. It is difficult not to suspect that her lofi approach is actually a preemptive defensive tactic intended to defuse criticism by foregrounding her limitations. If this is the case, Sachs is only holding herself back. Though her songwriting skill is rather amateurish, she occasionally displays a knack for melody that is smothered by her chintzy instrumentation and crude production. \"Trashy Boys\", the album's centerpiece and high point, has the potential to be quite good, but it suffers because Sachs' commitment to her aesthetic trumps her ability to fully commit to her songs. It is not necessary for her to project confidence, certainly not if she actually wants the music to feel shy and lowkey, but there is a nagging sense throughout Hors d'Oeuvres that Sachs does not have faith in herself or her material, and it is incredibly offputting.Though Sachs' music would be greatly improved by a more assertive spirit and a willingness to fully realize her best ideas, she need not abandon her lofi sensibility. Her ear for interesting synthesizer tones is one of her albums' saving graces, and she is generally effective in establishing her desired mood of vaguely sinister nostalgia. The lofi sound is not the problem; it's her inability to push her music beyond the realm of insecurity and selfindulgence. She doesn't need to hire a band or work in a studio, but she desperately needs some kind of boldness and ambition. "}