{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14574/homepage_large.1da0a100.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Broadcast and the Focus Group","title":"Investigate Witch Cults of the Radio Age","text":" Broadcast and the Focus Group form a likely pair: Both groups make warped psychedelic music rooted in jazz, Europop, and 1960s BBC interludes instead of rock or blues; both conjure a bookshelf's worth of cultural blasts from the nocturnal side of the world Satanic texts, Czech horror films, pulpy science fiction lit; both are as if there were any doubt after hearing their records acutely British. Julian House the man behind the Focus Group and the cofounder of Ghost Box records has designed Broadcast's album sleeves for years (in addition to work for Primal Scream, Stereolab, and others). The specificity of their aesthetic projects and yes, these are bands with \"aesthetic projects\" is so pronounced that calling them kindred spirits implies too much accident: they're more like coconspirators.So Witch Cults of the Radio Age is predictable actually, it's surprising that they didn't decide to record something like it earlier. But for all their similarities, Broadcast and the Focus Group approach their peaks in very different ways. Broadcast's music is sensual and chic; it has poise, groove, and sex; it's black eyeliner. Nitsuh Abebe, writing on this site about the band's outtakes collection The Future Crayon, pointed out that they'd become almost expert in mapping weird onto what were ostensibly pop songs. I'd agree, but almost to their discredit. Broadcast wear their idiosyncrasies like bangles even when I like their music, it feels like it could change shape at any time. By contrast, the Focus Group's native tongue is the stutter; the music's imbalance is in its DNA. Rarely does it ever coalesce into something intelligible, and when it does, there's usually something smeared overtop to throw it offcourse.Though the album is a collaboration, it's obvious which side anchors which tracks: \"The Be Colony\", sung by Broadcast's Trish Keenan, plays like a nursery rhyme trapped in amber; \"Mr. Beard, You Chatterbox\" is 80 seconds of disjointed harpsichord and flute that flares out into static and echo. Broadcast's contributions are intoxicating and lovely; the Focus Group's sound like a threelegged kitten knocking over teacups. It's refreshing to hear two seemingly similar bands highlight each others' differences, but it's also why their collaboration isn't as impacting as the albums the bands make alone. Witch Cults is like the sound of Broadcast and the Focus Group trying to cast their spells at the same time: Some of the record is great, plenty of it is crosschatter.\"For me, the paranormal is most powerful when it's unassuming,\" Trish from Broadcast recently told The Wire \"not obviously spooky or dark.\" She went on to talk about how when she and Broadcast bassist James Cargill moved houses, familiar names and places took on new forms for example, their new downstairs neighbor looked exactly like their former roommate's girlfriend. \"Even my mom was replaced by an old toothless poodle.\" It's a benign sense of horror and disorientation compare it, for example, to Animal Collective's professed interest in slasher movies and all the gross, visceral sounds they integrate into their songs (squish, guts, screams). Europe breeds romantic monsters like Dracula; America breeds disturbed children who grow up to disembody teenagers with massmarket appliances, like Leatherface or Michael Myers. Broadcast and the Focus Group  together and apart offer something a little more prim than the image of someone getting a wooden spike through their eye, but I think the intent is roughly the same: To create a space where, for a second, there's no sense to be made. "}