{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14575/homepage_large.86711212.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"Chromeo","title":"DJ-Kicks","text":" Popular opinion of Chromeo is understandably divided. You'll hear every kind of appraisal of their synthsoaked music: \"too hipster,\" \"too cokedout,\" \"too ironic,\" even \"too fratty.\" On the contrary, they're mostly just big nerds, gobbling oldschool records with aplomb. Hell, band member and hiphop devotee Dave 1's day job is in academia, teaching French to Columbia undergrads. The duo, originating from Montreal, obsessively charts a constellation of synthesizerfueled funk and dancepop out of the 1980s, with oldschool hiphop serving as a guiding compass. Sure, they aren't especially innovative, and their associations with Vice Records and Brooklyn might falsely indicate that their 80s night hokum is all a big puton.Chromeo's entry into !K7's DJKicks, the 30th in the storied mixtape series, seems acutely aware of the distinction. Filled with early80s funk and R&Binfused pop (including bygone classics like Cheri's \"Murphy's Law\" and Val Young's Rick James produced \"Seduction\"), the disc serves as a legend for Dave 1 and bandmate PThugg's musical evolution. At the same time, it captures the nexus in funk, pop, and synthesizerbased music that coalesced in the early 1980s around the time of Thriller. Michael Jackson, unsurprisingly, doesn't make an appearance on the disc, but his 80s work acts like a set of parentheses around the record, contextualizing the late70s blueeyed disco of Leo Sayer with the lateterm vocoder stylings of quirky Quebecers Soupir. Oh, and in keeping with DJKicks tradition, Chromeo cover the Eagles.Like Hot Chip's recent, superior entry in the series, Dave 1 and PThugg craft the mix as a personal biography. But where Hot Chip seamlessly weave incongruity into a glittering tapestry of affectations, Chromeo downplay the pillowtalk wit that marks their original works. Any indication of cheeky sexuality demonstrated in \"Tenderoni\" or \"Bonafied Lovin'\" is rolled back to the comehitherisms laid bare in the freshly postSexual Revolution 70s. As a result, DJKicks almost academically picks apart enlightening standouts from the era of the duo's pop awakening, but unlike the group's best work, the mix tongueties the group's collegial motormouth.The best indication of the boys' amateurish charm is unfortunately found in how they've mixed their picks: Let's just say Chromeo aren't gonna win any professional DJ awards. You could thus take the skeptic's route and argue that the disc only reinforces the duo's ineffectual irony: an awkwardly paced set of alsorans from the roughandtumble end of the disco era. However, these \"alsorans\" reflect a poorly marked throughway in the development of modern pop music, reaffirming Chromeo as quirky but devoted pathfinders. The only thing that seems clear is that you can't separate Chromeo from their early80s record bins, so you pretty much gotta take it or leave it. "}