{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14596/homepage_large.ce2e670b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Flashy Python","title":"Skin and Bones","text":" Refracted through rock mythology, the first chapter of Alec Ounsworth's story plays out in one of two stock ways. The first: Wanting nothing to do with the online hype typhoon attending Clap Your Hands Say Yeah's first album, he kills the band with a Difficult Second Album, 2007's Some Loud Thunder.  The second, equally familiar way to frame the narrative comes from Ounsworth himself: \"If I want to do something with a particular group of people, I will. And if I don't, I won't. If people are willing to work on those terms, that's good. If not, I'll just have to figure out a different way.\" Though I suspect his full story includes elements of both tropes, I'll give Ounsworth the benefit of the doubt at the least, it makes chapter two easier to understand.This latest stage sees Ounsworth as an itinerant songwriter, recruiting collaborators to flesh out a heap of previously written material. On Skin and Bones, credited to Flashy Python and available only from his website, he hires all manner of Philly indie luminaries/friends (members of Dr. Dog, Mazarin, the Walkmen, and Man Man appear) to collaborate on a wheezy, dark song cyclecuminebriated stumble down South Street. Mo Beauty, released on Anti, is more a proper solo album as we know these things, yet also recorded with significant help: at New Orleans' Piety St. studio, with a dozen or so local pros. Thus, two fresh plottwists: Bones is druggy rock'n'roll so uniform in sound and sentiment it feels like a oneoff concept album; Beauty is more variegated and takes more chances: Ounsworth showing his chops.Lyrically, Skin and Bones is a sort of treatise on growing up and settling down while staying weird, cut with lamentations on the false consciousness of those who've chosen to follow the herd. The vibe is overwhelmingly woozy, with Wurlitzer and Hammondladen arrangements spiked with jagged guitars and Ounsworth's instantly recognizable squawk, which more than ever evokes some anachronistic eccentric, twirling around a bar and liberally quoting Ezra Pound. On the title track, he bleats out a skewed requiem for life passing him by (\"Nothing's wrong, the spaceship comes from inside!\") before crying out to his wife Emily to take him home. \"Cattle's New Clothes\" is spiked with pedal steel, as Ounsworth lays into an exundergrounderturnedsquare (\"Look at him go down with the businessmen cattle\").Though it's possible to enjoy the atmosphere of Bones without worrying about lyrics, one does need a taste for murky and tipsy ambience. Ounsworth gets fucked up straightaway on the opening track, a giddy, staggering thing held up by Toby Leaman and Matt Barrick's muscular rhythm section. He freeassociates for a few minutes before the piece trails off with Billy Dufala's skronking saxophone coda, the musical equivalent of belching loudly while getting pushed out of the bar. \"Ichiban Blues\", a sour take on exotic travel, is the most straightforward song on the album, and cinema ode \"In the Darkness\" will satiate those looking for a return to the gangly new wave of the CYHSY stuff. Like those lost evenings we've all had, Bones is a good time while it lasts, but not necessarily something to return to all that often.Ounsworth's likeness to David Byrne began with CYHSY's still lovely \"Over and Over Again\", and the comparisons won't stop with Mo Beauty though for slightly different reasons. Where Byrne himself once decamped in the Big Easy to work with the Dirty Dozen Brass Band for the spare, stately score of Knee Plays, Ounsworth went to New Orleans to hook up with former Meters bassist George Porter, Jr., keyboardist Robert Walter of the Greyboy Allstars, and a dozen or so others. \"I've romanticized that city's aesthetic since I visited there when I was 12,\" he told our news section last August. \"The music seems to just flow out of people naturally.\"The result of Ounsworth bottling this \"flow\" and working it into a set of songs is an album that showcases the breadth of his talents much more than the limited palettes of Flashy Python or CYHSY. Steve Berlin's crisp production highlights the collaborators' vibrant contributions while keeping Ounsworth front and center, resulting in a balanced, evocative work with a focus, appropriately enough, on place. Between the solemn, achingly pretty ballad \"Holy, Holy, Holy Moses (Song for New Orleans)\" and the jaunty, acoustic \"South Philadelphia (Drug Days)\", Ounsworth is able, like Byrne, to balance tics with songcraft, and play in opposite ends of the emotional spectrum (postKatrina anomie, getting fucked up as a kid) with an aura of effortlessness. Elsewhere, \"Idiots in the Rain\" brings the brass to bear on a tune about the exuberance of a French Quarter band revving up, and \"Bones in the Grave\" is a creaky, spooky bit that by itself explains the LPs release on Anti.Yet speaking about both records, Ounsworth told us that Skin and Bones was \"more about me trying to erect some grand statement,\" while Mo Beauty is \"going down to New Orleans for a short period of time and trying to piece something together based on a collection of mostly old songs.\" Hmmm, okay. But one of these \"piecedtogether old songs\" happens to be \"That Is Not My Home (After Bruegel)\", a set of vignettes each beginning with \"me and the wife,\" set to a wonderful blend of swoony new wave, punchy brass, and torrid string swells, which just might be the best song he's ever done. That's one of the ironies of authorship, though: Too often, the author himself can be his own worst enemy when it comes to his own reallife narrative, dismissing his most inspired work in lieu of something which, for whatever reason, he finds himself closer to. For our sake (and his), let's hope he relegates future Flashy Python work to footnote status, and continues staking his persona on more adventurous projects. "}