{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14603/homepage_large.fade4d9d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Panther","title":"Entropy","text":" The third offering from Charlie SalasHumara's former solo project, Panther drummer Joe Kelly joined the fold before last year's 14 kt God is one of the more surprising followup records in recent memory. The Portlandbased band known for its spazzy, sweaty live shows is absent on Entropy. Gone are the Princely sex jams and Casio freakouts of debut Secret Lawns, as well as the Raptureous yelps and jagged beats of their sophomore effort. Instead, on Entropy, we get tightly constructed piano pop nuggets replete with overdubbed, harmonized vocals and loosely jazzy rhythms.Written mostly on the piano (a first for the usually guitardependent SalasHumara), the songs on Entropy owe an obvious debt to softrock stars like Steely Dan and ELO. Recorded at home in the DIY spirit of their label (Kill Rock Stars), it's an aughts version of louche 1970s pop with a puckish (and punkish) experimental attitude that keeps it from sounding like homage or imitation.Opening salvo \"Laditudes for Centuries\" sets the tone with its crashing, disorienting piano line, insistent, rubbery guitar riff, and psychedelic vocal harmonies. The song feels strangely spare, despite its myriad elements, thanks to the repetition of each instrument's vamp and the space between the plinky pianos and the jangly guitars. That space is evident throughout Entropy, as pianos collide into shouty choruses but still leave pockets for breath or the anticipation of Kelly's syncopated rhythms. Ever since Kelly joined the band, he has given it a rhythmically sophisticated underpinning, moving SalasHumara from breakdancing laptop trickster to full on rock'n'roll frontman. And on Entropy, the complex swing of his spastic drumming adds not only energy but also polish to Panther's sound.The album's title is a clue to its creation. Entropy, as a doctrine, is about disintegration, degeneration, and disorder, and in many ways, Entropy, as an album, feels like the breaking down of a pop record. Cyclical piano lines roil insistently, their dissonant notes rubbing up against each other uncomfortably. Choruses are held together by the tension between SalasHumara's alternately dreamy and shouty vocals or the hammered piano arpeggios and noodly guitar flourishes. Rhythms dizzily change pace. Songs end abruptly. On \"Bridge on Fire\" and \"Birds That Move\", it's easy to hear the fingerprints of Panther's AMrock influences mathy piano figures, aloof, jazzy drums, an overall sense of cerebral cool but they are fractured, as if viewed through the warped lens of a broken mirror.There are moments, too, in which the pair remind you of their back catalog; \"Springwater\", for example, is the rare track that makes use of SalasHumara's famed falsetto and features a brief glimpse, about a minute before it ends, of the jittery rhythms and playfully buzzing synthesizers of the band's past. And for those who miss such bleeping dance beats, Entropy ends with a collection of bonus tracks that outnumber the originals including remixes by Portland producers Copy, Lips and Ribs, and E*Rock, which prove that these newer songs, though evolved from the band's glitchy past, are still able to be gussied up in an old guise. "}