{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14595/homepage_large.b47ff913.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Excepter","title":"Black Beach","text":" Few bands seem as genuinely ambivalent toward their listeners as Excepter. Their aesthetic a sort of aboriginal futurism, where ceremonial rattles shake alongside misfiring machines involves each member improvising along esoterically personal paths. Everyone inhabits the solitary world of their little drum or shaker with catatonic intensity, and the music emerges in serendipitous exchanges between private blackouts. They don't mind trawling through tedium to get where they're going: Loops seem to be crafted by trial and error, until pockets of energy flare up in the deadening spaces. At their best, Excepter urge these spasms of life toward payoffs that feel all the more rewarding for their precariousness. But on Black Beach, they smudge the line between letting the magic happen and just nodding out.\"Castle Morro\" represents Excepter at their best. Dawnofman percussion and a hollowedout bass pulse gradually merge, with organic rigor, into a mutant dance track, throbbing with unnatural life. But elsewhere, the album feels meager and underimagined. Dedicating two out of five songs to lightly manipulated seaside recordings (\"Pismo Pool\" and \"[Waves]\") is halfassed. \"Sand Dollar\" is soothing, with scattered taps and rustles amid seahush and a quiet flute theme, but never becomes more than pleasant. The 16minute title track is more compelling, with a broad array of primitive instruments guiro, thumb piano, those metal eggshaped bellthings, rattles, gongs, steel drums, tiny wind instruments divulging a rainbow of timbres. The problem is that Black Beach, as a pure listening experience, is a little too \"you had to be there.\"The record comes with an artily photographed makingof DVD, and if Pitchfork were a film site, the rating would be higher Black Beach works much better in visual format. Basically, Excepter rounded up a bunch of halfdressed fashionhippies at Big Sur and had them zone out with hand instruments, playing against natural sounds instead of mechanical loops. In the video, the pieces gain important context \"Sand Dollar\" is for walking down cliffs toward a seductive shore; \"Castle Morro\" buries the sun. The famously stunning scenery does a lot for the music. And the title track is just a lot cooler when you know there's a naked guy jingling bells on a strip of scavenged seaweed, and a gong being gently struck with a live crab. As a video, Black Beach has a nice communingwithnature spirit that we can connect with although it's like putting a price tag on a Big Sur sunset, or any experience that has mostly firsthand value. "}