{"label":" Constellation","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14610/homepage_large.dd67db05.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Patrick Sisson","artist":"Do Make Say Think","title":"Other Truths","text":" When instrumental rock bands get tapped for soundtracks, it can be kind of a gutcheck that tests how a wider audience may view their music. Sigur Rós' folkloric melodrama and emotive language made sense as a backdrop for Vanilla Sky, itself a sort of scifi fairytale about misplaced and unrequited love starring someone prone to overexcitement. The charged music of Explosions in the Sky fit the open expanses and crushing blows of Friday Night Lights' take on Texas high school football culture (hell, guitarist Munaf Rayani sometimes bends over his instrument like a lineman crouching down into a threepoint stance). So it seemed odd that a track by Canadians Do Make Say Think was chosen for the oil industry drama Syriana. Not to say the Toronto postrock band doesn't make the kind of mesmerizing music suitable for a film score (or that the more tense, overtly politicized music of Godspeed You! Black Emperor might have been a better fit). But DMST can sound so pastoral the music was literally recorded in a barn, in some cases it may seem to lack the bite for a bloodforoil flick.While Do Make Say Think can project a gentle, laidback vibe member Charles Spearin did just finish The Happiness Project they're far from spinning their wheels and rehashing postrock clichés. Other Truths doesn't roughen up the band's jazzsteeped aesthetic. But it does add more dimensions and sharp textures to their songwriting, which continues to get tighter yet wider in scope. Spread across a suite of four lengthy tracks and titled with the same string of verbs as the band's name, the album isn't about momentum as much as it is about transitions. Opener \"Do\" starts with crisp, intertwined guitar lines playing off one another. As the track morphs and unfurls cue the slowbuild and crescendo the themes reappear more charged, parrying with horns and descending into static. \"Make\" quietly delays the payoff, slowly ratcheting things up and marching toward a climax with a floor of tense bass, echoing chants, and sinewy, stretched string notes. When a warm motif of horns and fuzzed guitars begins to cut through the dread, the song's color noticeably shifts. \"Say\" strikes a grandiose yet roadweary tone, as a lonely slide guitar melody gets echoed and expanded by trumpets and churning drums, while \"Think\" may be its companion and comedown, a slow trail set forth by a quivering, reverbladen guitar line.Compared to the group's first few albums, filled with echoing melodies reflective of cavernous recording spaces, Other Truths shows Do Make Say Think more adept at sketching out and imagining their own widescreen landscapes. The interplay here is more complex than You, You're a History in Rust, showcasing restraint and more subtle shifts. Calling instrumental rock \"soundtrack music\" might be stating the obvious. But when it manages to sound as composed and calculated as Other Truths, it isn't meant as a slight. "}