{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14606/homepage_large.b57bfa6b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Karl Blau","title":"Zebra","text":" You've got to wonder how Sasha FrereJones feels about 2009: Not two years after the New Yorker music critic penned a lengthy piece about the increasing pallor of indie rock, the most hotly anticipated album we've yet to hear this year comes from a band of preppy New Yorkers who sing about the doing the kwassa kwassa and drinking horchata. The Dirty Projectors decorate Dave Longstreth's Saharainformed guitar leapsoftechnique with harmonies more rhythmically complex than most delivered on this side of rock in a long time, and Animal Collective continue to pile polyrhythms and tribal chants into skewed pop oddities. Akron/Family's burrowed further into funk than ever before, and a whole fleet of rock bands are currently situated much closer to primal blues than they are to the pasty likes of Pavement. Hell, even Monsters of Folk opened their debut with a stunning soul number about faith and doubt and god and love. And last weekend, FrereJones himself interviewed Justin Vernon a Wisconsin cracker who sings more than a little like Bill Withers with a falsetto for the highsociety New Yorker Festival. Tough year in the biz, as they say.Thing is, none of these developments and the above examples represent only the obvious are responses to Jones' argument. They've been around longer than that essay, \"A Paler Shade of White\". Jones simply tossed a handful of the moment's indie stars into a sea of nostalgia and hindsight, refusing to dig beyond the big bands for the (correct) fear that they'd quickly send him back to The Sketchbook of Theses. Indeed, one of the year's best counters to Jones' argument comes from Karl Blau, a prolific, curious, and mostly overlooked songwriter, producer, and instrumentalist who splits his time between Anacortes and Olympia, Wash., and K Records and KnwYrOwn. His latest, Zebra, is his ode to the African music he treasures and the music it prompted stateside. Importantly though, Blau integrates these styles into his approach, refusing to forsake his own shambling, inclusive ways to rock and folk to make some selfimportant, Afrocentric statement. These influences have been in his music all along. Hearing them just required a bit of attention.\"I've been somewhat obsessed with lots of music from Africa and music made by descendants of Africa over the last dozen years (and really my whole life),\" writes Blau, another hirsute white dude who looks a bit like a lumberjack. \"Last winter I decided to start a collection of songs recorded at Dub Narcotic in Olympia that would pay my respects to influences of African people and people of African heritage.\"If you're familiar with Blau's oeuvre, this move shouldn't come as a surprise. Several years ago, he began the Kelp Lunacy Advanced Plagiarism Society, through which he'd release songs of all stripes every month or so. The series eventually stretched to 28 discs. Or consider Beneath Waves, his excellent K debut in 2006: Opener \"Crashing Waves\" is a wouldbe folkrock anthem for Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy fans, and \"Shadow\" feels like Bill Callahan mocking Lou Reed. But with syncopation that won't sit still and horn charts that erupt in fits and starts, \"My Johnny\" suggests a brass band in art school. \"Into the Nada\" is, at its core, a highlife celebration, its throbbing bass, slithering guitars, and skittering drums presaging Zebra's intentions.Again, that's what's most satisfying about Zebra. Though it's Blau's \"Africa album,\" it seems, in the end, mostly like another Karl Blau record. That's not meant to deride his lack of commitment to any sound as much as it is to note the intricacy and variety of his catalog. Certainly, on Zebra, dub lessons stretch the melody and scatter the tones on \"Tha' Ole Moon Smile\". The infectious, clever \"Dark Sedan\" recalls the lofi set trying to grapple with a Prince infatuation (which means it sounds a little like the Blow). \"Crucial Contact\" conjures the acid washes of psychedelic soul, and \"Apology to Pollinateaurs\" suggests the humid funk of New Orleans woven into Aston Barrett's beard. \"Nothing New\", with its bonedry guitar tone and serial riff, even feels like a Group Doueh meditation that's been cut from beneath by the sorts of jarring chords McCoy Tyner often played. But these songs quixotic, personal reflections with intriguing little details remain Blau's.That said, missteps and a few songs that aren't very memorable line Zebra. Blau played nearly everything himself here, and though he's an excellent musician on several instruments (his bass playing is fantastic), Blau occasionally overreaches his abilities: \"Free the Bird\" stumbles into a mess of Kurt Cobain vocal clichés, and Blau fumbles a few rhythm shifts. The mix of refracted guitar and tweaked synthesizer on \"Goodbye Little Song\" feels hesitant. But again, that's Blau's whole thing. On the humble Zebra, he highlights one chunk of his interests without letting it override the others. And, as always for him, that means offering a few songs that could stand to be reconsidered. Blau does what he's always done, just adding an extra beat, a washedout tone, or thicker bass. It's a darker shade of white that sorry, Mr. Jones thankfully feels unaffected and fitting. "}