{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14611/homepage_large.99cfe0a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Themselves","title":"CrownsDown","text":" My elementary school teacher told my class that he believed you were granted a certain number of words in your life, and once you've said them all, you die. (Yeah, in elementary school he was a pretty weird dude.) The fact that Doseone is still sucking air contradicts his theory. The motormouthed rapper would have used up any reasonable allotment after Themselves' 1999 debut, Them, and he's continued to vent his glossomania with Subtle, cLOUDDEAD, 13 & God, and other projects over the ensuing decade. But maybe my teacher was right, and this is just a \"deal with the devil\" situation, where Dose traded any prospect of mainstream success for a bottomless bag of language, an unmistakable nasal whine to distinguish his voice, and an unnatural capacity for rapidfire enunciation.Dose was a founding member of experimental hiphop collective Anticon, and like many of his peers, his relationship to rap has grown more abstract over the years. Them was a very strange record, with tweaky, minimal beats (by the other half of Themselves, Jel) that showcased Dose's verbal arsenal: rhymes so tightly clustered that \"internal\" doesn't do them justice; protean timbres and cadences; sound effects, whispers, giggles, funny accents. But for all of its spokenwordy set pieces and surreal imagery, it was undeniably a rap record, rooted in rhymesandbreaks fundamentals. The same cannot be said of much work by Dose's other groups, where sung vocals, electropop, and postrock have at least as much traction as hiphop.With CrownsDown, their first album since 2002's indescribable The No Music, Themselves take up the rapsaving talking points upon which Anticon was founded in a major way, with a strong conservative slant to their science fiction. It's a backtobasics album from a group who probably needs one, having ventured so far afield. Opening track \"Back II Burn\" is probably the closest Dose will ever come to \"Mama Said Knock You Out\", a pugilistic comeback with snarled boasts and victorious synth stabs. Jel's live MPC jam on \"Skinning the Drum\" catches up classic breaks like \"Apache\" and \"Cold Sweat\". Only \"You Ain't It\" takes a page from modern rap, with AutoTuned singing by Subtle's Dax Pierson. (And even that could arguably be called a nod to electro.) Most of the album is a direct homage to the aggressive, cluttered productions of the Bomb Squad and the splashy electro of Afrika Bambaataa, with Dose's flow keyed to the repetitive rhyme schemes of the old school, amid lots of turntable scratches and ticktickboom. Contentwise, it's about as easy to summarize as a volume of the Encyclopedia Britannica, but rest assured that it liberally treats all of the following topics: wack MCs, stylebiters, cultural decline, social injustice, and the worst scourge of all, bootleggers.  Of course, for these guys, \"backtobasics\" is relative. \"Oversleeping\" is full of clangorous machine noise, which clears up when Dose spits photon streams into the microphone. \"Deadcatclear II\", a sort of enigmatic confessional, surfs on wobbly drones and drum hits that spill out static like scatter bombs. \"Roman Is as Roman Does\" is like Melle Mel meets TV on the Radio, if TVOTR were heavily influenced by Alvin and the Chipmunks. The clash of hoary hiphop tropes and futurejacking excursions creates a discordant feeling; it's like reading a novel with every fifth word translated into Martian. The record is so crammed with bizarre details, and so relentless in its fullfrontal attack, that it verges on being indigestible. Themselves, whose platform surely includes anathema for instant gratification, probably wouldn't have it any other way. I prefer the more minimal style of Them, which was sharply critical and deeply personal without being hectoring or bombastic. But listeners who enjoy picking apart seambursting sonic worlds will find plenty to explore here. "}