{"label":" ATP","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14633/homepage_large.10046cce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Fuck Buttons","title":"Tarot Sport","text":" Like any noise group, Fuck Buttons rely on a certain amount of vulgarity and aggression. While they've always possessed a knack for melody that has, for their genre, provided their music with an accessible edge, listeners unaccustomed to bloodcurdling screams and metalscraping drones have had their work cut out for them when searching for the more delicate moments that helped make last year's Street Horrrsing such a stunning listen.Tarot Sport represents a subtler, more mature approach to songwriting and a sharpening of their craft. But moreso, it marks a comprehensive stylistic shift for the duo's sound, from experimental noise with a buried pop sensibility to a sort of modernized electronic take on classic postrock structures. And impressively, they've made these changes without sacrificing any of the genrestraddling adventurousness that made them intriguing in the first place.Perhaps the best way to think about their transformation is to consider how the new material relates to postrock groups like Mogwai and Godspeed You! Black Emperor. The band has always had an inclination toward sweeping epics (see: \"Sweet Love for Planet Earth\"), but instead of using scale as a canvas for brutality/delicacy contrasts, here they repurpose the postrock format as a digital soundscape. Gone are the shrieks and wailing guitar chords that populated Street Horrrsing; instead these songs are built almost wholly with synth and keyboard textures that originate in dance music.Aiding the shift is producer Andrew Weatherall, who has a long history of infusing rock with dancefloor bounce and drawing the best from his groups. (His helming of Primal Scream's epochal Screamadelica and his remix work with My Bloody Valentine are prime examples.) From the chugging drumbeat of opener \"Surf Solar\" to the chippedup electro backdrop of finale \"Flight of the Feathered Serpent\", the dynamics and textures of techno are the foundation of the record, making a direct link between Tarot and Weatherall's earlier boundarydefying productions.All of which is prologue to Tarot Sport's actual songs, which by and large are pretty freaking incredible. There's a cinematic, storytelling quality to the music, and the climactic builds of longer pieces such as \"The Lisbon Maru\" with its militaristic drumbeat and huge synth melodies conjure the excitement of an oversized movie sequence. \"Surf Solar\", extended from the clippedlength radio edit that emerged online last month, is anxious and menacing by comparison but hits those notes without the histrionics of Fuck Buttons' previous work the band seems just too confident here to rely on screeches to get its point across.Fuck Buttons also master shorter pieces that shift and redirect the record's momentum. Close in spirit to the tribal romp of \"Ribs Out\" from Street Horrrsing but ultimately more listenable and imaginative \"Rough Steez\" envisions industrial techno as locomotive skronk. And \"Phantom Limb\" recalls genrebenders like Liquid Liquid and Gang Gang Dance with its cavernous atmosphere and snaky, complex arrangement. When the band returns to widescreen emotiveness for the triumphant closer \"Flight of the Feathered Serpent\", it feels like a victory lap the capper on a record that is a hell of a lot easier to like than even fans of Street Horrrsing would have expected. That was a great record, but Tarot Sport is a cut above. Perhaps surprisingly, it's also a welcoming album and one of the best of this already fruitful year. "}