{"label":" Hyperdub","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14631/homepage_large.4e92fb7b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"5: Five Years of Hyperdub","text":" Beatportal.com user Yield Load thinks \"dubstep is wicked music, but I didn't know how your suppose to dance to it.\" The grammar's not there, but the idea is: Dubstep the nocturnal, claustrophobic subgenera of British electronic music that emerged from garage and 2step is descended from dance music but doesn't sound like it's made for dancing. The tempos feel slow, the mood is usually threatening, lonely, or both. If there's any movement I can imagine going comfortably with dubstep, it's what Three 6 Mafia's DJ Paul rapped about on \"Side 2 Side\", and the standard step at indierock shows worldwide: \"I'm in the club posted up, got my arms folded... twistin' my body from side to side.\"Of all the videos of dubstep dancing I clicked through online, two stick out in my mind. One is by an overweight teenager in what is likely his parents' living room, a decorative ship's lifesaver on the wall between what appear to be illustrations of the seaside, a large desktop computer at one end of the room, an open door leading to a yard on the other. A track by the producer Skream comes on, and he starts to move his fists up and down like a child banging steadily on a table, taking very deliberate steps across a carpet. That's it. The other is of two men, one black and one white, dressed in suits, dancing in some kind of white, computergenerated void, as the names of their dance steps flash across the bottom of the screen. My favorite is called \"Lost in the woods (with bewildered stare)\". I don't know if the comedy was intentional. Either way, it's a sign that dubstep has reached a particular position of cultural importance: hundreds of thousands of people are watching a suburban kid dance to it on YouTube.Hyperdub is usually cited as dubstep's most prominent and progressive label, but it's hard to even call most of their releases dubstep, strictly speaking. They've released offcentered hiphop (Flying Lotus), brooding chillout music that recasts the chillout room as a bunker (Kode9 & the Spaceape), and misfit rave music (Zomby). Hyperdub's sound isn't dubstep, it's urban noir in the 21st century, or at least how the 21st century looked in 1970s science fiction: A procession of florescent signs over an empty street. 5: Five Years of Hyperdub their first CD compilation has the tall task of trying to anthologize the label without making it seem like they've run out of ideas. Their solution is sensible: One disc of new material; one disc of classics.Like any label compilation, 5 functions as a kind of mission statement: Here's what we've done; here's what we do. Most of the music on it sounds made for the head, not the feet. In a way, it's like a modern analog to Warp's 1992 compilation, Artificial Intelligence, whose sleeve was a picture of an empty armchair in a living room electronic music that has a place in the home.Describing his music to The Guardian in 2007, the producer Burial said, \"I want it to be like a little sanctuary. It's like that 24hour stand selling tea on a rainy night, glowing in the dark.\" His two albums, Burial and Untrue, have more in common with Massive Attack and ambient music than anything you'd hear at a club. Zomby, on the other hand whose Where Were U in 92? sounded like jungle and drum'n'bass chewed up by a Game Boy described his daily routine to XLR8R magazine as \"lots of rolling joints\" and \"eating some chickenbased dish à la carte.\" These guys aren't public faces, they're lost in the crowd they're people spacing out in their living rooms, alone. Burial's identity was secret for two years after he started putting out records. Zomby will be photographed only while wearing a mask.Anyone familiar with Hyperdub or dubstep in general will know most of the classics disc. That's the point. One of the label's first singles Kode9 & the Spaceape's bloodless cover of the Specials' \"Ghost Town\" doesn't even have a beat behind it; it floats. Burial shows up twice, once with \"South London Boroughs\", once with \"Distant Lights\". There's Zomby's nightmarish \"Spliff Dub (Rustie Remix)\", whose sampled vocalist sings, \"One spliff a day keep the evil away,\" over a track of 8bit garbage and what sounds like synthesizers in a deep fryer. (The music captures weed's paranoia more than its elation I mean, is it supposed to make me like pot or fear it?)The word \"classics\" has a kind of accelerated, lax definition in dance music, and some of the tracks on the second disc are from as recent as earlier this year. The heaviest is Joker's \"Digidesign\", a spacious, bonesimple piece of 80sstyle R&B based around a handful of acidic countermelodies, so elegant it almost plays like a jingle.The first disc the new one is good, but doesn't hold up to the classics. Those expected to bring it, as it were Burial, Zomby, Joker, Flying Lotus do, just not in any revelatory ways. Of the bunch, Zomby is probably the most satisfying because he's so hard to pin down: \"Tarantula\" doesn't sound exactly like anything he's released before, and his most recent single, \"Digital Flora\"/\"Digital Fauna\" doesn't sound like \"Tarantula\". I was never sold on Quarta 330's chiptune routine, nor on Kode9's music either their new contributions roll off. The only track that actively perplexes me is Black Chow's \"Purple Smoke\", whose junkshop hiphop beats are the most brainlessly retro flourish on the whole compilation, and whose comehither Japanese vocalist confuses sexy with corny. Minor complaints. Hyperdub deserves this: They've reshaped the little world they work in, and they've reached out to a wider one whether that world dances or not. "}