{"label":" Cherrytree","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14641/homepage_large.23197dda.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Noah and the Whale","title":"The First Days of Spring","text":" UK singersongwriter Laura Marling and Charlie Fink were dating; now they aren't and she's also out of the band and Fink's Noah and the Whale made a record about it. (A movie, too, but we're not that voyeuristic.) The First Days of Spring is rife with heartbreak the first line is, \"It's the first day of spring/ And my life is starting over again\" and, Marling's compliance in their cutesypoo debut Peaceful, the World Lays Me Down notwithstanding, the number they must've done on each other has made Noah and the Whale sound like an entirely different band. Nothing on Peaceful predicted this change in tone from slick, slaphappy twee to mostly somber, strippeddown folk. Fink sounds more assured beating out demons over psuedoslowcore than leading the preciousness parade that was Peaceful, and, while Fink's still finding his instrument as a songwriter and Noah and the Whale are still desperately in search of a sound to call their own, Spring's journey to bummertown proves a way better time than the Peaceful's cartwheels.Opener and title track \"The First Days of Spring\" feels immediately less claustrophobic and plinkbynumbers than nearly anything on their debut, little more than strings and twangy guitar and sparingly used tympani bobbing and sweling under Fink's mournful pipes. All these tunes consisting of little more than splashes of piano and guitar, a little percussion clatter, and Fink's frontandcenter vocals are quite some change from the whirlygiggery that made Peaceful so tiring. \"My Broken Heart\" has a rangy Neil Youngish quality to it that stands a bit above the din around the rest of the album, but like its predecessors, it doesn't offer too much but platitudes \"broken hearts are a fickle thing and complicated, too,\" or, \"I need your light in my life, need your light,\" that sort of thing. Still, it's a valiant effort at finding meaning in the face of all the silly stuff from Peaceful, and the bare sentiment could be suited worse to the spare, sullen music.There's a huge sidestep in the middle of First Days, the sprightly orchestral \"Instrumental I\" and its follower, \"Love of an Orchestra\". It's the closest thing to Peaceful as you get on Spring, a big bouncy number with swirling instrumentation that's kind of Andrew Lloyd Disney about its goofiness. It works okay in such a small dose, but it'd be strangely placed virtually anywhere on the LP, and while it's a sad song, the fluttery strings create an odd mood shift. By contrast, the end of \"Stranger\" approximates a lighter Stephin Merritt chorus that still sounds roughshod enough to fit in with the rest of the LP better than \"Orchestra\". \"Blue Skies\", \"Slow Glass\", and \"My Door Is Always Open\" stick to the guitarandechoeyatmospherics theme; \"Blue Skies\" has an almost Calexicolike quality to it, \"Slow Glass\" sounds like Low, but these arrangements are pretty much stockandtrade moodstreak rock, nothing that hasn't stood out of the way of better lyrics many times before.Still, the uniform dishwater feel of the music fits the Xanaxed sentiments of the lyrics. You never learn much of the particulars of what happened between Fink and Marling all you feel is that stuff sucks now more than before. As a lyricist, Fink's too reliant on indistinct yearn, and while you might relate to some of Spring's bummedout bromide, Fink's moping seems too scopic to hit anyone very deep for very long. Sometimes you just put it in a letter. "}