{"label":" Stax","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14647/homepage_large.b34a4e6b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Isaac Hayes","title":"Shaft OST [Deluxe Edition]","text":" It's not often that a musician gets a chance to initiate a massive shift in two different fields of entertainment at the same time. Things were different before Isaac Hayes made the leap to scoring movies: you had your Beatles vehicles and your concert documentaries, your rippedfromthecharts soundtracks (Easy Rider) and your film scores that became pop hits (The Good, the Bad and the Ugly). But there was nothing quite like the convergence of popular and cinematic music in Shaft, at least not since Duke Ellington was tapped to soundtrack Anatomy of a Murder 12 years previous. With Shaft, Hayes didn't just break through with a #1 pop album, #1 pop single, and Academy Award, he changed the musical directions of Hollywood and R&B simultaneously. Within two years, damn near everybody in soul had a soundtrack in their discography, resulting in careerdefining classics (Curtis Mayfield's Super Fly) as well as creative transitional experiments (Marvin Gaye's Trouble Man). And it hit hard in the other direction, too: by 1973, Bruce Lee and James Bond alike were busting heads to Lalo Schifrin and George Martin scores that threw in the same serpentine wahwahs and supple funk percussion that nabbed Hayes his Oscar.And yet most people have a hard time looking past that first song. For all the \"baaaad mother/ Shut yo' mouth\" rapport and whockachicka style that provoked a thousand deconstructions of 1970s attitude, \"Theme from Shaft\" was an intricate overture doubling as a characterestablishing theme that made a title card all but redundant, and it proves how easy Hayes' transition from songwriter to filmscore composer actually was. The liner notes to Stax's new, remastered Deluxe Edition reissue of the Shaft soundtrack make note of Hayes' previous foray into the field (the semiobscure Norman Mailer film Maidstone) and the advisement of jazz composer Tom McIntosh to \"just do your thing\" instead of worrying about taking cues from the score to an epic like Doctor Zhivago. But despite his nontraditional approach The Isaac Hayes Movement was said to have recorded \"headwise,\" without the use of sheet music Hayes reached an ideal midpoint between film scoring convention and R&B auteurism, and Shaft is full of cinematic cues and motifs that came naturally to a musician who'd already pushed the boundaries of symphonic soul two years before on Hot Buttered Soul.The majority of Shaft is instrumental, with lots of incidental music that runs between a minute to four and change; it's best experienced in the original filmic context but still has a certain appeal on its own. Aside from being a rich vein of sample material (the agitated cricketchirp guitars in \"Walk From Regio's\" and the simmering, brassy strut of \"No Name Bar\" being two of the richest), these tracks are also an illuminating crosssection of what Hayes and his musicians the BarKays, the Movement, and the Memphis Strings & Horns were capable of. The Hammonddriven \"Bumpy's Lament\" is the most distinctive nod to Stax as it existed in both the mid 60s and the early 70s, combining the grittiness of gospel roots with opulent strings and flutes. \"Ellie's Love Theme\" and \"Shaft Strikes Again\" take it even further, grafting Burt Bacharach/Hal David lightpop melodies into the mix to add an undercurrent of upscale sophistication. And the nods to jazz (the Wes Montgomeryesque guitars in \"Café Regio's\") and blues (\"Bumpy's Blues\", one flyingV and raspysmooth drawl away from being an Albert King single) were, if anything, emblematic of how versatile the Stax/Enterprise \"house style\" had actually become.There are still a couple moments of Isaac Hayes as we know him in a more traditional, noncinematic sense, even though one of them isn't just montageready but a sort of montage in itself. \"Soulsville\" is one of the quintessential 70s sliceoflifeasprotest songs, and while its traveloguestyle breakdown of ghetto strife is a nowfamiliar theme, it's also clearly written as an entreaty for otherwiseoblivious whites to sympathize with Black America's troubles (\"The chains that bind him are hard to see/ Unless you take this walk with me\"), and its mournful sax might be the most iconic moment outside the title theme. Then there's Hayes as marathon runner: the simmering funk of \"Do Your Thing\" takes vamping to a staggering extent, starting with a slinky backbone and working its way into a manic, wailingguitar frenzy that seems calculated to top the alreadyintense climax of Hayes' own \"Walk on By\". It's that rare 19 1/2minute song that's so propulsive and energetic that it goes by like it's five, though the band does get so exhaustively thorough with wringing every last drop of sweat and power out of its groove that eventually one of the guitarists just starts riffing off the threenote NBC theme for no apparent reason. (Left on the CD/digital version: the sudden, hilariously meta \"fuck it, we're out of time\" needlescratch ending.)Within a couple of years of Shaft, Hayes had become so much of a soundtrack celebrity that it briefly threatened to eclipse his other work, and by 1974's Tough Guys and Truck Turner he was able to knock out an entire album's worth of soundtrackready funk so easily that he had more than enough time to star in the movies themselves. But while his music never really regressed Truck Turner, soundtrack or no, might be his best album of the 70s Shaft is where Hayes' meteoric popularity peaked. And for damn good reason: he created a theme song that was both ubiquitous and gamechanging. But, as the liner notes reveal, it was the last thing he wrote for the score making it a song whose strengths were simply the culmination of an already extensive and finelycrafted soundtrack. "}