{"label":" Malicious Damage","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14636/homepage_large.035b6b68.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"The Orb","title":"Baghdad Batteries: Orbsessions Vol. III","text":" The Orb's newmillennium output has varied so wildly, qualitywise, that there's become a sense that a \"good\" new Orb album is mostly down to whoever has control of the mixing desk this time out. On the one hand, this seems unfair to me, because it always sounds like there's some guilt driving the grudging praise that needs to be alleviated by claiming the new guy in the creative mix is responsible for the muchneeded shotinthearm/aesthetic steadying. Not that, say, Thomas Fehlmann is some spring chicken, but you know what I mean.On the other, I can't deny that the Orb's 21stcentury discography is pretty inconsistent, both as a body of work and on an albumbyalbum basis. With that in mind, I listened to the new Orb album, Baghdad Batteries: Orbsessions Vol. III, completely blind. No idea whose hands/brains were responsible for which track. And it's solid enough: entertaining if rarely revelatory, which probably isn't a reasonable expectation anyway, and dangerously stuck between multiple either/ors uptempo and downtempo, retro and innovation. And so the Orb go casting around for proven hits.For the most part, the album keeps from slumping into the kind of pleasantly familiar bulletin from a longrunning act, the kind of latecareer album that gets shelved after three months in favor of the older, better stuff. Baghdad's sure hand with the midtempo isn't surprising, as the Orb helped invent the rave middleground, but unfortunately whimsy and personality can add only so much to Xeroxes. Baghdad recycles recent rave history so frequently that it's got to lean very hard on the Orb's way with beautiful textures to keep listeners from shrugging, sighing, and pulling out the originals.The first half is muted, drizzlyday ambienttechno think \"The Blue Room\" snipped of the reggaeinflections for the postBerlin generation; a more streamlined version of Jan Jelinek in throbbing 1970s prog weirdness mode; some notunpleasant nods to the Artificial Intelligence firstwavers, albeit made with slicker tech. Unfortunately, occasionally, this side of Baghdad does slip into outright, unflattering copycatism, swiping from both 90s and 00s continental European classics. Opener \"Styrofoam Meltdown\" is such a shameless Chain Reaction jack that it even trots out Monolake's precipitation FX, and \"Dolly Unit\" proves somebody in the Orb camp has been monitoring the Field's rise to clubland acclaim.Achieving, at their best, a kind of playful conviction, these aren't bad tracks, but they're far too derivative to bother with a third or fourth listen, especially with Hong Kong or From Here We Go Sublime only a click or two away. \"Raven's Reprise\" is the best of Baghdad's cloning experiments, a truly strange graft of Gas at Wolfgang Voigt's airiest and Terry Riley when he was still nuts for the organ arpeggios. But I can't deny my ears picked up noticeably from track six onward, when things started to get more, well, Orbesque. The appearance of that old housemeetsdub skank on \"Super Soakers\" feels downright welcome after the preceding pulseless 20 minutes, as does \"Suburban Smog\" with electro stabs further agitating some clattering jazzhouse percussion.But the best tracks on Baghdad are the shortest and least obviously indebted, tacked to the end as if they were outrostyle afterthoughts. \"Pebbles\" induces a miniswoon with just a minute's worth of Lawrence Welkian harp runs fed through various fidelitydegrading filters; \"Woodlarking\" reminds me of the disembodied soulradio moans of Durutti Column's \"Otis\" if Vini Reilly had been briefly obsessed with Kraftwerk. These smallscale charmers make me wish for an album's worth of Orb miniatures, perhaps a more fruitful future avenue as Alex Paterson and pals move into their third decade. Everyone loses if we sit around waiting for another \"Little Fluffy Clouds\", but I can't exactly say who wins if the Orb spend the next 10 years looking for creative juice in other people's records. "}