{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14648/homepage_large.76530d83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: Smart's Palace","text":" Imagine a wordassociation game matching cities to their defining characteristics. I say Boston, you might say chowder or Red Sox or baked beans. For New Orleans, you might say gumbo or Mardi Gras or Katrina. Wichita... a lot of things might come to mind (my #1 is lineman), but soul music is probably not among the first hundred or so. Well, the Smart family begs to differ. Back in the 1950s, 60s, and 70s, various Smart brothers (there were eight of them) ruled various aspects of a soul empire that included a band, club, restaurant, record store, and record label. They sent raiding parties to major cities on the West Coast, East Coast, and Third Coast, and cut enough great records to fill a pretty killer compilation.The Smart Brothers Band was one of a few R&B show bands to rise in Wichita in the late 50s, and by all accounts they delivered in concert, as recounted in Numero's typically extensive liner notes. John and Leroy Smart were the band's animated front line, jumping from table to table in the club while soloing, popping handstands, and dragging audience members onstage in unusual ways by grabbing their belt buckles with their teeth and tugging, for instance. Their bassplaying brother Dick was the businessman of the bunch, launching all the ventures listed above apart from the band itself, and he in many ways was the engine under the hood of Wichita's soul scene. The discography of the various Smart Brothers lineups, which themselves went by a few different names, is limited, and here is augmented by recordings made by other artists for Dick Smart's Solo label, many of which feature a similar group of musicians.Outfits that lasted from the 50s into the 70s weren't that uncommon, and it's always fascinating to hear their evolution as styles changed around them. These tracks, recorded between 1963 and 1975, chart a progression from hardboogying R&B to deep soul and hard funk noir with a strong social conscience. The earliest sides have a ramshackle quality befitting their low recording budgets and utter obscurity. The Smart Brothers' \"Barefoot Philly\" is an instrumental led by screaming sax and packed with shouted exhortations from the other band members, while the brothers' tracks as the backing band for C.C. \"Baby\" Neal are rough but spirited and clearly the work of talented people. \"I'm Not Ashamed\" is borderline doowop slathered with fake crowd noise to imitate the vibe of their shows, and \"Lorraine\" has an interesting drum beat and an atmosphere similar to the fratrock records of the same era, with lots of instudio conversation and shouts.A full 10 years later, Neal was back, leading a band called the Hard Road through a couple of sides of harmonyladen throwback soul with a decidedly more refined sound. In between, Dick Smart made some cool records hampered only by their microscopic distribution range (i.e., Dick Smart's record store). Theron & Darrell's \"It's Your Love\" is a slamming Sam & Davestyle soul track with a wicked bounce in its step and a breakdown that oddly quotes the breakdown of Chicago's \"South California Purples\". Fred Williams & the Jewels Band's \"The Dance Got Old\" is a standup example of the \"name as many dance steps as you can\" microgenre, and John Smart's Band's \"Herbie's Bag\" is a great R&B show band instrumental I can see the brothers doing those backflips while the band digs into this.The unfortunatelynamed Chocolate Snow didn't include any Smart Brothers in its multiracial lineup, but their \"It's Like Heaven\" and \"Inflation\", both released for the first time ever here, are outstanding. \"Inflation\" is a great funknoir track featuring a spoken rumination on unemployment: \"My goodness. You gonna tell me you got no jobs today? You told me last week to come back this week.\" There's also an instrumental version that purports to be a cover of the Beatles' \"A Day in the Life\", but it's pretty much unrecognizable as such, and that's probably for the best. Tracks like this make Numero's soularcheology project more than worthwhile, and Smart's Palace is yet another strong entry in the Eccentric Soul series. So, will this disc shoot soul music to the top of your Wichita freeassociation list? Probably not. But it might put it in the top 10. "}