{"label":" RJ's Electrical Connections","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14649/homepage_large.0785a19a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"RJD2","title":"2002-2010","text":" Is RJD2 slept on? I've wondered that occasionally ever since I listened to 2007's odd popsoul detour The Third Hand and wound up feeling disappointed at its almost defiant shift away from the production style that put him on the mainstream radar seven years ago. His buzz was still strong as of early 2006, when he helmed the beats on solid albums by Soul Position and Aceyalone that dropped in consecutive months. But it seems in the ensuing years that the only prominent reminder people still have of the oftenmelancholy but heavyhitting style which once made him an heir apparent to the progcratedigger genius of DJ Shadow and Dan the Automator is the 37 seconds of \"A Beautiful Mine\" that accompanies Don Draper's animated freefall in the opening credits of \"Mad Men\".So now that RJ has his own label and the rights to put his first three Definitive Jux releases out on it, he's created a good excuse to revisit his earlier catalogue in the form of a misleadinglytitled collectorsquality vinyl box set. The titular timeline notwithstanding, 20022010 as it's packaged sticks significantly to the first few years of his breakthrough success, starting with 2002's Deadringer and encompassing its 2004 followup, Since We Last Spoke, and a couple of EPs (2003's The Horror and the unreleasedmaterial collection Tin Foil Hat). So if you want a crash course in what made RJ Krohn one of the most exciting new hiphop producerauteurs of the decade's first half, you've got a good headstart in here.Deadringer was the crucial first impression that many fans and critics intially judged RJD2 by, and that impression still lingers. After honing his skills with Columbus' MHz crew in the late 90s, RJ broke out big time as a production auteur with his solo debut, and already you can hear how versatile he could be. Opener \"The Horror\" is still completely, wonderfully ridiculous threatening and absurd at the same time, cartoon haunted house music that actually bumps harder than most early00s indie rap. And that sense of semigothic hiphop eeriness carries on through a number of different guises mournful soulblues (\"Smoke & Mirrors\"), breakchopping John Bonhamisms (\"ChickenBone Circuit\"), glowing psychfunk drone (\"The Proxy\"), mocking baroque choruses (\"F.H.H.\", featuring antibackpacker broadsides from sneering MHz vet Jakki da Motamouth) and, most memorably, Copywrite's anguished message to his late father on the folkjazz requiem \"June\".That album's lasting impact ensured that at least some people might be thrown off a bit by Since We Last Spoke it's put together with much of the same cratedigger eclecticism and airtight drum programming as Deadringer, but in the service of a work that feels more like an attempt to build a rock and new waveinfluenced funk album out of samples. RJ went completely batshit crazy on this one: The opening title track turns the Stooges' \"Gimme Danger\" aesthetic insideout and garnishes it with nicotinestained synthesizers, \"Iced Lightning\" is arenaprog for fogandlaser bboy battles, \"Exotic Talk\" rides on a beat that sounds like Keith Moon/Tony Williams conjoined twins going at a 90piece drum kit, and \"Through the Walls\" resembles a peakperiod Cars track so much he actually got Ric Ocasek himself to sing on the remix. But the soulful sorrow that made Deadringer stand out still comes through in the more subdued moments \"Clean Living\" cops Sly Stone vibes off a late70s funk rarity featuring a young L.A. Reid on drums, and closer \"One Day\" is heartbroken, latenight cocktail R&B of the finest caliber making Spoke the equivalent of an unusually good alternateuniverse freeform radio station circa 1978.The other two pieces of the box aren't quite as essential, though people who already own the two fulllengths might want to keep them (and the really sharp screenprinted poster) in mind when considering this purchase. The Horror EP doesn't include much that's worth going out of your way for, though it's nice to have instrumental versions of Deadringer tracks \"Final Frontier\" and \"F.H.H.\" and there's a song, \"Sell the World\", that does one hell of a number on Randy Newman's \"Last Night I Had a Dream\" with some phantasmagorical Brides of Funkenstein vocals. The Tin Foil Hat EP is the completist's draw, featuring seven mostlygood tracks left, it seems inexplicably, on the cuttingroom floor; the nineplusminute suite \"Thine Planetarium\" and the \"Takeover\"goneuptown strut of \"The Move\" (featuring underrated, sincevanished MHz member Tage Proto) are the most desirable of the bunch.20022010 isn't entirely inaccurate as a title, since the box itself is large enough to accommodate your vinyl copies of The Third Hand and, presumably, next year's The Colossus if you want. (Or the lostclassic In Rare Form: Unreleased Instrumentals, for that matter.) But as it stands on its own, this slice of RJD2's 20022004 is a necessary reminder that, as hiphop producers of this decade go, he still deserves consideration for top 10 status. And for that short window of time assuming the material on Tin Foil Hat doesn't fall too far outside that chronological window the scope and quality of the music here should be seen as nothing less than impressive. Here's hoping his next decade starts off as hot as this one did. "}