{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1352/homepage_large.01227297.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Cave In","title":"Perfect Pitch Black","text":" Cave In's 2003 majorlabel debut garnered comparisons to Radiohead, Foo Fighters, and, in at least one review, Blue Öyster Cult. The new direction caused throngs of longtime fans to turn their backs on the band, and the cashin, resulting in a slick but sickly commercial hardcore sound, ultimately bombed. Two years later, the band is back on Hydra Head, and while there are a few nods to the Cave In of days past, Perfect Pitch Black is nonetheless a melodic rock album at heart. Strikingly, Perfect Pitch Black succeeds because of not in spite of its catchy melodies, infectious riffing, and silksmooth vocals. The tempos, generally in the midtoslow range, give the songs time to develop, allowing them to sink in gradually. Additionally, bassist Caleb Scofield's guttural hardcore barking, once such a signature element of Cave In's sound, only shows up here on occasion, as an accent to Stephen Brodsky's clear, gliding vocal style that more closely resembles the hardrock singers of the 70s. Fresh off manning the decks for the Red Chord and Victory at Sea, producer Andrew Schneider lends these songs a heady atmosphere, ripe with booming drums, glistening guitars, and twisted reverb effects. Following a brief intro, \"The World Is in Your Way\" rolls in on a slow, jerky rhythm, but begins to hint at something more sinister as the guitars shift into a slightly atonal style, and Scofield's bestial holler breaks through a blend of melody and slowburning fury that sets the tone for much of the disc's runtime. \"Trepanning\", however, applies a different formula, spinning a guitargroove boogie as Scofield snarls through the verses. The song leads into \"Paranormal\", a sevenminute atmospheric piece which weaves elements of psychedelia into the band's heavy riffage. Another surprising moment comes with \"Ataraxia\", a mathmetal instrumental that blends layers of fuzzy, twisting guitars and distant, nebulous vocals. Each of Cave In's albums to date has marked a distinct shift and change of approach, and Perfect Pitch Black's strength lies with their ability to seamlessly intertwine their past and present, experimenting with a diverse array of progressive genres and styles while remaining true to their metalcore roots. Granted, this is a far cry from the band's earlier work, and five years on from Jupiter, their creative apex does seem to have come and gone. On the other hand, few bands are capable of weathering so much change while remaining so consistent. Given the obstacles and challenges of their decadelong career, Perfect Pitch Black is a far more rewarding album than Cave In should rightly be capable of producing this late in the game. "}