{"label":" Soundway","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14668/homepage_large.83b127b7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ghana Special: Modern Highlife, Afro-Sounds & Ghanaian Blues 1968-1981","text":" Earlier this year, Soundway treated us to Nigeria Special: Modern Highlife, AfroSounds & Nigerian Blues 19701976, a doubledisc compilation that served as a snapshot of the country's popular music scene in the 1970s, taking in sounds from the traditionally rooted to the progressive and experimental. There was a great deal of affinity between the scenes in Nigeria and Ghana during that era, owing in part to their shared history of British colonization and the free flow of people back and forth between the two nations. During a period of exile, Nigerian Afrobeat king Fela Kuti sheltered in Ghana, and many of Ghana's musicians did stints in Lagos and other Nigerian cities. The hornheavy dance band highlife sound that developed in Ghana was easily exported by E.T. Mensah to Nigeria in the 50s, and the two countries keep up their musical dialogue even today.So now Soundway gives us Ghana Special, a twodisc, 33track companion to the Nigerian volume and a successor to the label's two Ghana Soundz compilations from several years ago. Where Ghana Soundz focused on heavy funk and Afrobeat, this draws from a much wider spectrum, providing a panorama of the country's pop music. The influences range from local rhythms and ageold songs and the divergent palmwine and big band highlife styles of Ghana itself to American blues, soul, and funk, European and American rock and psych (the Barbecues quote \"Black Magic Woman\" in the organ solo of \"Aaya Lolo\"), Cuban pachanga, and Nigerian Afrobeat. The cycling guitars of highlife are sometimes tinged with a bit of wah pedal, and wild analog synthesizers rub shoulders with hand drums whose design hasn't changed in centuries. Highlife's two strains the upper class big bands with their horn sections and lowerclass palmwine with its simple guitars and socially observant lyrics essentially merged during this period, as record players became widespread, economic decline made it tough to keep the big bands together, and technology changed everything.Some names are familiar. Collectors of these compilations will recognize the African Brothers, TO Jazz, the Sweet Talks, K. Frimpong, Ebo Taylor, Mercury Dance Band, Uhuru Dance Band, GyeduBlay Ambolley, and others (including a guest shot on sax by Fela Kuti backing Basa Basa Soundz), but there are plenty of other names that will be new even to the wellversed. The Barbecues, Boombaya, Pagadeja, the Wellis Band, St. Peter & the Holymen and Houghas Sorowonko aren't exactly well known, even to enthusiasts. The liner notes are stuffed with biographical and collector wonk information, shedding light on just how extensive the music industry was in Ghana before its collapse in 1981. For a collector, it's a treasure trove of backstory I've had K. Gyasi and Kyeremateng Atwede albums for years, and now I finally know who these people were.It's hard to put a foot wrong when stepping into the tracklisting. Christy Azuma & Uppers International supply ethereal Afrobeat on \"Din Ya Sugri\", the Sweet Talks get sweetly funky on \"Akampanye\", the members of Pagadeja have fun imitating animal noises on \"Tamale\", and we get to hear Hedzoleh Sounds, known in the West primarily for the record they cut backing South African trumpeter Hugh Masekela, on their own, laying down a couple of mean grooves and getting crazy with a Jew's harp. \"Bukom\", by Oscar Sulley's Nezele Sounds, brilliantly showcases Sulley's arranging skills, pitting an army of traditional drums against thundering brass if I ran a good college marching band program, I'd be slipping this in to the repertoire to blow some minds at halftime. Soundway's Miles Cleret also includes K. Frimpong's stone classic \"Kyenkyen Bi Adi M'Awu\", which here sounds far more cleaned up and clear than any remastering I've previously heard, be it on a cassette from Ghana or Kona's excellent 2002 AfroRock, Vol.1 compilation, where it made its Western debut.The long instrumental intro to VisAVis's \"Obi Agye Me Dofo\" is very nearly a cover of \"Kyenkyen\", and they share a type of syncopated, hopping beat that seems unique to Ghanaian records it's heard several times here, including on Ebo Taylor's \"Twer Nyame\". Though no two songs handle it exactly the same way, it's something of a national rhythmic stamp that's instantly addictive. And that's one reason that Soundway had to make a Ghanaian companion to Nigeria Special: As intertwined as the countries' music could be, neither scene was subordinate to the other, and this music is distinctly Ghanaian. In any event, Ghana Special offers a spoil of riches you can dance to in any language. "}