{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14661/homepage_large.4171a3b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Espers","title":"III","text":" When Philly collective Espers entered the stage with their 2004 selftitled LP, they rode the freakfolk wave that was then taking over indie and made it freakier, adding a spacedout acidrock sensibility that took them to some unexplored middle ground between Bert Jansch and Hawkwind. When I interviewed Devendra Banhart around that time, Banhart made a big point about how the new weird America vanguard wasn't actually folk at all, pointing out along the way that the Espers folks were all big Sabbath fans. Made perfect sense. Chuck Eddy (my former editor at The Village Voice), once pointed out that that first album and the one after it, 2006's II sounded like wispy, atmospheric gothmetal (Katatonia, say, or Candlemass) with all the metal stuff stripped away. Totally true. It also sounded something like screwedandchopped Renn Faire music. It was some seriously blissedout opiumden shit.On III opener \"I Can't See Clear\", something's different. The tempo has crept up a couple of notches. The drums are actually audible in the mix. Meg Baird's voice remains as otherworldly as ever, but she's using it to sing a relatively straightforward melody. In short, \"I Can't See Clear\" sounds like pure Renn Faire music not screwed, not chopped, just straight. There's still a great little psych guitar lead in there, but the addictive gloom of previous albums is gone. And, for the most part, it stays gone throughout III. Only one song breaks the sixminute barrier. The vocals, from Baird and leader Greg Weeks, aren't quite so buried in the mix. The arrangements come relatively packed and, at times, almost choked or cluttered. When violins start divebombing the lovely ethereal acoustic harmonies of \"Sightings\", for instance, it's like the band is actively resisting the afghanrug rapture they're capable of.So what we've got here is Espers' move toward simplicity and directness, a look that doesn't suit them especially well. Those arrangements are a big part of the problem. Weeks has numbers at his disposal the first time I saw Espers live, they peaked at 12 people onstage. And on III, he apparently can't resist using those numbers. So moments that would've worked fine with just an acoustic guitar or a murmuring organ get both, plus a spindly violin or a flangedout electric guitar or some kind of mandolin thing. When you're using all these folks to crank out some sort of stoned droneraga, it works a whole lot better than when you're trying to play a simple folk song. The songs on III seem to want to be simple folk songs. And unlike on previous albums, the players aren't always pushing each other higher into new celestial realms. Sometimes, they're just getting in each other's way.And yet there's an implacable heaviness to this band that III doesn't even come close to dissipating. Moments on the album rank among the band's heaviest, and a few of the riffs here (on \"That Which Darkly Thrives\", on \"Meridian\") could be just utterly kickass stoner metal riffs if played on huge distorted guitars rather than tiny lutes or whatever. If Espers don't float off into the ether on III as often as they once did, they still get closer, more often, than just about anyone else who came to prominence during our last great freakfolk wave. Long may they eerily flutter. "}