{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14678/homepage_large.4147a96e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Molina and Johnson","title":"Molina and Johnson","text":" Between Memphis and Little Rock runs a particularly unscenic stretch of American highway. Neither hilly nor flat, verdant nor desert, this section of I40 feels like a time trap: You can drive for what seems like hours through the blank fields and past service stations that dot the roadside, but once you look at the clock, you'll find that only a few minutes have passed. On their first collaboration together, Jason Molina and Will Johnson have made the musical equivalent of that length of Arkansas highway. The 14 tracks on Molina and Johnson comprise an especially slow drive through somber countryside, windows up and speed limit carefully maintained.It's especially disappointing from these two prolific indie lifers, who have painted such distinctive American landscapes throughout their careers. An underrated singer and decoderringdemanding lyricist, Johnson oversees a range of projects, from the relatively popmotivated CentroMatic to the dustily atmospheric South San Gabriel, each playing off hardscrabble Lone Star rock to create something unique and accessible. Molina, on the other hand, has grown only more direct in his songs, abandoning the avantAmericana outfit Songs: Ohia for the more straightforward classic rock of Magnolia Electric Co., which tends to work best in big, broad landscapes (the box set ­Sojourner) rather than in lifesize portraiture (Josephine, from earlier this year).The duo wrote and recorded Molina and Johnson during a 10day respite in Johnson's home base of Denton, Texas, where they drank, smoked, and reportedly shot BB guns. Rather than showcasing any of that genial amity, the result is a sleepy, soundtracky, unexcitable record. Slow and subdued are legitimate musical choices, but an album of such lowkey songs, especially from a pair of musicians who have displayed a broader palette in the past, seems like a missed opportunity, as if each is narrowing instead of expanding the possibilities for the other. Especially in its middle third, Molina and Johnson lags sluggishly, packing in too many gravely austere and relentlessly funereal numbers, like Johnson's slowmoving \"In the Avalon/The Killer\" and Molina's studiously stark \"Each Star Marks a Day\". There are hints of intriguing contrast on songs on the album Johnson's gritty rasp, wandering piano, and earthy imagery versus Molina's airy tenor, sparking guitar licks, and celestial navigations but they're never explored or examined in any interesting way.There are a few bright spots on this otherwise monochromatic album, most crammed toward the beginning. With its shuffling percussion and mournful guitar, opener \"Twenty Cycles to the Ground\" delivers a hook forged from hard syllables and mixes their voices evocatively. The hummed \"Now, Divide\" sounds like Dylan's Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid soundtrack played at the wrong speed, and \"All Gone, All Gone\" is positively Oldhamesque as a hitchhiking Sarah Jaffe shows up to wrap her voice around Johnson's. But these moments never coalesce into anything larger or more sustained, nor do they make the scenery all that intriguing, which is a shame considering the wanderlust of their previous projects. They have always been curious to see what's around the next bend or over the next hill, but Molina and Johnson too often sounds like it can barely make it up the incline to enjoy the view. "}