{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14677/homepage_large.e76c409d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Foo Fighters","title":"Greatest Hits","text":" We all know the hero myth of Nirvana: Kurt Cobain stormed MTV and radio with punk anthems of genuine rage, and saved us all from the vapidity of hair metal. This story has been repeated so many times that it's rare to find Cobain's music framed in any other context, especially since his suicide served only to make him a rock'n'roll martyr. Foo Fighters have something of a hero myth going on too, but it's a lot less dramatic: Following the death of his comrade, Dave Grohl rocked on as the leader of his own band, and spent the next 15 years making mainstream rock radio, uh, slightly more listenable.Grohl's task may not be anywhere near as glamorous or as eradefining as that of his former band, but in a way, it's much more difficult and thankless. In the years after Cobain's death, corporate consolidation of rock radio took hold and quickly snuffed out nearly every bit of underground weirdness that made its way into the mainstream after the record industry went through its phase of signing every cult band they could get in the hopes of finding another Nirvana. The playlists got tighter, and if you're reading this site, we probably don't need to tell you just how bad the music on these stations got, and how to this day it only seems to get worse. Grohl and his band may have been grandfathered into the radio format mainly for his connection to Nirvana, but he earned his keep and turned out a reliable string of enjoyable hits.This probably sounds like faint praise. Indeed, you barely need to be mediocre to outshine the likes of Nickelback, Creed, and Hoobastank, but Foo Fighters are not merely a tolerable band floating along in a sea of crap, or a decent band that somehow remains mainstream against the odds. Foo Fighters are excellent at being mainstream, and, over the course of six albums, Dave Grohl has gone through the unlikely transformation of being known only as the powerhouse drummer of Nirvana to becoming his generation's answer to Tom Petty a consistent hit machine pumping out workingclass rock.Part of what makes Foo Fighters thrilling, at least from an indie/altrock perspective, is that Grohl manages to smuggle bits of underground sounds into his arenafilling hits. \"All My Life\", a smash from 2002's One By One, owes a significant debt to the slashing chord progressions of math rock titans Chavez, and \"Big Me\" is one of the few songs to come out of twee to enjoy major commercial success in the United States. \"Everlong\", perhaps Grohl's most enduring and beloved composition, bridges the gap between the midwestern posthardcore emo of Hum and Braid and the more commercial iterations of emo that would follow.Grohl doesn't appropriate in order to seem hip, and his reference points are not particularly relevant to getting across the appeal of his music he simply has good taste and borrows ideas that work. His soaring ballads, like \"Learn to Fly\" and \"Times Like These\", are not nearly as cool, but his punk influences shine through in his total commitment to a sentimental tone without allowing for mawkishness or surrendering to cheesiness. Grohl is known to be a funny guy, but there is never a trace of an ironic smirk in the guy's music, and he shines when his earnestness is most apparent, whether it's the gleeful riffing of \"Monkey Wrench\" and \"This Is a Call\", or the tortured romantic angst of \"The Best of You\".As a compilation, Greatest Hits offers few surprises other than that Grohl somehow resisted the temptation to title this thing The Best of Foo. Though the record conspicuously lacks the band's breakthrough single, \"I'll Stick Around\", the first 13 tracks make good on the promise of the title and provide a relentless hit parade of modern rock radio staples. Of course, modernhits compilations are unnecessarily larded with new tracks recorded to promote the set upon release, and this is no exception. Like nearly all songs recorded specifically for these releases, \"Wheels\" and \"Word Forward\" are catchy but uninspired, and have no place among the heavy hitters in this collection. \"Wheels\" is particularly aggravating, sounding something like a halfhearted attempt at a countryrock crossover, which indicates a nervous desperation for continued success that has been absent from Grohl's work to date.The band surely had better options for nonalbum tracks. Why not instead include their wellknown cover of Prince's \"Darling Nikki\", their soundtrack hit \"The One\", or a new recording of a strong Bside like 1996's \"How I Miss You\" or Grohl's sole Nirvana composition, \"Marigold\"? At least those songs would've fit into the general conceit of a career survey. These bonus tracks are contractual obligations and a simple fact of the modern record industry, but Foo Fighters' Greatest Hits is a perfect example of an otherwise valuable catalog release marred by this unnecessary meddling in the interest of stimulating firstweek sales. "}