{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14687/homepage_large.c0fa2b6f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Warp20 (Box Set)","text":" Kode9's dubstep label Hyperdub is celebrating its fifth anniversary this year with a twodisc compilation. Venerable Berlin techno imprint Get Physical is turning seven, while the even more beloved Cologne label Kompakt is 10. In the fickle world of electronic music, any anniversary it seems is worth noting. Warp Records at 20, almost as old as all three put together is doing it right with an expansive, expensivelooking (and, ok, expensive) box set, some elements of which are available separately.Let's be frank about the overall package: It is in no way for the casual fan. But was it ever going to be? Warp, aware that a 20th anniversary collection couldn't work as both an introduction and a want/need item for its rabid fans, wisely went all in on the latter. If music is now, to many, free, and the draw of a music product is everything but the music, Warp embraced this dilemma: Yes / Dan Holdsworth (designers of the box itself) and the label's longtime visual collaborators at the Designers Republic (who are responsible for much of the art inside of it) have created what amounts to a fetish object. Housed in a 10\" slipcase, this thing has physical heft; and with a 192page book detailing the complete visual history to date of the label, the full Warp set looks more like an item for your shelf. Even the CDs are housed in casebound 10\" folders rather than delicate little sleeves.Inside the box, aside from the perfectbound book, are five sets of music, three of which are also available on their own. Warp20 (Chosen), is a 2xCD set featuring 10 songs selected by warp.net users (from a preselected pool) and 10 selected by Warp cofounder Steve Beckett. Warp20 (Recreated) is a 2xCD collection of new covers of Warp songs by Warp artists. Each of those are out now. Warp20 (Unheard) which comes in the box as a 3x10\" set but starting November 9 will be available on its own as a single CD or LP (as well as included as a digital addon for boxset purchasers) is an 11song gathering of unreleased tracks from Warp stars such as Boards of Canada, Autechre, Broadcast, and Plaid. Also included in the box is Warp20 (Elemental), a 65minute mix of Warp songs by Osymsyo, and Warp20 (Infinite), a 2x10\" set of locked grooves.The original packaging for Warp's IDM template Artificial Intelligence wondered, \"Are you sitting comfortably?\" before claiming that the record of homelistening electronic music was for, among other things, \"quiet nights.\" The same could be said of this set, which works best when you allow yourself to live in it, to fully explore the label rather than simply skim off the top of it. That's true of any vinyl experience to a degree, but Warp's collection is a true pairing of art and sound, rather than one being supplemental to the other. The steady avoidance of fashionable, ephemeral stylistic choices in favor of clean, classic lines and colors makes the look of the set seem remarkably timeless and universal. This is particularly impressive for an electronic imprint, which avoided the temptation to look futuristic or au courant, and has allowed the label to retain a look from earliest singles by Forgemasters and Nightmares on Wax through their 10th and now 20th anniversary sets.When Warp did this whole thing 10 years ago, before the full impact of filesharing, the music was the thing. Back then, Warp compiled three 2xCD sets one of nonWarp techno and house classics, mostly from the halfdecade that immediately preceded their label's launch; one of the label's top work; and one of Warp artists remixing songs from the Warp catalogue. If you somehow have not yet heard Warp's music, that actually might be a better place to start, since you'll therefore almost certainly not have also heard the Chicago and Detroit pioneers that populate that set's first disc.But it's also true that Warp in part succeeded because it hasn't been beholden and overly reverent to the pioneers of techno and house. It avoided the dead end of traditionalism by both breaking from electronic music's dancefloor utilitarianism and embracing artists with wit and charisma over the sometimes monochromatic communalism favored by techno's more faceless producers. It's no surprise then that Warp found many fans outside of dance: Its colorful music tends to emphasize shifts and melodies and complex rhythm structures over the more subtle builds and crescendos of repetitive dance. As Warp has became an influence on rock and hiphop Radiohead most famously championed the label around the turn of the millennium the label wisely invited popstructured acts that carried the spirit and sensibility of electronic music into its fold. It now boasts a roster of not only topnotch electronic producers but also the fussy, prim indie of Grizzly Bear, the looselimbed modern soul of Jamie Lidell, the haunted, avantpop of Broadcast, and the askew hiphop and wonky of Flying Lotus.Picking out highlights from the 20 years would be nearly impossible, so thankfully the label has done it for me. The half of Warp20 (Chosen) selected by fans is music of extremely high quality, but it is also the least essential aspect of the box set. If you're interested in paying for the set, or even if you're interested in adventurous modern music, you're probably pretty well versed in most of its contents. The results of the vote provided the 10 tracks here, and unfortunately older tracks were undervalued, and arguably novelty was overvalued.The fan vote disc is complemented by a disc of tracks chosen by Beckett, which breaks up some of the predictability of the choices and thankfully provides spots for firstdecade favorites like Nightmares on Wax, Seefeel, and Black Dog Productions (here recording as Xeper). Boards of Canada, Squarepusher, Battles, and Aphex Twin make second appearances on the set, but those Beckettchosen selections provide alternate looks at the work of each, and aren't obvious song selections. The exclusion of more primitive early tracks from artists like Sweet Exorcist, Forgemasters, and Tricky Disco is slightly regrettable. But considering that Warp10's best of, Warp10+2, was limited to tracks from 198992 it makes some sense, allowing these discs to work practically as a Volume 2 to that set, with only LFO's \"LFO (Leeds Warehouse Mix)\" and Nightmare on Wax's \"I'm for Real\" appearing on both.Warp20 (Recreated) is the most grabbaggy thing here, at times leaving you wondering why this is a set of covers rather than remixes (see Luke Vibert's take on \"LFO\" for one). Not surprisingly, the tracks here work best when artists start with material that isn't within their comfort zone. Nightmares on Wax's slinky version of the stiff \"Hey Hey Can U Relate?\" is a marvel. Elsewhere, Mira Calix and Autechre manage to rework Boards of Canada and LFO, respectively, without losing either a sense of the original or their own sensibilities. Gravenhurst's take on Broadcast's \"I Found the F\" and Born Ruffians' deconstruction of Aphex Twin's \"Milkman/To Cure a Weakling Child\" are odd clashes on paper that turn out to be highlights. Leila continues the decadelong rehabilitation of Aphex Twin's Drukqs album with a moody, hollow, pianoled take on \"Vordhosbn\", while Jimi Tenor is one of the few artists here who unearthed a relatively lost gem with his redo of Drexciyarelated project Elecktroids' \"Japanese Electronics\". More onthenose things like Jamie Lidell's take on Grizzly Bear's \"Little Brother\" or Tim Exile's take on Lidell's \"A Little Bit More\" don't seem necessary.Osymyso's mix provides a solid overview of the whole label, highlighting the strong universal sensibilities of the founders. Best known for providing himself rigid constructs (his \"IntroInspection\" takes the starts of 100 pop songs and combines them into one 12minute marvel) and changing out tracks quickly, here Osymyso wisely relaxes and lets the tracks play. Warp devotees can still enjoy trainspotting song titles, but if things moved at the pace of some of Osymyso's other work it wouldn't give the less initiated a chance to catch up and locate sounds and shifts. With deft pacing and relative seamless mixing, it also rewards long after that first listen.The unreleased set, Warp20 (Unheard), is limited to 11 wellchosen tracks. The new Boards of Canada song \"Seven Forty Seven\" sounds like Boards of Canada and you're reminded why these guys own this hazy, nostalgic sound. Broadcast, too, have tossed aside the retro albatross and become one of the more singular and consistently excellent artists of our time, and their contribution, \"Sixty Forty\", keeps the winning streak going. Clark provides the tooshort \"Rattlesnake\", Flying Lotus stretches out a bit on the blearyeyed \"Tronix\", and Plaid and Nightmares on Wax each provide a pair of songs. The most consistent record in sound and tone, Warp20 (Unheard) recalls the feel of the Artificial Intelligence comps that helped secure Warp's fame.The locked grooves disc, Warp20 (Infinite), is obviously a specialty item. But with so many of these tracks built on repetition to start, it's a natural albeit esoteric fit. And if you ever wanted to play \"Atlas\" by Battles or \"On\" by Aphex Twin forever, now you can. Hilariously, this leaked as mp3s for some reason.Warp has long staked out its own ground online, fussy and protective of its product. The label opened its own Warpmart early in the digital music era rather than do so via a third party, and it doesn't seem to subscribe to the idea that just offering free shit all over the web is good for its artists. Part of the reason is Warp's big wigs care about sound and presentation, and it shows. Warp20 (Box) is another reminder of the thought that goes into what they do not just the records they release, but the total package of the label. It's one reason they've survived for two decades.Another reason, aside from the obvious (a good ear; a willingness to regard their artists as family, giving them license to record at their own pace without regard for their bankability), is that they've slowly and organically adapted to the growing indie and dance worlds. Nominally known first as a center for the blippier end of rave, and then as the home of IDM, Warp has made wise, cautious steps toward embracing other sounds and styles. IDM itself, seen as a fad with a sneeredat tag, has proved endurable. Indeed, one of the stories of indie this decade is that mocked sounds from the margins freakfolk, dancepunk, electroclash/nurave wound up becoming central to the whole. IDM is practically the grandfather of this trend, and the best of its music outlasted the name, until the textures and sounds that once necessitated new descriptions no longer had to be boxed in. If Boards of Canada, Squarepusher, Authechre, Black Dog/Plaid, and Aphex Twin may have once been IDM musicians, today they're just individual artists making beloved music, more known for their own singular styles than as part of an umbrella trend.Warp has outlasted conceptual and contextual constructs in ways that are rare in the electronic world, where music is often tagged as easily dated. Throughout Warp's history, care in the construction of sound is important, so are syncopated rhythms, wit and whimsy, and the blending the abstract and the melodic. In the end, that there are no shortcuts to defining a Warp sound; that they are a fully trusted brand name that doesn't embrace 21st century eclecticism for the hell of it is admirable and rare. It may have been unthinkable 20 years ago that an electronic music imprint would still be around today, but it's no surprise Warp made it. And if music labels are still around in another 20, it would be no surprise if Warp was one of the survivors of these times as well. "}