{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14684/homepage_large.624666ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Matias Aguayo","title":"Ay Ay Ay","text":" This review was going to write itself: \"Matias Aguayo killed minimal dead,\" it would read, this on the heels of Aguayo's 2008 star turn, \"Minimal\", in which he convicted his home genre of growing stale. It was an easy plotline: The man who helped popularize and expand minimal a seminal contributor, as one half of Closer Musik, to Kompakt's early discography, and author of 2005's stillunderheard Are You Really Lost would, with Ay Ay Ay, reorder our expectations for minimal's future. Ay Ay Ay explodes that meme, however, with an album so far removed from Aguayo's past it's a record of maximal, fermented oddity that it borders on the bizarre.Ay Ay Ay is an album composed mostly of the human voice, continuing Aguayo's penchant for silly/sexy singspeak but filling out the rest of the compositions with throaty squelches, tripletracked a cappella nonsense, and sampled chants. More than simply \"that techno guy who sings,\" Aguayo seems to have developed a childlike fascination with the human voice on par with Timbaland, Rahzel, or (frequent collaborator) DJ Koze. Because of its sparse percussion, preponderance of voices chatting, yelling, singing and Chileanborn Aguayo's tendency to sing in Spanish, Ay Ay Ay often feels like world music, though less in a 1980sBordersBooksandMusicendcap sense and more because it sounds welltraveled and totally foreign.Foreign as in unfamiliar: Ay Ay Ay sounds like no other album this year, and it's no stretch to say it's one of the most outofcharacter releases ever for Kompakt. Any discussion of musical influence almost seems superfluous, however, as Aguayo spends much of Ay Ay Ay proving his credentials as an inspired goofball. Lead track \"Menta Latte\", which barrels out of the gate with whumping bass voices, sounds like a group of skilled six yearolds putting Saturday morning to song. \"Koro Koro\" is Sowetostyle pop undercut by compressed, clacking beats. The title track is stepping tropic pop. The clingy \"Rollerskate\" is disarmingly coherent in its form and presumed function: it sounds like rollerskating.\"Rollerskate\" is easily the most parseable jam; I don't speak Spanish, but Aguayo's history indicates that the rest of the lyrics are husky shittalk and/or crappy comeons. It's hard to wonder what else would fit into the humhumgrind of \"Desde Rusia\" or the TalkingHeadsonE of \"Ritmo Tres\".If Aguayo's electronic background rears its head, it does so abstractly, as long stretches of the hourlong Ay Ay Ay can dissolve into prattling soundsoups, the clicks and thumps of the producer's previous work replaced with tonguesnaps and party favor whoops (\"Mucho Viento\"). Despite the expectations for the record, Ay Ay Ay doesn't redraw the lines of minimal electronic music. Naturally, it's not trying to. It does reroute our conception of Aguayo, however. Ay Ay Ay is a stickysweet, unbounded mess, but only the priggish and unimaginative will hold that against it. "}