{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14691/homepage_large.c14ed5c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cosmo Lee","artist":"Pyramids With Nadja","title":"Pyramids With Nadja","text":" Pyramids With Nadja is a most natural pairing. Last year Pyramids, a Denton, Texas, outfit, debuted with a record that sounded as if A Storm in Heavenera Verve and Blut aus Nord (a French black metal act known for warping sounds in the studio) left master tracks for their albums at the same mixing desk for an unsuspecting engineer to sort out. The result was a mess: blotches of ambience, snatches of vocals, and heavily treated guitars splayed over drum machines pitterpatting this way and that. Fortunately, the album came with a second disc of remixes by Jesu, Blut aus Nord, Birchville Cat Motel, and others. Though necessarily disjointed, the disc showed the potential of collaboration with more focused outsiders.Ironically, Nadja have also needed an editor. The Toronto shoegaze duo has issued over 20 releases in the past two years. Most are good listens, though Nadja's methodology virtually precludes producing duds. Guitar, bass, and synths go through software and effects, producing an overtonerich, distorted soup. The tonalities involved are not especially challenging; strip away the technology, and you have pretty chords and melodies. Technology simply adds an element of randomness that helps to make them more prolific.After collaboration with likeminded acts Fear Falls Burning, Atavist, and Black Boned Angel, Nadja could have churned out yet another enjoyablebutforgettable effort. Instead, working with Pyramids has produced something remarkably focused. Pyramids With Nadja is still expansive it spreads four tracks across almost 58 minutes but it is not something to get lost in. Listeners will always know where they are.The key is vocals. They're not the greatest or worst vocals in the world; they sound like Thom Yorke wandering by the abovementioned mixing desk. But they add a human element to the technology, providing time markers and textural contrast. Pop music often operates through tension and release between vocal and instrumental sections. This record dilates that interplay across long periods of time. It unfolds quite gradually. \"Into the Silent Waves\" is really a 10minute introduction, massaging in drones and noise until it reaches a stirring density worthy of its name. Vocals enter in the next track, sounding like one of those freetempo Bono vocal intros in late1980s/early90s U2. But instead of dropping into a pop song, the intro hangs and stretches into a gloriously timefree taffy.Another source of tension and release is piano. Along with vocals, the acoustic instrument provides an unadorned counterpoint to all the technology at work. Notes tinkle here and there, yielding a clean, naked feeling. Sometimes distortion surges in oceanic swells, and sometimes it falls away to small instrumental gestures. Such contrast is refreshing. So much of socalled \"metalgaze\" or modern shoegaze is really newage music with distortion. Introduction of clearly defined dynamics is almost revolutionary until one remembers that the best of the original 90s shoegaze bands still wrote proper, robust songs. "}