{"label":" Bear Funk","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14683/homepage_large.8cde7361.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Bottin","title":"Horror Disco","text":" Almost three years ago, Justice sampled Italian prog band Goblin on their second single, \"Phantom\". If the Frenchhouse headbangers wanted to show they could weld metal's gothic nightmarishness onto disco's giddy dancefloor excess, they could hardly have made a better symbolic choice. After creating classic film soundtracks for horror auteur Dario Argento with Goblin starting in the mid1970s, keyboard player Claudio Simonetti went on to help pioneer what is now lovingly known as Italo disco. Horror, disco okay, you've met.If cinematic scariness and electronic dance music were ever strange bedfellows, they certainly aren't anymore. Since \"Phantom\", Justicestyle floor pummelers from Kavinsky to CFCF have acknowledged Goblin's influence. The band itself reunited for European live shows and a new album in recent years. And the guys behind German house and techno label Kompakt just started a new imprint, Fright, citing Goblin's Simonetti and Halloween filmscorer John Carpenter as touchstones. Within this burgeoning micromovement, Venice's William Bottin has shown moments of demonic mastery, but his fulllength debut, Horror Disco, rarely makes you jump out of your seat.Wielding a Farfisa Syntorchestra synth like a slashermovie villain brandishing a murder weapon, Bottin comes up with an album that is more about a spooky mood and quirky sonics than hypnotically pristine repetitions. No surprise, then, that excellent single \"No Static\" first emerged on darkly atmospheric New Jersey label Italians Do It Better; spacey arpeggios interlap and unfold seamlessly, subtle cries of \"don't stop\" and \"can do it\" giving this the feel of a contender for Nike's \"Run\" series. \"Sciarando El Scuro\" is the most earcatching track after \"No Static\", its chirpy hook less poltergeist than poultrygeist.From there, Horror Disco remains deeply reverent of horror and retrofuturist film music, with plenty of solid grooves to offer DJs, but not quite enough personality to make for a completely satisfying home listen. The stuttering rhythms and horn fanfares of \"Venezia Violenta\", the Halloweenesque repetitions of ominous finale \"Endless Mother\", and the creepy vocoder warnings of \"Slashdance\" are never unpleasant, but they're not exactly thrilling, either. Underscoring Horror Disco's revivalist tendencies is \"Disco for the Devil\", which features matteroffact mayhem from Douglas Meakin, who sang for some of Simonetti's Italo disco projects.As (dig the name) Black Devil Disco Club have shown, nudisco doesn't have to be novel to be good, but it should usually be entertaining. Horror Disco proves Bottin knows his craft, and the standout tracks are worthwhile even for Italo disco noobs, but there's too much dull drift here to let me recommend it unreservedly for your 2010 Halloween party especially with so much similarly minded disco spookiness out there. After all, at 78 minutes, Horror Disco is already eight minutes longer than the Flaming Lips' sprawling new doublealbum. As great as Embryonic is, that's still a little scary. "}