{"label":" ABKCO","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14700/homepage_large.e482d339.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"The Rolling Stones","title":"Get Yer Ya-Ya's Out! The Rolling Stones in Concert [40th Anniversary Deluxe Box Set]","text":" If the Rolling Stones really were the World's Greatest Rock and Roll Band for the better part of the 1960s and 70s, then surely somewhere along the line they must've released one of the great live albums of all time too, right? This rationale is the only way I can account for the fact that the Stones' bestregarded live release, 1970's definitely pleasurable but lessthantranscendent Get Yer YaYa's Out!, routinely places highly on lists of the best concert documents in rock history. It feels like the kind of perfunctory acknowledgment that virtually all of the other typically highranking sets (for instance, Neil Young's Live Rust, the Who's Live at Leeds, and the Allman Brothers Band's At Fillmore East) don't need, seeing as how they're genuinely awesome.Live performance never seemed as intrinsic to the Rolling Stones' essence as it did for most of 60s and 70s rock's other heavy hitters. Sure, as soon as playing basketball arenas became a viable rockstar option the alwaysavaricious Stones rushed to embrace the financial potentialities, but the group's music never cultivated the kind of epic, transformative breadth that best fills an enormous space like Madison Square Garden, where YaYa's was recorded. Big venues demand that everything else be larger than life as well, but outsized song lengths (think the Grateful Dead, Allmans, Led Zep), outsized emotions (the Who, U2), and outsized spectacle (KISS, David Bowie) have never been indispensable components of the Stones' music. It's not for nothing that some of the band's most cherished officially sanctioned live work happens to be the El Mocambo club stuff from 1977's Love You Live as well as 1995's intimate Stripped.Nonetheless, YaYa's persists as the Stones' goto concert recording, so it's hardly a surprise to see the band now putting out a deluxe, 3xCD/DVD reissue of the twonight event. Unfortunately, as a purchasable product, this $60retailing set ($41.99 on Amazon) is damn near felonious. Disc One is the original album itself, remastered, though keep in mind it was already given the SACD treatment in 2002. Disc Two is a grand total of five tracks recordings of the tracks the Stones played those two nights that didn't make the album proper. Disc Three is material from opening acts B.B. King and Ike and Tina Turner, and ironically enough it may the part of the box that's most worth getting excited about particularly the devastating way Tina digs into Otis Redding's classic \"I've Been Loving You Too Long\". Disc Four is a DVD, which seems pretty enticing until you realize it only captures performances of the same five songs that were on Disc Two. Why, at the very least, a disc couldn't have been assembled that put the songs in the order in which they were actually originally played is beyond me.Now, by denigrating this YaYa's reissue as a commodity and by questioning the album's canonization in general, I don't mean to imply this set doesn't cook. Even if it's not larded with 20minute workouts, YaYa's is manna for guitar freaks, thanks to the fiery interplay between the immortal Keith Richards and inarguably the greatest lead guitarist the Stones ever boasted, Mick Taylor. \"Under My Thumb\" and \"Live with Me\" feature wondrously rejiggered riffs, while \"Love in Vain\", \"Street Fighting Man\", and \"Sympathy for the Devil\" soar with brilliant solos (two solos in the case of \"Sympathy\"). Rhythmically, the whole set (aside from a twosong acoustic blues interlude) coagulates into one long, sweaty, irresistible throb.All that said, the fault for YaYa's falling just short of the Pantheon must then lie at the feet of Mick Jagger. In the studio, Jagger has always had time and takes to work a wealth of subtle ironic nuances into his readings, but Madison Square Garden isn't the place for nuance. As the Stones became less sexy and stylish in the 80s, Jagger's routine grew more goofily athletic, and the gigantic football stadiums the band preferred were perfect conduits for his crowdpleasing mugging and gymnastics. In 1969, however, image and venue failed to mesh, and Jagger just seems to lack fire and imagination, aside from lasciviously dropping the age of the sexually uncaged teenage girl in \"Stray Cat Blues\" from Beggars Banquet's 15 to the Roman Polanskiapproved 13. For the most part, however, Jagger fails to recognize that this was the band's moment, and that unawareness of YaYa's epochal promise is the primary thing that keeps the album from truly belonging alongside the preeminent aural snapshots in rock history. "}