{"label":" Young Money Entertainment","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14695/homepage_large.d122ae90.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Lil Wayne","title":"No Ceilings","text":" No Ceilings. Nice title. Nice concept, too. Here's Wayne explaining it, on one of his new mixtape's blessedly few skits: \"I would love for you to look up into the building and understand that there is no ceilings; there is only the sky.\" And in his case, it's true; Wayne's potential greatness seems to have no limit or if it does have a limit, it's difficult to say what it might be. Wayne's tough to evaluate because he's so very rarely operating at peak capacity. Whereas a classically great rapper (Ready to Dieera Biggie, say) might hammer his concepts straight on until he's bludgeoned them into atoms, Wayne barely ever has any concepts, hopscotching frantically but lazily between ideas and chasing digressions down gopher holes. Wayne's digressive, distracted spirit is a huge part of what makes him great; even at his Carter II peak, he was always slippery and unpredictable and defiantly weird. But ever since he indisputably became the most popular rapper in the world last year, he's been in a strange zone, trusting his instincts to the point where he's now preparing to drop a whole album of somebody's idea of rock on us. And his instincts are, more often than not, bad. Add that to his purportedly staggering drug use and his upcoming prison sentence, and it's tough to tell just how far he could fall. Wayne's got no ceilings, but he's got no floors either.And given the increasingly scattered nature of his postCarter III work, the existence of No Ceilings is just a tremendous relief. After last year's wildly disappointing Dedication 3, Wayne's finally back to something like his Dedication 2/Drought 3 fighting shape and doing what he does best, swiping beats from all the songs on rap radio and rendering the originals obsolete. Pity F.L.Y. and Dorrough after what Wayne did to \"Swag Surfin'\" and \"Ice Cream Paint Job\". Beats like those are where Wayne traditionally comes off best; those cheap, tense, springy synthetic tracks make Wayne's berserk rasp sound something like catharsis. Wayne's got no compunctions about snatching up a middling regional dancerap minihit, and that appetite serves him well. When you throw him on something busier and biggerbudget like JayZ's \"D.O.A.\" or \"Run This Town\", he doesn't sound quite as at home. So it's fortunate that Wayne still has a bug up his ass about Jay. On those two tracks, he just goes absolutely ripshit, throwing slick subliminals at Jay or just laughing Jay's barbs off. At least on mixtapes, Wayne doesn't have Jay's drive to build eternal monuments to his own importance; he's free to just spazz out. So, on \"Run This Town\": \"New Orleans Coroner, his name is Frank Minyard/ Fuck with me wrong, you'll be waking up in his yard.\" (A Google search confirms that New Orleans' Coroner is indeed named Frank Minyard. Wayne: Backing up his insane threats with verifiable facts!)In some intriguing ways, the rise of Gucci Mane presents an interesting challenge to this sort of Wayne mixtape. Gucci represents an evolution of Wayne's freeassociative style, one simultaneously spacier and more focused. Gucci has none of Wayne's cursory desire for acceptance from NY trueschoolers, and he favors the kind of dinky, catchy budget beats that Wayne loves stealing on tapes like these. Wayne raps over three Gucci tracks on No Ceilings, as well as one from Gucci associate Waka Flocka, but he doesn't treat these tracks like challenges the way he does with the Jay songs. He probably should, since the Gucci songs are the rare mixtape tracks where Wayne can't erase the memory of the originals.And No Ceilings certainly has its problems. Wayne might never again sound as flatout committed as he did on Dedication 2. His punchlines don't always carry the same impact, and he's more likely to laugh at his own jokes. He shares valuable mic time with tolerable nonentities like Lucci Lou and Gudda Gudda. He picks a few tracks like the Black Eyed Peas' \"I Gotta Feeling\", songs that just aren't conducive to great rapping. He swipes a few terrible sexrap tracks and makes slightly less terrible sexrap tracks out of them, though even those will dependably include a few appealingly loony lines (\"I get it wetter than bass pussy\" is supposed to be seductive?). He's not quite the animal he was.But No Ceilings once again finds Wayne in total control of beats, motivated and sliding freely between ideas. He pronounces \"alps\" and \"stealth\" and \"milf\" like they all rhyme with each other. He's scatological: \"I'm on some shit ain't even been out the ass yet.\" He's haughty: \"Elevator in my crib cause it's five floors/ I'm not expecting you to have one inside yours.\" He's on his halfsensical pop culture shit: \"I get big chips; you get Alvins.\" He's capable of coming up with lines that get stuck in your head for no conceivable reason: \"I'm flyer than the highest flying bird around this ho.\" He's frankly disgusting: \"I made the pussy gleek.\" And with the twin trials of prison and Rebirth looming, it's just enormously gratifying to hear that he still knows how to rap, that he loves doing it. After all, nobody does it like him. "}