{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14715/homepage_large.46604b1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Starless & Bible Black","title":"Shape of the Shape","text":" Shape of the Shape, the second fulllength by the Manchester trio Starless & Bible Black, is the kind of followup that prompts listeners to immediately revisit the debut, just in order to doublecheck that this is in fact still the same band. And yes, the personnel is the same as on the band's selftitled 2006 album, but here the group's general strategy seems to have shifted drastically. Gone, for the most part, are the debut's predominantly acoustic instruments and eclectic, Pentanglelike folkrock. Instead, Shape of the Shape draws upon a rather weird combination of cosmic country and spaceage Moog drones, resulting in a sound that is considerably more distinctive and almost wholly unexpected.After some time spent with Shape of the Shape, of course, traces of continuity do reveal themselves. The songs here are still largely centered on the dusky alto of Frenchborn Hélène Gautier, and several tracks, such as the opening \"Say Donny Say\", have a basic structure that echoes English and Appalachian folk tradition. Beyond that, however, Starless & Bible Black take virtually every opportunity to change things up. On the debut, Raz Ullah's vintage electronics were used largely to add background accent and effect; here they are much more integrated into the proceedings, with his varied drones providing essential foundational support beneath Gautier's vocals and Peter Phillipson's bracing Telecaster.If Starless & Bible Black were not actually British, it would be fairly easy to classify several tracks here as Americana and be done with it. (The album was recorded in a village hall in the Snowdonian mountains, so apparently it comes by its rustic, panoramic vision honestly.) Following a brief electronic introduction that seems delivered straight from the BBC Radiophonic Workshop, the fractured countryrock \"Say Donny Say\" crackles like a broken telegraph line, while the drollytitled \"Country Heir\" allows Gautier a chance at lovesick balladry. On these simpler tracks, Ullah's vintage synths often occupy the same tonal space that would traditionally belong to pedal steel, a subtle variation that enables the songs to sound at once familiar and yet vaguely alien.As the album progresses, however, these familiar landmarks become increasingly harder to spot, especially on \"Les Furies\", the album's nineminute space/prog/country centerpiece. It's a howling whirl of Moog and country guitar, jazzy interludes, and Gautier's layered, Cocteau Twinslike vocals: suffice it to say that this is a daring piece, and it ends appropriately enough with the sound of incredulous laughter in the studio. For the occasion, Ullah really puts his full electronic arsenal to use, recalling some of Garth Hudson's crazier \"Chest Fever\" showcases with the Band, although with a decidedly artier, more European bent.Astonishing as \"Les Furies\" is, its general strangeness does risk making the rest of the album seem rather too tame in comparison. Fortunately, Starless & Bible Black have the songwriting chops to hold the listener's interest even when their sonics are more earthbound. Gautier's lyrics are elusive, in part due to the way she slips almost invisibly between French and English, but the melodic hooks on songs such as \"Your Majesty Man\" and the wistful \"Year of Dalmatians\" are substantial enough to ensure return visits. And the group even sees fit to throw in the folkjazz instrumental \"Popty Ping\", almost as a reminder that they can still expertly go the Pentangle route when the mood suits them, although as this album illustrates they would usually prefer a path of their own invention. "}