{"label":" Agriculture","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14709/homepage_large.96a4378f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"DJ /rupture / Matt Shadetek","title":"Solar Life Raft","text":" After blowing minds with his 2008 survey of global bass music, Uproot, Brooklyn's DJ /rupture shifted gears with Patches, a mix of live recordings with the Ex guitarist Andy Moor. In some ways, the two albums were opposites. Uproot flowed like water, while Patches, with its live guitars and abrasive textures, scorched like fire. On Solar Life Raft, Rupture works with Matt Shadetek, with whom he runs the fledgling Dutty Artz imprint, and who contributed his breathtaking dub remix of Iron Shirt's \"I Gave You All My Love\" to Uproot. You might expect another new collaborator to give rise to another new style, but the album backtracks over Uproot's wellexcavated terrain instead.Solar Life Raft is heavy on deformed, quaking bass, with a variety of remixes, original content, and tweaked lifts, built in real time into a hulking apparatus. It also uses brief leftfield surprises as ligaments, oases, and headcrackers: An excerpt from Nico Muhly's Mothertongue stands in for Uproot's Ekkehard Ehlers drop, and 30 seconds of Luc Ferrari's strident computer noise bridges \"4th Story Waterline\", a sinuous original production, and an airy but tuff Shadetek remix of Jahdan Blakkamoore's \"Long Road\". If Uproot felt like it was establishing a new template, Solar Life Raft follows one one of its creator's own devising, but a template nevertheless.The selections are mostly excellent, although once in awhile, concept trumps efficacy it's really neat that the poet Elizabeth Alexander, who read at Obama's inauguration, appears on the record, but her flat delivery is only tangentially musical. The use of poetry is much more effective on \"More Pets\", where Caroline Bergvall recites cheery nonsense about animals in a voice as fluent and mellifluous as the music. And the mixing is, of course, excellent. With two turntables, our sense of space remains somewhat flat this happens over here and that happens over there, with only a lateral distance implied. Rupture's threeturntable approach adds another plane, breaking that narrow tunnel wide open.The album embodies the maxim \"live locally, think globally.\" Geographically diverse selections from Paavoharju, Mizz Beats (\"Blue Night\", an album standout), and Timeblind rub shoulders with Brooklyn natives like Telepathe, Blakkamoore, and Gang Gang Dance, who get a fleet remix of \"Bebey\". Even globetrotting DJs have to tighten their belts in this economy. The whole thing was recorded in Brooklyn, where Shadetek also lives. He's been touted as the gritty pugilist to Rupture's tweedy chinstroker, but that's probably an overstatement for convenience: This is a guy who named one of his albums, Pale Fire, after a Nabokov novel.The record opens with a splicing \"mashup\" does not do the transaction justice of Timeblind's \"Space Cadet\" and Shadetek's \"Strength in Numbers\". If you're unfamiliar with the original tracks, good luck figuring out where one ends and the other begins. You'll be surprised when you look them up. (Spoiler: the ruffling ambiance belongs to Timeblind, while the confettithrowing reggae horns are Shadetek's.) The same goes for Stagga's \"The Bad Dance\" and Babylon System's \"Get on Up\" it's not about just matching up bpms; the tracks get fully fieldstripped and then recoupled with new functionality. The original productions rough out the poles the album navigates, from the bendy bass of collaboration \"Underwater High Rise\" to the haunting ambiance of Rupture original \"El Verdugo\". It's a thoroughly enjoyable album that rewards many listens, even if it does feel a bit, to borrow from Ghostface, like it could've been called More Uproot. But as someone who still spins last year's Rupture regularly, I can certainly live with that. "}