{"label":" Dangerbird","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14707/homepage_large.4ead1180.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Division Day","title":"Visitation","text":" They may claim Santa Cruz, Calif., as their hometown, but Division Day can't help but sound as if their hearts are rooted elsewhere: specifically, in Omaha, circa 1999. Their debut fulllength, 2007's Beartrap Island, was tricked out with all manner of artpop production flourishes, but all the atmospheric whooshes and vaguely dubby drum sounds in the world couldn't disguise the good ol' cornfed American emo heart beating at the music's center. When they stuck with this basic impulse, they gathered momentum; the rest of the time, they lingered in muddier waters, coming across as a betterthanaverage average rock band with some grand ambitions.Their second fulllength, Visitation, doubles down on the artrock signifiers, which means, unfortunately, it also doubles the production effects those whooshes are now accompanied by billowing synths, glitchy bursts of noise, sirenlike blares, and seven or eight different vocal filters. It's a somewhat disorienting look for what is basically meatandpotatoes guitar rock, and it doesn't do these guys many favors. The scrapyard drums of opener \"Reservoir\" immediately set the agenda. \"Devil Light\", meanwhile, is pockmarked with slowedtape noises and bursts of static, with harp and celesta glimmering in the background, and yet it still sounds what it is a niceenough midtempo rocker. The same goes for \"Carrier\"; despite a massive wall of synths quivering in the background, the vocal melody is straight prom slowdance material, right down to the softly glowing saxophone solo.Division Day don't write bad songs, or ones that lack hooks or decent melodies. The problem is that this stuff is just too smooth and inoffensive for its layers upon layers of studio trickery. Even on the off moments when the band manages to work up some abrasive energy, Rohner Segnitz's glassy, featureless voice pours a big pot of Sleepytime Tea all over it see \"Malachite\", which manages to sound vaguely King Crimsonesque right up until the exact moment the vocals enter. Too much of Visitation lingers in draggy, pofaced ballads, making the false equation between slowing down and Saying Something Important.The brisk, thrumming \"Reservoir\", which recalls the martial thrust of Bloc Party's \"Like Eating Glass\", is one of the album's most invigorating moments, and Visitation could use more of them. \"Surrender\", another of the record's handful of uptempo numbers, is also one of the only songs that benefits from its processed sound, its clanking industrial drums recalling a more streamlined version of Radiohead's \"15 Step\". Most of the time, though, the record's stagey atmosphere does little service to Division Day's earnest melodic gifts, and it reminds me of the Promise Ring's illadvised bid for artpop legitimacy with 2002's snoozy Wood/Water. Division Day would be doing us a favor with the more straightforward route next time; the world needs reliable emo bands more than it needs charismachallenged artrock hopefuls. "}