{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14722/homepage_large.78e0cf01.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Annie","title":"Don't Stop","text":" Annie's second album, Don't Stop, was supposed to come out last year, and for the Norwegian singer's netsavvy audience, it basically did. The version of the record that is being commercially released now is a bit different from what leaked in 2008 a few tracks have been cut, a few more have been added but since it is being released with a bonus disc that includes every notable excluded track save for her cover of Stacey Q's \"Two of Hearts\", the final product is less glasshalfempty and more cuprunnethover. Her final running order for the album proper is certainly an artistic statement worth taking seriously, but we all know that our experience with this music has been and will continue to be a flexible thing, so why should the boundaries of plastic discs matter so much for an artist so closely associated with mp3s?Even if CD releases and official track listings are formal considerations that are not entirely significant to Annie's context as a star in a largely theoretical Internet pop universe, it's almost impossible to engage with any version of Don't Stop without thinking about what is \"missing.\" The most notable omissions from Don't Stop are its topnotch lead single \"I Know UR Girlfriend Hates Me\" and its Italodisco followup \"Anthonio\", each cowritten and produced by Hannah Robinson and Richard X, the duo who previously collaborated with Annie on the excellent Anniemal tracks \"Chewing Gum\" and \"Me Plus One\". Though these songs were cut, ostensibly in the interest of keeping the album fresh, it's perplexing to remove such strong material. To make matters worse, the only track from Robinson and X to make it to the official Don't Stop is the clear highlight \"Songs Remind Me of You\". This is a strange thing: If Annie has so much proven chemistry with these two writers, why isn't she doing more with them?At least part of the answer to that question is that she's been busy working with other producers, namely Girls Aloud masterminds Xenomania, Bloc Party and the Rapture collaborator Paul Epworth, and Timo Kaukolampi, who cowrote a majority of her debut. Each has a distinct aesthetic, but there is enough balance and common ground in the arrangements that Epworth's sleek electro and Kaukolampi's dense rhythms are complemented rather than overwhelmed by Xenomania's hyperactive hooks. That's not always the case for Annie herself, though. Her demure yet sassy voice is flattered by the production team's efforts on the zippy \"My Love Is Better\" and the cutesy \"Heaven and Hell\", but she's flattened by \"Loco\", a terrific song that is nonetheless so Xenomaniabynumbers that it simply sounds like a Girls Aloud single dropped in the middle of an Annie album. It's not all her fault, though. The Xenomania sound is just so overpowering that you'd never guess that Alex Kapranos and Nick McCarthy of Franz Ferdinand happen to play on the track as well.Though the Xenomania cuts are all of goodtogreat quality, Paul Epworth's tracks are far more successful in emphasizing Annie's character. \"Hey Annie\", a song not present on the original leaked version of Don't Stop, kicks the record off with layered rhythms and spare synthesizer accents that allow her usually wispy voice to be the richest, most alluring element in the arrangement. Whereas the Xenomania crew seem indifferent to her limitations as a vocalist, Epworth is good at finding ways to highlight her best qualities the gentle wit, the worldliness in her girlish tone while keeping the emphasis placed firmly on grooves. \"Hey Annie\", along with Epworth productions \"I Don't Like Your Band\" and \"Don't Stop\" are the songs that are most effective as dance music rather than perky Europop. That said, Kaukolampi's \"The Breakfast Song\" strives for dance floor utility, but unfortunately its blunt, insistent chorus \"What do you WANT? What do you want for BREAKFAST?\" comes out sounding like a maddening jingle for the Scandinavian equivalent of IHOP. His other contributions are respectable but not particularly exciting, though \"Take You Home\" does provide a dark center for a record generally lacking in melancholy and heavy moods.It is standard practice for modern pop records to be assembled in this sort of piecemeal fashion, but Annie's choice of collaborators is very deliberate, both in terms of curatorial taste, and in finding the right artists to achieve the specific end of assembling a dynamic album. Though it is typically the producer and cowriter's job to bring out the best in the star, Annie's best work has a way of encapsulating the appeal of her partners, whether it's showcasing Richard X's gift for giving 1980s pop aesthetics a modern makeover, or Xenomania's glossy, supercharged poprock hybrid. Not every song on Don't Stop or its bonus All Night EP is a classic, but Annie's good taste has yielded another fine crop of pop tunes. As with anything else these days, how you listen to this music is entirely up to you, but there is more than enough excellent material here to customize your own version of the record, slip your favorite tracks into a playlist, or you know, listen exactly as Annie intends. "}