{"label":" Rvng Intl.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14725/homepage_large.410d17a3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Pink Skull","title":"Endless Bummer","text":" New York's RVNG boutique has long distinguished itself for not only its expertly curated mixes, but also its imaginative packaging. When Philly mainstays Julian Grefe and Justin Geller, core duo behind disco freaks Pink Skull, put together the first Rvng Prsnts mix back in 2002, they recorded it straight to CDR and did the printing at Kinko's. Each copy of Endless Bummer, Pink Skull's second album (first for RVNG), comes handtypeset with a different \"bummer\" real depressing shit like \"BUTT ACNE\" or \"NUCLEAR WARFARE.\" I got \"JOHNHUGHESDIED.\"In a year of summery newmusic releases and celebrity deaths, Endless Bummer is neither glofi/chillwave trendfuck nor downer. Pink Skull's last album, 2008's Zeppelin 3, was a sprawling journey through psych, krautrock, Chicago house, rave, and other styles you might hope for on a killer RVNG mix. Jumping between live disco and acid house, with plenty of unexpected turns along the way, Endless Bummer is just as varied and transportative. It's also (relatively) focused. Recorded by Mazarin's Quentin Stoltzfus at the studio of Clap Your Hands Say Yeah's Alec Ounsworth, the release is available on mp3 and vinyl, with digitalonly bonus tracks.Multiple online reports have suggested that Pink Skull got a full band together only prior to this album, but that's not the case. Grefe, Geller, and their abettors had actually expanded into a working live unit by 2007, and Zeppelin 3's dusty, freeform grooves the type of percussive dancepunk explorations that make you feel !!! drummer Jerry Fuchs' death all the more acutely get a wild and woolly reprise here. On the nearinstrumental title track, for example, a variety of multilayered, South Americanflavored percussion parts support skronky sax and synths that alternately screech and lull.A bigger change since Pink Skull's last outing that rare album to feature vocals from both Mirah and Ghostface Killah is the new prevalence of Grefe's own singing, with guests' higherpitched harmonies balancing out his gruff manvoice. Those vocals are nevertheless the weakest part about opener \"Peter Cushing\", a limber discofunk swooner that trades Zeppelin 3's music references for film references, but it's an elaborately realized production that would sit nicely beside something from DFA or Modular. Ostinato bass drives the sweeping, majestic \"Oh, Monorail\", as Grefe wryly asserts, \"You know I hate songs about nightlife.\"True to the idea of an album that is more than a collection of dance singles, the contemplative moments on Endless Bummer make return trips more rewarding. Each side of the album closes with elegant ambient synth pieces, while \"Circling Bwi\" toys with disembodied harmonies. The flutetrilling \"Fast Forward to Bolivia, 2000 Years Later, Our Hero Finds Himself...\" could score a futuristic update of that old Disney cartoon The Three Caballeros. A track with an even longer title floats a melodic synth line recalling Aphex Twin over complex drum programming. Endless Bummer won't bring John Hughes back, but it would make a hell of a DJ mix. Maybe even cure butt acne. "}