{"label":" Interscope / Allido","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14718/homepage_large.8e3adfad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Wale","title":"Attention Deficit","text":" It's no secret that the Internet is hurting rappers. Hurting their record sales. Hurting their ability to control narrative. And, perhaps most crucially, hurting their ability to selfedit. Flip cam freestyles, trackaday mixtapes, local radio interviews delivered worldwide. Reining it in has never been more difficult. To his credit, Wale has appeared to be in clear control of his output. In the space of three years he's released three proper mixtapes: 2007's giddy grab bag 100 Miles & Running, 2008's triumphant and savvy The Mixtape About Nothing, and this year's modest  Back to the Feature. But even that tempered rollout may have been too much. Wale's proper solo debut, Attention Deficit, feels like a mishmash of those three tapes, flashing greatness but almost never transcending, and always sounding effortful. Has he said too much already?Initially positioned as a refreshing rejoinder in a new generation of rappers, Wale was never fit for saviordom. He's said the Roots' Black Thought is his favorite MC. That's about right: technically gifted, occasionally thrilling, mostly destined to be a cog in a machine. Attention Deficit seems to ignore that, especially on the front end. What's made so many rap debuts successful is a fluidity, a connectivity from moment to moment. Wale's been slapped with the dreaded \"no personality\" tag in recent months. The opposite is true: Wale seems to jump constantly from persona to persona.Opener \"Triumph\", a terrific, Afrobeatinspired production by TV on the Radio's Dave Sitek, indicates this will be a sonic adventure. It's not particularly. \"Mama Told Me\" is a sort of postKanye reflection on how difficult it is coming up in the game, namedropping people in his life whose names you will not recognize. It's been done before and better. \"Mirrors\" is sonically consistent squealing horns and downlow bass but also features that triedandtrue rap trope: the Bun B feature. It's negligible. \"Pretty Girls\" is an ode to women via his native Washington D.C. sound, produced by longtime partner Best Kept Secret, sampling legendary GoGo crew the Backyard Band, and featuring that group's Weensey. It's a classic hiphop raveup, loose and fun. And then Atlanta's Gucci Mane shows up. Wasn't this supposed to be a D.C. anthem? \"World Tour\" is typically bland, R&B divaled (in this case Jazmine Sullivan) nostalgiastroking patter. \"Let It Loose\" is the Pharrell record. Six songs in and we're hitting all the bases, without any sense of what it means to be Wale.The second half reveals a bit more: Wale is obsessed with women, whether recounting the story of a cokeaddicted fameball on Mark Ronson's delicate \"90210\", or emotionally thrashing over an ex on the loping, gorgeous \"Diary\". He is distinctly interested in the female experience, even if the subject is launching him into paranoia by refusing to pick up the phone at 4 a.m. on a Saturday night. This is a unique gift I can't recall the last time an MC seemed so tapped into a woman's perspective while still feeling the chill of romantic strain. Sitek returns with the astounding \"TV in the Radio\", a song that both convinced me of K'Naan as a serious rapper (debatable until now) and positioned Wale properly in the mix, rapidly firing syllables like a semiautomatic. It's a bravura performance.\"Contemplate\", produced by Syience, samples Rihanna's \"Question Existing\" and transforms it into a dark, brooding piece about the difficulties of love. That it arrives amidst Rihanna's troubling traumaaspromotional run is sad and fitting. Alas, there won't be much to gain from \"Chillin'\", the muchmaligned Lady Gaga collaboration and botched first single. This was the first step in Wale's multiple personality debacle and he seems to know as much nothing else on  Attention Deficit resembles the goofy sneakersshouting writing here. Ironically, it's the song that directly precedes \"Chillin'\" that feels most truthful. \"Shades\", featuring Chrisette Michele, is a resilient look at being a darkskinned AfricanAmerican (Wale is first generation NigerianAmerican). On the song he raps, \"They napped and slept on me/ Man, I hate black/ Skin tone, I wish I could take it back/ But rearrange my status, maybe if I was khaki/ Associating lightskinned with classy/ The minstrel show showed a me that was not me.\" Internal rhyme schemes, halting phrasing, thoughtful selfexploration; this is Wale at his best. Not as a preening star filling in the gaps for a kingmaking debut. A regular person, with doubts and sadness, joy and confidence. There's just not enough of it on Attention Deficit. "}