{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14730/homepage_large.f4c7fce0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Vitalic","title":"Flashmob","text":" Few 21stcentury house/techno tracks have proven as oddly influential as Vitalic's 2001 \"La Rock\" and \"Poney Part 1\". Released when microhouse's delicate soundsculpting was being touted as dance music's future, and strangely first claimed by electroclash fans during that trend's brief and ignoble peak, Vitalic offered speakerfrying synthriffs (or sometimes just synthsqueals) to scare off wannabe aesthetes and IDM refugees, reaffirming the productive struggle in postacid dance between funk and floorclearing noise. But as \"Poney Part 1\" and \"La Rock\" reared their ugly heads again and again, showing up on one compilation after another during the next three years with little new Vitalic material in sight, fans who valued humor and nuance as much as focused brutality may have wondered if producer Pascal Arbez had exhausted his one distortiondrenched trick.So it probably helped Vitalic's longterm career prospects that his 2005 debut album, OK Cowboy, included enough oddities (like \"Wooo\", with John Carpenter subbing for the oompah band at a local polka night) and slow jams (like \"The Past\", a rare nonunctuous trawl through 1980s synthpop romanticism) to keep John and Jane Doe from tuning out after the 10th consecutive helping of fuckyou. Which is not to say Monsieur Arbez wussed out in the name of crossing over. The fearsome \"Poney\"alikes far outweighed the goofball interludes, and if he'd released his second LP 12 months later, his rep as middlebrow dance music's premier scourge would have been secured. Instead, another three years passed between OKC and Flashmob, a period during which a horde of noisy, uncouth producers (many of them fellow Frenchmen in the Ed Banger orbit) popped up, turning overblown feedback and digital grime into exhausting shtick in record time. With the landscape glutted with punkdance nobodies, Vitalic's mission to create deranged, overthetop dance music that nonetheless honors disco's bodymoving tradition became that much harder.If he succeeds, and Flashmob proves that he does, it's because Vitalic's best productions have a nearpsychedelic sweep, a sensuous appreciation for the way he can overlap often grating textures until they become both beguiling and disorienting, while so many of his contemporaries are happy to strangle the details right out of their tracks with volume. Even if he's unerringly loud, his weakness for buzzsaw midrange obliterating the dubinfluenced sense of space you hear in the best minimal and deep house, Vitalic offers sublime, spacedout moments as crucial punctuation in even his least compromising tracks. Opener \"See the Sea (Red)\" is undeniably dominated by the fat, fuzzedout riff that takes the place of a traditional bassline, but Arbez knows said riff will flatten listeners all the harder when it rears back up after a twinkly, almost Kompaktian breakdown. Justice, by contrast, would just let the riff build and build until you're begging for relief that never comes. Arbez obviously appreciates this nomercy approach, but realizes that what's effective on a lone 12\" gets wearying when repeated a dozen times in an hour.This contrast between short moments of catchyourbreath beauty and the violence of riffs on the edge of pure noise has proven to be Vitalic's greatest weapon. Perhaps that's why Flashmob's slower, more evenkeeled tracks feel like filler. Necessary filler, but nonetheless. \"Poison Lips\" is fine as postItalo/hiNRG pastiche goes, but it's too streamlined, too emotionally flat to feel like anything other than an interlude that got out of hand. Ditto \"Allan Dellon\" and its slowmotion electrohouse, where Vitalic proves he can do straightup, classically synthdriven beauty well enough, while lacking the melodrama of Flashmob's obvious highs.But you also sense that Arbez knows these tracks are glorified breathers, and has sequenced the album very carefully. For instance, following the relatively lowkey and carefully sculpted vocoders of \"See the Sea (Blue)\" with \"Chicken Lady\", Flashmob's most unrepentantly thuggish moment three minutes of Arbez dragging his knuckles around his studio as his melodyspurning machines groan and growl. Taken individually, neither is a jawdropper, but in tandem they mimic the onetwo punch of his best work. Little of Flashmob could be described as \"tender,\" or even traditionally catchy, but Arbez has enough of a pop instinct to know that drama results only from careful pacing. He also knows that when you're making big, potentially dumb, and definitely unruly dance music, a sense of humor and a lack of pretension is crucial. It's hard not to laugh when a robot tells you, \"This is your disco song, made for you, for those rain days, to chase the shadows away,\" over a backdrop of mockmenacing seesawing synthgrind.That's why the best track here is \"Terminateur Benelux\"; it squeezes everything Vitalic does well into four minutes, a summary of Flashmob's wellcrafted, winking brutalism and my pick for a singleserving download for the curious. It's hilarious and a little terrifying all at once, an unhinged homage to early90s hardcore rave, with a clattering quasibreakbeat that sounds like it's agitated itself into a fit, sampled \"woo!\"s and \"ahha!\"s straight off a 2 Bad Mice single, and the kind of freaky Belgian techno droneriff that's probably ground zero for Vitalic's sonic signature. Listening, you don't know whether to giggle, run for cover, or start breakdancing. Like those firstwave rave producers, Arbez wants to have it all: to make listeners smile, shake their shit, and still walk away a little shaken by the music's intensity. Flashmob pulls off this nearimpossible combo with more skill than even Vitalic's fans may have expected. "}