{"label":" Film Guerrero","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14740/homepage_large.7299be4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Lackthereof","title":"A Retrospective 1998-2008 or I Was a Christian Emo Twentysomething","text":" Danny Seim is best known for playing drums and singing in Menomena, but he's had a sort of parallel career as Lackthereof, putting out nine albums and two EPs since 1998. After selfreleasing most of them in limited runs, he made the jump to Barsuk in 2008 with Your Anchor, his best Lackthereof album yet. That makes now an opportune time for him to look back on his longrunning project and give people who haven't followed it (i.e., almost everyone) a chance to sample the best moments. It wisely doesn't draw at all from Your Anchor, focusing on material from the lesserheard records. Seim has doodled illustrations and scribbled out complete lyrics for every track, and he's given it a title that reflects the central inner conflict of his life during the time he made most of this music.Seim plays and sings everything on all these records, and while you'd expect him to be a good drummer, he's good at writing bass and guitar parts that suit his talents, and his vocals, while mildly raspy, suit the songs. He's willing to push himself, too: His wordless selfharmony on 2003's \"Safely in Jail\" sounds good over popping programmed drums. It's stylistically similar to solo Thom Yorke, and when he brings the live drums and a small army of electronic noises in, it brings the song vividly to life. The conflict between Seim's religious upbringing and his own worldview is the subject of a few songs, but none highlight it more clearly than \"Abstinent Dry Sex\", which rides a fantastic bassline to the lines, \"You're bulimic/ I'm in love with porn/ I'd rather love you/ But that would be wrong.\"The compilation is sequenced out of chronological order, but a quick check through the booklet makes it clear how much Seim's craft has developed over the years. The best of the four instrumentals is the most recent, 2008's \"Both of Us\", which is beautifully contemplative and essentially free of gimmicks in the production. The best track on the whole compilation, the closing \"The Columbia\", also dates from last year and benefits from being streamlined and spooky. Most Lackthereof albums before Your Anchor were uneven, so it's nice to have the bulk of the strongest tracks all in one place, though the occasional indulgence does slip through. \"Pimping Is Never An Easy Task!\" from 2002 is built up with shuddering percussion to the point of being cluttered, while the Wendy Carlos synthesizer solo that opens \"Half Off Drugz\" is amusing once.Other places where Seim appears to be entertaining himself work better the fuzzedout Zeppelin crunch of \"Let U Down as Good as I Did\" or the odd beatboxing on \"Miko\", for instance. Lackthereof is an interesting and prolific project, and this compilation should make it easier to approach for people working their way back toward it from Menomena. Seim's well of inspiration runs deep, and people who've enjoyed his more highprofile work would be well served to check out the project that got him started. "}