{"label":" Waxing Deep","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14735/homepage_large.7a5e03e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Si, Para Usted: The Funky Beats of Revolutionary Cuba, Vol. 2","text":" One of my fantasies is to be able to wander through the complete archives of the world's great record labels, neatly ordered and annotated. The history of recorded sound only stretches back to 1878 (1857 if you count the phonautograph), but in that time, output has been prodigious, on the order of millions of recordings, many of which are lost. How cool would it be to walk into an Indiana Joneslike warehouse with the entire unabridged catalog of Columbia Records, a company that's made recordings since 1888? Of course, no such place exists the many large companies that made records worldwide through the middle of the 20th century had no central warehouses where everything was gathered, and the smaller labels often suffered from lack of organization and resources. If your offices burned in a war, well, that was it for your archives.Cuba's EGREM (Empresa de Grabaciones y Ediciones Musicales literally \"Music Recording and Publishing Company\") is one of the many labels whose history I'd love to tour. It is the product of revolution, founded in 1964 after Castro and his government had consolidated their power, and it's been the sole entity responsible for documenting Cuban sounds on record ever since. While the generic name reflects the ideology of its communist overlords, the label has played host to a mindboggling array of soulful, vital, innovative, and inventive music. On the first Si, Para Usted volume, Waxing Deep exposed a clutch of funky, sometimes psychedelic recordings from the 1970s and 80s that showed that the changes that swept through the world's pop music in the decade previous didn't leave Cuba behind in spite of the suffocating political environment. Here, they've gone even deeper, jettisoning many of the known names of the first volume in favor of mostly unfamiliar artists.Some of these artists recorded only one or two songs, owing mostly to the arbitrary nature and complete lack of business sense that characterized the Cuban music business. Los Barba, for example, was one of the most popular bands in the country but never made an album. Which is a shame, because \"Al Sonar La Hora\" suggests they were exceedingly capable, with swelling horn accents, slashing psychedelic guitar, tweaked organ solos, and deadon harmony vocals that come out of nowhere for the chorus. Most recordings made in Cuba were by acts on the government payroll, but there are a few LPs of amateur bands floating around. These featured nonprofessional (as in, not employed by the government) groups who performed well in national arts and culture festivals, and the examples included here are inspired. Combo Los Caribe's \"Andalucía\" has elements of surf, exotica, and 60s nowsound records layered onto its Cuban rhythms, while on \"Safari Salvaje\", Los Rápidos open with a wild AfroCuban barrage of drums and incantation, only to blindside you with a crackling drum fill and an onslaught of chicken scratch guitar.As much as they tried, Cuba's censors couldn't beat back the tide of American music. The island is close enough to Miami to hear its radio stations, which is probably how Orquesta Cubana de Música Moderna managed a version of Ides of March's 1970 horn rock hit \"Vehicle\". Theirs is a crazy, funky instrumental that ends with a garage rock organ quotation of Bach's \"Toccata and Fugue in D Minor\". Cuban musicians may have operated with a great many more constraints than their counterparts up north, but their exploratory spirit and artistic invention was no less vibrant, and it's great that we're finally getting to hear some of this music, presented with a great deal of background information. I'm certainly hoping for a Volume 3. "}