{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14750/homepage_large.6ea9f289.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"The Happy Hollows","title":"Spells","text":" L.A. power trio the Happy Hollows trade in an amalgam of grimy, affectless postpunk and crunchy 90s alt rock; Elastica would be a better reference point were the Hollows less informed by the unhurried California cool of their homebase. Flecks of heavy stoner fuzz and wafts of breezy modern rock blow in and out of Spells, but at its core, it's a ripper. Most of the credit goes to Sarah Negahdari; she's a powerful but economical guitarist, jutting in and out of the tracks like a jagged saw. And her voice, while thin at times, commands attention on both the stompers and the serenades; she's equally adept at twisting around the pile of power chords that is \"Silver\" as the unsettling buzz and hum of \"Turtle and Hare\". With all the right angles and sharp left turns underpinning Negahdari's acrobatic vocals, Spells can feel downright Deerhoofy at times, and while Spells goes glam and grunge where Deerhoof would opt for space and skronk, there's a feeling that this music could literally go anywhere and that Negahdari could figure out something to sing over it no matter where it might roam.This isn't to say Negahdari's bandmates, drummer Chris Hernandez and bassist and occasional vocalist Charlie Mahoney aren't worthwhile; with somebody like this in the lead role, though, they were bound to pale in comparison. Mahoney's time behind the mic is would've been best left on the cutting room floor; his two tunes, \"DeLorean\" and \"A Man, A Plan, A Canal\" are bogged down by lyrics best described as dumbassed, and despite a tumescent chorus on \"DeLorean\" and a Pavlovian Les Savy Fav thing on \"A Man\", keeping Negahdari front and center seems in everyone's best interest.Great as Negahdari is in the moment, the Hollows songs can feel a bit piecemeal in their composition, and they don't have too many tunes memorable enough to stick with you all the way through its many twists and turns. The cracking WhipSmartindebted lead single \"Death to Vivek Kemp\" gets pretty close, but it's the lone  exception; it is the single, after all. At 50 minutes of occasional mania and infrequent tranquility, Spells can seem a little much  to take in straight through; it's eclecticism does occasionally feel jumpy, but the easiest fix would be to excise the numbers Mahoney sings and just let Negahdari hog the spotlight she so clearly deserves. As good an introduction to Negahdari's obvious and stillburgeoning talents as Spells is, it gives the impression her best is yet to come. "}