{"label":" Traffic Entertainment","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14746/homepage_large.7c7a76c9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Edan","title":"Echo Party","text":" For a dude who's been pegged as an oldschool throwback, Edan's had this odd habit of turning hiphop chronology into some kind of broken kaleidoscope. Just listen to the congealing synthesizers on \"'83 Wildin\" or the absinthe jazz piano of \"Ultra '88 (Tribute)\" from 2002's Primitive Plus and try to figure out just how they might've played in their realworld titular years not to mention 2005's Beauty and the Beat, which took its Bomb SquadinBeatleswigs premise to a bewildering, psychedelic extreme. The fact that Edan's only rarely managed to create anything as memorable since then indeed, much of anything at all has remained one of underground rap's more nagging absences. And his first major undertaking in four years turning out to be a 29minute mix might feel like more of a stopgap than the longanticipated followup that fans have almost given up waiting for.Except that Echo Party is, as stopgaps go, completely deranged. Traffic Entertainment Group got the idea to set a mostly idle Edan loose on their oldschool hiphop archives for the purposes of creating a mix, and some two years' worth of mysterious alchemy later, the end result is, for good and bad, one of the weirder attempts to revamp the concept of an early80s hiphop tribute. It starts out conventionally enough a recognizable postdisco clapbreak with some familiar vintage rockin'itshockin'it lyricism, albeit sourced from a 12\" with more crackle than a burning sheet of bubble wrap. Then a creaky sounding piece of vintage electronics comes squeaking in like some kind of robotic slide whistle, the introductory break gets backspun into a sort of hissing slurpbeat, and things just go more haywire from there.Not to say that Echo Party isn't wellconstructed. The mix does a surprisingly good job of maintaining a tight, steady momentum for most of its length, and there's more than its fair share of percussive breakdowns sourced from hiphop, funk, disco, and gogo rhythms that prove Edan's ear is just as finely tuned to a great straightup beatdrop as it is to the psychotropic innerspace quirks that've been his calling card. And it's not purely obscurantist thanks to appearances by the fondly remembered Mr. Magic and SpyderD. But it does seem to draw from some of the odder corners of the epoch: \"Rapper's Delight\" basslines gone filthy, sessionband noodling, raps about ditching this doomed planet for a life in outer space. And there are almost no moments where an MC's line is left unmolested lines get flipped and reversed, chopped up into haywiresynapse stammers, and tossed down into dubbedout concrete bunkers so their voices can justify the mix's name.And the further Echo Party goes along, the deeper it descends into fullblown chaos, since Edan doesn't just stop at manipulating the sounds that already existed on the wax he had to work with. Aside from pulling a few odd tweaks with tape manipulation and reverb, Edan layers over his own instrumentation selfaware sloppy guitars, wobbly drum machines, banks of diseasedsounding synthesizers and pours it on to the point where most of the mix's last half diverts from the oldschool mix premise and turns into a disorienting, almost grotesque flareup of distorted fuzz and horror. And yet it still keeps that bboy pulse going steady somehow, against all laws of nature and physics, though you might have to strain to focus on it. You could put together some pretty fucking alarming uprock routines to this. (An aside: the melody to bboy national anthem \"Apache\" does appear but, along with a brief interpolation of the Rolling Stones' \"Miss You\" it comes via kazoo.)Twentynine minutes does feel a bit short for a fulllengthpriced CD and ferchrissakes, get the CD, because the liner booklet that comes with it is a ridiculously elaborate typewritten transcript of every single thing that happens in the mix and it looks like some kind of rogue producer's shackconcocted manifesto. And this still isn't quite the official third fulllength that people have been waiting for; Edan doesn't actually pick up the mic to rap on this thing (though he robotulates his voice near the end to thank you for listening). But if you've ever wanted to hear classic cuts from the dawn of hip hop turned into hallucinogenic setpieces that knock and clang like glitchedup King Tubby, Echo Party should justify whatever the hell it is Edan's been doing with his time over the past four years. "}