{"label":" SMC","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14766/homepage_large.b781618e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Rakim","title":"The Seventh Seal","text":" A new Rakim album should be a big deal or at least a bigger deal than this. Talking about the man's career, it's hard not to lapse into hyperbole, to talk like he invented rap, because in some ways he kind of did. The things that make rap what it is in 2009 existed in various forms back in 1986, when Rakim's career launched, but Rakim isolated, elevated, streamlined, and developed them. The seenitall thousandyard stare, the twisty internal rhyme schemes, the innate sense of the meter of speech and its possibilities, the mystic codes that intrigued just as they alienated, the emphasis on sheer weight of presence these are all Rakim's legacies, and without them, rap would look very, very different.Rappers and oldhead fans talk about Rakim the way they talk about retired legends; but Rakim's out there, hungry, ready to work, making occasional guest appearances. He hasn't recorded an album in 10 years, but he's only one year older than JayZ or Diddy. For a while, he was signed to Dr. Dre's Aftermath imprint, at work on a record that seemed so titanic (arguably the greatest rapper ever united with arguably the greatest rap producer) that it almost had to disappoint. But that didn't happen, and here he is, on an album full of budget beats and nobody guest singers, radiating rinkydink halfhearted comeback attempt. He deserves much, much better.On \"Won't Be Long\", Rakim states his current aim: \"Complete my legacy/ Without compromising my artistic integrity.\" In interviews, he's implied that he and Dre parted ways because Dre wanted him to record the sort of accessible gangsta music that's always been Dre's stockintrade, something Rakim wasn't interested in doing. And lyrically at least, The Seventh Seal sounds very much like the album Rakim wanted to make. There are a lot of love songs on the album, a lot of educatingtheyouth songs, a lot of Obama namechecks. There's one song about God, another about the redemptive power of music. I'm pretty sure he doesn't curse once on the whole LP, and there's not a single crass commercial cashgrab here.That's great, admirable even, but you also hear what Rakim's missing without a Drelevel executive producer on board. The beats are generally flat, lifeless thumpers from unknown producers. And even the few decent beats from decent producers like Jake One or Nottz have to contend with the guest singers, who show up over and over and who feel like total deadweight voids. No rapper would be able to maintain a consistent level of force or intensity in settings like these. Understandably, Rakim sounds exhausted more often than not, his laconic basso growl never quite as effortless as it once was. A Dretype figure could also tell Rakim that it might not be such a good idea to rhyme \"euthanasia\" with \"youth in Asia\" or to point out that \"love backwards is evil,\" simply because it's nearimpossible to make moves like these without coming off corny.But this is still a Rakim album, and that goes a long way. Some of the man's greatest strengths, like his technical rigor and fluidity, are the sorts of things that naturally wear away with age. But others principally the rush that comes just from hearing the unrushed weight in his voice have stuck around. Some of the songs here also make great use of the boundless goodwill that Rakim's built up over the years. Rakim's always taken his love songs seriously, committing to them as intensely as he does to his droppingknowledge tracks; 1990's \"Mahogany\" is my favorite example. He pulls that off a few times here, talking about everyday struggles between couples without sounding like he's pandering or doing token fortheladies songs. And on \"Dedicated\", he brings enormous pathos to a song about his recently dead mother, making even the terribleidea No Doubt sample on the chorus sound acceptable.But this album still falls way short of what it could be, and I have to wonder how this even happened. Rappers should be lining up to work with this guy, but the only guest rapper on the whole album is perennial Clister Maino. A secondgeneration Rakim disciple like Cormega can score DJ Premier and Large Professor beats for his new album, but Rakim himself gets stuck with pale imitations of those guys' best work. I can't say enough bad things about these hook singers. It's not a new thing for rap veterans to make limp, uninspired new albums that only barely hint at past glories. But it is a new thing for this rap veteran. "}