{"label":" BlakRoc","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14776/homepage_large.7e9dafbe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"BlakRoc","title":"BlakRoc","text":" You might think the remarkably similar and undeniably terrible Black Lips/GZA collaborations from earlier this year would have made everyone involved in the BlakRoc project Black Keys plus hiphop artists, to be reductive rethink their decision. But by being so blatant about what it did wrong combining notoriously sloppy and notoriously methodical artists the Lips and GZA may have actually have provided an unintentional boost.No such problem exists in BlakRoc the Black Keys recently toedipped into hiphop by having Danger Mouse produce their last LP and their reverent, valuesbased approach to the blues nicely dovetails with the ethos of the MCs involved mostly guys who came up in NYC during the late and mid1990s. And while this simpatico relationship ensures that BlakRoc allays all fears of being about as good as any previous raprock fulllengths, for better or worse, it ultimately serves as both the floor and the ceiling. If you're okay with \"solid\" being the main descriptor for a project boasting such wellknown talent, BlakRoc won't be a disappointment.In the track review for \"Stay Off the Fuckin' Flowers\", Tom Breihan described it as resembling Edan's \"Beauty and the Beat, but with good rapping,\" which is pretty deadon in two aspects. Raekwon is still in Gemstarsharp Iron Chef mode here, in a performance worthy of comparison to deeper cuts from Cuban Linx... Pt. 2. Granted, it widely deviates from the typical subject matter on BlakRoc I suppose it's a testament to the respect given the Black Keys that most raps here work within the standard bluesrock tropes of hard times (most notably, \"Hard Times\") and nogood women (\"Hope You're Happy\", \"Tellin' Me Things\").More importantly, in spite of the presence of tireless selfpromoters like Damon Dash, Jim Jones, and RZA, they never go overboard and play up the masturbatory \"look at us, we made a rap record with psychedelic rock guitars\" angle like Edan and his ilk did, although the acknowledgment of the guys behind the boards make for the most awkward lyric on the whole thing \"fuck the white ones, the Black Keys got so much soul.\"But the Keys and Mos Def make the most of the stoned salutation \"On the Vista\", the sort of singrapping about the kind of \"total control\" one only feels in a hallucinatory state it wouldn't feel out of place on The Ecstatic, and most importantly, it could close the door on Mos relying on Fishbone as being some sort of apotheosis of rock music. Meanwhile, shortlived Dipset hook lady Nicole Wray (the one who made 1998's awesome \"Make It Hot\" as just plain Nicole) simmers admirably on the streetlamplit noir&B of \"Why Can't I Forget Him\".And yet for all the brownacid reverb, BlackRoc often comes off as a resolutely sober affair mutual respect leads to no on stepping on each other's toes or letting loose. I suppose the RZA's having fun, even if it rarely feels like anyone else is in on it he's strictly in quasierudite Bobby Digital mode here, where you actually prefer his nonsensical wordplay to moments when he's actually intelligible. Even if it never really syncs up, the attempt to match Zepdrum reverb to doubletime Dirty South flows on \"Coochie\" which isn't available on digital versions of the record turns out to be the record's riskiest sonic experiment, but even that seems too restrained. Yes, a song called \"Coochie\" with Ol' Dirty Bastard and Ludacris is too restrained: Think about that for a second.But even if the lame parts of BlakRoc are more noticeable than the enjoyable, what really sticks out is how easy this all feels not once does anything feel like awkward ambassadorship. For a project that spawned an accompanying trickedout Camaro, it's a pleasantly modest album. And really, it's cool that a somewhat nonobvious choice like the Black Keys get to be involved with something like this. So, fine if BlakRoc's impact isn't always musical: At the very least, its optimistic approach feels pretty exciting when too many hiphop fans are more willing to peel off selfsatisfied jeremiads about the genre's demise. "}