{"label":" Minty Fresh / Little Sister","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14775/homepage_large.1175db51.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Charlotte Hatherley","title":"New Worlds","text":" At this point in her career, Charlotte Hatherley is still best known for playing in other people's bands. She was a guitarist in Ash from her late teens through her midtwenties, toured as a bassist for Client, and spent half of 2009 traveling the world as a member of Bat for Lashes. For fans of her first two solo albums, the fact that she is not known for her own material is rather vexing, as there is nothing minor about it. Hatherley is a confident vocalist and a deceptively clever guitarist, and if she ever experienced growing pains as a songwriter, she certainly got it all out of her system before penning her debut record, Grey Will Fade. Though her songs synthesize familiar elements of British artpop and 1990s altrock, her style is distinct and refreshingly out of step with most of her contemporaries. This is not a woman who ought to be a footnote.Hatherley's third album, New Worlds, is her first to be formally released and promoted in the United States, and it is her most selfassured record to date. It's also the most lyrically focused, with nearly every track describing experiences and emotions in terms of color metaphors. Rather than attempt to evoke a state of synesthesia in the listener, Hatherley articulates a synesthetic point of view in her lyrics. The telldon'tshow approach is typically a misstep, but it makes perfect sense here, as the album's most thrilling bits come when she's excitedly explaining sensations and epiphanies that don't fully translate outside the boundaries of her imaginative mind. The point is not to totally grasp her crackpot colorcoded cosmology, but instead to relate to the feeling of rediscovering the world and opening up to new possibilities. This is where she's all showdon'ttell: Even if her lyrics only scratch the surface of bold notions and personal revelations, the music nails the combination of urgency, fascination, and wonderment that often accompanies moments of profound inspiration. \"Full Circle\", \"Little Sahara\", and the title track are particularly effervescent and practically overflow with manic energy despite Hatherley's tight compositions and controlled performances. Gentler songs like \"Alexander\" and \"Cinnabar\" forsake gleeful intensity in favor of a pensive majesty that captures a similar sort of magic.Hatherley is a meticulous artist, and her songs are carefully constructed things designed for a powerful dynamic impact without sacrificing elegance and grace. She's the best sort of craftdriven writer, consistently avoiding ostentatious displays of technical ingenuity while subtly exerting her skill in ways that call attention to, rather than distract from, her melodies. Hatherley's focused approach to writing carries over to her lyrical themes. \"Full Circle\", the album's hyperactive centerpiece, is all about getting oneself to reject passivity and embrace creative action, and sounds something like a response to Marnie Stern's selfdirected pep talks from This Is It and I Am It and You Are It and So Is That and He Is It and She Is It and It Is It and That Is That. Other songs, such as the lead single, \"White\", are more concerned with attaining a focused awareness of the self within a physical environment, and acknowledging how color, texture, and other physical stimuli shape our emotional responses. In either case, Hatherley is concerned with honing perceptions and getting the most of out of life by keeping her mind clear and alert.The primary tension, both musically and lyrically, on New Worlds is between disciplined focus and wild hair intuition. It's not a binary opposition, though, but instead a cycle that enables an artist to effectively communicate their ideas. Though Hatherley foregrounds the creative process in her lyrics at some points, she's never selfconscious or overly meta in addressing her process or her muse. The astonishing thing about the album is just how relaxed it all feels despite its mannered construction. The music never sounds improvised, but when the songs pop, the sensation is raw and immediate. Hatherley is not reinventing herself, much less rock music, but with New Worlds, she has refined her aesthetic and the result is an album that can draw comparisons to XTC, the Breeders, Wire, the Pretenders, and other topshelf rock bands, but ultimately sounds like nothing else but the work of its creator. If there was ever a time for Charlotte Hatherley to finally enter the spotlight, this is it. "}