{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14770/homepage_large.607d8aaf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan ","artist":"Laarks","title":"An Exaltation of Laarks","text":" Laarks' Brian Moen wails on a drumkit that's more than 70 years old. That's amazing. At the time his instrument was crafted, our country hadn't yet experienced Pearl Harbor. As grim retrospectives are still stacking up, it's still weird to look back on the 2000s as a time defined in any way by Kid A or Is This It as much as towers falling or bubbles bursting most of the time it felt as if our popular culture was detached and separate from the actual realities of our times. Laarks, a foursome from Northern Wisconsin, seem to have sifted through the past 10 years of sound, homing in specifically on 00s indie rock moments that somehow feel increasingly distant. Perhaps even more than 1990s indie touchstones do at the moment.An Exaltation of Laarks, the band's debut LP, neither pushes any envelopes nor changes any games. It is, however, a wellcrafted document of a time period we're still in the process of digesting. As opener \"What God Hath Wrought\" kicks things off over some synth and sleigh bells, everything feels both deliciously familiar and weirdly dated. Frontman/keyboardist/head songwriter Ian Jacoby's papery yelp is a near dead ringer for that of the Promise Ring's Davey van Bohlen (also a fellow a Wisconsinite) just as Kyle Flater's lead guitar hook is yanked straight out of a Killers single. Though the synthetic/organic bent is a little overdone at times, the gap traversed between those two reference points is comforting in a geeky, sincere kind of way. There's a lot of fun to be had in picking out Laarks' influences track by track, layer to layer. The first few seconds of \"The S Stood For Science\" maintain a whir and thrum that's pure Broken Social Scene. Couldn't be anyone else. Minutes later it charges into a stomachchurning coda with shades of Death Cab for Cutie at their most taut. Interpol? Yeah, they're in there, too.Let's face it: None of this would require repeated listens were the melodies nonexistent or the execution flat. But these songs have great energy. Though Laarks have reassembled \"indie\" parts and atmospherics moms can now recognize, they've done it all with a fizz and punch that's clearly their own. Moen (formerly of Eau Claire heroes Amateur Love and DeYarmond Edison) is an absolute mammoth with drumsticks in his hands and gives every number real verve, no matter the volume, vibe, or tempo. \"Where Do You Wanna Live?\" in particular showcases a fantastic stretch in which he swaps out a drum machine for his own rolls without so much as a seam. And although Jacoby tends to pickle some areas of the record with hiccuped synths (\"You Know They Do\") and Win Butlerlike vocal ticks better off avoided (\"Telephone\"), he lends that same song a real sense of place, politely repeating, \"Tell me where you wanna live? Milwaukee or Eau Claire? Tell me where do you wanna live, when you grow up?\" It's a moment of searching, of looking afield. Into the future. "}