{"label":" ABKCO","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14788/homepage_large.c3c1c316.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Fantastic Mr. Fox OST","text":" Characters in Wes Anderson movies tend to interact with and choose their own music. Max Fischer, attempting to seduce his teacher by faking a bike crash, pops a cassette of French love songs into the bedside table tape deck while her back is turned. Margot and Richie Tenenbaum, fighting incestuous desires in a child's tent, listen to two tracks off a (missequenced) LP of the Rolling Stones' Between the Buttons. Steve Zissou keeps around a crew member whose sole duty seems to be perpetually covering David Bowie songs.And since it's not a stretch to assume Anderson sinks a lot of himself into his films the titular Fantastic Mr. Fox wears a mustardcolored corduroy suit I'm sure I've seen the director himself sport the intense need for music control may be the most autobiographical detail of all. For like his contemporaries Quentin Tarantino and Paul Thomas Anderson, Wes Anderson occasionally seems as obsessed with perfecting the film soundtrack as he is with the film itself. You just know Anderson has the music for his parties scripted down to the very minute: 11:43 \"Days\" by the Kinks.But where QT and PTA, both eager scholars of film history, have habits of recycling music previously used for cinematic purposes, Anderson's musical vocabulary is more alchemical, an often brilliant combination of dustygroove British Invasion and Mark Mothersbaugh's whimsical scores. Like most great tricks, it rapidly soured to a cliché, making Anderson's multiple slowmotion, Kinkssoundtracked scenes in The Darjeeling Limited risk lapsing into selfparody.Thankfully then, the soundtrack for Fantastic Mr. Fox is a different animal altogether, slightly more (groaaan) sly, even if it's still detailobsessed it's on ABKCO Records, for cuss' sake. It's the first original score for a Wes Anderson flick not composed by Mothersbaugh (Darjeeling Limited also lacked the Devo vet, but featured music cobbled from Bollywood films); instead, the more traditional French composer Alexandre Desplat swings the baton. And other than the Rolling Stones' \"Street Fighting Man\" and several Beach Boys songs, Anderson's selections mostly veer a generation earlier than his usual picks to vocal groups, jazz, and, well, a whole lot of Burl Ives.At first glance, Anderson seemingly commits a Tarantino crime by drawing upon songs already bearing the imprint of other TV shows and movies, but there's a twist when they arise in the film, it's as the characters' own song choice. Because what else would funny animated animals listen to but the music of other funny animated animal entertainment? Ives was a fixture in the Rankin/Bass stopmotion holiday specials \"Rudolph the RedNosed Reindeer\" and the like. Also featured on the record is the love song from Disney's Robin Hood and \"The Ballad of Davy Crockett\" (not an animal, but wore one on his head) each poured hissily out of onscreen radios in the film. The film's humans, meanwhile, sit around a campfire and listen to a puppet version of Jarvis Cocker (in a star cameo as Petey) making up a banjo song. It's cute, and as the movie nicely proves, cute ain't such a bad thing.Blending well with the quaint folk of Ives and Cocker is Desplat's score, which has all the colorful fancy you'd expect for an Anderson film meant ostensibly for children really existentially aware children. At first, banjoandstrings chambermusic tracks like \"Mr. Fox in the Fields\" and \"Jimmy Squirrel and Co.\" make one headscratch over why Mothersbaugh someone with pretty good animation experience already wasn't tapped again. But as the film starts genrehopping merrily through heist flicks, Spaghetti westerns, and war movies, Desplat's wider range helps the soundtrack keep up with the goofy march of \"WhackBat Majorette\" or the Morricone goof of \"Just Another Dead Rat in a Garbage Pail\".Ironically, the only part of Mr. Fox's music that feels off in the context of the film are the most Andersonish 60sobsessed moves. Both the Beach Boys' \"Heroes and Villains\" and \"Street Fighting Man\" are jarring anachronisms even in a movie where oldtimey badgers use cell phones, and stick out sorely on the record as well. Only the Bobby Fuller Four's \"Let Her Dance\" works in both media hopefully Anderson has learned by now that every movie he ever makes should end with all the main characters dancing to a 60s rock tune, as his best two now have. In the other one, Max Fischer, ever the obsessive director, picks \"Ooh La La\" for his last dance with Ms. Cross. With Fantastic Mr. Fox, Wes Anderson, ever the obsessive soundtracker, creates another valueadded souvenir in the spirit of a literally wonderful film. "}