{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14779/homepage_large.bed521a0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Orme","artist":"OOIOO","title":"Armonico Hewa","text":" Japanese allfemale group and Boredoms offshoot OOIOO's fifth album, 2006's Taiga, holds a more than respectable score of 78 on Metacritic, but it split Pitchfork listeners. The percussion heavy, often amelodic beast came off as needlessly difficult and even lazy to some staffers, yet Dominique Leone claimed it to be, in so many words, the easiest entry point in the OOIOO catalogue. I don't begrudge either extreme viewpoint: OOIOO's output is divisive for the simple reason that the band has a unique capacity to both wow and disappoint. To call the new Armonico Hewa one of the band's best mostly acknowledges the group has refined its curatorial voice.While not overtly acknowledging Boredoms comparisons, the group (founded by original Bore Yoshimi PWe in the mid 1990s) teases expectant Boredomcrazed trainspotters by sonically orbiting the mothership but never quite giving in to the whitehot bombast of its predecessor. At the same time, the group frustratingly \"rewards\" the careerist patience of its growing fanbase by fiddling with band dynamics with every release. You really never know what you're going to get, but it usually ranges between a take on Slitsesque postpunk to the incomprehensible stutterstart No Wave splendor pioneered by the antecedent Boredoms catalogue, all meaning abstracted out into pseudolingual screech. The first track on Taiga, for example, is a mess of jungle drums falling over one another, Yoshimi belting out like a megalomaniac cheerleader and announcing the abrupt (if brief) renunciation of the group's melodic sensibilities. What results is often ballyhooed, sometimes brilliant, but it almost always leaves sonic travelers all packed up for one of the group's poptinged psychedelic sojourns out in the cold.Armonico morphs between musical touchstones but engages the listener much more directly. \"O O I A H\" updates spacy funk with guitars in full facemelt mode and supporting members belting out a falsetto chant, but \"Ulda\" proffers a wonky, new age keyboard chord preset before morphing into a more familiar guitardriven drone. Spaceage rock guitar riffs remain a prominent signpost, but up against the monolithic axe slabs rub such dated synthesizer lines lifted from progressive electronic pioneers. Manic drumming abounds, metronomic but paradoxically indebted to the languid beatkeeping of centuries of world cultures. A notable referent is not only the rhythms of Africa, but those as transposed by progressives sharing an equatorial gaze such as Brufordera King Crimson. OOIOO's drummer, Ai, came on board for 2006's Taiga, a record which arguably let its new percussive weapon direct the group's usually holistic jams. The group's previous record, Kila Kila Kila, suffered a similar problem in aimless, almost tuneless guitar riffage. Thing is, OOIOO operate best as a democratic entity, forming compositions out of the blind ambiguity of improvisation and the relative economy of instrumental balance. On Armonico Hewa, for the first time in years, the balance struck by the group's best work is approximated while largely preserving the same display of technical chops on their last two records.The group is also best served by developing the possibilities of their constituents' voices as instruments. Highlights like \"Be Sure to Loop\" from Feather Float and the incomparable, uneven singsong chorus of Gold and Green's \"Mountain Book\" elevate the female voice, sometimes to endless heights and sometimes to fall off false plateaus. Armonico casts the molten steel of meaningless syllables into machinegun bursts, sonar echoes, radioactive dirges, and girlgroup coos of the group's best work. It's a monument to the endless possibilities afforded by an improvisational spirit, but more importantly it highlights Yoshimi and her band's tireless and everevolving voice. "}