{"label":" Rune Grammofon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14786/homepage_large.41efc819.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Supersilent","title":"9","text":" Of all the questions that Supersilent beg with their new release, the one that I'd love to get an answer to is: Are these guys actually any good on the Hammond Organ? Here are the other questions: What led drummer Jarle Vespestad to leave the band? Okay, well, that's a gossipy question his personal and professional reasons are his own. But does Supersilent want us to know he left the band? The liner notes, as always, refuse to list the personnel, and they do not mention that the quartet has become a trio. You might've noticed that the drums are missing, except that the remaining players have completely changed their instruments: For the session that produced this record, all three members played nothing but Hammond Organ. And that's not mentioned in the liner notes either.But I go back to their proficiency on the instrument, because it's key to what makes this so special if not successful. While regular keyboardist Ståle Storløkken probably knows his way around the Hammond, I can't tell whether Arve Henriksen is as comfortable on the organ as he is on trumpet. Producer and electronic noisemaker Helge Sten is probably responsible for the album's extreme dynamic range, which is half the show: What they play is far less engrossing than how they amplify it, sometimes excruciatingly, with the rotation of the Leslie speakers raised to a gale force bellow. You're pulled so close to the guts of the organ that by the end you'll think you could build one yourself.The first half of \"9.2\" simulates how it must sound to be eaten alive at least until the second half, when one player starts a loose vamp and the other two improvise against it. But in the back half of the album, the storm ends and the players switch to a hush. \"9.3\" is ambient and gentle, almost absentmindedly turning upbeat at the end, and \"9.4\" grows so static that it's not even a dirge: It's lovely to listen to but bereft of tension.Which is why I'm so curious about whether they're \"good\" on the Hammond. On past dates I took it for granted that each member of the band was an excellent musician, and yet musicianship is rarely what draws the ear to their music. Like early Pink Floyd, they engaged in an exploration that was unrehearsed and maybe even naïve. The band tried to sound like something other than the sum of its parts and by emerging from free and unrehearsed improvisation, the music resisted containers. By the time Supersilent recorded 8, the members were inextricable from one another, the wails and ballads emerged organically, and their apparent goal of creating spontaneous, nonidiomatic, and exhilarating music was reached again and again.But this time, it sounds like they're winging it in front of us thrilling themselves with new discoveries one minute, and the next, batting around ideas that go nowhere. Is the organ lineup here to stay? (Probably not: Storløkken has said they'll be back to their usual instruments when they tour next year.) Is the pervasive melancholy a stylistic choice, a side effect of working without percussion, or an emotional reaction to losing onefourth of their musical organism? Will Supersilent survive, evolve, or die? Whatever the future holds, this is some of the riskiest improv the band has ever recorded: In every moment of the album, you can hear all three guys trying to figure out where to go next. "}