{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14783/homepage_large.64255554.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Score! 20 Years of Merge Records: The Remixes","text":" In one of the introductory essays to The Merge Records Companion, label cofounder and Superchunk bassist Laura Ballance trumpets the book as a \"representation of the essential relationship between 'product' and purchaser, or in this case, Music and Music Lover.\" The same could be said for the other Score! releases the two publicly available compilations (The Covers, released in April, and the newly released The Remixes), as well as the 14 subscriptiononly compilations curated by a seemingly disparate group of folks that includes \"The Office\"'s Mindy Kaling, novelist Jonathan Lethem, and bon vivant David Byrne. All these objects are examples of the implicit trust (or, if you prefer a more blunt phrasing, brand loyalty) that, to some extent, exists in the indie music world between the consumer and the purveyor. At the very least, it most definitely existed back when Merge Records engaged in the timehonored indie label tradition of glueandpaste recordsleeve parties.Now, in an environment where labels are almost secondary channels through which fans can acquire their favorite tunes, the power of a label's brand is diminishing in conjunction with its profit margin. According to Merge's other cofounder/Superchunk member, Mac McCaughan, this waning of influence comes at a time when the importance of such branding is perhaps at an all time high. He recently mentioned in an indielabel roundtable organized by NPR contributor and former SleaterKinney member Carrie Brownstein: \"The Internet allows you access to all the music you could want, and that's the problem if you don't know what you are looking for, it's like trying to find a good record in a thrift shop. So the label is... a filter, or at least a starting point for fans.\"In that rather stark light, the Score! releases can be viewed as a sort of prospectus for listeners, showing potential customers both the breadth and depth of their catalog, and their standing and influence within this musical community a label doesn't get to put out a charity remix compilation featuring farflung folks like Barbara Morgenstern, Four Tet, and Jason Forrest without earning the respect of its peers. Thankfully, The Remixes is more than just a display of the power of the Merge Records Rolodex. Like any compilation, it's got its share of lackluster moments, but most of the material here presents both the remixer and the remixed in a flattering light.Of course, cherrypicking highpoints from this release would be the best way to tackle it, but listeners who opt to go from start to finish can take solace knowing that the album is bookended by two of the compilation's high points. To open things, Caribou takes a twominute track (\"Kalgon\") from Polvo's first fulllength (CorCrane Secret) and expands it into an eightminute epic, transforming the group's fractured brand of postrock into something more sedate and spacious. At the other end of the record, there's the Junior Boys' take of Lambchop's \"Nashville Parent\", which reduces the source material to its haunting choral melody, and makes an alluring and lengthy JBesque track from that one little snippet. In addition to offering of the album's remix highlights, Caribou manages also to be the beneficiary of a favorable treatment, courtesy of Lambchop compatriots Hands Off Cuba they add a persuasive syncopated backbeat to the diffused atmospheric musings of Andorra's \"Irene\".Remixers like Barbara Morgenstern (working with Pram's \"Mother of Pearl\") and John McEntire of Tortoise (on Spoon's \"The Ghost of You Lingers\"), opt for a deceptively fussy approach that works hard at staying true to the song at hand. Jason Forrest (AKA DJ Donna Summer), on the other hand, doesn't do much to the Arcade Fire's \"No Cars Go\" except add some ominous synth flatulence that turns an already anthemic song into something even more grandiose (for better or worse). Along similar likeorlump lines are the Blow's take on Portastatic's \"Drill Me\" essentially a Blow song, but written over the bassline of the Portastatic tune and +/'s take on the Rosebuds' \"Bow to the Middle\", which gives the duo the Postal Service treatment. Maybe Xiu Xiu's 52cardpickup approach to the 6ths' \"Volcana!\" qualifies as well, though its chaotic fragmented approach might put off even the most patient listeners. The only truly regrettable remixes on this collection are Four Tet's rote rejiggering of Guv'ner's \"Baby's Way Cruel\" (which takes the source tune's chorus, and loops/ AutoTunes it ad nauseum over some pro forma dance beatz) and a notsofresh and ultraflutey rendering of the Magnetic Fields' \"Washington, DC\" by Mark Robinson.Even if his remix leaves something to be desired, Robinson's presence on this compilation could be seen as totemic, if not simply a tribute his TeenBeat label, one of indie rock's most respected and individualistic bastions, and no doubt an influence during Merge's salad days, will be celebrating its 25th anniversary next year. While TeenBeat's certainly not working the same fields as its younger pupil, both labels exemplify the passeddown handson DIY aesthetic that's fueled the Amerindie underground for decades. Fittingly, The Merge Records Companion displays the art of the label in a similar handson fashion instead of just offering pages of record and CD sleeves, this handsome little book gives the browser pictures of hands holding these record and CD sleeves. The hands belong to all members of Team Merge the label heads, the PR folks, various other employees, folks in the bands, and family and friends (including Pitchfork contributor Grayson Currin).Even as the label's profile continues to grow and expand, and the music released by their bands finds its way into bigbudget movies and primetime television shows, Ballance and McCaughan don't want to forget how they got to where they are today, and who's helped them along the way. Cynical folks might view such a gesture simply as smart business, perpetuating a timeless image that appeals to a core demographic while not alienating anyone that's unswayed by such gestures. Those with more than red and black ink on their mind, however, can see such an act for what it most likely is a heartfelt show of thanks from a bunch of unabashed music lovers to a bunch of unabashed music lovers. "}