{"label":" Renaissance","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14791/homepage_large.97eab00e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"M.A.N.D.Y.","title":"Renaissance: The Mix Collection","text":" This 2xCD mix set by M.A.N.D.Y. is bursting with the kind of lowkey minimal/deep house goodness that obsessives probably snagged on vinyl (or at least a high bitrate mp3 rip) the week they were released. But it's M.A.N.D.Y.'s continual crossfader curveballs the gleeful ease with which the German duo blends in tasty bits from across rave history that will make older listeners take a second listen to what appears on first glance to be yet another tasteful compilation of recent DJ fodder. Renaissance: The Mix Session is that rare uptodate dance document with room for beatsandbass legends like Dynamix II and electronicindie hybrids like Junior Boys and Schneider TM.M.A.N.D.Y. have used the platform provided by UK superclub imprint Renaissance which once meant you'd ascended to the ranks of dance music's moneymaking populist frontline to put together a historylessoncumslowburn showcase, rather than a cutesy game of connectthedots between Old Tune X and New Tune Y. The oldest selection is the Black Dog's \"Virtual\", first released in 1989, which blends so perfectly with DJ Koze's 2009 \"Mrs. Bojangels\" that protoIDM and 21stcentury freakhouse are revealed as kissing cousins. At 40plus tracks, there's enough newish music from all the usual Euro suspects to keep fans of spacey and streamlined lateaughts dance music happy well into 2010. But it's the outré and halfforgotten stuff, the odd little hooks and nostalgiatriggering throwbacks, strewn among the austere beeps and pulses, that will keep you coming back. Like the quasinoise/rock weirdness from Gang Gang Dance; Sebastien Tellier's laidback flutes and strings, the kind of superpungent Francophile kitsch that will leave you shaking your head with bemused laughter; and Gui Boratto's remix of Bomb the Bass, which features the best (and moodiest) riff of the set, the kind New Order should still be cranking out.The Mix Session is hardly the minimasterpiece that was M.A.N.D.Y.'s 2005 Body Language, which was similarly broadminded while sticking to mostly thencurrent material. Instead of going eradefining, M.A.N.D.Y's eschewed a seamless runthrough of 2009's greatest hits in order to craft that ererare dance music object: the idiosyncratic commercial mix CD that's both \"deep\" and popfriendly. It takes guts to include a killer record like, say, Felix Da Housecat's \"Silver Screen (Shower Scene)\" that's old but not quite yet \"classic.\" You risk being greeted with groans from the innovationfixated cranks that comprise a large chunk of your audience. Maybe you think it's troubling that M.A.N.D.Y. have managed to stand out from the identikit minimal/deep pack simply by tossing in some moldy oldiesbutgoodies, but I find their crossgenre/decade fearlessness refreshing. If nothing else we can all agree that it's surely the only mix we'll ever see to feature both Robag Wruhme and Mark Lanegan, Dominik Eulberg and P. Diddy. "}