{"label":" Palm","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14794/homepage_large.8d2441eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Baaba Maal","title":"Television","text":" For years, wellintentioned labels and publicists pushed Africa as some single monolithic entity rather than a collection of diverse countries, each with its own diverse musical scene. These days, of course, things are slightly different. Music from Africa is getting collected, compiled, and reintroduced on a regular countrybycountry or scenebyscene basis. Rock fans are increasingly well versed in the likes of soukos, juju, or mbalax, or the art of the kora and mbira. Heck, the late Fela Kuti, something of a cult act in the States, is currently the subject of a successful Broadway musical.Still, marketing African acts to the West remains something of an uphill slog, and that goes for established artists as well as new ones. In the past couple of years alone, I've seen both Mali's breakout Amadou & Mariam play to huge festival crowds (encouraging) but also Senegalese legend Youssou N'Dour play a less than capacity club (disheartening). Is it any wonder, then, that acts from throughout African so often seek Western assistance to help break through longentrenched barriers? Amadou & Mariam, for example, worked with both globalpop keystone Manu Chao and Damon Albarn. Algeria's Rachid Taha regularly works with Steve Hillage. Ali Farka Toure teamed with Ry Cooder. Youssou N'Dour broke through in part thanks to his association with Peter Gabriel. And fellow Senegalese star Baaba Maal has worked with everyone from Brian Eno to reggae legend Ernest Ranglin.Admittedly, Baaba Maal has embraced most fervently his role as a panglobal fusionist, and his latest, Television, his first studio album since 2001's Missing You (Mi Yeewnii), is no exception. But while the disc was produced with Barry Reynolds (best known for his work with Grace Jones) and features musical contributions from members of the Brazilian Girls, it's a surprisingly mellow affair, generally tasteful in its eccentricities and outreach to a broader audience.On the latter front, tracks such as \"Cantaloupe\" and \"International\" come close to kitsch, the first with its cloyingly whistled melodies, the second with its awkward literalmindedness. \"Dakar Moon\", with its flamenco guitar and English lyrics, too, comes close to crossing over into illconceived milquetoast territory. Other songs, however, such as the title track, \"Tindo\", and the atmospheric \"A Song for Women\", smartly and subtly find ways to bridge traditional music with contemporary technology; the song \"Television\", in fact, even concerns the effect of television's arrival in Africa.But Television is a markedly minor affair, especially once you factor in the long gap between it and its predecessor. Yes, Baaba Maal is in good voice throughout, but that voice all too often blends into the background like just another instrument, its dominance mixed down like he's almost a guest on his own disc, ceding the focus to the quiet interplay of real and programmed percussion, guitars, and synths, and particularly polyglot Brazilian Girl Sabina Sciubba. The results are perfectly pleasant but rarely inspiring, hardly sterile but at the same time too smooth. For a selfprofessed musical ambassador, the usually magnetic Maal simply seems too restrained, too eager to meet new listeners halfway rather than give them a compelling reason to come to him. "}