{"label":" Rodriguez López","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14790/homepage_large.ec2a92cf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Omar Rodriguez-López","title":"Xenophanes","text":" I am probably the only Pitchfork staffer who unabashedly loves the Mars Volta in all their dumbassed grandiosity and shameless sprawl. I will suffer through their most meandering fusionpastiche jams if it means reaching one of their WagnerbywayofDark Magus climaxes. But even I have to admit there are times where I wish Cedric BixlerZavala and Omar RodriguezLópez still had a couple of meatandpotatoes punktypes around to act as foils. Not to equate the dudes from Sparta with Teo Macero, but at least in the At the DriveIn days you never worried you were footing the bill for someone's wahwah pedal obsession.If you're already suspicious of the MV's concept album corpulence, then the idea of a solo project from one of the band's principals, freed from even the loosest commercial restraints, might seem like a definite nogo. And guitarist Omar RodriguezLópez's glut of onemanband releases this decade this is his fifth solo album released in 2009 alone have indeed tended toward the sort of freeform/cutup/noiseforthesakeofit \"experiments\" that even Voltalovers might listen to onceandonlyonce out of fannish respect. Which is why it's a bit of a surprise that Xenophanes may be the tightest Voltarelated product since DeLoused in the Comatorium, back when the tunes were still more riff than solo.And clearing away the showoff instrumental density it's admittedly hard to make claims for the Volta's sense of nuance when 900 people are wailing away in semiunison, a racket that's often easy to mistake for a Latintinged prog band covering The Omen soundtrack reveals a delicacy to Omar's music that may surprise. Throw a slomo disco beat under the quiet storm of atmospherics in \"Ojo al Cristo de Plata\", and it could be one of those softprog/neoBalearic dance tunes currently so beloved by young house aesthetes. And \"Sangrando Detras de los Ojos\" is actually damned beautiful a gentle and eventempoed instrumental, without an attentionstraining timechange in earshot akin to ATDI's always stirring breakdowns, the very necessary breathers between the band's attempts to knock the sense out of you.Of course, with typical Voltaish perversity, \"Sangrando\" is also the shortest track here. The rest is pretty much what you'd expect: \"funkrock\" influenced by the guitar FX dogpile of \"Wars of Armageddon\" rather than the streamlined party music of \"Flash Light\" (\"Mundo de Ciegos\"); portentous melodrama in search of a stadium full of RPG aficionados (\"Oremos\"); and plinkyplonky electronic miniatures more AMusik than posthardcore (\"Azoemia\"). As always, RodriguezLópez could benefit from an outside editor, since his internal editor seems to have been given his pink slip when ATDI broke up. (There's a sixth solo album arriving before the end of the calendar year.) And only staunch Volta cultists would claim every minute of Xenophanes is worth your precious leisure time. But damn if the best bits don't make an excellent incar soundtrack for pretending you're on your way to something more dramatic than your day job. "}