{"label":" Harmonia Mundi","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14808/homepage_large.a4bd7a77.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"David Lang","title":"The Little Match Girl Passion","text":" Composer David Lang, one of the founders of the artmusic collective Bang on a Can, made his name in the late 1980s and 90s penning spiky blasts of music that dared you to hang on for the ride. Early works like \"Cheating, Lying, Stealing\" were statements of intent the bristling sort that artistically inflamed young men are prone to making and they encapsulated much of downtown New York's hardy oppositional spirit. Twentysome years later, they are foundational texts for an entire new generation of gleeful polyglots who can't wait to mix their avantpunk, artrock, electronic, and whateverelse records in with their childhood classical training.In 2008, this lifelong iconoclast won the Pulitzer Prize for Music for The Little Match Girl Passion. The 35minute oratorio brought mainstream institutional acceptance to a career defined, at least in part, by its absence, and Lang seemed equally grateful and nonplussed by the honor. The Little Match Girl Passion is a breathtakingly spare and icily gorgeous adaptation of the Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale of the same name, and on the surface it couldn't be further from the punky provocations of Lang's youth. It is scored for only four voices soprano, alto, tenor, and bass, with the occasional addition of hand bells and percussion and the resulting sound world has more in common with Renaissance sacred music or English madrigals than the hip postminimalism Lang is known for.To some of his acolytes, this sort of thing might look suspiciously like softening with old age. But Lang hasn't softened so much as deepened. Over the last 10 years, he's been increasingly pairing his brasher works with hesitant, quietly spiritual pieces that open up onto more expansive internal vistas, and his Passion is the culmination of this tendency. The Hans Christian Andersen fable is fantastically dark, one of those children's stories that still startles in its brutality. The titular little girl is sent out by her abusive father on New Year's Eve to sell matches, but finds herself ignored by passersby. Unable to return home without money, she tries to warm and distract herself by lighting matches, which summon comforting memories of her grandmother's house on Christmas morning. As she slowly freezes to death, the memories and visions become more vivid until they envelop her. She is found dead in the morning, clutching a handful of burntout matches but wearing a beatific smile.Lang has taken this story, with its impossibletomiss religious overtones, and cast it as a Passion play. The piece is specifically modeled on Bach's St. Matthew Passion, which interrupts the story of Jesus' death with other texts that reflect and comment on the action. This treatment might sound ripe for egregious emotional manipulation, but Lang has nothing of the sort in mind; his gaze is cleareyed and subdued. In interviews about the work, Lang has alluded to watching the Zapruder film and being struck by how its slowmotion graininess and silence amplifies the tragedy of the Kennedy assassination by placing it behind glass. It doesn't matter which frame of that fated motorcade you see; they are all equally devastating. By breaking up the timeline of the little match girl's suffering with choral lamentations, he has accomplished something similar. From Passion's opening moments a slowly accumulating round of voices chanting rhythmic variations on the words \"come\" and \"daughter\" the tragedy of the story's end is already present.The work is relentlessly minimal, though it feels too unstuck in time to be pegged as \"minimalism.\" With an almost ascetic discipline, Lang builds the piece out of tiny melodic cells four or fivenote fragments that he wraps around each other again and again, until they produce a haunting and evocative hall of echoes. The heartstopping \"Have Mercy My God\", for instance, is composed of just two minor chords, broken into five pitches each, which reiterate endlessly and tangle slowly at the edges. Most sections make use of a similar number of notes, the ones that you can find on the piano under one hand without stretching. This humble insistence on economy reinforces the work's theme; Lang seems to be determinedly chiseling away at his music, tuning out outside clamor to hone in on a more elusive inner transmission. In its own quizzical, probing way, The Little Match Girl Passion is as much a devotional piece as the Bach Passion it is modeled on, and with it, Lang has produced the most profound and emotionally resonant work of his career. "}