{"label":" Daptone","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14813/homepage_large.2a579dbe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Daptone Gold","text":" One defining and instructive story often told about Daptone Records, the retrosoul label based in Bushwick, concerns a cover of Janet Jackson's \"What Have You Done for Me Lately\", which appeared on the 2002 debut by Sharon Jones and the DapKings. So convincingly did the band and the singer transform the song and reset it in a soulhistorical context that apparently many listeners, as yet unfamiliar with the band or with Daptone's mission, assumed that this was the original, exhumed after so many decades of obscurity, and that Jackson's was actually the cover. Daptone, however, is not a reissue label. It releases primarily new recordings often featuring old singers, studiously recreating the sounds of 1960s and 70s soul, as if to unhinge that style from history and prove it timeless, sceneless. The label has been praised for the precision of its revivalism as well as the strength of its roster, which includes Sharon Jones, Lee Fields, and the Budos Band, among others. There's a fine line, however, between revivalism and slavish mimicry, and the concern for historical fidelity that has garnered praise for Daptone acts has caused other contemporary bands to be routinely dismissed for sounding too much like 70s Laurel Canyon folkrock or 80s Mancunian postpunk. So why shouldn't the same critical standard apply to Daptone?Daptone Gold, which is either a very savvy label sampler or a very generous greatest hits, goes a long way toward answering that question. The nearly two dozen songs gathered here some new and familiar, others previously unreleased cover a lot of territory, from the urbanized (i.e., preGuiliani New York) afrofunk sounds of Antibalas to the souljazz struts of the Budos Band to the sanctified, secularized gospel of Naomi Shelton to the oldsoul wallop of figureheads Sharon Jones and Lee Fields. Daptone's reach is both deep and wide, looking not to specific scenes or personalities from soul history, but to a generalized conception of the past as fertile territory for musical exploration. In other words, Daptone Gold (which features liner notes by Pitchfork contributor Douglas Wolk) benefits not so much from its associations with Stax or Motown or Philly or Hi or any other prestigious label, but from the excitement and directness of the music itself.The players not only know their history, but they have the chops to translate that knowledge into music that only rarely sounds academic. The Budos Band apparently live in the pocket: On their three songs on Daptone Gold, the horns, percussion, and rhythm guitar immediately click into place and never let up. Especially on \"Budos Rising\", the horns soar precipitously over the prickly guitar licks and rumbling bongo funk, creating a tense callandresponse with the organ. Similarly, the groove on Antibalas' makossastyle cover of Hector Lavoe's \"Che Che Cole\" seems propelled by gravity itself, clicking in sweetly with Mayra Vega's spry vocals. And the DapKings, which are more or less the Daptone house band even though they're most commonly identified with Sharon Jones, construct dense grooves that allow space for scribbles of saxophone and organ. On the instrumental \"Nervous Like Me\", the reeds completely lose their shit while the guitar keeps everything together with a fournote theme. It's chaos roughdrafted into something barely orderly.As with the label, Daptone Gold lives and dies on personality. Binky Griptite's intro promising \"four solid sides of soul\" almost sinks the revivalism into kitsch, although his guitar playing on the Bside \"The Stroll Part 2\", recorded with the Mellomatics, proves he's a more inventive guitarist than singer. He shows a limited vocal and emotional range on \"A Lover Like Me\", but that may have less to do with his innate talents than with the company he keeps. Lee Fields shreds his vocal chords on the soul excoriation \"Could Have Been\", constantly threatening to go too far over the top but always pulling back at just the right moment. It's a measured, heartrending performance that transcends retro assumptions, a telling counterpoint to the gimmicky skit he performs on \"Stranded in Your Love\", a duet with Sharon Jones.Exuding unbridled sass and boundless energy whether on stage or in the studio, Jones is arguably Daptone's biggest act, and she gets seven tracks on Gold. \"I'm Not Gonna Cry\" and \"How Long Do I Have to Wait?\" are stalwart soul songs of remarkable emotional complexity, and \"Got a Thing on My Mind\", from her 2002 debut, is a tonguetwisting take on social ills a protest party song. And even if her cover of Gladys Knight & the Pips' \"Giving Up\" sounds a bit clunky, especially compared to superlative covers of Janet Jackson, Woody Guthrie, and Prince, Jones nevertheless makes you believe she and Daptone are the real thing. "}