{"label":" Jive","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14823/homepage_large.e5e5182e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"R. Kelly","title":"Untitled","text":" Of all the things that could undermine and perhaps torpedo R. Kelly's career, laziness has rarely been considered. What a decade it's been for Kelly he's thrived in a curious way, morphing from true blue 1990s R&B icon into an increasingly strange and beguiling pop culture oddball. He is known by more people now than ever, though not always for the best reasons. He released bold albums (Chocolate Factory), brave albums (Happy People/U Saved Me), and bad albums (TP.3 Reloaded). He has been the maximalist to end all, creating and eventually overindulging his \"Trapped in the Closet\" video novella series. He collaborated on two disappointing albums with JayZ. He contributed two of his steeliest songs ever, both ballads, to Whitney Houston's comeback album, I Look to You, this year. He had sex in the kitchen, sex in the jungle, sex with your girlfriend. And on June 13, 2008, Kelly battled and beat child pornography charges. Which, to many, is all that matters now.But Untitled isn't sunk by the vestiges of scandal this just isn't Kelly at his best. He has survived for so many years in a ravenously young genre R&B pop by innovating. But too often here he trips over trends on \"Crazy Night\" he abuses AutoTune, on \"Text Me\" he overthinks modern communication, and on \"Superman High\" he mistakes OJ Da Juiceman for a suitable foil. These are the blunders made by an aging man working hard to stay relevant, expending energy on ephemera. In 2008, Kelly planned to release 12 Play: 4th Quarter, a third sequel of sorts to his astonishing 1993 debut. But the album (no classic) leaked months in advance, and the project was junked and rerecorded. A handful of songs from 4th Quarter have survived and made it to Untitled; but hearing Kelly moan \"This is the 4th quarter!\" on \"Go Low\" is a bizarre remnant it disrupts any chance at continuity and is otherwise just confusing to anyone who hasn't followed the story. Scrapping the remaining songs, all unremarkable, would have gone a long way toward trimming what, at 62 minutes, is already a slog.As with nearly every R. Kelly album, sex is Untitled's raison d'être. But now it's more discomfiting. Not because his perspective or predilections have changed. They haven't. The man wants to have sex for long periods of time. With multiple partners. At all hours available. But the consequences of his commitment are devastating. Only when he's at his best is it easy to imagine some other R. Kelly, one unmarked by shame, singing with vigor about banging headboards.\"Echo\", a melodic marvel, is the best song Kelly has recorded in years, managing to make yodeling (yes) elemental, not a gimmick. It's graceful and gorgeous and about a sex session. \"Exit\", too, is fascinating reinvention Kelly singraps every bar, lifting his elastic, burnished voice up at nearly each word's end. To wit: \"Now I can't leave(!) this club(!!!) without(!!) you girl(!!!)/ Swear I (!!) want more(!!) you deserve an encore(!!!).\" This kind of phrasing just isn't normal, and only a person who has written hundreds of songs with samey lyrics is capable of altering delivery like this. Maybe it's a pittance in the grand scheme of his important career modern R&B is racked with artists like TheDream and Trey Songz who simply would not exist without him but these are the things to root for on R. Kelly albums. That there are so few makes this a minor work. "}