{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14830/homepage_large.359afaa0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"Bell Orchestre","title":"Who Designs Nature's How","text":" From an established indie band's point of view, the remix collection's promotional usevalue is undeniable. Tracks are cheap and easy to compile, and sometimes you end up with a really fabulous mix or two. But even the turkeys are guaranteed to make blog rounds on the synergistic strength of your and your celebrity remixers' names thus extending the limited buzzlife of original material. So does Who Designs Nature's How mean Bell Orchestre is a real band and not just an Arcade Fire side project? Hold the emails; it's a rhetorical question. Still, you have to wonder what Richard Reed Parry, Sarah Neufeld, and the parttiming Luyas intended with this perfectly pleasant but hardly revelatory remix EP of their 2009 avantorchpop album, As Seen Through Windows.Bell Orchestre enlisted a credible lineup of mostly established electronic artists and studio wizards, including Tim Hecker, Mad Professor, Kid Koala, and HôteldeVille's Rhett Brewer, to rework the analogrecorded (by Tortoise's John McEntire) source material. Not surprisingly, none of the remixers embarrass themselves. Kid Koala, for example, strips some of the richer string and woodwind arrangements from \"Icicles/Bicycles\" and foregrounds a single plucked string tone, to hypnotic effect. In the process, he makes a minor point: Bell Orchestre, who rarely fail to indulge their whims from lumbering horn passages to the forced whizzbang of group cheers might actually benefit from a little more focus. \"Water/Light/Shifts\" takes similar shape in Tim Hecker's hands. The original twinkles like twilightdrunk fireflies and damp fairy lights, which the remix distills into a thick spray of white noise. Both versions, however, offer the same soothing, mindclearing mood of a yoga routine topped by a cup of green tea.\"As Seen Through Windows\" is probably the only remix that bothers to shift any frames. Dub legend Mad Professor reverbwarps the album track's melancholy melody (intentionally or not, a doppelgänger for Julee Cruise's \"Mysteries of Love\"), layering it atop a hiccupping dubstep beat. What once implied a high school gym packed with band geeks who've locked their faculty advisor in the supply closet is now a 3 a.m. Special Kfuelled London nightclub hallucination. That Mad Professor's the rare guest who understands his remix assignment and stamps a legible signature on it is puzzling, but what's really weird is that Bell Orchestre's presumably content to release an EP of bland, faithful fare. I don't say this because they're experimentally inclined and genreuncommitted, either. When a band plots an album around a concept like As Seen Through Windows, they're clearly curious about the subjective nature of art and eager to peer through as many lenses as possible. "}