{"label":" Captured Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14834/homepage_large.0370fcdf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Mayfair Set","title":"Young One","text":" \"SWM seeks female companion. Likes: obscure mid80s British indie, home recording, BBC docudramas, cryptic album art. Dislikes: having picture taken, using birth name. Not opposed to LDRs.\" Mayfair Set principals Mike Sniper (aka Brooklyn bedroom rocker Blank Dogs) and Dee Dee (aka onewoman L.A. garage band the Dum Dum Girls) didn't come together through some makeoutclub.comstyle online hub for lonely, lofi enthusiasts, but given the limited information available about this secretive, camerashy outfit, it's as good an origin myth as any. Because the Mayfair Set's debut EP, Young One, feels very much like a relationship forged in separate bedrooms thousands of miles apart, with Sniper and Dee Dee's shared points of interest and strikingly similar M.O.s ultimately underscoring the distance both spatial and aesthetic between the two artists.  If the eight songs here weren't actually conceived via FedExed crosscountry cassette swaps, then great care has been taken to make it seem so; often Young One feels less like two people collaborating together in the same room than each taking turns dubbing their parts over one another's decaying demos, with faint traces of tapedover recordings bubbling up into the murky mix. If Blank Dogs' distortopop tends to soak Sniper's vocals in static, on \"Already Warm\" he's practically buried beneath the Earth's crust, adopting a deep, almost comical gothic warble that makes Dee Dee's corrosive coos shine like high beams on an 18wheeler. Extreme contrast proves to be Young One's defining quality, be it the beautyandthebeast dynamic between the two leads on the fuzzedout funk of \"Let It Melt\", or the way the chilly postpunk pulse of \"Desert Fun\" suddenly yields to a bright, beachbound chorus that sells you on the promise of \"fun, fun in the desert sun,\" as if having fun amid the opressive heat of a desert sun was a plausibility for these agoraphobes.  Sonically, the Mayfair Set hew much closer to the Blank Dogs' mechanized squall than the Dum Dum Girls' garage rock, but Sniper is under no illusion as to who's got the better set of pipes, maintaining a shadowy presence while Dee Dee takes control of the liquefied C86 pop of \"Junked!\" and the curious, girlgroupgonedub showcase \"Three for Me\". But it's on \"Dark House\" tellingly, the one track where Sniper's voice complements rather than competes with Dee Dee's that the Mayfair Set feels like something greater than just a casual, lofi lark between friends. Here they deliver a potent dose of dreampop melancholy that conjures the surrendertothesea imagery of the Cure's \"Just Like Heaven\", but grows more intense and despairing with each linebyline tradeoff. It's the moment where the Mayfair Set overcome the binary, backandforth quality of a longdistance relationship, and start to feel more like a natural, facetoface interaction. "}