{"label":" Siltbreeze","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14831/homepage_large.14abdbfc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"The Mantles","title":"The Mantles","text":" If it weren't for the fact that \"What We Do Matters\" is such a good song (hands down the best out of a considerable few here), the remainder of the Mantles' selftitled debut might have suffered greatly at that song's assertion that \"what we do matters/ If you don't think so, take a good look around.\" It's not overly declarative or pushy in fact, there's a feeling of uncertainty in its delivery that asks you to step back for a minute and give the statement a fair onceover. For a San Franciscan fourpiece that churns out the same kind of sharp, garageminded janglepop as a lot of their fellow Left Coasters, it's a perfectly reasonable defense mechanism. Of course this kind of stuff matters to people on some level, and if the Mantles are ultimately fishing for a compliment, I'll give them this: Most of The Mantles is much tighter and more athletic than stuff you'd traditionally find in this vein of late, with nearly every groovefurnished, guitarspiked rumbler feeling more taut and refined with each listen. A lot of the talk about this band contains references to the Chills or the Dream Syndicate, and while a cursory listen will be able to dig that stuff up pretty quickly, most of the Mantles' debut packs more of a punch, as the Radio Birdmanpropulsed \"What We Do Matters\" suggests. Pretty soon, the question has little to do with what matters they should've just had the balls to tell us that what they do is good.Most of these songs do hinge on some Paisley Underground staples, leaving Clist cuts like the wandering \"Burden\" to be forever condemned to burn in Brian Jonestown Massacre demo hell. But with most of the livelier material, it's pretty clear that the Mantles are a band with a real set of teeth. \"Yesterday's Gone\", a psychrevved splash of Motor City thrash, boorishly boosts the infamous riff from \"I Wanna Be Your Dog\" while still retaining the grit and reinforcing the groove. Shaggy opener \"Disappearing Act\" can't help but interject surf'sup guitar licks, and even on the midtempo \"Look Away\" nicely padded with organ hum and a little pissedoff soul balladeering the song grinds to a near halt so the band can twist it into a desperate floparound. It's these welcome spurts of primal boogie that afford some of the lighter fare an honest sense of drama.The more dangerous themes become more and more apparent at almost every turn, as the titular theme of the sockhoppy single \"Don't Lie\" feels less like a sadsack plea and more like some weirdly formidable domestic warning. But read too much into anything on The Mantles and you'll run the risk of missing much of the purely pleasurable moments that require little effort to realize. Even with forgettable material, like the tooaptly titled closer \"Thin Reminder\", it's hard not to just plain enjoy these breezekissed tunes. In that respect, it's pretty easy to understand why these small fish are asking for that tiny bit of reinforcement in their big pond: \"If you don't think so, take a good look around.\" It's only natural to feel a little boggeddown by your own niche constraints, but it really matters only if what you do works. Here, the Mantles have proved they have little to worry about. "}