{"label":" Lex","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14835/homepage_large.f4b3825d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"DOOM","title":"Gazzillion Ear EP","text":" After the better part of a year's worth of listening, it's not out of the question to call \"Gazzillion Ear\" the standout track from DOOM's Born Like This. At the very least, it's one of the album's most attentiongrabbing cuts. J Dilla's hauntological tour of the 2000s' second half manifested itself here as a fusedtogether unearthing of two of his archived beats: the organdriven psychsoul \"Dig It\" and the \"Return of the 'G'\"gonelofi Moroderisms of \"Phantom of the Synths\". DOOM united those two movements with a tour de force rendition of his characteristic hookless, freeassociative popculture clichédisemboweling that stands up to any of the top three verses on Madvillainy. And even through the rawness, he rode on that beat so securely that even without the Dilla shoutouts it'd be a fool's errand to separate his voice from it.Not that Thom Yorke or Dave Sitek or Jneiro Jarel are fools, of course it's just that they have their work cut out for them when it comes to remixing this song. The Gazzillion Ear EP includes the Yorke remix that accompanied the iTunes release of Born Like This, a collaboration between Sitek and Jarel, and another Jarel mix created under his \"Dr. Who Dat?\" guise. The EP also includes the original track, largely for completion's sake, and a brief, shrugworthy bonus beat entitled \"The.Green.Whore.Net\"; it's probably for the best that most people who already own Born Like This (by which I mean pretty much anyone who would already be interested in \"Gazzillion Ear\" in any context) can pick this one up piecemeal.While Yorke's remix doesn't supplant the original, it doesn't bother to try in fact, it doesn't even use the same vocal track. DOOM's flow on the Yorke remix is both fasterspitting and more intense, a reserved yet intimidating raspiness on some Clint Eastwood business. It's also split up, giving his lyrics some breathing room, but part of the appeal of \"Gazzillion Ear\" is that DOOM just goes nonstop, so hearing his voice drop out every so often to let Yorke's distantly twitching, wordlessmurmur ambience burble for a moment sabotages the momentum. And as much promise as that skittering, icy beat holds, it sounds way too ghostly and mournful to back up a verse featuring namedrops of \"The Gong Show\" and Ernest Goes to Camp.Jarel's two contributions make a lot more sense, since they capture the lyrics' menacing/absurd split personality in their own unique language. Given the advanced age of the Yorke remix, the Jarel/Sitek teamup is the blockbuster draw on this EP, and it doesn't disappoint. They pull a neat trick of turning Dilla's lifted keyboard melodies inside out and echoing it loosely with a burbling sound somewhere between highlife guitars and late60s analog electronics, throwing in some truncated blasts of halfwayAfrobeat brass that eventually spill out into an invigorating horn outro. But it's Jarel's other contribution that steals the show: the Dr. Who Dat? mix is boombap that breathes through deep, thrumming digital bass, riding on zoneout synths and hihats that melt and freeze into crystalline sonics. He's done something better than distracting listeners from how great the original version is he's provided a good reason to speculate what DOOM might sound like over more beats like this. "}