{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1369/homepage_large.732b23f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Isaiah Violante","artist":"Cephalic Carnage","title":"Anomalies","text":" Like most stoners, I woke up one day as a dirtpoor college student, chock full of grandiose ambitions, little motivation, and a whole semester's worth of film classes. See, the smart kids who liked pot but didn't have the balls to sell it had already spent so much time syncing The Wizard of Oz with Dark Side of the Moon, that answering the highcreativity/lowmath requisites of a film studies program was the next logical step. But like so many others, I found myself lulled into a coma by the French New Wave, indifferent to samurai films, and learning absolutely nothing about filmmaking. The one bit of quasiuseful information I retained, however, came from a class entitled something totally pompous like \"Debunking the American Comedy 19601990: From Droll to Dull\". After watching Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, our professor made the fairly obvious observation that the film is a brilliant satire because although the audience may be in hysterics, at no point do the characters ever laugh at themselves. In spite of the barrage of ludicrous imagery and verbiage used to satirize an impending nuclear holocaust, no one in the film seems to find anything funny. Crappy metal bands have thrived on this very same technique for more than two decades. For anyone who's familiar with grindcore, and in particular goregrind, the genres have blended technical wherewithal and tongueincheek sex, violence, and drugs seamlessly. One of the reasons songs about flatulence and midget porn can actually be enjoyable is because the musicians are almost always competent, and almost never take themselves too seriously. Then we have Cephalic Carnage, a Denverbased quintet who've made a pesky habit out of melding numerous styles of experimental music with death metal and grindcore. Though the band truly established itself as a key player in the burgeoning avantgarde metal community with its 2002 release Lucid Interval, Cephalic Carnage have spent the better part of 13 years smoking weed, touring extensively, and most importantly knocking metalheads like me on our asses. I loved every second of their previous LP, Lucid Interval. From the mock black metal to the hilarious mariachi track, it's a damnnear perfect blend of mindbending metal and deadpan comedy. And in the three years since its release, we've witnessed the band soar to the top of Relapse's impressive talent roster. But while CC have lost none of their mammoth bite and originative wiles, the unruly dose of irony on the overcooked Anomalies left me a bit overwhelmed, and more than a little disappointed. \"Scientific Remote Viewing\" is a perfect opener. Featuring vocals from Cattle Decapitation's Travis Ryan and lyrics that could be interpreted either as a conspiracy theorist's musings on MKULTRA or a DMT travelogue, the track is flawless. \"Wraith\" follows a similar mold of crunching grind. On it, drummer John Merryman lays down his best drumming to date: searing blast beats and jazzy syncopation, all executed with taste and precision. Guitarists Zac Joe and Steve Goldberg's blistering arpeggios shine on \"Counting the Days\", a song that resembles labelmates Pig Destroyer musically, but lyrically is a cloying thank you note to fans. And \"Kill for Weed\" is a great little grindcore stoner anthem. Its Golem vocals are a nice touch, but it works because it doesn't aspire to be anything more than a metal band expressing its lust for marijuana. Regrettably, there are few moments like that on Anomalies. More often than not, the band spends so much time amusing itself with creative technical masturbation that the audience is left wondering when to laugh. The first real misstep of the album is \"Piecemaker\", which starts with a fantastic Electric Wizard stoner riff and then turns into Suicidal Tendencies wankery. Although it's probably intended as homage to Terrorizer's grindmeetshardcore aggression, the track is a bunch of genre clichés run amok. \"Enviovore\" bears a striking resemblance to Cattle Decapitation's Humanure, revisiting all of 80s thrash's favorite themes: overpopulation, plague, genocide, and pollution. \"Dying Will Be the Death of Me\" is a hilarious of parody of metalcore mallrats like the Blood Brothers, featuring actualsung vocals, and represents the band's most radiofriendly offering to date. On \"Inside Is Out\", the band falls into the trap of passing off recycled Mr. Bungle noodling as experimentation, and here we encounter the major shortcoming of Anomalies: Instead of exploding the structure of a single genre and creating a unique sound, Cephalic Carnage knock the cobwebs off of a bunch of tired traditions (hardcore, fusion, doom) and do their best to incorporate as many of them as possible into 45 minutes. One of the most trying aspects of this disc is that it juxtaposes so many disparate styles and to CC's credit, that's no small feat and as a result it often feels more like a tribute record than 12 tracks of original material. "}