{"label":" ","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14848/homepage_large.74052189.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"G-Side","title":"Huntsville International","text":" GSide's Starshipz and Rockets LP was strong because of its rappers' humble honesty, but mostly due to the Block Beataz production crew, a team unafraid of reimagining trance music as a soundtrack for a lonely southern stoner rather than as club anthem fodder. Followup LP Huntsville International doesn't feel quite as risky, but in some ways it's much stronger; where the rapping on their former record occasionally felt overwhelmed by the beats' epic emotionalism, ST 2 Lettaz and Clova sound more confident, stretching out over an impressive breadth of tracks and incorporating increasingly notable guest stars like 6 Tre G and Yelawolf. The group has also managed to sidestep the trancerap tag that had become their signature, deftly avoiding gimmickry by maintaining a creative M.O.: keep things interesting.The record's most uncomfortable moments, in fact, pander to their niche; the kind of localfanbase details that have made regional rap so evocative because of its specificity feel strangely selfconscious when rappers are shouting out bloggers and the interludes are drops from Europeans. This postInternet internationalism feels like a hollow, awkward interaction for artists who otherwise seem so rooted in place. That said, even when they try some novel production tricks, like the spiraling EQ effects on \"What's It All About\", the first half of the record feels musically adrift. Aiming unsuccessfully for the grandiose on \"So Gone\", where the production can't quite match the rapping's allconquering spirit, doesn't really justify its dramatic pretense.It isn't until \"My Aura\" where the full breadth of the album's stylistic playfulness really takes off; the single dances with the classic Dungeon Family tension between irreverent enthusiasm and an unwillingness to be less than genuine. \"College Chicks\", similarly, is a southern rap club track in the vein of 2009 anthems like 6 Tre G and Boosie's \"Fresh\" or Young Problemz's \"Boi (I Got So Many)\", but with the kind of lighthearted goofiness that lets a rapper pull off AutoTune this many months after \"D.O.A.\" was D.O.A. Moments later, the group flips System's timeless R&B slow jam \"Don't Disturb This Groove\" into a sparkling mini masterpiece. None of these maneuvers are exactly unprecedented; part of what makes this work so well is the Block Beataz's dedication to details, the unwillingness to let a loop just be a loop. But more than that, it's the group's awshucks bravery, a willingness to subvert convention without making much of a big deal about it at all, that is so intriguing.The ability to take a fresh look at older approaches is most readily apparent on \"Who's Hood\". The Block Beataz take one of rap's most famous samples, originally flipped by one of the genre's most criticallybeloved producers, and let it exhale into backyard southern wistfulness. It's the kind of trick that gives the entire record an aura of modest awe. At this moment, GSide are a niche group, but more than ever this describes much of rap music. After so many years of billboard domination, hyperbole comes to rap fans easily after all, we're always arguing over who's the best but GSide are artists who thrive in a world of decentralized discourse, who don't transcend their audience but who can upend the expectations of even the most jaded rap heads, if they give them a chance. "}