{"label":" Team Love","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14865/homepage_large.9ec8dfde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Jason Boesel","title":"Hustler's Son","text":" If you happen to be in a cubicle while reading this, there's a good chance you've experienced the following. Look around you: These are people you've worked with 40 hours a week, for months, if not years. And yet you got to really know them better after a mere 40 minutes spent outside the office. It's interesting how this has applied to Rilo Kiley: since The Execution of All Things, they've been blatantly bearhugging the most outwardly tacky and glossy aspects of pop music (except the songs), but each of their solo endeavors could be taken as a show of oneupmanship in \"keepin' it real\". Guitarist Blake Sennett followed the lead of the Postal Service by forming the Elected, a Jimmy Tamborelloendorsed indiecountry act; Jenny Lewis' two solo albums boasted a rootsiness almost completely inverse to the arc of her main gig; while bassist Pierre de Reeder makes inwardlooking folkpop. And now, drummer Jason Boesel is letting his freakflag fly with... an album of what might have been known about 15 years ago as altcountry.Now, that's about as entrylevel as genres get for those looking to make their solo bow, but Boesel's C.V. checks out: after playing in the Elected, right around when Bright Eyes went fullbore (in both ways) troubadour, he joined its touring lineup, and would eventually contribute two songs to Conor Oberst's Mystic Valley Band album. Benmont Tench, Orenda Fink, and David Rawlings pay back favors by contributing to Hustler's Son, so you know it's going to sound tasteful. Boesel has a sturdy voice that sidles up nicely with the lower registers of the National's Mat Berninger and Okkervil River's Will Sheff, though he does lend himself to a bit of distracting hayseed diction. It's not quite as much of an issue on the opening \"Black Wave\", a countrynoir piece that finds him rambling through Tennessee on a horse with no name, setting a loping pace that extends throughout and belies the album's title. The lyrics rarely become pointed outside of an interesting turn of phrase (\"I thought I was a secret/ But I was too easy to keep\"), but the specter of death and personal heartache hover over Hustler's Son.Even if the formalism of his songwriting tends to ensure that they never go somewhere you don't expect, Boesel occasionally builds to some rousing choruses that shake off the generally languorous mood. The hook of murder ballad \"Hand of God\" reaches for the rafters despite the heavy weight of guilt on its narrator and the lumbering waltz of \"I Got the Reason #1\" picks through the best parts of Grant Lee Buffalo's Copperopolis, though the latter's momentum is squandered when Boesel's pen game goes all Juelz Santana by repeating the same word at the end of nearly every line (\"Was It, Man?\").But the obvious question becomes, \"Hey, I've never heard a second of Rilo Kiley in my life. What's this album going to do for me?\" Tough call: For Boesler, association does more to make Hustler's Son stand out than its preciously few musical curveballs. \"Getting Healthy (Good Luck)\" is the one track that nods towards Boesler's day job as stickman, but as a songwriter, he can't find his footing in the rhythm, and the title track, supposedly the first song he ever wrote, has an easygoing early Wilco vibe, but demands a vocal with more wear or grit in it. In its defense, Hustler's Son isn't spectacular, but it's an honest and modest document. Considering the path Rilo Kiley's music has taken in the past halfdecade, those qualities might be better off staying inhouse. "}