{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14860/homepage_large.e4746d22.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Underwater Peoples Winter Review","text":" Having personality and being personable are two very different things. For a small, nichecentric indie label like Underwater Peoples the D.C. collective responsible for nurturing some of the finest examples of 2009 lofi possessing both of these characteristics is paramount. Reach back to last June's Underwater Peoples Records Showcase (the first installment of what appears to be a kind of biannual mixtape giveaway), and you'll find a group of shaggy young artists huddled around a sound that would, in some circles, define a small chunk of last year. Take a minute to peruse the label's blog (or sometimes more helpfully, UP's sisterblog Chocolate Bobka) and you'll find a convivial comraderie amongst handlers, fans, and bands a genuine congregation of friends rotating inandout of a stable of mostly solid acts. In the case of this second spotlight LP, Underwater Peoples Winter Review, a handful of forwardthinking tunes helpfully draws the focus in over the cozy, closeknit sounds that anchor the label so well.Here, these freshly ordained acts prove Underwater Peoples is not just the house that Real Estate built: In most instances, each new Winter Review artist that didn't appear on Records Showcase outshines the returning familiar faces. That's not to say there aren't highlights from Underwater Peoples' first wave Real Estate, Julian Lynch, and Liam the Younger all contribute excellent tracks that reinforce their patented sounds without much fuss or reinvention. But it's the varied collection of burgeoning outfits like Appalachian gospel maidens Mountain Man, sharpfuzz shoegazers Big Troubles, and minimalist pop advocates Fluffy Lumbers that put up stuff so crisp and clever it almost devalues some of the samesounding material from the smaller roster vets. It makes for some expected unevenness, but more importantly provides proof that the folks at UP have great sets of ears.While Records Showcase worked best at \"establishing a seasonal mood\" (as Pitchfork's Joe Colly mentioned last summer), Winter Review hinges less on trying to approximate the chillier extremes that mark this season. However, the wintry exceptions are often standouts: Julian Lynch's opener \"Es's\" is a delicate, crystalline swirl of synthesized flute and keyboards; Fluffy Lumbers' (Frat Dad's Samuel Franklin) \"Adoration\" culls mystic boogie from some warm, fictional Fleetwood Mac Bside heard from two rooms over. And while there is an errant chill in Mountain Man's \"Dog Song\", a bewilderingly lovely number from the allfemale Vermont trio, its frightening foothillharmonies prove perennially awing.Still, what's more important here is that the compilation succeeds when at its most distinct and inventive; failures can largely be attributed to a sort of general homogenization of the label's stock and trade. It's not that the sameness isn't welcome when applied properly: Real Estate's \"Orchard\" is a pretty, countryfried jam; Pill Wonder's \"Restless\" boasts woozy string clips that melt into a pleasantly churchy midtempo waltz; Liam the Younger's terrific closer \"Please See\" transforms a shy acoustic plea into a bright, Arcade Firelike lifeaffirmer. But entries like Frat Dad's \"Totally Afraid\" (which sounds like a teenager's idea of an ironic Doors cover) or Real Estate bassist Alex Bleeker's \"These Days\" (the perfect soundtrack to watching your dad set up his brand new Margaritaville® blender) feel soggy up against more assured songwriting. Like, for instance, Air Waves' rolling strummer \"Sweetness\", a bright piece of folkpop that sounds practically hifi in relation to everything else. It's in these moments we can see the real value in branching out however hospitable and homey Underwater Peoples needs to be, it's personality that goes a long way. And Winter Review has characters to spare. "}