{"label":" Sterns Africa","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14852/homepage_large.b0a43127.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Franco & le Tout Puissant OK Jazz","title":"Francophonic Vol. 2: 1980-1989","text":" Franco spent the final decade of his career mostly in exile, overseeing his franchise. A national treasure in Zaire (he was to the former Belgian Congo roughly twice what Springsteen is to Jersey), he lived in Paris for a good deal of the 1980s, as he fell in and out of favor with Zaire's dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. His group Tout Puissant (\"The Almighty\") OK Jazz a dance band, not a jazz band had one cluster of members based in Brussels, another back home in Kinshasa. They marked their 25th anniversary with a series of four albums, and followed that up with a \"just like old times\" collaboration with their former singer Sam Mangwana, then a \"we're buddies despite our differences\" collaboration with Franco's longtime professional rival Tabu Ley Rochereau.That all sounds like a recipe for tepid cashins, right? But this 2xCD sequel to the first Sterns anthology of Franco's recordings (which covered 19531980) is thunderbolts and fireworks, start to finish. Maybe it's just canny song selection by compiler/annotator Ken Braun, who boiled down the dozens of albums Franco released in the 1980s to these 13 songs, but it sure sounds like the final quarter of TPOK's career was its best, which would make them close to unique in pop history.That may be because they operated on a different model from most bands. Franco was the guy who ran the show, and a superb musician (his chiming, flickering guitar parts defined soukous as much as Jimmy Nolen's defined funk), but he was only one of many guitarists in the group, one of many songwriters, and one of many singers (far from the smoothest). The band needed Franco they imploded after his 1989 death, at 51, of what nobody's quite willing to say for sure was AIDSrelated causes but they were a lot more than just sidemen. \"Tokomo Ba Camarade Pamba\", the glorious opener here, flutters along Francolessly for its first couple of minutes, stacking up interlocking guitar figures and sinuous vocal harmonies; then the boss's gruff voice lurches into the mix a second before the horns kick in and the whole thing achieves liftoff.The excellence of '80s TPOK Jazz also had a lot to do with the band's shift, a few years earlier, from 45s to LPs. Soukous songs are meant to stretch out: the sebene that was a feature of a lot of Franco's best numbers is less a jam or a raveup than a good bit that goes on for a while with limited variation. Of the 13 tracks on these two discs, only three are under 10 minutes long. \"Bina Na Ngai Na Respect\", written and sung by Ntesa Dalienst, is a brief, stately stroll followed by 15 minutes of sparkspitting dancefloor blowout. 1985's \"Mario\", arguably Franco's greatest hit, is an allsebene hipshaker on which he and Madilu Bialu sing in the character of a widow with a moocher for a boyfriend its functional Anglophone equivalents are probably UTFO's \"Roxanne, Roxanne\" (who might they be talking trash about?) and the Velvet Underground's \"What Goes On\" (just keep playing that riff forever, please).Mostly, though, the lateperiod work collected here is a joy because Franco was perpetually pushing his band toward the future, almost always with excellent results. (The embarrassingly dated synthdrums on \"Pesa Position Na Yo\" are a rare exception.) These songs are formally riskier than most musicians with a catalog as successful as his would ever dare, and there's a wonderfully mischievous streak to them. The prettiness of TPOK Jazz's records was often threaded with rage and indignation, and the last couple of songs here understandably address mortality faceon, but even in his darkest moments Franco treated moving the crowd as a sweet responsibility. "}