{"label":" Greensleeves","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14869/homepage_large.1a9e06ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Biggest Ragga Dancehall Anthems 2009","text":" The best thing about the yearly Biggest Ragga Dancehall Anthems compilations whose title provides you with all the backstory you need on this venerable series collecting 12 months of gems from Jamaica's premier pop genre is that they're consistent enough to act as comforting listening but restlessly inventive enough to surprise you each time out. The consistency runs deep, right down to the jaggedbutdancefriendly rhythmic structure of the music (for a genre as open to outside influence as any in the world, a dancehall tune is recognizable in seconds). It's there in everything from vocals that rub the nearparodically masculine against a sugary sweetness to themes that explore with the tension between the need to do bad and the urge to do right. But dancehall producers rarely develop the kind of setinstone sonic signature we come to expect from their U.S. peers, and if they do become known for a crucial riddim (think of Lenky becoming kingofthehandclaps in 2002 with \"Diwali\"), they shuck it just as quickly in order to keep the attention of dancehall's noveltyhungry audience.2009's installment feels both alloverthemap an hour of oddities, outcrasstheotherguy smashes, and the usual perverse hybrids of various global party sounds and oddly familiar. (That's partly because the divisions between Caribbean and North American pop are as porous as they've ever been.) Plenty of tunes here nearly blind you with the digital gleam of latedecade R&B Jamaicans have clearly been bingeing as hard on TPain as the rest of the planet, even if they apply his evil teachings with a modicum more taste than your average Yank and workmanlike synthsoul is the closest the compilation gets to any sort of sonic consistency. But and this is the sort of assessment that perhaps only someone following the genre daytoday might be able to make with any accuracy it also seems that dancehall has settled down somewhat in recent years. Put it another way: You're a lot more likely to hear a tune that sounds like 2004 in 2009 than you were likely to hear a tune that sounded like 1997 in 2002.Ragga Dancehall Anthems 2009 gets better as it gets stranger, more idiosyncratic. Not because \"stranger\" necessarily equals \"better,\" mind you, but because you don't feel quite so much like you're listening to drivetime U.S. urban radio with a diverting patina of Jamaican slang. And sometimes it's the \"pop\" stuff here that disorients the most, if only because Jamaica's definition of pop remains so openended as to frequently tip into the bizarre. \"Inna Life\" could easily be retitled \"Inna City\"; though the drums are pure dancehall, the synth and piano are straight off a late80s crossover house tune. Seriously: Add a canned breakbeat and it could be an early Seal single. But if Assassin's \"Pre Dis\" a tune whose atomized video game sound effects outpsychedelizes most of dubstep's nextbigthings without nearly making so big a deal out of it has any pophistorical reference points, I'd love to hear them.Now here's where I throw in the \"it's really good BUT\" caveat for all of those expecting a stateofdancehall summary as garnish with this product review. What The Biggest Ragga Dancehall Anthems 2009 lacks is the sense that a specific sound or riddim or vibe has the island in its grip, the kind of obsession that forces the genre into unexpected new places. (Technoinfluenced tunes in the early 00s, Far Eastern exoticism a few years later, fastpaced soca by middecade.) Alloverthemap it may be as a whole, but many tunes here induce a notalwayspleasant déjà vu. (The synthetic strings on Chase Cross' \"Better Days\" were ugly five years ago; now they're ugly and tired.) I'd be plenty happy if the 2010 installment was equally as entertaining. But I'd just a little happier if I felt like I had no idea what next year might bring.On the other hand, we all know what The Biggest Reggae OneDrop Anthems will sound like this time next year. The grownfolks cousin to the Ragga Dancehall series, OneDrop Anthems is consistent to a fault. OneDrop Anthems presents a world where it is perpetually 1974, and little has changed in Jamaican music except the technology employed to make it. The skanking rhythms of classic roots with the wellfamiliar galloping pianos, carnivalesque electric organs, and clipped guitar riffs are reaffirmed as a living art, made and enjoyed by old and young alike, rather than historical curios, something more akin to guys selling handburned CDR's of \"Tom Dooley\" covers out of a trunk at a folk festival. It's subdued and unabashedly reverential where Biggest Ragga Dancehall Anthems is clubfriendly and catholic.I've always been vaguely suspicious of the series for reasons that are only sort of defensible: Not to come off like a luddite, but if you A/B a lot of this stuff with classic roots, the synthetic backing tracks can sound gratingly ersatz, sometimes one step from the quickanddirty competency of a oneman session band employed by ad agencies for a little Caribbean color. On the 2009 edition, only the brooding bassline on Mr. Williamz's antitobacco tirade \"No Cigarette\" has the musical impact of anything on Biggest Ragga Dancehall Anthems. So thank goodness the singing remains lovely. Spiritually impassioned, too, even if I prefer the lover's rock moments to the righteously gritty or 21stcentury popfriendly ones. These happen to be the singers who most slavishly imitate (or pay homage) to the heroes of the predancehall era, which is why, a little ironically given my carping above, I'll take Beres Hammond looking back to doowop over the maybewecouldbreakthisinAmerica Rihannaisms of Lukie D and M'Lonie's \"No Air\".Speaking of the tried and true: No roots singer here approaches Sizzla for sheer emotionpernote intensity. On \"Gwaan Bear\" he snarls sweetly, which I wasn't even sure was possible before listening, as if he hit the studio expecting a furious dancehall track and decided to run with it when his producer keyed up the plangent guitars. And though none of them is quite as unique as Sizzla, it's the voices that provide the bulk of Biggest Reggae OneDrop Anthems's pleasure/interest. It's a suitably oldschool virtue to center a retrominded series around, but if you're new to roots reggae, you're still better off exploring the oldschool before dallying with the retro. "}