{"label":" Tree","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1372/homepage_large.23edc0fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Cerberus Shoal","title":"'...And Farewell to Hightide/Lighthouse in Athens' and 'Elements of Structure/Permanence'","text":" Inching towards the end of their first decade together, Cerberus Shoal have survived the disruptions of a band twice their age: constant lineup changes, label moves, and erratic reissues that barely keep their catalog in print. Along the way they've grown from their selftitled debut a hardcore record full of unreflective howls from upset youngsters to a band that's impossible to categorize beyond the allpurpose term \"avant rock.\" Based out of \"America's First Portland\" (Maine), Cerberus Shoal reflect some of the crunchier elements of their hometown their shambolic instrumentals can evoke the sound of an ancient, tribal dopesmoking ritual but they're far from a hippie band: even their jams avoid the aimless plod of stoner rock, and duck the smug academic fervor that taints so much experimental music. Probably the most important quality to their music, going all the way back to that first hardcore record, is simply that they're patient: they'll give an idea the time it needs to unfold, and whatever their destination, they'll just get there when they get there. Their second and possibly their best record ...and Farewell to Hightide newly reissued on Temporary Residence has a resonance that pulls its songs into an engrossing suite. The five tracks move with the force and breadth; they're captivating right from the start of \"Falling to Pieces Part One\", where a shimmering organ embeds Chriss (sic) Sutherland's voice, moaning and tuneful, while lightlyseared noises swoop in like bony crows. The song crackles with anticipation, which bursts when they cut to \"Broken Springs Spring Forth From Broken Clocks\" an explosively loose jam that's wellpaced but as ferocious as its title. More than half the pieces feature Sutherland's vocals, but he doesn't corral the music into rigid structure as much as add another layer to the stretchedout textures. Half the time he's just speaking, delivering a kind of obsessive monologue especially on the record's centerpiece, \"J.B.O. vs. Blin\", where he nails the sound of endless latenight selfrecrimination. He harps on the word \"failure\" while Jeremy Federman's echoey trumpet circles him, hashing outs his thoughts in a glowing twelveminute dirge. Though the shortest piece on Farewell... runs 6plus minutes, only \"Make Winter a Driving Song\" feels too long and then only because it sounds so contented. The rest of the album rocks gently between tension and resolution, until it closes on an unexpectedly lovely finish: in \"Falling to Pieces Part Two\", Sutherland's musings come to a kind of peace against a backdrop of flute, violin and piano. If this album resembles latenight insomnia, this is the point where whether or not he's solved the world's problems Sutherland finally drifts off. This reissue comes with bonus material that's cordoned off to a second disc: the songs \"Lighthouse in Athens\" parts one and two, which include beautiful fragments of gray, yearning postrock. The songs show that Sutherland while heartfelt and often captivating lacks the range or force to be a fulltime lead vocalist, even in the idiosyncratic vein of a Sam Prekop. The tunes aren't as fleshedout or visionary as the proper album, though they're enjoyable enough Bsides from the road not taken. Which brings us to Cerberus Shoal's third album, also just reissued by Temporary Residence: Elements of Structure/Permanence, their first allinstrumental disc. A local artist named Tim Fallon had asked them to record soundtracks for two halfhour silent films; the band used this as a chance to work with musicians from two other Maine groups, Tarpigh and Interstellar Policeman. The final pickup band included nine people, who performed the pieces as group improvisations, finishing them both in a couple of takes. Right away, it's amazing how well this group coheres: the rhythm section locks together, as Sutherland uses slow, heavy bass lines while drummer Tom Rogers and percussionist Eric LaPerna goad the rest of the band to life. Tom Kovasevic's charango, and Tim Harbeson's accordion and trumpet thread color into the slow, dense pieces: even without a composition to guide them, the band expertly swells and contracts. This is a collective that knows how to work a crescendo. Unfortunately, the musicians hang together so well that they end up playing it safe. Nobody takes a risk after the first ten or so seconds, and the two pieces come out sounding almost exactly alike. The soloists are passive noone wanders far from the path marked out by the rhythm section and the band never leaves a somber, midtempo pace. Even after the second track slides into a faintly audible percussion interlude, it just comes back to pick up right where it left off. Still, Elements is memorable as the point where Cerberus Shoal turned away from \"songwriting.\" Tarpigh merged with the band, bringing their Middle Eastern influence; while they continue to change directions and lineups Cerberus Shoal's later work is full of clanking, exotic percussion, jagged guitars and instrumentals that can dart by like shards or stretch out like caravans. Few of their works are as longwinded as Elements of Structure/Permanence, but like ...and Farewell to Hightide, it proves they can give their ideas all the time they need to unfold: their meandering gives them the strength to scale mountains. "}