{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14886/homepage_large.44eca07a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Portastatic","title":"Make It Sound in Tune","text":" Cruising through the compulsively readable Our Noise: The Story of Merge Records, last year's excellent oral history of Merge Records, one comes away with the impression that the label wouldn't have lasted nearly this long if it didn't have so much continued faith in its acts. Sure, cofounder Mac McCaughan may have his favorites, but it always seemed like he rooted just as hard for acts such as Butterglory and East River Pipe as he did for such heavy hitters as Arcade Fire and Spoon.McCaughan cites both the Merge covers collection Score! and the occasional acoustic bookstore appearance supporting Our Noise as the inspiration for the recent Portastatic release Make It Sound in Tune, a sevensong EP of Merge act tracks given the Portastatic treatment, but that's just a roundabout way of citing all the hundreds of Merge acts he's supported over the years. \"Obviously, the Merge catalog is full of hundreds thousands, actually of songs I love, so I picked ones I either knew well or thought I could recreate without defiling too harshly,\" posted McCaughan, modestly. \"It wasn't easy to narrow down, so I just tried not to think about it too much.\"True to his loyal instincts, the seven songs McCaughan picked to cover run the Merge gamut, from the obvious (Spoon and Magnetic Fields) to the unsung (Matt Suggs and Spent) to the cultish (Lambchop and Destroyer) to one song from Christchurch's Renderers, its source a oneoff 7\" from 1993. Also true to his word, none of these covers defile the original. Rather, they do the acts and the Merge catalog proud, underscoring the countless numbers of gems and minor classics the label has curated alongside its conspicuous heavy hitters.It is interesting how easily McCaughan adopts, adapts, and otherwise sublimates such distinct songwriter personalities as Britt Daniel, Stephin Merritt, Kurt Wagner, and Dan Bejar. Admittedly, \"Anything You Want\" is one of Spoon's more straightforward songs, but McCaughan's version replaces the bright production with rougher lofi edges without ruining its tunefulness. The version of \"Old Orchard Beach\", from the Susan Anwayera of the Magnetic Fields (which also produced \"100,000 Fireflies\", a song that Superchunk liked to cover), is supported by Merritt's oldschool allegiance to popular song structure, which McCaughan exploits with bits of strings, sax, processed vocals, and echoing drums. The more eccentric Wagner and Bejar port over just as well, the former's \"The Saturday Option\" (from What Another Man Spills) surviving the transition from Wagner's rumble to Mac's yelp, and the innate melodrama of the latter's \"Foam Hands\" subverted by the addition of a charming children's choir.Which brings us back to McCaughan's enduring feelings for the less obvious corners of the Merge catalog. Matt Suggs never broke through as some predicted, but the version of his \"Where's Your Patience, Dear?\" from 2000's Golden Days Before They End is pleasant enough to warrant a return to the original for another shot. Spent's \"West\" is no less lovely, further indication that the New Jersey group got unfairly lost in the shuffle during the mid90s indie boom. As for the Renderers' \"A Million Lights\", chalk Portastatic's pretty rendition up as another representation of Merge's longtime and somewhat unappreciated support of oft distributionchallenged New Zealand acts.As McCaughan himself concedes, he could have chosen any number of alternates for the EP, or, for that matter, just kept recording in perpetuity. Twenty years down the line, it's clear the guy doesn't play favorites. This is all music close to his heart, so it's no surprise that this mini trip down memory lane should prove so heartfelt. And if you didn't like the guy's ethic to begin with, all proceeds go to charity. Talk about sharing the love. "}