{"label":" Now Again","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14899/homepage_large.bdb26bf4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Forge Your Own Chains: Heavy Psychedelic Ballads and Dirges 1968-1974","text":" When it comes to cratedigging labels dedicated to documenting niche scenes, there are two extremes you often wind up dealing with. On the one hand, there's the gatekeepers garagepunk supremacists, Northern Soul zealots that see their efforts as the preservation of a great subgenre. They're crazy and you don't want to strike up conversations with them at record fairs, but their fundamentalist attitude at least tends to result in their compilations being pretty consistent. And at the other end, there's the generalinterest guys, the ones who started as sample hunters and wound up getting drawn into their source material. At best, they build unexpected and illuminating connections between bands and scenes that never knew of each other's existence; at worst, they sometimes mistake \"I found it first\" for \"this should be heard immediately.\"NowAgain falls in that second, egalitarian category, and Forge Your Own Chains represents the best and worst of that impulse. To the credit of curator Egon, his liner notes state that the purpose of this collection isn't to show off a bunch of rare collectorbaiting nuggets but to find common threads between an international assemblage of acidrock oddities. And the subtitle Heavy Psychedelic Ballads and Dirges points to an intriguing vein of music; more intriguing yet is the aim of collecting variations of it from five different continents. But when you're working with psychedelic rock, one of the most uneven genres when it comes to old, smallpress, and privatepress releases, even the best intentions can result in a bit of a mess.The good news with Forge Your Own Chains is that listening to it all the way through will leave you with both positive first and last impressions. Bookending the comp with its two most sprawling and intense tracks is a canny move, and what Top Drawer's mournful, wailingguitarinacathedral epic \"Song of a Sinner\" and the openthrottle squall of Baby Grandmothers' \"Somebody's Calling My Name\" share is a sense of slowlybuilding anxiety, which they use to different ends. But a sizeable chunk of the stuff between these two tracks lacks a lot of their focused intensity, and there's moments where a conceptually promising piece of music is let down by an amateurism that can't quite match the ambition. D.R. Hooker's title track is the emblematic example: halfway between eccentric brilliance and periodpiece hippiedip, it flouts convention by throwing jazzy horn section counterpoints over its mellow folkrock but suffers from a weirdly slack, wetnoodle vocal that drains almost all the energy from the song. There's a few other songs that sound like firsttake shrugs chief amongst them being Shadrack Chameleon's \"Don't Let It Get You Down\", a soporific granolarock downer that makes like a Derek & the Dominos ballad without the solos. Ellison's \"Strawberry Rain\" and Morly Grey's \"Who Can I Say You Are\" fare better by fusing weighty protometal with leftfield forays into doowop or acoustic pastoralism, though they still sound unfocused in the end.When Forge Your Own Chains stretches past the boundaries of North American and European rock, it gets a bit more interesting. Shin Jung Hyun & the Men's \"Twilight\" (also known as \"The Evening Sun\") introduces one of South Korea's biggest rock icons to a wider Western audience through a sweeping epic ballad that lands somewhere between Ennio Morricone and the Moody Blues. Iranian Kourosh Yaghmaei's \"Hajme Khaali\" is a bleak, spooky rumination on loneliness with a quietverseloudchorus structure run through by a breathtaking guitar. And Ofege's \"It's Not Easy\" is what happens when a bunch of high school students from Lagos set about capturing the mood of Traffic's \"Dear Mr. Fantasy\", with a sweetly sad love song as a result.Hitandmiss as Forge Your Own Chains is, there's no denying it was put together to be more than just a quickbuck eBay loot showcase, and the amount of research and care that went into Egon's liner notes is truly edifying detailing as much personnel, label names, producers, engineers, and backstory as possible. And despite the sometimes amateurish nature of this music, there's also the melancholy undercurrent of something that was lost to time, scarcity, and disinterest. Some of the musicians who appear on this compilation appear briefly with a few quotes about their old craft, but Top Drawer, the band that memorably leads off Forge Your Own Chains, are said in the notes to have disappeared off the radar completely. But it's also a bit revealing about the nature of the vinyl hunter: \"Damon's Song of a Gypsy was the key chapter in the lonely story about the psychedelic record collectors that searched out the rarest of the rare privately pressed American albums in the mid 1980s and early 90s and those that wanted to be like them,\" begins one blurb. Whether they dredge up garbage or gold, here's to their endless search. "}