{"label":" Not Not Fun","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14891/homepage_large.a1c665d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Robedoor","title":"Raiders","text":" When I first heard them in 2007, on a magnificent split release with Pocahaunted, L.A. duo Robedoor sounded like a drone band with doommetal leanings. The more of their stuff I tracked down and there's a lot of it the more vivid that image became, convincing me they were heirs to the path carved by Double Leopards, Axolotl, My Cat Is an Alien, and Yellow Swans. But others feel Robedoor's entrancing combo of heavy atmosphere, endless vibrations, and dark, dense tones makes them more a doommetal band with drone overtones like a looser, grimier version of Sleep or Sunn O))).That distinction may ultimately be academic, but whatever they were before, Robedoor may have finally swung their pendulum toward doommetal. Easily their most songoriented effort, Raiders is driven by Sabbathy bass chug, momentous crash/pound drumming, and moaning vocals that conjure a Satanic ritual. Alex and Britt Brown (no relation) have dabbled in beats and riffs before, but here they fully commit, letting their swirling noises and enveloping drones grow out of patterns rather than vice versa. The effect is intentional as Britt recently told me in an email, their goal was \"to consolidate all the sprawling dungeon improv Robedoor aesthetics into shorter, replicable songs.\"Raiders is certainly the first Robedoor record that I've found myself humming along to. The big fat bass riff on \"Indo Shadow\" (played by longtime Robedoor producer Ged Gengras) is instantly memorable, launching the Browns into starry guitar/drum cacophony. Fourteenminute closer \"The Downcast Eye\" takes a similar tack, rocking like a creaky boat on a foggy, black sea. \"The downcast eye is the only eye I know,\" Britt intones, suggesting a vision darker than that of the L.A. bands Robedoor share stages and labels with (Britt runs Not Not Fun with his wife Amanda of Pocahaunted). But somehow the band's blurry, hallucinatory music makes underground L.A. seem just as dreamlike as it does in sunnier work by groups like the Mae Shi and Foot Village.Still, Robedoor fit best in the global drone underground, and with lots of the best bands drifting away Yellow Swans broke up in 2008, and Double Leopards have been on extended hiatus since before then the Browns have become flamekeepers alongside Emeralds, Black to Comm, Jazzfinger, and Sun Araw. It's a role they may be too modest to claim, but judging by Raiders (and the forthcoming Burners, another songoriented affair and their first album as a trio with Gengras), the drone fire is in good hands. "}