{"label":" Ye Olde","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14914/homepage_large.bb38ec4e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Juliana Hatfield","title":"Peace and Love","text":" By now, Juliana Hatfield's business accomplishments have far outstripped her musical ones. In the early 1990s, she turned her cult notoriety with Blake Babies into \"120 Minutes\" buzz, and she harnessed the momentum from her 1993 decentseller Become What You Are into something resembling a career. She's still going strong at a time when most of her altpeers have long ago faded into obscurity or nostalgia tours. More than 20 years after her first recorded notes, she runs her own label (Ye Olde Records) and tours and releases albums on her own schedule. On her 10th solo album, Peace & Love, she goes from being her own boss to being her only employee: Not only did she record and produce it herself, but she played all the instruments, including guitar, piano, drums, and bass.Her DIY sensibility, still intact so deep into her career, is certainly admirable. Too bad it's not put in service of better music. With its acoustic strums and coffeehouse intimacy, Peace & Love sounds like that stalest of 90s relics: the unplugged album. In fact, it seems to be defined by Hatfield's  limitations rather than her strengths. Her playing is rudimentary throughout, and while occasionally that beginner's aesthetic leads to some nice moments, such as the overlapping guitar lines that open the instrumental \"Unsung\", generally it makes the absence of a full band seem like a bad idea. The lead guitar licks that open the title track are graceless and awkward; on piano, she repeats the same theme over and over until it grates; and on drums, she barely keeps time.Hatfield's voice has aged well over the years or, more to the point, it hasn't aged at all. While her kidsister inflection might seem to undermine the maturity of her recent output, it actually adds a new and bittersweet dimension to some of her lyrics. At least that's how 2008's pained How to Walk Away worked. On Peace & Love, her songwriting sags with too many awkward rhyme schemes, clunky line meters, and cometogether pronouncements. \"Why can't we love each other?\" she asks on \"Why Can't We Love Each Other?\" \"I won't give up on peace and love,\" she declares on the title track.Of course Peace & Love picks up considerably when she gets away from saving the world, but then again, the only difference between \"Butterflies\" and a middling Jewel song is history. \"I Picked You Up\" manages to devise a catchy chorus, but then runs it into the ground with too many repetitions. Some electricity might have given these songs some muchneeded life, or sturdier lyrics might have given her acoustic DIY project a weightier anchor. As it is, Peace & Love sounds like a rough draft full of rookie mistakes, rather than a veteran defiantly going it alone. "}