{"label":" Aagoo","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14910/homepage_large.16f65c74.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"AU","title":"Versions","text":" In part because of the loose, revolvingdoor nature of their group, Portland's AU have been difficult to pin down. Though singer/songwriter Luke Wyland and percussionist Dana Valatka have remained the band's creative anchor, AU have often swelled to include a dozen or more players, once topping out at 20 total musicians. And despite frequent comparisons to Animal Collective and Grizzly Bear, they've also suffered from a lack of attention, remaining on the outer fringes of the indie world. With mostly strong records and an unusual, imaginative approach that seems like a shame. Perhaps wanting to correct this disparity, Wyland and Valatka have taken a more streamlined approach to their latest EP, Versions, stripping AU down to its most essential elements.Versions, as its title suggests, is basically a reworking of the band's own material, featuring five reinterpretations of songs from their two previous albums (AU and Verbs, from 2006 and 2008) and one new track, \"Ida Walked Away\". Without the guest musicians who crowded earlier records, Wyland and Valatka, who are said to share a \"special, oneonone musical connection,\" are left to imagine new outcomes for their songs, which in just about every case improve upon the source material. Whether it's because of an increased focus or the long time Wyland and Valatka have spent with these tracks, AU just sound like a better band here, more flexible and distinctive. Wiser, too: They highlight their strengths Wyland's impressive throaty vibrato, for one and strip arrangements down to more manageable sizes.Past records have found AU navigating the space between roomy experimental folk and more exuberant, campfiresung freakouts, furthering the similarities between them and the wellknown indie bands attached to these styles. But on Versions AU sound decidedly more singular. \"All Myself\" was an ornate, Yellow Houseian folk undertaking when it appeared on 2008's Verbs, but here the band transforms it into a spare piano ballad, giving Wyland enough space to open up vocally. His singing, unique and expressive before, comes into its own on the EP, sounding like a lowerregister Antony. Even on more whimsical tracks like \"Are Animals\" and \"RR vs. D\" (those that teetered on the edge of wacky before), AU sound poised, sparingly using elements like group chants and handclaps in a way that doesn't detract attention from the core melodies.This tasteful, lessismore approach spills over into slow burners \"Boute\" and \"Death\", but the real gem here is new track \"Ida Walked Away\", which made the rounds as a single last year. Probably the most openly poppy thing AU have done to date, the song reads like a modern take on the classic loverdon'tgo ballad, with Wyland pleading with his mate in its aching, skyward chorus. There's a circular, momentumgaining quality to \"Ida\" and it works not only as an intriguing structure but also an emotive, popleaning step for the band that encapsulates what's encouraging about this release. If Wyland and Valatka (with or without their stable of contributors) can continue along this path, the next AU fulllength should shrug off the comparisons that have dogged them to date. "}