{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14907/homepage_large.c615ef89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"AFCGT","title":"AFCGT","text":" Is this the weirdest Sub Pop release ever? The label has always kept an eye on the underunderground, putting out Postal Service with one hand while sneaking out a Wolf Eyes album with the other not to mention releasing the final record by the stillunderrated AFrames, some of whose members make up AFCGT. But if you were looking for the dark minimalist guitar rock of that band (or their offshoot, the Intelligence), AFCGT ain't it; and even if you were familiar with the drones and sound collages of Climax Golden Twins, among whose members also make AFCGT, you still likely aren't prepared for what this record sounds like. The meeting of the atmospheric and the angular takes both approaches to someplace often bewildering and wholly unexpected. Even among the subgenres that make up noise and drone, they still defy categorization.It's not very mixtapefriendly, but given the members' respective backgrounds, the band's palette is stunningly large. \"Black Mark\" has a twonote riff that sounds on the verge of collapse before it finally does break. \"TwoLegged Dog\" stretches some muted, watery guitar chords on a loop, over which squealing, textural guitar congeals into a thick psychedelic stew. \"New Punk 27\" stops and starts in fits, with grooves and riffs rising out of fullband chaos, and \"Reasonably Nautical\" is an uneasy rising drone of washedout guitar, field recordings, and white noise. \"Nacht\" and \"Slide 9\" are ominous almostgrooves of cymbal taps and guitar squiggles; the former has vocals, but modulated down to a thick drawl and in a foreign language. You may have heard some of this before, but never put together in quite such a way.It's clear the group is more concerned with courting chaos and incorporating it into their compositions than they are with versechorusverse. That said, there are moments, flashes, and vibes here that are indelible, like the teethgrinding groove that closes \"Nacht\" or the moments of \"New Punk\" where the jarring quick edits drop away to anguished, muffled vocals. One gets the feeling AFCGT are continually reediting and recontextualizing snippets from one strange, endless jam. The pieces on this particular release are disparate even earlier AFCGT releases had more of a bandintheroom feel to them but it's a tradeoff to show what different sounds the band can summon, which are often fascinating and affecting. "}