{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14913/homepage_large.4d510739.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2010","text":" One decade in, Kompakt's Pop Ambient series can stand tall next to its brotherinarms Total series as a documentation of the style and form of a singular label. Plenty has changed in 10 years, though, and Kompakt's totem franchises now seem like matters of simple upkeep rather than label highlights or genre events. Kompakt's two major releases in 2009, the Field's Yesterday & Today and Matias Aguayo's Ay Ay Ay, both saw attention from more than dedicated beatheads, while PA09 featured more tracks than ever from outside the label's roster. Perhaps appropriately, there is a chorelike throb to PA10, with many series standbys swapping back in and few draws for the merely curious.The Pop Ambient series is a little like living in a small town, such that the standards for big news are radically altered. Here's your PA10 headline: 2009's breakout experimental composer, Brock Van Wey, appears twice as bvdub, serving up an EP's worth (21+ minutes) of new music. Other notasfrequent contributors to the series include DJ Koze (a Total regular) and the rare new production from Dettinger.If there's a sonic constant this year, it's slowly revolving peals of sound: guitars, pianos, and horns set to slowly lap against background tones. There is an attractive industriousness to Jürgen Paape's \"864M\", while Koze's \"Bodenweich\" pairs padded piano chords against slurring electronics. Bvdub impresses twice, first with the haunted vocal patches of \"Lest You Forget\" and, moreso, with the 17minute \"Will You Know Where to Find Me\", which beautifully splices a choral sample into sheets of divanoise, easily competing with the best of 2009's White Clouds Drift On and On.Next to bvdub's material, however, much of PA10 seems overly simple. Dettinger's \"Therefore\" features a twosecond rhythmic shard looped for more than five minutes of wearying homogeneity. Marsen Jules' albumopening \"The Sound of One Lip Kissing\" features huge reverberating pianos that clang and batter to distraction. Old hands the Orb turn in the sleepy \"Glen Coe\", which wavers and reflects dully. Andrew Thomas and Mikkel Metal, two frequent PA contributors, each offer a track of harmless soundsculpting.PA10 arrives as Total 10 did last year: without fanfare or notice celebrating a decade of studious, mostly worthwhile compiling (one could reasonably argue that two regular labelcomps per year is celebration enough). Instead, we get another workmanlike volume, one less distinguished and notable than its predecessors. Next year's model will almost surely arrive, just as regular and with as little fanfare; here's hoping it better reflects Kompakt's still considerable import. "}