{"label":" Because","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14917/homepage_large.2bfc4057.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Charlotte Gainsbourg","title":"IRM","text":" Before summer 2007, Charlotte Gainsbourg was best known as the daughter of gallic godhead Serge Gainsbourg, a curiously magnetic actress with a diverse CV (romantic comedies, dark dramas, period pieces), and a parttime singer still working in the shadow of a mildly pedophilic 1984 duet recorded with her father called \"Lemon Incest\". Then Charlotte Gainsbourg nearly died. Weeks after a minor water skiing accident, she went to the doctor with headaches only to learn her hemorrhaged head was filled with blood.After summer 2007 (and successful brain surgery), the actresssinger filmed three intense movies including Lars von Trier's frightful Antichrist, in which she plays a grieving mother who wanders around an isolated cabin without pants on before mutilating her genitals. She also recorded IRM, a decidedly more palatable posttrauma piece. Written, arranged, produced, and largely played by Beck, the collaborative album marks Gainsbourg's transition from pop scion to pop artiste.Gainsbourg's mother, singer and actress Jane Birkin, often played muse for Serge, whether she was cover star of 1971's Histoire de Melody Nelson or making orgasmic sounds on the hit duet \"Je t'aime...moi non plus\". And while IRM is marked by Beck's singular sonic accoutrements, it often plays as if Charlotte is using him for inspiration. The musey confusion is both sensible Beck interpolated Serge's \"Melody\" on Sea Change and oddly fated.Beck's always had a cocked eye on death (remember that roaming pine box in the \"Loser\" video?) and his last three albums have focused on the ultimate end with unwavering abstract paranoia. If he's not sending up \"Profanity Prayers\" on Modern Guilt, he's seeing \"Strange Apparitions\" on The Information; as far as I know Beck did not have a neardeath experience sometime around 2003, but he's been obsessed with poking at his forsaken soul ever since. Flip to Charlotte who became so haunted by her death scare that she underwent several MRIs (or IRMs, as the French call them) even after fully recovering and you've got a meeting of almost40yearold minds bent on exploring all the fears, mysteries, and anxieties that make death breathe. There's something to Gainsbourg's skeletonlike visage on the album's cover.\"Heaven can wait and hell's too far to go/ Somewhere between what you need and what you know,\" sing the pair on duet \"Heaven Can Wait\". The purgatory set up in those words informs the album's lyrics and mood, which live up to Beck's more ominous and serious guise. Whereas it can sometimes sound like Beck's already halfway into his crypt on his own songs, Gainsbourg is defiant, warm, and stoic in the face of flatlines. What could be depressing turns into a whimsical shrug on \"In the End\" \"Who's to say it's all for the best in the end?\" hums Gainsbourg, comfortable in the unknowing. And on \"Master's Hands\", she's anything but helpless in the face of an Almighty Creator as she demands, \"Breathe out, come alive/ Give me a reason to feel.\" She's in control, even when she's not.There's nothing close to a love song here, a severe turnaround from Gainsbourg's Airproduced, Jarvis Cockerwritten 2006 LP 5:55, which was full of sordid, shrouded, and oddly lifeless tales of crumbling hearts. But the thematic switch goes lengths to give Gainsbourg her own identity apart from her amorous lineage. The closest thing to a Valentine's Day ode is found on the incubated folk tune \"Me and Jane Doe\". \"If I had my way I'd cross the desert to the sea/ Learn to speak in tongues, something that makes sense to you and to me,\" she sings, longingly.Another reason to believe IRM is more than a highly accomplished puppet job: It's actually better than any album Beck himself has released in the last seven years. The nods to psych rock, junkyard blues, halfrap cadences, and ghostly ballads won't shock anyone generally familiar with Beck's oeuvre, but Gainsbourg's versatile and vulnerable vocals add a depth missing from much of her songwriter's postSea Change work.She makes the most of her limited vocal abilities by switching deliveries to match her surroundings. The barely there orchestral stunner \"Vanities\" (arranged by Beck's dad David Campbell) gets a hushed quiver, the streamofconsciousness brainscan rock of \"IRM\" gets a zen rap, and, on the halfFrench closer \"La Collectionneuse\", she whispers close to your ear like a sultry grim reaper. The subject matter subverts her inherent sensuousness, but this is still Charlotte Gainsbourg singing at times, she can't help sounding like the cooing French goddess her father helped popularize. It's dead sexy, reborn. "}