{"label":" Polydor","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14904/homepage_large.f97f19fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen Troussé","artist":"Delphic","title":"Acolyte","text":" Delphic emerged from the BBC's recent poll of tastemakers as the nation's most hotly tipped new indie band, but in 2010, in the UK, this is not such a great accolade. It's a sign of the postBritpop times that in the final tipsheet the band actually finished third, trailing behind a couple of arty female pop acts (think this year's version of Florence, or Little Boots). While 2009 was a golden year for U.S. indie, in the UK it was the moment the term \"landfill indie\" went mainstream, denoting the domestic glut of torpid, timid, generically retrogressive guitar bands. The postStrokes tide that kept British indie afloat through the 00s, from Franz Ferdinand to the Libertines to the Arctic Monkeys, has finally gone out, leaving a clueless generation of charmless groups high and dry.Delphic are being heralded as a way out of this dismal situation. They're wired and sequenced for the dancefloor, as opposed to plodding and strummed for the student moshpit; suited and booted rather than dowdy in denim; stylishly poised rather than scuffling and shambolic. On the face of it they represent a break from recent orthodoxy; in truth, it's hardly a novel approach. In recent months Snow Patrol returned averring that there'd always been a dance element to their music, while Editors attempted to update their reference points all the way from 1980 to 1982 with the addition of a few studiously vintage synthesizers.In fact, if Editors had shown real commitment, persuaded their singer to take one for the team, and recruited the drummer's girlfriend on keyboards, they would doubtless sound an awful lot like Acolyte. To have reached the third paragraph of a Delphic review without mentioning New Order is practically a feat of selfdiscipline, but it can be avoided no longer. Delphic, let's be clear, are a rather brazen yet undistinguished attempt to reconstruct and exploit the trappings of Factory Manchester circa 1985.The funny thing is, the odd crackling guitar line and synthpad chord change apart, they actually don't sound very much like New Order. All three Delphicians did national service in the landfill trenches, and at their worst, on tracks like the opening \"Clarion Call\" and \"This Momentary\" you can still hear the lumbering basslines and prosaic piano chords of some subColdplay sketch, like old wallpaper under a cheap lick of paint. At their best, the spangled guitar and chattering sequencers are more likely to put you in mind of the fleeting beauty of \"Perfume\" by Madchester alsorans Paris Angels, or even late 80s ravepop chancers the Beloved.Though the band protest that Factory comparisons are unwanted but inevitable for any Manchester group attempting to marry rock dynamics with dance technology, that they are far too young to remember the Hacienda and are more influenced by German minimal techno, they desperately invite the comparison. Titles like \"Halcyon\", \"Ephemera\", and \"Submission\" are simply gagging to be expensively set in sepulchral type by Peter Saville. It's like they've audaciously claimed the rights to the Factory franchise, like one of those authors who's commissioned to write the new James Bond novel or Gone With the Wind sequel. And inescapably the comparison, once raised, does them no favors. Though both groups are fronted, on the face of it, by poor singers reciting vapid lyrics, you're left pondering once again the strange alchemy by which Barney Sumner was so often so lazily transcendent. And as any busker who's bashed out \"Bizarre Love Triangle\" will tell you, New Order's melodies which you'll search for in vain on Acolyte are indestructibly lovely.To be fair, Acolyte is never less than stylish: dusted with powder, brushed and polished to a fine gleam, as shiny but generic as a new car. Producer Ewan Pearson has constructed a shimmering, relentless soundworld and a couple of tracks \"Doubt\" and \"Counterpoint\" attain an urgent, anxious euphoria. It's just that it feels so characterless and anonymous.Maybe in the end, Delphic are as authentic an expression of modernday Manchester as Joy Division were of the city in their own time. It was one of the more dubious claims of Tony Wilson, after all, that Factory remade the city in its own image, that the Hacienda, once built, was a premonition and inspiration for the 21st century city of steel and glass. The British urbanist Owen Hatherley has written of how modern Mancunian speculators these days actively trade on the legacy of Factory, of how old industrial warehouses had been transformed into \"cramped speculative blocks marketed as 'luxury flats' or 'stunning developments' with an attenuated, vaguely Scandinavian aesthetic.\" He adopted the term \"pseudomodernism\" to describe this capitalist appropriation of modernism as spectacle or logo, divorced from any social or political ideal. It's a term that might serve just as well to describe Delphic, or indeed a great deal of British music today, vainly trading on the modernist impulse of their 80s forebears. \"Pseumo Pop,\" then: it's no landfill indie, but for now it will have to do. "}