{"label":" World Circuit","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14923/homepage_large.118260ab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Ali Farka Touré / Toumani Diabaté","title":"Ali and Toumani","text":" Ali Farka Touré died in 2006. He lived a long and productive life, giving a great deal of marvelous recorded music to the world, seeking ways to bridge the regional musical traditions of his homeland, Mali, and developing a guitar style all his own. He recorded only a few times in the final years of his life, having retired to become the mayor of his hometown, Niafunké he used his own money to improve the roads and sewage system, and fueled the town's generator as well. The recordings on this album, the second collaboration between Touré and Diabaté after 2005's justly lauded In the Heart of the Moon, are the last Touré ever made, and they are uncommonly beautiful.Diabaté is a 71stgeneration musician, and his mastery of the harplike kora is complete. He's perfectly comfortable playing traditional songs that stretch back centuries or sitting in on a Björk album, and to hear him play with Touré is a treat. These two men, so different in age and background, nonetheless seem to inhabit the same mind for the length of the sessions. They are joined here and there by guest musicians, including Touré's son, Vieux, and legendary Cuban double bassist Orlando \"Cachaíto\" López (this is also his final recording), but the focus is on the interplay between the two principles. Touré treated the sessions as though he knew they may be his last, returning to his roots to play \"Sina Mory\", the song that inspired him to pick up the guitar in 1956, and \"Sabu Yerkoy\", a celebration of Malian independence in his repertoire since the 60s, but recorded only this one time.For as much pain as he was apparently in, Touré's guitar work sounds untouched by illness. In fact, his playing on opener \"Ruby\" named by Touré for producer Nick Gold's young daughter is so supple and intuitive that he sounds like a much younger man as Diabaté joins him, surrounding his hypnotic figures with fluid runs on the kora. They brilliantly display their telepathic sympathy during onthespot improvisation \"Fantasy\", which finds Touré creating a series of anchoring phrases for Diabaté to leap off. On \"Samba Geladio\", you can begin to hear the ways in which Touré's music was a cousin of (but not derived from nor a direct source for) the blues as he pulls some ferocious phrases from his acoustic guitar.Gold and engineer Jerry Boys captured these sessions with uncompromising intimacy if you turn it up you can hear the creak of chairs and even a cough. You get the feel of two of the world's greatest musicians in a room together, having a conversation and creating a document that will carry their legacy into the future. It is not challenging music. Anyone can approach it easily, and it is the perfect initiation to Touré's talents for listeners who haven't yet heard him. "}