{"label":" Subliminal Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14922/homepage_large.033b053b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"The Amazing","title":"The Amazing","text":" Despite sharing two members (three if you count jackofalltrades contributor Frederik Swahn), the Amazing and Dungen don't sound overly similar. In the quickest, dirtiest sense, the Amazing trade Dungen singer and sole songwriter Gustav Ejstes for former Granada frontman Christoffer Gunrup, and where Ejstes sings entirely in Swedish, Gunrup opts for English. The two men don't share all of the same influences (though they do share some), and that's where the groups diverge, because if there's one thing Ejstes and Gunrup have in common, it's a keen faithfulness to their particular sources of inspiration. The Amazing's reference points aren't nearly as broad as Dungen's, but each project succeeds by reproducing vintage sounds so lovingly and masterfully that a lack of originality ceases to matter.Most people first caught wind of the Amazing late last year via the wonderfully lissome single \"Dragon\", the majority of which is given over to misty, moody acoustic folk rumination in the vein of Nick Drake. Almost half of the album explicitly mines this same terrain. The achingly sensitive, fingerpicked fragilities \"Beach House\", \"Is It Likely\", and \"The Strangest Thing\" may skirt the line that keeps out soggily simplistic pushovers like Damien Rice and David Gray, but Gunrup's alluring lyrics and the sheer loveliness of the instrumentation ensure they stay on the nondouchey side of the divide.The element of \"Dragon\" that leaps out on first listen is its beautifully fluid twinguitar refrain that evokes the easybake grooves of the Allman Brothers Band and the Grateful Dead. This sundappled style crops up again at various points on the album, and, in a more general sense, the parts of the record that don't find Gunrup conjuring up Drake's pink moons and northern skies instead see the band exploring various permutations of stonerfriendly rock. Opener \"The Kirwan Song\" features a sublime interpolation of Fleetwood Mac's \"Sunny Side of Heaven\", penned by the eponymous Danny Kirwan and recorded just as the Mac were transitioning from jamfriendly bluesrock to softfocus pop. Fittingly, Gunrup and co. take Kirwan's original, intimate instrumental and blow it up to stadium size, complete with thunderous drum rolls from Dungen kitmaster Johan Holmegard. That's just a warmup for the massive, molten \"Code II\", a roiling monolith of wicked, doomy guitar shards and more skullrattling drumming.The hazy, heavily treated \"Dead\" could pass for midperiod Flaming Lips, but it's on the penultimate \"Had to Keep Walking\" that the Amazing really kick into interstellar overdrive. As the song cycles through a cerebral, ruminative groove, it touches on postrock before melting into a keyboardladen head trip ripped straight from the Tangerine Dream and Pink Floyd playbooks. As farflung as Dungen may be, they're clearly not going to be able to exhaust every avenue of albumera revivalism all by themselves. "}