{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1376/homepage_large.62314d3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Cex","title":"Tall, Dark and Handcuffed","text":" Blues, punk, and hiphop are arguably the three genres of popular music most problematized by grand causal arcs and the myths of authenticity. Every punk chronicle (see The Filth and the Fury for a great filmic example) takes pains to link the idiom's genesis to societal rot, and to present its pioneers as singular and messianic. Blues patriarchs are particularly burdened with extratextual prerequisites: they could never just have been horny or melodic; they must have been poor, or criminals, or on Satan's guestlist, or channelers of the anguish of the enslaved. Yes Yes Y'all, a new oral history of hiphop's Cretaceous period, subtly makes the ancient argument that hiphop was born of urban decay and civil dysfunction, and that its early practitioners were visionaries whose realness the current church must strive to uphold. Shiiiit. Enter Ryan Kidwell, aka Cex, a talented, accomplished, and complicated 21 yearold who, for my filthy lucre, hasn't made a good album yet, despite his gifts with soundcollage and poseanalysis. He gets unfairly dubbed an nthgeneration suburban fraud, but wait: if that oftgonged municipal hellhole theory is valid, he should be packing more cred than Fitty Cent, because, let's face it (s'blanketstatement time, homesnakes), Baltimore sucks. That town's hipper denizens have been trying to construe John Waters' tackiness as a virtue for too long. Cex's BMore, which he extols on some of this album's better tracks (\"Gigolo Knights\", \"Ghost Rider\"), gave its oncecool downtown to ESPNZone, and embodies the worst elements of both sides of its NorthSouth conflation. The dumpsters there say \"Ameriwaste\" on them. The Great Blacks In Wax Museum is glorious, but all the nearby payperhour hotel rooms have tripods in them and guys in turbans swapping briefcases and jetskis in the parking lots. Cex keeps calling BMore by its chamberofcommerce mismoniker Charm City, when he's got to know that Harm City, Perm City, and Chud City are more befitting. But anyway, he rejects the rapasaculturalbarometer argument, rhyming on the bold \"Bad Acne\" that genres can be \"police states\": \"I'm not pissing on tradition but stagnation I be hating.\" Then he shoots down rap's Importance, saying it's not \"the key to revolution, it's just a fucking distraction.\" That copout is characteristic of this record, which takes risks but then insists that nothing's at stake (Temporary Residence honcho and Sonna frontman Jeremy Devine jokes of Cex on his eponymous skit, \"You're rapping about dodgeball and bicycles\"). Later during \"Acne\", Cex says he's \"never really been an entertainer, just a snake oil salesman.\" Now you can't hand a critic a lubricated mallet like that. Yes, this is Cex's first allMC venture, and though he was poised to drop a bomb, he dropped the ball; despite his ambition, he comes across as a nervous huckster who talks fast in hopes of preventing the listener from thinking. One minute he climbs the peaks of bragrap, and the next he's deprecating himself at the bottom of the ocean. One minute he's talking trash and trying to come across as wielding a mack's fleet wood; and the next he's all biographical and heartfelt, putting the emo in memoir. Mixing shit up is fine and all, but this record conveys a Cexintransition who is having a crisis of confidence about whether to keep being penischecking funny or to chase some bantam meaning. The amazingly urgent and ominous \"Childhood of a Leader\" (one of several weak titles see also \"Good Morning, Universe\") shows that Cex is thematically on par with Eminem, but the song's almost out of place on this gooftrip album (though Cex goes out with some Revelationrejecting 9/11 proclamations on the record's finale). His embarrassing flow suggests the Fresh Prince's early crap, or a pubescent Prime Minister Pete Nice. Only three beats on the album aren't cursory, and even his great backing tracks subscribe, unfortunately, to the dynamics of the indie rock Cex loved, saving their best moments for the choruses instead of rocking the whole time. The \"serious\" passages are uncomfortably close cousins of Cex's online blogs. The record seems like an aural playbill for Cex's swell live show instead of a standalone effort. He's frequently hilarious (the Jesus stuff, the Preparation H ref, the Morningstar corn dog allusion, the smart and partydenialtrolling line about orgasms that make his partner forget Afghanistan), but he seems capable of being much more than a glitchhop Andy Dick. This masturbauteur is very different from, say, a shameful Lou Barlow; he wants to get off on selling you raps about him getting himself off. Spare yourself from entering this feedback loop of need, which, if you'll forgive the inorganic fullcirclewholeness of this review, reminds me of the lifeforcedraining vibe of certain BMore streets. Cex's recorded output makes a case for considering him a fascinating exhibit, but not yet wholly an artist or entertainer. "}