{"label":" History Always Favours the Winners","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/14932/homepage_large.5e0f5c11.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Leyland Kirby","title":"Sadly, the Future Is No Longer What It Was","text":" James Leyland Kirby is an artist first and a musician second, which is another way of saying that his records can be more rewarding to think about than actually listen to. But that's not a value judgment, it's a confession and disclaimer and, effectively, a statement of fact that you can verify by trudging through some of the prose inspired by Sadly, the Future Is No Longer What It Once Was.All the highminded talk about Sadly is strange given how intuitive the music sounds. Where Kirby's first records (as V/VM) were little nightmares of aggression and pure provocation, Sadly three discs of anodyne melodies wandering through static and echo is all mood, composition, and performance. It might be dull music, but it's definitely music, which constitutes a radical change for a guy who once released a record filled with the sound of pigs feeding.The music on Sadly isn't ambient, or at least not how I think of ambient music. It doesn't meet the world halfway. Instead, it's a little like Charlie Brown's personal raincloud: allencompassing, portable melancholy. Its monotony is part of the point, I think, and its consistency is one of its virtues sometimes I forget that it's on until it's over and I'm sitting in my room feeling lightly bummed out about something I can't describe. Kirby is situating himself in a continuum with composers like Erik Satie and Harold Budd, or groups like Deathprod music whose finished state sounds halferased and feint. The conceptual thrust if you accept conceptual thrusts is a kind of fadedphotograph feeling, an effort to represent loss through degraded and scrapedaway sounds. The concept is ethereal, and the consistency of the product's effect can't really be guaranteed one person's hollowedout futurescapes of ruined beauty is another person's bore.Kirby's sound has mellowed, but his approach three discs, four hours, little variation is still extreme. While I hear the dark undercurrents in his music, I'm not sure he's any more interested in the evocation of emotion than other abstract instrumental composers, nor am I presumptuous enough to say whether or not he's better at evoking them. Sadly is a record I admire more often and more deeply than I feel it, but I definitely admire it mostly because Kirby makes music of stasis that doesn't announce itself as much as it seeps. It never grates and it never bores. At worst or, at best, depending on which side of the concept you're on Kirby's music just vanishes. "}