{"label":" Hefty","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/138/homepage_large.e3f21e5e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Dark","artist":"Aluminium Group","title":"Pelo","text":" Pelo is a pretty versatile word. According to my old college Spanish textbook, it translates as follows:pelo  n. 1. hair, coat of animal, down, fiber 2. hair trigger 3. triffle, nap, color of a horse 4. hairpiece, toupee In the case of the Aluminum Group's fourth release, I'd wager the rug definition is the most apt. They're both kitschy, questionable, and suggest a lifestyle that's usually the butt of jokes. But the vain man who dons a toupee is convinced it looks great, no matter how weighty the evidence to the contrary. It's the sort of affected sophistication that the Aluminum Group has raised to an artform. But it begs the question: \"Just why exactly?\"Pelo finds the influences of brothers John and Frank Navin firmly in place, if not their caliber of songwriting. The Aluminum Group sound is evident in every track, every lyric, every nuance. This shit is as smooth as a Bacharach's ass. It's a soundtrack to a 70s madeforTV movie, but a quality one something like Brian's Song or Sybil, not that Boy in the Plastic Bubble tripe. Some of the first few tracks are a little more daring than previous efforts by the Navins. Though not quite worthy of the adjective \"experimental\", they're definitely a departure for the group, who work in sampled noise and dancier beats on the opener, \"Pussycat\". But Pelo settles into its formfitting, comfy oeuvre soon enough. The toorich bass in \"If You've Got a Lover, You've Got Life\" gets the groove going early and is among the highlights of the disc. Ultimately, though, Pelo is a triumph of average a zerosum game. The few noteworthy tracks are negated by the bombs. For every standout, rare as they are, there are embarrassing nadirs like \"Tom of Finland (An Homage)\". Nobody had any business wasting perfectly good studio time ensuring that this turkey made it onto plastic. But maybe I assume too much. Perhaps the intended \"homage\" was slapintheface sarcastic so intentionally bad that Tom has rolled over in his grave with an embarrassed grimace. Equally weak is the clumsily titled \"GoodBye Goldfish, Hi Piranha\", a song that dramatically builds only to crescendo with the brief, impotent lyric: \"I took advantage of your honor/ In the cellophane/ What looks like one thing/ You bought cocaine but got flour\". This is part of the problem with Pelo; the bad stuff is ultimately more memorable than the good. Say what you will about the Aluminum Group; they certainly are earnest. Whether or not they're misguided is irrelevant. Just as there's no sense in arguing religion or politics at the dinner table, one gets the sense that any persuasions attempting to get the Aluminum Group to see the error of their ways would be at least equally futile. Their resolve even makes me doubt myself. Perhaps rock will wane and disappear, leaving odd niche bands like the Aluminum Group vindicated. Vindicated, but very, very alone. "}