{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14949/homepage_large.4d9de0de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Interference","title":"Interference","text":" No Wave's flameout seemed to happen by design. Flashing through late1970s New York, the movement came off as a nihilistic plot to first dismantle punk rock, then abandon it. The funny thing is, the perpetrators didn't exactly run off and hide. Before the dust had settled, many No Wavers were already reworking their ideas into new forms that actually lasted longer than the original spark. Some, like Glenn Branca and Rhys Chatham, morphed rock experiments into avantgarde minimalism, which in turn spawned the noiserock of Swans and Sonic Youth. Others, like James Chance and Pat Place of the Contortions, created discodamaged punkfunk that led to the strippeddown dance of ESG and Liquid Liquid. Though those two postNo Wave trends shared some participants, there was a vague line between them. To oversimplify, one side was rock, the other dance.It turns out that at least one band, Interference, straddled that divide. But their innovations were hidden, because their only recording a 1982 debut slated for release on Branca's Neutral label never came out. Now Social Registry has rescued it from the vaults (though Branca claims that this version is different than what the band gave Neutral). The six original songs on the first half of this 2xLP set sound like a missing link between Branca's pioneering symphonies and ESG's seminal funk.The former style was something in which Interference were clearly versed drummer David Linton and bassist Michael Brown both played in Chatham's ensemble the Din, while multiinstrumentalist Anne DeMarinis was in the first incarnation of Sonic Youth. Still, Interference must have been equally attentive to the downtown dancerock developing in the early 80s. The band's blend of chiming guitars, rattling rhythms, dark bass grooves, and cresting noise feels less like a stylistic hybrid than an organic swirl of bodymoving thought and headbobbing momentum.That comes across strongest on the two densest tracks \"Excerpt #1 (Version 2)\", which at times sounds like an extended instrumental take on Bush Tetras' downtown classic \"Too Many Creeps\", and \"Contempt\", a snaky grove that evokes the nervous energy of DNA or the Feelies, but whose insistent beat feels timeless. Things tip further to the avantrock side on closer \"Number Four\". Its frantic rush recalls the slamrock symphonics of Chatham's \"Drastic Classicism\" (a song Linton and Brown actually played on). But even that track feels remarkably fresh, like something you wouldn't be surprised to hear blasting from a Magik Markers or Talk Normal album.That timelessness makes the second half of Interference a bonus LP with six new remixes more than just tackedon filler. Linton has been involved in the New York avantelectronic scene for a while, and his choice of remixers is sharp. All of them rework a funkier version of \"Excerpt #1\" (the original of which Social Registry offers as a bonus digital download). I'm partial to the QPE \"#5 Dub\", which matches Brown's thick bass line to a detached hiphop lope, and Criterion's \"Interferix\", a marriage of hard beats and warpy echo. But all six remixes show the richness of Interference's music, which after nearly three decades of hidden fermentation sounds as vital as it must have to anyone who witnessed it back then. "}