{"label":" Angular / Captured Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14940/homepage_large.338e96c5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Wetdog","title":"Frauhaus","text":" The aughts sadly weren't a great decade for women in rock. In the 1990s, women from Riot Grrrl to PJ Harvey made joyously raw, aggressive, and polemical rock, now a muchmissed sound. That is what makes Wetdog a British allwoman trio whose sophomore effort celebrates their percussive, atonal foremothers like the Slits, the Raincoats, and LiLiPUT sound so fresh despite their obvious influences. After all, the girls at home with their videogame plastic Gibsons need Guitar Heroes, too.After their 22track 2008 debut, Wetdog return with the more concise Frauhaus. The new LP blows through its 14 songs in less than half an hour, building its tracks out of sinister, plucky bass rumblings, alternately bored and screechy vocals, and rhythms so geometric that it would be cliché to call them \"angular,\" were that not already the name of the band's British label. The album kicks off with first single \"Lower Leg\", which gets a lot of mileage out of wiry rhythms and an urgently pulsing bassline. Rhythms shift from a syrupy strut to a chaotic doubletime, and the strangely disjointed symmetry that holds the first track together acts as connective tissue for the rest of the collection. \"Snapper\" weaves its creepycarnival polka melody around spaghetti western rhythms, while \"Trehorne Beach Song\" adds a pretty garagepop shimmy into the mix, and \"Long Long Time to Go\" layers a menacing guitar throb and deadpan harmonies over a steady, militaristic march. There is a powerful yet playful chaos to the way the collection is organized, but that is part of its charm.One can't help wish, however, that some of the songs were given space to breathe, especially the muchtooshort \"Trehorne Beach Song\" and the ethereally harmonized \"Round Vox\". Rather than allowing their tensely con  structed, minimalist melodies to blossom into infectious hooks, often a sloppy verse and a brash chorus is all they can spare in a track's quick, twominute runtime.Were we swimming in a sea of likeminded releases, Frauhaus may seem merely competent a collection that leaves listeners wishing the trio weren't so slavish in their devotion to early80s postpunk and no wave, but one that gets the toughly innocent, acidic vibe right nonetheless. But it acts as a welcome torchbearer of smart, femaleled punk and, perhaps for its youngest listeners, a muchneeded history lesson. "}