{"label":" Kora","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14947/homepage_large.c6294044.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Stricken City","title":"Songs About People I Know","text":" Songs About People I Know, the glassy, slightly grimy Londonbased postpunk foursome Stricken City's debut, sits somewhere between an EP and LP. Featuring 24 minutes of reverby guitars and spluttery drums careening around singer/keyboardist Rebekah Raa's hookheavy character sketches, it's a fine record; despite its length, it's fleshed out and full of flourish. If anything, it's all over way too soon. If only they knew more people.There's something wonderfully ramshackle and even a little weird about the songs on Songs, from the creaky Victrola of opener \"Gifted\" (apparently recorded in a London bus) to the unspooling C86 haze that covers the rest. Bleary guitars, tricky rhythms, and Raa's ascendant vocal melodies seem engaged in a tug of war, and even the odd ballad feels, well, odd when cast in their able amble. The best tunes here aren't too fitful to be unruly or even undancable, yet their muddled construction always seems to threaten a topple. It's Raa who holds it all together, her voice dipping and soaring over these tunes, a little like a looser Sue Tompkins from Life Without Buildings. Even with an oddball backdrop, an unlikely vocal melody, over an unruly pile of guitars, Raa finds a way to captivate, and without much apparent effort.The intimate portraits promised in the title don't quite materialize most songs are about people you know, y'know but the legit pangs of longing in Raa's voice lead one to believe she entered the booth for every tune with somebody specific in mind, even when the sentiments feel a little general. The accordionled \"Sometimes I Love You\" leans that way sometimes she hates you, too but, on the strength of its unique arrangement and Raa's resigned vocal, you'll barely notice. Stark closer \"Terrible Things\" smacks of PJ Harvey's bleak White Chalk, and Raa, much like Polly Jean Harvey, conveys an awful lot even when she doesn't seem to be saying much. There's just so much ground covered here that throwing something else at them, like a more complicated lyric, might prove their tipping point. As it stands, though, Songs is a series of small successes in slightly askew songcraft. "}