{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14959/homepage_large.4a7ac6a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Casual Victim Pile","text":" Casual Victim Pile is a compilation assembled by Matador Records coleader Gerard Cosloy highlighting his favorite Austinarea bands of the past few years. Cosloy had no designs on this being the definitive document of the Austin music scene, and he'll eagerly cop to that. The ways and means might have changed, but the impulses that inspired Cosloy to throw together Casual Victim Pile are the same impulses behind Bands That Could Be God, a compilation of Bostonarea bands he coreleased in 1984: an unabashed love of music, and an interest in getting that music heard.If this compilation is making any sort of definitive statement, it's Cosloy's influence on the Amerindie underground over the past 20plus years. Aside from a couple of tracks (most notably the Distant Seconds' \"Akron Bureau\", a decent enough tune that is nevertheless a little too fond of Spoon), most of Pile sounds like music that could've been found on a Homestead Records compilation circa 1987. Even the compilation's anagramatic title its built around Austin's nickname, \"live music capital\" has a certain punkjustdied terseness and clarity to it. Yet the music on Pile doesn't sound stodgy or dated; it's instead a testament to the continued creative viability of that nebulous yet unmistakable classic indie rock sound. As Cosloy notes in the AV Club interview linked above, there's plenty of aesthetic wiggle room between bands on this album. But while the Wipersesque tremors of Dikes of Holland's \"Little City Girl\" doesn't share much in common sonically with the pure hardcore of the Teeners' \"Nazis on Film\", the bassy reverb of the Young's \"Blister\", or charming, shambling twerpiness of Harlem's \"Beautiful and Very Smart\", their engines are all fueled by a similar fire.The quality of Pile rarely wavers, though fronttoback listeners will encounter brief stretches of catchy straightforward punk or punklike tunes that might encourage some skipping. Those with a hankering for some cavernous swampy postpunk can cue up ELVIS' \"Mommy's Little Soldiers\" or the appropriately titled \"Spirits Roam\" by Woven Bones. With \"The Engineer\", Tre Orsi offers something akin to a kinder, gentler Unwound, while Wild America rocks out in a feelingMinnesota (by way of Buffalo Tom) fashion. There are plenty of guitarrock wrinkles to be found all over this comp, but if you're looking for the best Pile has to offer, the album graciously gives listeners that right at the start. Follow That Bird!'s \"The Ghosts That Wake You\" is a propulsive and wiry tune that's agile enough to shift gears gracefully and has its shows of musical force ably abetted by Lauren Green's unfettered belting. It makes the sort of first impression that quickly leads to a second and third one, and hopefully a quick web search to purchase some of the group's offerings. That said, if you simply stop with this leadoff track without exploring Casual Victim Pile further, you're doing yourself, and this compilation, a grave disservice. "}