{"label":" Rush Hour","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14954/homepage_large.c2f80712.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Anthony \"Shake\" Shakir","title":"Frictionalism 1994-2009","text":" Anthony \"Shake\" Shakir is a longtime techno producer from Detroit. His first track, \"Sequence 10\", was featured on Virgin's seminal Techno: The New Dance Sound of Detroit in 1988. You can draw short, uninterrupted lines between Shakir and any of the first (Juan Atkins, Kevin Saunderson, Derrick May) or secondwave (Underground Resistance, Carl Craig) Detroit techno acts. Yet his hometown, chosen genre, and general demeanor much of Shakir's work has come out on his own Frictional label; he refused to promote his work in European markets, although they embraced many of his contemporaries have boxed Shakir into obscurity. Frictionalism 19942009, a 3xCD, 35track retrospective on Rush Hour Recordings (an abbreviated, 4x12\" vinyl set of the same name appeared late last year), places many of Shakir's records on CD for the first time and sheds light on one of Detroit techno's great, unclaimed dance artists.At his best, Shakir is a hypnotic producer, spools of psychedelic noise whipping off his tightly coiled beats. A noted pop fan he's notoriously unafraid of playing pop music in his DJ sets, and he once sampled the B52's the tracks on Frictionalism rarely betray their samples, yet they also avoid slipping into noise or ambience. Tracks could function on the floor, but they don't always feel as if they were constructed for that purpose. This is fitting. In interviews Shakir comes off as an introspective ball of contradictions; it is difficult to imagine him attending many club nights. Within a group of musicians already notoriously peeved about a lack of respect, Shakir seems particularly upset, referring to himself as the \"invisible man of techno.\" But Shakir is also selfdeprecating and aware: He frequently referred to himself as the janitor of Juan Atkins' Metroplex Records; he now admits that much of his invisibility is his own doing.Frictionalism is spry and elegant throughout, notable from a scene whose progenitors were both establishing a new genre and learning to use their instruments. \"Stereotype\"'s slowly gathering strings and \"Arise\"'s alien synthesizers sound deluxe and deeply musical. \"Roaming\" contains a bobbing jazz bassline; \"Simpatico\" is a keyboardhelmed house jam that is modest and selfcontained. Frictionalism spreads out over three and a half hours but it contains few anthems and fewer indulgences, Shakir preferring instead to provide to just lay in the grooves of his regenerating hop.Shakir is known for incorporating hiphop into his productions, and while the vast majority of Frictionalism exists on the techno axis, it'd be easy to see J Dilla latch onto the symphonic jazz of \"Detroit State of Mind\" or Madlib onto the smoky Eastern funk of the spectacularly titled \"Things Come and Go\". Influence is a strange concept with an artist like Shakir, though. He produced formative work during a formative period, but his records have long been out of print, and ascribing any real guidance to his work requires a lot of faith in the record collections of his offspring. Did Kieran Hebden ever run across the Four Tety \"Tracks for My Father\" 12\"? Does it matter if he didn't?Shakir is at a crossroads. Earlier this decade he was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis; he attributed a yearslong recording layoff to purchasing the wrong recording software for his laptop. But last year's Levitate Venice EP was received with reverence and acclaim; Frictionalism makes his work available in a way it has never been (Shakir chose Rush Hour specifically for their European distribution capabilities). Shakir fondly compares techno producers with jazz musicians for their ability to extend their creative lives. Frictionalism gives him the opportunity to continue in front of an audience, but it also exposes an already rewarding creative life that deserves more company. "}