{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14961/homepage_large.e97b9cdc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Wolf People","title":"Tidings","text":" London's Wolf People come from a long line of British bluesrock. Though certainly drawing from the roots music of the Southern U.S., they are equally entrenched in meadsoaked English folk, classic rock, and psychedelia. For each woolly bit of boogie, there's a supporting cast of trippy flute accents, backwards guitars, and ramshackle nods to mod rock and paisleypatterned freakouts. All of which work together to produce a number of catchy stompers on the band's first full length, Tidings.But as much as Tidings rides high on it's own brand of sweaty jukejoint appeal, its finest moments are a grab bag of genre detours. \"Black Water\", a crunchy slab of drugrock steeped in mystic imagery (it sounds only a little bit like a Spinal Tap song), works more like a Renaissance Faire theme than a muscular blues number. \"Cotton Strands\" is a Lovestyled bloomer bursting with sitars and flutes, yet it still manages to retain the feeling of a creepy backwoods séance. \"Untitled\" acts like the perfect introduction to both Nuggets and LSD, and late album cut \"Empty Heart\" boasts a strut that has T. Rex stank all over it. And there's plenty of brawniness to go around, too, like the single \"October Fires\", which is a wild, noodly groover, detailing some sort of sacrifice ritual over a sweaty honkytonk rhythm, harmonica, and punchy guitar details.Thing is, Tidings isn't the tight rock record it appears to be. Almost half of the songs are tagged as interludes, most of which are field recordings or outtakes of aimless strumming, strange whirrings, and drunken ramblings. Frontman Jack Sharp made these recordings between 2005 and 2007 in Bedford, England, before the current iteration of Wolf People. So in a sense Tidings serves as more of an oddsandends collection than an album proper. Though occasionally a particularly strange piece of noise or a tasty riff will manage to prick up your ears during these sections, they seriously hamper the movement of the record. While the patchwork construction does unintentionally remind you of a live set (one that's obviously just lousy with tech problems), skipping through the dodgy oneoffs and tepid noise detours will leave you with only a handful of tracks worth holding on to.Most of the proper tunes succeed because they roll along so eagerly, so it's hard to imagine why Wolf People would sap the album of all its momentum with these little speed bumps. If these experiments weren't so dull and scatterbrained, they'd at least serve as a sort of counterweight to the rockers, making the good stuff really pop. But the fullband cuts don't need a push. Ditch the interludes and you have yourself a hot, swampy EP full of terrific little boogieminded gems. "}