{"label":" Jade Tree","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1380/homepage_large.c59a7cb5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Weber","artist":"Cex","title":"Maryland Mansions","text":" At a Foetus show a few years ago, my friends and I became trapped in a conversation with an overeager, drunken fan. This scrawny kid was stumbling around the place by himself, preaching to the choir about the dark genius of Foetus mastermind Jim Thirlwell. He went on about how Thirlwell's piercing, syncopated beats, primitive tape loops and misanthropic persona laid the foundation for industrial music and were the spare parts Trent Reznor used to build his pretty hate machine. While listening to Maryland Mansions (the title is a nod to both a certain NIN protege and Kidwell's home state), I realized that this wideeyed fanboy could have been Rjyan Kidwell, aka Cex. Okay, so it probably wasn't him, but the slow, pounding rhythm and paranoid rant on Maryland Mansions' \"Kill Me\" sounds as if it could be either a remix of a mid80s Foetus epic or a Nine Inch Nails outtake. On this track, Kidwell has Thirlwell's brutal whiteboy snarl down pat, spitting: \"I want you to find me, but I don't want you to touch me/ It seems so disgusting to be handled like a doll.\" Nothing throughout Cex's prolific recording career hinted at the bleak, nihilistic tone of the eighttrack, 25minute Maryland Mansions, a selfassured and, yes, mature work from a guy who sounds as if he's sick of being dismissed as a snotty kid with musical ADD. Cex released Role Model at the age of 19, and it promptly established him as a force in the IDM world even as he simultaneously railed against that sound's constraints and sneered at its scenesters. Cex then tweaked the electropop idiom with 2001's Oops, I Did It Again!, and he paid tribute to oldschool hiphop with Tall, Dark & Handcuffed the following year. As a result, critics and fans would be forgiven for not knowing what to make of this skinny, charismatic manchild given to getting naked on stage. I always pegged him somewhere between Kid606 and Paul Barman a mix of electrofreak and hyperaware mugging MC.Maryland Mansions offers an unnerving picture of Kidwell as a friendless loner one who's most comfortable in his bedroom studio with his headphones blocking out the world. On \"My Head\", over a slow beat and hypnotic strings, he comes to grips with the fact that the only thing that can save him from a life of stifling banality is music. But because he's not confident in his talents, it's a confession that gives him little comfort and only serves to reveal his insecurity and hopefulness. By the end of the song, he makes it clear that he wants to save himself through music and, in the process, save music itself. Lofty goals from a guy who two years ago was writing tracks like \"Destination: Sexy\". And what if he wasn't a musician? What would Rjyan Kidwell do if he allowed himself to be sucked into the suffocating straight life? Cex answers that question on \"The Strong Suit\", a straightup hiphop track on which he imagines himself eking out a living as a traveling salesman: Call him MC Willie Loman. \"The Strong Suit\" is both funny and brooding, and its his headspinning lyrics would make Rakim smile. Especially rewarding is the bit where Cex fantasizes about breaking out of the ninetofive grind by \"leaving my cells in your sisters and daughters/ Trying to escape, disguised as my own kid.\" That kind of playful wordsmithery also enlivens \"Stillnaut Rjyan\", on which Cex applies some overthetop N.E.R.D.style production elements to screeching beats and a rapidfire callandresponse chorus. The track is a weird, intergalactic fantasy about an extraterrestrial mission gone awry, like Kool Keith covering \"Space Oddity\". So perhaps it's about time that we stop calling Cex a wunderkind: He may be barely 25 but with the introspective yet exuberant Maryland Mansions, he's officially grown up, establishing himself as a performer to be taken yikes! seriously. "}