{"label":" Virgin / Realworld","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14971/homepage_large.e97ad82f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Peter Gabriel","title":"Scratch My Back","text":" What's he doing here? That was the first question that came to mind when a cover of Vampire Weekend's \"Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa\" showed up on blogs in 2008, featuring Peter Gabriel's familiar voice singing lead over Hot Chip's backing: \"Feels so unnatural/ Peter Gabriel too,\" goes the oftquoted refrain, to which Gabriel added, \"And it feels so unnatural/ To sing your own name.\"It was surprising because Gabriel seemed like the kind of artist who would remain blissfully ignorant of the changes that have befallen the music business in the years since he released his last album, Up, in 2002. Somewhere between the time of the smash So in 1986 and the launch of the Human Rights Now! tour in 1988, Gabriel seemed to transcend the pop machine. He'd undertake offbeat projects (scoring films like The Last Temptation of Christ, making an early stab at interactive art with the EVE CDROM), release an album or two when he felt like it, mount the occasional tour, and appear on the odd film or TV soundtrack. But with his graying hair, air of intelligent dignity, and avoidance of celebrity trappings, he was the rare pop star who didn't seem to mind losing relevance or growing old. The last place you expected this guy to show up was singing lead on a blogbait Vampire Weekend cover.If nothing else, that Hot Chip cameo mitigated the shock that otherwise came with news that Gabriel's next fulllength, Scratch My Back, would be a covers record, featuring songs by Arcade Fire, Bon Iver, Radiohead, and the Magnetic Fields, along with work by Gabriel contemporaries like David Bowie, Lou Reed, and Paul Simon. From the outset, it sounded like an idea dreamed up by a management team, a way to introduce Gabriel to the coveted New Generation of Listeners. But a recent interview on The Quietus, where Gabriel ran down the song selections and explained how he was introduced to each, revealed the project's organic roots.The Scratch My Back songs are either lushly orchestrated by the Durutti Column's John Metcalfe or feature just solo piano; all are arranged in a sweeping cinematic style that steers clear of the Hot Chip collab's playfulness and humor. There's a fleeting \"Hey, neat\" factor in hearing Gabriel use his legendary \"I'm bathing in red rain\" / \"I'm shooting into the light\" upper register on lyrics by Justin Vernon and Elbow's Guy Garvey. And there's no question that the years have been kind to Gabriel's vocal instrument: he sounds ready to launch into a fullthroated chorus of \"San Jacinto\" at any moment. But once the initial novelty wears off, we're left with some ponderous, dull, and ultimately pointless versions of songs that sound much better elsewhere.Every song on Scratch My Back, regardless of its original tone or meaning, is flattened out and turned into this one melodramatic and depressing thing, often with Gabriel whispering half the words to go with the ultraslow tempos. This uniformity of mood highlights the most puzzling aspect of the record: Gabriel's clunky phrasing. Throughout, he seems to be singing words without necessarily understanding what they mean. If you close your eyes you can almost see him reading them off paper. \"You know me, I like to dream a lot/ Of what there is and what there's not,\" he sings in Lou Reed's \"The Power of the Heart\". Heard with Gabriel's stiff delivery, the humble declaration is entirely unconvincing. His take on David Bowie's \"Heroes\", glacially slow and building to a single climax, affirms, like many failed takes before it, that the original is about 70% brilliant record and 30% brilliant song. On Paul Simon's \"The Boy in the Bubble\", the New York Knicks fan's line about a \"turnaround jump shot\" sounds exceedingly silly inside of a heavy, lifeordeath funeral ballad.All of which is to say that this album sounds earnest, professional, and ultimately very awkward. When the orchestra reaches yet another worldshattering crescendo on Arcade Fire's \"My Body Is a Cage\" (one more fine record that sounds melodically feeble in this setting), things almost start to drift into the campy territory of William Shatner's The Transformed Man. This album is called Scratch Your Back because all of the songwriters here will eventually return the favor and cover a song of Gabriel's, to be collected on a sequel. Here's hoping they have better luck. As for this collection, Feels So Unnatural wouldn't have been a bad title, either. "}