{"label":" American","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14979/homepage_large.2d8b394e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Johnny Cash","title":"American Recordings VI: Ain't No Grave","text":" Johnny Cash recorded most of the tracks for the fifth and sixth installments of his American Recordings series between his wife June Carter Cash's death in May 2003 and his own just four months later. He was in poor health, and the effects of ShyDrager syndrome prevented him from working most days. But when he felt up to it, he recorded; when he felt too weak, he wished he were recording. The ablebodied A Hundred Highways, released in 2006, was the first product of all that working and wishing, and Ain't No Grave is now the second. It doesn't tell us anything we didn't already know about Cash in his final months, nor does it sound like an attempt to rebrand an icon or reshape a legacy. Instead, it plays like a desperate means of keeping Cash alive just a little longer. As such, it may say more about producer Rick Rubin, who has guided this series for 16 years, than it does about Cash himself.Rubin comes across as deeply sentimental and fashions Ain't No Grave rumored to be the final installment in the series as a tearjerker. Listen as Cash ponders the delicate seam separating life from death on his own arrangement of \"I Corinthians 15:55\". Listen as he reminisces sweetly about life and love on Kris Kristofferson's \"For the Good Times\". Listen as he realizes he has a long past and little future on Tom Paxton's \"Can't Help But Wonder Where I'm Bound\". It can be manipulative and obvious: Just the title of \"I Don't Hurt Anymore\" looms ominously on the tracklist. Cash's weak but determined performance aside, it's meant as a beyondthegrave pronouncement, a consolation from the afterlife. The song itself was never about heaven. It's about numbness as a salve for heartache, so in this context it feels like a great tune that cannot carry such a heavy conceptual burden. Between that and all the other tracks about mortality, Ain't No Grave has the feel of a séance morose and possibly even staged.And yet, we want to believe. We want Cash to go out on top, with a strong batch of songs created in the interval between hardship and grace. Even so, it's hard not to question some of the choices made in assembling and arranging these new songs. The album begins with its two clumsiest tracks: Cash's vocal is strong on the title track, weaker on Sheryl Crow's \"Redemption Day\", and here's where Rubin shows his influence over the project. He overloads both with gothcountry instrumentation meant to recall \"The Man Comes Around\" and \"God's Gonna Cut You Down\", but the nailincoffin percussion, the eerie organ, and the blues guitar playing through an old radio all sound like clichés by now. The Old Testament ambience has lost its impact, contrasting sharply with the handsoff approach that defined the first and still best American Recordings album.When Rubin leaves the fire and brimstone behind, Ain't No Grave picks up considerably, revealing itself as a personal rather than preacherly album. Even in those final days, when his spirit was strong but his voice weak, Cash remained a charismatic and commanding singer, with an easy gravity and a friendly, grandfatherly presence. He draws out the long syllables and sustained vowels of Bob Nolan's \"Cool Water\" gracefully and even joyfully, and sounds particularly invigorated on Joe \"Red\" Hayes and Jack Rhodes' \"A Satisfied Mind\" (given the relative robustness of his voice, the track actually seems like it's from a different session altogether). And of course, it wouldn't be a final American Recordings album without a weepy sendoff. No one, not even Cash, could pull off Ed McCurdy's \"Last Night I Had the Strangest Dream\" without sounding sappy, and Queen Lili'uokalani's \"Aloha Oe\" is the studiously unsentimental sentimental sendoff we all knew was coming. Ain't No Grave isn't really Cash's farewell as much as it is Rubin's memorial mixtape. "}