{"label":" Jade Tree","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1381/homepage_large.ff30022e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Cex","title":"Know Doubt EP","text":" I don't think Rjyan Kidwell (aka Cex) is weird per se, just caught at an awkward moment, on every record. Think of that video circulating around the Internet with the painfully awkward prepubescent kid reenacting Star Wars lightsaber duels. Kidwell's first albums, and concerts, were chockfull of teenage panache, braggadocio, and shock value a combination that culminated on 2001's vitriolic yet playful Oops, I Did It Again! Then bam, our cocksure Stars Wars kid gets a sudden bout of selfawareness as Kidwell tears out his playful IDM bells and whistles on 2003's misanthropic Maryland Mansions, replacing them with unapologetic electro scrapes, fractured beats and bitter cowls. For such a conscientious and oftentimes selfdeprecating album, it established Kidwell as a \"grownup\" artist, and made haters feel pretty rotten for snickering at our Star War kid's previous works. No wonder Kidwell has little left to say on Know Doubt, a recording about as polemic and intricate as a fart in church. Maybe melody isn't supposed to be the focus of this record, but apparently neither is rhythm, as Know Doubt kicks off with a potpourri of bleak, uninteresting sound effects on \"Every Extreme\" and closes similarly with \"S Opposite\", an unfledged take on M83. Also surprising, in that predictably unpredictable Cex way, is Kidwell's vocal dissociation from his songs, a stark contrast to narcissistic Maryland Mansion numbers like \"Kill Me\" and \"My Head\". Whether through distortion effects or equivocal lyrics, ambiguity surrounds Kidwell's voice. Even on \"Contains It\" the EP's catchiest and most direct track overdubbed vocals and busy instrumentation dissemble Kidwell's desperate \"help me\" plea. \"State Secretly\" and \"Every Song Ever\" utilize the vocals as instruments, with the former centered around looping, paranoid phrases (\"They're gonna find out!/ You're gonna have to leave!\") while the latter dices the lyrics into spasmodic segments unintelligibly bled into one another. This relatively boring offering is salvaged, however, by Kidwell's proficiency behind the boards. While Cex the producer may hardly be as enticing as Cex the performer, Know Doubt would implode on selfimportance and paucity if not for the occasional redemptive beat or synth swell. For a record consisting of so many discordant components, it's slapped together rather nicely. Maybe our freewheelin' Cex has worn out his outlandish, dicksout shtick, but no amount of selfimmolating records can erase the fact that Kidwell twists and turns knobs with the best of 'em. Hopefully what we're seeing here is a drawnout but worthwhile reinvention of the Cex persona, and not a feckless search for a fabled, deeper Cex that's not there. "}