{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/14982/homepage_large.33b55902.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Cave In","title":"Planets of Old","text":" I doubt Kurt Warner is a Cave In fan (maybe he's more of an Underoath guy), but he should at least appreciate the similarities between their career arcs: While spending most of 2009 fending off retirement rumors, fans of each could look back on a decadeplus defined by quiet dependability and a midcareer identity crisis. Cave In burst out of Boston's metalcore scene by shading their heaving, chopheavy sound with enough prog and indie influences to make them safe for Radiohead fans. And they still do. But in 2003, they were briefly on majorlabel RCA and competing with Foo Fighters and AFI for airtime on MTV2. It's about as anachronistic as Warner in a New York Giants jersey, and about as fondly remembered.2005's Perfect Pitch Black followed, with little else other than talk of Cave In's indefinite hiatus. When they did return last year with the Planets of Old 12\" it seemed more of an assurance that they're still around than proof of their artistic vitality. It's less of an EP, damn near singlelength, and each of its four tracks is nicely compartmentalized if not terribly diverse. And now it's being released on CD, along with a live DVD of a performance last year at Boston's Great Scott.Opener \"Cayman Tongue\", by a large measure the slowest Planets track, finds Stephen Brodsky and Adam McGrath careening around a time signature damn near impossible to keep track of, yet a dominating lowend provides a visceral punch. Halfway through its sixplus minutes, they submerge into a miasma of feedback punctuated by fullband interruptions. It's initially startling, but they sort of overplay their hand this section of \"Cayman Tongue\" is longer than any of the tracks that follow and the ultramodern production smooths out most of its dynamic edge.The remainder of Planets of Old plays out like a series of windsprints. The first, \"Retina Sees Rewind\", sticks a Thin Lizzy riff into an electrical socket and showcases Brodsky's nasal singing, which sounds sort of like a sedate Geddy Lee. It's the hookiest of the four, especially since doublekickdrum scream machine \"The Red Trail\" is aerodynamic to the point that hooks would be considered a luxury. The fourth and final piece of Planets of Old, \"Air Escapes\", is a compact hearkening back to Antenna's more Clear Channelflavored stylings, loud and supercompressed but ultimately letting Brodsky's justtunefulenough melodics punch through.So in a span of time slightly equal to that of a latterday Sunn O))) track, Cave In make their case for... well, it remains to be seen whether it's brand reinvigoration or a desire to shed light on a band that was probably \"hipster metal\" before anyone knew what that really meant. But Planets of Old might be too little, too late considering how narrow its range is the type of listener that might've made, say, Jupiter their sole metal purchase of the year has far more access to extremes either in volume or melody or texture. And while Planets of Old doesn't demand a whole lot of the listener, Cave In were considered great in large part because albums like Jupiter did.   "}