{"label":" Arcade Sound","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/14987/homepage_large.73b9d3c4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Garrett","artist":"Memoryhouse","title":"The Years EP","text":" You'd be forgiven for thinking that Memoryhouse are glofi alsorans before even hearing a note the Guelph, Ontariobased duo is indeed another nostalgic bedroom project. Yet Memoryhouse are so chill on their debut EP they're practically glacial. In contrast to the kinetic early single \"Radium Girls\", the songs on The Years offer a less festive take on the past than many of their sand and surfloving contemporaries.The relatively somber approach works to The Years' benefit, lending it a more classic, polished feel than other sampleindebted releases. Due to their limited recording budget and everpresent drum machine, the band may technically fit the definition of lofi; however, Evan Abeele and Denise Nouvion's ethereal dreampop hints at loftier ambitions. At times, The Years plays like a shoegazer record minus the feedback, leaving just the reverbed loops and frostbitten vocals behind.Opener \"Sleep Patterns\" is one such somnambulant gem its sputtering beat, never quite rousing, always purposely lags two steps behind. Further underscoring the heavylidded, dreamlike state is Nouvion's eerily affectless timbre, caught somewhere between a soft coo and spoken word. The vocals may not be in tune, though they do seem appropriate in their disconnect from the melody, suggesting a kind of suspended animation. \"To the Lighthouse\", The Years' standout final track, continues the EP's lethargic and oceanic themes but adds an eversoslight twang to its gentle ebb. Nouvion, meanwhile, flattens her tone even further, as she dispassionately describes the sensation of drowning. It's a testament to her calm delivery that she manages to make lungs filling with water sound not only serene but downright seductive.Belying its title, The Years almost sounds cut short: four tracks in just over 12 minutes, with one song, \"The Waves\", acting as little more than an extended segue. Yet the songs fit together seamlessly, and the fact that a fulllength is planned for May suggests that The Years' brevity is by design, not due to any shortage of material. Most importantly, the EP clearly sets Abeele and Nouvion apart from their more amateur peers. The Years may be awash in nostalgia, but far from inviting unfavorable comparisons, it mostly confirms that the past was indeed as good as you remember. "}