{"label":" Watergate","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/14990/homepage_large.d6b12e8d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Ellen Allien","title":"Watergate 05","text":" Ellen Allien is a pillar of the Berlin electronic music scene. Since she dropped her Boogybytes mix and Sool in 2008, however, she's acted more as a scene curator than an artist, counting just a remix and a single as official releases and instead focusing her energy on BPitch Control's expanding roster and her own fashion label. Watergate 05, a mix for Berlin's famed Watergate club (where Allien holds a DJ residency), not only marks Allien's first fulllength release since 2008, it is her latest contribution to a highprofile mix series, following both BPitch's own Boogybytes and her 2007 mix for London's Fabric club.Watergate 05 is the second mix Allien has provided from Watergate her 2009 podcast for Resident Advisor was recorded live at the club. Working there seems to have loosened up Allien a bit, as both Watergate and her RA mix are friendlier and jammier than previous deck work. Where Boogybytes felt tightly wound, Watergate is almost schizophrenic, featuring work from looser producers like Matias Aguayo, Luciano, and Röyksopp.Here Allien allows her selections to develop Watergate offers just 16 tracks during its hour runtime. This leads to few mixing revelations, placing the focus squarely on Allien's choices. After a hohum opening featuring some meticulous but boilerplate techno from John Tejada and DJ Yellow, Niconé & Sascha Breamer's \"Nur Ma Kurz (Philip Bader Remix)\" sets the tone: humid, busy percussion set against earworm vocal samples. It's something Allien returns to with Aguayo's vocal mix of \"Bo Jack\", Allien's own remix of Uffie's \"Pop the Glock\", and AGF/Delay's outstanding Connection (\"Heartthrob Remix)\". Finishing the set with Brigitte Fontaine & Khan's \"Fine Mouche (Original Tango Paris Version)\", a wry French piano ballad, is a welcome concession, as it's probably not the type of track you can close a proper live set with.Watergate's main fault is that it's too backloaded: The Uffie and AGF/Delay tracks both appear in the final minutes, as does nsi.'s disquieting remix of Margarat Dygas' \"Hidden Form View\". The mix hinges on longtime Allien pal Apparat's remix of Röyksopp's \"This Must Be It\", which features the Knife's Karin Dreijer Andersson. The remix takes the original's glassy Europop and replaces it with a roiling electro loop, massive enough that it overshadows the mix's excellent backend.At this point it seems unlikely that Allien is going to submit a truly defining mix; she seems content to use these highprofile gigs to tweak her formula while continuing to build the Berlin scene (as always, several of Allien's friends and collaborators feature here). Watergate 05 can frustrate, but ultimately Allien's ability to differentiate her mixes while retaining her voice makes Watergate a worthwhile addition to her catalog. "}