{"label":" Slumberland","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15001/homepage_large.04b66661.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Brilliant Colors","title":"Introducing","text":" Slumberland Records has maintained a recognizable aesthetic for most of its 20 years in existence. From the earliest Velocity Girl singles to last year's Pains of Being Pure at Heart fulllength, its records share an affinity for washes of reverb, bubblegum melodies, and shoestringbudget production. Even their most recent records have an aged patina to them, as if every album they were ever going to release was recorded in the late 1980s.The debut by Bay Area allwoman trio Brilliant Colors could, therefore, not have found a more appropriate home. Its 10 tracks zoom by in barely more than 20 minutes of urgent, fuzzy guitars, muffled vocals, jangly melodies, and burning, vital percussion. The band has boiled their influences down to their most essential ingredients a C86 jangle, shouty, atonal nowave singing, a shoegaze saturation of echoing guitars. The LP strikes a surprising balance between fauxnaïveté and knowing grit, punk toughness and twee tenderness, vintage sounds and vibrant novelty.The songs' brief runtimes are Brilliant Colors' biggest strength and their most unfortunate weakness. There is a fundamental vibrancy to a track that blasts by in less than two minutes. Nothing is superfluous; everything sounds fresh and crucial. And Brilliant Colors' brevity is the source of, if not their wit, then at least their terse, maddeningly obtuse yet strangely specific lyricism. But alternately, it is difficult to develop an emotional attachment to a song that is over before you know it began. And it becomes difficult to make a distinction between many of the songs, because they are never really given a chance to blossom into memorable hooks or to rev up to distinct speeds. (One exception is \"Absolutely Anything\", a punksockhop interpolation of Nena's \"99 Luftballons\".) This makes for the strange problem of mostly indistinguishable songs that, ironically, combine to form a memorable overall albumlistening experience.Introducing, therefore, does exactly what its name implies: announces the arrival of a new noisepop talent without giving too much away. It's a scrappy record that relishes contradictions, layering gentle vocal melodies over gritty industrial distortion and charging eagerly ever forward toward the next overtoosoon track. It is an alluring collection that hints at greatness but halts at achieving it, instead teasing listeners for its sequel. Introducing may not be the indepth introduction that we might want, but it is a suitable prologue for a band that has taken that old vaudevillian advice to heart: always leave 'em wanting more. "}