{"label":" Soundway","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15017/homepage_large.608908e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nigeria Afrobeat Special: The New Explosive Sound in 1970s Nigeria","text":" Of course, hardcore Afrobeat collectors will tell you, the genre was more than just Fela Kuti I mean, he was very important, nobody's going to deny that, but he was only part of an evolving tradition, only part of a lively scene. Soundway's Nigeria Special series has found some remarkable stuff in the crates, mostly from what was happening elsewhere in Nigerian music in the 1970s; this fifth volume turns its attention to Afrobeat proper, and that means grappling directly with Fela's legacy.Nigeria Afrobeat Special kicks off with an actual Fela Ransome Kuti & His Africa 70 recording: The single version of \"Who're You\", from 1971. It's an extraordinary record as promised, it's a harder, brasher take than the more familiar one from Fela's London Scene, a crazily taut, rubbery rhythm whose lyric is Fela snapping back against oldtimers who didn't get his new thing. It's also the best thing on Afrobeat Special by a significant margin tight, cleverly constructed, and rhythmically onpoint in the way that not much else here is.That's fine if you're a Felaphile: One way to understand the impact of a major pop artist is to listen to the people who ripped them off, and figure out which parts of their work caught on with their peers. (The recent Black Man's Cry: The Inspiration of Fela Kuti compilation of international Fela covers and impersonations is enthusiastically recommended to anyone who thinks they might enjoy hearing three consecutive steel band covers of the same Fela tune.) Nigeria Afrobeat Special focuses on obscurities rather than hits; apparently, even thirdrate Nigerian bands' drummers in those days were pretty great. The slowly bubbling instrumental \"Gbomojo\", by Segun Bucknor's Revolution, is like a Silly Putty impression of Africa 70, but it's not bad in its own right. Eric Showboy Akaeze & His Royal Erico's \"We Dey Find Money\" suggests that he'd figured out that Afrobeat songs were supposed to be long and include some horn parts and keyboard solos, but that he hadn't picked up on how to structure one so that it stayed interesting for ten minutes, or worked out how to keep his band playing at a consistent tempo.A lot of the artists here were dance bands first and foremost calypso, highlife, whatever moved the crowd and in the early 70s, Nigerian clubgoers wanted to hear Afrobeat. Saxon Lee & the Shadows International, whose 1973 \"Mind Your Business\" is the secondcatchiest tune here, were a longrunning act who glommed onto Fela's grooves the way American funk groups shifted into disco a few years later. There are touches of American funk here, too: The hopandstomp intro of Anansa Professionals' \"Enwan\" could be a Charles Wright & the Watts 103rd St. Rhythm riff.In some ways, Fela is to Afrobeat what Bob Marley is to reggae: The outsize figurehead who frustrates serious fans by being the genre's alpha and omega to musical tourists, the father of an ongoing bloodline and franchise. There was more to 70s Nigerian pop than Afrobeat the earlier volumes of Nigeria Special have made that clear. But all the evidence from this reissue, as with others in the last decade or so, is that Fela and his immediate circle really did have a lock on the best of the form he invented. "}