{"label":" Tiger Style","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1385/homepage_large.7aa1f63a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Shannon","artist":"James Chance","title":"Irresistible Impulse","text":" Between the late 70s and early 80s, there was a lot of noisy music being produced, but in New York there were some determinedly antagonistic inventors. The equation, as it's presented, is that punk rockers only knew three chords, while these New Yorkers, who became known as part of the nihilistically monikered no wave genre, didn't know any. The five or six years during which this approach thrived were remarkable, and the sense of community and frustration that permeates the music is beautifully singular. This was a group of people who came to success in an assbackward way, and in ideal cases, never compromised their artistic integrity.While many of the artists survived, a good percentage of their material did not; the credibility of the movement rested squarely on the shoulders of hipster paragons like Sonic Youth or the Atavistic imprint, which has released some choice no wave records in its time.Irresistible Impulse is a strange idea for a box set, but it is convenient. As of early 2003, there has been no reissue of the legendary No New York compilation from 1978; while the Enoproduced compendium has bled into the preservative fabric of the Internet, you can't buy this once hugely influential album at your local record store. Most of the artists on No New York have their own releases available, but the most oftcited, seminal release from this critically lauded era is blatantly ignored, probably for prohibitive or indeterminate licensing costs. With that limitation, Tiger Style decided to release everything it could license from James Chance's catalog, over four hours of music on four CDs filled with the violent, offkilter dance music he's legendary for (though none of the Chance contributions to No New York are included). Chance's band The Contortions were the most rhythmic group on No New York, yet removed from a myopic, tooacademic view of the scene placed against the backdrop of their contemporaries in Lounge Lizards and Kid Creole & The Coconuts there is certainly a visible context for this work that, judging from the liner notes, Tiger Style might want you to forget about. Still, the postdated posturing can't downplay Chance's significance: On Irresistible Impulse we can view his work for what it is, filled with sheer anger and contempt, qualities neither of the aforementioned groups could bring to bear, infused with a modicum of funk and soul. The first two discs are the recently outofprint, muchpraised Buy the Contortions LP and James White & The Blacks' Off White, with added live tracks from other previously released (though hardtofind) live albums. These records seethe with rancor, and call to be heard: From the first song on Buy the Contortions, \"You're Useless and There Are No Excuses\", to the more subtle snubs on Off White, revolving around race, monotony, and sex, the real surprise in this is how antagonistic Chance is towards himself. By the time he adopts the persona of James White, he's made perhaps one of the most painfully selfaware gestures in modern rock and roll, on par with Lou Reed's \"I Wanna Be Black\" from 1978's Street Hassle. Chance looks at himself in the light of American music, seeing himself for what he is, rather than what he pretended to be. This is what made the no wave: It's not the winking, arty pretensions of the music, it's the revelation that Chance was simply trying to make soul music. He wants to be a thief, a crooner, a wailer, but he doesn't have the skills or pedigree. Following incredible live tracks from Soul Exorcism including a prickly cover of Michael Jackson's \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\" Irresistible Impulse begins a steep decline. Tiger Style is stretching the endeavor thin: While Buy the Contortions and Off White are unique, powerful albums, Chance is simply not substantial or diverse enough to merit over four hours of investigation. Even if he was, one would need more coaxing than the gushing liner notes can muster. The two remaining discs of the set take Chance releases from the early 80s, and signifying the fizzling out of his once provocative music. You almost want Chance to reach out of the stereo and push you away, or turn it off. Neither Sax Maniac nor The Flaming Demonics are particularly bad, they're just so goddamned unassuming. Singing about spending money, or covering a dull Ellington tune is fine; it reaches where Chance was heading, aping a simple love for Black American music, but the parts of Chance that were amateur, exciting and combative are gone. The attitude and angst that made him a cult figure are replaced by eightminute songs, heavy on process and pondering, not only studiosterile and mundane, but tediously drawnout. Still, there's something endearingly trashy about a song like \"I Danced with a Zombie\", even if it isn't as sharp or brilliant as \"Stained Sheets\".Buy the Contortions and Off White are simply fantastic albums, hugely significant in the progression of underground sound, but unfortunately they appear doomed to further obscurity thanks to their restricted availability on this overstuffed $40 dollar box. A fourdisc set doesn't make James Chance's art any less wonderful or valid, but it diminishes the resonance of his finest works; context is a huge part of what makes this music special, and given theirs, Chance and The Contortions don't need to stand up for more than two albums to ensure they're counted. "}