{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15013/homepage_large.ac1fd244.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Elevator Music, Vol. 1","text":" \"I hope dubstep continues to be hard to pin down, disobeys its manifesto, gets called stupid names, gatecrashes other scenes, and spikes the punch, elopes, and has lots of children\" one of about 10 eminently quotable things said by the producer Untold to the dancemusic site Resident Advisor this past October. The same month, he released Gonna Work Out Fine, an aggressive set of music that crystallized a lot of what I'd been hearing in singles coming out of dubstep and what you could call the postdubstep diaspora: an incorporation of housemusic rhythms, a more acidic sound palette, and some upbeat misanthropy in an otherwise superserious genre. Listening to his singles is like hearing dubstep getting a wedgie.Untold is one of two producers featured on both Sub:stance and Elevator Music, two new compilations that serve as minianthropologies of dubstep in 2010 who's making it and what it's sounding like. Elevator Music is a set of unmixed, exclusive tracks released on Fabric Recordings, a label linked to the London club of the same name (a former cold storage building; #2 on DJmag.com's Top 100 Clubs of 2009). Sub:stance is named for a dubstepthemed night at Berlin's Berghain (a former power station; #1), led by producer and Hotflush Recordings founder Paul Rose, aka Scuba.Elevator Music is brighter; Sub:stance is deeper and more atmospheric. What sounds better to you probably depends somewhat on temperament. If you don't think house music is chintzy shit for drunk clubbers, EM might be more appealing to you I certainly have more fun listening to it. If you like dubstep's mannered beauty and stiff upper lip, try Sub:stance. Even EM's most downtempo track (Om Unit's \"Encoded\") has a sizzling, upfront feel that Sub:stance's liveliest track (Joy Orbison's \"Hyph Mngo\") doesn't. There's certainly some overlap Martyn's \"Friedrichstrasse\" (from EV) could work on Sub:stance, and Ramadanman's \"Tempest\" (from Sub:stance) could work on EV: both tracks blur more lines than they draw.I'll admit that I'm not sensitive to mixing when I'm listening to a disc like Sub:stance I hear it more as a set of songs than a demonstration of his DJ prowess. Still, that doesn't bring Sub:stance down at all it's a listenable and succinct leadin to a lot of what's happening in dubstep, and I'd definitely recommend it to people who get freaked out and angry at the mere mention of dancemusic subgenres. Elevator Music isn't perfect either it's a scattered record that does more to undercut a definition of dubstep than to help define it. But when I hear what guys like Untold are doing \"NoOne Likes a Smart Arse\" for Sub:stance and the standout \"Bad Girls\" for EM I start to feel like that's part of the point: to set its weird little bastards running across the dancefloor, just to see what happens. "}