{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15020/homepage_large.e3263ff0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Broken Bells","title":"Broken Bells","text":" It's been a while since Danger Mouse or the Shins did anything to change your listening habits, let alone your life. In the past decade, Danger Mouse's landmark Grey Album mashup and membership in Gnarls Barkley helped anticipate indie rock's increasing openness to hiphop and R&B crossovers. A couple of years earlier, James Mercer paved the way for future indie crossover success stories with the Shins' Garden State contribution and controversial Olympicsaired McDonald's commercial. That the pair's paths might eventually cross was more inevitable than unexpected.Mercer and Danger Mouse's debut as Broken Bells is not quite up to the level of either's best projects, but in its own quiet way, it hits its marks. The pair first worked together on the David Lynch/Sparklehorse project Dark Night of the Soul, and Broken Bells picks up the sadsack spirit of that record it's a deceptively catchy album centered on personal loss. It's unclear whether we're supposed to trace Mercer's lyrical malaise to a shattered relationship with his band (Mercer split with Shins mates Marty Crandall and Jesse Sandoval in 2008), a lover, or both. But this much is certain: Something has ended.In the album's brightest moments, there are enough swooning harmonies, replayable choruses, and psychbaked production elements that you might not even notice Mercer's dark thoughts. Besides, the singer is clearly attempting to move on here, taking advantage of this fresh setting to try on new looks: filmscore orchestration and acid flange meet a Pet Soundslike vocal odyssey on \"Your Head Is on Fire\"; \"The Mall & the Misery\" opens with Springsteenian Americana and then veers off into postpunk guitar stabs; \"Sailing to Nowhere\" is a horrorshow waltz; and Mercer's nearly unrecognizable falsetto on album standout \"The Ghost Inside\" recalls the high, cracked croon of another Danger Mouse collaborator, Blur/Gorillaz singer Damon Albarn.An early version of the record included a nicely gloomy song with Knifelike vocal effects that's been replaced by the sumptuous psychpop balladry of \"Citizen\". \"Trap Doors\", already one of the album's catchiest songs, benefits from some extra synths and backing vocals, and \"October\" has a few new lyrics.Still, unlike its creators' best prior accomplishments, Broken Bells  doesn't seem prepared, or even attempting, to cross over. Nor does it feel like a new direction or outlet for either artist it's more of a nice detour. In one of the record's more cheerful moments, amid the shambling acoustic guitar and slithering keyboard of \"October\", he shares some helpful advice: \"Don't run, don't rush, just float.\" It's what he and Danger Mouse do here, and while that's hardly a recipe for breaking new ground, the results are rarely less than pleasant. Note: This piece as originally published was based on an earlier version of the album. The retail version includes differences that do not materially change the reviewer's opinion of the record. They are now accounted for above. We apologize for the oversight.  "}