{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15029/homepage_large.70ebb936.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan ","artist":"Pierced Arrows","title":"Descending Shadows","text":" Husband and wife Fred and Toody Cole released 15 LPs and nearly as many singles over the course of nearly 20 years as Dead Moon, in the process becoming PacNW rock 'n roll legends. After they had kids. Most of those records were selfreleased cut by Fred from the same lathe the Kingsmen's \"Louie, Louie\" was once famously carved. But in 2006, Dead Moon finally broke up after nearly two decades of grinding. The Coles were nearing 60; Fred was wearing hearing aids; Drummer Andrew Loomis felt it was time to stop. Naturally, they hung out for a few months before forming a new band: Pierced Arrows, with new drummer Kelly Halliburton, the son of a former bandmate of Fred's. As Toody Cole told Seattle Weekly in August 2007: \"Mom and Dad aren't ready to mellow out just yet.And they haven't. Not much, anyway. While Descending Shadows (their second fulllength and first for Vice) is leaner and mellower than anything they've done, it still barrels forth with the same haggard, longfanged intent that made Dead Moon so great. Here they mix in more country and blues licks, though where Pierced Arrows' garage rock truly deviates is in Fred and Toody's increased attention to melody. While fronting Dead Moon, Fred spent a lot of time filling his lyric sheets with nightmarish images of graveyards, impending doom, and (get this) moons. Pop elements were never far away, but riffs burrowed straight to your gut. Opener \"This Is the Day\" and the claustrophobic \"Buried Alive\" stick to that formula, as the ramble of \"Tripped Out\" and \"This Time Around\" sound stately. And in \"Ain't Life Strange\", we feel a fresh force. Over a flickering guitar, the Coles combine on vocal duties, sounding perfectly instep and totally in love. It's a slow jam and there are few traces of fuzz pedal, but it still has the mark of songwriting that can knock you down if you're not ready for it.Not long thereafter they up the volume again for \"Paranoia\", six mangy minutes of guitar noise slung around one simple, sly bass figure. Within its first 60 seconds, the cracks in Fred's voice are more on display than usual. While the two of them have never sounded polished behind a microphone, he sounds especially out of breath. But it's fitting: The Coles' music has always been direct and gloriously raw; they were, after all, pressing lofi long before the current wave of fuzzloving bands. Which is a slightly defensive way of saying that this music has never gone down smooth on tape. Be it in the growl of \"On Our Way\" or the belted/traded choruses of closer \"Coming Down to Earth\", the rough edges can't obfuscate how passionately every note's delivered. That can't be an easy thing to capture offstage. Somehow the Coles did. "}