{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15027/homepage_large.ac71cfdb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Kammerflimmer Kollektief","title":"Wildling","text":" At first glance, it's easy to mistake Germany's Kammerflimmer Kollektief for an experimental band. Their music features abstract vocals, electronics, and a sense of practiced spontaneity. But in fact, their focus is on musicianship, not innovation. Wildling is built from familiar units the patient development of jazz, the spacey glide of classic German psychedelia (think Cluster), and a bendy guitar style familiar from spaghetti Westerns scored by Ennio Morricone. With just a tinge of indierock melodicism and artrock posture, KK bind these familiar touchstones into a striking personal sound.This is cerebral, subtle music. There are few obvious climaxes. The conglomerated style feels balanced, because everyone plays their role sensitively. Double bassist Johannes Frisch provides a rocksolid jazz foundation for the movements, shifting between deep grooves and deft extemporization. Guitarist Thomas Weber provides a lot of the 1970s experimental and cinematic feel, simultaneously handling woozy but hardflecked guitars and electronic textures. Heike Aumüller provides the personality and humanizing voice, either sitting at her harmonium, or hunkering down on the floor with a flute or synthesizer. Drummer Christopher Brunner is adroit and featherlight. No one ever flies off on their own trip; all play tactfully and with a sense of the overriding structure.The scary mannequincreature from the cover of 2007's Jinx makes a return appearance here, now with its dress pulled down ominously. Fans of that record will find themselves right at home, as KK has always stressed gradual refinement over sudden left turns: The music is mannered, restrained, redolent of 70s exotica; the vocals are cool and remote but essentially passionate. Aumüller coos like an outmusic icediva amid the slow bluster of \"Move Right In\" as the guitar bends like cold starlight around the thumping double bass. \"I feel lightheaded,\" she sings on \"Aum AGoGo\", against a backdrop of xylophone and metallically textured ringlets. But you'd never guess it from her utterly composed delivery, which sounds lowkey even when chopped into a blur during the song's conclusion. She sings in a weird, sometimes incomprehensible English that conveys just fine you can tell that \"Spookin' the Horse\" is a love song, just from how the voice plays against the big swoony guitar chords. Regardless of whether it sounds like melted indie rock or coiling jazz, each song has a mysterious, soulful pulse to follow, always just out of reach. The record eschews highs and lows for a steady, seductive purr.To their credit, Kammerflimmer Kollektief get a long way into the record before their regimented style begins to show signs of wear. Former collaborator Dietrich Foth lends the welcome new timbre of his saxophone to \"Silver Chords\" and \"Spookin' the Horse\". \"In Transition (Version)\" is an epic, shivering dub, and \"Rotwelsch\" has an archly medieval feel, like Mary Timony gone jazz. While there are some nice numbers tucked away near the end the dubby \"Cry Tuff\", and \"We Paint the Town Beige\", whose chord progression and vocal melody obliquely but strongly suggest \"Karma Police\" the monolithic guitar tone begins to impose a kind of sameness. The music eventually gets so deep into the lizard brain that it nearly vanishes. But for fans of controlled musicianship and mysterious mood, this is a very nice surprise. "}