{"label":" Someone Good","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15021/homepage_large.fb8289e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Akira Kosemura","title":"Polaroid Piano","text":" As the title suggests, Akira Kosemura's entrancing Polaroid Piano is a wistful meditation for minimal piano and field recordings, bleached out with old light. The glitchy electronics of Kosemura's prior work are gone. The music is so hushed you can hear the action of the pedals, the keyboard shifting in the body of the piano. This quiet rumpus serves as a relaxed rhythm track one suspects Kosemura mic'd the piano to capture these extraneous sounds, drawing them purposefully into the music. The gesture is Cagean, but the questioning, wonderfilled style is pure Satie. The cover art captures the mood perfectly, although a blue sky filled with kites and balloons would have been just as apt.Music described approvingly as \"childlike\" strives for a rich, timeless simplicity that makes us forget about the constructed world we worry over. Polaroid Piano is stuffed with this feeling, not to mention some more blatant signifiers. A toy xylophone plinks through the sustained piano and softly rubbed acoustic guitar strings of \"Higari\".  On \"Sign\", birdsong twitters above the tentative piano phrases, while the faint sound of acoustic guitar ripples forward and backward. On \"Tale\", Kosemura cuts to the chase with a field recording of children playing over xylophone and sleigh bells. Bound to be the most divisive moment on the record, \"Tale\" will make your eyes either roll or tear up.A few pieces break Polaroid Piano's mold in careful ways. On \"Tyme\", the busiest piece here, the greater speed and density of the notes makes the clunks and creaks of the piano sound like an old copy machine. On \"Guitar\", guitar and piano notes blur amid crackling, fiery sounds and lightly scratched strings. And closer \"Venice\", the album's longest piece, is contrastingly liquid, with piano swirling against the lulling sound of water flowing calmly. Because it's so transient and mild 10 pieces flow by in less than half an hour the album, paradoxically, expands with multiple listens. It feels impossible to get tired of, circumscribed and boundless at once, and it's so subtle that you might let it spin two or three times before you start to notice the repetition. "}