{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15034/homepage_large.07b0a522.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Ted Leo and the Pharmacists","title":"The Brutalist Bricks","text":" Cred is essentially goodwill borne of good instincts. Ted Leo's got some fine instincts, and over the course of his career he's built up cred at an enviable rate. Lifers like Leo, unafraid of inserting passionate personal politics into ebullient guitar rock, don't come around too often, and few can boast a track record like his. The ease with which he synthesizes punk and its many roots and branches into something distinctly his own has only occasionally shown signs of slowing down.Still, you couldn't be blamed for being a little worried about Leo's dedication in the wake of his flimsiest fullband effort to date, 2007's Living With the Living. Living had its moments, for sure, but it was an overlong, unbalanced, occasionally sluggish record, one that felt especially weary in the wake of 2004's vitriolguided Shake the Sheets. It felt almost instantly like one of those long, allovertheplace punk records you admire and namecheck but don't ever pull out; the kind of thing that's historically ushered in the sunset of a oncefirebrand career.The Brutalist Bricks, the first Pharmacists LP for the increasingly punkleaning Matador, feels like a massive corrective to Living's letdowns. It runs 20 minutes shorter and has tauter, better tunes. After the bitter Shake the Sheets and the resigned Living, Bricks feels hopeful, purposeful, direct a mood helped along by the Pharmacists' most  impressive musical showing on wax since 2003's masterful Hearts of Oak. One never doubted Leo's passion, but Bricks finds him sounding rejuvenated, a refugee from the Bush regime poking his head above ground after lying low for Living and finding that now's the time to get to work.Bricks kicks off with the throatgrabbing \"The Mighty Sparrow\", and from there, the stink of shrapnel hangs in the air through the rest of the proceedings. Leo, ceasing to shout only to peel off a blistering solo, sounds plenty invigorated, but it's the Pharmacists new bassist Marty Key, longtime drummer Chris Wilson and jack of many trades James Canty who seem to be straightening Leo's spine and providing these tunes with a solid backbone. Leo's sound, so expansive in The Tyranny of Distance days, has been pared down further with each subsequent record, and despite a few dubby touches and a bit more acoustic guitar, Bricks follows that path. These tunes feel distilled to their very essence, and the first half of the record feels more like one long earworm.The middle third of Bricks is where you'll find its best bits, none better than \"Bottled in Cork\". Leo's long been a master of the travelogue; this one details the experience of being an Jerseyite overseas through the Bush era, and providing tips on how not to come off as an American idiot. The lightly funky \"One Polaroid a Day\" finds an unusually husky Leo him bemoaning the loss of true experience to constant documentation; take note, bloggers. The more breathless \"Where Was My Brain?\" and \"Gimme the Wire\" manage to stick despite their breakneck paces, thanks to Leo's insistence here on piling hooks on top of hooks; largely gone are the long expository verses from the Hearts/Sheets era and the neverending choruses of Living.But in distilling everything down to their essence, some of Leo's lyrical directness comes across a bit blunt not all, mind but there's a distinct lean towards sandwichboard fodder rather than the carefully constructed, metaphorlaced screeds of old. Few songwriters could kick off their best tune in years with a line like \"There was a resolution pending on the United Nations floor\" without inspiring either a yawn or a giggle, but Leo does it here with \"Bottled\"; he pulls it off okay, but there are a few more metaphoreschewing moments like these where Leo goes way literal. \"We all got a job to do and we all hate God\" is how he kicks off \"Woke Up Near Chelsea\", and it reads better than it sounds on record. The otherwise lovely \"Ativan Eyes\" begins with a tooclever nod to Marx: \"The industry's out of touch. The means of production are now in the hands of the workers\" just isn't a line that belongs in a pop tune, particularly one that implores someone to lay their hands on Leo just a couple stanzas later. Leo's still exceptionally adept at saying a lot in a small space but there are more than a few lines that feel a little too forceful no matter how many times you run into them, sitting slightly askew next to the richer images and more pointed jabs here.That occasional obtuseness is really the only thing keeping Bricks from the absolute uppertier of Leo records; well, that, and \"Tuberculoids Arrive in Hop\", an unfocused, murky number that's serves as little more than a breather amidst the LP's hyperkinetic back end. Still, you hit play on Brutalist Bricks and these things seem, at best, like secondary concerns; weak spots and strained metaphors aside, the passionate, instinctual Bricks is the finest record from one of the greats in six rocky years. "}