{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15039/homepage_large.7816da2c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Record Club","title":"Oar","text":" On October 10, 2008, I was ready to give up on Beck. That night, the singer looked too embarrassed, bored, or confused to make his show at Manhattan's United Palace Theater anything more than a depressing dud. It wasn't like the album he was touring behind, Modern Guilt, was exceptional, and the same could be said of his previous few LPs, too. Meanwhile, his website was a lumbering, flashbased nightmare that was successful at crashing browsers but little else. At that point, it seemed like a good idea for longtime Beck fans to cut and run.But perhaps Beck was growing weary of himself around that time as well, because 2009 marked an undertheradar creative comeback for one of the alternative era's most beloved stars. His teamup with the increasingly ineffectual Danger Mouse on Modern Guilt was soso, but it apparently spurred his collaborative spirit as he went onto write and produce Charlotte Gainsbourg's surprisingly stunning IRM. And he completely overhauled his website, swinging his online presence from worst to damnnear first almost overnight.The best feature of the new web space is Record Club, which finds Beck and some (usually quite famous) friends covering an entire album in one day. Along with people like MGMT, Devendra Banhart, Nigel Godrich, and brotherinlaw Giovanni Ribisi, Beck tackled the Velvet Underground & Nico's 1967 debut and Leonard Cohen's 1967 bow Songs of Leonard Cohen via weekly videos across the second half of 2009. According to a modest disclaimer on the Record Club homepage, \"There is no intention to 'add to' the original work or attempt to recreate the power of the original recording,\" and, aside from a few flashes of offhand greatness usually occurring when the players took more liberties with their source material the covers were passable trifles. But hey, seeing Beck, MGMT, and Devendra goofing around in pixelated home movies was a lot more fun than seeing Beck halfheartedly rehash his old hits live.With Record Club number three, the ante was officially upped: This time Beck wrangled Wilco, Feist, Jamie Lidell, legendary session drummer James Gadson (Diana Ross, Marvin Gaye, the Jackson 5), and others to take on Skip Spence's 1969 cult favorite Oar. And most everyone stepped up to the task this is the best, most focused Record Club yet, at times transcending the project's transitory, celebritycoverband conceit.Spence originally recorded Oar after a sixmonth stay at New York's Bellevue Hospital, where he was deemed schizophrenic. (The onetime Jefferson Airplane and Moby Grape member was committed after hacking a bandmate's door down with an ax during a particularly rowdy LSD trip.) The Summer of Love hangover LP was predictably allovertheplace at times funny, dark, psychedelic, folky, somber, spiritual. And, if nothing else, Beck's diverse group do an admirable job of conveying the album's infinite tangents and possibilities; their manyvoiced approach could be descended straight from Spence's cracked psyche.Since each song comes packaged with its own instudio video, Record Club gives people a rare glimpse at not just an artist's sound but their creative temperament as well. With this in mind, the undoubted star of Oar is techno twiddlercumsoul blower Jamie Lidell, who grabs the spotlight on two of the project's most offbeat covers and can be seen spreading merriment throughout. Locking in with Gadson, Lidell transforms folkblues tracks \"Cripple Creek\" and \"Books of Moses\" into skeletal funk workouts while losing none of Spence's tortured soul.Feist nails her lone solo vocal performance on one of Oar's more indelible tunes, the harrowing lament \"Weighted Down\". Instead of trying to match the original's heft, the crew wisely backs her with bubbly, Midnite Vulturesstyle electropop and a virtuosic, hummingbirdlike solo from Wilco guitarist Nels Cline. And this project's finest moment is also one of the simplest; woozy strut \"All Come to Meet Her\" is stripped down to a neara cappella hymn with almost everyone involved forming a halfcircle around a microphone. As the voices of Beck, Jeff Tweedy, Lidell, and others blend into one, it's like hearing the imagined goal of Record Club brilliantly coming to life.Elsewhere, Tweedy does his best with the album's sillier songs, including innuendolaced sex romp \"Dixie Peach Promenade\" and the skewed \"Margaret/Tiger Rug\", but not even he can make such hippie nonsense vaguely contemporary. (He fares better singing with Feist on \"Broken Heart\", which could pass for a Wilco outtake.) And then there's Beck himself, who takes lead on the leastrisky covers, \"Little Hands\" and \"Diana\", and often looks more content directing traffic on the sidelines.In fact, when it comes to Beck, the session's most enlightening moment is featured in a behindthescenes mini doc posted in January. In it, we see Gadson and Lidell in a heady funk, grooving on \"Books of Moses\". Then the camera turns to Beck on the other side of the studio glass, debating whether to fade the jam out or let it ride. \"Let's fade it, we've got like 10 more songs to do,\" he says a disappointingyetlogical choice indicative of his latterday mien. Then he just stands there, smiling and nodding for a few more seconds. \"I hate killing it let's fade it back up,\" he tells the engineer, laughing. He's not ready to call it quits just yet. "}