{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15048/homepage_large.577c4487.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"LoneLady","title":"Nerve Up","text":" It's one thing, in 2010, to release an album that owes a collegeloansized debt to all sorts of postpunk touchstones; it's a totally different thing, however, when such an album a debut, no less earns the breathless praise of famed UK music journalist Paul Morley for that very quality. It takes something extraordinary to inspire someone that was there for the birth and ascendancy of Gang of Four and Wire and Public Image Limited and Joy Division and any other notable group from that scene to pen something like, \"she might have been Fac 17/or she might have sung two shows with Section 25 and once met Blue Orchids around the back of a cinema showing Existenz.\" In other words, Morley's not just saying that LoneLady does a fine job mimicking her musical idols, but actually positions herself as a worthy peer to those very same groups.Nerve Up is primarily the creation of singer/guitarist Julie Campbell, a native of Manchester who shows an uncanny ability to reinvigorate a sound that was seemingly beyond saving. When she slashes a pick across her guitar strings, there's no way to avoid using a word like \"sharp\" and \"angular\" in describing what emerges, and the way she sings agitated, clipped, in terse fragments perfectly complements those sounds. Campbell also employs a drum machine; it's presumably out of necessity, but the unerring precision of the backbeat does help maintain the sharpness of Nerve Up's edges. The combination of these elements gives the album a nervous, contagious energy that's evident the moment \"If Not Now\" starts, with Campbell furiously cycling through a twonote pattern on her guitar.Most of the songs on Nerve Up follow the same template guitar chords are fired off, cryptic phrases are aired out (\"sun threaten the horizon like a black sign\"; \"said a ghost is more solid than that\"), and the drum machine hits it marks. Thankfully, Campbell finds enough wiggle room in this formula to keep things from stagnating where \"If Not Now\" and \"Early the Haste Comes\" hit the ground running, \"Intuition\" ass  umes a cocky and confident swagger  .Thanks should also be directed to coproducer and former Laika member Guy Fixsen (My Bloody Valentine, Pixies, Stereolab). Fixsen adds the right amount of polish to these proceedings without overwhelming the songs accentuating the pish of a fauxcymbal here, adding some reverb to Campbell's voice there. These touches are so slight as to seem inconsequential, yet they prove to be invaluable. And sometimes the touches aren't so subtle a song like \"Immaterial\" with its charming lope and Campbell's keening vocals, would probably sound like a long lost 4AD gem (from the days of Throwing Muses and This Mortal Coil) without much trouble. The gauzy sheen that the track is given, however, is so reminiscent of that sound, it'd be hard for folks of a certain age (cough cough) to not imagine the accompanying (and undoubtedly awkward yet charming) video. I don't doubt that Fixsen also had a hand in giving the title track a funky pop earworm that lets Campbell stand toetotoe with Goldfrapp and Róisín Murphy a little something extra to make it truly pop.And then, after nine tracks of this wonderful walltowall skittishness, comes the album finale \"Fear No More\", a complete departure from what preceded it. It's a stark, spacious song that fills the void with a sepulchral guitar line, haunting background moans, what sounds like violin and balalaika, and Campbell singing about \"the furious winter\" and dreams of \"fields, lonely and sweet, like Montana or Idaho.\" \"Fear No More\"'s pensive yearning, however, is of a piece with the more upfront restlessness that permeates the majority of Nerve Up. Hopefully, this type of maneuver is proof that LoneLady, having shown an astonishing ability to express her voice using the sounds of others, will work extra hard to make sure she doesn't repeat herself. "}