{"label":" Absalom","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1388/homepage_large.6bbdbc5c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Charity Empressa","title":"Charity Empressa","text":" The first time I listened to this album, I seriously considered writing this review as a single runon sentence. This is, after all, music that drones on and on with nary a single bit of punctuation to be found. In fact, on first listen, I didn't make it past the second track. But, as I'm dutybound to actually listen to everything I review, I spun it again a few days later with the volume up some and it revealed itself to be, well, not so terrible I couldn't take it in one sitting. Seven listens later, I'm a bit divided on what to tell you about Charity Empressa's selftitled debut album. I suppose starting with some background couldn't hurt, so I'll offer this for you to chew on while I gather my thoughts: Charity Empressa is a twoman unit comprised of Eric Campuzano of the Lassie Foundation, assisted by a guy who goes by \"The Frank Lenz Foundation.\" They're helped out by a wideranging cast of guest vocalists and instrumentalists, though it's never made very clear who contributes what, or even what some of the musicians play. In passing, I'll mention that Charity Empressa are openly and forthrightly Christian, but it barely matters, as only one moment on the whole record even evidences that fact.Charity Empressa begins with a series of layered, vacuumpacked drones and some new age keyboards that are initially rather pleasant. \"This is a nice intro,\" you think, easing back in your chair. The only problem is that an intro needs a song to be a part of, and most introductions aren't over four minutes long. A pall of hazy reverb and drones hangs as though dead, daubed with noodling on the brightly toned keyboard. Even the programmed drum beat that comes in near the end doesn't make it more interesting. Hell, you can't even hear it if you don't have your stereo turned up loud enough. By the time they actually decide to shift the overall texture, you've stopped listening. The shift doesn't really lead to a higher gear, either, and the song just kind of evaporates. Ironically, they've chosen to title the song \"Are We There Yet?\" The second track, \"Carew,\" answers that question by saying, \"No, but here's a trumpet.\" Over basically the same foundation, guest trumpeter Matt Fronke does his best 1969 Miles Davis impression, and to his credit, it's the third most interesting thing on the entire album. The main problem occurs when you realize that he isn't really playing much of a theme rather, he's simply wandering in a droning wasteland of shimmery texture. Shortened to thirty seconds, this would have made a fine outro to an early Verve bside, but here it just drags on and on. \"Future King of England\" adds some heavily phased vocals from Wayne Fernandez Everett. Everett's sense of key is interpretive at best, and the whole thing plays largely like a tribute to the haunting vocal break of Godspeed You Black Emperor!'s \"Providence\" slathered in a big, silky drone. It's pretty and all, but why it lasts over six minutes is beyond me, considering that, by then, it's exhausted its welcome three times over. This brings us to the second most interesting moment on this album: the vaguely Eastern \"May the Good Lord Find You.\" A steady tabla beat chugs away in the background, marching through a mist of that same drone that covers everything else. Guest vocalist Raquel Munoz offers a decent melody for the first time on the record, and the song is actually short enough not to grow tiresome. Any renewed interest is quickly squelched, however, by \"Give 'Em Hell,\" 10\\xBD minutes of drone that services their own title's request. At first, the drone is mixed with some fairly neat static, and somewhat regular hand percussion moves in and out of the background at a few points, but there's virtually nothing to justify the song's length. In the end, the swelling hum comes across about as interesting as an academic demonstration of an early FM synthesizer. \"The Crush of the Mountains\" is only slightly more interesting, and this is due to vocalist Matt Kelly, whose multitracked melody saves it from allout numbing boredom, but does little to contour it. Thankfully, it's followed by what is far and away the best thing Charity Empressa have to offer a unique track called \"Shake Your Money Maker.\" The song samples a 1939 recording by the Albert Francis Trio of a song called \"The Risen Savior and the Rhythm Maker,\" taken from the Library of Congress archives. At less than three minutes, it's the perfect length, and the backing provided by the band for the sample is unusually vibrant and rhythmic. Funky little bass figures dance around busily tapping rhythms, and the drones, though present, are kept largely to a minimum. Of the remaining four songs, only one stands out at all. \"Stay Gold\" follows the same drone blueprint, adding a little bit of guitar, which inevitably merges with the rest of the background. \"Cool as Cranes\" is an ephemeral wisp of a song buried deep in stationary drones. \"Breathing is Good,\" which is largely the same thing with a female vocalist, is equally brief and inconsequential. Finally, closer \"The Kool Kids and Rok and Roll\" comes in with some strong male vocals, an actual bassline, and some maracas to keep time. Initially, there are no drones at all, and the first one to enter is provided not by big, gauzy, echoing synths, but an organ. The lyrics are quaint, referencing the MC5 and the Rolling Stones and calling on God to bless rock and roll. Of course, by the song's end, it's enveloped once again by big, drony synths, and it ends sounding much like it began listless and unobtrusive. And with that the disc is over, and we come to the reason I'm so divided on what to say about this album. I actually like the sound of it a lot, but it never takes that intriguing sound and does enough with it for me. Likewise, I know there are people out there who will lap this up quite enthusiastically. If you're into drone outfits like Stars of the Lid, for example, there's probably a lot to like for you about Charity Empressa. However, for me, this record simply doesn't succeed on most levels. And that's all I've got to say. "}