{"label":" Matador / True Panther","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15057/homepage_large.cd3da5ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Hunx and His Punx","title":"Gay Singles","text":" Despite the fact that Gay Singles is Hunx and His Punx's trashyexcellent first fulllength, you may be familiar with the group's frontman Hunx, aka Seth Bogart, whether you know it or not. Perhaps you know him from his keyboard and vocal duties in Oakland's garishly theatrical, ambisexual band Gravy Train!!!!. Or perhaps you recognize him from his very naked appearance in the \"hardcore\" version of his labelmates Girls' \"Lust For Life\" video. Or maybe you're one of the fans that have been trolling eBay for the five hardtofind, soldout Hunx and His Punx singles that have been released (and just as quickly snapped up) over the past two years.If you count yourself in the latter category, then you're in luck; this album collects the tunes from those 7”s, presenting them (along with new bonus track \"Do the Make Up\") together for the first time. If you count yourself in the first category, however, you may be quite surprised by Gay Singles. There are no cartoonish synthesizer melodies, cheap Casio beats, or partystarting cacophonies of cowbell. There's no tongueincheek rapping, either. Yes, the content is still overtly sexual, but it is softer and sweeter both lyrically and musically than anything you'd expect from a Gravy Train!!!! member.Hunx and His Punx make swooning bubblegumpunk, and though they aren't the first group to marry the effortless, sugary pop of 60s girl groups with the garagerock revival, they might be the first whose skuzzy \"My Boyfriend's Back\"like songs are explicitly homoerotic. There is a wry dissonance between the songs' easy threechord strums, resonant vintage organ flourishes, and handclapped percussion and their plainspoken lyrics about getting into someone's pants. The songwriters (most tracks are credited to a combination of Bogart and Justin Champlin, the garagepunk character known as Nobunny) may think they're being shocking, but the lyrics are actually charmingly innocent. While Gravy Train!!!! sing explicitly raunchy lyrics about masturbation, lap dances, and hand jobs, Hunx are more interested in winning over straight guys (\"I don't think he's gonna miss her/ Cuz I'm a really good kisser,\" Bogart sings on \"Good Kisser\"), and flipping 60s girlpop tropes like waiting for boys to call.The outrageously tarty presentation plus faux naïve musical content highlights a winning group of influences John Waters, the ShangriLas, the Ramones and the collection is surprisingly cohesive for a singles compilation. Bogart sings with a whining, nasal bray that may be offputting or gratingly flat to some, but swathed in cheap, tinny reverb, it gets the rebellious, adolescent vibe right. After all the homoeroticism, this is at heart a record about the thrust and vitality of rock'n'roll: \"You like Morrissey, you like U2/ What the fuck is wrong with you?\" Bogart sings on opener \"You Don't Like Rock'n'Roll\", and if you think it's a legit question you might want to sing it along with him. "}