{"label":" Majordomo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15056/homepage_large.ae22303a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Miles Kurosky","title":"The Desert of Shallow Effects","text":" When Beulah split, it seemed like something of a mercy killing; over the course of four LPs, their impeccably arranged take on bubblegum psych grew dourer and more heartbroken, and so did the band themselves. Nearly a year before the breakup, frontman Miles Kurowsky was already questioning the purpose of continuing, telling Rolling Stone, \"Here I am in an indie rock band that's done quite well and done a lot of things we never thought we would. We've played festivals, we've been on Conan O'Brien... but at the end of the day I wonder what I've done. All I got is some crow's feet. What's the fucking prize?\"Though they never quite gained the foothold it seemed they might've during their eightyear run, Beulah's catalog has won them quite a few converts in the years since their split, with this new crew finding particular solace in their later work. Now, after six years of almost complete silence, Kurosky delivers his solo debut, The Desert of Shallow Effects, to a cult in waiting. I can't help but think of fellow California pop geeks Weezer a decade ago; their difficult posthiatus work, like this newfound appreciation of Beulah's last couple records, had served as a new entrance point for latecomers while the band was in limbo, and upon reentry, the band found itself faced with an unusual set of expectations.In a few ways, Desert could've easily served as the next Beulah record; Kurosky's voice hasn't lost a step in his years away, and it's as pristinely orchestrated as ever, thanks in part to the many exBeulah members lending a hand. But Kurosky, who's likened these newer songs to stories rather than his earlier confessionals and free associations, seems hellbent on making sure we consider the halfdecadeplus he's had to incubate these numbers. The songs have grown knottier and the arrangements more finicky, and Kurosky's lyrics have shed much of their directness in favor of more emphasis on narrative. It's a striking pullback from the swoony sulk of Yoko and The Coast Is Never Clear; like Weezer's Green Album, it's a proficient but impersonal collection of tunes that seem guided less by heart than by a kind of muscle memory.Desert of Shallow Effects is a tremendous sounding record, brimming with nuance but never averse to orchestral overload. It's a precision attack, and as lofty and lovely as these tunes can sound, even their noteperfect nature seems to hold the listener at arm's length. But the real distance in the record is generated by Kurosky's lyrics, a series of clipped phrases and red herrings loosely compiled in the shape of storysongs, rich in imagistic detail but short in the personals department. This is a guy whose bestever lyric might be \"all we need is a pretty song,\" but there's simply nothing that directly affecting here; it's as if Kurosky, shy of the virulent response to his heartonsleeve stuff from Coast and Yoko, wanted nothing more than to stay the hell out of the way this time around. And, while a line or two pops out of nearly every song here, his tendency to shove several words where a few would do further adds to Desert's overstuffed feeling.Amidst all the prim and proper stuff here, picking moments that stand out proves a challenge. The Beulah loyal may well lap this one up, but it's hard to imagine Kurosky's solo bow winning him many newfound fans; unless you're all about flute solos and such, Desert is just a tough record to make inroads with. It's nice to see Kurosky has moved on from the beauteous bumouts of the Yoko days and good to see he's not interested in repeating himself, but were Desert the fifth Beulah record, it'd be the fifth best. One hopes next time around, after getting six years' worth of songs out of his system, Kurosky can find a way to sneak some more heart into the symphonies playing in his head. "}