{"label":" Arcade Sound","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15060/homepage_large.4ce53252.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"MillionYoung","title":"Be So True EP","text":" South Florida's Mike Diaz (aka MillionYoung) manages to evoke some surprisingly warm textures from chillwave's nowfamiliar sounds and motifs. Much of the music on Be So True shares some of the same hallmarks that freckle that movement: soft pulsing rhythms, dreamwashed melodies, and nostalgiainducing electronic patterns. Much less sampleheavy than its predecessor, this year's earlier Sunndreamm EP, Be So True collects more straightforward, deeply romantic electropop creations, alternately simmering with joy and traces of fragility.The music here sounds more synthetic than most current bedroom electronic projects, and Diaz reconfigures aqueous tones with an impressive array of rhythmic accents to give his productions momentum. But it's Diaz's vocals that lend a muchneeded organic element. Though it's sometimes difficult to locate exactly what Diaz might be saying, since he often chops and pitchshifts his already distantsounding voice much like Washed Out's Ernest Greene does, lyrical sentiments take a backseat as his words melt into the lushness of his productions, often evoking a mood or emotion with a simple vocal intonation.With the careful attention Diaz pays to his assortment of drum sounds, it's also easy to make a dance connection even the dayglo artwork suggests the EP has as much to do with movement as feeling. \"Cynthia\" and \"Soft Denial\" possess enough momentum and blissedout nuance to earn club play. But due to paced, introspective additions like the slow, Human Leagueindebted \"Mien\" or quick interlude \"Pilfer\", Be So True feels most rewarding in headphones, as repeat listens find the record inhabiting a more somber, personal space.Most ambitious and impressive is the closing track, \"Day We Met\", a distorted collage of the ideas and accents Diaz toys with throughout the disc's toobrief 17minute span. Here, a more complex time signature gives way to cascading percussion, a pair of intertwining, waterfalllike synths, and a clipped female vocal. Only about midway through does Diaz's own voice appear to bring order to the mounting chaos. \"I just want to hold it all in my hands,\" he wails as the storm finally begins to break. Here, Diaz gets his wish, as Be So True is condensed into one fractured swoop. "}