{"label":" Bella Union","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15065/homepage_large.d520cbbc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Lawrence Arabia","title":"Chant Darling","text":" There's something almost charmingly oldfashioned about James Milne's U.S. debut as Lawrence Arabia. There's of course that cinematic pseudonym, alluding to a Hollywood epic almost half a century old. There's also his unyielding devotion to 1960s pop music, which treats the Beatles catalog as untrod territory. But mostly it's the New Zealander's steadfast refusal to join any current pop trend, indie or otherwise, which seems a bit surprising given that Milne has played with the Ruby Suns, the Brunettes, and Okkervil River. He distances himself so far from the present that he actually sounds somewhat distinctive. Pop history, however, is littered with those who have taken up the Fab mantle to high praise, from Jim Noir all the way back to Todd Rundgren and beyond.Which is only to say that Milne is no outsider. His wellschooled command of hooks and pomp does not make him unique, just obsessive and perhaps a bit singleminded. In fact, his debut's primary limitation is that for all his fifthBeatle vocals and the loose Höfner plunk of his basslines, Chant Darling seeks to imitate, not to innovate. At times it sounds like nothing we haven't heard before, but there are, of course, pleasures to be found in this approach, like the snaky guitar and snappy hook of \"Apple Pie Bed\", the chipper calypso sample that forms the rhythmic foundation of \"Auckland CBD Part Two\", or the decadent languor of \"I've Smoked Too Much\". Milne lets a lot of ideas loose on this album, and occasionally they get away from him. In particular, he has a tendency to repeat phrases and melodies, striving for hynotic but more often achieving tedious. \"The Undesirables\" run its sleepy hook into the ground in just two minutes, and \"The Beautiful Young Crew\" tugs obsessively at its knotty melody.Lyrically, Milne can be slyly witty and genially selfdeprecating, as on the opener, \"Like a Fool\". \"I'm on the ground, girl, I'm thrashing 'round,\" he sings. \"It's easy to see what this display is for, to show you what you mean to me.\" In addition to anchoring him in the here and now, that sense of haplessness is at direct odds with the song's dapper arrangements; if his thoughts are scattered, his music remains suave and martini sophisticated. Chant Darling doesn't hit strike that balance often enough, and very few of these songs allow such a glimpse of the musician behind them. Ultimately, Lawrence Arabia's carefully tailored influences have the same effect as that stage name, as if Milne was intent on absenting himself from his own album. "}