{"label":" Woodsist","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15066/homepage_large.b6ace324.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amy Granzin","artist":"The Art Museums","title":"Rough Frame EP","text":" Woodsist is best known as the recordreleasing arm of New York folkies Woods and the label that helped put fellow East Coasters Real Estate, Vivian Girls, and Crystal Stilts on the map. So it's curious that almost no one is doing more to boost San Francisco's ascendant artpop scene. In the past six months alone, Woodsist has put out albums by the Fresh & Onlys, Moon Duo, and the Art Museums. Of the three, the Art Museums comprised of Josh Alper (Whysp) and Glenn Donaldson (Skygreen Leopards) comes off as the most conventional. Passing on their peers' experimental tendencies, the duo enthusiastically professes the lofi indie pop religion of heroes Television Personalities and legendary labels like Sarah, Slumberland, K, and Flying Nun.So the songs on their debut, Rough Frame, are catchy and concise and authentically coated with the gunk of a Tascam 388 tape machine. In fact, their primitive recording equipment is probably the best instrument in the duo's arsenal, which also includes rattling guitars and chintzy vintage synthesizers and drum machines. The Art Museums plead poverty and a desire for spontaneity, but you have to be pretty shrewd to sound this sloppy and this great. Album opener \"We Can't Handle It\" would be a fine pop song if you took a bar of soap to it. But its production debris gives it texture and substance, and the country mile that stretches between its Casio beats and muffled vocals lends the track a mystery that would probably otherwise elude it.Lyrically, the release is just as hyperconscious. Rough Frame stalks artistwannabes in their natural habitats sculpture gardens and cinemas, rock clubs and hipster parties to subtly satiric effect. \"You took your bike to a nearby park/ Was it romantically charged?\" they tease on Guided by Voicesflavored \"Paris Cafés\". Meanwhile, the title track narrates a \"crisis of youth shot in 24 frames\" with beatific harmonies and a straight face. And \"Oh Modern Girls\" surveys the scene from the perplexed perspective of an older guy dating a younger girl: \"These animals in sweater vests/ DIY kids, standard test.\"It's obvious where the band's sympathies lie, but I doubt the Art Museums would exempt themselves from their own critique. Responding to a blogger's \"musical inspiration\" query, Donaldson offers up \"modernism, pop art, social commentary, and personal catharsis.\" In case his bandmate's meaning isn't crystal clear, Alper adds, \"ecstatic absurdity and blissful reflection on imagined subcultural scenes and the tension of modern life.\" Dudes may be calling bullshit on bohemianlikeme posturing, but they also understand their role in the racket. Fortunately, their tunes admit no such ambivalence: Rough Frame is a brief, brilliant set of infectious songs, and you can always ignore the lyrics if you want. "}