{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15070/homepage_large.786e93c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Serena-Maneesh","title":"S-M 2: Abyss in B Minor","text":" When Sufjan Stevens turned up in the credits to the selftitled 2006 debut from Norwegian fuzzrockers SerenaManeesh, it seemed pretty random his freshfaced orchpop being about a million vibelevels removed from their noddedout lurch. But now, four years later, SM have finally gotten around to dropping a follow up, and hey, Sufjan's back again, adding barely perceptible instrumental flourishes (vibraphone, flute, piano) to the general maelstrom. Here Sufjan's presence makes a little bit more sense. Like his Scandinavian coconspirators, Sufjan likes his jams elaborate. And though the absurdly titled SM 2: Abyss in B Minor might not bring the layered twee overkill of, say, Illinois, it's still busy as all hell.This time around, SerenaManeesh face down the Loveless challenge more directly and bravely than any of their neoshoegaze peers. While most effectspedal new jacks are content to let their guitar whoosh enhance their diffuse hooks, SerenaManeesh use noise and pop against each other, staging an internal war in every single track. The band does write hooks, but those hooks have to claw their way through layers of wriggling noise to reach sunlight. To get to track two, albumhighlight and single \"I Just Want to See Your Face\", you have to make it through \"Ayisha Abyss\", a sevenminute instrumental motorik dirge caked in crackly, inscrutable shards of walkietalkie chatter. And you'd think \"Face\", a threeminute love song, would prove a lot friendlier, but no, not really. Even there, everything seems to be fighting everything else, as staticy halfformed guitar riffs push against each other, and the melody, while pretty, never quite resolves. SerenaManeesh make your ears work.More often than not, they reward that work. There's nearly as much XTRMNTRera Primal Scream here as there is MBV. It's fun just to hear the way they orchestrate all the chaos on a song like \"Honeyjinx\", where, at any given moment, you'll hear quasimedieval flutetootles, windchimes, narcotized vocals, and gigantically misanthropic doommetal riffage. On the albumclosing \"Magdalena (Symphony #8)\", acoustic guitars and rippling bongos sweeten the mood but can't pierce the thick, viscous coat of synthetic drone that slathers everything.But the problem with any album that invites this many comparisons to Loveless is simply that it's not Loveless. As on that album, the songs feel like they're whirling so far into the stratosphere that they might fly apart any second. But the basic melodies on Loveless were strong enough to carry the burden of the effects, and the same can't always be said about SerenaManeesh. Like Primal Scream, they rely a little too much on seething cool when any sort of deeper feeling would go a long way. Elvira Nikolaisen's vocals may have a certain mysterious, icy beauty, but it's not the kind that hints at big things going on beneath the surface. Meanwhile, when her frontman brother Emil sings, he doesn't even have the icybeauty thing to fall back on. So it's easy to admire the roiling conviction that makes the album go, but it's a lot harder to love the actual songs that that conviction yields. "}