{"label":" Italian Beach Babes / Paradise Vendors","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15063/homepage_large.a4fb976d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Various Artists","title":"PVI006/IBB004","text":" Listening to this brisk collection of eager UK bands, I'm reminded of early1990s indie comps, which often resonated as much as albums by individual artists. There are no big concepts or specific themes on Flying Nun's In Love With These Times, Homestead's Human Music, Teenbeat's 50, or K's International Pop Underground Convention, but something less tangible energy, common backgrounds, maybe just the serendipity of timing unifies these sets. Whatever it is, the label heads certainly heard something unifying in those bands, seeing past surface styles to a deeper camaraderie.That kind of camaraderie is all over PV006/IBB004, whose oddlooking title replicates its two labels' catalog numbers. It helps that most of these bands rooted at their most basic in a shared love of lofi garage rock actually are comrades. Seek them out on MySpace and you'll see the others listed as top friends, alongside announcements about joint performances and split releases on cassette or vinyl. There's some kind of underground community bubbling up here, but there's no name for it yet. And if the album's title is any indication, the people involved don't want one. Aboveground recognition may come one contributor, Male Bonding, has a Sub Pop debut due in May. But as long as these bands get to keep playing together, whether their audience is the whole world or just each other seems kinda trivial.The music itself is roughly recorded, but only a few tracks are drenched in noise or hidden behind walls of distortion. Songwriting is a priority, from the most basic twochord melodies to some chopsheavy jams. It's all pop of the garage variety, and a lot of it is very catchy. Plug's \"Fresh Pleasures\" and La La Vasquez's \"Don't Rush Me\" both ride bass lines so sturdy they make offkilter guitars and vocals sound oddly tuneful. Just as snappy are the ringing guitars of Cold Pumas' \"Tropical Guilt\" and Fair Ohs' \"Christmas Tree\", both mining territory between Abe Vigoda and Vampire Weekend.But the point here isn't so much how each band sounds as how much energy they bring to the enervated proceedings. Even slower, more casual songs have a nervy insistence. Mazes deliver a creaking nearballad that sounds like Times New Viking covering Dinosaur Jr., while Spectrals' offering conjures the primitive twang of Beat Happening. Still, the faster tunes on PV006/IBB004 captivate most, and the best come at the beginning and end. Teen Sheiks' \"Germs\" stirs New Zealand pop and American garage into an uncannily familiar hook. Twentytwo minutes later, Not Cool's \"Limbs are for Liars\" ends the comp with speedpunk rhythms and slashing guitar. Those bookends make for a nice prologue and epilogue, and while the album may not tell a specific story, there's certainly some kind of moral here maybe something about how great bands can sound when they feed off each other, both in real life and in the crackling grooves of wellsequenced vinyl. "}