{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15073/homepage_large.f32c56ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Ben Sollee and Daniel Martin Moore","title":"Dear Companion","text":" A stateofthestate album, Dear Companion finds three musicians focusing on the ecological challenges facing of old Kentucky home. Between them, they represent a range of the Bluegrass State's musical traditions: Lexington native Ben Sollee plays cello in a style that borrows from Appalachian techniques, Daniel Martin Moore of Cold Spring is a solo folk artist whose unsolicited demos earned him a slot on Sub Pop's roster, and producer Yim Yames sings in Louisville's famed My Morning Jacket. On their first record together, they play songs about the Kentucky mountains and the plight brought on by the industrial practice called mountaintop removal mining, which is just as invasive and evil as it sounds. Dear Companion examines what it means to be from Kentucky when Kentucky is disappearing both literally (entire mountains are being obliterated) and culturally (the geography that shaped its culture and music is being drastically reshaped).So this is exactly the kind of album you want to succeed, and for the most part, it does. Dear Companion generally avoids the selfimportance of most issuedriven music, mainly because Sollee and Moore write songs that rarely stray from their own points of view. Rather than sing about a tractor dismantling a mountain, they focus on their own fears and hopes, especially as they bear on subsequent generations. In addressing these concerns, the songs can be measured and even moving, but occasionally they get a bit lofty. On the aggressively humble \"Only a Song\", with its lyrics about ghettos and Harlem Globetrotters, Sollee and Moore solemnly offer, \"But this is only a song, it can't change the world.\" While their voices don't have the rough edges to sell the hardened blues of the title track, their harmonies are loose and casual on opener \"Something, Somewhere, Sometime\" and \"My Wealth Comes to Me\", which breaks into a chorus that sounds like an updated Louvin Brothers.Fine singers all, Sollee, Moore, and Yames wisely keep the focus primarily on the stringed instruments. Playing guitar and cello almost exclusively, Moore and especially Sollee draw from regional music traditions, but instead of making a folk or bluegrass or country album, they have meshed those styles into a modern sound whose spareness may be its greatest virtue. Sollee's cello adds chilling low end to the coda of \"Sweet Marie\" and creates a high, keening melody on \"It Won't Be Long\", but mostly he plucks and hammers at the strings to create a tectonic rumble, as if trying literally to interpret the sound of mountaintop removal. He and Moore play like they're trying to prove Kentucky's cultures and traditions not only remain relevant at a time when regional distinctions are rapidly disintegrating, but continue to inspire new generations of musicians. "}