{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15083/homepage_large.a5a153d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"Happy Birthday","title":"Happy Birthday","text":" Happy Birthday's Kyle Thomas just wanted some company. In late 2008, the Vermont native, who also writes and records on his own as King Tuff, had some new songs to share. He was too scared to play them out alone, so for one show he threw together a band with Chris Weisman on bass and Ruth Garbus (sister of tUnEyArDs' Merrill Garbus) on drums. It went over pretty well. They decided to keep playing together, and four gigs later, Sub Pop snapped the trio up. Thomas' songs can take your breath away that easily.As King Tuff, he developed a committed DIY following by sticking close to the textures of 70s power pop and glam T. Rex and Flamin' Groovies are two handy reference points. As Happy Birthday, Thomas and his bandmates still hang out with those sounds some, but they've also combined to make a twofaced blend of twee and grunge, a pretty natural fit for their label. Aesthetically and sonically, few other subgenres could be further away from one another, but the meetup is a great idea executed really well. Thomas glues the pretty (Garbus' vocals) and ugly (his own screeching, see also: his work singing in Witch) together with fantastic melodies, at times so plentiful they bury one another. He also has a tendency to vocalize his guitar melodies, an effect that makes for heavy layering, burying some of his best hooks. (In opener \"Girls FM\", a haymaker single that's already been making the web rounds, listen closely to how Thomas' guitar twists during its runs through the coda.)But the songs that bulldoze you grant all of their moving parts a similar amount of space. \"2 Shy\" is a clinic in vocal harmonizing, and \"Pink Strawberry Shake\" is the kind of AM gold David Vandervelde's been going in circles searching for recently. Lyrically, however, Thomas spends a lot of time indoors, framing himself as an acnesplotched teen who enjoys no successes communicating with or courting the opposite sex. And without question, the sly romance of \"Subliminal Message\" is the crown jam here: four minutes of sugar featuring a behemoth, synthhinged chorus that he should share with that girl ASAP.Happy Birthday falter only when Thomas chooses to burp all over a song when he should just let breathe. On \"Perverted Girl\", he forgoes a bridge by wrenching some sorethroated wails and racket in there instead. Or maybe it's a bridge. That short blast of scuzz and scream works perfectly within the bratty punk of \"Zit\", Thomas' refrain, \"Now I wanna break shit/ Don't want to make shit/ Just want to waste it\" a pretty funny line coming from a dude who's rumored to have stockpiled huge numbers of songs in his room. He should definitely keep them coming. "}