{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15093/homepage_large.e72f408e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"Alex Bleeker and the Freaks","title":"Alex Bleeker and the Freaks","text":" The men of Real Estate are very generous about backing one another's likeminded creative adventures. Bassist Alex Bleeker's first solo EP is in front of the Freaks, a gang that's more Crazy Horse than Galaxie 500, and one that happens to include Real Estate frontman Martin Courtney and guitarist Matthew Mondanile. (The former has taken over bass duty, while the latter bangs drums.) The sonics are similarly submerged, but the pop format is much different: this is Strumming Country, tone trumps texture. Bleeker's got a fantastic ear for steering his crew's floatingmattress sensibility toward the classic rock side of things. As instrumental (duh) opener \"Summer\" winds its way into \"Epilogue\", Bleeker signals the shift with some chordslamming. When the volume jumps, Bleeker begins to whinny in a register as Neil Younglike as the crispy guitar Julian Lynch jabs throughout. That said, the guitar interplay clearly comes from the gut in a way that allows for the kind of total freedom that these dudes and their many stripes of song seem to hold so dear.Lyrically, Bleeker keeps his songs in familiar territory. There's summer and there's spring, and everybody's either hanging out or remembering times when they did. On \"Prisoner of the Past\", Bleeker gets oldtimey as he sings about a friendship that's run its course. It's a really short verse before the guitar starts squaking, but in a few lines he (probably inadvertently) bottles up the hypernostalgic vibes that bleed into all of bandmates work, together or alone. It's hard not to notice all the fun that's being had messing around with the rock grid here, the ways in which you can make a trusted blueprint your own simply by stamping it so. When Real Estate jam, they do so in a way that's flush with Courtney's indie rock vision. When Mondanile runs off on his hypnogogic spirit journeys as Ducktails, he solos his way to infinity. Even though each of Bleeker's songs here are ultimately interchangeable in layout, their warmth is not. On \"Animal Tracks\", a blistering cover of a song by Vermont's Mountain Man, the Freaks sing in unison of sipping Barq's root beer and hanging out on a set of backstairs. It quickly recalls Real Estate's \"Suburban Beverage\", a song most easily identified by the chant, \"Budweiser, Sprite, do you feel alright?\" The drink may be different, but the buzz comes from the very same place. "}