{"label":" Now Again / Shadoks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15089/homepage_large.d2ea1a00.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Amanaz","title":"Africa","text":" Take a cursory look at the core of African pop music in the 1970s, and Zambia's \"Zamrock\" scene might seem a bit out of place. With township music to the south; Afrobeat, highlife, and juju going on Northwest; and soukous thriving just over the northern border, there's something bluntly Western about some of the music that came out of cities like Kitwe or Lusaka middecade. But then, considering the European postcolonial influence that still ran through the country at the time, Zamrock's fuzzedout, psych/protometal bent shouldn't be that surprising. Neither should the fact that so little of it actually came to the surface until recently; if a dedicated ethnomusicologist is going to take a trip to central Africa, it's probably not to bring back albums that sound like Blue Cheer's Vincebus Eruptum.Which brings us to a more interesting facet about Zamrock besides how out of place it initially seems: how out of time it actually sounds. Africa, the sole album by Kitwe fivepiece Amanaz, is one of the better examples of the genre's style, and how it was both behind and ahead of its era. It was released in 1975, rock's weird noman'sland period between glam and punk, but its buzzing riffs and noodly solos place it a bit closer to 1969. That said, it's hard to pinpoint their exact influences, and the ones that come to mind at first listen seem like some kind of projection: if few people in the States or Europe bought albums by the Stooges or the Velvet Underground when they first came out, what's the likelihood that they made it to a Zambian audience even five years later? Yet you get a Ron Asheton wahwah snarl in \"Making the Scene\", and there's a pretty Sterling Morrisonstyle lead guitar on \"Sunday Morning\" which, besides sharing a title with a popular Velvets song, also sounds eerily like \"Oh! Sweet Nuthin'\".But it could all just be the shared byproduct of recording straightforward, lowbudget rock in an economically depressed environment. For all their cursory musical similarities with the same bands that inspired punk rock, Amanaz were fairly unassuming, even through all the fuzztone. Unassuming in this case doesn't necessarily mean unambitious on record, they sound like a band that wanted to ply their trade in heavy rock, folkpop, and funk all at once but there's a rawness on this album that gives it a familiar garageband appeal. Rhythms shift from minimalist plodstomps one track to supple grooves the next; lead singer Keith Kabwe's voice sometimes stretches past his melodic range into an offkey flatness that would be more offputting if it didn't sound so spontaneous, and it's all recorded with a muddy fidelity that, if reminiscent of bedroom tape culture, doesn't do the music any favors by turning what could've been a wall of guitar squall into a flimsy chainlink fence.Not like much of that can be helped or even really matters, since Africa is one of those albums we should at least consider ourselves lucky to even get a chance to hear. Kabwe had retired to a life of farming by the time this album was proposed for reissue, and out of the other four band members, only guitarist Isaac Mpofu still survives. So hearing Kabwe wail, \"Lemme tell you something new/ About the history of the man/ He's got nothing to lose,\" in \"History of Man\" resonates a bit more knowing just how little was saved from the Zamrock scene for future posterity and how close to impermanence Amanaz's music actually came. "}