{"label":" Faces","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15086/homepage_large.0feb4eee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Motor City Drum Ensemble","title":"Raw Cuts, Vol. 1","text":" Everyone more or less agrees on the basic building blocks of house music soulpop vocals, R&B keyboards, disco rhythms but it seems the genre's leading lights practice it in the abstract: DJ Sprinkles' dubby ambience, OmarS's solar funk, ­Moodymann's jazz loops. It's in this context that Motor City Drum Ensemble's Raw Cuts, Vol. 1 sounds so refreshing: It is straightforward, effusive dance music spun from the most basic of elements, and done very, very well.A showcase for MCDE's eponymous label, Raw Cuts, Vol. 1 compiles three Raw Cuts 12\"'s, labelmate Jayson Brothers' debut single, and three exclusive tracks. Clearly indebted to the dance music developed in Chicago and Detroit since the mid1980s, MCDE (Danilo Plessow, from Stuttgart, Germany) aligns himself with electronic musicians deadly serious about placing music before image. Fortunately, Plessow's music isn't concerned with evasion. Open and melodic, Raw Cuts overflows with warm electric keys and cracking rhythms. Tension is massed then resolved with big, descending chords and wily guitar. Looped vocals roam in and out of the mix like shouts from the other side of the floor.Plessow, though, isn't just toying with 1980s dance nostalgia. Raw Cuts often sounds like dance music constructed by and for people who grew up listening to dusty, 1990s hiphop. His slicedup funk and interlocking slogans make \"Raw Cuts #3\" sound like a dissertationlength exploration of a J Dilla beat. \"Raw Cuts #2\" could be a clearheaded, takingtheirmedicine Avalanches jam. We associate madcap samplers like those with a certain skittishness, but Plessow's sounds are thrillingly, ingenuously focused.Brothers' contributions nearly split the album in two, both through their placement and their lingering funk. \"Monster Box\" is still electronic music, but its brawny shuffle sounds like it could be the product of a particularly amped backing band. \"All My Life\"'s sunken steps provide a base for the symphonicsoul strings.The source material ensures that Raw Cuts never veers into giddy, Technicolor party music, and there are times when these tracks feel like a really great party viewed in sepia tones. Take that as you will, but a slightly muted great party is still a great party. Raw Cuts is your first opportunity to hear the young, ultratalented Plessow on disc. His warm, everyman house music is as sturdy and livedin as his adopted hometown. "}