{"label":" Bella Union","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15097/homepage_large.95141526.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"The Kissaway Trail","title":"Sleep Mountain","text":" The Kissaway Trail's 2007 selftitled debut album had a nervy energy typical of indie rock traditionalists like British Sea Power and the Shout Out Louds. But while its ideas were hardly groundbreaking, the band at least sounded like it was trying to create, rather than simply emulate. On the Danish quintet's Sleep Mountain, that is hardly the case. From the palmmuted chords and chiming bells that open it, this album is stained to the point of unintentional parody by the Arcade Fire's influence. If you think it's a coincidence, note that there is actually an accordionfestooned, we'reallinthistogether shoutalong called (wait for it) \"Don't Wake Up\".Sleep Mountain's lack of originality is made worse by the fact that few of its songs actually go anywhere. Themes recycle themselves without providing much in the way of progression, and the few effective ideas, like the looped percussive beat in \"Painter\" or the newwave romanticism of \"Beat Your Heartbeat\", are undercooked and underrealized. And it's not like the Kissaway Trail are working under strict time constraints almost every song that makes up the record's 55minute length runs past the fourminute mark.Those who brave the record's turgid front end will be treated to Sleep Mountain's more interesting portion. The tangled guitar lines and mixedback shouts on \"Whirr of Wings\" are faintly evocative of the better parts of 1990s emo, and despite a funereal accordion making another appearance, \"New Lipstick\" hits with a broad pop appeal reminiscent of their fellow countrymen, the underrated Figurines.Unfortunately, most listeners won't make it to these brief bright spots with the band's brutal cover of Neil Young's \"Philadelphia\" blocking the way. Young's frail voice (in full effect during his performance at the 1993 Oscars) created maximum emotional impact, while the Kissaway Trail's take is overblown, with its vocals processed to oblivion and dramatic orchestral swells adding layers of hyperbole that suffocate the simple, affecting melody. Ironically, it's here that Sleep Mountain is at its most worthwhile, teaching an important lesson: Without personality, pathos doesn't mean shit. "}