{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15102/homepage_large.e7fc1ef3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Love Is All","title":"Two Thousand and Ten Injuries","text":" Two Thousand and Ten Injuries buzzes with joy. Hardly surprising, since Love Is All are one of the era's great punk bands. But wait: Should you really use the word \"punk\" to describe a band with such obvious ambitions beyond the guitar/bass/drums baseline? Because if you've heard Love Is All, you know they're hardly formalists: disco beats, postpunk sax honking, tweepop boygirl harmonies. They've got a definite sound, but within its boundaries they're thrillingly unconstrained.Listen past the kitchensink sonic clutter, though, and Two Thousand and Ten Injuries could have wooed the same teen rabble as Sam the Sham and the Trashmen. After all, the garage and psych bands of the Nuggetsera also played hamhanded organs and saxes, and pounded their way through ethnic percussion and a hundred variations on the Bo Diddley beat. And nobody would describe them as postpunk. Take TTaTI opener \"Bigger Bolder\", with its learninaminute melody and reverbragged \"bad\" production. It's the kind of fuzzy, bouncy racket you could imagine blaring from jukeboxes in the early 1960s.But then there are the lyrics. It's the lyrics that separate Love Is All from those garage rock pioneers and really connect them to the late70s DIY explosion. Love Is All singer Josephine Olausson is one of the early 21st century's great poets of romantic dissatisfaction, and like the ladies of the Slits, the Raincoats, and the Delta 5, her take on bad romance is deeply personal, beyond postpunk pastiche. Her kiddie yelp, with its innate cuddliness when she goes soft and conversational, can sound like a precocious gradeschooler obsessed with her mom's copy of Wanna Buy a Bridge?. But the sugary cuteness is a smokescreen, hiding the kind of scalpeledged selfexamination most of us like to avoid at all costs.Pay attention, and certain lines all but draw blood with their plainspoken pain: \"I know I was acting a fool/ I remember you calling me cruel/ Well that was ages ago/ Oh how I wish I could prove how I've grown.\" In Olausson's world, there are no predators and no victims. Just human beings, emotional fuckups trying to do a little better this time out, capable of lifechanging kindness and casual cruelty in the same 12month span. And accordingly, given Love Is All's mix of the unflinching and the playful, no one's left off the hook. Olausson knows that when a relationship cracks up, both parties are often to blame, and that failure was always a possibility. And still we try again, if only because it beats the alternative.That kind of romantic realism, however witty or selfdeprecating or full of nonsentimental pathos, makes Olausson's vulnerable moments all the more unexpected, and all the more effective as emotional suckerpunches. When she shouts, \"I want my head resting on a lap,\" on \"A Side in a Bed\" over the kind of lovesick new wave worthy of a John Hughes climax you know she's lived enough to know the sacrifices behind the fantasy the music both celebrates and subverts. You could say Olausson's subject is narrow. But it's the only thing that matters. Even if we're wisedup, grown up, and made a little (or a lot) cynical by life, don't we all want our heads resting on a lap? "}