{"label":" Astralwerks / Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15120/homepage_large.80d55f73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Laura Marling","title":"I Speak Because I Can","text":" Reviewing Laura Marling's Mercury Prizenominated debut album, Alas, I Cannot Swim, in 2008, I worried that the then18yearold might too quickly shed the teenage guilelessness that contributed so greatly to the record's appeal. Marling possessed an undeniable knack for writing about young love with directness and authentic feeling, but at times her pseudoprofound poetics suggested the young folkie was in too much of a hurry to be a serious adult.Clearly, I significantly underestimated Laura Marling's capabilities. Her sophomore effort, I Speak Because I Can, finds Marling, still only 20, shrugging off virtually all traces of girlishness and wideeyed charm, instead delving into darkly elemental, frequently morbid folk. And yet, astonishingly, the expected growing pains never come. To say Marling evinces wisdom beyond her years on I Speak would be a criminal understatement, considering she's created a haunting, fully flowered gem of an album despite being younger than twothirds of the Jonas Brothers.These are folkrock songs, but Marling doesn't lazily trade on it like so many other wouldbe old souls. Instead, like Fairport Convention or Nick Cave or Cat Power, she uses folk as an archetypal form to get at the essential realities of love, sex, heartbreak, and death. Sometimes she does it with heartstopping quietness, her voice dropping to conversational tones on \"Made by Maid\" and \"What He Wrote\". Just as often, Marling sets her allegories to raucous musical accompaniment, an especially impressive feat considering the calm of her debut. The bluesy jig of opener and first single \"Devil's Spoke\" might elicit a few lessthanideal comparisons with KT Tunstall, but Marling blows that kind of politely insistent stuff out of the water on the soaring, thunderous \"Rambling Man\" and the gypsyish breakdown of \"Alpha Shallows\" (which makes up for that song's momentary slip into subDylan poetic doggerel).It would have been all too easy for an album like this, so grimly fixated and coming from someone of such tender age, to be written off as the work of a morose young Romantic. However, Marling seems to have a great deal of selfawareness of her melancholic bent, lightly skewering herself on \"Goodbye England (Covered in Snow)\" for writing an \"epic letter\" to an estranged lover that's \"22 pages front and back/ But it's too good to be used.\" And yet, she's not playing dressup. She's a wholly developed artist in full command of gifts that may not yet be finished arriving. "}