{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15126/homepage_large.95f0b603.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Liars","title":"Sisterworld Reinterpretations","text":" This record is a bummer. And that's not just burnout talking, the aftereffects of one too many crappy \"allstar\" remix compilations designed to part fans from their money. Sisterworld Reinterpretations is not some cashgrab. Liars aren't that kind of band. Their music is already a fevered mash of disparate genres, perfect source material for ruthless remixing. Reinterpretations assembles arena rock celebs and artrock lifers, weirdo club kids and zonked folkies. And Liars presumably instructed these peers, pals, and heroes to attack their music with gusto.So why do the results sound so limp? The main problem is that few of these remixers seem to understand what makes Liars' music interesting in the first place. Sisterworld is an album of opposites: Brutal and weirdly tender. Pastoral and industrial. Musical and damn near unlistenable. It revels in good old fashioned tension and release, playing those opposites against one another, often within the same song. But the majority of these remixes flatten the tension and forget the release entirely. They limp (Kazu Makino) and skitter (Thom Yorke) and drone (Boyd Rice) along for three or four or five minutes. And then they end.Way too many tracks are content to float along, inoffensively, recycling familiar sounds the pretty textures of ambient or the ugliness of freeform noise. They turn some of the most bracingly physical rock of the year into avant background music. Liars are certainly in love with sound and texture, the kind of otherworldly atmosphere you can create only in the studio. But stripped back to nothing but atmosphere without Liars' love for the heavy rhythms and metal guitars Sisterworld becomes as commonplace and dismissible as any secondrate ambient album or halfhearted noise performance.In the case of, say, Melvins, this seems like missing the point to a perverse degree. Imagine the assflattening potential of a true Buzzo/Crover assault on the Liars' catalog. Instead we get plinks and plonks and feedback splutters and cheesy tape effects. The overall lack of effort on display is all the more disheartening given the general talent level involved. Tunde Adebimpe's cover (not remix) of \"Scarecrows on a Killer Slant\" sounds like a demo in preparation for a (hopefully better) fullband version: dull arrangement, sketchy backing track, lazy singing from a master. The lack of energy is almost startling when you compare it to the original, Sisterworld's most violent song.So, yes, most of Reinterpretations can be painlessly deleted. But it'd be foolish to toss out the bright spots out with the murky bathwater Atlas Sound's shimmering, Steve Reichish take on \"Here Comes All the People\" springs to mind. Reinterpretations' inconsistency is another reason to thank your god of choice for the 30second MP3 preview, still the cherrypicking downloader's best friend. "}