{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15125/homepage_large.1ff84d6a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Thomas Fehlmann","title":"Gute Luft","text":" Thomas Fehlmann's Gute Luft is both a new album and also a companion to the 24hourlong television documentary series 24h Berlin, which follows a handful of Berliners' lives over a oneday period. Fehlmann composed music for the project separately from fellow musical contributor Maurus Ronner, and much of Fehlmann's work didn't make the documentary. So the reedited and refined material presented here is more of an imagined soundtrack than a definitive one, even though a few of its tracks make regular appearances throughout the series.Due to its cutandpaste nature, Gute Luft lacks the sonic uniformity of previous Fehlmann releases, especially 2007's luxurious careerhigh Honigpumpe; this absence of a defining musical idea, where sounds and moods range from Detroit techno's insistent thump to postrock drone to ambient drift to spacey dub, when coupled with the record's 70minute runtime, is at first overwhelming. But the bigtent approach also connects the music to the film that inspired it, Berlin being a cosmopolition and culturally diverse city.Gute Luft works as a survey of everything Fehlmann does well. He's stated that while putting the album together, he \"brought in elements from tunes from my previous albums,\" and anyone with a working knowledge of his solo work (not to mention his contributions to the Orb) will recognize where he's drawing from. The spiraling build of opener \"Alles, Immer\" and the more amorphous \"Von Oben\" recall Honigpumpe's epicstuffed back half, while the hiccupped tones and static wash of \"Berliner Luftikus\" resembles that record's swampy front end.Elsewhere, the glitchy, funkstrewn techhouse of 2004's Lowflow is distantly echoed in the jittery \"Cityscape\", while the shimmering piano that closes out \"Permanent Touch\" directly lifts the same figure that opens one of Fehlmann's more notable achievements with the Orb, 2005's Okie Dokie It's the Orb on Kompakt. The most obvious forebear throughout Gute Left is Fehlmann's grooveheavy Kompakt debut, 2002's Visions of Blah, from the circular beats on \"Wasser im Fluss\" (and its counterpart, \"Fluss im Wasser\") to the heady, laserguided highs of \"Permanent Touch\". The most arresting moments come when Fehlmann explores postrock's cinematic terrain. \"Darkspark\" menacingly drones with a booming thud, while the minimalist blips that open \"Falling into Your Eyes\" dissolve into mournful horns and stretchedout orchestral sighs.These sounds are nothing new for anyone with a passing familiarity with Fehlmann's catalog, but when they're executed by someone with his ear and sense of structure, the results still feel fresh. Even the ostensibly incidental music here rewards close attention, and the whole is striking enough to make you wonder which direction Fehlmann will take next. "}