{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15124/homepage_large.b3a32eb0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"White Hills","title":"White Hills","text":" A label like \"spacerock\" deserves music that's as nuanced and limitlessfeeling as space, and spacerock deserves a band like White Hills. Not only do they add urgency to familiar psychedelic rock templates, but they pay just as close attention to the quiet moments as the raging ones each track on their selftitled Thrill Jockey debut displays a careful layering of sounds and atmospheres.The album is carefully sequenced and covers a lot of ground in seven tracks, though the propulsive \"Dead\", originally released as a single late last year, sits atop it like the flag on the peak of a mountain. While its guitars are chugging, and the intricate pummeling from Oneida drummer Kid Millions is almost exhausting, its force gets subtly distorted by the dreamy, shoegaze vocals. It's a pushpull between churning and floating, between abandon and control. \"Let the Right One In\" and \"Polvere Di Stelle\" are epics that benefit from the same attention and layering the former has a stillness to its clean guitar riff akin to Mogwai, while building patiently to a sizzling climax. On the latter, the band builds hairraising guitar drones and squealing solos under the song's detached surface.For other bands, the instrumentals between those aforementioned monsters would be a throwaway interlude; for White Hills; they're another chance to shine. These songs show the same careful layering, from the disorienting drones and campy space noises of \"Counting Sevens\" to the ambient outdoor noise of \"We Will Rise\" to the hairraising tension of \"Glacial\". These songs are just as engaging in their own right, and the album's best tracks only benefit from the buildup and context that they provide.There's hero worship here, for sure, in White Hills' nods to giants like Hawkwind and dormroomposter rock like Pink Floyd, but their scope is wide and their execution is steely and precise. Only the unabashed metal riffery of \"Three Quarters\" gets dragged down by an uninspired lyric and singing; tones and atmospheres come much more naturally to the band than theatricality. If they paid a little more care to their occasional vocal turn, White Hills could be worldconquering; as is, we'll have to settle for this merely excellent record. "}