{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15137/homepage_large.ba29db86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Mux Mool","title":"Skulltaste","text":" Brian Lindgren lends himself to \"via\"s pretty well. His homebase is BrooklynviaMinneapolis, his label affiliation is GhostlyviaMoodgadget, and his music is hiphopviaelectro or maybe viceversa; you know how lines get blurred these days. Lindgren's career as synthesizerfidgeting beatmaker Mux Mool has been defined more by sounds than styles one of those widescreen genreabsorbing approaches that's made \"bass music\" the vague but fitting descriptor of choice for instrumental posthiphop. And in keeping with the approach of a generation that finds electronic sounds to be not only natural but familiar, he tends to bring out the loose, humanistic side of waveforms and electronic keyboards in all their idiosyncrasies.That's probably one of the more cohesive ways to pin down the personality of Skulltaste, an album that's a hell of a lot harder to define in terms of scenes or categories. Floating through Boards of Canada wooziness one moment, churning out Tobaccoesque bass filth the next, Mux Mool has put together an album whose sonic multiplepersonality disorder could be aggravating if it wasn't so consistently engaging. And for all his weirdo fronting eccentric song titles, a Trongonemetal visual aesthetic, sparsely doledout party clichés and braggadocio as the only prominent lyrical content his work transcends its mild jokiness to reveal the adventurousness of a musical scholar.Every scholar needs a starting point, and Mux Mool's seems to be the watershed period where chartrap juggernauts, Native Tongues heirs, and independentasfuck iconoclasts were all pushing the boundaries of what they could do with synthesizers. So you could call this stuff hiphop if you felt like it there's a heavy pulse of clapbeats, intricate snares, and rave bass that split the difference between Fantastic, Vol. 2's warmth and the blownout dirtiness of The Cold Vein. But that's just the support structure, and it bolsters everything from lurching boombap (\"Breakfast Enthusiast\") and euphoric Dirty South bounce (\"Ballad of Gloria Featherbottom\") to the blissedout \"Morning Strut\", which features a choppy, mournful piano straight out of the 9th Wonder playbook.And while Skulltaste falls under hiphop jurisdiction if you go by Bambaataa rules, it definitely stretches way the hell out, branching into ambient downtempo, glossy disco, and neon electro. No complaints here, qualitywise \"Enceladus\" is perfect circa1999 Frenchstyle house, and the manic shudder of \"Crackers\" is the kind of hyperspeed popandlock fodder that leaves lesser 80sevoking club jams in the dust. A fluid stylistic identity isn't the worst thing to have, and when he dials down the tempo and delivers something like the warpedtape \"SFW Porn\" or the lowriderhovercar anthem \"Dandelion\", dude straight up steals your favorite chillwave band's lunch money. It's definitely exciting to hear an artist who can excel in so many different corners of beat music, but it'll really pay off once Mux Mool finishes carving out a corner of his own. "}