{"label":" Wishing Tree","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/140/homepage_large.af2de6f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Aluminium Group","title":"Happyness","text":" Aluminum Group have been playing the DL for four albums now, consistently delivering the kind of smooth, sophisticated orchestrapop that could only come from Chicago while managing to avoid the notoriety of hometown peers like The Sea & Cake. Happyness is their fifth album, and either I'm going old and developing a taste for vanilla, or the Aluminum Group continues to improve. Everything here is just so precise and fitted together so perfectly, not unlike the Ray Eames furniture line the band take their name from. Plenty of sweat went into the creation of Happyness, I'm sure, but none happened in real time. The music, melodies and arrangements have the kind effortless sheen that comes only from focused studio tinkering, and the result is a relaxing invitation to take in all the detail. One thing that makes the Aluminum Group interesting is they act like rock never happened. For John and Frank Navin, music jumped from the Bacharach/David/Warwick holy troika directly to the most melodic, newromantic end of 80s synthpop, and then took a short detour into mid90s German electronics before dropping into the timeless realm where their records happen. They'd sooner retire to the Unabomber's cabin than bring a distortion pedal into the studio, and forget gravelvoiced angst. The Navins gargle and floss before every trip to the microphone, so don't bother with Happyness unless you're ready to meet the music on its own clearly defined terms. Befitting their perfectionist streak, this is a short and compact album, their third 10song collection in a row, and it hovers just below the 40minute mark. This is allegedly the first album in a trilogy, but the thematic direction is difficult to detect. The lyrics are still rife with literary allusions, arch turns of phrase, and tales of love and betrayal, but nothing unusual knits them together as far as I can hear. I can say that you'll enjoy the songs a lot more if you find lines like, \"It's springtime in Jellystone park,\" funny (like I do). Musically, Happyness is sparer than the recent work. If Pelo was an electronic excursion and Pedals found Aluminum Group indulging in acoustic chamber pop with Jim O'Rourke at the controls, Happyness incorporates hints of both approaches but tones the backing down. \"Kisses\" illustrates nicely the integrated approach, as a ringing synth patch forms the basis of the tune, but accents and rhythmic thrust are provided by a coolasasnowcone muted trumpet. Despite impressive electronic accents, the arrangement seems designed for the kind of mid60s crowd that agreed with Frank Sinatra about Elvis Presley. Whatever you think about the Aluminum Group's mad reverence for the AM radio pop of '65'74, there's no denying the strength of these melodies, and this is why we have to take these guys seriously. These are damn good songs. Like Lord Bacharach, the Navins know how to string together a verse, bridge and chorus, each with ample melody to power its own tune (\"Pop\" here is particularly impressive in this respect.) Hear most of these songs a few times and you'll feel like you've known them all your life. And if you find yourself in the mood for some smart pop music that hits all the right notes, you could do a lot worse. "}