{"label":" True Panther","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15149/homepage_large.e8023b9f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Janka Nabay","title":"Bubu King","text":" Many of us know Sierra Leone for one thing: diamonds. Specifically, \"blood\" or \"conflict\" diamonds, gems mined by some of the world's poorest people and subsequently used to fund warfare that further endangers those impoverished individuals. Thanks to a song by Kanye West and a film starring Leo DiCaprio, Western audiences have recently been widely exposed to horrors taking place in Sierra Leone since the early 1990s. But voices originating from the country itself, addressing its struggles and disseminating its unique national character, have been in short supply in the West.Musically, Sierra Leone likewise hasn't established a global presence on par with West African neighbors like Nigeria and Mali. Enter Janka Nabay, a Sierra Leone native who escaped the country during the bloody 90s and is now bringing its music to new ears as a transplanted resident of Philadelphia. Specifically, the sound Nabay makes is known as bubu music, a genre rooted in the rhythms of funeral processions conducted by the Muslim Temne people of the country's northwest region. Bubu is traditionally produced by large groups of players blowing on bamboo shoots, accompanied by shakers, triangles, and thudding pulsebeats pounded out on large wooden boxes. Nabay severely strips down this setup while preserving its teeming twitchiness, using keyboards and carburetor pipes to create a minimal but undeniably kinetic brand of music that he weds to socially conscious lyrics.Bubu King is an EP of four songs Nabay recorded before departing Sierra Leone and represents the firstever commercial release of bubu music in the West. Considering these tracks have been sitting in the can for about 15 years, the frequent modernity of their sound is remarkable, starting with the opener, \"Top Sul Bah\", which pairs rattling percussion with dreamy synthesized tones. Of course, Nabay makes such minimalism all his own with the chanting intonations he lays atop the beat the song's title translates as \"What's Going On\", and that's exactly what Nabay wishes to convey. The succeeding track, \"Eh Congo\", ratchets up the politicized content with references to John Kennedy and allusions to the humanitarian influx of wheat and clothing, though the music's repetitive pipe pattern ultimately drags over the song's five minutes.More sonically successful and even more socially charged, \"Good Governance\" boasts a busily skittering beat intermittently supplemented with a wonderful descending keyboard melody, with lyrics (in English) that call earnestly but admirably for democracy bolstered by the participation of women. Bubu King then closes with the lovely but anomalous \"De Debul\", a beautiful guitarladen track that seems much more in line with the melodic West African stuff we in the West have been devouring with particular gusto in recent years. It's a nice tune, but a touch less distinctive. Here's hoping this EP inspires Nabay to share more of Sierra Leone's uniquely engaging bubu music down the road. "}