{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15158/homepage_large.7efe1746.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"The Bundles","title":"The Bundles","text":" Geekfolk mainstays Kimya Dawson and Jeffrey Lewis met about a decade ago, as Dawson's Moldy Peaches were making their mark and just before Lewis' esteemed debut LP. They wrote a handful of songs together; several appeared on 2002's limitedrun \"antifolk\" compilation AFNY Collaborations, Vol. 1, but they've largely gone unheard, if not unremembered. Almost 10 years later, we have The Bundles, a collection of tunes crafted on their first meeting, fleshed out with a few recent stragglers. The initial batch of songs comes from a particularly fertile, formative period for both songwriters: Lewis' early stuff is easily his most distinct, and Dawson's early00s work with Adam Green is among her most beloved. The two seem like a good pair, sharing a bunch of fans, a kooky worldview, and a fondness for loose chords and uneasy answers. But listening to The Bundles, one wonders why they felt these songs were due for a resurrection.As with most bursts of creative energy, The Bundles starts out strong; opener \"A Common Chorus\" has a Moldy Peachesstyle twosongsatonce verse that ambles toward the titular hook. Dawson's wizened warble and Lewis' worldweariness sit comfortably beside each other, and when they overlap for the tune's big payoff, it's nearly as satisfying as anything in either's vast catalog. But, as always, these two proudly display (and sometimes flaunt) their flaws, and The Bundles seems to amplify them. The mostly Lewisled \"Shamrock Glamrock\" is dour and unfocused, a sharp shift in tone from the laughs they'd been having on previous tracks, and the hokey bluespunk of \"Ishalicious\" is a genre experiment that thankfully neither has replicated since. Dawson's budding ability to flip something strange into something strangely poignant hadn't fully formed yet, so a lot of these tunes lean awfully hard on nonsense. The lovely \"Over the Moon\", with its appeal to community and rousing choral closeout, is another winner, but there's little else to recommend in the middle of the record; the tunes feel limp and halffinished, the lyrics disjointed and drab, the two songsmiths often writing over, not with, each other.Fans of Lewis or Dawson aren't gonna care much that this isn't holy grail stuff; if you've been following either, you're used to a little unevenness. But the true superfans have likely heard the best of these tunes before, on the AFNY comp save rousing closer \"Be Yourself\" and the Juno set may not know what to make of Dawson at her most unbridled, to say nothing of Lewis' eagerEeyore routine. If you never gave a hoot about either, 40 uneven minutes of frayed chords and poop jokes probably won't change that. Both have done and are doing better work, and while the bulidup to The Bundles makes for a neat story, it reads a little better without this final chapter. "}