{"label":" Southern","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1399/homepage_large.49e5130e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Check Engine","title":"Check Engine","text":" Vocalists are in the privileged position within the common rock band structure. They have the unique ability to ruin an otherwise good band all by themselves. Don't agree? When's the last time you were downright annoyed by a guitarist, drummer or bassist not by their personality, but by their playing? Unless you subscribe to Bass Player magazine, I'm guessing this doesn't happen very often. The musicianship might be uninspired or mediocre, but rarely does it singlehandedly ruin a band. Vocalists are another story all together. This is basically the situation between me and Check Engine's selftitled debut: enjoy the music, can hardly stand the lyrics and singing. It's like King Crimson all over again. Robert Fripp & Co. have never been able to find a suitable vocalist or lyricist. As a consequence, their two best albums are easily Red and Lark's Tongue in Aspic, two albums mostly devoid of lyrics. And actually, Check Engine's brand of ultraprecise, frenetic guitar noodling strongly suggests a heavy Crimson presence in the band's collective record stash. A lot of early Zappa, too; some of these melodies are straight off of Hot Rats. It's artrock focused through the lens of late 70s postpunk. Before I get too far ahead of myself, I should mention that Check Engine is an offshoot of the Chicagobased mathrock band Sweep the Leg Johnny, featuring saxophonist/vocalist Steve Sostak and guitarist Chris Daly. In fact, if I didn't know any better, I would think this was Sweep the Leg Johnny. There are differences, but it's nothing too pronounced. Sostak's alto sax still holds major sway over the proceedings, but with two guitars and two singers going at it as well, there's enough happening in the high range to keep ears busy wandering down the interlocking melody lines as if in a garden of forking paths. That said, the rhythm section is Check Engine's real strength. After the first few times through this album, I found myself listening almost exclusively to the drums and bass. In terms of young rock drummers, Brian Wnukowski's drumming is the next best thing to the Dismemberment Plan's Joe Easley. And Wnukowski's way of interacting with bassist Paul Joyce is nothing short of exhilarating. Not that the other elements are all lace and frills, but after the first few seconds of the brief and blistering album opener, \"Where's my Social Worker?,\" it becomes apparent that Check Engine build their songs from the rhythm section up, which they are smart to do they know where their bread is buttered. It gives the music a visceral, gritty, and almost bluesy feel despite the fact that the guys seem incapable of playing in strict 4/4 time. Which, of course, brings us to the vocals. As I've said, they're not so hot. Try as I might, I just couldn't get around them. I mean, if you're going to be vague, at least use words that sound cool together. Lines like, \"An entire world waits/ In figures and lines/ For a graceless kind of lover,\" from \"She Asked Me Some Questions and I Answered Them,\" aren't very evocative. And, \"But there its advantages end/ Before we had any time to send any pictures of our game faces,\" from \"Don't Make Friends with Salad,\" is just plain clunky. (Strangely enough, I like the song titles a lot, but they seem to have little relation to the lyrics of each song. And yes, the latter title is a \"Simpsons\" reference in case you're wondering.) In effect, Check Engine has two lead singers one a little more lead than the other but they both sing with such overthetop earnestness that it seems like they're trying to compensate for the plain bad lyrics (\"But we really mean it!!!\"). I'm sorry, but sheer force of will just isn't enough in this case. In the grand scheme of things, the lyrics and singing aren't as annoying on the same scale as, say, those of Enrique Iglesias, but they do heavily detract from an otherwise well conceived and executed collection of songs. "}