{"label":" Luaka Bop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15160/homepage_large.43e9e055.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Javelin","title":"No Mas","text":" Even blog bands need an iconic image, and Javelin hit the interwebs with an especially effective one a mountain of painted boomboxes, fronting the Brooklyn duo's table of samplers, turntables, drumpads, and various other misfit musical toys. Not only did it look pretty boss as a jpeg, it also was pretty accurate visual shorthand for their sound: Less turntablism, more an FM tuner shoulderjostling between lowwatt stations playing electro, funk, world music, and early hiphop.Javelin first parceled out that unique approach with a series of mixes and singles, most of which were hazy and fidelitychallenged enough for people to lump them in with chillwave. But Javelin's genetic code seemed more early80s than late60s, and the sound quality seemed like more of a moodsetter than a slapdash affectation. On Jamz n Jemz, Tom van Buskirk and George Langford crafted a cohesive sound collage more in step with the dense travelogues of the Avalanches than any of their basementelectronic peers.So it actually made sense when musical travel agency Luaka Bop signed them up for their proper debut, No Mas. By the sound of the record, Luaka Bop also gave Javelin a good, long bath, exfoliating away the crackles and hiss and distilling the songs from their interstitial surroundings. The fully groomed result is a segmented hybrid of semirevised previously released tracks and new music that reveals the duo as a far less exotic product than early scouting may have suggested. \"Vibrationz\" is still a killer single, but other familiar tunes sound adrift when isolated from a broader mix, such as the 70s montage sequence \"The Merkin Jerk\", or the glitchhop of \"Susie Cues\". Attempts to makeover old tracks are a mixed bag, as the sunny \"Intervales Theme\" holds up at double the length, while adding vocals to previously instrumental \"Mossy Woodland\" is an awkward move.Meanwhile, Javelin's new material fits in well alongside older tracks without doing much to expand the duo's palate. \"Tell Me What Will I Be?\" is a funk period piece that would turn the DapKings green, \"On It on It\" summons up all the right robotleg flashbacks, and \"Shadow Heart\" has a cinematic, psychedelic sweep that evades being pinned down as just one particular homage. If songs like the overdone retro of \"Moscow 1980\" and the directionless soul jam \"Dep\" are less memorable, well, at least they might have a second life as puzzle pieces in a future Javelin collage.In the end No Mas can't top those longer mixes, which remain van Buskirk and Langford at their sampleheavy, genretrotting finest. Dressed up and chopped into discrete chunks, Javelin suddenly bear a close resemblance to the Go! Team skilled peddlers of vintage party jams, but with a narrow range. Javelin's best tracks may hold up under professional production in a year where many a group's cassettetape flaws will likely sabotage similar leaps, but trading in their boombox for a proper stereo isn't necessarily an upgrade. "}