{"label":" Nonesuch / Todomundo","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15153/homepage_large.77d389d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"David Byrne / Fatboy Slim","title":"Here Lies Love","text":" Here Lies Love should have been truly great. Or at least truly awful. A 2xCD album, with 22 guest vocalists, devoted to the life, loves, and sartorial obsessions of the infamous Imelda Marcos, wife of equally infamous Filipino despot Ferdinand Marcos? Masterminded by two of music's most inventive nerds David Byrne and Fatboy Slim? Oddball subject, highprofile collaborators, unchecked ambition: a combination that should guarantee either a leftfield classic or a cringeinducing misstep. A grand or gaudy approach that fits the garish, romantic, obsessive arc of its heroine's life.Instead we get efficient dancepop and tropicaltinged adult alternative given the routinized sheen of Broadway showtunes. For a few songs the combination's curious enough to maintain semipassive interest. Persevere through all 22 tunes, and you'll find an EP's worth of keepers, mostly thanks to strong performances by the usual suspects: Róisín Murphy transforming a justfunkyenough disco pastiche into another of her patented conversational comeons; Sharon Jones as New Jack Swingera rentadiva. But less than an hour in, the album's initially exquisitesounding production starts to feel weirdly oppressive. It smothers the playfulness and rough edges of Byrne and Slim's respective obsessions BahiameetsBacharach romanticism and shamelessly big beats in a layer of icky showbiz schmaltz.Imagine a Vegas producer staging an allstar tribute to Caetano Veloso, or the Lawrence Welk band rearranging the Jam and Lewis songbook. Or maybe just imagine two oddball pop geniuses choosing to collaborate on a pet project in the waning days of the album era. But once in the studio, the pair contracts some kind of airborne softrock virus. Thus infected, they can only manage to write the kind of unthreatening but unfailingly pleasant filler designed to pad out department store playlists when programmers run out of Train songs. How else to explain the weakest songs on Here Lies Love, especially the second half of disc one? And even they're not bad, per se, unless the very idea of bland competence offends you.Byrne and Slim never misstep here, but they also never surprise. At best you may wind up distantly admiring their craftsmanship. But if musicians are going for scale and spectacle and a project like this all but demands it shouldn't they, like, go for it? True, most overlong and overambitious concept albums wind up total trainwrecks, but at least then they're sorta enjoyable for it. But like a middling 1,000 page novel, or a threehour cinematic epic that's just kind of okay, a competent 90minute minimusical serves only one purpose: To reinforce the precious finitude of human life. Devote an hourandahalf to this? Why? You could listen to Remain in Light twice with time to spare. Or just play \"The Rockafeller Skank\" 13 times in a row. "}