{"label":" Kanine","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15178/homepage_large.9c0aa01d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Blind Man's Colour","title":"Wooden Blankets EP","text":" Blind Man's Colour are getting there. These two Florida youngsters are shedding influences and playing to strengths. They're also smartly packaging their ideas at an unusually brisk pace their Wooden Blankets EP arrives less than a year after their debut, Season Dreaming. They'd still do well to match their shimmering synthpop textures with a more dazzling group of tunes, but their hues have intensified and their patterns grown more complex, which counts as significant progress for a freshfaced ambientpop band such as this.Of course, my colleague Joe Colly's assertion in his review of Season Dreaming that BMC \"owes everything to Animal Collective\" still has more than a ring of truth to it. The songs on Wooden Blankets are all enveloped in a damp murk, a sharp contrast from Season Dreaming's sunkissed feel; the effect is not unlike Strawberry Jam's fizzy \"#1\", and just as with the AC track, tunes here take a backseat to texture. But they've opted to trade Feelsera shiftiness for a mellower, sparkly Person Pitch pastiche, and the resulting textures are richer, more vivid, and far prettier. There's evidence of a few more trips to the record store, too; the synths have a blocky Brian Eno quality, the drift floats like spacey Phaedraera Tangerine Dream, and the alternately swooping and soporific vocals smack of Frog Eyes' Carey Mercer and Deerhunter's Bradford Cox, respectively.The challenge BMC still don't seem quite up to is matching these impressive textures to songs you can carry with you once they're finished something most of their influences took years to manage. These melodies don't put up much of a fight through the dense haze on display here, and when they do as on mantralike closer \"Sleeping Bag\" they lose much of the sonic richness that seems at the moment like their best asset. That balance between tune and texture isn't an easy one to strike, and they still need to work on the former; these songs do feel more distinctly theirs, but they still don't quite have the gestures of songwriting down well enough to get away with being quite this gestural as songsmiths, and no amount of sonic wallpapering can cover over the holes in these tunes. But Wooden Blankets is a series of small successes, with evidence of progress and promise; they may still have a ways to go, but it's plain as day which way they're headed. "}