{"label":" Decca","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15203/homepage_large.c2dfe480.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Rufus Wainwright","title":"All Days are Nights: Song for Lulu","text":" Rufus Wainwright seems only fitfully interested in being a pop musician. That's certainly his prerogative, but it's not great for those who love the things he can do with a fourminute tune. Throughout his admirable yet frustrating career, Wainwright's assorted passions (for opera, for theatre, for Judy Garland) have led his music down paths that were often more intriguing in theory than execution. He should be lauded for allowing nothing to dictate his artistic choices, with the understanding that such boldness opens him up for criticism when he bites off more than he can chew.However, the real danger with an artist who listens solely to his own muse is that he'll cut off the outside world, making music that can't be related to or enjoyed by anyone but himself. Wainwright gets closer than ever to that vanishing point of selfabsorption on his latest effort, All Days Are Nights: Songs for Lulu. The only things you hear on the album are Wainwright's voice and his piano, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. The problem is that he wants you to luxuriate in both when it's far more likely you'll feel like you're drowning, given how rarely Wainwright buoys the listener with an actual melody or memorable lyric.Wainwright's biography is fascinating child of famed folk singers Loudon Wainwright III and the recently departed Kate McGarrigle, an openly gay performer who's been an outspoken social activist yet also battled serious addictions. Still, it's a bit much for Wainwright to ask his listeners to follow as he enumerates Big Apple landmarks (\"Who Are You New York?\") or sings for six minutes in French (\"Les feux d'artifice t'appellent\") or transcribes a phone conversation with his singersongwriter sister (\"Martha\"). This is particularly true if our only accompaniment is going to be plodding piano chords and mooning vocals (a symptom that's stretched to almosthilarious extremes on \"Zebulon\" when Wainwright resorts to sounding the same single piano note several times in succession).Even when the words are giftwrapped for him, however, Wainwright struggles. Three of the album's songs find him setting music to Shakespeare sonnets, but only his arrangement of \"Sonnet 20\", often held up as proof of the Bard's homosexuality, manages to avoid being a droning mess that actually saps power from those legendary verses. As for the most salvageable of the songs that are solely Wainwright's own, \"The Dream\" is admittedly movingly sung, but the only genuine keeper is \"True Loves\", a heartbreaking tune about how happy lovers make lonely people feel miserable that's so universal in sentiment it feels like a modernday standard. Something anyone can enjoy imagine that. "}