{"label":" Big Dada","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15202/homepage_large.303b245e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"The Infesticons","title":"Bedford Park","text":" In 2000, back when the Black Eyed Peas were merely a poor man's Jurassic 5 and Sean Combs was still Puffy, underground hiphop agitator Mike Ladd gathered up an army of artrap cohorts to create the Infesticons. Their album Gun Hill Road, a concept record about a group of bboy foot soldiers defending their Brooklyn turf against the encroachments of a horde of \"jiggy\" invaders (remember that pejorative?), was a shining example of how accessibly avantgarde indie rap could be at the turn of the millennium, all engaging logorrhea flow and deathjazz beats. Round two of the stated Infesticons trilogy was given over to their enemies/alter egos the Majesticons, whose 2003 Beauty Party was a parody of gentrified hustler culture drenched in curdled Moët. As highconcept threepart genredeconstruction epics went, this war seemed like it'd build to a cataclysmic conclusion on the final album.Just one problem: that final album has arrived seven full years after that last Majesticons salvo, and an entire decade after the whole scuffle began. Beauty Party was initially branded as a goof on chart rap. But after all this time, its crass, synthesized clubrap buzz sounds whether by design or accident like a sharp dissection of socalled hipster rap, pseudoDiplo rather than mockDiddy. And that war was waged what seems like ages ago. The outro track of Bedford Park practically admits as much, a dazed Ladd emerging from the rubble to the shellshocked realization that \"I don't even think they remember... there ain't even underground hip hop or Top 40 hip hop no more, it's just bright rainbow and neon shit everywhere. Electro rap! I'm so fucking lost.\"So with the realworld inspirations of the Infesticons trilogy warped in ways few would have imagined back when Gun Hill Road dropped, Bedford Park has to shift focus a bit. And by \"shift,\" I mean \"lose\": despite the name on the cover and the occasional reminder that there's some kind of conflict going, this album has a lot more thematically in common with Ladd's personal, idiosyncratic work on albums like Nostalgialator and Father Divine. Concerns over hiphop's tenuous grasp on reality and the commodification of culture crop up occasionally, and \"Give Em Anthem\" does a good job cracking wise about American Apparel fashion, famousandbroke aspirations, and 1980s cartoon nostalgia. But there's more detailed narratives of relationship issues than anything having to do with the struggle between hiphop as art and rap as commerce. And Ladd, along with MC collaborators Juice Aleem and Creature, seems to have left his usual tightlywoven language at the door; lyrics here lean heavily on strippeddown, hookheavy repetition and entrylevel metaphors.But going into this album without much prior knowledge of Ladd's back catalog or the Infesticons mythos might cast it in a better light. If Bedford Park is meant to have an undercurrent of sly metacommentary on the indiepunk relationship with hiphop, it does a standup job of it, ricocheting from new wave/blog house tweaks to tense TV on the Radio harmonizing to wonky bass spasms, all the way to acoustic guitardriven antifolk. None of it really coheres into anything in particular, but the songs sound comfortable in their genrehopping skins. And in the end, maybe it's that loosely rooted yet roughly sincere eclecticism that stands as the real end result of all the fighting that's gone down before. That aforementioned outro track concludes with Ladd surveying the brightly colored debris in front of him and admitting \"I don't mind it. I feel kinda funny…\" before cracking up. Just like the rest of the album, it's hard to tell if the Infesticons are proposing armistice or simply admitting defeat. "}