{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15204/homepage_large.164aca6a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Kurupt","title":"Streelights","text":" California rapper Kurupt plays well with others. Never begrudging his role as a righthand man, he's always seemed pleased just to be in the fold. One of the more recognizable characters in the past 20 years of West Coast hiphop, Kurupt earned his stripes as a snarling, smokedout, dangerously funny guy who bears a cross that the best character actors do: Often responsible for his projects' juiciest moments (nearly all of his tracks on Dre's 2001), he's soon resigned to the background.After last year's lauded BlaQKout, a teamup with underground legend DJ Quik, Kurupt seemed primed for a latecareer renaissance, so long as he made the right alliances. Unfortunately, partnering with producer Terrace Martin wasn't a good choice. On paper it should have worked upandcomer Martin is bestknown for his work with Kurupt's friend and contemporary Snoop Dogg. But Martin, who produced all but one cut here (the terrific Pete Rockhelmed \"Yessir), is Streetlights' biggest weakness; he offers a selection of flat songs that ultimately come across as stale. Kurupt is left to make the most of what he has to work with, often trying uncomfortably to force a strong clubbanger or aggressively spun street tale with little to fill out the weaker parts.Martin has a few strong shots in the mix \"I'm Drunk\" feels like an updated Compton houseparty jam, evoking another of Kurupt's scenestealing moments from 2001 (\"Let's Get High\"), and \"I'm the Man\" reins things in a little and gives Kurupt the space he needs to ruminate. But the missteps overshadow the positive notes in ways that are too obvious to ignore. Martin plunders the most pallid moments of the hyphy movement on single \"I'm Burnt\" (which pops up again in remix form later even though hearing it once was more than enough) and later on \"Face Down\", its murderous theme rendered borderline comical in light of its thin, cheesy bounce. Despite the album's title (Kurupt has described it as a depiction of  street life from the pointofview of a streetlight), Martin pushes the club appeal, but with material that feels previously discarded or simply phonedin.While there are bits of great humor and wordplay scattered throughout (occasionally spat out in dizzying double time), the foggedover choruses, toughguy posturing (\"In Gotti We Trust\"), and spurts of disquieting misogyny (\"Scrape\") feel like too much padding. On \"Questions\", reminiscent of Dre's dirty laundryairing \"What's the Difference\", Kurupt addresses a series of inquiries his involvement with Suge Knight and, of course, \"Is he gonna be on Detox?\" and answers not a single one of them, leaving the whole thing hanging. It's a shame because it would be interesting to hear Kurupt's take on these issues, but it's a good way to describe Streetlights on the whole: promising, sometimes intriguing, but ultimately unavailable for comment. "}