{"label":" Soft Abuse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15220/homepage_large.37f9e25d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Ulaan Khol","title":"III","text":" It's hard not to be jealous of Steven R. Smith. He's played such a variety of styles woodsy atmospheres with Thuja, psychrock with Mirza, folk experiments as Hala Strana that his consistency seems unfair. He's the kind of guy who might wake up one day, thumb drowsily through his record collection and think, \"I'm in the mood for Neil Young, Fushitsusha, and Popol Vuh... maybe I'll start a project that sounds like the way I hear all of them together in my head.\" In fact, it sounds like he did Ulaan Khol, his latest solo venture, makes lonely, feedbacksmeared instrumentals, with a classic aura that feels like an archeological discovery. Now I'm even more jealous.III follows 2008's I and II, concluding a \"maximalist threepart suite\" that Smith calls \"Ceremony\". This may not be the best installment, but it's the most diverse and engaging. That's due to Smith's adding more bass and drums to his guitar journeys, as well as injecting more melody into his noisy haze. There are still lots of plaintive guitaronly pieces, rightly compared in press materials to the desolate reverb of Neil Young's Dead Man soundtrack. But the cuts that hit hardest have a rock thrust, like elongated psych breaks liberated from the shackles of versechorusverse.Take track two (all the pieces here are untitled), which follows the album's dark opener with a thundering allout groove. It recalls two great underground psych/noise outfits, Japan's Marble Sheep and Portland's Davis Redford Triad, and the way they make a wandering guitar jam feel as uplifting as a hotair balloon ride. But the track also has an accessibility that reaches overground into the territory of Jimi Hendrix's woolier explorations. Its songlike structure echoes through the rest of the album, so that even noisier, drumless pieces take on traceable shapes.Still, the heart of this project is solo guitar journeys, and III ends with Ulaan Khol's longest one a 10minute stretch of strumming that folds slowly into dissonance. It's hypnotic and immersive, but if you prefer clarity to volume, you might find it more disorienting than soothing. An album of only those treks would probably appeal solely to diehards, but the \"Ceremony\" trilogy is wider than that. Smith has shaped his guitar essays into something more tangible and, as a result, more communicative. "}