{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15222/homepage_large.6ee6dcae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Omar Khorshid","title":"Guitar El Chark: Guitar of the Orient","text":" Oum Kalthoum, Abdel Halim Hafez, Farid Al Atrache, and Mohamed Abdel Wahab are often referred to as the \"four greats\" of Arabic music. Al Atrache was Syrian, the rest were Egyptian, and all four are genuine legends in the Arabspeaking world, their music still widely played and loved. Omar Khorshid played guitar in the orchestras of two of them. He made his first foray into professional music in the mid60s, playing in one of the Arab world's first beat groups, Les Petit Chats, and in 1968, Hafez saw them perform in Alexandria, Egypt, and asked Khorshid to join his group. Hafez worked at the time with innovative composer Baligh Hamdi, and with Khorshid in the band, they made some amazing recordings that broadened the scope of Egyptian orchestral pop music.Khorshid eventually found himself playing guitar for Oum Kalthoum, perhaps the most beloved singer the Arab world has ever had playing in her orchestra was the height of prestige, and to say she's still loved is a bit like saying people still think the Beatles are pretty okay. Khorshid's guitar became a part of pop landscape in the Arab world, which was centered on Egypt and Lebanon. When he moved to Lebanon in 1973, Beirut was as yet untouched by the wars that would unravel its reputation as one of the world's most cosmopolitan, vibrant cities, and Khorshid was already a true giant. The music he made in Lebanon from 1973 to 1977 is the source for Guitar El Chark, the first official compilation of his work under his own name to be released in the West.Sublime Frequencies has pulled out all the stops, issuing a gorgeous double vinyl set with a short biography in the gatefold and almost 90 minutes of music. It's a long overdue treatment for an enormously creative and vital talent. Khorshid fused the techniques of traditional Arabic oud players with Western sounds and exposing the eastern Mediterranean roots of American surf guitar music in the process. The recordings here, drawn from soundtracks and albums including a few Khorshid records that were marketed in the West under the exotica/bellydance banner show a restless desire to experiment with musical technologies just finding their way to Beirut at the time.The first song I ever heard by Khorshid was his ripping outer space surf rendition of Farid Al Atrache's classic \"Hebbina Hebbina\", which is included here with new remastering it's a perfect encapsulation of what made his sound so interesting and has long sent exotica buffs searching for his albums. The twitching traditional rhythms, garagey organ, and Space Age guitar sound are instantly appealing, and the relative novelty for Western listeners is quickly transcended by the tunefulness and astounding musicianship of the playing. Also included is one of Khorshid's own versions of \"Enta Omri\", a song composed by Mohamed Abdel Wahab that became one of Oum Kalthoum's bestloved hits. Khorshid's take is sinewy and agile, moving boldly through a song that nearly everyone in Khorshid's audience would have known and capturing a piece of it for himself.The compilation closes with a record company promo spot for one of Khorshid's albums that curiously uses a version of the theme from the James Bond film You Only Live Twice as its backing music, and in many ways, it's an oddly melancholy end to the set. It's a brief, stark glimpse of the cultural bleed that made the rest of this music possible, and in fact there's a \"what might have been\" cloud that hangs over this music today. What if the West and Middle East had given in to our fascination with each other instead of our suspicion of one another?Khorshid's own life may have ended early because of the conflicts that still plague us today: He left Lebanon in 1976 to escape the war and returned to Egypt after some time in Syria. When Egyptian President Anwar Sadat traveled to Washington to sign a peace treaty with Israel in 1977, Khorshid came along. He and Jewish violinist Yehudi Menuhin performed together to mark the occasion, and many extremists never forgave him. Khorshid was just 36 and had already survived a few assassination attempts when he died in a suspicious car crash, a few months before Sadat himself was murdered. While we never got to hear where Khorshid might have taken his music had he lived, he had already taken it plenty of interesting places before his death. "}