{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15226/homepage_large.1f35d647.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Avi Buffalo","title":"Avi Buffalo","text":" The ladies and gentlemen of Avi Buffalo are all about 19, and you might say they do a good job acting their age; they're ponderous but not brooding, strident yet skeptical, and really, really horny. As his band saunters around him, frontlad Avigdor ZahnerIsenberg finds himself \"lost in your summer cum\" and puzzles over mortality: \"Too much time to die,\" he and bandmate Rebecca Coleman sing in unison, \"and I don't wanna die.\" His voice, never too far from a crack, lends that riff on impermanence the same weight as his takes on young lust.For all their ageappropriate fumbling, Avi Buffalo seem graceful beyond their years as songwriters. As many starkly intimate moments as they muster, a few of their tunes unfurl into nearepic lengths, gallantly breezing through moods and motifs. Snatches of Wilco's easy early2000s amble, Built to Spill's curly fretwork, and Shinsy shuffle turn up everywhere here, occasionally all at once. The sound is tangled they take the scenic route to their best ideas but each move feels carefully considered. Spend enough time unspooling the tunes, and little pockets in these compositions start to open up, revealing an uncommon regard for detail and in the case of ZahnerIsenberg's guitar flittering a rather deft musicianship.All that helps pass off their sweet, redolent, and pretty damn twee lyrical outlook; \"I've never written a love song,\" ZahnerIsenberg sings several love songs deep into the album, later noting, \"but I will for you,\" and that plus a good bit of dirty talk, literal and otherwise constitutes their worldview at the moment. But what might come across as merely cutesy from another writer feels deeply felt and finely tuned here; lots of lovesick teenager wannabes dumb it down, but he smarts it up, throwing lots of rich images and headstrong proclamations into his notalwayssweet nothings. It's not so much diaristic as it is the kind of tooforwardinhindsight shit you say to someone you're trying to get with at that age; it can be awkward, but it's an awkwardness he seems oddly comfortable with.And Avi Buffalo have every reason to be sure of themselves; this sneakily complex, unsappily sentimental, thoughtfully naïve debut is a very early success. There might be some moments that wander a bit off course, a few solos that could've wound down a minute early, or a couple of lyrics a tad too ribald for their starlit surroundings. But to be young is to be a bit clumsy sometimes, after all. And Avi Buffalo are, as they'll remind you, young yet. "}