{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15240/homepage_large.9349dbcf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Gayngs","title":"Relayted","text":" Gripe about hipster irony all you want, but was there ever any point when the indie/punk underground wasn't dealing in smartassed selfparody? There have always been artists who find humor in making certain styles into grotesque caricatures and using them to point out the absurdity, or greatness, in a genre. The punchline works best when the setup's serious enough to work without it. The problem of irony comes when you're dealing with a setup that most people will probably mistake for the punchline itself.And once you've been tipped to the tone of Relayted, the debut album from the twodozenplusmember supergroup Gayngs, well, good luck coming to terms with the slowjam softrock pastiche that's just been dropped on you. Air had a tricky enough sell of it 12 years ago when they tried to convince indie kids that Mooglounge AM pop was cool. And if the jetset 1970s fromage of Moon Safari was a tricky kind of chic, imagine it dialed a decade ahead into mid80s Lite FM fare. If you're not rolling your eyes yet, be patient: You have about 28 seconds before the album's first Skinemax saxophone wail.But Gayngs take this stuff seriously, and if you concentrate really hard, maybe you could, too. It helps that pretty much everybody involved in the band has bona fides, whether in Minneapolis' electropop scene (brainchild Ryan Olson of Digitata; Zack Coulter and Adam Hurlburt of Solid Gold; members of Lookbook) or North Carolina folkrock (the Rosebuds' Ivan Howard; all three members of Megafaun). That elbowribbing saxophone actually comes courtesy of Michael Lewis, from muchlauded Twin Cities jazz trio Happy Apple. And there are a lot of strong voices that fade in and out of this thing, too. P.O.S. absolutely kills it on the tense, PendergrassgonePortishead slowboil of \"No Sweat\", with fellow Doomtree alumna Dessa providing an almost subliminal background counterpoint. And the distant, breathy vocal that sounds like it's emanating from the sunsethued beach of some early Michael Mann film makes leadoff track \"The Gaudy Side of Town\" sound disarmingly earnest. That's Justin Vernon of Bon Iver. Dude apparently listens to Bone Thugs, go figure.So we're looking at a lot of seriousartist personnel for an album that might seem pretty conceptually farcical otherwise. And while some aspects of this album seem at least somewhat detrimentally tongueincheek word has it that every track was recorded at 69 BPM, which does leaden the energy levels a bit Relayted doesn't stumble strictly because of its softrock and indiesoul leanings. Far from it: The original core trio of Olson, Coulter, and Hurlburt envisioned some kind of tribute to the legacy of 10cc, which explains all the \"I'm Not in Love\" vocal reverb and a straightfaced cover of 10cc vets Godley & Creme's 1985 single \"Cry\". And it sounds credible, even when it's transmuted into jittery, guitaraddled new wave (\"Faded High\") or Blade Runnerish souljazz (\"Ride\"). It's only when the extended etherfrolic vibe is rattled by some misplaced shortandsharp poplength numbers the midalbum stretch of \"False Bottom\", \"The Beatdown\", and \"Crystal Rope\" skews a bit too forceful that the seams actually start to show.So Relayted is both better than it had any right to be, given the concept, and about as good as you could expect from the musicians involved. It has all the signs of a gag that got out of hand three guys from Minneapolis bantering about softrock namedrops who eventually found themselves surrounded by enough smart, likeminded musicians that it somehow wound up destined to sound at least somewhat heartfelt. It's a joke told in reverse, with a potentially cheesy setup that often comes with a surprisingly poignant payoff. Go into this expecting irony, and it might turn your stomach. Take it sincerely, and it'll hit you about a foot higher. "}