{"label":" Sound of a Handshake","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15239/homepage_large.4b173c21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Bobby and Blumm","title":"A Little Big","text":" The Berlinbased musician F.S. Blumm has a very particular style. He uses live instrumentation to create understated tunes some jazzy, others austere that suggest folktronica without any glitchtracks or other electronics. He seems to prize his independence, and cordons it off with ampersands in his frequent collaborations: Sack & Blumm, with Harald \"Sack\" Ziegler, and Rebresch & Blumm, with Rininat Rebresch. By implication, he disavows the notion that collaboration produces a collective entity. Working together is all good, but the kid stays in the picture.So naturally, Blumm is instantly recognizable on A Little Big, the second LP of Englishlanguage music to issue from his project with the singer Ellinor Blixt. His knack for rococo, effortlessfeeling melodies is in his playful guitar work, which, along with light percussion and duet vocals, dominates the album. His flickering arpeggios suit Blixt's airy voice perfectly. The overall effect is more attuned to the indie pop of Blixt's native Sweden, and the careful, coy arrangements are citizens only of Blummland. If you're familiar with his solo work, this is exactly how you'd expect his songwriting project to sound: Dreamy and lackadaisical, like a European version of Luna.Bobby and Blumm join a long line of sweet dualgendered crooners Sonny & Cher, the Captain & Tennille, Stars, the xx who rely on an echo chamber effect to enhance their music's intimacy. Solo devotional songs float off into abstraction; their targets could be anyone or no one. With duets, we can pretend the singers are addressing each other, even if they're not, and the poignancy of the emotion becomes focused and present. Blumm's wonderful line on \"Some Sweets\", \"In your arms, I push repeat,\" would be generally appealing in any case, but trailed with Blixt's whispers, it becomes specific not any old arms, not some symbolic arms, but your arms. It feels like stumbling into the middle of a private embrace.The album's consistency is a potential limitation, though little distinguishes one song from the next. Extremely muted horns, keyboards, and chimes color various songs but each time, you're getting essentially the same thing: chiming guitar melodies, midtempo vocals, and a feeling of breezy exactitude. As a result, A Little Big isn't the sort of album you swoon hard for and listen to often. Instead, it clings to the back of your mind, slipping into rotation less frequently. Some listeners may find the patient, lowkey vibe monotonous. But those who can still make time for a modest, charming little record stuffed with arresting details will be amply rewarded. "}