{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15253/homepage_large.b88d13a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Broken Social Scene","title":"Forgiveness Rock Record","text":" Forgiveness is not a sentiment often associated with rock music. Anger, despair, infatuation, sure. But forgiveness is more complicated, and tougher to fit into a fourminute song. Broken Social Scene know all about heartbreak they've spent most of the last decade crafting songs about it with almost unparalleled zeal. Their story is filled with scurrilous encounters, backstabbings, and breakups on par with most 70s arenarockers, and they've crashed and rebuilt so many times that it's nearly impossible to keep track of who was where at any given moment. But they've also used that flexibility to their advantage: Their epochal 2002 breakout You Forgot It In People was the joyous sound of friends banding together to boost each other up, while 2005's Broken Social Scene was the dizzying sound of friends fizzing out into solo endeavors and outside pursuits.Now they're back, and they're forgiving. Who, exactly? Each other, loves, bad decisions, humanity at large, worse decisions, the past, the future, culture, corporations, art, you, me, maybe even George W. Bush. (Well, maybe not him.) And while a 59minute absolution session sounds excessive for even the most devout fans, Broken Social Scene aren't just throwing out hail marys here. Because forgiveness is hard, especially for a group this grand and this intertwined for this long. The album lets bygones go while acknowledging the pain and discipline involved, and does so while keeping with the band's indiemixtape rep. There's a song that sounds like Pavement, one that sounds like the Sea and Cake (featuring Sea and Cake singer Sam Prekop), another like a Broadway adaptation of Children of Men, a weightless ballad that may double as an ode to masturbation, and a song that's basically five minutes of atmospheric pop perfection. Their ambition is intact.Forgiveness Rock Record's thematic bent is mature, and that sense of gravity is embedded into the music, too. Working with band hero, Tortoise/Sea and Cake drummer, and postrock mastermind John McEntire for the first time, Broken Social Scene made sure to have their shit together. Considering the coproducer's experimental bona fides, it's surprising that this is the most songbased album the band has ever made every track but one contains vocals, and a couple seem to be filled with more words than the entirety of You Forgot It In People. Unlike their last album's sometimes indulgent cutandpaste sonic collages, Forgiveness has distinct targets and leaves little room for wayward meanders.The band's newfound tightness results in a few of the most chartfriendly songs in BSS history, although as usual, each seems to come with a builtin caveat to prevent the potential of radio play: the sweatsoaked \"World Sick\", with its massive crescendos building to one visceral, heartpounding release after another, is nearly seven minutes long with extended instrumental intros and outros. \"Texico Bitches\", despite its misleading breezy accompaniment, is an increasingly topical indictment of big oil that repeats the word \"bitches\" 12 times. And the vocals on the beautiful, synthladen \"All to All\" are serviceably performed by relative newcomer Lisa Lobsinger, where Leslie Feist's stronger, more possessed delivery may have pushed it into another weight class entirely. (Feist does show up on Forgiveness, but only for background vocals.)As an althippie with obsessions for Dinosaur Jr., Jeff Buckley, and Ennio Morricone, BSS main face Kevin Drew led the burgeoning band to somewhere completely fresh with You Forgot It In People, an album that read like a nonironic, indierock Odelay for the early 2000s. For the most part, Drew and company are referencing the same beloved bands on Forgiveness, with one key addition: Broken Social Scene themselves. There are now marks that listeners expect them to hit, and they're nailed with focus and precision: the peppy, hornladen track from Apostle of Hustle's Andrew Whiteman (\"Art House Director\"), the backofthebus acoustic session (\"Highway Slipper Jam\"), the immense instrumental to end all immense instrumentals (\"Meet Me in the Basement\"). All of those tracks excellently fill their respective niches, but the fact that there are niches at all adds a bittersweet tinge to a band that once sounded like everything else and nothing else.Which leads us to the indiscretion summary \"Sentimental X's\". It checks off another BSS box the subtly devastating Emily Hainessung hearttugger. \"Off and on is what we want,\" sings Haines, narrating the band's giftandcurse plight, \"A friend of a friend you used to call/ Or a friend of a friend you used/ You used to call.\" Which is what Broken Social Scene is: a mess of friends using friends, loving friends, calling friends, wanting to call friends, and then not calling friends anymore. The connections are transitory but also indestructible. Ultimately, \"Sentimental X's\" is a love song; there's lots of forgiveness, but nobody feels sorry. "}