{"label":" Ostgut Ton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15256/homepage_large.66fcdb45.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tal Rosenberg","artist":"Marcel Dettmann","title":"Dettmann","text":" The Berlin club Berghain is to present day techno roughly what the Paradise Garage was to New York City dance culture in the 1980s: If not the biggest and most popular club, then perhaps the most legendary and notorious. And Marcel Dettmann is to Berghain as Larry Levan was to the Garage: its most dynamic, talented, and idiosyncratic star. As a DJ, Dettmann is known for lengthy sets of lean, muscular techno, spanning the genre's entire history. Tapping into all of techno's permutations whether it is minimal or Detroit or dub his mixes may at first appear too mechanical and impenetrable. But his ability to blend nearly identical tracks with subtle variations provides a distinct arc, one that exhibits tremendous technical skill and an impressive knowledge of techno's history.Dettmann, his first fulllength, works in similar ways. Though the album is bookended by \"Quasi\" and \"Taris\" interchangeable, nearly beatless ambient tracks the transition between the introduction and \"Argon\", the album's second track, is jarring. The latter is an aggressively percussive and discordant piece of experimental techno three quickly sequenced lowfrequency drum kicks are followed by a succession of brisk metallic clicks and jumbled claps with almost zero variation. The only noticeable shift occurs when the overall sound expands in a brief interval, working from its claustrophobic template into an airier, echoconducive setting. Just as the track itself suggests spatial growth, the album follows suit: With each subsequent piece, Dettmann adds a little flourish an extra rhythm or synth to make the album progressively fleshier, moister, and wider.Fans of more buzzedabout techno artists like Ricardo Villalobos and OmarS will find less to clasp onto here even in its dubbier second half, Dettmann has neither Villalobos' sweltering polyrhythmic arrangements nor Omar's feminine house fripperies. But what it does have is a slowly revealing depth: Despite its ostensible rigidity, each track blossoms in unexpected ways. Concordantly, the album materializes in much the same way the individual songs do. A skeletal template of kick drum, hihat, and laser pings in the beginning of early track \"Screen\" is gradually bathed in the burbling clangs of what sounds like a steel marimba. By the time penultimate track \"Viscous\" rolls around, a muffled tuba oompa loompas over a hard, pounding bass drum while hiss and static fizzle all around it. Once the outro plays, the album's circularity is clearer.Though Dettmann's menacing and industrial first half doesn't quite strike as immediately as its spacious and immersive second, an argument could be made that its richness lies in the payoff received by patiently sitting with it over time. But I sit here wondering if, were any of these tracks playing in a club, would I actually get up and dance to it? Would I sit on the sides looking on? Just asking these questions indicates the album's slight shortcoming: That in trying to grab both mind and body, it manages to just barely miss both. "}