{"label":" The End / Indie","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15266/homepage_large.f9673435.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Leonard Pierce","artist":"Shining","title":"Blackjazz","text":" Though they're separated by profound differences most especially improvisation and rigidity jazz and metal have a lot more in common than most fans would admit. In particular, both tend to be torn over innovation: There are those who believe that no art form can survive without pushing its boundaries outward and upward, and those who believe that straying too far from those boundaries turns the music into something else, something undesirable and ugly. Into this morass of dreary arguments over authenticity wade Jørgen Munkeby and his colleagues in Shining, and they handily illustrate how the whole issue can be mooted by just not caring that much about pleasing either side.It's not as if Blackjazz, with its electrifying fusion of jazz structures and punishing metal instrumentation, is unprecedented: The first buzzy guitar chords of \"The Madness and the Damage Done\", which quickly settle into unpredictable jazz patterns, call back to Borbetomagus or Peter Brötzmann. The appearance of a spastic saxophone owes more than a bit to American jazzpunk, and Shining's extreme metal elements recall Enslaved, with whom they've collaborated in the past. Even the band's past as an acoustic jazz ensemble, and its use of distinctive rhythm patterns and odd instrumentation, are reminders of other forwardlooking Scandinavians like Jaga Jazzist.But Shining manage to transcend their influences, numerous as they may be, by simply throwing themselves into the sum of their parts with such gusto. From beginning to end and including a predictable but enjoyable cover of King Crimson's \"21st Century Schizoid Man\" that tips their prog influences Shining never fail to convince themselves, or listeners, they're presenting something new. That conviction, combined with their undeniable chops Munkeby's unhinged sax work and the extremely adept drumming of Torstein Lofthus deserve special attention carries Blackjazz into somewhere worth exploring.It's when Blackjazz fails to go whole hog, in fact, that they're at their least convincing. The world certainly doesn't need another Opeth, and Shining still gets a bit carried away with the synth noodling with which symphonic metal has cursed an unlucky world. Even Helte Hermansen's guitars are hooky, powerful, and wound up in exciting progressions, but they could stand to get a little dirt on them; Munkeby's vocals also benefit from grit, and a less clinical guitar sound would definitely benefit Shining's overall attack. Still, Shining are combining jazz and metal in original ways, from the filling up of jazz's precious empty spaces with ticking nervous energy to the replacement of metal's vocal aggression with creepy and disconnected noise. And if that's not the same as true originality, it's close enough. "}