{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15280/homepage_large.b0507bc6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Japandroids","title":"No Singles","text":" PostNothing pumped fists, swilled beers, and ogled girls with the unbridled enthusiasm of youth, but on it Japandroids also viewed the future as something daunting. Maybe Brian King and David Prowse still worry about dying and being away from home, but now they're facing something more mundane and knowable: following a record that catapulted them to indie fame. This year, the duo will continue to release 7\" singles culled from material written during the PostNothing sessions in addition to No Singles, a collection of two outofprint EPs (2007's All Lies and 2008's Lullaby Death Jams). And while it's a fun peek into Japandroids' developmental process, don't expect anything more from this release.Granted, Japandroids sound like the same band that made PostNothing, if occasionally less reliant on fuzz tones. Prowse often forgoes timekeeping for drumonyourdashboard fills while King bashes away in DropD tuning, which allows you to power chord with one finger. And No Singles engages new fans with its best stuff up front. Even for Japandroids, \"Darkness on the Edge of Gastown\" is bluntly composed, little more than one chord alternately bludgeoned and left to dissonantly ring before a coda that stresses tension where later songs would lean on catharsis.It probably wasn't their intention to cast PostNothing in an even better light, but No Singles does show that it featured real craftsmanship instead of just reckless abandon. On the waltztimed \"Sexual Aerosol\", you hear a likable band as much indebted to late90s, postSunny Day emo as punk; decent, but not playing with any real urgency. The vocals are in place for the most part King and Prowse do their back and forth, buddybuddy thing with repeated, clipped phrases. \"No Allegiance to the Queen\" and \"Coma Complacency\" come close to locating the sort of anthem qualities of the band's best songs, but spirited \"whoas!\" and \"heys!\" are the best singalong moments there.In many places, songs seem much looser than the band's later material. Tracks that retain an offthecuff, jamlike composition (\"Lucifer's Symphony\", \"Couture Suicide\") lack a monster riff or sense of drama to justify their length. It's no surprise that of these songs, only \"Gastown\" and their overthetop take on Mclusky's \"To Hell With Good Intentions\" regularly make their live shows these days. Despite the hit and miss content, Japandroids come off as so genuine it would be cynical to view this release with suspicion. Hell, if anything, it's proof positive that they're improving and a cautionary tale against the dangers of hyping bands in their infancy and not giving them chances to develop. "}