{"label":" Erased Tapes / Kning","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15279/homepage_large.1ba40745.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Nils Frahm","title":"The Bells","text":" There's a certain breed of modern musician he's in his twenties, probably European who strives to recapture the ingenuous magic of the great neoclassical composers (Satie, Ravel, Stravinsky) in a world after Glass, Reich, and Riley. His songs tend to be concise, and intimately arranged for single instruments or small chamber ensembles. He favors cerebral repetitions, sentimental motifs, light electronics. And there's a good chance he releases music on London's Erased Tapes imprint, home to Peter Broderick, Ólafur Arnalds, and Nils Frahm, a Berlinbased composer in his latetwenties, whose new album, The Bells, was improvised on piano in a cavernous Berlin church.It's no wonder that the language of 20th century art music still speaks to young composers. Its blend of austerity and immediacy positions it for crossover success between classical and pop. And it feels modern: Its hypnotic patterns resonate with electronic music, as its use of common materials to express personal verities does with indie rock. Technique is a prerequisite, but style is paramount. Frahm answers Broderick's playfulness and Arnalds' solemnity with a rather astringent point of view. Whether meandering like Satie or needling like Glass, his impressive playing can't save The Bells from feeling stuffy and vague, outside a few standout pieces. It is often pretty, but for minimal piano music, this is lowhanging fruit.The Bells was originally released on Kning Disk, as part of the Broderickcurated Piano Solo series. Broderick gave Frahm cues to guide his playing. \"Make a song that you could imagine me rapping over the top of\" produced \"My Things\", a stubborn vamp with loud, spiky smashups evocative of John Adams' \"Hallelujah Junction\". It's one of the more rewarding songs here, although it can be a bit much. The same is true of \"Said and Done\", which would be great if Frahm's stinging onenote figure didn't run roughshod over the fluid melody. He avoids the fatal flaw of overstated understatement on the lovely \"Over There, It's Raining\", a lulling tune along the lines of Eluvium's \"Radio Ballet\". But often, Frahm could use a little more mezzo in his forte.Some of Broderick's help was less productive: It's neat that he was actually prone on the strings for \"Peter Is Dead in the Piano\", but the music is muffled and lugubrious. The icy twinkles of \"Dedication, Loyalty\" evoke a million similiar songs, and the snowy noodling of \"It Was Really, Really Grey\" has a nastily biting climax that seems almost spiteful. The bottom line is that The Bells tends to be either tedious and pretty or interesting and caustic; it often feels unpleasantly satisfied with itself. "}