{"label":" Sugar Hill","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15284/homepage_large.b381c59f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Black Prairie","title":"Feast of the Hunter's Moon","text":" While Colin Meloy is off writing young adult novels and John Moen is drumming for Robert Pollard, the remaining three Decemberists have join forces with a few Portland friends to form Black Prairie, a string band specializing in bucolic Americana, Appalachian breakdowns, bluegrass picking, and cowboy songs. It's at once a serious endeavor and a musical lark: Avoiding practice spaces and loud clubs, the group existed mainly in the members' Portland homes, rehearsing in kitchens and living rooms. They eventually signed with North Carolinabased indie Sugar Hill, which makes them labelmates with likeminded artists Nickel Creek and the Duhks. The liners for their debut, Feast of the Hunter's Moon, create a comic mythology about the fictional town of Black Prairie and its annual Music Festival, where the legend goes that each of the band members have fared spectacularly poorly. And yet, despite their humor and the hominess of the band's origins, Black Prairie practices a particularly expansive Americana, synthesizing a range of styles and sounds into an erudite whole.This is not the first Decemberists splinter group. In 2007, guitar player Chris Funk and friends released an album of frontporch jam sessions as Flash Hawk Parlor Ensemble, a cheery group that grafted idyllic folk to spacey Moog synths. Full of oddball melodic curlicues and android blips and beeps, that band's lone album, Plastic Bag in a Tree, sounded like a fanmade Firefly soundtrack. By contrast, Black Prairie is grounded and earthy, confined to terrestrial flatlands instead of unmoored in the cosmos. Doc Watson, John Fahey, and old Rounder Records comps are all influences here, but so are YoYo Ma, the Klezmatics, and Argentine tango composer Astor Piazzolla, who is referenced in the lively runs of \"Ostinato del Caminito\". And yet, it all sounds like Americana, which is, Feast suggests, the sum of its immigrant parts.Although these songs are well composed and proficiently performed, ultimately their pleasures prove mostly academic, as if each song bears its own thesis and argument. Especially compared to Flash Hawk Parlor Ensemble, the music is studiously sober, with the paintedon prairie ambience of a TBone Burnett soundtrack. \"Across the Black Prairie\" and \"Atrocity at Celilo Falls\" sound ominous but lack grit and immediacy; \"Back Alley\" and \"Tango Oscuro\" are spry but lack spirit. Oddly, the best moments on the album come with vocals: Annalisa Tornfelt's gravely lovely performance lends the traditional ballad \"Red Rocking Chair\" its understated threat, while her echoing vocals on closer \"The Blackest Crow\" sounds both shoegazer and barefoot. That song is actually the most intriguing synthesis on Feast, but Black Prairie never build on it. They may have some intriguing ideas about what constitutes Americana, but this album seems both overthought and underdeveloped the product of living rooms rather than real prairies. "}