{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15282/homepage_large.eaf745d3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Zs","title":"New Slaves","text":" It's been about a decade since Brooklyn's Zs formed, and if similar bands Liars, Black Dice, Gang Gang Dance have grown to unlikely prominence, Zs have remained (unlikely brushes with Howard Stern aside) relatively unburdened by fame. Yet Zs' undertheradar status suits the trio just fine, not least because the group's noise from the underground has increasingly begun to sound like, well, noise from the underground. As in literally Zs music can sound like something menacing you might hear blasting out from beneath a manhole one night, a noise that may make you walk just that much faster, looking nervously over your shoulder for a glimpse of who or what is emerging from the dank and dark.New Slaves begins with a looping exploration of dreamy percussion that sounds like a cross between bicycle spokes being hit, a street excavation project, and an orchestra tuning up backwards. And as that opening track, \"Concert Black\", seamlessly shifts into the second, \"Acres of Skin\", it's clear that the Zs haven't suddenly become any more interested in sonic handholding. The rhythm and racket are unrelenting, the composition dense and disorienting, and when Sam Hillmer's teakettle sax finally kicks in, all you can do is give up and go with it.And, boy, does the disc take you places, equally evocative and offputting, challenging and intriguing. \"Gentleman Amateur\" starts off with not just a particularly tactile drone but what comes across as several strangely distinct drones all at once. Its digital beehive of intense buzzing is supported by an almost invisible industrial beat that doesn't make its presence really known until moments before the track ends. The distorted shouting of \"Don't Touch Me\" leads to what may be the first clear use of electric guitar, which is itself quickly subsumed by the group's studiosculpted cacophony. The track's three or so minutes feel like an eternity, and in turn the relative peace and quiet of the following \"Masonry\", an ambience mining epiphany.The sheer skronk and clank of the 20minute title track is more unforgiving, a coruscating blast that falls somewhere between a busy phone bank and a construction site. Which leaves the two parts of \"Black Crown Ceremony\" to conclude the album on a slightly easier to take though by no means easy note. Indeed, right up to its abrupt conclusion, New Slaves pretty much epitomizes uneasiness, like your worst postmillennial urban nightmare come to life in musical form, let loose to terrorize the world, at least for the disc's epic duration. And then all goes blissfully, nervously quiet once again. "}