{"label":" Estrus","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1412/homepage_large.8691a68f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Cherry Valence","title":"Riffin'","text":" The Cherry Valence, a group of hard rawkers from Raleigh, NC, seem like the types that would keep running lists in their heads of who is and who is not \"real rock and roll.\" The owners of such mindsets usually place themselves in the center of this imagined real rock circle, and damn those who venture beyond its perimeter. In the case of this band, the prerequisites for a cherryscented stamp of approval are riffs, riffs, and more riffs, as one might expect from the telling title of their second album, Riffin'. It's very hard to be objective when it comes down to riffs. After all, who can say which riffs are good and which aren't? By keeping things as basic as they do, the Valence make it difficult to apply any kind of logic to the proceedings. Either this music grabs you or it doesn't, and while Riffin' will probably rake up a modest pile of followers, it seems certain that the majority of ears it strikes will have been struck more effectively by other likeminded bands and/or be completely indifferent. Guitarists Jamie Williams and Cheetie Kumar riff it up with all due aplomb, doling out a tasty riff morsel per song, but with little else to offer, Riffin' grows surprisingly tiring during the course of its 33minute runtime. The shame of it all is that each song, and the album as a whole, could be made leagues better if only the band weren't committed to a goodonpaper philosophy of being full volume all the time. Even Led Zeppelin, no friends of subtlety themselves, knew the value of contrast and dynamics. This lesson appears to have gone unimparted on The Cherry Valence, and it's easy to imagine them giving their audiences migraines at the exact moment the band expects a group orgasm. None of these shortcomings would be a death blow on their own, and even taken together, they don't disqualify The Cherry Valence as an enjoyable band. Similar charges could just as easily be leveled at The Stooges, The MC5, The Sonics, Sex Pistols, etc., but what the Cherry Valence lacks is an Iggy, a Rob Tyner, a Gerry Roslie, a Johnny Rotten, etc. Brian Quast and Nick Whitley, sharing lead vocal duties, thankfully sidestep any attempts to add a Robert Plant wail to the guitar bombast behind them, and they wind up sounding much more human and real for it. But they also sound generic and utterly devoid of charisma, filling the position without offering much that's compelling. The same goes for the band. They're ultimately a group that you can go see when you can't afford AC/DC tickets, and since CDs cost the same regardless of their worth, you might as well skip Riffin' and buy Back in Black instead. "}