{"label":" Atlantic / Grand Hustle / Rebel Rock","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15295/homepage_large.2daac4a1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"B.o.B","title":"The Adventures of Bobby Ray","text":" B.o.B began griping about the trials of fame long before he had any. \"They say that I'm changing/ Cuz I'm gettin famous,\" went the chorus to 2008's \"Fuck You\", a bluesy lope of acoustic guitar and twangy harmonica that recalled vintage Dungeon Family. The logic was counterintuitive, even a little ridiculous, but the song itself was warm, fluid, and surprising. It was B.o.B in a nutshell: arrogant, selfaware, undeniably promising. The long road from that to The Adventures of Bobby Ray seems dominated by record execs who manicured, manhandled, and placated the rapper. They catered to all his worst instincts, and he gladly surrendered himself to theirs. The result should serve as a cautionary tale to all involved, except for one small detail: The Adventures of Bobby Ray was the No. 1 album in the country last week.To put that in perspective: Bobby Ray sold 84,000 copies. In 2003, when people still bought CDs, these numbers would have been embarrassing for a highprofile hiphop debut, but in 2010, they are, apparently, victorylap worthy. Atlantic invested time and effort into \"grooming\" B.o.B, and since record companies tend only to take notice when their preplanned strategies pan out (groundlevel phenomena like Gucci Mane tend to get dismissed as flukes), we can expect to see a lot more records patterned explicitly on The Adventures of Bobby Ray. And that's a truly depressing prospect. As a primer on what major label execs think they need to do to sell a rap record to a mass audience in 2010, Bobby Ray is a queasily fascinating document. As an actual album, it is wretched a dishearteningly generic and hollow product with no soul or demographic or viewpoint that arguably bottoms out three separate times.It turns out that the answer to the above question \"What do major labels think it takes to sell rap albums in 2010?\"  is simple: hide the rapping. Bury it under dewy pianos and sensitive cooing; sugarcoat it with emopop choruses; tuck it behind compressed guitars. Basically put it anywhere listeners are least likely to notice it. This is a disturbing strategy to pursue, but it's particularly galling here; B.o.B is a fantastically gifted rapper, with an astonishing rhythmic command and a tricky, limber way with phrasing. On Bobby Ray he's reduced to a guest rapper on his own songs. Only three tracks feel even remotely connected to a rap aesthetic, and they are the best things here by a mile: \"Bet I\" finds him somersaulting joyfully around a juddering 808 kick, backed by an equally onfire T.I. and Playboy Tre. \"Fame\" flips a sample of Canadian cheese rockers April Wine into a surprisingly funky horn loop, and \"5th Dimension\", despite a ludicrous yowled hook from Lenny Kravitz standin Rico Barrino that bites \"Inner City Blues\" and regrettable spacerock guitars, features some of B.o.B's most vivid rapping.The bulk of the record, though, is a undifferentiated mass of stickysweet modernrock radio in which it's difficult to single out the lowest moment. Is it the airconditioned subColdplay crooning of Bruno Mars on \"Nothin On You\"? Bobby Ray's inexplicable decision to turn Vampire Weekend's \"The Kids Don't Stand a Chance\" into a Sublime song? Or the appearance by Weezer's Rivers Cuomo, whose creepily blank vocals on \"Magic\" sound like the engineer has a gun to his head? B.o.B himself struggles to inject personality into the proceedings. In the lyrics to \"Airplanes\", a moody teenpop melodrama with a chorus by Paramore's Hayley Williams, Bobby Ray pines, just like he did on \"Fuck You\", for simpler times. \"Somebody take me back to the days/ Before this was a job, before I got paid,\" he asks, remembering, \"back before I tried to cover up my slang.\" It's a brief acknowledgment of what he has had to give up to get here. The Adventures of Bobby Ray is a curiously lonely affair, the sound of a singular talent being drowned in a tidal wave of cheerful banality. "}