{"label":" Def Jam / Universal Republic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15319/homepage_large.264e9a29.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Damian Marley / Nas","title":"Distant Relatives","text":" At the end of the 1998 Hype Williams film Belly, Nas, playing a reformed outlaw named Sincere, leaves behind the violence and betrayal of his old life and moves to Africa. That's it. Just Africa. We don't learn where in Africa he moves, or what he does when he gets there. We just hear \"Africa,\" like the entire continent is some gigantic symbol for rebirth and redemption. It's meant to be a triumphant ending, but it's frustratingly outofreach, missing the specificity that could've made it satisfying. There's something of that same nagging wellintentioned vagueness to Nas' latest venture, as well.Nas is in a tough spot right now, coming off of a couple of halfsuccessful, attentiongrabbing concept albums and a costly, spiteful public divorce. So it makes sense for him to link up with the scion of one of the most universally beloved figures in all of music, making a backtobasics move that pushes him away from rap and tabloid politics. Nas and Damian Marley are both sons of celebrated musical figures, so god knows they probably have plenty to talk about. Five years ago, Nas guested on Marley's \"Road to Zion\" and sounded great doing it. Onstage together at SXSW, they had a lively chemistry, Marley chatting madly over the \"N.Y. State of Mind\" beat and Nas giddily playing hypeman on \"Welcome to Jamrock\". And first single and album opener \"As We Enter\" promises great things, Nas and Marley furiously trading off tagteam punchlines over a track that perfectly splits the difference between dusty NY boombap and warm postdancehall reggae.But too often on Distant Relatives, Nas and Marley fall into a sort of middlebrow funk, kicking overripe platitudes over sunny sessionmusician lopes and letting their selfimportance suffocate their personalities. Marley's never done his best work shooting for inspirational. On his best tracks, he brings less of his father's wizened optimism and more of the gravelly, demonic snarl of dancehallschooled avengers like Sizzla or Capleton. Nas, meanwhile, is best at tense, tactile details: The feeling of gunpowder burning your nostril hair, the dank smell of piss in the project elevator. In trying to make what basically amounts to a modernday Bob Marley album, they've both pushed themselves away from their strengths.Nas strays into either the toogeneral (\"I reach 'em like Bono/ So get rid of your selfsorrow\") or puzzling paranoia (\"If satellites is causing earthquakes, will we survive it?\"). The production, mostly from Marley and brother Stephen, tends too often toward stifled, Grammybait guitar solos and tinkling, expensive R&B sheen. The track \"My Generation\" is all the album's worst impulses put on display, a sickly attempt at gospel with Joss Stone yowling all over the chorus and a truly dogshit Lil Wayne guest verse all in service of fuzzy, feelgood preachiness. On tracks like this one, the dormroom philosophizing gets a little thick.But even with all that, the album is still a true collaborative affair, two deeply talented guys with amazing, evocative voices finding common ground and exploring it. So when it does work, it's serious. \"Nah Mean\" puts a nasty mid90s NY rap beat in service of some ferocious snarling from both principals. \"Land of Promise\" is devastating oldschool dancehall toughness, not far removed from Marley's own \"Welcome to Jamrock\", with Nas finding new cadences for his dusky monotone. \"As We Enter\" and \"Patience\" respectively sample Mulatu Astatke and Amadou and Mariam, both to great effect. When these guys stop trying to be positive and just vent, they do great things. Nas sounds most like himself in the last minute of \"Strong Will Continue\". The song is mostly pretty bland, five minutes of sloganeering before Nas suddenly turns ugly, wondering if his exwife cheated on him, bringing up Bruce Lee's family curse, raging at nobody in particular, then breaking everything off with haughty style: \"See a nigga disappearing with the baddest honeys in the whole spot, yeeah.\" With all the heavyhanded philosophizing all around it, it's pretty thrilling to hear Nas suddenly going all \"Oochie Wally\" on us, if only for a second. But then the song ends, and it's back to the preaching. "}