{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15316/homepage_large.743bae25.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Tobacco","title":"Maniac Meat","text":" The longer some formerly hitech sound has lingered, the easier it is for some current musician to warp it into a purpose completely at odds with its original ultramodern innovation. Last generation's gleaming chromeandplastic tomorrow gets fed through a chemical bath by some junkshop customer with a home recording studio, and it comes out the other end as a shambling wreck of digital decay, Frankensteinstitched into discolored reveries or blownout squalls.Black Moth Super Rainbow frontman Tom Fec has been on both the mellow and the noisy sides of that mutation process. And where BMSR's last CD release, Eating Us, was a loud but frequently pretty collection of woozily psychedelic progpop, Tobacco's second solo album Maniac Meat is all fuzz and snarl, tarpit bass and rustyhinged drum machines smashed into corroded analog synths that sound like they were found in a backwoods scrapyard. Think of Boards of Canada's bucolic sciencefilmstrip wispiness run through a greasecaked doom metal/funk filter, or ElP's noisier productions with the dread and horror replaced by giddy bewilderment. I don't namedrop lightly it's actually a familiar, comfortable ride if you keep previous experiences with Geogaddi or Fantastic Damage at the forefront of your head while listening to this.That's more of a case of kinship than replication. Tobacco shares those artists' samplesandsynths methodology towards similar hiphopskewing ends, but he tends to keep a finer balance toward both sides of his \"ugly beauty\" approach. Tobacco's inhuman, vaguely menacing but mysteriously cheerful filtered voice has a lot to do with that. It's the source of much of the album's decayedfuture personality, drawing ambiguous threats, damaged comeons, and grotesque accusations through unsettlingly fragile vocoder whispers: \"Lick the witch/ Make a friend tonight\"; \"You got sick from a lolly lolly lollipop/ You feel free when you're killing me\". It's not the only voice, of course: a pair of Beck cameos on \"Fresh Hex\" and \"Grape Aerosmith\" feature the same postmodern lyrical ambiguity that made him famous, and evoke the mutant electro of his circaMidnite Vultures Bsides. But Fec's tone of subtly unhinged, deceptively naïflike menace or deceptively menacing giddiness, depending on what you've just fed into your system runs the show.That goes double for the motley collection of juryrigged electronic debris he funnels his music through. Synthetic and live drums alike are both amplified to the point of borderline physical discomfort, basslines melt into riffs that growl like oversized predators, and the treble end is dominated by distorted analog buzzes that sound more like Nintendo superbikes than any kind of easilygraspable hook. But then a bright keyboard melody will jump out a Carslike siren wailing over the hoppedup punk racket of \"Constellation Dirtbike Head\"; a glimmering electric chime piercing the machineshop boombap of \"Motorlicker\"; soul pianos and fluttering synths that make \"Six Royal Vipers\" sound like the Tron version of Willie Mitchell's Hi Records sound and the ghosts of prog rock, gfunk and new wave past manifest into a recollection of how audacious those old sounds used to be in the first place. It doesn't take a lot to make old technology sound damaged and creepy. But taking the next step and making that creepiness sound appealing is what makes Maniac Meat the feelweird hit of the summer. "}