{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15329/homepage_large.706010fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Robedoor","title":"Burners","text":" Given they spent five years making thick, openended drones, Robedoor's recent move to more songoriented material could have been sonically restricting. But this prolific L.A. group actually sounds more free since transitioning from music that makes your skull hum to music you can hum along to. Last year's Raiders saw them reveling in the doommetal that had always bubbled under the surface of their noise. Now they do the same on Burners with other sides of their sound namely, grooving krautrock, gothic sludge, and the psychgarage of the Stooges and Spacemen 3.Which is not to say that the three pieces here sound unlike Robedoor. The backbone that anchored their previous drones a burrowing lowend rumble is still intact. At this point it's hard to imagine they could make an album without it. But at times in the past, Robedoor's massive vibrations could get overwhelming, even claustrophobic. The injection of propulsive drums and churning bass stretches the band into brighter territory, while also giving shape to their underlying roar. This development recalls the transformation that members of dronemongers Double Leopards underwent when they formed the more grooveoriented Religious Knives. So when a tribal, Canlike rhythm burrows through the fuzz and howl of \"I Thought You Were the Devil\", what might have been a twodimensional drone becomes a threedimensional song.That expansion comes partially from simple math. Until last year Robedoor were the duo of Britt and Alex Brown; Burners is their first album made completely as a trio with Ged Gengras. Gengras' talents, most of which manifest as lightningstrike drumming, would widen any group's sound. But a bigger factor than numbers is attitude. Where Raiders captured L.A.'s smoggy wonder, Burners looks farther outward to what Britt calls \"theme songs for dead desert borderlands\". That wideangle lens is most apparent on \"Burning Man\", a 19minute track taking up all of Side Two. Here, the trio opens with a sonic pan across a dusty landscape, almost falling asleep to the lumbering beat. But when Gengras detonates his cymbals like a bomb, the Browns launch into a Spacemen 3style sway that constantly grows. It's another case of Robedoor finding freedom in structure, and another creative beltnotch for this expansive outfit. "}