{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15327/homepage_large.7c791f93.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Jamie Lidell","title":"Compass","text":" It's been four years since Jamie Lidell transformed from a maker of fidgety laptop music into a deconstructionist soul singer. In that time, he's managed to avoid being lumped in with other soul revivalists thanks in no small part to his template a combination of simple, authenticsounding R&B songcraft peppered with a digital production ethic. So far, it's been an effective act, but as with any predicated partly on the past, it's hard not to feel like it might have a shelf life. Compass marks Lidell's third record since that reinvention, and finds him jettisoning the Staxinspired framework that he so confidently established on 2005's Multiply in favor of a mishmash of different ideas and sounds, some of which could reasonably be classed as R&B, and some not.Make no mistake, though, Compass isn't another sweeping reinvention of Lidell's sound, nor is it even really a particularly cohesive collection of songs. It is, instead, a messy and manic record, one that's more concerned with the moment than with any overarching aesthetic or tone. It sounds, basically, like the work an artist in transition. It should come as no surprise that Lidell apparently wrote all 14 of these tracks in under a month; Compass has all the good and bad hallmarks of such a speedy birthing process.Recorded in Los Angeles, New York, and Canada, Compass features guest performances from Gonzales, Feist, Nikka Costa, Wilco's Pat Sansone, Chris Taylor of Grizzly Bear, session drummer James Gadson, and another artist who knows a thing or two about flirting with pastiche Beck. While the spirit of Mr. Hansen's collaborative freeforall Record Club sessions looms heavily over the equally loose Compass, it's Gadson whose presence is most felt; that Compass is Lidell's bangingest record is almost enough to atone for the fact that it's also his patchiest.What's most telling and perhaps encouraging is just how many of its highlights fall outside of Lidell's original template. Built out of a suitably naked a cappella and a booming low end section, opener \"Completely Exposed\" has almost no midrange instrumentation, but ranks as one of the most vital things he's ever recorded. Elsewhere, \"Your Sweet Boom\" is nearly as bottomheavy and culminates with a burst of vocals; \"She Needs Me\" rolls along on a slippery, MORflavored groove that's more early80s than mid60s; the gorgeous \"Compass\" boasts classical guitars and a dusky, Latin backbeat; closer \"You See My Light\" is so light and gently delivered that it feels barely there at all.As for Compass' misfires, well, there's a few, but it almost feels academic to dwell too much on them. This is a transitional record, an inbetweener, one that Lidell may eventually look back on as a door to something else. The good news for all of us is that even when he's down, he's not out. "}