{"label":" Templar Label Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15340/homepage_large.72e19dad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Shabazz Palaces","title":"Of Light","text":" The most shocking thing about Pitchfork staff writer Tom Breihan's interview with Palaceer Lazaro, the otherwise pressevasive figurehead of Seattle outrérap project Shabazz Palaces, wasn't that the interview actually took place it was that Lazaro still wanted to operate under a shroud of mystery. An unnecessary shroud, at that; Lazaro is actually Ishmael \"Butterfly\" Butler of the 1990's Native Tonguesleaning collective Digable Planets and, later, of the more pessimistically inclined group Cherrywine.Lazaro's approach is a refreshing change leading with your work instead of your persona; asking fans to interpret it rather than provide them answers. It's clear that he wants his art to be taken seriously, and based on his output so far it certainly will. Shabazz Palaces' first two minialbums, Of Light and its selftitled followup, are almost as paradoxical as the project's identity politics. Lazaro occasionally spits conscious verses about struggling and corruption, but he's also not afraid to go all hardhead and talk tough.  His lyrical subjects can be quotidian, frequently focusing on food and hanging out; his song titles, however, are frequently so longwinded that including all of them in full here would break any sensible editor's word count. The beats are dense and, at times, haunted; at the same time, this shit would sound great booming out of passing car windows.That is especially true of Shabazz Palaces, which acts as a dark, challenging foil to Of Light's relative playfulness. The beats here take equal cues from the blownout scifi dystopia of Company Flow, the harsh static antagonism of AntiPop Consortium and Dälek, and Los Angeles' Brainfeeder collective's headswimming ganja burn. Impeccable reference points and the way they're synthesized is impressive but these abstract beats have never been easy to convincingly rap over. But Lazaro handles it with intensity on every track here, moving with the rhythm no matter how irregular it may be.The chameleonic role Lazaro plays within these compositions is aided by his grizzled, gruff voice, which sounds worlds away from the smoother vocals he displayed with Digable Planets or Cherrywine. It could be assumed that this noticeable change was brought on by years of toiling under the radar of hiphop's fickle hype machine. It's easy to compare Ishmael Butler's artistic transformation into Palaceer Lazaro to Zev Love X's transformation to MF Doom: Both started out in earnesttalking early 90s collectives, and once the optimism ran dry, they laid low before reemerging as wizened, idiosyncratic, and enigmatic.Of course, reemergence doesn't always guarantee eternal success, as Doom's everunspooling narrative shows. Hopefully, Palaceer Lazaro oh, fuck it, call him Ishmael takes full and careful advantage of the second chance he's been offered (after all, they do come rare in the hiphop world).  Right now, though, this is his moment, and he's owning it. "}