{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15350/homepage_large.4c9331a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"The Ponys","title":"Deathbed + 4","text":" Late last year, The Chicago Reader ran a story hailing the Ponys' return to the live stage. After releasing three seismic fulllengths, the most recent and and most commercially successful for Matador, they did as that album's title suggested: They turned the lights out. The beloved local garage band had been progressing quietly over the years and just as their ball had seemed to really begin rolling, they took a break. Everything went silent. They began hibernating for what has seemed like some weird, indie rock eternity. So as that story made its way out of Chicago and onto the computer screens of nerds elsewhere, it brought with it a wave of excitement. \"We play in bands to write songs,\" guitarist Brian Case told the Reader of their decision to stop touring and rest. And after some of that, the itch to begin writing again brings us five songs in the form of the Deathbed +4 EP, the whole of which acts as a jolting reminder that yeah, the Ponys are back. An EP was a great way to get their beaks wet again without having to shoulder the songwriting weight of a fulllength right away. In that same article, Jered Gummere promised that new material would further emphasize the Ponys rhythm section, including his wife/bassist Melissa Elias. He kept that promise. Lead mp3 \"Check the Door\" begins with a cymbal crash, drummer Nathan Jerde's steady tribal beat burning up the song's foreground for the following four minutes. Through Gummere's improved Ian Curtis impression and welcome, menacing guitar crescendos, the beat isn't buried. It makes for a much stronger, more muscular song, something that can be said more convincingly for every other slice of the EP.Traditionally, the Ponys have been devout frontloaders. Not the case here. For the first time, the choicest cuts can be found closer to the record's center. Alongside the postpunk splash of \"Check the Door\", the titular track feels like one strut toward \"Is It Working\", one of the Pony's finest moments and the EP's apex At just two and a half minutes, it's short compared to the rest of the bunch. But it roars. Gummere ditches the vocal affect, the tempo lunges, and the twin guitars buzz as they antagonize one another.\"Pop Culture (Revisited)\" ensures there's no lull in its wake. When Gummere declares \"we are the pop culture,\" he punctuates it with an eyerolling, hairflipping \"uhhuh.\" It's awesome. The snark sounds just as acidic as it did when the band first dropped Laced With Romance in 2004. The swagger is still there. While \"The Walk\" kicks in, it brings to mind Wolf Parade and does so with a great sense of theater. But behind it, in the meat of the EP, is where the Ponys announce they've returned. Rumble to quake, it sounds like reason to be excited they're still making music, even more so for what's to come. "}