{"label":" Partisan","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15369/homepage_large.f4409e0e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Deer Tick","title":"The Black Dirt Sessions","text":" From the sound of \"Choir of Angels\", the opening cut from roots rockers Deer Tick's The Black Dirt Sessions, you might think that frontman John McCauley has found some muchneeded salvation. Still very much an old soul, his weathered vocals and donemewrong worldview has put him in league with characters who have been around much longer than McCauley's 24 years. \"The lonely road is behind me,\" McCauley sings over a melodramatic organ on the doowop tinted track, and there's conviction in his words. It sounds like a pretty nice place to be.But Deer Tick are still a long way from the Promised Land. Over the course of three albums, it's become clear that McCauley likes his band just the way it is and is not interested in growth or deviation. And since Deer Tick have never really stood out, another round of slightlybetterthanaverage, plainspoken altcountry tunes isn't an invitation to invested listening. It's become increasingly difficult to get behind this band that keeps fighting the same fight win, lose or draw.Deer Tick have gained a reputation for their raucous live presentations, but on record is another story. The addition of exTitus Andronicus guitarist Ian O'Neil seems lost here, with McCauley spending a good chunk of time behind the piano, leaving the rest of his band to contribute the odd embellishment. Working within such an uncluttered space, most of the weight has to be carried by McCauley alone. Occasionally, he hits the mark \"Goodbye, Dear Friend\" might be heavy handed, but it's a kind and uncomplicated elegy that finds McCauley carrying a drunk comrade to bed \"like a pallbearer,\" and too soon the chore transforms into sad reality. And \"Piece by Piece and Frame by Frame\", a rejection tale with all the trappings of a murder ballad, finds him waxing pathetic again, but this time in the guise of a delusional, almost frightening lovefool. The approach suggests that a Nick Cave anthology would open up a world of possibility for him.So it's too bad that the majority of The Black Dirt Sessions is so familiar, as the band dutifully strides through the same wellworn territory, perhaps even less palatable in their stubborn sameness. At least \"Mange\", the album's failed centerpiece, has the stones to rip off \"Sympathy for the Devil\", even if the outcome is about as contrived as you could imagine. Elsewhere, there are far too many aimless laments and meager ramblers that fail to register at all, let alone stick even if the \"riskier\" decisions don't always pay off, at least they're not boring. Deer Tick close the album with a nearly identical, pianodriven version of \"Christ Jesus\" from their debut, a decent song but certainly not worthy of a reprise here. It's here that we can most clearly see Deer Tick's focus as a band, one that's grown so comfortable in its own skin that it's begun to sag. "}