{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15363/homepage_large.dfc773b5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"A-Trak","title":"Dirty South Dance 2","text":" This could be Internetaccelerated nostalgia talking, but ATrak's first Dirty South Dance mix keeps sounding better the further 2007 disappears into the rearview. Bringing Southern bounce back to its bass roots by mashing it up with European electrohouse? Somehow ATrak made it work, mostly through sheer force of mixing skills and some surprisingly compatible beat selections. Going back to it now to hear \"Walk It Out\" or \"Hustlin'\" over the hyperactive snarl and throb of postEd Banger club music transcends its genrestunt origins, creating a snapshot of club rap's tentative late2000s forays into a thuggedout hiphouse revival.A sequel might have less to worry about as far as justifying its concept, but more on its shoulders when it comes to living up to a great predecessor. Dirty South Dance 2 gets a bit more focused in the process: Unlike the anythinggoes, geographicallyshaky definition of \"Dirty South\" displayed on the first mix, DSD2 leans heavily on the current front line of Southern hitmakers, the postSoulja Boy/Gucci contingent sharing time with vets like Young Jeezy and Birdman. (And Consequence, who's from Queens, but OK.) That grounds it a bit deeper in a specific regional tradition nobody's rapping in French on this one but still lets a host of stylistically distinct backing tracks shift momentum and mood.When it clicks, it brings new dimensions out of both tracks in the mix. The singsong cadence of Roscoe Dash's \"All the Way Turnt Up\" sounds even more Pixy Stix giddy when it's fitted to the hiccup of Claude Von Stroke's \"Vocal Chords\". Laying Dorrough's \"Ice Cream Paint Job\" over The Ones' cartoon80s electro track \"Blast\" turns a 20mileanhour boulevard cruise into a highspeed trip around the Nurburgring, but it heightens the original vocal's cockiness. And say what you will about Soulja Boy as an MC, but it makes a lot of sense to transplant his simplistic dancerap into a subtleasapiledriver house track like the Martin Brothers' \"Dum\".Those moments all work  because ATrak's not content to merely let the acapellas and the instrumentals meet each other halfway  the best segments of the beats are isolated, ramped up, and deftly cut for ideal momentum, while the vocals are stitched into the mix so precisely you'd think they were originally spit over a house beat. That does make the awkward matchups stick out more. \"Vampires Going Ham\" is the most egregious example: replacing Grade A Muzik's brilliant Def Jam '86goneATL beat is a tall order, and using DJ Touché's horrorprog \"Vampires\" necessitates that Pill's flow be chopped up and spread out until all the urgency and punch is completely drained from it. And no matter how hard you try, you just can't make Ludacris sound at home over an oldschool piano house track.Well, nothing ventured, nothing gained; at least the majority of Dirty South Dance 2 is enough to make you feel like there's still some life in this franchise yet. (And ATrak released this mix on his site for free, meaning you get a hell of a lot more than you pay for.) Still, there are a couple signs of restlessness here. ATrak drops the mashup conceit for a couple of exclusive tracks Carte Blanche's Kid Sister collaboration \"Do! Do! Do!\" and DJ Craze's remix of Donnis' \"Gone\" both of which are excellent but feel more like intermissions than continuations of the mix. And then there's the last track, which pulls out a sudden, final leftturn away from the electrohouse vibe: that's Yung L.A.'s \"Ain't I\" over Joker's euphoric wobblebass colossus \"Tron\", and its armswinging lope annihilates everything in the previous 43 minutes. A Dirty South Dance 3 might still be enjoyable, but ATrak's practically guaranteed that Dirty House Dub would be a monster. "}