{"label":" Grassroots","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15359/homepage_large.71b3c9d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Be Yourself: A Tribute to Graham Nash's Songs for Beginners","text":" As a member of the Hollies, as a solo artist, and especially as onethird of Crosby Stills & Nash, Graham Nash has exerted a strong influence on late2000s indie rock, acting as a touchstone to scores of earnest young folkies pushing harmonies to the forefront of rustic Americana. Although he was never quite as pervasive as Brian Wilson, Ian Curtis, or Bruce Springsteen indie's holy triumvirate of the last decade Nash's music has inspired pretty much any recent harmonizing group. In retrospect, it seems inevitable that artists would rally around Nash and especially his 1971 solo debut, Songs for Beginners, his most sustained and personal effort. Grassroots Records and (((folkYEAH!))) Presents have organized a trackbytrack tribute to that album, choosing the usual suspects to cover Nash's posthippie compositions: Fleet Foxes' Robin Pecknold, Vetiver, Alela Diane, and Mariee Sioux, among others.Out of either reverence or timidity, most of them stick pretty close to the originals. Covering \"Better Days\", Brendan Benson of the Raconteurs even retains Nash's eerie organ theme, which recreates the same ominous atmosphere. The best track, unsurprisingly, may be the one that takes the most liberties: Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy translates \"Simple Man\" into Spanish (\"Hombre Sencillo\") and recasts it as a mariachi tune. More than simply a stunt, it proves startlingly effective, as Oldham trusts Nash's plaintive hook to make sense in any language.A controlled singer who stood out even in CSN&Y, Nash was also one of the better songwriters to rise out of Woodstock Nation, with a good ear for conflating the personal with the political. That makes \"Military Madness\", the opening track on Songs for Beginners as well as Be Yourself, such a compelling song. It may be a peacenik anthem, but Nash anchors it in the story of his own birth: \"In an upstairs room in Blackpool, by the side of a northern sea,\" he sings, \"the army had my father, and my mother was having me.\" On their cover, Port O'Brien and the Papercuts emphasize those autobiographical details as singer Van Pierszalowski injects the song with a palpable sadness, as if he's actively trying to keep from growing jaded and cynical.To its credit, Be Yourself gives equal weight to both the folk and the pop halves of Nash's folkpop sound. Eschewing the twangy vibe of the original, the Moore Brothers highlight the twisty melody of \"Man in the Mirror\", while Sleepy Sun rough up the horndriven \"Chicago\". The folkies have it a bit tougher, though. Nile Nash can't figure out how to put her stamp on \"Wounded Bird\", which her father wrote following his breakup with Joni Mitchell. Rather than communicate that heavy heartache, her cover just sound wispy and slight. It could be anyone singing anyone else's song.On the other hand, Pecknold strums up an easygoing version of the title track, taking the verses solo and layering himself into an ethereal choir for the chorus. That roughhewn extemporaneity makes the lyrics sound like a personal mantra or an internal monologue rather than an exhortation to listeners. Too bad more artists didn't take that advice. It may be ironic to name a tribute album Be Yourself, but these artists take too few musical or interpretive risks, so how could the album possibly live up to that title? All it shows us is that Nash has many fans these days, but it doesn't really tell us why.  "}