{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15371/homepage_large.670387a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Here We Go Magic","title":"Pigeons","text":" Listeners crave tidy narratives. Thus, when \"Collector\", the second track from Here We Go Magic's second LP and first as a full band, Pigeons, began to make the blog rounds, there was quite a bit of chatter about the album possibly being the band's and its bandleader, Luke Temple's breakout moment. Makes sense: It's hard to listen to \"Collector\" one of the finest pieces of postSufjan Stevens chamber pop and not get excited about something. Can anyone be blamed for hoping that the rest of the record would endlessly vibe on that theme?Whatever the case, Pigeons is not the sparkling, fully realized breakout effort many of us hoped from this band. Nothing is as precisely organized and selfcontained as \"Collector\", as the album's other similarly rhythmic, pulsing moments arise more from Here We Go Magic's reliance on looped melodic fragments than any discernible krautrock influence. As such, Pigeons feels less divorced from the bedroom freakfolk of the project's selftitled debut (recorded by Temple all by his lonesome, with the assistance of a looping pedal or two) than it seems the logical extension of that aesthetic.Somewhat surprisingly, especially given the debut's minor faults, the woodshedded feel of Pigeons is a good look for the band. Here We Go Magic are doing something more interesting something weirder; they're trying out takes on jittery new wave, tonesmeared dreampop, and highpitched Kiwi pop with success. The normally frustrating aspect of transitional albums is that bands that make them tend to get lost in their own experimentation; instead, Here We Go Magic attack their shapeshifting sounds with enthusiasm and purpose, applying details like the honking keyboard line in \"Old World United\" and \"Hibernation\"'s bouncy bass to flesh out songs rather than as affectations.As such, Pigeons' most straightforward and formal moment, the shuffling ballad \"Bottom Feeder\", is the big brick here, mostly because of how comparatively uncomplicated it is. Sure, Temple's voice can be most affecting when accompanying an unadorned, superficially pretty melody but sandwiched between the spiky psychrock of \"Surprise\" and the (literally) astral throb of \"Moon\", the song is a momentum killer. Temple saves his biggest curveballs for the end the abstract 12 punch of \"Vegetable or Native\" and \"Herbie I Love You, Now I Know\" but they don't feel tossedoff or willfully obscured. Like the bulk of Pigeons, they represent a good band still finding its way to becoming a great one. Whether they'll reach the end of that path is another debate, but for now, listening to this group of folks mess around is still a treat. "}