{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15374/homepage_large.5dfa803d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Laurie Anderson","title":"Homeland","text":" Laurie Anderson's 40year career bucks classification, incorporating performance art, music, spoken word, video, and more. To mention John Zorn, Lou Reed, and Philip Glass only glosses her collaborations with the American avantgarde. She's also crossed over in interesting and unexpected ways, whether voicing a singing tot in The Rugrats Movie, or hitting #2 on the 1981 UK Singles Chart with \"O Superman (For Massenet)\", a doomsday anthem combining the vocoder with an aria from Le Cid. That angelic, robotic voice is often reprised on Homeland, her first new album in a decade, which fans will welcome as an heir to her definitive performance piece, United States. It's also a perfect starting point; an exquisite stateoftheunion dispatch as only Anderson, America's darkly comic conscience, can provide.A songful yet distressed NeoRomantic mode anchors forays into techno, jazz, drone, and minimal electronics. Topnotch guests like Zorn, Antony, and Kieran Hebden add their unique perspectives to Anderson's probing keyboards and violins. The music is spacious, mercurial, and thoroughly conceived. Anderson's vocals hover between speech and song, polemics and poetry, apocalyptic and redemptive fervors. And that's as far as generalizations will go. Homeland teems with the same variety and sprit as the U.S. itself.These songs have been developing live for years, so naturally, Iraq and Wall Street loom large. The persistence of those quandaries makes the material feel timely, even oracular, a quality for which Anderson is known. \"O Superman\" gained fresh attention after 911 for its images of American planes drawing ominously nearer. (On a lighter note, its vocals predicted everything from Imogen Heap's \"Hide and Seek\" to the ongoing AutoTune craze.) She's still broadcasting from the day after tomorrow. The organic house track \"Only an Expert\" schematically details the hubris of authorities who consolidate power by creating problems only they can solve. Had the album been delayed a little longer, a verse about the BP oil leak would have fit perfectly alongside the global warming controversy and the banking bailout.\"Only an Expert\" makes a pervasive, subtle theme momentarily explicit: How shared illusions about security and plenitude perpetuate a predictable cycle of cultural, environmental, and existential crises. But this threatens to make the album sound punitive, when somehow, Anderson's wrath feels compassionate. As \"Falling\" would have it, \"Americans, unrooted, blow with the wind/ But they feel the truth if it touches them.\" It's confrontational and beautiful, the grim tidings leavened with empathetic portraiture. \"Transitory Life\" is haunting and cunningly crafted. When Anderson sings that her dead grandmother \"made herself a bed inside my ear/ Every night I hear,\" the Tuvan throat singer from the song's intro reappears, the formless cries suddenly given a narrative role.But the epic \"Another Day in America\" is the album's huge, dark heart. Anderson's voice is pitched down and slowed she becomes her character on the cover, a slapstick figure of male authority over lingering strings and keyboards. The oration is a vortex of visionary proclamations, pointed fables, downbeat jokes. It makes palpable not only all the pathos and superstition of the American psyche, but the weight of time passing away another diminishing resource. Every malfunction of the status quo, Anderson implies, is a chance to start over, instead of rushing to rebuild what always breaks down. Her pessimism might not be comforting, but as oil continues to poison the Gulf of Mexico, it feels awfully prescient. "}