{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15365/homepage_large.53506b08.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Melvins","title":"The Bride Screamed Murder","text":" From the first 90 seconds of The Bride Screamed Murder (the sort of trashy Bmovie title perfect for the group's schoolbindermetal MO), it seems like this most recent incarnation of the Melvins longtime mainstays Buzz Osborne and Dale Crover, backed by Big Business' Jared Warren and Coady Willis is content to stay the course and follow the returntoform lead of their last two albums. That said, staying the course isn't exactly what the Melvins are best known for, so while the transformation of \"The Water Glass\" midtrack from stateoftheart sludge into an honesttogoodness marching song is unexpected, the fact that the Melvins opted to switch gears isn't a shocker. After all, it's following those sorts of counterintuitive impulses, for better (various Bsides from their 1997 AmRep singles collection) or worse (their Leif Garrettflavored cover of \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\"), that make this band worth a damn as it proudly trudges into its third decade.Unfortunately, The Bride Screamed Murder is one of those cases where taking the road less traveled leads to nowhere. Some fans might beg to differ, of course. They'll roll with the punches offered by indecisive threeinone tracks like \"Inhumanity and Death” and \"Electric Flower\". Maybe they'll view the arch grunge moves of \"Hospital Up\" as a pithy metacommentary, and get a chuckle out of the tune's Spinal Tap jazz odyssey roostercrowing coda. They might also get a kick out of the twerpy ending to \"I'll Finish You Off\", where someone's scattastic bebopping leads to the \"My Sharona\" hook is banged out while \"My Generation\" is sung over it. When it turns out that such an ending actually foreshadows a lugubrious Flipperlike stumble through \"My Generation\", what was a brief moment turns into a sevenminutelong joke.However, if that all doesn't sound appealing to you, you'll probably hear The Bride Screamed Murder as an album full of unfinished sketches and lazy doodles masquerading as proper tunes. The digressions will either come off as failed experiments or unfunny jokes, a handful of good ideas undercut by either their context or their brevity. Any patience engendered by the Melvins' countless good works will be tested by those willing to slog through this scattershot mess. The Bride Screamed Murder is the sort of album one might expect from a longinthetooth group trying to rediscover its purpose and rejuvenate itself. That it comes on the heels of what seemed to be the band's rejuvenation makes it all the more disappointing. "}