{"label":" Profan","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15383/homepage_large.ef511dcb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Wolfgang Voigt","title":"Freiland Klaviermusik","text":" This is a difficult record. It has all the hallmarks of a classic \"difficult\" record, too, whether we're talking techno or avantgarde classical or jazz or (as here) some merger of the three. It's repetitive, sometimes maddeningly so. Its sound palette is astringent at best and ugly at worst. Even the melodic elements are hammered out with a relentlessness that often turns them into queasy, percussive noise.Wolfgang Voigt has never shied away from difficulty, of course. Typically, it's taken the form of minimalism, but his most revered minimalist records have been lush, even outright beautiful. Studio 1, Burger/Ink, Gas: None of these aliases trafficked in audience alienation. Quite the reverse, in fact. Some may have revealed their pleasures immediately, as with Gas's deeply affecting mix of mountainsized melancholy and beatific calm. Others, like the protomicrohouse of Studio 1, required some acclimation time in order to hear the echoes of deep house warmth left after Voigt had gutted the genre of anything pop.I'm not sure if trying to acclimate yourself to the world of Freiland Klaviermusik will help in that regard. I've listened to it maybe a dozen times, sometimes straight through and sometimes with necessary breaks between three or four of its chilly tracks. It has yet to reveal any hidden warmth to me, and I'll be damned if I can hear the slightest suggestion of pop. Using what sounds like (possibly synthetic) piano fed through various studio effects like heavy reverb and nothing else Voigt creates 13 tracks that sometimes resemble a strange, drumless, almost monastic take on techno. But mostly Voigt positions himself as the next step in a lineage of experimental keyboard music.On Freiland Klaviermusik, you can hear La Monte Young's The WellTuned Piano, where endless strings of notes refuse to resolve into a melody for more than a few seconds; Cecil Taylor's solo sound clashes, where the left hand pounds the piano's bass range into submission and the right hand tries to unlearn several decades of virtuoso schooling; but especially Conlon Nancarrow's player piano scores, where that fusty emblem of old west kitsch is made to sound like gunfire, or a factory at peak production, or computer gibberish.Even Voigt's repetition the album's only real structuring device, what keeps it from feeling like free improvisation has very little to do with dance music. The merciless throb of synth bass or synth bassrange piano chords on tracks like \"Zimmer\" may remind you of the darkest end of techno. But there's not an ounce of disco fun in its lowend menace. It's actually queasy at times, especially if you're listening on headphones.The album's not all spookedout gloom and crazymaking twonote chords repeated past the point of endurance, of course. The faintest hint of light appears with \"Schweres Wasser\" think bright Reich/Glass brand minimalism played by an overexcited child prodigy and the final third of the album starts to feel like a series of (very) abstract jazz ballads. But from a man that gave the world the concept of \"pop ambient,\" this is an instrumental album that's solely for the hardcore. "}