{"label":" Cake","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15388/homepage_large.6f140ece.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"The Cool Kids","title":"Tacklebox","text":" If it's Halloween, it must be Saw, and if it's Memorial Day, it must be a new Cool Kids release. For the third year in a row, Chicago's Chuck Inglish and Mikey Rocks have infused the threeday weekend with another batch of retrominded boombap tracks about clothes, stereo systems, and herb, all in time for BBQ season. We may never see their long promised debut LP When Fish Ride Bicycles, but these guys clearly have a handle on their audience and their unwavering aesthetic. Not to mention you'll likely have to pay for that release if the guys ever sort out their label woes. In the meantime, Tacklebox is a freebie, and about as close to an album as a mixtape gets, save for the territorial but relatively unobtrusive jabbering of tape hosts LA Leakers.As with last year's Gone Fishin' and their breakout The Bake Sale EP, Tacklebox finds Inglish crafting spacious, drumcentric beats, over which he and Rocks engage in a rap delivery so zonkedout, it flies in the face of such infrequent weed referencing. This chill approach has always been part of the Kids' routine and the source of much of their charm. They bounce their clever, foggy raps off of each other in ways that seem so effortless, you almost wonder if the they even knew they were being recorded.On Tacklebox, there's more sneakerfetishism (\"Don't tie your shoes that tight, it looks ugly\") and colorfully irreverent wordplay (\"They pay a lot for features, I like lobster pieces/ Can't teach these thing twice, peace, nice to meet ya\"), all spat nearly pancake flat. But where this kind of languid approach helped them carve out a niche, the Cool Kids are at a point where their vision of \"laid back\" is getting a little stale. Often borderline expressionless, Inglish and Rocks usually glue themselves to the beat and ride at whatever BPM the production dictates. Somehow, Tacklebox manages to ratchet that down even lower than usual.Inglish clearly takes pride in his work behind the boards each track on the download is tagged with a production credit, with Inglish handling all but two cuts and collaborating on a third. But the beats are so dresseddown that the same the skittery 808s and bass kicks lurch and stall without some tuneful guidance, which the occasional tiny synth squelch or laser accent fail to provide. When Inglish plays outside his comfort zone, these tracks open up: \"Systems\" leans heavy on the robofunk, while the fracturedjazz of the Tribeflavored \"Great Outdoors\" and the obtusely poppy, Duran Duran vibing \"Strawberry Girl\" hit the pop pleasure centers hard. And even though highlight \"Good Afternoon\" was produced by the Productionix which flips a Califunked beach jam into some gooey, breathless 1970s soul it shows that the Cool Kids still know how to do the \"laid back\" thing without leaving us to worry if they've been chloroformed. If nothing else, there is proof here that if given the right mood and energy, the Cool Kids still might make a really good LP. On the other hand, perhaps they've already saturated the market for their narrow aesthetic, leaving little room for development or surprise. "}