{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15379/homepage_large.acf687c9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Breaks and Beats","text":" Here's a backstory you don't hear every day. The Numero Group, the consummate Chicago cratediggers, found out that a vinyl bootleg of sampled material from their Eccentric Soul series was making the rounds. It comprised dozens, possibly hundreds of loops, breaks, and vocal snippets copped from as many as 70 Eccentric Soul releases strung together in a 40minute DJ mix. As salt in the wound, the nondescriptlooking 12\" was stamped with a punny label: \"Numbero.\" \"We've been bootlegged before, certainly... but this really takes the cake\", Numero wrote in a blog post.Ready to shut down the counterfeit operation, \"an interesting thing happened,\" Numero said. \"We kinda got hooked on the flawlessly arranged pastiche.\" So they did some digging, and discovered the DJs behind the mix were the mysterious production team Shoes, creators of lauded underground remixes and edits of everyone from Al Green to Detroithouse hero Moodymann. Numero decided to flip the script: They seized the vinyl from the pressing plant and released the bootleg themselves, even keeping the \"Numbero\" imprint.Unprecedented as it sounds, there's plenty of history for this sort of release. Some of pop's most famous records started out as bootlegs from Dylan's Basement Tapes to the Beach Boys' original Smile and Prince's shelvedforyears Black Album from 1987. In each case, the public's desire to hear these albums outstripped the record company's wish to keep them under wraps, and Numero is smart to get out in front of this mix because it's precisely the kind of thing people would track down regardless. (Not to mention the savvy it takes to recognize a great mix when you hear one and, uh, bootleg your own bootleg.)The album works on a few levels. It's first and foremost an excellent breaks record in the grand tradition of Street Beat's Ultimate Breaks and Beats series from the late 80s. (The title and dodgy skeleton cover art is an homage to that collection.) But there's more to it than that. The album is both a reverential snapshot of the breadth of the Eccentric Soul series and a pretty seamless DJ mix in its own right. It can be a little difficult to tackle, though. The record's split into two long tracks essentially a Side A and B and Shoes rearrange the source material in such a way that it's nearly impossible to identify all of the original songs.But that digging is part of the fun with an album like this, and there are noteworthy tracks for soul connoisseurs to pick out. Them Two's \"Am I a Good Man\" makes an appearance on Side A, spilling into a locktight groove; Side B opens with the Four Mints' \"Row My Boat\" and pulls a funky guitar line from the Majestic Arrows' \"Going to Make a Time Machine\". Shoes take great pains, though, to weave all these tracks into long, grooveheavy sections that take on a life of their own. Ultimately the result feels a lot like samplebased records by DJ Shadow or the Avalanches you know a ton of work went into it, but it still sounds effortless. "}