{"label":" Waaga","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15384/homepage_large.fa5fed21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Florene","title":"Homemade Extacy","text":" Florene are a duo from Denton, Texas, and their debut, Homemade Extacy, pulls from a few different sounds. At times, it recalls Fuck Buttons' danceimbued static throb, the grinding industrial rock of HEALTH, Holy Fuck's electro postrock patchwork, and to a lesser extent, Trans Am's stadiumrock pranksterisms. Music in his vein thrives when it focuses on the tension between noise and melody. Florene's tracks seem to be searching for that sweet spot that comes when visceral electronics meet sweeping arrangements.There are moments on Homemade Extacy where Florene show some promise. The stretchedout vocals on \"Street Caring\" work well enough paired with the track's zigzagging synth lines, while the electronic screams that take out album closer \"Space Cadets\" or the awesomely ravedout shouts that open \"Invitation to Sailing\" might have you seeing stars, if you're in the right headspace. But these moments are just that small bits of something interesting that never manage to coalesce or build momentum.Despite the basic immediacy of their splatterelectro approach, Homemade Extacy winds up feeling a bit faceless. The biggest issue is that the melodies aren't built on strong foundations. \"Deal With It\" and the opening title track repeat the same ultrajacked theme endlessly, without much development or variation. Elsewhere, the fogged moans and low tones of \"Depth\" just seem to hover on the surface, and the nearly sixminute track, like so many others here, fails to justify its length.All of these complaints are just minor quibbles, though, next to the album's greatest weakness: it sounds terrible. Every element of every song is mixed way, way into the red. Throughout, nuance and layering are discarded in favor of an annoying sonic antagonism. By using this earbleeding technique exclusively, Florene miss the thing that gives the best noise music its force, using harsh sounds in a way that highlights shifts in dynamics and allows for some surprise. Despite the small bits of potential that crop up here and there, for most of Homemade Extacy, the music never hints at transcendence, which in this world is everything. "}