{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15393/homepage_large.48616b89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Walls","title":"Walls","text":" Walls are two guys with similar taste but different skill sets. Alessio Natalizia is the more traditional musician of the pair, known mostly for his dreamy bedroom pop as Banjo or Freakout. Sam Willis is a producer and cofounder of the popular dance podcast series AllezAllez. They both live in London, share a deep affinity for the kraut and ambient sounds of bands like Neu! and Harmonia, and linked up last year when AllezAllez remixed the Banjo or Freakout track \"Dr. No\". Together they make music that sits at the middle point between their individual projects slowburning guitar pop with a propulsive dance backdrop.Their selftitled debut offers a downcast, almost shoegazer take on club music. Tracks are primarily instrumental and center on the contrast between Natalizia's treated guitars and Willis' crude synths. The production's on the lofi end, but it lends an evocative quality to the record, and the best songs play up the nostalgia with aching hooks. Opener \"Burnt Sienna\" is a good example of their range. It starts out with some light drum pitterpatter and ambient wash, builds into a powerful guitar drone, then opens up halfway through with a trashy synth melody. All the noisier bits suddenly become danceable and the song moves from anxiousness to something more hopeful.Not everything on the record is quite this good, though there are a handful of other noteworthy tracks. \"Soft Cover People\" is another fine mixture of ambient noise and electronic melody; \"Gaberdine\" takes a techy Computer Worldstyle arrangement and flips it into something straightup haunting. But there's also some interstitial stuff here that feels slight songs like \"Cylopean Remains\" and \"Strawberry Sect\" don't hold up so well on their own. And ultimately they make the record feel a bit scattered and tossedoff, more like a side project than a cohesive statement. Still, if you're interested in the intersection of all these sounds ambient, bedroom pop, noise, drone, techno there's surely something here for you. "}