{"label":" Epitaph","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6638/homepage_large.ed32cb67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Refused","title":"The Shape of Punk to Come: A Chimerical Bombination in 12 Bursts [Deluxe Edition]","text":" No band has ever mastered the ominous cymbal tap quite like Refused. On the Swedish hardcore band's final album and masterpiece, David Sandström's shivering tings signal a sort of warning. They usually come right as the band launches from tense, coiled quiet into allout assault or, if they're already in assault mode, from one headspinning riff to another. Those transitions come up a lot on 1998's The Shape of Punk to Come, and they keep you on your toes. Throughout the record, the band found some platonic ideal of tensionandrelease, mutating constantly and pulling in all sorts of vaguely silly genreleap ideas (chintzy techno beats! jazz breaks!) without altering the fundamental heaviness that they were so great at. It's the sound of a worldclass hardcore band deciding that they're done with hardcore, that they want to push their music in all sorts of unexpected directions, and then just ending up with an amazing hardcore album at the end.The Shape of Punk to Come has always been an album with a certain mystique, from the Ornette Colemanreferencing title (Coleman tweaked the title of a book by H.G. Wells for his LP The Shape of Jazz to Come) to the cloudsgathering whisper of a closing track, \"The Apollo Programme Was a Hoax\". It's far and away the best thing Refused ever did, and it's also the album that broke Refused up; they could reportedly barely stand each other by the time they got done with the thing. Besides the worldexploding album, Epitaph's new reissue includes all kinds of extras: A furious live album, a documentary, the incredibly pretentious original liner notes, music videos, and footage of the band playing every song on the album in concert. It's a lot to get through, and it's almost all rewarding; you learn, through crystalline recordings and grainy video, that Refused were the type of live band that would slice the top of your skull off.But what the whole package doesn't offer  is a sense of context. For all the bluster of the title, it's not like the album invented angular guitar spazzouts or prevented punk rock, as a whole, from falling into MySpaceemo hell a few years later (though it is telling that Paramore arguably the best of the MySpace emo wave, for whatever that's worth liberally quoted Refused's \"Liberation Frequency\" on their first album). Refused Are Fuckin Dead, the accompanying documentary, is supposed to explain why the band broke up in the wake of this clarioncall album, but it mostly just consists of artedup landscape shots and exband members speaking as vaguely as possible about how much pressure they put on themselves. (Pet peeve: No chyrons to identify who's talking. Come on.) We don't learn what these guys did.So here's what I think they did: They synthesized some of the greatest ideas to come out of American hardcore in the 1990s, and gave them just enough production sheen so that they sounded huge. Nation of Ulysses and Born Against were two of Refused's favorite reference points, and you can hear Nation of Ulysses' sloganeering, offkilter skronk and Born Against's grainy, ferocious allangles roar all over the album. But neither of those bands ever produced a document as viscerally gripping as The Shape of Punk to Come. That's partly because those bands never cared much for fidelity, whereas you can feel every one of Refused's snarerolls in your chest. But it's also because Refused were great songwriters.It's a stretch to link what this band did to Sweden's tradition for popcraft; after all, they weren't working with versechorusverse structures or striving for melodic clarity. But it's pretty amazing how intuitively the members of Refused knew how to put together a hardcore song. Every track holds back at the right moments, explodes at the right moments. \"New Noise\", now and forever their defining statement, has an intro that lasts more than a minute insinuating, building, teasing, drawing back, and then suddenly shooting off out of nowhere. And when it kicks in, singer Dennis Lyxzén screaming, \"Can I scream?!\" as the guitars blast in behind him, is just a singularly thrilling moment of music. The guitarcrunch frenzy and Ric Flair whoops that follow are monstrous, but it's that intro that sticks with me.And the album has plenty more moments that annihilate. Lyxzén's yelping, pleading, wailing vocal on \"Liberation Frequency\". The shockingly pretty quiet bits on \"Protest Song '68\", right before the fragmentbomb drums rip through. The epic, mournful gypsy violin on \"Tannäuser/Derivè\". The album absolutely does not sound like the work of a group of dudes who aren't speaking to each other. Rhythmically, all members are lockedin, feeding off each other's energy and authority. (Even without those cymbal taps, you could make a pretty good case for Sandström as the best punk drummer ever; he's on fire throughout.) They also sound like they trust each other enough to allow in potentially dubious ideas, like the cheesy Casiotechno breaks that occasionally pop up. And even those moments work in the context of the album; they're the parts where you get to compose yourself in anticipation of the next onslaught.Those techno bits underline how over the top The Shape of Punk to Come can get, sometimes to the point of ridiculousness. The first lyric on the thing is this awkwardasfuck line: \"I got a bone to pick with capitalism, and a few to break.\" The title of the song \"Deadly Rhythm\", it turns out, refers to \"the production line.\" But as hammy as those gestures might be, they also reinforce the album's central theme: Complacency is a creeping, crippling disease, one that every structure of society seeks to encourage, and it's something you have to flail against constantly, every day. As simplistic as that concept might be, it's also a potent one, and it led these guys, screaming in their second language, to make an album as brainobliterating as this one even if it spun them to pieces in the process. "}