{"label":" Mute / City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15396/homepage_large.171eb563.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Junip","title":"Rope and Summit EP","text":" José González cashes paystubs from Mute and is best known for covering Joy Division, the Knife, and Massive Attack, but his lowkey charms as a singersongwriter are never going to be considered \"edgy.\" The building blocks of his music lightly plucked guitar, unhurried vocals, the occasional antiestablishment lyric makes it understandable for skeptics to paint him as merely a dormroom fave. But even though it sounds strange to say, \"there's more beyond the surface,\" to his unadorned music, at points Veneer and In Our Nature felt like what Krautrock or even minimal techno might sound like if they consisted solely of acoustic guitars. While it wasn't a sound that gave him a lot of room to maneuver, there always was underlying rhythmic force that could be hypnotic and haunting at the same time. And it's a quality that his reformed band Junip amplifies, quite literally, on Rope and Summit.\"Got a rope and summit,\" González sings repeatedly at the outset, and while it's an economically evocative lyric, it's a bit of misdirection as to how Junip works. Theirs is a sound that doesn't move upward so much as downhill, accumulating its mass with sheer momentum. What's interesting is how little González needs to be pushed. A solo version of \"Rope and Summit\" might have been the most propulsive thing on any of his prior albums, but Elias Araya's drumwork gives it a vital pulse, while Tobias Winterkorn's drafty synths put meat on the bones. The rhythm section plays with a steady hand throughout Rope, favoring simplicity and shade while retaining the uncluttered sonic arranging that so often serves as a trademark of González's.But while the first half of Rope and Summit seems to suggest that Junip could very well be González songs hooked up to jumper cables, \"At the Doors\" and \"Loops\" show that they can go slack without falling apart or falling asleep. The former rides its dank bassline and rumbling tom fills for eight mesmerizing minutes, feeling like it was effortlessly unearthed from a jam session that could've gone on for twice as long. And when González gently sings \"disconnect the loops\" on Rope's gorgeous final track, it reflects on a looseness that fits somewhere between the late Talk Talk's more exploratory compositions (its central riff does have a passing resemblance to \"Taphead\") and the supine sungazing of Brightblack Morning Light.I'll concede that the actual \"rock\" factor of \"Jose González's rock band\" is overplayed: The only distortion on Rope pops up as a light dusting on González's vocals. But what can't be overstated is that this is a band, and one that plays with a sympathy toward each member's sounds, so that Rope comes off like the work of a band that's been together for a decade rather than off and on. We won't have to wait long to hear more from Junip a fulllength drops in September, and if it holds serve from Rope, the only disappointment will be that González could've been holding out on us for too long. "}