{"label":" ","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15398/homepage_large.fa3036b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"T.I.","title":"Fuck a Mixtape","text":" Halfway through Fuck a Mixtape, T.I.'s new mixtape, Tip lets loose with a tiny slice of information that I believe absolutely: \"My movie agent Brian always ask me what I'm rapping for/ It's passion; I wouldn't trade it for all the diamonds out in Africa.\" As an actor, T.I. is good, not great; his roles in ATL and American Gangster don't exactly suggest that's capable of going all Will Smith on us. But it's easy to see some Hollywood bottomfeeder blowing smoke up the man's ass, trying to convince him to leave behind the nomoney world of music now that he's famous enough. But on Fuck a Mixtape, T.I. shows something that he's already shown over and over again: He's simply a magnificent rapper, perfectly in control of voice and flow and meter and cadence, able to convey volumes in a throwaway punchline and an adlib. And you don't get that good at rapping unless you love rapping. (Personal to Brian: Shut the fuck up, Brian.)The central unifying concept of Fuck a Mixtape, such as it is, is that T.I. is too good for mixtapes, that he's bigger than mixtapes, that he's sick of being compared to rappers who only have a couple of mixtapes out but here's a mixtape anyway. In skits, comedians jump on to urge Tip to make an actual album, and on the outro, T.I. fumes about how mixtapes are completley beneath him. And yet here this is. It's not a plannedout albumlength statement the same way, say, Yelawolf's Trunk Muzik or Big K.R.I.T.'s K.R.I.T. Wuz Here is; it's just a collection of random tracks that Tip had lying around, tracks that probably aren't quite good enough to make his next fulllength. The songs here have big producers (Timbaland, Swizz Beatz, Jim Jonsin) and big guests (Lil Wayne, Young Jeezy, Keri Hilson), but they mostly don't have those indelible, sticky hooks that T.I. is so good at. And given that much of T.I.'s greatest work is also his most commercially seismic (\"What You Know\"), Fuck a Mixtape immediately registers as Minor Tip.But that said, it's also a thrilling testament to T.I.'s pure rapping ability, which, it bears repeating, is frankly incredible. And at this point, T.I.'s rapping ability is something that needed proving. He's now back home after spending almost a year in prison on a gun charge that could've sent him away for much, much longer, and rappers can often lose a step when they finish up prison sentences; see Shyne's recent output for a dispiriting example. But T.I. remains in beast mode throughout the tape, attacking every track with a vengeful bile we haven't heard from him in a minute. There are no introspective, soulsearching songs here; he's not concerned with letting us know anything more than how pathetic we are. But he does that with great style, slipping in and out of different rhyme patterns and letting devastating putdowns just slip out: \"Want the title? Buck for it, it's yours/ But you're getting ignored because you're so pisspoor.\"There are throwaway tracks here, for sure, but even those tend to come with at least one moment that leaves me shaking my head at how good this guy still is. And the highlights are a lot of fun. God knows when Tip and Wayne recorded \"Yeah\", since Wayne was headed off to prison around the time Tip came home, but they giddily trade off lines and complement each other beautifully, Wayne's cartoonish lope a great foil for Tip's lockedin snarl. T.I. also repurposes Ice Cube's \"Once Upon a Time in the Projects\", using it to tell a story that actually works as pure narrative. \"Welcome Back to the Trap\" is vintage regal Trap Muzik shit, with a great organblasted beat.And on \"Get Yo Girl\", T.I. raps over the same airy synthblipping beat that Rich Boy and Yelawolf used on the great but unheralded single \"Go Crazy\". Rich Boy and Yelawolf treated that song like a potential anthem; T.I. just uses it to tell you how lame your girl is: \"Her breath smell like Corona and Patron and marijuana/ She giving me her number, I ain't gonna telephone her.\" Rich Boy and Yelawolf got a better song out of it, but T.I. just sounds cooler. That's what Fuck a Mixtape is: An hour of T.I. sounding cool as fuck. It's reassuring. "}