{"label":" Lefse","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15399/homepage_large.05c2b35f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Keepaway","title":"Baby Style EP","text":" Even though the formerly awesome circumstance of being inundated with new music has led to a situation where, as Pitchfork's Nitsuh Abebe wrote, \"a highschool kid in Montana can talk about how sick she is of minor trends in Williamsburg,\" the incentive with keeping up is the belief that lifechanging, \"let's start a band\" albums come out with a frequency that makes it worth the trouble. Which leads to a weird double standard: Would you automatically think less of a band, however new, if they came out and claimed their major influences were records that came out a year ago?It's something that feels awfully prevalent when discussing Keepaway's Baby Style EP: not that Animal Collective invented floortoms, vocal triggers, birdcall harmonies, or production that sounds like you record inside a water bong. They did, however, make it very popular, and maybe Baby Style would exist asis if Merriweather Post Pavilion wasn't topping 2009 lists by the boatload; there'd just be fewer blogs assuming the Brooklyn trio was a shooin for 2010 lists.Yet while there are plenty of bands drawing from similar inspiration, 99% of them likely won't come up with a single as immediately ingratiating as \"Yellow Wings\". What's interesting about \"Yellow Wings\", and its followup \"Family of the Son\" is how at their core, the vocal cadences, spindly guitar figures, and insistent drum beats would've evoked Modest Mouse five years ago. Even it's main lyric, \"I think I finally know what I want/ I want to be two places at once,\" has a certain Isaac Brockian logic to it, though in context, it's more a statement of overwhelming wanderlust than existential dread. But check the updated, totally saturated recording: samples stuttering and humidified reverb filling up every open pore. It's crowded, but hardly lonesome.Unfortunately, Baby Style's strong introduction is undermined by its remaining three tracks, and you hear a band that too conveniently compartmentalizes itself: \"I Think About You All The Time\" paints with the fluorescent synths of MGMT, and the lyrics themselves could be charitably seen as a parody of the duo's more proggish fantasies (\"Imagine a warm labyrinth/ A pair of brown shoes in violets.\") It's not a totally jarring turn until the backend of Baby Style (\"5 Rings\", \"Evil Lady\") tries to cop the freeflowing bliss of Person Pitch. Their loops and harmonies lack depth and warmth, and the drummachine switcheroos from reggae shuffle to sopping dub to a waltz wrapped in aluminum are distracting instead of effortless.So yeah, Baby Style is about as zeitgeisty as an EP in 2010 can get short of an Ariel Pink tribute, but does it suffer from having the bad timing of not coming out 10 years from now? What separates them from bands like Cymbals Eat Guitars or Wild Nothing that are every bit as indebted, albeit from different points in history? Namely, either a strong enough command of their influences to master an inhabitable universe of them or a prism of personality that lets you know where their record collection ends and Keepaway begin. And it makes Baby Style feel less like a whole artistic statement than a hedgebetting demo: I can tell what Keepaway's been listening to, but hopefully their Lefse fulllength will give a better idea of what makes them tick. "}