{"label":" Peoples Potential Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15414/homepage_large.8f24df7c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Peoples Potential Family Album","text":" The early 1980s was a strange period for funk, an unstable zone between the impending decline of disco at the tail end of 1979 and the skyrocketing megablockbuster ascendance of Thriller and 1999 in the winter months of 198283. For every group that managed to adapt to the Linn Drum era and score some actual hits, there were a dozen others that learned the hard way how tricky it was to maintain their funk credentials while adapting to the new sounds that the market demanded. These were the groups that stayed in their own local orbits, putting out independent and privatelabel releases that attempted to negotiate the disco/funk split with a foot on each dancefloor before finally clicking with the synthesized future.This is the realm that Peoples Potential Unlimited operates in, and Peoples Potential Family Album is a fine collection of the D.C. label's most interesting rediscoveries so far. Label operator Andrew Morgan is one of those curator types who takes pains to not only license his finds but track down the originators and give them their due. And this first compilation is a labor of cratedigger love that doubles as a look into the groundlevel versions of vintage 80s funk archetypes from rollerboogie to gogo, recorded with garageband looseness and studio polish alike.The first few tracks in the collection stand firmly on the side of the former. These are bands that, in an earlier era, would have fit in well with the lofi, J.B.'sinfluenced woodshedder aspirants featured on collections of early and mid70s nuggets like The Funky 16 Corners and Jazzman's regional compilations. The gritty, discoinformed soul of tracks like Minority Band's \"Live\" and T.M.S.'s \"Get the Feelin\" are raw without being sloppy. There's actually something kind of rearviewlooking about this stuff even through all the fat analog keyboards and Nile Rodgersinformed guitar, you can tell these bands were reaching back to the early70s likes of B.T. Express and the Ohio Players even as they surged toward a rejuvenated new incarnation of funk.Then again, there's actually a song here called \"Rejuvenate the Fonk\", by the Oklahoma group Satellite Band, and its slap bass, squiggly keyboards, and handclapheavy backbeat could place it as this compilation's figurehead. The core of Peoples Potential Family Album is the gleaming, synthesized boogie that personified the times, and if it's maybe a halfstep below the best moments of Rick James or the Gap Band, that still puts these discoveries in a pretty impressive class. The crisp, sophisticated bounce of Midnight Express' \"Danger Zone\", Caprice's coolly seductive \"Candy Man\" (featuring Apollonia's sister Larnette Winston on vocals), and Checker Kabb's rubbery jam \"By My Side\" could've been R&B hits with a little more polish, luck, and distribution. As they turned out here, they're simply good examples of how smaller regional groups fit in to the bigger picture of an era in exciting stylistic flux.Like most rare groove compilations, there are just enough examples of weird, amateurish novelty to provide a bit of offkilter personality. NoLa group Crunch's 1982 split \"Cruise\"/\"Funky Beat\" and the dub of MixORap's \"All Party People\" drizzle wandering, frequently offbeat keyboard noodling over their supple percussion, and it feels like everything starts ricocheting at odd angles after a point. Stranger still is the Ballplayers, the circa1980 musical side project of MLB journeymen Lenny Randle and Thad Bosley, whose instrumental \"Universal Language\" is a slice of wahwah discofunk that falls somewhere between Denny McLain's late60s loungeHammond LPs and the 1986 single \"Get Metsmerized\" on the baseballplayerasmusician quality scale. But that's just the kind of label PPU is: championing gems and oddities alike, unearthing finds that shouldn't have been buried in the first place, and elevating longlost couldabeens into a new generation's underheard heritage. "}