{"label":" Audraglint","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15406/homepage_large.68e84fa0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Signaldrift","title":"Two Agents","text":" Franz Bucholtz started Signaldrift in 1998 as a solo project; John Goelzer joined him in 2005, and this is their first record as a duo. Hence the title Two Agents but that also fits their music, which melds IDM, krautrock, and postrock with schizophrenic results. Not that there's much conflict or discordance during this 60minute double LP. Each track is smooth and wellcrafted, with straightforward beats that avoid sharp angles and sudden shifts. The duality comes in how that approach can swerve from highly interesting to predictably rote. In that sense, Two Agents strikes me as a midpoint between two recent records on Smalltown Supersound, Lindstrøm's Where You Go I Go Too and Kim Hiorthøy's My Last Day. Where the former filled longform IDM with subtle tension and expansive range, the latter's melodic techno was pretty formulaic, though even its numbest tracks were entertaining.Two Agents is pretty entertaining too Bucholtz and Goelzer know how to make a strong, pulsing beat, and how to build momentum as it rolls steadfastly forward. When their simple minimalism clicks, it has a gravity that fully engages. On \"Sweet Freedom\", the duo lock into a Neu!like groove that never hits overdrive, yet still creates thick atmosphere. The same is doubly true of \"Tense Situations\", whose quaking bass line and soaring overtones evoke both postpunk and postrock, like Mogwai covering Joy Division.But Signaldrift's monochromatic beats can paralyze them into autopilot, like a machine left running while its operators take a break. Take \"Planetarium\", whose stock bass line and mild accents are more wallpaper than texture. Or \"Yesterday's Tomorrows\", which evokes the pretty lilt of Psychedelic Furs without the tense counterpoint of Richard Butler's voice. In those moments, the duo's restraint sands down potential edges into softness. The results are often catchy and propulsive certainly good workout music, often on par with LCD Soundsytem's 45:33. But, as with Hiorthøy's work, you sense that if some execs made minor tweaks, many of these songs could soundtrack TV commercials or corporate promos.Still, it would be unfair to judge Two Agents solely by its weaker moments. For an hour's worth of music made with one holistic approach, the album boasts lots of engrossing sections, and no unpleasant moments. Next time out, maybe Signaldrift will splatter some paint outside their taut canvasses, and trust that harder edges and wider divergences won't sully the essential attraction of their music. You can hear the potential for that bubbling under the surface of Two Agents, so it shouldn't take much for Signaldrift to punch some new holes in their sonic shell. "}