{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15408/homepage_large.0de22e34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Cold Cave","title":"Life Magazine Remixes EP","text":" Another remix album: With an endless glut of these reworkings often within alarming proximity of the source material the results can feel hurried, another example of the industry feeling as if it needs to constantly feed the quick blog news cycles a steady stream of content. But occasionally an online environment can also help nurture the art of the remix, allowing artists to be more open and spontaneous with these treatments, often posting the results free. Case in point: \"Life Magazine\", the first single from darkwave noiseniks Cold Cave's debut, Love Comes Close four of the six tracks collected here (the digital purchase features two bonus cuts not found on the 12\") can be found over in the Forkcast section of this website.So the idea of the Life Magazine Remixes EP seemed somewhat superfluous. Fortunately, Life Magazine Remixes is a rare remix venture that feels strikingly cohesive, containing the dramatic arc of a long player and providing a varied array of interpretations that not only celebrate the original cut but are clearly marked by each remixer's unique voice. The result is not simply a cobbledtogether, fansonly collector's item, but a genuinely wellpaced and thoughtful work.Famed electro producer Arthur Baker's \"Not Going Back Remix\" is a perfect way to open the EP and reacquaint the listener with \"Life Magazine\", as he grabs the juiciest pieces of the original and reinforces them. Of all the tracks here, Baker's stays closest to the source material, splicing and enhancing in a way that's practically remix 101. Here, he chops the synth while slowly recombining the song's vocal and percussive elements: The result is \"Life Magazine\" amplified a beefed up, movementconcentrated piece.Glasgow DJ tagteam Optimo subscribe to a similar clubfriendly vibe, even if both of their remixes (their \"Flexi Pop\" offering is one of two digitalonly tracks, alongside a terrific jungledup house jam from Delorean) operate way outside the given source material. The \"Espacio\" mix is overstuffed with sound effects, but Optimo manage to lock down a tubular, funkheavy groove and enlist some largerthanlife synths. Clubby but in a very dreamy, narcotic kind of way, Optimo place Caralee McElroy's vocal out in front, warping her into some sort of cosmic diva entity a neat trick considering Cold Cave's murky aesthetic.While the Aside helps reupholster some of Cold Cave's poppier elements, the Bsides do their best to deconstruct and redirect the focus on the band's affinity for mood and texture. The tailend of \"Espacio\" dampens and darkens its sound a bit, and if you don't have to fuss with flipping the record over, blends really nicely into the ambientminded German producer Pantha du Prince's \"First Flash Remix\". Pantha's offering is expectedly outthere, giving way to some highdifficulty listening his dizzying array of clapping percussion and clipped pieces mold into something uncomfortable and strangely pretty. But it's Cold Cave member Dominick Fernow's remix as Prurient that pushes the envelope furthest and succeeds the easiest, employing what feels like an army of corroded, stabbing synths and tremendous feedback that transforms \"Life Magazine\" into a punishing, expertly constructed noise anthem. It's one highlight among many on a 40minute EP that explores the extremes of \"Life Magazine\", as its remixers deconstruct and help recontextualize the original without simply milking its familiar charms. "}