{"label":" Allido","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15411/homepage_large.67d25293.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Rhymefest","title":"El Che","text":" It's hard not to want to root for Rhymefest. The Chicago hiphop vet is talented, creative, and genuinely funny, and he has struggled mightily to carve his own path as a rapper to little recognition. Before Wale released his Mixtape About Nothing, Fest put out his own oddball fulllength mixtape, Man in the Mirror, a goofy and affecting tribute to Michael Jackson where he rapped over tracks of the Jacksons fooling around in the studio and talked back to MJ's interview footage. It was an ambitiously odd and unique project, and it was roundly ignored. His career is a series justmisses: On 2006's Blue Collar, Fest rapped over a loop of the Strokes' \"Someday\", years before B.o.B. decided to start mauling Vampire Weekend songs, and the record bricked. He won a Grammy for cowriting \"Jesus Walks\", but Kanye axed his verse from the final version.No one's more aware of this than Rhymefest, of course, and on El Che, the endlessly delayed followup to Blue Collar, he's doing his best not to let bitterness get to him. \"Used to be on J Records/ Wrote some Kanye records/ Next Grammy's just mine, this is El Che's record\" he declares, early on, in \"Talk My Shit\". It's not long, though, before all those missed opportunities start to nag at him, and on El Che, they're mostly personified by rappers like Wale and Charles Hamilton, who rode his tricks to wider notice than he did. \"Even before Wale bricked, I tried to pull 'em aside and say, 'them white boys won't sell your shit',\" he claims later on \"Talk My Shit\", and it feels unpleasantly like gloating. Fest excoriates hipster rappers memorably \"boy put some bass in your voice, you sound intimate/ Hiphop's supposed to have edge, you're so innocent,\" he sneers but hearing him grumble about tight jeans and heap insults on someone as woebegone as Charles Hamilton is disheartening, and it deflates the whole \"embattled revolutionary\" theme of El Che.Rhymefest doesn't have it in him to be righteous anyway, and it's one of his most appealing qualities. Even when he addresses issues larger them himself, he does so in the same goofy deadpan he uses to crack dumb jokes about Tiger Woods. He does layer in a genuinely affecting personal detail here and there, lamenting on \"How High\" how a felony charge kept him from voting for Obama, but he's quick to smooth it out with a joke. He compares himself to Hellboy on \"Chicago\", and it more or less completely encapsulates his onrecord personality: a grumbling, cantankerous, lovable doofus with more on his mind than you might expect.Like the much betterfinanced Blue Collar, El Che is a bumpy, imperfect ride. There's no Just Blaze or Kanye production this time around, but that's no excuse for beats that often scan as tepid and anonymous. And while Rhymefest is a rocksolid rapper this is the guy who once beat Eminem in Scribble Jam, after all he also blunts his own impact with corny jokes. And then there's \"Agony\", about which I can only say that Rhymefest was someone most rap listeners probably weren't looking for an incredibly graphic sex jam from: \"you're like my Buick\" is the most illustrative and safest lyric I could find. In some ways, last year's The Manual mixtape is a far stronger document of Fest's skills. The free mixtape boasted guest spots from legends like CL Smooth and Sadat X and even Queen Latifah, and it situated Rhymefest among an older generation of rappers. He sounded more at home in their company than he ever has in the present day. "}