{"label":" Dial","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15420/homepage_large.4e7be0a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Efdemin","title":"Chicago","text":" Efdemin's eponymous debut played a neat trick: It took creative source material field recordings, bells, acid bass and molded them into an album that sounded almost too composed. Efdemin seems to take the \"deep\" in \"deep house\" quite literally: Not content with dubby drums and thwumping bass, he packs his compositions with musical Easter eggs for careful listeners to uncover. Efdemin's second record, Chicago, offers a mostly similar experience, though it's somehow even more austere and composed than his debut.This measured approach seems initially offputting. Former Dial labelmate Pantha du Prince to whom Efdemin is often compared has opened his sound wide to grand, loving effect. Efdemin's fantastic contribution earlier this year to label showcase Dial: 2010 hinted at a similar gesture, but Chicago remains buttonedup throughout. The album's title seems to set up the Windy City as a totem, though Efdemin seems far more interested in the city's masculine, gray skyline than in the playful house music pioneered there in the early and mid1980s.It's not that Efdemin lacks playfulness. He intersperses bits of dialogue and field recordings into his music. The album opens with a voice also sampled on RJD2's \"Salud\" saying, \"I can't decide which piece to start with, so I won't start with any of the pieces, I've already started.\" Chicago is calm, always composed, and the key to enjoying it is ferreting out the buried bits of humor and beauty as Efdemin's winding tracks snake by.This is easier to manage during the album's haunting, psychedelic second half. Snapping strings and choral ephemera unbind the wonderful \"Nothing Is Everything\". \"There Will Be Singing\" takes aim at future gospel. \"Round Here\" runs for nine rugged minutes, but its finest moment is a 70second, beatless synth patch. These aren't hooks so much as rest stops along Chicago's 77 minutes of beatheavy, uptempo architecture.It is, quite frankly, a lot of techno music to take in, especially without memorable refrains or an obvious heater single. There are times Chicago would no doubt benefit from the soft bell tones of Efdemin's earlier work, though the basic premise remains the same: long, spooling tracks with plenty of appeal for patient ears. If you've got the time or the inclination to play hide and go seek with him, Efdemin packs Chicago with enough minutia and depth to bring his initially dry compositions to life. "}