{"label":" Young Turks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15421/homepage_large.f31b157f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"El Guincho","title":"Piratas de Sudamérica, Vol. 1","text":"  When El Guincho's Alegranza! got widespread release from XL at the end of 2008, the easiest indieworld album to compare it to was Panda Bear's Person Pitch. Both were joyous, airy records that sounded communal but were actually made by guys alone at their computers Person Pitch by Animal Collective's Noah Lennox, Alegranza! by a twentysomething Barcelonan named Pablo DíazReixa. The albums didn't just convey the discrete parts of each track, they conveyed an imaginary atmosphere that the tracks took place in, and in that sense were instances of bedroom musicians using modern technology to evoke primal comforts to conjure their tribe just by multitracking.Alegranza! was a synthesis of twochord Mexican folk, krautrock, calypso, and loads of other styles that don't really have anything obvious in common other than their propensity to find a syncopated groove, sit on it, wail, zone out, and be happy. It was a rhythm and atmosphere record, not a songwriting one, which is why DíazReixa's new project a series of EPs covering folk and early pop music from Latin America is a different kind of listen. The songs here mostly Cuban in origin, and all basically prerock are simple: all around two or three minutes, all with verses and choruses, all with pretty melodies, all trickfree. Their simplicity and the fact that they're not his puts more emphasis on the way he styles them: bright, cheap, and dripping with effects (a sound that was hard to place when Alegranza! came out, but feels familiar in the wake of oneman weather systems like Neon Indian, Washed Out and Toro Y Moi). And the mix here is mercifully less dense than it was on Alegranza!, which, after a while, sounded a little oppressive in its search for fun.The \"standards and lost classics\" claim about the music here is a little misleading. At least a couple of the artists that he credits these songs to were reasonably famous in their time: Trio Matamoros recorded for RCA Victor; Miguelito Valdés was on Ed Sullivan. In that sense, this isn't a new anthropology project, it's a look back at one that already happened one that brought traditional South American music to North American audiences, and one that ultimately resulted in ballroomready, exoticalite variations of Spanishlanguage dance music we end up hearing in old movies. El Guincho's approach makes the EP comparable to lots of other music we've heard over the past year: it's dreamy, selfcannibalizing retro culture halfremembered from somewhere else, though nowhere specific. But looking back at Alegranza!, it almost seemed like it'd come out a year early, so I'm that much more interested in where he's going now. "}