{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15424/homepage_large.7d43f27d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Oval","title":"Oh EP","text":" If you weren't following the more abstract/IDM end of electronic music between the middle of the 1990s and early 2000s, you can be forgiven for only having a hazy idea of what Markus Popp's Oval project was all about. You might have heard that his music involved digital glitches, or that he remixed Tortoise a couple of times, or that he had a side project with Jan St. Werner from Mouse on Mars. The last proper Oval release, Ovalcommers, came out in 2001, so we're talking almost 10 years since he put out anything new under the name. Those making experimental music heavily dependant on software are taking a real risk when they decide to sit a decade out. Things change fast, and people forget.How much you know and care about the records Oval released between 1993's Wohnton and Ovalcommers will probably have something to do with what you get out of his very different new EP, Oh. Though in truth, the project always seemed to be in a state of perpetual transition. In Oval's early years, Popp worked with Frank Metzger and designer Sebastian Oschatz to make hypnotic and highly textured tracks that often featured a rhythmic pulse that sounded like a skipping CD. Following the departure of Oschatz and Metzger after the gorgeous ambient masterpiece 94 Diskont, Oval's music grew increasingly dense and harsh, to the point where it moved freely between placid sounds and flatout noise. While there was an overriding Oval aesthetic centered around the sonic beauty of digital disruption (Popp's ideas were central to many conversations about electronic music during the time), the specific qualities of the records varied. And that's important to keep in mind when approaching Oh, because this record sounds almost nothing like the Oval we once knew.Where Oval once felt huge and immersive, Oh is sharp, prickly, and finely detailed. The central sonic motif in most of these minatures 15 tracks zoom by in 25 minutes is what sounds like samples of guitar strings plucked between the bridge and the tuning pegs. Which is to say that these sounds are highpitched and metallic with virtually no resonance, though they are digitally looped and stretched and warped when they're not bouncing between the speakers. The recording environment is very dry, which is interesting, because Popp is for the first time working with the sounds of \"real\" instruments, including a drum kit that pops up regularly. Though these are virtual instruments arranged by Popp electronically, they're used in a way that suggests a band with a postrock bent playing in a room together the cymbals splash and the kick drum kicks and the guitar bits buzz and repeat and you get the sense of a trio searching for the spaces that exist in between genres. It sounds a bit like improv, a bit like instrumental rock, and a bit like turnofthemillennium IDM, even as it never really sounds like Oval.With all of its pings and scrapes in the middle and upper part of the sonic spectrum, Oh can be a difficult listen on headphones. In a room, though, the EP opens up, and the logic of Popp's approach becomes more apparent. One thing this music shares with earlier Oval is the sense that it seems just on the verge of falling apart. There's a nice tension here as randomness mostly embodied by the frenzied guitar samples struggles with order.It's good to have Oval back, and there's something to be said for rethinking one's art from the ground up. But there's also a nagging sense here that it's all been done before. Popp's \"virtual band\" moves are reminiscent of Jan Jelinek's likeminded experiments in the early part of the 00s, and the focus on clicky guitar samples is close to the work of the Californiabased artist Christopher Willits from around the same time. Of course, all of these artists are obscure in the grand scheme of things, so the fact that this sound has been touched on before shouldn't matter to most. Popp has broken more than his share of ground, and now it's time to try something else. "}