{"label":" Foreign Leisure","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15435/homepage_large.e27d2f8a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Crooked Fingers","title":"Reservoir Songs II EP","text":" Eric Bachmann has been making records for about 20 years now, and in that time, the economics of recording and distributing music have changed in every way imaginable. Bachmann was never on a major label Archers of Loaf released their records on Alias Records, and Crooked Fingers have split time between Warm, Merge, and selfreleasing music but he still seems to have recognized that musicians need to be looking for alternative sources of funding for their projects. To pay for the recording and release of this EP, his second short collection of covers, Bachmann turned to Kickstarter.com, a site that lets artists, charities, community groups, inventors, and all manner of other people solicit donations for their projects. A donation gets you something in return, in this case anything from a highquality download at the $6 level to a performance by the band in your living room for $2,500. (NB: Pitchfork publisher Chris Kaskie is an investor in Kickstarter.)Bachmann and his Crooked Fingers cohorts clearly made it well beyond their funding goal, enabling them to do a digital/vinyl release; this is the second covers EP the band has released, and for its modest ambitions, it delivers a lot. The focus is a bit different this time. Where last time, he included a huge hit (Queen and David Bowie's \"Under Pressure\") and got a little outside the Crooked Fingers comfort zone by taking on Prince as well, on Vol. II Bachmann turns his sights on songs a little more naturally in his wheelhouse. Merle Haggard, Moby Grape, John Hartford (via Glen Campbell), Thin Lizzy, Billy Joe Shaver (via Waylon Jennings), and the Kinks all get the modern Americana treatment, and it more or less all works. It's also interesting to hear the band return to such a subdued approach after cramming Forfeit/Fortune with horns and European folk sounds.The goldenera country covers, Haggard's \"Shelly's Winter Love\" and Shaver's \"Black Rose\", are two of the most notable reinterpretations. Bachmann strips both of the the  sonic signifiers of country music, leaving out the steel guitars and twang in favor of warm textures. \"Shelly's Winter Love\" goes from pretty Bakersfield ballad to a shimmering, even haunting, atmospheric love song, and it's a great, unexpected choice for a cover. Bachmann's roughhewn voice does well to the 1970 Dave Daviespenned Kinks song \"Strangers\", even though some subtle bleepy synthesizer is the only major change to the song. The EP sags in the middle a bit Hartford's \"Gentle on My Mind\" is too understated, while they manage to suck almost all the energy out of Thin Lizzy's \"Wild One\". I'll take the original's harmonized lead guitar any day.So it's not perfect by any means, but it's a lovely extra for fans of the band, and the extra money it raised will go toward the band's next LP, possibly used to hire a few extra bouzouki players and gypsy brass bands (I hope). As much as I kid, though, I am curious whether this heralds a retreat from the fuller sound the band has pursued lately or simply a lowkey diversion. It's not quite the essential piece of the discography that the first Reservoir Songs EP was, but it does enough to personalize the source material that it's worth listening to on its own merits. "}