{"label":" Hessle","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15428/homepage_large.d2c1059a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Ramadanman","title":"Ramadanman EP","text":" Even for a genre as inscrutable as dubstep, there's some pretty outthere shit being released on Hessle Audio. Although the label has put out some singles that focus more on pure melody (Pangaea's \"Router\", especially), much of Hessle's catalog has embraced experimentalism rather than formalism, leaning on empty space and skullrattling beats alike. The result is electronic music that, even more than most dubstep, can walk the line between \"inviting\" and \"alienating\".It figures, then, that at first listen, the selftitled EP from Hessle cofounder David Kennedy, aka the quixoticallynamed Ramadanman, calls attention to daggered rhythmic structure and harsh headspace textures. He builds his sound on IDM's irregular pulse and dry, whipcracking textures. Forget dubstep's broken beat here, it's been disassembled, analyzed, and welded back together into a more sinister machine. The rhythms are glitchy and outofstep, recalling hardcore breakbeat or a less metallicsounding Autechre, and the basic pulse of these tracks is frequently disorienting, from the low wobble on \"No Swing\" to \"Tumble\"'s pounding cadences. It's hard to imagine these sounds being a huge hit on the dance floor conversely, it's easy to picture E'dout clubgoers on their knees, trying not to get seasick from the mayhem.Yet this EP never feels overly arch or severe, largely due to the playful tics weaved into the compositions. Instead of allowing melodic phrases to complete and establish themselves as themes, Kennedy keeps it tense for extra color. The winding synth that rolls out \"Tumble\" rolls right back to its starting point just as it's reaching the end, curling at the tips like old parchment. The integration of dubstep signifiers comes with a sly grin as well; the squelches of bass that punctuate \"A Couple More Years\" are clipped and comedic. Listen closely to the hillpeaked penultimate cut \"Bleeper\" and you'll hear someone trying to catch their breath. Makes total sense, too, when you consider the pitcheddown vocal pleas on \"I Beg You\" everybody benefits from a good workout, but reluctance and exhaustion are always bookending the experience.Consider the EP's best track, \"Don't Change For Me\", then, a most divine treat a delicious slab of chocolate cake after a day of wheatgrass shots and fivemile runs. The song starts out with a metronomic clicktracked beat, with building textures that make it seem like just another solidly obtuse cut. Don't be fooled, though, as a hardcore break rolls in and adds urgency to a gorgeously unspooling vocal sample. It's one of the most flatout beautiful dubsteprelated singles to drop so far this year, and the fact that it's pinned to the tail end of Kennedy's often challenging yet ultimately rewarding effort is a good look, as well as (hopefully) a glimpse at what's to come from Ramadanman. "}