{"label":" Geffen","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15432/homepage_large.4bec2665.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Common","title":"Go! Common Classics","text":" Hey, remember this: \"Truthfully, I wanna rhyme like Common Sense/ But I did five mil I ain't been rhymin' like Common since.\" Those words from JayZ's Black Album sounded like expert politicking; Jay was paying tribute to a lauded veteran while justifying his own flossier tendencies at the same time. It made Jay more human and Common more revered. That was in 2003. Now, it's tough to imagine Jay saying those same words.Though he's two years older than Com, JayZ has clung onto relevancy thanks to an uncanny understanding of the grand gesture and ruthless ambition. Com has stayed productive since 2003, too, but his importance in the realm of hiphop has been damaged by a middling acting career, one awful album (2008's Universal Mind Control), and the fact that the guy principally responsible for his 21stcentury comeback, Kanye West, also renders him somewhat obsolete. Considering their unbalanced tally of hits, it's odd that Jay is just now readying his first U.S. greatest hits package for release this summer while Go! Common Classics is Com's second highlights compilation. It focuses largely on tracks made from 2005's Be forward, while 2007's Thisisme Then: The Best of Common compiled highlights from most of his 90s work.Go! starts off with Common's biggest hit, the Dillaproduced masterpiece \"The Light\". Its earthy take on love puts Com's sensitiveboyfriend side to the fore and generally sets the tone for the first half of the comp. This might make sense commercially Go!'s release is ostensibly timed to coincide with his new romantic comedy, Just Wright, which I won't watch ever but it's an artistic blunder. However socially respectable, Common's femaletargeted tracks of the last decade are clunky at best. Whether hopelessly cheesy (\"Come Close\"), uncomfortably sensual (\"I Want You\"), or just plain corny (the lone new track, \"Next Time\", a Just Wright tiein), it's hard to believe any of his comeon tactics would work in even the drunkest of over30 clubs.Better is the second side, largely produced by Kanye and featuring Common's righteousmotivator guise. While Kanye used his solo career to experiment and push buttons during the last decade, the majority of his more traditional, soulflecked beats went to his onetime rival Chicago MC. (By the end of the decade, West seemed to lose interest in his original style entirely hence Com's Neptunesguided brick Universal Mind Control.) West's samplebased strategy worked perfectly with his friend's oldsoul demeanor. Successes like \"The Corner\", \"The People\", and \"Southside\" sound chunky, raw, and grown. On those tracks, Common uses his natural affability and attention to detail to connect with the urban everyday. Though he came up in the 90s, Com has an oldschool heart he still break dances and offers freestyles that sound genuinely spontaneous in concert. And Common nailed his thirtysomething style with 2005's Be, a warm wonder that's a lot more rewarding than this disc.Here's another trip down memory lane: \"Rap career is over, better off acting.\" That's Common ripping into Ice Cube on the classic 1996 dis track \"The Bitch in Yoo\". It's the oldest song on Go! and doubles as a dubious closer considering the contrasting positivity and votivecandle vibes happening elsewhere.There's no doubt that Common is an important influence on today's mainstream hiphop B.o.B.'s recent smash \"Nothin' on You\" often comes off like a slickedup version of \"The Light\", and, generally speaking, soft is the new hard but it's also increasingly apparent that he may go down as more of a transitional or prescient figure. (Across his 18year career, Common has had zero Top 40 solo hits.) In the grand scheme, his legacy may be best defined by his awardshowtantrumprone progeny, who took Com's penchant for wicked wordplay and warm understanding and added a helping of senseless, stadiumrising panache. Kanye as we know him would not exist without Common. And, as flimsy and unnecessary as it is, this lateperiod highlight reel isn't fathomable without Kanye. "}