{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15431/homepage_large.5d6c85d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Kode9","title":"DJ-Kicks","text":" Kode9 is distractingly smart, which wouldn't be a problem if not for the fact that it can be hard to figure out which way to take him more seriously. As a musician, he's helped negotiate some of the most interesting turns in dance music in recent years, both as a producer and as head of the epochal dubstep label Hyperdub. And then, as an academic, he recently published Sonic Warfare: Sound, Affect, and the Ecology of Fear, a headturning book that surveys aural culture at its most ideologically expansive and theoretically vital.But those expecting Kode9 in either of the above modes might be surprised by his habits as a DJ. In the mix, he's more worldly and more in thrall to thrills and way more likely to chase down moments of ecstatic confusion. His installment of the longrunning DJKicks series finds its way into more than a few such moments, but it wanders nicely as well. Indeed, more exhilarating than any particular selection or segue is the realization, in general, of just how much has been covered when the 63minute set spins to a close.DJKicks starts out bright and warm, and begins refracting early with the entrance of Aardvarck and Kode9's own \"Blood Orange\" and \"You Don't Wash (Dub)\". The first 10 minutes alone flit through heaving synths, breakbeats, patches of dainty syncopation, heavily modulated basslines, and what might be a thumbpiano all highlighting the friction between organic and synthetic, tough and tender, brooding and cool.From there it all pushes forward through manic rushes and spells of mellow reprieve. The tracklist includes stuff from the Hyperdub orbit (Cooly G, Ill Blu, Ikonika, Zomby, Terror Danjah) and markers of external sounds like South African house (Mujava's \"Pleaze Mugwanti\") and sassyweird R&B (Rozzi Daime's \"Dirty Illusions\"). But nothing in a context so steeped sounds quite the same as it would otherwise. Kode9 is too fidgety for that, and too eager to smash tracks together for what might come out of the collision. Sometimes it's mesmerizing (the moody, glimmering blur around Zomby's \"Godzilla\") and sometimes it's straightup insane (Addison Groove's \"Footcrab\"). Few of the collisions stand to shock followers primed to the ways that \"dubstep\" tends to digress in clubs. But neither have any failed, it's clear by the end, to line up as anything short of a thorough statement of purpose for a musician and thinker with much to say. "}