{"label":" Capitol / Plain","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15427/homepage_large.6bdcbbf9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Vic Chesnutt","title":"About to Choke [Reissue]","text":" What must the suits at Capitol have thought back in 1996, when they first listened to Vic Chesnutt's debut for the label? Prior to signing, Chesnutt had been an Athens, Ga., fixture, recording with Michael Stipe and writing offthecuff songs about locals in the audience. His four albums on Texas Hotel Records had gained him a cult audience that culminated in Sweet Relief II: Gravity of the Situation (The Songs of Vic Chesnutt), a benefit album featuring R.E.M., Sparklehorse, Smashing Pumpkins, and Mary Margaret O'Hara. That tribute introduced Chesnutt to a wider audience, and About to Choke, released just a few months afterward, promised to build on that buzz.Rather than another like Drunk or Is the Actor Happy?, which featured fullband arrangements and some of his most direct songwriting, About to Choke was \"a lonely kind of deal,\" he told The Onion's A.V. Club in 1998. It mostly featured Chesnutt accompanying himself on guitar, piano, and a Yamaha Portasound PSS480. It was dark, deathobsessed, and the only potential singles were a countryleaning song about smalltown gentrification that might be a paean or a parody and another played on the keyboard's factory settings. Chesnutt wasn't trying to be difficult or disagreeable; he was simply torn between making an album that might appeal to a major label and making one that remained true to his previous records i.e., that didn't sound like a sellout. Hence the title.Upon its release, About to Choke received faintpraise reviews, and Capitol inevitably passed on releasing his followup. Fourteen years later, Plain Recordings' barebones reissue depicts a very curious entry in Chesnutt's tragically truncated catalog. To a certain extent, it's his final solo album, as almost all of his subsequent efforts were marked by creative collaborations that threw his unique talents into sharp relief. Even with that particular distinction, About to Choke is not among his best albums. There are moments that reveal an artist who's both prickly and personable. \"Swelters\" and \"New Town\" contain some of his warmest vocals ever laid down to tape, and opener \"Myrtle\" offers a crucial, comical selfassessment: \"A funny pilgrim on a crazy crusade,\" Chesnutt sings, savoring the consonance and alliteration, \"a saucy Chaucer, a sorry chapter mislaid.\"After the sly Portasound epic \"Little Vacation\", during which he solos masterfully on mouth trumpet, About to Choke actually chokes. Alternating between spectrally spare arrangements and jarringly loud accompaniment, it sounds fragmented, with no thematic or musical throughline threading the songs together. \"Hot Seat\" sounds like an unfinished demo, a rough draft of a song but without the spontaneity, and \"Threads\" unravels as Chesnutt worries over the image of \"Krishna beads in a lockbox safe.\" He manages to salvage side two with the strummy sevenminute \"See You Around\", a fitting signoff and a promise that he'd survive whatever professional setback this album represented.While it may have received more attention than any previous album before and most since, About to Choke remains arguably his least popular, his least regarded, his least played. But it has aged well certainly better than Sweet Relief II primarily because Chesnutt never took advantage of the majorlabel resources. He more or less made the same album he would have made if he'd stayed on Texas Hotel. That is to say, he made a characteristically loopy album: dense with wry wordplay, spare with arrangements, and dark with selfreckoning. "}