{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15440/homepage_large.5cd75833.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"We Are All One, in the Sun: A Tribute to Robbie Basho","text":" American Primitive guitarist Robbie \"Basho\" Robinson, one of the original pillars of John Fahey's legendary Takoma label, has a small but uncommonly devoted following among fellow musicians. Even so, the scope and virtuosity of his intuitive style makes him seem an especially tricky subject for a tribute album. Curated by Buck Curran of the folk duo Arborea, We Are All One, in the Sun does an impressive job of capturing the breadth of Basho's work, and it does so by concentrating as much on his eccentric songwriting and general beatific spirit as it does on his guitar skills.In a wayward career that extended from his 1965 Takoma debut The Seal of the Blue Lotus to his untimely death in 1986, Robbie Basho specialized in the sort of crosscultural stylistic leaps that are easy to take for granted in the Internet age but which must have sounded totally alien in 1965. In his playing he regularly referenced flamenco, Indian ragas, Celtic folk, and a wide variety of Asian and Native American styles with an almost invisibly deft touch. It seems appropriate, then, that for this tribute Curran has gathered musicians from around the globe, including several vocal tracks and a pair of nonguitar instrumentals that help to better illustrate the reach of Basho's influence. The pieces are a mix of direct covers of Basho originals and more impressionistic tribute songs that do their best to evoke and/or approximate Basho's enigmatic style.Of course, the surest way to pay homage to a virtuoso guitarist is to enlist some virtuoso guitarists. No Basho tribute album could feel quite legit without an appearance from German guitarist Steffen BashoJunghans, whose enthusiasm for Basho's work prompted him to add Basho to his own name as a sort of creative talisman. We Are All One is bookended by a pair of 12string guitar pieces by BashoJunghans, the first recorded in 1992 and the second in 2008. These pieces are not only fascinating reinterpretations of Basho's work but also provide a window onto the gradual progression of Junghan's own unique style. Similarly, pieces by guitarists Glenn Jones and Cian Nugent showcase artists who are not content to be mere copyists, as they instead craft new variations using Basho's wayfaring creativity as a guide.Lovely though these pieces are, contributions from cellist Helena Espvall and Persian oud master Rahim Alhaj really serve to distinguish this album from any number of recent excellent acoustic guitar records. Throughout Basho's work, there seems a frequent undercurrent of loneliness or melancholy that has led many to describe his music as \"haunting\", and Espvall's lightly dissonant cello piece \"Travessa Do Cabral\" masterfully evokes this same impression. And while it is unclear whether the Iraqiborn Alhaj's piece \"Baghad Athania\" is directly inspired by Basho, it does reflect Basho's fondness for Middle Eastern forms and adds a welcome variation to the album's timbre.Basho's own idiosyncratic vocals have never been universally beloved, even amongst his devoted fanbase. His voice could rise to an eerie wail that can seem remarkably startling and unearthly, especially at those points when his guitar has lulled the listener into a meditative daze. So it is probably for the best that the three vocal pieces here, all sung by female vocalists, are all performed with a notable degree of restraint, with nobody trying to duplicate Basho's style too precisely.\"Moving Up A'Ways\", Basho's typically eccentric variation on an old Navajo prayer, proves a perfect fit for Espers' Meg Baird, who delivers a captivating, understated performance. Buck Curran's own duo Arborea does similar good work on \"Blue Crystal Fire\", buoyed by Shanti Curran's suitably crystalline vocals, and Fern Knight make a good match for Basho's strange epic \"Song for the Queen\", providing what I believe is the album's sole electric instrumentation. Each piece on the album echoes a slightly different aspect of Basho's work, and this subtle level of variation helps make We Are All One, in the Sun that rare tribute album that is a solid listen from start to finish, and also serves to whet the appetite for further immersion into Robbie Basho's incredibly rich back catalog. "}