{"label":" Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15445/homepage_large.322c1bdd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Constellations","title":"Southern Gothic","text":" From Lou Reed's New York to Brian Wilson's California, the local color and streetlevel details of place is a cornerstone of popular American music. On their debut album, the Constellations have entrusted themselves with the formidable task of redefining a city that's already been famously rendered by artists ranging from Little Feat to OutKast. Not only is the revolvingdoor collective an amalgam of players from Atlanta's rock, soul, and hiphop scenes, their album Southern Gothic (released independently in 2008 before receiving this majorlabel reissue) was envisioned as a travelogue to Atlanta after hours, presenting a nocturnal netherworld of sex, violence, and intoxication. Now, I should note that, aside from a couple of layovers at HartsfieldJackson, I've never been to Atlanta. Unfortunately, after listening to Southern Gothic, I still don't really feel like I have.Recorded back when the Constellations were mostly a studio collaboration between singer Elijah Jones, Gnarls Barkley producer Ben H. Allen, and multiinstrumentalist Devin Donnelly (the band has since expanded into a eightman group), Southern Gothic wastes no time in establishing its ambitious scope with the psychedelic scenesetter \"Setback\", which frames Jones' streetwise, Beckian babble with splendorous synth lines and a monster gogo groove. It's an impressive opener that effectively sets up the magicrealist intent of the project but it's a balance of grit and grandeur that Southern Gothic rarely recaptures.The Constellations' Southernrock/gospel/electro/soul meltingpot sound feels too temperate and polished to properly complement the unsavory narratives playing out in the songs, which often come off like the work of a mildly eccentric bar band that wants you to think it's wild and dangerous. (You know something's amiss when Asher Roth's fakeSlimShady routine on \"We're Here to Save the Day\" pops out more than the muted CeeLo monologue on \"Love Is a Murder\".) And Jones' attempts at charactersketch vignettes are undermined by pat barstool philosophy like, \"You've got to take it to the limit,\" and, \"If you really want to live, you gotta be ready to die,\" or tired metaphors comparing life's struggles to the changing weather (\"December\"). Even worse is how \"Felicia\" squanders its tough Hammondorgan strut on a cringeworthy chorus that actually pays its prostitute protagonist the Chad Kroegerian compliment of being \"so sexy when you're working on your knees, girl.\"But the Constellations are nothing if not shameless, willing as they are to directly invoke the granddaddy of observational underbelly storytelling, Tom Waits, by appropriating his 1976 crazedsalesman spiel \"Step Right Up\" as the basis for a rubbery nineminute disco workout. The fact that Jones brazenly adopts a lowend Waitsian warble actually benefits the song, allowing him to convey the divebar scenery of Atlanta's Clermont Lounge with a detached sense of humor, rather than trying to oversell the seediness. And as \"Step Right Up\" reaches its congafunk climax, you get a genuine sense of the latenight abandon the Constellations were trying to capture all along. Perhaps on future recordings, the Constellations' current fullband formation will yield more moments like these songs that feel less like brushstroke caricatures of a place and more like livedin experiences of one. "}