{"label":" American Myth","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15443/homepage_large.c412020e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Linfinity","title":"Martian's Bloom","text":" Dylan Von Wagner sings in all caps. His large, forceful, sometimes unwieldy voice recalls Stuart Staples of Tindersticks, with a bit of Antony Hegarty's operatics and a vibrato all his own. As the frontman for New York's Linfinity, Von Wagner is a commanding presence, expressive and elegantly bombastic as he introduces a raft of contradictions restrained drama and artsy soulfulness into Martian's Bloom, which is more or less Linfinity's debut. Von Wagner formed the group in 2007 as a solo project, a vehicle for his vocals; after releasing an EP of demos and taking a stab at a debut called Manual for Free Living in 2006, he corralled a group of musicians as his backing band, kept the Linfinity name, and rerecorded some of his old songs for this project, which improves on the songs even if the whole sounds scattered.The songs themselves are strong, albeit occasionally undisciplined, so they sound punchier and more dynamic in this fullband setting, full of intriguing concrete details and sly hints of humor. Von Wagner writes more than a few clunkers on \"MSG\", and \"Babel\" opens with perhaps the most mindbogglingly obvious line this year: \"There's been trouble on the Gaza Strip.\" Generally, though, he thrives in the different settings on Martian's Bloom, adapting gracefully to the twisty Afropop bounce of \"Holy Rain\" as well as to the country drawl of \"Seesaw Love\". He strains and oversings at times, but part of his aesthetic is pushing himself and his instrument to extremes. The only time he's not convincing is on \"Choo Choo Train to Venice\", a revvedup Crampsy number whose grating din sounds wholly out of place on the album more a stunt than a song. Plus, the words \"choochoo train\" sound especially asinine coming out of Von Wagner's mouth. With that voice out front and center, the other musicians in Linfinity could be expected to hang back and remain unobtrusive, complementing his performance and assuming nobody's going to pay attention to them anyway. With the erudition of the Bad Seeds and the rawness of the Dirty Three, they provide the nuance and dynamic that Von Wagner cannot and lend local flare to these globetrotting songs, which range from the swamps of the South to the deserts of the Middle East. Guitarist Josh Collins in particular proves an apt foil for Von Wagner, dogging the singer's vocal melodies and slicing against his notes menacingly. Together, their best moment may be \"Molly Mar of Rome\", which moves from slow and soft to loud and clangorous in a few short minutes. Von Wagner slowly deconstructs his lyrics until he's singing wordlessly, and the band builds to a climactic push that feels earned and unrestrained. The downside to Linfinity's ambitious range, however, is a tendency toward musical tourism; Martian's Bloom sounds a bit too willfully studious and diverse, and therefore scattershot. On the other hand, it does what a good debut should: it suggests that the band could go absolutely anywhere from here. "}