{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15437/homepage_large.a06df4fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tal Rosenberg","artist":"Omar Souleyman","title":"Jazeera Nights: Folk and Pop Sounds of Syria","text":" The Arabic word \"jazeera\" means \"island\" or \"peninsula\" in English, but it seems unlikely that the people at Sublime Frequencies were going for something as Malibu breezy as \"Island Nights\" for the title of this compilation. Even though many Americans and Europeans are aware of the distortions and exaggerations some Western media outlets have made about Arabic news network Al Jazeera, the bugaboo surrounding the word feels as if it will limit this album's audience. That's unfortunate, because Jazeera Nights: Folk and Pop Sounds of Syria is probably the most dynamic collection of Omar Souleyman's work that Sublime Frequencies has yet released.Though the tracks on Jazeera Nights were culled from live performances recorded between 1995 and 2009, they sound like they were produced in a studio, with the crackling boom of electronically generated dance beats pushing the music further and harder than even the most adventurous songs from Highway to Hassake and Dabke 2020, Sublime Frequencies' last two Souleyman compilations. The music is a blend of different folk styles Iraqi Choubi, Kurdish, Turkish mostly played in a tempo best suited for dabke, an Arabic folk dance that's a more jubilant form of line dancing. But Souleyman's music has as much to do with most people's assumptions of \"folk\" as Miles Davis' 1970s work has to do with most people's assumptions of \"jazz.\" Musically, they're rooted in their origin's form; but sonically, they depart so fully from traditional instrumentation that they barely resemble previous incarnations of their respective genres.Unlike Highway to Hassake and Dabke 2020, which had some more languid moments, only \"Eih Min Elemkom\", the last track on Jazeera Nights, has a slow tempo. Most of these songs are paced at a speed that would turn cheetahs into roadkill an inexorable progression of serpentine, whiny keyboard lines, twangy ouds, and chaotic hand drums. (Imagine M.I.A.'s \"Bird Flu\" ten times faster, wrapped in blaring, bendy tones with an impassioned, scratchy male voice singing over it  and you're still only halfway there.) The pacing of \"Hot Il Khanjar Bi Gleibi\" puts it in the same realm as happy hardcore or bassline, while opening track \"Hafer Gabrak Bidi\"'s aggressive kick drum punctuates a menacing keyboard line nearly obscured by a clatter of percussion. The two midtempo tracks here are also the two best: \"Labji Wa Bajji Il Hajar\" has a summery synth bounce and \"Mandal/Metel Il Sukkar Ala Il Shai\" is a 10minute corkscrew of tension and space.Mark Gergis, who assembled Jazeera Nights and wrote its liner notes, frequently releases music of this stripe e.g. folk music filtered through electronic instrumentation, yet halting just before MIDI and computerbased modes of production. Because of his reluctance to embrace contemporary technology Souleyman releases most of his music on cassette, most of which are sold in kiosks in his native Syria there's a very palpable friction in the music, which is trying to explore presentday styles without eliminating its folk backbone or the eroding shell of recently anachronistic technology. If you're already a Souleyman fan, then you're going to get this, since it ably complements Highway to Hassake and Dabke 2020. But if those two compilations struck you as too distant or monotonous, then Jazeera Nights' distinct collision of panchronological party music should be the mode by which you come to understand Souleyman's rich and deep body of work. "}