{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15448/homepage_large.53ac5494.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Nina Nastasia","title":"Outlaster","text":" Though Nina Nastasia is known for writing sparse, haunted folk songs, none of her albums have ever sounded plain or unadorned. She's never limited herself to simply acoustic guitar and voice, frequently working with strings in some form on nearly all of her albums since 2004's Dogs. Outlaster, her latest record, is the first to have a full (if small) orchestra appearing on every track. It's a switch to hear her among so many collaborators when some of her best recent work like 2007's You Follow Me, a woefully overlooked and impregnable batch of songs was put together with just one, drummer Jim White. The interplay between them was gripping enough to make any listener forget it was the work of only two people. So why the need for so many more?Though Nastasia is still at the center of these songs, Outlaster is the work of musicians listening closely and reacting to one another, and the spirit of collaboration is what gives these songs life. Bear in mind that Nastasia worked with both Jim White and various string players on 2006's On Leaving, a record with songs so spare they barely registered; the change on the following two albums is audible in more than a few ways. The strings and woodwinds on Outlaster are applied with the same rigor and taste that she's exhibited over her career, and they make each of these songs more vivid without turning them soggy with sentimentality. Even as they flirt with Eastern tones on \"You're a Holy Man\" or a severe Easternbloc tango on \"This Familiar Way\", they bring out new elements and tones in Nastasia's songs that feel like they'd been lurking underneath all along.As striking as the arrangements are, there's still a place for the nuance that's typified Nastasia's work. \"You're a Holy Man\" is likely the most crowded room Nastasia's ever recorded in, with full strings, drums, and electric guitar, but all are as nimble as Nastasia herself, as they carefully accent the melodically intricate track. Likewise, a quick staccato pluck of violin strings adds palpable suspense to the opening verse of \"What's Out There\" before building to the more typically tense triplets behind Nastasia's deep wail later on. And when the orchestra holds back for the first verse of \"Wakes\", it lends all the more weight to the gorgeous moment when it comes in just before the second.These collaborators seem to have spurred Nastasia to try different voices and tones: There's a newfound boldness (almost hoarseness) in her voice to compete with in \"This Familiar Way\", and a breathlessness to keep up with tracks like \"What's Out There\" and \"Wakes\" that puts a rare color in her cheeks. But some things haven't changed. Even as she tackles big topics, Nastasia still uses small, precise images to get the point across, whether it's the mention of a mask (gas mask?) in the foreboding tale of seclusion and paranoia in \"What's Out There\", the description of an old photo of a couple mooning the camera in \"Cry, Cry Baby\" that nails the length and depth of the relationship described, or the detail of someone wrapped in a sheet in the beginning of \"Wakes\", which is funereal and resigned in its lyrics but stubborn and defiant in its melody. The orchestra on Outlaster successfully cracks a window on Nastasia's onewomanandguitar setup and shines a different, striking light onto her music. "}