{"label":" Universal Republic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15457/homepage_large.e0a1316a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Infant Sorrow","title":"Get Him to the Greek OST","text":" In Get Him to the Greek, Russell Brand plays a rock star that doesn't exist which isn't the same thing as saying he plays a fictional rock star. Rather, his Aldous Snow is a hodgepodge of dichotomous frontman archetypes: he's a foulmouthed bastard like Liam Gallagher and a tabloidbaiting trainwreck like Pete Doherty, but he also possesses the dogooder messianic complex of Bono and teenybopper populism of Robbie Williams. This inconsistency in character hardly matters to the success of the movie, which is a roadtrip buddy flick first and a musicbiz satire a distant second. But that hasn't stopped Brand from trying to sell his fake rock star in the real world. The film's soundtrack is presented as an official release by Snow's band, Infant Sorrow, and, to ensure Brand's Britpop bonafides, it taps the songwriting expertise of Jarvis Cocker and the Libertines' Carl Barât, among others.Brand certainly has the voice that the ruse requires, adopting a convincing Liamesque whine for the rockers and exuding an appropriately insufferable air of selfimportance on the big ballads. However, unlike the gold standards of mock rock the soundtracks to This Is Spinal Tap and The Rutles: All You Need Is Cash the songs heard on Get Him to the Greek don't cohere into a paralleluniverse career retrospective of an artist that you could imagine actually existing. Instead, like the numbers in a musical, their key function is to advance the film's plot and provide its emotional cues. Which means that they don't serve much purpose outside of that context. \"African Child (Trapped in Me)\" Snow's ridiculously patronizing attempt at a helpthepoor power ballad is essentially Get Him to the Greek's catalyst, the careerkilling nadir that sets the film's comeback narrative in motion. But it loses a considerable degree of its outrageousness when heard without its abominable video.There's a good reason why realworld rock bands have covered songs by Spinal Tap and The Rutles: the tunes may have been written as jokes, but their humor was communicated through a keen application of readily identifiable genre conventions. (Think of how the Tap's \"Gimme Some Money\" perfectly aped not just the freakbeat blues of The Yardbirds and early Rolling Stones, but also the lazy misogyny often expressed within.) Get Him to the Greek, however, is built upon a more generic, vaguely defined base popular British rock of the last 15 years so there's less fun to be had in picking out its targets. The songs must therefore yield their onenote snickers through the overuse of British vernacular (\"Bangers, Beans and Mash\"), numbskull declarations of hedonism (see: the Baratpenned \"let's get fucked!\" refrain of \"Gang of Lust\") and elaborate setups to crass punchlines (the Cocker/Chilly Gonzales cowrite, \"F.O.H.\", an ascendant, U2scaled piano ballad whose source of uplift is finally revealed in the chorus: \"fucking on heroin\").Ironically, it's the two bonus tracks by Jackie Q Snow's starlet exgirlfriend, played and sung by Rose Byrne that are the most successfully subversive, coaxing out the sexual suggestiveness of Spice Girlsstyle dancepop to the point where the innuendo turns literal. And Brand does score a direct hit with the fauxOasis trifle \"Furry Walls\", a rare instance where the song's nonsensical status outside the film actually proves to be its saving grace. To those who haven't seen Get Him to the Greek, the opening line of \"When the world slips you a Jeffrey/ Stroke the furry wall\" may initially seem baffling; however, it's really no more asinine than anything the Gallaghers were spouting off about in their cocainesupernova heyday. "}