{"label":" Polydor","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15461/homepage_large.e4787b8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Scissor Sisters","title":"Night Work","text":" If the cover of Night Work did not clue you in, let's just state the obvious right now: This is a very, very gay album. Whereas the first two Scissor Sisters records found a way to translate specifically gay subject matter into bigtent camp that opened up their appeal to anyone with a taste for colorful dance music and 1970s radio pop, their third album isn't quite as inclusive. They are no less tuneful, but their aesthetic and lyrical themes are more firmly rooted in gay culture, to the point that many straight listeners may find themselves feeling like outsiders looking in. Instead of presenting a queer pop sensibility for the masses, they've gone deeper into their subcultural niche.Though it starts off with a set of songs that wouldn't sound out of place on the two previous albums, Night Work quickly slips into hypersexualized gay club mode and sticks with that vibe until the end. The band's reference points have shifted, abandoning 70s pastiche in favor of calling back to the sort of deeply uncool 80s pop that was largely ignored in the past decade of Reaganera revivalism. \"Night Work\" comes off like an arena rock version of the Pointer Sisters; \"Something Like This\" and \"Skin This Cat\" find the band diving into the deep end of sleazy, neonhued synth pop. \"Harder You Get\" is an immensely appealing hybrid of Judas Priest leatherdaddy metal and sleek Eurodisco; \"Running Out\" embraces the decadent corniness of David Bowie at his mid80s nadir and somehow spins that sound into pure gold. Best of all, the epic \"Invisible Light\" does for gay clubs what \"Thriller\" did for horror movies, right on down to Sir Ian McKellan turning up for a Vincent Priceesque monologue like some kind of Italodisco wizard. The album is low on potential hits but high on inspiration, with the group finding clever angles on familiar sounds rather than simply aping their favorite guilty pleasures.The band's change in tone and focus is essentially a matter of shifting their emphasis from camp to overt sexuality. To be sure, there is no shortage of camp on Night Work, but the homoeroticism that has always been present in their music has been foregrounded, and many of the songs deal with situations specific to modern gay life. In some cases, the lyrics couldn't be more obvious, as with the blatant manonman S&M action in \"Harder You Get\", but in others, the lyrics are subtle and coded. \"Skin Tight\" is a moving ballad dealing with condom use and intimacy; \"Sex and Violence\" explores the selfdestructive impulse to indulge in anonymous, sometimes Internetfacilitated sex. Neither song is entirely obscure in its sentiment, but the \"dog whistle\" lines deepen the drama considerably. One example is when Jake Shears sings in the latter track, \"Does anybody know right now exactly where you are?\" a reference to the commonly advocated practice of letting someone know the address of your hookup in case you never turn up alive again.The back half of Night Work includes some of the darkest music the Scissor Sisters have recorded. The songs are not bleak or joyless, but there's a clear thread of loneliness and desperation for human connection running through the lyrics that puts a damper on the group's usually celebratory spirit. Shears and his bandmates are wise to broaden their emotional range, and it is apparent that this work is coming from a deeply personal place. The album is basically about the need for night life as a way of finding community, identity, and escapism, and obviously we wouldn't require any of that were it not for the feelings of loneliness, confusion, and boredom that color even the perkiest songs on the record.The songwriting on Night Work may not be as strong overall as on their debut, but they've improved greatly in terms of tonal consistency, avoiding the scattered eclecticism of their second album. Without drastically changing what they do, Shears and company have successfully pushed their style to a new extreme. This could turn out to be either a transitional work on the path to even more nicheoriented material, or an artistic tangent that the band had to get out of their system before returning to more chartfriendly music. But in any case, Night Work is a bold, uncompromising album that more than earns its inevitable cult adulation. "}