{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15462/homepage_large.67cc3d3f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"diskJokke","title":"En Fin Tid","text":" Has Norway recently adopted strict truthinadvertising laws? The title of Casiokids' recent Topp Stemning På Lokal Bar loosely translated to \"great vibe at a local bar,\" and now diskJokke offers En Fin Tid, or \"a happy time.\" That's a modest and direct summary of the experience the Oslobased producer christened Joachim Dyrdahl creates on his second LP, following his strong 2007 debut, Staying In. At this rate, Todd Terje will be probably drop an album called Funky Cowbell Italo Edits any day now.Dyrdahl has his own special place in the Norwegian progdisco pantheon: Prins Thomas is the earthiest, Lindstrøm is the most spacey, and diskJokke, the breeziest. His tracks twinkle with colorful hand percussion and windchime synths, and the buoyant, effortless feel is achieved with arithmetical precision. Grounding the dawnbreaking aesthetics of Brian Eno and Tangerine Dream in sturdy dance and tropical styles, En Fin Tid is full of miniodysseys through the realms of happy and happier.What amounts to a fun summer record for us is more personal for Dyrdahl: It's about becoming a father and a fulltime musician after abandoning a career in mathematics. Whatever the inspiration, this record demonstrates Dyrdahl's ear for builds, as he seamlessly integrates sound layers and big, battedaround themes. The best tracks emphasize these skills. But while diskJokke's strongest suit is the liquidneon bubble bath, he can do some cool stuff in a more aggressive vein too. Upwelling tropical suds offset the steely pulses of the title track, which pushes it over the line between gear workout and imaginative composition.The straightcut cadences Dyrdahl favors are perfect contrasts for the loopy twists and Thereminsqueals of his characteristic melodies, but they're less satisfying when left to fend for themselves. The more linear tracks here pale in comparison to the baroque fantasies. Appropriately for a record about fresh starts, it is sometimes better at cranking up than following through. Epic closer \"Nattestid\" reprises the Reichian piano patterns of Staying In standout \"Folk I Farta\", but its endless microhouse permutations and drainswirling synths feel like they're in search of a big drop that never arrives. It's a sweet track that could have been a real heater. Still, these few tepid patches are far from dealbreakers. While En Fin Tid might squander a few opportunities, it's never anything less than pleasurable, smart, and highly evocative of diskJokke's unique, rosetinted perspective. "}