{"label":" Knitting Factory","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15456/homepage_large.68d5987c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Rachid Taha","title":"Bonjour","text":" Back before Rachid Taha was a solo performer, and before he started his first band, Carte de Séjour, he was already figuring out ways to reconcile the popular music of the Western and Arab worlds while spinning records in a club he founded. He'd get a beat from Led Zeppelin or Kraftwerk going, then mash it up with Oum Kalthoum or a recording by some other Arabic or North African performer. And he was doing this in the 1970s, at a time when the mashup was a distantfuture pop cultural phenomenon and Grandmaster Flash was only beginning to map out his adventures on the wheels of steel. In a sense, Taha has never stopped making those mashups in a career that now spans almost 20 studio albums between Carte de Séjour and his solo career. He's got rock, reggae, techno, raï, and Arab pop wrapped so tightly together on his records that they're nearly inseparable. All the mixing makes sense, given his background as an Algerian by birth who has lived in France since the age of 10.If there's one thing all his music has in common, it's that it moves, whether the beat is pushed along by North African percussion, a drum machine, a drum kit, or some combination of the three. The material on Bonjour is still kinetic, but the grooves are different, more locked in, and persistently downtempo. That might partly be a side effect of Taha's break with longtime producer Steve Hillage in favor of Gaëtan Roussel, the leader of popular French folkrock band Louise Attaque, with additional production from Mark Plati. The bounce that Hillage gave Taha's albums has been replaced by tense, tightly coiled beats, and the various styles that Taha draws upon to inform his own are even more thoroughly smeared together. \"Mokhtar\" is basically synth pop with Taha singing in Arabic over the top as little Berber flourishes and swathes of distorted guitar gnaw at the edges. \"Sélu\" is the biggest exception to the generally slower tempos, but it sticks with the album's overall technique of building off of hypnotic, repetitive rhythms. \"Ha Baby\" has a fluid rhythmic underpinning, but it's more traditionally Arabic, the beat covered with flecks of oud and mandolute.It's not quite Led Zeppelin backing Oum Kalthoum Taha has arrived at something much more subtle and, ultimately, meaningful. He can duet with Roussel, and the mix of his gruff, staccato way of speaking French with Roussel's soft, fluid singing isn't jarring. It just sounds like a cosmopolitan conversation. I've wondered a bit why a guy so far into his career would name his album \"hello.\" In the absence of an explanation, I've come to think that it's not meant as an introductory hello so much as a greeting to old friends whom Taha is seeing for the first time after making some changes in his life. And while Bonjour isn't as immediately infectious as many of Taha's albums, it's still filled with memorable fusions and subtle details. "}