{"label":" Thizz City","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15473/homepage_large.bf440590.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Roach Gigz","title":"Roachy Balboa","text":" It's easy to forget, as Eminem wrestles with turgid seriousness and Lil Wayne with drugfueled hubris, that the reason both rappers connected with so many people in the first place was because they were so much fun. Bay area rapper Roach Gigz is clearly influenced as he'll admit by both artists, as well as by his spiritual inspiration, Mac Dre. But unlike so many rappers whose influences become oppressively imitative, Roach Gigz effectively captures the masters' irreverent best by simply being himself. His new mixtape, Roachy Balboa, is one of the most energetically fun rap records released this year.His rapping has a muscular dexterity that sounds instinctively balanced between acrobatic rap style this is unquestionably a rap fan's rap record and keeping things interesting. Every track seems to follow this labyrinthine ADD logic, sinewy flow interlocking offthecuff thoughts with irreverent joie de vivre. His grimy humor helps to ground the uncapped mania of spirit. The beats largely reflect this feel, madcap rapidfire highpitched vocal samples over unhinged and busy treblefriendly production. The tracks that stand out the most work against the grain; \"Goomba Pimpin\", for example, relies on slow, lowslung warpedbass sonics. It also kicks off with a hint at the creativity behind the writing process. Beginning with a classic writer's block story track conceit (\"So I was pickin' the vegetables out my cup of noodles\"), the first verse travels a meandering path before resolving itself in an unrelated direction: \"Took a piss on the block/ Now I got a court date, man I hate the cops/ True story.\"Ultimately what makes this record so good, though, is that Roach Gigz is simply a charismatic, likable guy, and that this personality really comes through in his music. He hints at some raw currents of paranoia and griminess, some nihilistic humor, the kind of thing that used to catch rappers headlines, but the rapper's emphasis on realism means this hiphop shockhumor is relegated to a single color in his overall approach. He also drops too many lines that belie some sense of morality, that make it clear he's got a purpose and a story to tell, to be too much of a hiphop loose cannon. Not to undersell Roach Gigz' crazyliving bona fides; the guy is only 22, and this record sounds like it, the echoes of teenage delinquency still rattling around in his brain.It's a record that knows what it's like to be a roughandtumble 22, from antineediness anthems like \"Let Me Breathe\" and the flirtatiously lustful \"Gold\". Gigz first record, Buckets and Booty Calls, was a mixed bag, occasionally showing flashes of inspiration and raw skill but feeling largely listless, imbalanced. And this is why Roach Gigz' personality is so engaging on Roachy Balboa; there's the youthful realization of possibility, a recognition of creative electricity sparked when a kid discovers his creative outlet, the potential of his own talents. "}