{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15475/homepage_large.6cca45f8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Lil B","title":"Base World, Pt. 1","text":" As Pitchfork's Tom Breihan explained in his piece about rap's recession, it's harder than ever to get noticed as an upandcoming regional MC, and the smart ones aggressively take to the Internet to promote themselves. Maintaining an active Twitter feed, jumping on as many guest verses as humanly possible, and flooding the market with mixtapes is the best bet for exposure. Twentyyearold Lil B (real name Brandon McCartney), a rapper from Berkeley, California, has taken this approach to its logical extreme. Mostly forgoing mixtapes and mp3 downloads, Lil B constantly shoots video of his tracks and freestyles, uploading them to a YouTube site that, as of today, has 172 original clips to view.It's an insane output, almost impossible to keep up with, and it mirrors Lil B's scattered, freewheeling lyrical style. Known previously for his work with the Berkeley partyrap crew the Pack, who scored a 2006 hit with their sneaker ode \"Vans\", Lil B's solo approach is unfiltered and introspective. He calls his raps \"based freestyles,\" slang for an improvised, streamofconsciousness flow. \"In based freestyles, we don't think,\" he said recently in an interview with Complex magazine. \"You just let your unconscious mind speak. You let the truth speak. I'm not prethinking what I'm gonna speak.\" So Lil B's rhymes are often sloppy and halfformed, sometimes crass and silly, and sometimes remarkably cogent. It's the kind of style that makes you wonder if he's some kind of mad genius or just completely fucking around.This puts Lil B in the category of quoteunquote weird rappers guys like Kool Keith, Madlib, and even Lil Wayne, who often appeal to leftfield and indie listeners. But like Wayne and more recently Gucci Mane, Lil B's eccentric persona, atypical flow, and aggressive selfpromotion make it possible for him to find a mainstream audience. (There's talk of an impending record deal with Soulja Boy's SODMG imprint.) As of now, though, Lil B remains a divisive and even controversial figure among rap fans. He's got a track called \"Look like Jesus\" and another called \"I'm a Fag I'm a Lesbian\" even though he's apparently not gay. He's been called \"the worst rapper alive\" and was punched by a random dude for no apparent reason in a prominent YouTube clip.But there are those who think Lil B is onto some nextlevel shit, and there's certainly an argument to be made there. His commitment to a kind of pure expression feels very punk in its way. It's not about skill or ability with him he basically ignores the established rap custom of beat riding and sometimes just talks over instrumentals but more about communicating whatever he feels even if it makes him look like a klutz in the process. From a listener perspective, Lil B is a fascinating mess of contradictions. He preaches positivity and oneness with the earth but has a song called \"Robber's Anthem\" and totes a pistol in the clip for \"Rich Bitch\". He can be thoughtful and sensitive one minute and then offensively misogynistic the next.Because of the scattered nature of his output and dedication to the YouTube format, there isn't really one album that encapsulates all the different sides of Lil B. He put out the 6 Kiss and I'm Thraxx records last year and there are several unsanctioned mixtapes floating around that compile a dozen or so tracks each. Base World, Pt. 1 is one of these, and it does a pretty good job of showcasing his more tuneful and emotional side. Lil B often spits on ambient electro beats and has previously sampled artists like Antony and the Johnsons and Boards of Canada. The production here falls in line with that approach tracks usually feature a chiptune electropop sample and a loping, tinny drum kick. They are lofi but melodic, and Lil B mostly raps in semicoherent form.This tape can be treated as sort of preview to his upcoming Black Ken fulllength, and it's somewhat limited in scope. Base World, Pt. 1 showcases a variety of subject matter songs about girls and sex, fuckedup relationships, personal anxiety, and street life but leans a bit heavily on the tame side of Lil B's personality. \"B.O.R. (Birth of Rap)\" looks back at a messy adolescence and an obsession with hiphop, \"Bonnie and Clyde\" is sort of your standard \"I need a ride or die chick\" cut, and \"I Can't Sleep\" and \"So Selfish\" deal more with selfdoubt and introspection. A few more of his aggressive tracks could have been included to provide better contrast, but there's some powerful stuff here regardless.\"She Don't Love Me is a severe song about heartbreak that pulls no punches. \"Bust a nut in you but I want my seed to die, 'cause you not my wife, just a sweet disguise\", Lil B raps. That this and the disturbingly raunchy \"Violate the Bitch\" come from the same guy who recently put out the touching \"Real Life\" is what makes Lil B such a captivating character to follow. And it's more than just \"Did he really say that?\" moments and wondering if the guy can actually rhyme (he can). In a genre that prizes realness above just all else, Lil B has managed to stay uncommonly raw. "}