{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15470/homepage_large.9447b69b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"How to Dress Well","title":"Can't See My Own Face - The Eternal Love 2","text":" Tom Krell is a ColognebywayofBrooklyn transplant who records brief patches of lofi bedroom pop with an early1990s R&B tint. Working as How to Dress Well, he's able to synthesize an unusual combination of influences to make striking music that can alternately frighten and comfort. Over the last year, Krell uploaded a number of short EPs to his blog and gave them away for free. Can't See My Own Face  The Eternal Love 2 is Krell's most cohesive moment as How to Dress Well yet, a fivetrack release that deconstructs R&B motifs and marries them with a corroded homerecorded aesthetic. From the xx to popcontortionists like James Blake, there seems to be a new appreciation of premillennial, silkspun R&B in the air among indie types, to the point where earnestly namedropping Keith Sweat, as Krell did in an interview with Pitchfork, seems like a plausible and sincere gesture. This shift is a little less surprising considering that the artists in question are now in their early to midtwenties. They grew up with this music, and now they're trying to do something new with it.For his part, Krell takes a more experimental approach, making a lot of the material on Can't See My Own Face difficult to access on a first encounter. By replacing some of R&B's lust with solitary longing, he creates a space that's hard to pin down. There's a certain amount of sensuality when he coos, \"I will always love you, baby,\" but the songs seem to come from somewhere distant. Though he makes these songs sound personal and inwardly directed (as he does on the lush, haunting opener \"Suicide Dream 2\"), Krell is also able to tap into the smooth surface structure of the music he's reconfiguring. The results can be pleasurable and relatable and also alienated and creepy.Part of the reason Krell is able to pull off this strange hybrid is his great ear for melody (especially when paired with percussive elements, like on the peculiarly catchy \"Mr. By & By\" here). But the melodies are frequently obscured by the damaged production. At points, when his piercing wail shoots into the red and things begin to distort quickly and sharply, it can be difficult to resist the instinctual urge to slip your headphones off. But according to Krell, the rougher portions of the recordings are deliberate. And because there's no obvious need for Krell's haunting delivery to be obstructed he really does have a wonderful voice for some listeners, the application of this much distortion might feel like an arty nuisance.But the more you listen, that tension is part of what makes the music special. Listening through the noise for the joyous, romantic moments makes Can't See My Own Face that much more intimate. Krell's voice alone confronts the harsher textures in a strangely victorious kind of way. And the more you find yourself anticipating something gorgeous just below the surface or just around the bend, the more you start to hear. "}