{"label":" Standard Form","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15484/homepage_large.432c285c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Kyle Bobby Dunn","title":"Rural Route No. 2","text":" When we last checked in with Kyle Bobby Dunn, the young NYCbased composer had just issued Fervency, whose hotblooded title was at odds with its chill majesty. Reminiscent of William Basinski and Stars of the Lid, his patient drones for electric guitar and chamber instruments were full of movement and detail, yet throughout all the tiny changes, an uncanny stillness prevailed. Next, he issued the career retrospective A Young Person's Guide to Kyle Bobby Dunn, which paired Fervency with older material in the same blankly teeming vein. With the title, Dunn lampooned his own premature bid for archival relevance, although it wouldn't be hard to mistake Guide for the unearthed work of some obscure old postminimalist. His new work, the Rural Route No. 2 EP, suggests that he's gotten tired of impeccable stasis, and it's his most approachable music to date.This is part of a series of limited edition 3\" CDs from the Standard Form imprint. The EP is a great format for Dunn, whose music can be dauntingly austere. With two pieces in 20 minutes, Rural Route No. 2 is focused and enveloping, with the perfect amount of content to tell a coherent story. Dunn continues to process electric guitars but his digital intervention is more intense and dynamic than before. As a consequence, he finds new emotional shades in his music.Dunn created Rural Route No. 2 after visiting childhood haunts in Calgary, Alberta, though true to his counterintuitive point of view, he mostly avoids bucolic nostalgia. \"Dissonant Distances\" catches us offguard with its gloomy timbres and faintly industrial feel. It passes by like a long gray train: a slow roar entwined with hissing steam and shrieking brakes. The main bulk of the sound finally trails off as if into a tunnel, and leaves us flatfooted on empty, whistling track, essentially spending half of the EP getting us to our destination.On the second half, \"Senium III\", Dunn works in a more open, elegiac space, but he's hardly skipping through the clovers. The overcast melody banks slowly through high shrills and deep brassy moans. It's quietly dejected yet shot through with flickers of optimism. It's not a sentimental reconstruction of childhood wonder, but a shrine to irrevocable loss. Catharsis is continually teased and held at bay. Dunn's nuanced and uncompromising perspective is getting sharper, and increasingly worthy of the close scrutiny he demands. "}