{"label":" Soundway","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15479/homepage_large.775af805.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various","title":"Palenque Palenque: Champeta Criolla & Afro Roots in Colombia 1975-91","text":" The word \"palenque\" can refer to a number of things, including several geographical locations, but in the context of this compilation, it has two important meanings. Broadly, in Spanishspeaking Latin America, the term is used to refer to a city or village founded by people of African descent (sometimes joined by Native Americans), usually escaped slaves. In Colombia specifically, the town of San Basilio de Palenque is one of the last places where a SpanishBantu creole language called Palenquero is still commonly spoken. It's a unique and endangered language that most Spanish speakers can't understand, and it's one of the starkest reminders of Colombia's centuriesold cultural link to Africa via slavery around 20% of Colombia's population has African ancestry.African currents run through much of the popular music of Latin America, but in 1970s Colombia an interesting thing happened: The thencurrent popular musics of Colombia and West Africa merged to create an updated AfroLatin sound that ultimately evolved into champeta in the 1980s. This unique, omnivorous genre of Colombian music eventually broke out of its regional base around Cartagena and San Basilio to become a part of Colombian culture at large, much the same way that jazz spilled out of New Orleans and into the fabric of American culture. This compilation from Britain's Soundway records, cocompiled by label founder Miles Cleret and Colombia native (and owner of Palenque Records) Lucas Silva, offers a timelapse of the evolution of this intercontinental fusion.Much as the soundsystem gave birth to ska and ultimately reggae in Jamaica, the roots of this music can be found in the picos, the local term for the Cartagena and Barranquilla soundsystems. The DJs that spun records for the picos were a resourceful bunch they played their share of local cumbias and other Colombian music, but they cut it with Caribbean music and hardtoprocure records from Africa, whipping up a gumbo of cumbia, compas, highlife, rumba, salsa, soukous, and funk that influenced what the musicians coming up listening to all of this would play on their own records. \"Burumburumbum\", by Casimbas Negras is practically geographyneutral. It has guitars that sound like they came off a record from Ghana, a snaking sax line that could have been recorded in Martinique, chanted vocals, and a jumpy rhythm that's part cumbia, part Afrobeat lockgroove.All up and down this set, the guitar playing is a joy a clear tone on the electric guitar was the preferred sound, and these guys aren't doing a lot of strumming or chickenscratching. The lines they play are fluid and melodic, dueting or sometimes dueling with the singers, settling into sunny highlife patterns or cutting loose with an oddly psychedelic flourish. That's the other thing that's in no short supply here: experimentation. The vocal formula for this music was fairly consistent, with a lead engaging in a spirited dialogue with a chanting, repetitive chorus. But these bands and solo artists find so many combinations of rhythms and arrangements to wrap around that basic formula that it doesn't feel repetitive over the course of the full 21 tracks (23 on the 3xLP version).The experimentation is more overt on some tracks, with echo effects and odd guitar noises spicing up the hand percussion. Wganda Kenya has three songs here, and his have a strange flavor. \"El Lobo\" features rattles and buzzing synthesizer in its portentous intro, but it's actually not quite as strange as \"Pim Pom\", which is all voice and percussion until a wild electric organ part comes in, essentially soloing under the vocals. The organ sounds suspended in the middle of the mix, mingling neither with the percussion nor the vocals but effective all the same. His final track, \"Yoro\", is a slow, pretty highlife. It's one of a few downtempo tracks that balance the running order, offsetting frantic songs such as Abelardo Carbonó y su Conjunto's frantic \"Quiero a Mi Gente\", which sounds like hyperspeed Peruvian chicha music.At this point, it's almost unremarkable when another longlost scene from some faraway corner of the world is unearthed and presented to the West in an easily digestible, wellproduced compilation. If you're a global vintage pop junkie, it's become a matter of, \"Oh, of course tons of amazing music was made in this place at that time, and here it is, thanks to someone else's hard work and passion.\" It almost feels like I should be bored or fatigued by it. But you know what? I'm not, and I think there's a stupidly simple reason for that: it's great music, and it fills a space, stylistically and sonically, that was previously empty. "}