{"label":" Merok","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15497/homepage_large.60efded2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Blondes","title":"Touched EP","text":" Blondes are one of many groups making music at the intersection of indie and dance, but a few things set the Brooklyn duo apart. Many of these acts start with pop structure and add beats and electronic arrangements borrowed from dance music. The best of these, like Delorean and ceo, combine elements in a way that appears seamless. But Blondes, who are friends Zach Steinman and Sam Haar, are more rooted in dance music proper. Rather than mixing styles, they build organic club music from the ground up using humble analog instruments. The result is kind of a bedroom take on Lindstrøm spacedisco ultimately better suited for headphones than the dancefloor.Blondes' debut single from last year, \"Spanish Fly\", was a fine encapsulation of their style. Introducing its sounds one at a time, the song has this great buildandrelease where the payoff comes late, but the leadup to it is just as fun. Touched is their first nonsingle release, and it stretches this approach out to five tracks. \"Spanish Fly\" is included, and there's another song I'll get to later that's as good, but a couple of others leave a bit to be desired. Blondes' tracks are very much about a slow unfurling of instruments there's a lot of restraint and craft that goes into them but they're linear in shape and tend to move in only one direction. For instance, opener \"You Mean So Much to Me\" has a lot of cool elements sparkling synths and depthcharge bass but a predictable composition: It builds, reaches a climax, then dials back down.With a song like that, you can't help but wish there was some more movement to it (the final track, \"Virgin Pacific\", is similarly static), but Blondes show more dynamism on the EP's two remaining tracks. The 11minute epic \"Moondance\" is the real winner here. There's an insistent piano and heavy bass holding it together, but the synths swoosh back and forth unpredictably, bouncing off one another in a way that makes it feel kind of bubbly and unstable. \"Paradise City\" takes the same approach and strikes a nice balance between Blondes' proggier, spacedisco tendencies and a peaceful, ambient vibe. That feeling exists through most of the EP, and on the whole it shows promise. It'll be interesting to see how Blondes do when they stretch out to fullalbum length the extra space might let them go even deeper. "}