{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15493/homepage_large.c0d21ba3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Kelis","title":"Flesh Tone","text":" Kelis is the unluckiest R&B singer of the modern era. She's enjoyed big hits that have crossed over from urban radio to the noveltyhungry pop audience. The problem is just that, though: Songs like \"Milkshake\" and \"Caught Out There\" were taken as novelty songs in the U.S. With Kelis classed as a weirdo outsider or worse, nothing more than a mouthpiece for the Neptunes both 1999's Kaleidoscope and 2003's Tasty sank from memory once America had squeezed her striking singles dry. Kelis hit the scene in that brief window opened by Missy Elliot, when it looked like R&B radio might have room for more than one oddball with an experimentalist's bent. Despite the fact that her producer pals had the zeitgeist in a stranglehold for a few years, this proved not to be case, to say the least.And so: the ninetrack Flesh Tone. A decade ago, this album would have been career suicide. Now, it sounds so ofthemoment, a fulllength exploration of the house music influence that's been all over the radio over the last few years, that it's easy to hear it as a preplanned attempt at nine hits in a row.If so, she's miscalculated a bit. This isn't one of will.i.am's stadiumstorming popdance hybrids, despite the fact that the BEP scourge is now one of Kelis' benefactors. Nor is it one of the oversugared confections Benny Blanco has spun for Britney or Ke$ha (where sugary becomes barfworthy). No, this is unadulterated house music, of the sort that's gripped continental European hedonists for almost 20 years. Fans of KelisasleftfieldR&Bsinger should consider themselves warned.Flesh Tone can be as harsh as anything the more brutalist French producers turned out last decade and as melodic as last season's Ibiza smashes. It's structured to flow as smoothly as a pop DJ mix, complete with shapeshifting instrumental segues between tunes. Kelis' producers, including such hipsterunfriendly names as David Guetta and Benny Benasi, have fashioned a catalog of superclub staple sounds. (Naysayers might call them clichés, with the obligatory upturned nose.)Naturally everything gets sweetened a bit, given that Kelis is still working with the radio (rather than the dancefloor) in mind. The electro riff on \"Acapella\" lurks in the background, under Kelis' lowkey ecstasy and Guetta's melodic bellsandwhistles. And \"Scream\" shifts from beachside house piano to Kelis imitating a haughty electroclash ingenue. All of this subgenre synthesizing is a bit shameless. It's also frequently great, at least if you're already enamored with big, bright, synthetic dance music.Now you can't entirely chalk up Kelis' career foibles to a mercurial marketplace, or an unadventurous public, or label mismanagement. Sure, she lacks the showstopping pipes of a Beyoncé. Most R&B singers do. But there's also something oddly mannered and/or affectless about many of her performances, which you can easily see alienating fans of a genre built on emoting. But here she's clearly working in the tradition of the archly mechanical disco diva, where little eruptions of passion color a delivery as metronomic as the beats. Whereas once her voice got lost between the Neptunes massive beats, on Flesh Tone Kelis blends with the rhythm for the first time.And yet, despite Britney revitalizing her career with an even more robotic sound, despite the fact that you can turn on the TV and see the (even more) affectless La Roux strutting her chilly stuff, \"Acapella\" bounced right off the U.S. pop charts, which bodes ill for Flesh Tone. Maybe Kelis just can't catch a break. Or maybe Americans still want popdance that's more pop than dance. Whatever her bad luck might be down to, Kelis can take some small comfort in having made her best album since Kaleidoscope. Hopefully the fullscale disco makeover won't scare off the futurefunk fans who've sustained her career thus far. "}