{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15496/homepage_large.6bfb68aa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Black Tusk","title":"Taste the Sin","text":" The single, substantive frill of Taste the Sin, the excellent Relapse debut album by Savannah, Ga., metal trio Black Tusk, comes as the final track begins. \"Well, hell, World War II gave us the ball point pen,\" says the actor Charles Tyner in a monologue excerpted from his hilarious role as the militant Uncle Victor in the 1971 film Harold and Maude. With tales of war and murder, and his welldecorated uniform, he brings the lugubrious teen Harold to some uncomfortable intersection of euphoria and orgasm. \"I say get the krauts on the other side of the fence where they belong. Let's get back to the kind of enemy worth killing.\"Black Tusk eventually interrupt Tyner's talk, massive drums and turbid guitar slashing through the script like lightning bolts. But the passage is significant as a thematic statement and by then, 34 minutes into these 37 a reminder of just how relentless and economical Taste the Sin has been. Jonathan Athon's swollen bass tone and the band's tendency to put it in the middle suggest fellow Southern metallurgists Weedeater, while the serrated vocals and midtempo dominance recall fellow Savannah lords Baroness. But Black Tusk's particular alchemy of metal and hardcore elides the fancy tangents of both bands, swapping Baroness' acoustic and hypertechnical alleyways and Weedeater's smokedskull drones for a deliberate, methodical mix of marches and sprints. Churning like hardcore and viscous like stoner metal, Taste the Sin is the rare crossover record that works to capitalize on the immediacy of its chosen genres and not to bend them into obscurity. It's a power play.The Harold and Maude sample provides a fitting cap for the album's nearmaniacal aggression, too. Pardon the binary, but this is primo dude metal high on might, speed, and aggression, rather low on finesse or grace. The cover by Baroness' John Baizley depicts a barebreasted woman who wields snakes as weapons and flowers as amulets. Inside, the grizzly trio peers from behind another nude warrior, this time with battle wounds on her face and black tusks extending rather crudely from her jaw. Oh, and the album is entirely about fighting wars and killing enemies, driving cars and crashing them.Presented as a conjoined pair of EPs, Taste the Sin comprises two distinct but unequivocally androgenic parts. The first six tracks praise guts and glory, each member passing around tales of epic conquests and last stands. \"Way of Horse and Bow\", for instance, opens with a shriek of \"Attack!\" over drums, guitar and bass that bludgeon a simple rhythm and riff. \"Hear my call/ Raise your swords/ Mount your steed/ Lord of lords,\" goes the first verse. The back half, a fourtrack suite called \"Double Clutchin'\", opens with a strongassteel instrumental, guitars lifting above the dense rhythm section like the hood ornament on a vintage sports car. It ends, of course, with a crash. \"Fuck you! This is my final farewell,\" goes one perfectly obstinate bit just before the accident. The intervening minutes are worth the disaster: Barreling ahead, pausing only long enough to lean into the curves, Black Tusk don't reinvent the wheel, nor do they try. They just go hard, fast, and long enough until, at the end of \"The Crash\", the wheel explodes. Black Tusk are left with nothing but their own defiance: \"Ain't goin' slow!\" they shout again and again. They're not lying, either. "}