{"label":" Scotch Tapes","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15488/homepage_large.99a53a37.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Fuck Winter","text":" Cassettes are appealing to some listeners in the digital age partly because they're inconvenient. Now that listeners are used to shuffling randomly between hundreds of gigabytes' worth of downloaded audio files, the tape format offers a cohesive, analog listening experience, without the ability to skip around even the way a vinyl record allows. This summer a few of the more interesting, upandcoming cassetteoriented labels Scotch Tapes, Moon Glyph, and Patient Sounds are making the search for quality music from the tape world a little easier by releasing compilations. Like Italian Beach Babes/Paradise Vendors label comp PVI006/IBB004 earlier this year, their efforts recall indie comps of decades past, curating a varied and occasionally inspired assortment of ramshackle artists based on a shared camaraderie that runs deeper than superficial styles.Fuck Winter: A Scotch Summer Mixtape, the firstever Scotch Tapes comp, is the only one of these three releases available exclusively on cassette. Fittingly, then, it's also the most in tune with the experimental and noise inclinations that kept the format alive in the underground prior to its recent miniresurgence. Run by Al Bjornaa out of Batchawana Bay, Ontario, Scotch Tapes has put out a tape by Oneida and a 7\" by Mike Watt project Al Qaeda, among other releases. Limited to 250 copies, Fuck Winter covers a lot of range in 23 tracks, each so short that if the industrial pummel of Endometrium Cuntplow or vuvuzelaesque James Chance freakouts of Tayside Mental Health aren't for you, just wait for the next track (there's no skipping, remember?). Iowa Citybased Wet Hair, whose Shawn Reed runs highly regarded tapefocused label Night People, shimmer through wordlessly hooky highlight \"Untitled\", which sounds like a halfremembered anthem from a climactic moment in a 1990s slacker movie, while Halifaxbased Fuck Montreal come across like a fascinatingly gothy lofi girl group on the perversely catchy \"Knife Fuck\". Different listeners will find different favorites amid the generally fuzzy, scrappy proceedings whether the English artpunk of Fever Fever, the Brooklyn postpunk of Talk Normal, or the sludgy riffage of Vancouverbased cassette regulars Shearing Pinx. As Glasgow's Divorce, not to be confused with Seattle's the Divorce, shout: \"You can have it all!\"Moon Glyph's Regolith Vol. 1 marks the Minneapolis label's first vinyl record, pressed in a 500LP edition. Accordingly, the psychheavy, 10track comp enjoys slightly higher fidelity, meaning slightly less homespun charm but a more headphonefriendly listening experience, emphasizing bands from the imprint's hometown. Many will want to seek this out, digitally if not on vinyl, for \"Surfer Girl\", a reverbkissed, disarmingly melodic janglepop love song by Minneapolis sextet Velvet Davenport, featuring chillwavecircle mainstays Ariel Pink and Gary War. Still, there are just as many rewards to be found in the oscillating, bassheavy ambience of Camden (a side project of Cole Weiland, from Minneapolis band Daughters of the Sun, also on this comp not the preDecibully emo group), the sunny powerpop guitar licks of fellow Mpls.ers Vampire Hands, or the tribal noisedisco of another area band, Skoal Kodiak. The release starts with Leisure Birds' sunbaked, organbacked whoaohohing, and ends with the alternating Southernrock guitar heroics and surreal sermonizing of Moonstone. \"This is something you could believe in, if you believed in things,\" sing Magic Castles. The psychrock underground in the Twin Cities, it appears, is alive and well.Patient Sounds, the label run by Matthew Sage of Fort Collins, Colo., psychrockers M. Pyres, has also issued its first comp, Patient Sounds Sampler V. 1, downloadable free from the label's blog or available for purchase on the band's tour. The release again confirms the wealth of talent making warm, gooey psych just below the average indie listener's radar. A new track from M. Pyres, \"Miles & Days Ahead\", is a sprawling instrumental, with crystalline guitar figures built for Built to Spill, and a bass line constantly burbling toward a release that never comes. Minneapolisbased Littoral Drift put earthy folk amid outerspace echo, recalling the acoustic work of Kurt Vile, while Greeley, Colo.based Ambassador Engine stick to wonderfully wobbly underwater séances. Bingo Pajamas, aka Brooklynbased Niki Smith, has arguably the comp's breakout moment, setting her murmured harmonies over an arrangement equal parts tUnEyArDs eccentric and Ciara sensual. While the Moon Glyph and Patient Sounds comps veer more toward chillwave than the Scotch Tapes tape, all reflect the unassuming variety of slightly warped sounds currently making their way onto cassette. Most importantly, all transcend the format altogether, even when, as with Fuck Winter, they benefit from its oldfashioned quirks. The medium is the message, sure, but in this case, the songs speak louder. "}