{"label":" Waaga","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15503/homepage_large.900e37d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Spirituals","title":"Spirituals","text":" Portland resident Tyler Tadlock is the man behind Spirituals, and one of his creative techniques is to record local free jazz ensembles and incorporate their noises into his own electronic compositions. If you're imagining an unholy matrimony of Autechre and Albert Ayler, slow your roll. Tadlock's synthesized soundscapes are busy but well behaved, full of precisely whirring, subtly interlocking little pieces. By the same token, his jazz accoutrements are applied openly but not overbearingly. Thin saxophone bleats float through the mix, while clattery percussion stumbles around but does its best not to knock over the furniture.What makes Spirituals work is the same ageold thing that helps make the Books or Four Tet work, namely the tension between efficient technology and messy humanity. \"City With Soul\" is a great example, as Tadlock blends an insistently mechanistic choppedup synth with swirly blobs of psychedelic keys, sax blurts, and gibbering voices. Ditto \"Pilsner\", which callously drops Shadowesque drumbeats and squawking sax all over an industrious little factory of maniacally repetitive pulses and tones (as you've perhaps surmised, saxophone is frequently the attentiongrabber here, much as it is in free jazz; Tadlock may dole it out judiciously, but it truly is the ghost in the machine).The more you listen to Spirituals, the greater sense you get of Tadlock as being the kind of guy who would spend hours setting up dominoes just for the thrill of toppling them. Like how \"Manzanita\" spends three and a half minutes following a lovingly intricate series of miniature electronic loops only to have a monkey wrench of jazz junk tossed into its gears. Or how the momentum of the opening \"Wanderings\", with its Morricone whistles and \"Baba O'Riley\" keys, keeps getting subtly undermined by arrogantly laggard drumbeats. As the album progresses, Tadlock's designs do begin to feel a little formulaic, and certainly he's working toward something that guys like Kieran Hebden and Dan Snaith have done better. Still, Tadlock is an engaging electronic craftsman, and the interjection of instrumental cacophony into his pieces is done consistently enough and well enough to grant the jazz clubtrawling Oregonian his own distinctive artistic voice. "}