{"label":" White Denim","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15506/homepage_large.59ecc452.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Tin Man","title":"Scared","text":" Tin Man goes straight for the gut. From his booming 808 kick drums to his viscous midrange, his music is a visceral presence, one that at times seems to be rumbling deep inside you. But that physicality doesn't negate its decidedly ethereal side. Tin Man's is also head music, from its psychoacoustic timbres to muttered vocals that play out like a stoned interior monologue.This is the seventh record from Tin Man, aka Johannes Auvinen, a Californian musician of Finnish descent who keeps quarters in Vienna. Beginning in 2004, he has released records on Sähko's Keys of Life sublabel, Patrick Pulsinger's Cheap, and his own Global A imprint; Scared turns up on White Denim, a Pennsylvania label that's home to an eclectic set of acts like Nice Nice, Mi Ami, and Eddy Current Suppression Ring.It might seem like an odd fit for an artist whose core aesthetic principles stem mostly from Chicago house and Hamburg's ambient house, but then, Tin Man has never really made \"straight\" dance music. He frequently dials his 808 back to a slowmotion crawl, and he suffuses most of his songs with a vocal delivery that sounds like Leonard Cohen on codeine. Unlike herkyjerky \"mnml\" house, this is truly minimalist stuff, content to leave the rhythmic grid riddled with empty space.True to its title, Scared is also plenty spooky, although, like most gothic music, it doesn't mind straddling camp. Some of his lyrics \"The whole world is just dragging me down/ Destroying me/ 'Til there's just a bad feeling left\" might be mistaken for the writing of Swans' M. Gira, sung in an intonation that borders on the morose. But it's hard not to hear a glimmer of good humor behind even his bleakest lines, as if this were a kind of parody of numbness, a deadpan autism.Mastered by Dubplates & Mastering's Rashad Becker, Scared luxuriates in sound at its most liquid: Rarely do you hear bass frequencies vibrate the way they do in the title track's opening passage, striking up a seasick harmony against muted electronic tones. Vocoder effects, paired with blurred, swirling synthesizers, similarly evoke underwater sensations, an almost amniotic sense of suspended animation.It's not hard to spot the influences informing Scared. The reductionist house productions bear comparison to Dial Records' Pantha du Prince and Lawrence; the vocoders immediately recall Ricardo Villalobos' \"Easy Lee\", while the nimble 808 programming is similar to that of Non Standard Institute's Tobias Freund. But Tin Man doesn't only pull from dance music. His ruminative mood and gravelly Sprechstimme are both anticipated by the Australian band Flash & the Pan's 1978 recording of \"Walking in the Rain\". I wouldn't be surprised if Auvinen himself didn't know that; it's not a terribly common recording. But the more distant reference points reinforce the sense that Tin Man's talent, beyond songwriting and sonics, has a lot to do with the way he filters farflung ideas into a unique, unexpected, and almost claustrophobically personal sound.For all its idiosyncrasies, Scared also feels uncannily current, playing with the same kinds of overcast moods and brokendown tempos, the same Khole stasis and feelgood bumout, that you might find running through the music of the xx, Fever Ray, witch house, or Sunn 0))). But Tin Man is also very much different, and seven records later, he sounds more and more like no one except himself. An album perfectly suited to a crashandburn era, Scared is an ode to depleted serotonin whose very ambiguity makes it all the more addictive. "}