{"label":" St. Ives","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15509/homepage_large.0f71ce69.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Man Forever","title":"Man Forever","text":" The way Kid Millions' first solo record came together was both highly conceptual and punkishly simple. When the Oneida drummer saw the Fireworks Ensemble recreate the electrified din of Lou Reed's Metal Machine Music with acoustic instruments, a question came to mind how could he use drums to make similar noise? His answer was to set his kit to precise tunings, improvise on it repeatedly, and mesh the results into one polyrhythmic mass. Jumping on the idea, he asked Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Brian Chase to help prep his drums, enlisted Sightings' Richard Hoffman to add bass textures, and recorded two sidelength pieces in two days.The results, released under the hippyish moniker Man Forever, are as conceptual and immediate as the process that created them. The album is definitely more abstract than most of Oneida's work, though you can hear their knack for coloring outside of rock lines in Millions' tumbling cacophony. But Man Forever is more of a visceral experience than an intellectual one. It's tough to ruminate on just intonation or calculate sonic sinewaves when your head is drowning in a waterfall of beats.Note that I say \"waterfall\" rather than \"blizzard\" or \"barrage.\" Millions' layered drumming may sound loose and wild, but it's not confrontational, and not even that noisy. It often has the soothing effect of random rain on a rooftop. There is a spiritual connection to the noise of Metal Machine Music, though, in Man Forever's combination of precision and unpredictability. Reed claimed to have carefully embedded MMM with references to classical music, but also suggested that he just let feedback run amok. One of the great things about MMM is that both scenarios are plausible the record is both sharp and outofcontrol. Man Forever has a similar dual personality. Millions' drums spill forward without pause, and his mix is unhinged enough to allow for spontaneous peaks and wavy pushandpull. But there's detail inside the layers. Often his pointillist drum strikes perfectly avoid collision, like knives stabbed into the spaces between fingers.Of course, knife tricks can go from fascinating to tedious quickly, and there are portions of Man Forever that get slightly monotonous. Sometimes the beats blur into a mix thinner than the onetake work of hyperactive drummers like William Hooker or Chris Corsano. Those lulls are pretty rare, though, and Millions was wise to combat them with Hoffman's contributions. The bassist's highwhirring bass timbres mirror the overtones of Millions' drumming so strongly that when Millions falls away and leaves Hoffman to churn alone, the beats seem to echo in his waves of fuzz.Millions has already started performing a version of Man Forever with Chase, Hoffman, and other drummers. Perhaps the project will grow to the proportions of the Boredoms' 77 BOADRUM, which he often participates in. There's certainly room for new takes on the massive drum spectacle, but there's also something special about a oneman version. The Man Forever concept has a personal feel that will be essential as Millions steers it forward. Given his track record as a sonic adventurer, I wouldn't bet against him. "}