{"label":" American Dust","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15513/homepage_large.349709ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Department of Eagles","title":"Archives 2003-2006","text":" Daniel Rossen's main act, Grizzly Bear, are unexpectedly popular, hitting the Billboard top 10 and provoking namedrops from such culturally disparate figures as JayZ and Michael McDonald. So why was In Ear Park, the 2008 sophomore effort from Department of Eagles, Rossen's side project with college roommate Fred Nicolaus, so criminally overlooked? Perhaps it was because of the nature of Rossen's songcraft itself. From his winding, unconventional guitarled melodies to his tendency to prefer lyrical obtuseness, a whole album of material heavy on his participation can come off as overly arch and severe. In short, In Ear Park was rich with texture and detail, but it also demanded a patience that even Grizzly Bear's most baroque moments don't.Archives 20032006, a collection of unreleased material taken from various sessions Rossen and Nicolaus recorded in between their 2003 debut, The Cold Nose, and In Ear Park, might provide an easier entry point. The overall feel is looser, more freewheeling; although a good deal of these recordings were taken from an aborted attempt at recording a followup to The Cold Nose, nothing smacks of creative frustration. Rather, you get the feeling that these two guys have a lot of fun playing together, like two session musicians improvising in between takes. \"While We're Young\" and \"Brightest Minds\" are breezy and fleetfooted, the former building to a driving climax and the latter bursting into toetapping countermelodies without batting an eyelash.Indeed, considering that this is for all intents and purposes an oddsandsods collection, it's shocking how fully formed this material sounds. Rossen and Nicolaus barely flinch throughout, employing expert phrasing to turn even the collection's slightest opening melody (the Nicolausled \"Grand Army Plaza\") into throbbing, moonlit romanticism. Even the \"Practice Room Sketches\" that act as interstitials throughout the record are packed with ideas, evoking vocal groups, musique concrète, and afterdark piano jazz.That last one is integral, considering Rossen's jazz training. That specialized training factors into Rossen's strong ear for the elements of composition. There are two moments on Archives that have been recontextualized in other works of his that especially stand out. The first is the deceptively jaunty guitars of \"Deadly Disclosure\", which were turned into the ending of In Ear Park's haunting closer \"Balmy Night\". The appearance of the source material is surprising, especially since it's used in a completely emotional context. Even more surprising are the snatches of discordant, minimalistic piano in \"Practice Room Sketch 1\", which appeared ever so briefly in \"Easier\", the opening track to Grizzly Bear's 2006 breakthrough, Yellow House. It's a blinkandyou'llmissit moment, which makes his own later reconfiguring that much more remarkable.For Grizzly Bear fans and Department of Eagles devotees alike, Archives 20032006 is a document rich with revelatory moments and educatory touchstones but as an album, it functions even better. You can put this thing on from front to back and not even be able to tell that these were taken from disparate sessions spanning three years; it is that surprisingly cohesive. Even when they don't mean to, Rossen and Nicolaus come off as impeccably having their shit together. "}