{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15517/homepage_large.1cb900c3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Light Pollution","title":"Apparitions","text":" Due to the eccentric roster that Carpark Records has accumulated over the years, Chicago's Light Pollution stand out amongst their labelmates because they seem completely normal. On their debut LP, Apparitions, they serve up a good oldfashioned helping of ascendant song structure, washedout synthesizer textures, and new wave basslines, all swaddled in heavy reverb. And by \"good oldfashioned,\" I mean circa early 2005. In the wake of Funeral's success, this was the kind of thing you probably called \"indie rock\" with no qualifiers.This style isn't as prevalent as it was in years past, but that's not necessarily an obstacle. There's an undeniable potency when this stuff's done right: Antlers rode it to plenty of 2009 bestof lists. But rather than putting emotional resonance or compelling melodies at the forefront, Apparitions more often simply assumes its own grandiosity, and ultimately comes off like selffulfilling prophecy instead of genuine drama. There are plenty of Big Moments here: Opener \"Good Feelings\" empties all of its chambers with a portentous fadein, stately drumbeat, and rafterreaching choruses; \"Witchcraft\" breaks into a waltztime chorale meant to serve as Apparitions' showstopping climax. But Light Pollution simply dive in when they should build. Perhaps it would be less of an issue if James Michael Cicero brought more distinction and command to his vocals, his voice often overwhelmed by its surroundings.That Apparitions never quite peaks the way it aims to makes its slower numbers total momentum killers instead of contextual turning points.  \"Deyci, Right On\" and \"Ssslowdreamsss\" both slog through seven minutes of interminable lazerFloyd atmosphere, stopping Apparitions dead in its tracks. Unsurprisingly, Apparitions fares best when it actually is freed from its ambitions. The swinging piano pop of \"Oh, Ivory!\" stresses its verse melody to great effect, while there's a tension between the sleek, aerodynamic verse of \"Fever Dreams\" and a chorus that captures the band's potential in miniature.  \"Fever Dreams\" would otherwise be something of a standout, but Light Pollution once again get into their own way, succumbing to a zerogravity fadeout indicative of the many moments where the band takes their name too literally: Nearly the entirety of Apparitions feels covered by some haze that's equal parts car exhaust and glitter. "}