{"label":" 130701","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15511/homepage_large.1ddb39db.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Max Richter","title":"Infra","text":" Max Richter's music could broadly be classified as neoclassical, or ambient, or electroacoustic chamber music. These descriptors give you an idea of his sound, but they don't tell you what the music feels like. So while I can recognize those generic touchstones, I hear Richter's music first as night music, sound that makes darkness feel alive. I don't tend to associate music with a mood or a time of day or a season, but I like to listen to his albums when I'm working late. I have an iTunes playlist called \"That Feeling\" (socalled because it's something I can't quite name), and it is 50% Richter. His music both captures a specific atmosphere and also feels internal.Infra fairly brims with these qualities. Scored for piano, electronics, and string quartet, it's an expansion of a 25minute piece Richter wrote for a collaboration with choreographer Wayne McGregor and artist Julian Opie. The latter contributed video projections of scenes from everyday life that ran behind the dancers. I can see how the music might complement the piece. His work has an amazing ability to interact with and elevate banality. It's not an uncommon trick to pair a mundane shot two businessmen shaking hands, someone cleaning out a garage, birds landing on a wire with slow and pretty music. But when it's done well, such juxtapositions still have the power to turn the everyday rigmarole we're seeing onscreen into something emotionally charged.It's as though music allows us to see the melancholy or even futility of activities we take for granted. The more mundane the activity and the more achingly gorgeous the music, the more we feel the effect. And this music is achingly gorgeous. It's also uncomplicated. If one were to transcribe it, it would look childishly simple on the page: long, held notes, a few repeating phrases locked together, some strings working their way through a chord progression, note by note. But it's not the substance of the music that matters so much as the way it's all put together, and the way the composer understands timbre and what it can suggest. Here, on \"Infra 7\", Richter pulls the strings through electronic processing to give them a hollow, glassy tone that's completely at odds with the sound of vibrating strings bouncing off wood, the dominant sound of the rest of the album. And by setting you momentarily outside of the rich texture he's acclimated you to, he makes you feel all the more at home when it comes back, full bore, on \"Infra 8\".I should note that the original inspiration for the whole collaborative project was T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land, a work of great power in its own right that has been overreferenced through the years, to the point where it can feel a bit old hat. But the Eliot poem falls by the wayside as a reference point as the piece progresses, and its haunted aura seems to have remained mostly as an echo in the music. Regardless, Infra works as an enveloping and moving work even absent any knowledge of its beginnings. Others may glean different feelings from it than I do, but that is part of the point. Even if it conjures nothing of the night for you, it is some of Richter's very best work. And if you've ever cared about his music, it will make you feel something. "}