{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15520/homepage_large.bbcbba45.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Autechre","title":"Move of Ten","text":" It's not unusual for Autechre to go a couple of years between fulllengths. So two in the span of a couple of months Sean Booth and Rob Brown have never released two Autechre albums in a single year is a pretty big deal. Why the quick followup to Oversteps? From the sound of these two records, it seems possible that Booth and Brown generated a large batch of material in the two years since Quaristice and decided to split it into complementary records, each with a different focus. While Oversteps had a number of drifting, ambient pieces mixed in with rhythmoriented tracks that at times nodded toward dubstep, Move of Ten puts its emphasis on sharp beats that mostly stay within conventional meters. With these two records following on the more variable Quaristice, an album of shorter tracks that seemed to touch on almost every sound they've ever tried, that makes three pretty different albums in a row for Autechre, which is encouraging. I say \"pretty different\" because we're not talking about records that sound like they could have come from completely different artists. Even if the title of opening track \"EtchogonS\" didn't clue you in to who we're dealing with, the skittering halfbroken beat and sharp synth stabs that verge on sounding random would do the trick. The track almost seems designed to inspire a \"Yep, sounds like Autechre\" sigh from its first few seconds, which isn't going to bring back anyone who tuned out somewhere around the time of 2001's Confield. Autechre have fiercely loyal fans who look forward to whatever they do next, but my sense is that they used to attract a lot more of the merely curious than they do now. And for those who followed along for a record or two a decade ago before finding more pleasure in something like, say, Four Tet, there's little here to bring them back in the fold. Autechre still specialize in dense, complicated, and texturally rich sounds that upend ideas of what music might be. Word that they are continuing these experiments while bringing 4/4 beats into the mix won't be enough for most. But for those who want to give them another try, this is the most forceful Autechre record in a while. Their beats are stripped down and hit a little harder, and their skewed takes on dance music techno and especially electro are convincing. Autechre's love of electro and the production of old school hiphop producer Kurtis Mantronik in particular has been a steady source of inspiration since their inception. When you listen to Mantronik's productions for Mantronix or rapper JustIce, you get a sense of just what Autechre heard in his music: The sharp crack of the era's drum machines and the wild stabs of synth both sound very 80s and also like another era's interpretation of the future. They also sound like brilliant examples of urban culture using discarded bits of its past in a new way. Certain tracks here, like \"pce freeze 2.8i\" with its booming lowend snapped tightly into a computer grid or \"rew(1)\" with its slippery alien bassline and hissy electronic handclaps, sound like they could be the instrumental realization of the new century being imagined 25 years ago. This stuff is strange and eerie and offkilter but still in its own way funky, and it's the kind of thing Booth and Brown have always done better than just about anyone else. \"M62\" with its steady kickdrums and jittery but warm synths is a warm and inviting bit of Detroitstyle electro in the vein of Drexciya, where the following \"ylm0\" is the album's \"pretty\" track, sounding a bit like a Boards of Canada interlude playback powered by double the suggested voltage. At 10 songs and 47 minutes, Move of Ten is relatively lean and digestible. There's none of the formal innovation that Autechre were doing around the turn of the millennium, but for my money that's a good thing. They claimed their new ground long ago, and since then they've been growing new music on it. Some of it has been excellent, some a shadow of past glories. With the addition of this solid LP, the 2010 harvest suggests that the soil has a few seasons in it yet. "}