{"label":" Island","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15522/homepage_large.f3fc3300.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Bombay Bicycle Club","title":"Flaws","text":" Bombay Bicycle Club's debut album, last year's I Had the Blues But I Shook Them Loose, posited the group as imitative but energetic postpunk revivalists, doling out artily precise poprockers with liveliness and strong chops. The band now follows that effort with its allacoustic sophomore longplayer, Flaws.Wait, did I miss a few steps? Since when does a boisterous young rock group make a fullon introspective acoustic move on its second freaking album? This may come as a shock, but Bombay Bicycle Club didn't exactly master its initial sound on its debut (most bands don't manage that feat in just one album). The group's members are barely out of their teens, so perhaps the fickleness of youth explains their inconstancy. In any event, it seems that between records someone fell hard for the pretty folk of Nick Drake, John Martyn, and Joanna Newsom. And by \"someone\" I mean \"probably lead singer Jack Steadman,\" given the extent to which his words and voice now dominate the proceedings. Kind of makes you wonder how onboard the rest of the band were with this abrupt stylistic shift.Taking a folkier turn might make sense on paper considering Steadman's voice possesses a nicely quavering element that isn't far off from Devendra Banhart's. Yet the lyrics and arrangments here aren't a fraction as bold or as singular. Flaws is wellproduced, many of its songs nicely augmented by fleet drumming and intricate guitar figures, but Steadman's lack of having anything interesting to say and inability to say it distinctively ultimately sinks the endeavor. Sure, the guitars on \"Rinse Me Down\" evoke Out of Timeera R.E.M. while \"Many Ways\" offers pleasant Sufjanish banjos, but Steadman replaces the incision of those artists with empty floridity and moody romanticism. The group covers Martyn here, and it's telling that they choose the juvenilia of \"Fairytale Lullaby\". If Steadman and his mates are really so deadset on being sober young  men, someone needs to buy them a copy of Grace & Danger, stat.Listening to Flaws and knowing what a spirited racket these kids are capable of making, I want to grab all of them by the cheeks like Adam Sandler does to his chubby thirdgrade classmate in Billy Madison and yell, \"For the love of God, you have to cherish it!\" There will be plenty of time to become pussies later on down the road. "}