{"label":" Gronland","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15534/homepage_large.79b77bb2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Neu!","title":"Neu! Vinyl Box","text":" There are not many great bands whose canon is as neatly formed as Neu!'s once was. Between 1972 and 1975, the duo of drummer/singer/guitarist Klaus Dinger and guitarist Michael Rother, both of whom had previously played in a shortlived lineup of Kraftwerk, made three albums together. (They were effectively a threemember duo: the contributions of the late producer Conny Plank probably meant as much as Dinger's or Rother's.) They were a new kind of rock band: they stripped away the idea of song and riff, and made texture everything. The first, selftitled Neu! album is as visionary a record as has ever been made. Its opening track \"Hallogallo\" was their manifesto: a single hovering chord, a single beat, rolling forward for 10 minutes that might as well be forever, with tiny variations. Some people called their signature rhythm \"motorik\"; Dinger later called it the \"long line.\"Neu! were named after the sort of \"new\" that appeared on grocerystore boxes containing a different version of the same old thing, and 1973's Neu! 2 is a visionary stopgap product. \"Für Immer\", which occupies half of the first side, is a soupedup remake of \"Hallogallo\"; the second side, generated in a hurry when Dinger and Rother ran out of studio time, is both sides of a single they'd released a bit earlier, plus the same material played at 16 RPM, at 78 RPM, and on a broken tape deck. Neu! 75 sounded like the band was on the verge of shaking apart, which it was. (The scalding, Dingerdriven second side, with its two extra drummers, became a touchstone for early punk rock; the floating meditations of the first side weren't too far from the ambient music that Rother's occasional collaborator Brian Eno was devising around the same time.) Rother and Dinger's remarkable musical chemistry was matched by what appears to have been a neartotal inability to agree on anything, and after 75, they split.But the break wasn't as clean as it might have been, which is why this vinyl boxed set contains five records instead of three. There's also a Neu! stencil (should you feel like spraypainting their logo on any public buildings), a nice big booklet, and a code that gets you a Tshirt and digital downloads of all the music. The bonus records, though, are the real bait here, and they're not so much missing chapters from the band's history as they are Rother's version of Dinger's cashins. In the mid90s, Dinger released two more albums' worth of his Rother collaborations without Rother's consent. Dinger died in 2008, and now Rother has returned to that material to put his own stamp on it.Neu! '72 is a maxisingle with three liveinthepracticespace jams, edited by Rother from the much longer, murky rehearsal tape that Dinger released as '72 Live. If you've ever wondered if there's any document of the postfirstalbum lineup that included guitarist Eberhard Kranemann, the answer is \"Yes, there exists such a document.\" That's all that can be said for it.And Neu '86 that's a tricky one. Rother and Dinger reunited (without Conny Plank) in the mid80s to see if the old magic was still there, and most of it wasn't. They abandoned the sessions before they finished an album; the digital drums and synth pads they used sound much more dated than anything they'd done a decadeplus earlier. Dinger called his 1995 version of it Neu! 4 it's been out of print for a good long while and hasn't really been missed. This significantly shorter version has been reworked and \"finished\" by Rother. It sounds like an undercooked, mostly instrumental mid80s synthpop album with a mild but pleasant Neu! influence among its Flock of Seagullsisms.The booklet that comes with the set is a loose assemblage of photographs, quotations, testimonials, a history of the band, and a bit of critical writing a real boon for fans. What it unavoidably presents, though, along with '72 and '86, is the Rother perspective on Neu!, in which Dinger was a crucial contributor but alternately an impediment and a loose cannon, and Rother was the one steadfastly working to preserve the glory of their collaboration. As with Dinger's versions of the two discs that deform the band's body of work, this set seems like one side of an argument in which neither side is actually in the right. "}