{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15537/homepage_large.bacb9a06.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Zero 7","title":"Record: The Best of Zero 7","text":" The first disc of Record might be the most instantly forgettable \"greatest hits\" compilation I've ever heard. Even for the world of downtempo, that's saying something. Because hell, I once owned a copy of The Very Best of Morcheeba, but even that was enlivened for a few seconds by a brief appearance from an elderly Big Daddy Kane. No such luck here. Even hiphop's senior citizens would be too energetic to fit comfortably on a Zero 7 album.After all, downtempo's whole point was to facilitate relaxation. You bought a downtempo record because you thought you wanted the trappings of pop (rhythm, melody, voice) but really you just wanted something unobtrusively chill. Portishead albums? Those were full of all that icky human emoting. For downtempo buyers, it didn't much matter what the vocalists were actually singing or that every rhythm was the same stagnant fiveminute lounge muzak loop or that the melodies were of the myfirstguitarlesson sort. They wanted formulaic, napinducing gunk that sounded great.Did Zero 7's music sound great? You betcha. The \"hits\" on Record positively gleam. Even Mutt Lange would nod approvingly (provided you could find him). Lush background ambience? Obsessively polished instrumental textures? Superhumanly slick vocal tracks? Got 'em. But interesting arrangements? Novel rhythms? Memorable voices? An ounce of sweat? A hint of grit? The slightest edge of disquiet? Energy? Bad jokes? Tunes with any sort of staying power? Not so much.Forget Airattheirairiest or even the vaporously vapid loops of Thievery Corporation. Zero 7's real roots are in the VH1 Top 20 Countdown circa the turn of the millennium, when genteel major label singersongwriters \"went electronic.\" Zero 7 take this already zzzz sound and proceed to scrape it clean of individuality, wit, and charm. At the band's least ambitious, which is to say 95% of their material, the results are as numbingly flat as you'd expect. You'll hear music with more personality coming out of North Korea these days.I'm not trying to be needlessly cruel here. The real problem is that the bestof format actually works against Zero 7 by ignoring the nonsingles that added, however rarely, some muchneeded variety to their albums. Because there have been Zero 7 tracks that I've enjoyed. Like the featherweight fake dubstep number from their last album. Oh, and the one that sounded like an ad agency's take on glitch. Unfortunately those random highlights in the band's catalog have all been oneoff, albumonly oddities and hence excised from the Record.At the same time, it's not as if I've enjoyed any of Zero 7's subgenrebites as much as I've enjoyed actual Burial or Fennesz records, which leads us to the second disc of Record. You may have read that Record comes with a bunch of remixes by firstrank producers/bands from across the spectrum of modern beatculture. Names like Dilla, Justus Kohncke, and Joker. Perhaps these avant knobtwiddlers might inject some of the scenespecific energy/innovation so lacking in Zero 7's waterweak \"cosmopolitan\" sound?If only. There are more highlights on Disc Two of Record than Disc One, but a lot fewer than you'd expect given the lineup. Bugz in the Attic evoke the muchmissed 2step garage sound and bring a wild sense of syncopation to Zero 7's music for the first time. (Even moreso on their dub mix of \"Distractions\", which blessedly ditches the original \"song.\") Joker and Ginz obliterate the offtherack dancerock of \"Everything Up (Zizou)\" with a nowpatented blast of 8bit distortion, and it's all to the good.But from Dilla to Fred Falke, most of these remixers run through their own wellknown tricks with all the bythenumbers verve of Zero 7 itself. A dirty, offkilter breakbeat isn't going to automatically turn a desultory torch song into an Erykah Badu tune, as much as band, producer, and listener alike might hope. Half of these producers sound like they were very hardpressed to turn Zero 7's thirdrate originals into anything worth a second play. The other half sound like they treated the commission as just another check to be cashed. It's hard to argue with the logic, and very easy to ignore the end result. "}