{"label":" Roc-A-Fella / DD172 / BluRoc","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15532/homepage_large.4454be02.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Curren$y","title":"Pilot Talk","text":" Almost midway into Pilot Talk, there's a line that gets right to the heart of Curren$y's appeal: \"Xbox web browser/ Download a updated NBA roster/ Play a 82game season/ Condo full of snacks, Spitta not leaving.\" Not too many rappers could get away with bragging about sitting in their apartments all day playing NBA Live and eating Doritos, and even fewer would try. But Curren$y has hit a certain level of mixtapelevel cult stardom in part because he's perfected his amiable everydude stoner persona, and that comes across vividly in that line even though he never mentions weed. He doesn't have to; it's implied. The other thing about that line is its specificity. Curren$y's not just a guy who plays NBA Live all day; he's also one who makes sure he does it right, getting the updated roster. It might harsh his buzz if new Bull Carlos Boozer suddenly turned up in his old Utah Jazz uniform. He appreciates the smaller things.Curren$y's also had a weird, bouncedaround career. The New Orleans rapper got his start in Master P's thenwaning No Limit empire, then jumped to Cash Money, playing foil and second banana to Lil Wayne during Wayne's historic mixtape run a few years back. But he left the label just as Wayne was becoming the most popular rapper in the world. And he presumably did it so he could clear his own path, rapping about the stuff he actually cared about. Over a few years' worth of heavy mixtapecircuit work, he's become a great rapper with his own aesthetic he's a nimble, affectless drawler who favors airy, spacedout beats. Like friend and frequent collaborator Wiz Khalifa, he's become one of the dominant voices in the rap underground by making a form of unassuming stonerrap that owes virtually nothing to J Dilla. And with Pilot Talk, he gets his moment.Pilot Talk finds Curren$y working almost exclusively with 90s New York producer Ski Beatz an unexpected but inspired collaborative pairing. Ski, best known for the beats he contributed to JayZ's Reasonable Doubt, is even more beloved for Uptown Saturday Night, the album from the linguistically forward NYC duo Camp Lo that he helmed. And in a way, Pilot Talk strikes some of the same chords as Uptown smart kids bullshitting with each other, using rap to play around with language and talk as much fly shit as possible.Musically, Pilot Talk is a warm, lowkey affair. Ski's tracks can be breathtakingly gorgeous without ever getting in Curren$y's way. There's a lush, languid, almost psychrock feel to the album. It's so goddamn pretty throughout, all those guitars and pianos and organs and horns layered on top of each other. And Curren$y just inhabits this sonic wonderland, letting his voice sink deep into every track. Even though his delivery and persona couldn't be more different, he's got almost the same accent as B.G., another former Cash Money guy. And that's a great rap voice, just perfect for these wry little observations that he's so good at.There's a lot of talk about money and girls on Pilot Talk and a whole lot of talk about weed but my favorite moments come when Curren$y takes delight in some random nonsense. On \"Skybourne\", he brags about how welltrained his dogs are. On \"Roasted\", he offers an enthusiastic endorsement of the lemonade at the Tribeca restaurant Bubby's (\"not that Minute Maid crap, they squeeze these lemons theyself\"). And on \"King Kong\", he offers this: \"Upstate New York, Woodstock, Saugerties/ The view from my rocking chair you would not believe.\"A few famous guests turn up on the album (Snoop Dogg, Mos Def), but most of those sitting in are friends like Trademark or underground peers like Big K.R.I.T. and an onfire Jay Electronica, who offers the album's most energetic moment. About half the songs drift by without choruses, and the other half only barely have anything you could call a chorus. The whole thing is over in about 45 minutes. It all adds up to a woozy waft of a record a perfect listen for midsummer, when breathing in the humid air is almost enough to get you high. "}