{"label":" Woodsist","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15536/homepage_large.5426eb43.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Welcome Home/Diggin' the Universe","text":" The ramshackle, the bleary, the vagabond they've all got a home at Woodsist. The tiny label, managed by Jeremy Earl of its flagship band, Woods, has carved out an undeniable aesthetic over the years, one its new cassetteandLPonly compilation seems determined to shake out a bit. Welcome Home/Diggin' the Universe earns its slashmark. Its first half collects seven songs that hold close to the midmorning Creedence Clearwater comedown mode the label's become known for; the second runs the gamut from run'n'gun poppunk to prim Sarah Recordsstyle twee. It is, somewhat by design, a fairly uneven collection, but it nevertheless showcases the two sides of Woodsist's vision. Woods set the tone of the comp's first half with their sunbleached ambler \"I'm Not Gone\", the set's highlight. It's got a wonderfully casual feel to it, each seam of its recording showing, and while it lacks some of that undercurrent of dread marking their best stuff, it's yet another win for the band. From there all the way Home, it's variations on a theme; Baltimore's Run DMT mostly leave the hypnagogy behind for a crackly, decaying, somewhat unsteady folkrocker. White Fence slide a bumpy organ under the slack \"The Love Between\". San Fran's the Fresh & Onlys offer another tour of their garage with the bluessoaked lament \"Heel. Toe.\". From the Mantles' basher \"Bad Movies\" to Skygreen Leopards' Byrdsian cover of the Cure's \"Catch\", there's certainly some spread between the tunes, but they're tied together by their shambolic production and devilmaycare pacing. The set's got an easy feel to it, and when Real Estate's Alex Bleeker brings it to a close with his impressive countrytinged strummer \"Gettin By\", the label's lowimpact, highyield mission becomes quite selfapparent.Diggin' the Universe proves a far wilder and woollier affair than what precedes it. Moon Duo's \"A Little Way Different\" most certainly is; not only a departure for the comp, it's something of a switch for the band itself, a comparatively cleareyed modspy groover reminiscent of Yo La Tengo at their most playful. It kicks off a second half that feels like a mixtape rather than a label comp, and it's a welcome change of pace. City Center tackle the Grateful Dead's eternal \"Box of Rain\", smothering it in reverb but maintaining the song's easy beauty, turning in one of the more exquisite and certainly least jambandy Dead covers you're likely to hear. CaUSE coMOTION! knock out fun little piffle \"Over U\" in just short of two minutes, and Skygreen affiliates the Art Museums turn in the graceful but slight \"Darling Are You Out of Your League Again\". NODZZZ pull another catchy pile of whoaohs out of nowhere, although they drown \"Old Clothes\" in enough scuzz that the results are a tad drab. Ducktails' beauteous \"Sun Out My Window\" certainly sounds like its title, a rangy little meanderer that feels like sleeping through your alarm and realizing you didn't have much to do anyway.That lack of urgency, time unspooling rather than continuing apace, is certainly a mark against many of these tracks; the willful amateurishness of much of this stuff, both compositionally and sonically, can feel at times a bit unfinished and, at its worst, unconcerned. The best stuff tends to stick fairly close to versechorusverse, it just plays with said structure with dirtembedded fingernails; often the other songs feel a bit too formless, too casual. But most of Welcome Home/Diggin' the Universe puts the song out in front of the vibe, in much the same way Woods' recent At Echo Lake shed some of the wayfaring feel of Songs of Shame and just got down to it. Wobbly as the sonics may sometimes get, so long as Woodsist continues to keep the songs surefooted, the label's path seems clear. "}