{"label":" Turnstile","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15548/homepage_large.42389025.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Tony Da Gatorra vs. Gruff Rhys","title":"The Terror of Cosmic Loneliness","text":" The wonderful thing about the Super Furry Animals is the way they make the most illogical ideas seem perfectly sensible. Experimentation in rock music often implies a certain degree of pretentiousness and studiousness, but since their formation 15 years ago, the Super Furries and their offshoots have embraced the anarchic joy in pushing the structural and conceptual parameters of their psychedelic pop songs. So when band leader Gruff Rhys announced that his next extracurricular release would be an album recorded with Brazilian VCR repairman/peace activist Tony Da Gatorra, using his namesake homemade synthesizer/drummachine contraption, the immediate response wasn't so much \"WTF?\" as \"but of course.\"The byproduct of the South American sojourn captured in Rhys' recent documentary, Separado! an exploration of his familial roots in Argentina's small Welsh expat community The Terror of Cosmic Loneliness diverges sharply from the winsome folkrock that's defined Rhys' two solo albums to date and the sleek synthpop of his John Deloreaninspired Neon Neon project, not to mention the Super Furries' grand, proggedout epics. This is lofi electropunk done favelastyle, on the cheap and on the fly. (Recording reportedly took all of five hours.) The operative word here is the \"vs.\" separating the two principals' names on the album cover: The songs on The Terror of Cosmic Loneliness share the same rudiments Rhys' nastily distorted guitar riffs and the skeletal click tracks produced by Tony's Gatorra but given that the songwriting is split evenly between two guys from very different backgrounds who don't speak the same language, their respective contributions contrast considerably.Sonically, the album is of a piece with the earliest homerecording excursions of Ween and Royal Trux, wherein the tinny resonance of the synthetic rhythms and the phasedout fuzz of the guitars bleed into the same cacophonous frequency. But even in these harsh environs, Rhys' melodic graces still shine through: It's not hard to imagine the robot rock of \"In a House With No Mirrors (You'll Never Get Old)\" and the T. Rexy \"Oh Warra Hoo!\" being used as raw demos for future SFA elaboration. Da Gatorra's Portuguesesung compositions, however, are far more demanding, and not just on account of the language barrier. According to the accompanying press materials, Da Gatorra's message is one of peaceful protest and the inevitable triumph of good over evil, but his delivery is far more caustic than such hippiecentric platitudes would suggest.Not being a naturally gifted singer or songwriter, Da Gatorra opts for circular singspeak rants positing him as something of a Brazillian Mark E. Smith whose repeated refrains provide some semblance of structure but are prone to rambling on arbitrarily past the fiveminute mark. There are certainly moments on \"O Que Tu Tem\" and \"Voz Dos Semterra\" where you can hear Rhys' guitar playfully joust with Da Gatorra's stream of verbiage, and you get a genuine sense of two new friends with different tongues devising their own unique mode of communication. But with most of Da Gatorra's tracks locked into minimal, metronomic beats, and precious little in the way of discernible melody or groove to latch onto, there's no compelling reason for nonPortuguesespeaking listeners to revisit them. When Rhys reemerges late in the album for the cool, Suicidestyled Parisianprotest salute \"6868\", you're not so much appreciative of the change in pace as left wondering how exactly these songs are supposed to relate to one another. The Terror of Cosmic Loneliness may attempt to forge a common ground between two transAtlantic artists, but even when working from the same instrumental base, the sensibilities at play here are still oddly segregated. "}