{"label":" Decon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15558/homepage_large.1987a339.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Freddie Gibbs","title":"Str8 Killa EP","text":" On Twitter, Freddie Gibbs has complained a couple of times about other rappers biting his style. But it's tough to imagine who he's talking about, or what a Freddie Gibbs style bite would even sound like. Gibbs isn't a stylistic trailblazer; he's a synthesist. He sounds like a labcreated hybrid of every person who was making gangsta rap in about 1995. In his nimble baritone, I hear trace elements of Krayzie Bone's astoundingly fluid singsong doubletime, MC Eiht's bloodyminded exuberance, Scarface's conflicted gravitas, Buckshot's hardnosed weedtalk, and about a hundred other traits from a hundred other guys. If you love these rappers, Gibbs' music works as a sort of expertly delivered, deeply felt comfortfood sort of like how Band of Horses works for Neil Young fans. We're probably not going to hear any new ideas from Gibbs, but we are going to hear old ideas rendered very, very well.At this point, Gibbs' story is a familiar one: A majorlabel castoff who picked up the pieces of his career by attacking the mixtape circuit and building up a grassroots buzz that no label could manufacture. The Miseducation of Freddie Gibbs and Midwestgangstaboxframecadillacmuzik, the two great mixtapes Gibbs released in 2009, were furious, urgent pieces of work and they came with the added bonuses of tracks from brandname producers, unreleased gems left over from Gibbs' Interscope tenure. On the Str8 Killa EP incredibly, Gibbs' firstever commercially available release Gibbs doesn't have to work with the possibility of the world forgetting about him, and he also doesn't have old Just Blaze tracks working in his favor.For better or worse, Gibbs is now a creature of the Internet, and the EP reflects that. Several tracks come from the buzzedabout Alabama production duo Block Beataz, and DJ Burn One, who writes the great BLVD St. blog, coproduces another. Upandcoming rappers like Jay Rock and Chip Tha Ripper guest, as does perpetual underdog champion Bun B. But none of these collabs have the ferocious chemistry of Gibbs' past teamups with the Atlanta newcomer Pill, and indeed the whole EP sounds more comfortable than the two mixtapes that preceded it. And it makes sense. Gibbs is mostly done proving himself. Now he's free to just rap.The tracks on Str8 Killa are less confessional than some of the heaviest tracks on his mixtapes; we don't hear anything more about how he slept in a drawer as a baby, or how he's afraid to bring a kid of his own into the world. Instead, he stays on familiar ground his impossibly tough hometown, the struggles he's had in the music business, fake rappers. And the most revealing moments come almost as asides: \"Paper ain't never promised, so product, I pushed that/ I just pray my baby brother don't follow my footsteps.\"But even without the heavy emotional resonance of those mixtapes, Str8 Killa works as a showcase for a ridiculously solid rapper. Gibbs knows his craft inside and out. Like T.I., Gibbs is best understood as a master of cadence, of throwing his voice into all sorts of twisty, tricky rhyme patterns without ever drawing attention to his own technical strengths. Sometimes on Str8 Killa, the beat will switch up just slightly, and some new musical element will send Gibbs into an explosively fractured new flow. Or he'll snap in and out of frantic doubletimes without giving himself enough time to breathe. It's tough to talk about Gibbs' rapping without lapsing into the sort of breathless technical praise that guitar magazines use when they talk about Eddie Van Halen or something, but not too many people can rap the way Gibbs can. "}