{"label":" Paper Bag","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15551/homepage_large.479fe3e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"CFCF","title":"Drifts","text":" Michael Silver (aka CFCF) has usually been on the giving end of remixes. Even after the release of his debut LP, Continent, there are more remix credits (he's recently treated noteworthy tracks from Kingdom and Taken By Trees) to the CFCF name than original pieces, which is kind of a shame: Despite being both skillful and prolific with other people's music, Silver's own creations are usually much more interesting. So it's nice to have Drifts, a digitalonly EP of reworkings from Continent, all helmed by fellow Canadians.The most notable contributors are Junior Boys, who kick off the EP with a groovemagnified take on \"Big Love\". The changes are few and purely cosmetic: Though very little of the duo's personality comes through here (save for that deep, hooky bassline), their sparse, movementminded approach hits some funkswollen sweet spots that go largely overlooked on the remainder of the EP. It easily trumps Mathemagic's take on the same track, which, to its credit, makes the hazier approach look almost equally sensible. The only problem is that, on a record that clearly favors space over movement, the Junior Boys' effort not only sticks out but feels defiantly boisterous amidst the more pointedly patient exercises.The only other real contender in this respect comes from the rising house duo Azari & III, whose excellent \"Reckless (With Your Love)\" has recently turned heads. And despite the fact that German producer Tensnake's remix of \"Reckless\" might be lapping up all the attention these days, the  pair show that they too know how this remix thing should be done. Simple, clean, and boasting a high replay value, Azari & III locate the sensuality in \"Come Closer\". The original version of \"Come Closer\" went against that grain most of the track's sleekness was obscured by a clunky chopandpaste rhythm. Here, Azari & III wring every last drop of sweat from the original;it's a welcome burst of hedonism on an EP that mostly favors headier pursuits.So, yeah, the majority of Drifts is notably clubunfriendly, with most of the focus being applied to atmosphere. Nugazers Memoryhouse's \"Letters Home\" is reliably blissful, a pastelbathed newage concoction that recalls \"In Your Eyes\"era Peter Gabriel. Unfortunately the remaining remixes sort of fog together, as the careful pacing and attention to detail begin to feel directionless and a little boring, especially when propped up against the fun, big stuff. Drifts could've used a little more of that or, you know, a new CFCF jam. "}