{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15566/homepage_large.d60c631a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Deastro","title":"Mind Altar EP","text":" Deastro's Randolph Chabot is just barely of legal drinking age, but he already has seven releases to his name. Sometimes Chabot's synthheavy electropop project has a full band, sometimes it's just him alone. His latest, Mind Altar, was originally an eightsong cassette offered for download on Deastro's blog; here on this digitalonly release, it's been fortified with three bonus tracks from another one of Chabot's blogonly EPs, Orange Swimmer Red Summer. Though Chabot insists that Mind Altar isn't \"the new face of Deastro,\" something has changed since Moondagger, last year's fullband LP. Where Moondagger was a noapologies effort to draw Deastro's aesthetic out of the bedroom, Deastro now seems intent on working in the smaller, more intimate space occupied by an everexpanding crop of chillwave acts.Mind Altar is covered in a dank lofi buzz, a familiar production technique that adds a pinch of mystery to an otherwise tuneful batch of electropop songs. By throwing heavy delay on his vocals and employing a number of dreamy, nostalgic touches, Chabot finds himself in the company of acts like Toro Y Moi. But as potentially derivative as this might sound, the clever beats and windswept lushness help save Deastro from looking like the next guy to tumble down some trendy rabbit hole.The songs vary in slight but interesting ways, indulging in spacedout, ambient collisions one moment (\"The Concept of Land Ownership\") and laying down propulsive, hallucinogenic hookdriven material the next (\"Mind Altar\", \"Get Frostied\"). Held over from Moondagger is Chabot's growing affinity for the sound of live instrumentation, like the maddening Motor City bass line on \"Pastor Kid Redux Edition\" or the percussion on \"Get Frostied\". Sometimes, Chabot does get a bit carried away with it all, overstuffing these songs with too many sounds and ideas that it's hard to not feel a little confused. But maybe confusion is the idea, like on the cassetteclosing \"World of Shadow\", where everything from hyperactive acoustic guitar strums, circling electronic plinks, and seagull squawks all collide with a dizzy satisfaction. When the ideas are flowing, Chabot's maximalist compulsions are justified. "}