{"label":" Tri Angle","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15565/homepage_large.4cf8efd2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Various","title":"Let Me Shine for You","text":" Sometime between Mean Girls and the point when her life began to spiral so publicly out of control, Lindsay Lohan recorded a few pop records. They weren't good, necessarily the sort of spitshined radio rock and dancepop expected from an actresscumsinger but cute enough in their own way. The albums sold well, but at this point she was still a valuable Hollywood commodity and people still bought records. Not long after, as we all know, shit started to go bad for Lohan. Substance abuse, an exploitative family, freaking Herbie: Fully Loaded they all took their toll on her, and now homegirl's in jail.This alltoocommon Hollywood tale is the subject matter for Let Me Shine for You, a strange little mixtape from the ascendant outrédance imprint Tri Angle. The basic idea is that Tri Angle artists and friends of the label, who share a dark and twisted take on pop music, deconstruct Lohan's tracks and build new, eerie songs out of their pieces. Sounds like a potential disaster, but it actually works. These producers like the sampleminded oOoOO and beatsmearing Stalker thrive in a cutandpaste style, and thematically the notion of a fallen starlet, tragic yet trashy, pretty much fits their aesthetic perfectly.For the most part, these tracks sound nothing like Lohan's. Sometimes an artist will hang her vocals in the background as a kind of ghostly presence, but usually the originals are mutilated beyond recognition. Screwed, chopped, sped up or slowed to a crawl, and often fleshed out with new instrumentation. Warp's Babe Rainbow turns \"Stuck\", a pretty basic dancepop number, into lurching triphop; newcomer Autre Ne Veut runs with the club feel of \"Bossy\" but makes it sound like something fit for a bondage party. The tracks all share a threatening and somber vibe, but there's a lot of stylistic diversity: Laurel Halo's contribution skews dubstep, while Oneohtrix Point Never plays with noise and drone.This variety is one of the nice things about the album and part of what makes Tri Angle such a promising label. These are all ostensibly \"witchhouse\" tracks, but that they each sound so different makes a strong case against the idea of the label as a onetrick pony. But as an individual release, Let Me Shine for You is simply a really cool experiment in how leftfield musicians interpret relatively bland radio music. That it's Lindsay Lohan's music just provides another level of intrigue. The revamps are so foreboding and so much about decay that they do on some level feel like a suitable soundtrack for her decline. You just wouldn't expect celebrity downfall to sound so good. "}