{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15568/homepage_large.4f8c579f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Four Tet","title":"Angel Echoes Remix","text":" This isn't a new Four Tet studio album. The digital release of \"Angel Echoes\", the latest single from Four Tet's There Is Love in You, includes \"Angel Echoes\" remixes by Caribou and Jon Hopkins and bundles them together with previously released, vinylonly remixes of \"Love Cry\" and \"Sing\". The contributors include some of the most interesting names in dubstep and bass music  Joy Orbison, Roska, Floating Points, Mosca, Hardhouse Banton but there are still only three tracks of source material here. Even the sequencing simply bundles the material in batches, although album flow becomes less important in the ripandburn era. Commissioned to reflect Four Tet's interests as a club DJ, the tracks are perfect playlist fodder, but the collection isn't something you're likely to listen to front to back.That said, it's high time that many of these reworks became widely available. Joy Orbison's remix of \"Love Cry\" is nearly as good as his own \"Hyph Mngo\" and possibly even better than his other singles. Somehow, he's managed to convert the rickety disco of the original into something fleet and flickering. Giving Orbison those vocals to work with must have been like offering catnip to a kitten, and he does exactly what you'd expect, looping them into short, insistent bursts. Rearranging the track's core elements according to his own signature, he turns the track into an example of dubstep at its lushest, its lunging, halftime cadence and whipcrack syncopations sounding more urgent than the original.Three mixes come from the fertile, hardtodefine terrain of the UK funky scene. Roska makes his muscular, sidewinding bass line the star of his \"Love Cry\" remix, using tuned percussion and a DJ Mujavalike synth lead to sketch out the harmonic outlines of the track. Only scraps of the original vocal remain, and they're so abstracted that you might not even recognize them if you heard the record out of context. The track's clean lines and percussive clarity make for an exciting contrast to Four Tet's deliberately swampy aesthetic. Hardhouse Banton, another UK funky producer, offers something more like an edit: His remix of \"Sing\" preserves the structure of the original, content to strengthen the groove with rolling, shuffling percussion (including funky's telltale loping toms, echoes of reggaeton). It's a subtle update, but listen back to the original, also included here, and you'll realize how much force he's given it. Mosca, affiliated with the UK's Night Slugs crew, clearly had a similar idea for his take on \"Sing\", which thrums with grinding, swinging percussion; what's interesting here is to see how Mosca translates Four Tet's swirled and swollen aesthetic to more forceful dancefloor standards, with whitehot hihats and syncopated chord stabs lending lean muscle.\"Angel Echoes\", reprised from the album, is all harps and chimes and swooping vocals, quintessentially Four Tet. Caribou, Four Tet's friend and musical peer, adds techno intensity (including triplet pulses inspired by James Holden, a peer of both musicians), but the soaring vocals feel slightly out of place too obvious a way of gaining lift, when the chugging momentum beneath would have sufficed. Jon Hopkins, a producer who has worked with Brian Eno and Coldplay, focuses on the musicbox intimacy of \"Angel Echoes\", using electric bass and smeary layers of reverb to add depth and heft. It's lovely, but its tempo feels slightly staid in comparison to other tracks on the album.Four Tet's \"Sing\" also returns from the album, but in an extended version that draws out the sevenminute track to nearly 11. The essential feeling of the track is the same, but it benefits from the added room to move, stretching out the cooing vocals (echoes of Björk) over rattling drum breaks and emphasizing a long, graceful arc. London's Floating Points, one of the most exciting producers to emerge in the past year or so, steps up to the challenge with a 14minute remix of the track. It begins with a long, lazy intro of sunrise Rhodes and birdsong oscillators before exploding into a great, shuddering mass of synthesizers, voice, and, somewhere in there, a faint glimmer of percussion. It's hard to know what to call it house, dubstep, a fusion of the two? but ultimately it doesn't matter; like Four Tet, Floating Points obviously knows that some of the most compelling dance music sounds nothing like the standardized formats that inspired it. One of the great things about Four Tet's recent music has been its increasing engagement with house and techno while, at the same time, refusing to play by club music's rules. To see Four Tet's idiosyncratic ideas keep filtering into club culture in such unpredictable ways is immensely rewarding. "}