{"label":" Now Again","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15574/homepage_large.f6fe3f6b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Seu Jorge & Almaz","title":"Seu Jorge & Almaz","text":" When Seu Jorge released his The Life Aquatic tiein album of David Bowie covers, the novelty of hearing those familiar rock songs performed in Portuguese and acoustically wasn't the most transformative thing about it. It was the absolute mellowness of Jorge's voice that stood out: a thick, baritone murmur, robust and sleepy at the same time. His nonBrazilian audience is still most familiar with that record, despite the subsequent release of a fine album of originals, América Brasil O Disco, and earlier releases like Carolina (aka Samba Esporte Fino) and Cru, which gave him a sambafunk backdrop to let the dynamics of that voice get a bit livelier.Seu Jorge & Almaz arose out of a different filmic scenario: It started as a oneoff collaboration for a soundtrack, and Jorge figured the band was worth sticking with for an entire album's worth of cover songs. It has a radically different dynamic than the Bowie record, with a heavier backing band film score composer Antonio Pinto on bass; Nação Zumbi's Lucio Maia and Pupillo on guitar and drums respectively that operates with dubby reverb and burbly, sleepwalking funk rhythms derived from the mangue beat movement. But its emphasis on slow tempos and subtle percussion gives it a woozier, gloomier atmosphere than his preZissou work.This ethereal mood cuts both ways. When it works, it's appealingly laidback, and covers of Brazilian classics Noriel Vilela's \"Saudosa Bahia\" and Jorge Ben's \"Errare Humanum Est\" are captured with a warm affection. Maia's guitar tone is the most prominent sound on the album after Jorge's voice, and its delicate but resonant timbre sounds particularly rich bouncing off the vocals; the lead on their version of Baden Powell's \"Tempo de Amor\" has an especially liquid sway. But this style seems weirdly lackluster when they head  north of the equator. It's an odd, malfunctioning gimmick to hear Jorge's usually nuanced voice try to take on the deadpan lead of Kraftwerk's \"The Model\", and he sounds especially distracted and lethargic on sluggish versions of Roy Ayers' \"Everybody Loves the Sunshine\" and Michael Jackson's \"Rock With You\". On the latter, he doesn't even bother to sing the entire chorus, omitting the crucial phrasing of \"sunlight\" and dancing the listener into nowhere.After some of the album's more leisurely moments, it's a welcome jolt when Jorge and Almaz actually bring some energy to the table. The one Englishlanguage cover that works, a fiery runthrough of \"Girl You Move Me\" by L.A. funk obscurities Cane & Able, lets Jorge rise above a heavyheaded murmur into a smooth, often passionate classicsoul lead. And in a couple of the MPB covers namely Tim Maia's \"Cristina\" and Tribo Massáhi's \"Pai Joao\" things really come alive, Isleyesque guitars and bottomheavy backbeats pairing up with performances where Jorge flatout belts. This is the Seu Jorge that's a joy to listen to, a singer whose voice can swoop as well as it floats. People can focus all they want on the onedimensional novelty of a wellknown pop hit drowsily rendered into molasses, but stopping where the unfamiliarity begins means you miss what Jorge really has to offer. "}