{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1439/homepage_large.1a2b509c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Chocolate Genius","title":"Godmusic","text":" According to the Bible, God isn't fond of music that isn't about Him in some way. For centuries, Christian mortals were more than happy to indulge His sensibilities, producing only music that was for or about God, and designed entirely to win His favor. If you were a musician back in 1503, it was almost certain that you worked for the church, writing polyphonic masses and putting melodies to psalms. There was no music but God Music. But, beginning in the Renaissance, newly educated people began to tire of God this and God that. The wealthy bourgeois class and selfimportant royalty began to want music for the sole purpose of entertainment, and paid handsomely to have it composed. Next thing you knew, musicians were developing theories of harmony and Monteverdi was writing operas based on old folk tales. A few Steven Fosters and a couple Oscar Wildes later, we had the concept of pop entertainment for its own sake, served direct to the masses. Given the tendency toward opportunism and exploitation of the pop world, it seems that there's little room left for God Music today, and when someone tries to make some these days you get stuff like Creed, the Newsboys and DC Talk. Still, God Music seeps out of the woodwork in ways you might not expect in this modern age, be it in the devotionals sung in Baptist churches or the less obvious songs of Marc Anthony Thompson. Thompson has quite the rapport going with God, though the only altar he seems to kneel before is the porcelain one. And, man, does he kneel there often. Thompson's second album as Chocolate Genius (his fourth overall) finds him up to the old tricks that made his past efforts so engrossing getting drunk, feeling hung over, and going mano รก mano with God, questioning, accusing, and philosophizing. Before launching into a dissonant guitar solo in \"The Eyes of the Lord,\" Thompson sings, \"There's no peace/ In the name of the Lord/ If I feel high/ He is there to remind me/ That I can't get up/ There is no joy/ In the eyes of the Lord,\" in a tired, gravelscraped baritone over a smoky R&B; backdrop. And there are plenty more drunken epiphanies where that came from. Thompson's last effort, the phenomenal Black Music, found transcendence in his unflattering selfportraits, and his bleak confessional style is still in full effect. The only problem is that the songs aren't as good as they were the last time around. There's nothing here as stunning as \"My Mom\" or \"Hangover Nine,\" moments that made Black Music so devastating. Instead, he spreads his gutter poetry across a bed of lowkey grooves, odd synths and shifting textures. Though this approach provides for some wonderful moments, it ultimately fails in allowing each song to exist in its own space as a fully developed piece.Godmusic opens with a bizarre, seemingly drunken quasioperatic piece called \"Perfidia\" before quickly moving on to the first actual song, \"For One More Look at You.\" \"For One More Look at You\" begins so subtly you might not even notice that it's started, and the whole record continues from there, with the continuous mix providing a lot of those nagging \"is this a new song?\" moments that send you reaching for the tracklist. Certain tracks do manage to stand out, though. \"Love,\" with its lilting female backing vocals and catchy hook could easily be a single, leaning heavily on modern R&B; for its inspiration. The band, rounded out with guys like Chris Wood, Abe Laboriel Jr., and Marc Ribot, is expertly subdued, allowing Thompson to build tension before letting it out in the chorus. \"Bossman Piss (In My Lemonade)\" is similarly restrained, quietly building to an effervescent chorus full of close harmonies, and then simmering back down for subsequent verses, where Thompson delivers lines like, \"A hole is just a hole/ Unless you've got a shovel and you're bored.\" The instrumental title track brings things to a crashing close with wailing harmonica and martial rhythms, as all sorts of agitated guitars and synths buzz underneath. I think God might like this if He got his hands on it, regardless of whether or not it's about Him. I mean, even omnipotent beings have to rock out now and then. Elsewhere, there are nice moments, like the pretty woodwind arrangement on \"Infidel Blues,\" which stand out, but the songs largely slip by, lost in the toosubtle production. The album as a whole feels cohesive and works well as a single piece, but there's not a whole lot to draw you in and make you want to stay there. On Black Music, Thompson was able to create a world in your head through description and inflection, but here he sits you in a musical environment that doesn't suggest much in the way of imagery. If anything, music dealing with God is likely to become ever rarer in the future, and it's nice to have a guy around like Thompson who isn't afraid to vent his feelings on the subject, all while providing darkly confessional odes to imbibing and watching your life fall apart. But in the end, it's best to wait until you've tried Black Music before you head for the Godmusic. "}