{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15572/homepage_large.4033e0a7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tal Rosenberg","artist":"Walter Gibbons","title":"Jungle Music: Mixed With Love: Essential & Unreleased Remixes 1976-1986","text":" Walter Gibbons was not your average DJ. While most DJs in the disco era were known for their flamboyance and attitude, Gibbons was the opposite: He was diminutive and shy, with his hair parted conservatively, and he sported a mustache that looked fake. He didn't look like a superstar of New York City's gay dance culture he looked like Lee Hazlewood's ugly doppelganger.Likewise, Galaxy 21, the nightclub that acted as Gibbons' primary residency in the mid1970s, was not like most other disco nightclubs it was more like a mini mall for libertines. It was located in two adjoining brownstones on 23rd Street, right near the Chelsea Hotel; the dance floor ran the length of both buildings, with Gibbons imparting his soulful, quirky music from a cramped booth in the back. There was also a restaurant above Gibbons' sweaty church, as well as a lounge, a cabaret in the penthouse, and an Xrated movie theater. You could eat dinner, take in a show, go dancing, get worked up to porn, and fuck all in one building.Gibbons' DJ style was noteworthy for its innovation and skill. He would put two copies of a record on the turntables and cut back and forth between them to extend the song live. He also had unusual musical taste, spinning fragments from something like The Wizard of Oz soundtrack alongside songs by Jermaine Jackson. He would often highlight the weird percussive breaks in these records and spin them over and over again before dropping back into the chorus, using remarkable precision to create tension and drama in a record where it was otherwise lacking (around the same time, Kool Herc was using the same techniques uptown in the Bronx to usher in hiphop).The first half of Jungle Music, Strut's doubledisc overview of the DJ/producer's remix work, mostly covers the period either during or directly following his tenure at Galaxy 21. Musically, the majority of disc one comprises straightforward disco music, from an early edit of Jakki's \"Sun...Sun...Sun...\" (a favorite of Larry Levan's at the Paradise Garage) to the touching, elegant \"It's a Better Than Good Time\" by Gladys Knight. But it's Gibbons' 1978 remix of Bettye LaVette's \"Doin' the Best That I Can\", which closes out the first disc, that gives the best indication of his talents and the more experimental direction he would take in the 80s. On this 11minute exploration of space and percussion, Gibbons adds echo to LaVette's voice, swaps hand drums in place of the original's drum kit, and highlights a glockenspiel part that shrouds the song in a shiny dew. It's an early introduction of dub to disco that conceals the song's center while allowing different sections to appear and disappear seemingly at random.Gibbons detested the rampant drug use and casual sex of the disco scene; by the 1980s, he had rediscovered Christianity. His sets took a turn for the pious, mixing gospel records with the disco and house songs of the day. At the same time, his remix work was becoming increasingly strange, venturing into the avantgarde. Much of this occurred as he struck up a friendship with Arthur Russell, who shared Gibbons' reticence, awkward physical appearance, and penchant for offkilter music.The second disc of this set is mostly an overview of Gibbons' screwiest remixing, opening with two magnificent unreleased Arthur Russell songs. The first is a version of \"See Through\", a squishy treatment of digital percussion and cello that's not too far from Russell's work on Calling Out of Context (Gibbons, in fact, collaborated with Russell on that album's \"Calling All Kids\"). Following that is a wild, wobbly examination of Dinosaur L's landmark \"Go Bang\", cutting in and out of the record the way Gibbons would in one of his sets. At certain times, it strips the song to just drums and a funk guitar; elsewhere it places the focus on the shakers. There are also unusual takes on electro (Strafe's \"Set It Off\") and hiphop (Stetsasonic's \"4 Ever My Beat\", which the group detested) before closing out with what is basically an update of the previous \"Set It Off\", showing where house's minimalism took a cue from aspects of Gibbons' remixes.This set includes superb liner notes by Love Saves the Day author Tim Lawrence, pared down from a longer article he wrote in 2003 for the Journal of Popular Music Studies. As Lawrence writes, Gibbons contracted HIV in the late 1980s, eventually succumbing to his disease in 1994. While most experts remember Gibbons' innovations, he was also frowned on by some dancers for his frequent playing of gospel music during the second half of his career. But Gibbons picked up on something that other disco mainstays might have missed, a quality that you can hear in the best tracks here: Disco at its best is about a community of people brought together in love and brotherhood, dancing and singing in an attempt to attain a higher sense of being in the form of salvation. "}