{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15583/homepage_large.b1dc91e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Serge Gainsbourg / Jane Birkin","title":"Jane Birkin et Serge Gainsbourg","text":" In 1967, during his torrid but brief affair with Brigitte Bardot, Serge Gainsbourg wrote a song for the two of them to sing together, titled \"Je T'Aime... Moi Non Plus\". It translates to \"I Love You... Neither Do I\". Confusing and ambiguous, it may simply have been an acknowledgement that their love couldn't last (she was still married to Gunter Sachs), but in any event, Bardot asked that he not release it, and it stayed hidden until it was finally compiled in 1986. In 1968, the 40yearold Gainsbourg met 22yearold English actress and model Jane Birkin on the set of the film Slogan. On their first night alone together, he took her on a tour of Paris clubs, including a transvestite bar, and fell asleep drunk. They were married within a year.Gainsbourg was a complicated guy, outwardly arrogant and lecherous, but also introverted and wildly intelligent. He understood pop music on a very basic, almost instinctual level, what worked and what didn't, and what could cause a sensation. He was an inveterate experimenter, exploring ways to marry the French chanson to jazz, African music, exotica, reggae, electronic music, funk, and British artrock (check his Cannabis soundtrack). And he must have known he had something sensational on his hands with \"Je T'aime\". He asked Birkin to record a new version with him, and she agreed, as she admits in the liner notes to Light in the Attic's new reissue of the Birkin/Gainsbourg album, only to keep him from singing it with someone else.That a little bit of jealousy motivated it makes the final recording just that much more delicious. Where the Bardot version was pillowy, her vocal almost too humid, Birkin brings to it a playfulness that balances Gainsbourg's debauched deadpan. If you haven't heard it, it goes basically like this: She says she loves him, he enigmatically responds \"neither do I,\" they matteroffactly describe the rhythm of sex, and she very convincingly simulates a climax. It's a stunning song in every respect, from the dreamy organ to the strings that simulate billowing bedsheets to Birkin's goosebumpy falsetto, and it caused quite a sensation indeed. Country after country lined up to ban it from the radio, but none could hold it back, and it sold like crazy all over Europe. In the UK it occupied two spots on the chart simultaneously after Fontana got cold feet and withdrew it, allowing another label to get in on the action.Thing is, we like to think of the 60s as a liberated time, when hippies convinced people that sex was okay, but it's not true. For most of the people still running things, this song was too much. Hell, I wonder what would happen if it came out today. Of course, \"Je T'aime\" was just one song from the album, and it gets the most ink for a reason, but there's plenty of other amazing stuff here, not least of which is \"69 Année Érotique\" (\"69 Erotic Year\"). Yeah, the title is a cheap pun, which is a classic Gainsbourg move, but the shuddering piano and snapping bass provide deep atmosphere for his singspeak, and while we're at it, Arthur Greenslade deserves major credit for the opulent and moody arrangements on this record. The combination of Gainsbourg and Greenslade is nearly as sharp as Gainsbourg's collaboration with JeanClaude Vannier two years later on his masterpiece, Histoire de Melody Nelson.Outside its two most iconic tracks, the record swerves all over the place, much like Gainsbourg's output on the whole, careening through oldfashioned orchestral chanson on \"Elisa\", blasting through a wild tack pianoled cancan that carries echoes of Gainsbourg's childhood as a Jew in Nazioccupied France in its morbid lyrics, and brooding hatefully under an oppressive orchestra on \"Manon\". Gainsbourg's love of controversy finds him singing his own version of \"Les Sucettes\", a song he'd written for a teenaged France Gall a few years earlier the double entendre centered around the pleasure of sucking a lollipop derailed Gall's career for a few years, but here's Gainsbourg, switching the song from first to third person and piling on the sleaze by blanketing the whole thing with wahwah guitar.For some listeners certainly for many who bought \"Je T'aime\" on 45 back in 1969 Gainsbourg's filthiness is a source of novelty, but that seems to miss the point, albeit rather harmlessly. To my mind, there are a few reasons his dirtyminded music has aged so well. The sound of it and the eclecticism of it certainly count, but more important is the casual authority with which he approached his subject matter, refusing to treat any of it, from sex to death, as taboo. \"Je T'aime\" is so convincing that rumors spread that the couple had actually recorded it in flagrante delicto, which naturally only made it more popular. Plenty of people had no doubt considered making such a song for mass consumption; Gainsbourg went ahead and did it. He and Birkin remained together, through a fair amount of tumult, until 1980 the one album that bore both their names on the spine still sounds fresh and surprising today. "}