{"label":" Friendly Fire / Pyramid","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15586/homepage_large.d96f9239.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Regina","title":"Puutarhatrilogia","text":" Quick, name some Finnish music that isn't metal. I'm tapped out after Sibelius and Vladislav Delay. I know more about Architecture in Helsinki than architecture in Helsinki, and the most modern Finnish book I've read is the Kalevala. So it was exciting to discover Regina's excellent U.S. debut, Puutarhatrilogia, a highconcept suite about the gardens of the human psyche that sounds to unFinnish ears like a batch of really swell love songs, charted ambitiously for guitars, miscellaneous synths, piano, percussion, and smooth yet sultry vocals.Regina's dancepop is larded with musical traditions from many different times and nations. On occasion the band might evoke Sally Shapiro, Stereolab, or Lykke Li, but it seems mostly circumstantial: They keep the song square in their sights as they shift freely from mode to mode. Their sound is cosmopolitan, multifarious, and given to sly pastiche in other words, thoroughly global. It benefits from expert and erudite playing without making a big deal about it. Singer Iisa Pykäri's Finnishlanguage vocals are all light and mist, but never drift aimlessly. She pushes syllables deep into the nooks and crannies of the thumping grooves.Her voice is as adaptable as the band backing her up, which makes dimetight turns through music history. The blurting synthesizers and breezy harmonies of \"Vapaus\" convey the droll impression of French yéyé; \"Tango Merellä\" is a dreamily unwinding take on tango; \"Sinun Tässä Salissa\" has the plucks and serpentine bends of Chinese folk music. But all of this diversity unfolds subtly on a backdrop of muted disco, in crisp yet marvelously fluid pivots. Suturing together sections of lobbyjazz, gospel, and light funk with chromatic piano scales is not something one would think advisable or even possible, until hearing \"Tapaa Minut Aamulla\".Regina stash all kinds of oblique references to techno in organic, jazzy bassandkeys odysseys. There are synth arpeggios mimicking flutes mimicking synth arpeggios, and detuned rock licks leaning against modernist piano patterns, and vocal loops pittering out urgent rhythms. All these neat tricks give you stuff to geek out over on headphones, but they never get in the way of the songs' emotional connections or melodic pep. It suggests a band a band that has deeply absorbed the tenets of modern dance, ancient folk, and highart styles alike, affording them all the same creative and emotional weight. "}