{"label":" Old Flame","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15585/homepage_large.ef174d27.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Dead Confederate","title":"Sugar","text":" Best known as a spirited live band, Dead Confederate have grown and developed the oldfashioned way: They toured with some veteran acts and took copious notes. After releasing their debut in 2008, the Athens group did a stint opening for Dinosaur Jr. and the Meat Puppets, an apprenticeship that, for better or for worse, is evident on their sophomore album, Sugar. The guitars sound both sharper and muddier, the rhythm section condensed into a thunderous union, the vocals of Hardy Morris and Brantley Senn more prominent. In general, they sound more purposeful than ever, thanks to producer John Agnello, who has worked with Dinosaur Jr., Sonic Youth, and the Hold Steady.With Agnello at the helm, Dead Confederate come across as more capable, more professional in other words, not very exciting. Their music sounds calculated, at times lifeless. Senn is more of a presence here, trading vocal and songwriting duties with Morris, and the push and pull between them creates intriguing transitions and expands their range. Opener \"In the Dark\" recalls fellow Athenians the Whigs in its relatively upbeat cadence, and its swirling organ leads seamlessly into \"Run From the Gun\", which contains the album's strongest hook and Morris' best vocal performance. His strangely textured, androgynous voice is one of the band's most distinctive sounds, especially now that he's not straining for maximum angst. He shows some restraint on \"Father Figure\", an otherwise aimless track that channels Gishera Smashing Pumpkins, and attempts some highflying acrobatics on \"By Design\", soaring into his falsetto on the chorus.Sugar is notable as much for what's missing as for what's been honed and emphasized. Morris no longer howls like Kurt Cobain, nor does he drawl so studiously. There are no 12 or sevenminute stoner epics either; instead, the songs are shorter, more compact, punchier. Almost missing: personality. Part of the appeal of the band's selfreleased EP and, to a lesser extent, its debut was their ragged energy, the naïve excitement of young southerners messing around with nonnative music, even if they were reaching beyond their grasp. Where once they got by on enthusiasm and sheer force of will, Sugar just sounds professional and deliberate. The songs no longer sound like Georgia, nor anywhere at all, and robbed of those roots and context, their music has no grounding, no subversive charm. Sugar is neither exciting nor egregious, neither good nor bad. It's just another rock record. "}