{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15587/homepage_large.c8881cea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Stornoway","title":"Beachcomber's Windowsill","text":" \"Zorbing\", Stornoway's breakthrough single, compares the rush of first love to an obscure sport invented in 1990s New Zealand. To \"zorb\" is to go rolling through open fields harnessed inside of a huge, transparent plastic ball. Zorbing was dreamed up by two New Zealand capitalists in 1994 and received extremesport classification in 1998. The Zorbing Appreciation Society Facebook group currently boasts 195 members. As far as love metaphors go, this is one of the least universal comparisons imaginable.Stornoway have a weakness for this type of cleverness, which probably can be partly explained by their background. The members bonded during their freshman year at Oxford University over a mutual love of Teenage Fanclub, and two of them singer/guitarist Brian Briggs and fellow guitarist/keyboard player Jon Ouin boast PhDs (in ornithology and Russian translation, respectively). The songs on Beachcomber's Windowsill are delicately arranged and mostly acoustic, and their pastoral lilt is unmistakable. The four core members sing in a bracingly pure roundrobin style that suggests formative years spent in youth choirs and glee clubs. In other words, Stornoway are exquisitely, even painfully, British. Even when they are South African, as is the case with the brothers Rob and Ollie Steadman, who provide drums and bass.Thankfully, Briggs proves a sharp study of the best of his acutely British forebears. \"Fuel Up\", a lovely meditation on the passage of time viewed through the lens of a series of road trips, is like Briggs' doctoral thesis on Ray Davies Melancholy. \"Zorbing\" and \"I Saw You Blink\" breeze by with the insouciance of Boy With the Arab Strapera Belle and Sebastian. Briggs' schoolboy tenor is reedy but powerful, and his lyrics are sweet about simple pleasures first girlfriends, drinking in a pub with high school friends, latenight phone calls to loved ones.Musically, they are a remarkably deft bunch, folding in a conservatory's worth of instruments barrelhouse piano, jazzy horncharts, banjo plonking, chamber strings and Celtic fiddles, spidery celesta into their fleet, coursing songs without bogging down the melodic line or sounding burdened by fussiness. Ollie Steadman plays his bass like a melody instrument, and Ouin's organ lines dance in and out of the periphery like a particularly animated supporting character you keep wishing would return. Rob Steadman's careful, sensitive drumming on \"On the Rocks\" helps anchor an otherwise formless tune from drifting into oblivion.Unfortunately, their acute Britishness cuts both ways, and Beachcomber's Windowsill grows wearying in prolonged doses. Their weightlessness is refreshing in threeminute bursts, but feels thin after forty. Briggs' love of clever rhetorical devices also grates over the course of the album; he spends nearly every song establishing a lyrical conceit in the opening lines and then enthusiastically unpacking it, until each song resembles an earnestly labored little creativewriting exercise. It would help if Briggs' emotions were as sophisticated as his vocabulary, but he mostly has a schoolboy's view of things: \"We've got to learn to love our neighbors before our neighbors scare the love out of us,\" he admonishes on \"Here Comes the Blackout..!\" Maybe a few years of touring will put some dirt and shadows on Briggs' frame; it would probably deepen his songs. But on Beachcomber's Windowsill, the boys in Stornoway come off as more clever than smart. "}