{"label":" Proximal","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15597/homepage_large.c0592a44.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Proximity One: Narrative of a City","text":" Thom Andersen's documentary Los Angeles Plays Itself is one of the most interesting works made about the malleable personality of a real place. With the help of dozens of famous movie clips, it depicts how the city of Los Angeles even the places that define its realworld identity wound up reduced through the lens of Hollywood to the shorthand of \"L.A.,\" a locale turned unreal through geographically impossible car chases, architecturally incongruent houses, and fakeurban setpieces built in the middle of the desert. The farther east you are, the likelier it is you've been more familiarized with a silverscreen abstract idea of L.A. than the whole, and it's not even necessarily the same abstract idea that other people might have. In subtitling itself Narrative of a City, Proximal Records aims to pull the same abstraction that the movies do, reshaping not a neighborhood or a landmark but a corner of the city's music scene in its own image.The catch is that they don't quite have their own image yet in fact, this isn't so much a label overview as it is a scene overview, and a farreaching one at that. This is an aesthetic that's emerged out of satellites that spin around Los Angeles' resonant Low End Theory diaspora, a base of instrumental hiphop that splits the difference between Oxnard weed breaks and London dubstep, then simmers it in a base of electroinflected gfunk. But that's already become an entrenched sound in the last couple of years, something people are starting to build off and mutate in their own disparate directions. And Proximity One pulls from such a wide array that it's hard to take away anything especially unified from it, which is a good sign if you're interested in a city's sonic diversity but a bit of a problem if you want an album you'll probably like more than half of.Still, it isn't a bad start. The narrative conceit helps corral what could have been a chaotic mess, dividing everything into four \"chapters\" with distinct focuses. Chapter One is the shortest, funkiest, and most accessible, a minimovement of breezy, borderline psychedelic lowrider bounce that peaks early with an unusually short but joyous DâmFunk track (\"A Day at the Carnival\"). Subsequent chapters dive further into successively wonkier, more abstract corners, filled with offbeat breaks and crackling surface noise and bursts of transplanted melodic fragments. It's wideranging, running the gamut from ambient postdubstep (Suzuki 8Ball's \"NineWing\") to blearyeyed Madlib homages (Juj's \"Creep\") to feints at Flying Lotus' transcendent meditations (Shlohmo's \"Glue Stick\"). But it feels like there isn't enough there there it mostly comes across like comfortfood reiterations of sounds that felt a bit more bracing in 2007. When scene vet Daedelus breaks through in the last chapter with the gorgeous, soulwarping dubstep cut \"Off Angles Edges\", it becomes that much more obvious how far some of these other artists' styles have to go.Not that they won't get there eventually. In fact, Proximal cofounder Sahy Uhns has already honed his technique to the point where he can take a simpleenough electrofunk rhythm, like he does in \"Fire Music\", and create something arresting just by piling on some crumbling wobble and decaying, stammering strings. There's also an appealing unpredictability to some of the other core label members' contributions, like BearClaw's icy, synaptic \"Robotrimpin\" and Lawrence Grey's Morsecode shufflebeat concoction \"Peaches for the Baby\". And it already sounds miles ahead of the entrylevel electro featured on their onlineonly Beat Stew collections that came out over the past year. Soon enough, Proximal's artists are going to depict L.A.'s sound in new, strange ways that wind up fabricating their own distinct version of reality. And if it won't be as complete a picture of the city as Proximity One is, it'll hopefully wind up building a narrative that's even more unique. "}