{"label":" Honest Jon's","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15592/homepage_large.0721d7af.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Shangaan Electro: New Wave Dance Music From South Africa","text":" Speed in music can be strange. Sometimes songs that are fast, technically speaking, don't sound fast in effect. Maybe they don't move, or don't prove fleet in any way. Whereas sometimes a slow song, with the right lean, can seem to take off, to zoom toward some distant horizon. But however the finer points play out, speed in music can be misleading and wondrously disorienting. Case in point is the compilation Shangaan Electro pretty much every track on it is ruthlessly, breathlessly, ridiculously fast. Yet the effect of so much speed is to make everything, paradoxically and more than a little psychedelically, slow down.Opening track \"Ngunyuta Dance\", by an act called BBC, makes for a good primer. After beginning with a weightless drop of chintzysounding keyboard tones and spritzy digital drums, it eventually has like 10 different patterns running through it, each at a manic pace. And something in the ceaselessness of them all makes the rhythm seem to just keep getting faster and faster as it transpires until a disembodying sense of overload washes over and starts, kind of magically, to pull everything apart.There's a lot to pull apart. Shangaan Electro collects 12 extremely dense and startling tracks of contemporary Shangaan dance music from Africa, specifically a few southern parts near Johannesburg and Mozambique. Evidently, the scene grew out of the mind of one man, named Nozinja, who works as a producer and sells music on his own, on DVDs and cassettes that fan out for use at insane dance parties. Footage from these village parties has gotten around via popular YouTube clips full of sick dance moves, which feature lots of heavily torqued wiggling and actions that look like something a man might do after just discovering a leech on his balls. (Another way to describe them, this a choice quote from the liner notes: \"When you see them dance you feel like they have got no bones.\")But part of what makes Shangaan Electro so interesting is the way it seems to laugh away the notion of context altogether, or at least rush right past it. Tracks in the Shangaan style tend to run around 180 beatsperminute, which is very fast, and the seizing effect of that is amplified by a focus on cheap highend sounds and a neartotal absence of bass, which there simply doesn't seem to be room for. Dance music in general is typically weighted and timestamped by bass. Shangaan electro floats in ethereal space instead, with lots of speed and no friction.In the most comprehensive terms, Shangaan electro is extremely weird. The sound sources enlisted in the mosaic tracks here range from what sounds like children'smovie traffic noise to solar flares from a plastic sun. There's beautiful human soul in the choral singing in \"Nwa Pfundla\" by Tshetsha Boys, but there's as much beautiful posthuman soul in the highly processed chipmunk vocals of their \"Uya Kwihi Ka Rose\". And pretty much throughout, there's a startling range of inventiveness with electronic sounds that are constantly clipped, looped, and folded in on themselves like in Mancingelani's \"Vana Vasesi\", which sounds like someone's spotty memory of Kraftwerk's \"Pocket Calculator\" run at triple speed.The liner notes, revealing but also helpfully incomplete, describe the previously very isolated Shangaan electro sound as \"hyperlocal music, all of it still considered traditional.\" But little here scans as \"traditional\" once you tumble in and fall under its swirling parts' spell. All the tracks compiled trace back to Nozinja's studio, where they were born between 2006 and 2009. But they've started to thrive in a zone of no context, which is where we are now. None of Shangaan Electro sounds quite like anything else we have at our disposal. Which, come to think of it, places it within a rich tradition indeed. "}