{"label":" Arcade Sound","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15590/homepage_large.d362e2d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Teen Daze","title":"Four More Years EP","text":" A year on from the summer of chillwave, and we've nailed down what makes this stripe of music \"beachy\": smeary synths, a danceable pace, hints of memorydulled nostalgia, invitingly vague lyrics about vaguer feelings, stuff about being a young, stuff about weed. It's not a formula, per se, but in some hands it occasionally feels like one. Bedroom producer Teen Daze has been floating tracks onto the Internet for the last year, matching up squiggly keyboard lines to mild thumps and all the requisite haze. He's got a track called \"Shine on You Crazy White Cap\" and another called \"Gone for the Summer\". There's a band Tumblr with a picture of a lake as its background. They are called Teen Daze. But unlike a lot of these bedroom blurmongers, Teen Daze seems in total control; his synths bleed into more brilliant colors, his languid pace more purposeful, his memory bank FDICinsured, his vagueness earned by the quality of his output.Daze's debut EP, Four More Years, whirls right into its title track, its big spluttery drums and many moving parts not far from Ernest Greene's work as Washed Out until a giant synth, part ELP, part Black Moth Super Rainbow, splits the song open down the middle. It feels brash, towering over the relatively lax backing track, but with so much socalled chillwave finds a gentle groove and sticks with it, but throughout Four More Years, Teen Daze find ways to slip these daringly germane little asides into the tunes, rescuing them from complacency. In the twinkly \"Gone For the Summer\", it's an electric piano line underpinning the tracks' inherent wooziness; in \"Around\", it's an unusually kinetic bit of synth programming that Delorean oughta consider stealing; in \"Saviour\", it's a somewhat illfitting vocal sample that repeats throughout the track, creating its own odd logic. Four More Years gleans its color from these bold choices, and Daze's tone palette appears about as rich as anybody's working in the genre.For as much slack memoryfuzz as he conjures, Teen Daze has an eye on the dancefloor, and quite a few of these tracks sound a bit like Erasure numbers left to melt in the sun. Teen Daze 's dance tracks are solid enough, if a bit interchangeable on their own; his tempos tend to knock similarly, with only the terse \"Around\" approaching something a sober person might move to. Still, this kinetic backbone proves a fine backdrop for Teen Daze 's immersive sonic explorations, and his dance tracks are every bit as intricately layered and inventively odd as the stuff at more patient tempos. Vocally, there's not a ton to grab hold of Teen Daze sings like the Tough Alliance guys but tends to bury his voice under a pile of synths. His hooks tend to be instrumental, not vocal. And there's a certain sameyness to the tempos here that wears a bit even in the record's halfhour runtime. But this is chillwave, and Teen Daze's version of same holds up to more scrutiny than most. In piling on the layers, sidestepping the narcotic lethargy that  and making sure to keep things in motion, Teen Daze is making last summer seem like more than just a memory. "}