{"label":" TBD","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15599/homepage_large.6e0b9952.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Autolux","title":"Transit Transit","text":" If what they say about patience is true, Autolux are amongst the most virtuous motherfuckers alive in Los Angeles. Two of its members served in Failure and Ednaswap respectively, some dudes who had a cup of coffee in the Buzz Bin with \"Stuck on You\" after the postNevermind boom and the band who wrote and first recorded Natalie Imbruglia's \"Torn\". Drummer Carla Azar had what was feared to be a careerending elbow injury in 2002 but a risky surgery and eight screws allowed her to get back on the skins. And despite having vocal cheerleaders ranging from Trent Reznor to Thom Yorke to TBone Burnett to the Coen Brothers, their sophomore bow Transit Transit follows up an album that came out six years ago. For some perspective, when Future Perfect was released in 2004, Silversun Pickups was best known in L.A. as a liquor store.Problem is, they ask the same patience of the listener on Transit Transit, without being really explicit about where the payoff lies. They occasionally dip into a bag of digital trickery in particular, the title track is a gripping introduction of unpredictable drum machine rattle with longing trumpet and vocal sighs akin to Radiohead's \"Videotape\".  For the most part, though, Autolux hone in on the same iterations of shoegaze as the Pickups. Yet despite the MBV worship, they also haven't forgotten about Swervedriver or Ride. Guitarist Greg Edwards forgoes fuzz tones almost completely, preferring gnarled, forceful chords that, combined with Azar's metallic clatter, can give Autolux some brawn. And yet, they're too hesitant to step on the gas and Transit Transit maintains a puzzling lack of urgency for an album so long in the works.You can get an occasional jolt from the steelgirder riffs of \"Census\" or \"Audience No. 2\", yet the tempo never gets past a slow boil. Hushed electro ballads like \"Highchair\" and \"The Bouncing Wall\" could conceivably work on a subliminal level, or they can just as easily be tuned out. The sparse selfproduction does them no favors either, stripped down and dry as a bone but lacking the warmth and intimacy of a live performance.It's a shame because you hate to use the term \"professional\" to describe a record's best asset. In a festival setting, I imagine Autolux's technical proficiency is vice tight and visceral, odd because a record like Transit Transit that (intentionally?) lacks strong hooks is usually considered one that benefits from close listens. But ultimately, it all comes back to the idea of patience in the face of a lack of memorable songs at some point, you have to demand to be heard and Transit Transit is the sound of three skilled musicians being all too careful not to step on each other's toes. "}