{"label":" Tri Angle","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15610/homepage_large.d7caf1df.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Balam Acab","title":"See Birds EP","text":" Your average techno song has between 120 and 150 beats per minute. Faster genres like drum'n'bass can go upwards of 180, and slower stuff like downtempo clocks in around 96 and 112. Tracks on Balam Acab's See Birds EP have a bpm of about 65. Put simply, this is sloooow music. Supersluggish pacing is one of a few reasons Balam Acab is associated with witch house, the gloompop genre pioneered by the band Salem. (Distorted hiphop, nods to drone and lofi, and eerie sonics are other common elements.) Even though he's tied to this scene, there are plenty of things that set Balam apart.Balam Acab is Alec Koone, a 19yearold college kid studying music education in upstate New York. Unlike some of his peers, he doesn't sing or play instruments on tracks, but builds them instead with samples collected from the Internet. He isolates and distorts bits of source material (say, vocal loops or beat fragments) and smears them together in new arrangements. The results are remarkably seamless. Take opener \"See Birds (Moon)\", where a scratchy drone meets heavy, blownout beats and a chorus of layered vocals. The way he puts them together, a new natural rhythm for these sounds emerges and it becomes hard to imagine them in any other order.Sturdy as these songs are, what's really impressive about Koone's music is how he's able to play with contrast and draw out emotion. Tension seems to be the key. On the easterntinged \"Regret Mistakes\", some very light, angelic verses pull the song upward, but when the beat comes in, all gritty and mangled, it yanks you right back to earth. And for digital music, it can be especially evocative. In \"Big Boy\", which incorporates 80s synths and watery Animal Collective textures, he makes a sampled kids' chorus feel weirdly somber. Next to big, threatening beats, the children sound too young to be at this adult party, and it gives a sense of innocence lost.The EP is only five tracks long, and around the fourth, Koone starts to nudge the sounds in a brighter direction. \"Dream Out\" and the closer, an alternate mix of the title track, are the two most optimisticsounding things here. Though they lack some of the earlier cuts' weight, they support the idea that Koone has more to him than spooky. Sparkly sounds populate these tracks, and the overall feeling is more dreampop than \"witch house.\" There's also a heavy dub influence that runs through the album (hear it in the subaquatic bass of \"Big Boy\"), and combined with his penchant for loops and samples, Koone reminds me at times of a young Noah Lennox. Can't say for now whether he has that kind of ability, but this is a heck of an impressive first step. "}