{"label":" Black Truffle","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15618/homepage_large.5f472c9b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Oren Ambarchi | Keiji Haino | Jim O'Rourke","title":"Tima Formosa","text":" Electroacoustic improvisation is an easy target for naysayers. Onstage, a handful of performers huddle over tables of gadgets, pushing buttons, twisting knobs, and adjusting sliders. They concentrate only on their corner, often not acknowledging the audience. Tempos are rare; melodies, perhaps more so. Not even a collaborative improvisation between Jim O'Rourke, Keiji Haino, and Oren Ambarchi three of the best sound artists in the world is likely to win many cynics. Tima Formosa is composed of three pieces that methodically step through webs of static, screams, feedback, percussion, and piano. One nondescript hum sometimes becomes the shared focus of each musician for several minutes. But with its generous strata of textures and its impeccably timed shifts, Tima Formosa highlights some of the best qualities of this form and, in doing so, rewards attention generously.Anything less would be a disappointment. These three improvisers boast discographies and résumés deeper and more diverse than most of their peers. On Tima Formosa, the personalities of each musician meld, creating an improvisation that's faithful to the group ideal. It's important to understand the players: Aside from his poprock forays and production work with Wilco, Sonic Youth, and Joanna Newsom, American expatriate and Tokyo resident O'Rourke has collaborated with what sometimes feels like everyone Christian Fennesz, KK Null, Carlos Giffoni, and Tony Conrad, to sample blindly. His solo electronic album, 2002's I'm Happy, and I'm Singing, and a 1,2,3,4, is a strangely human laptop essential.Haino is a psychedelic Japanese demigod with an assortment of releases more intense and exhausting than Kate Gosselin's grocery list. He's worked in jazz, noise, metal, improv, and rock and with guitar, voice, drums, drum machines, and theremins. His best records are radiant, limitless explorations of a unifying idea. Ambarchi, meanwhile, has recorded extensively with electroacoustic kingpins Günter Müller and Keith Rowe, and he's in two trios with Mayhem's Attila Csihar and members of Sunn O))). More important here, though, are his gorgeous solo albums. Like Tima Formosa, Ambarchi's overlooked solo works spot an interesting tone or timbre and explore its every surface. Such obsession is the anchor here.But this is neither a tidal drone record, where one sound consumes a side, nor a glitch record, where every sound serves simply as an introduction for the next. Rather, it's something in between, where the players cycle through themes at just the right pace, neither restless nor lazy. For its first dozen minutes, the opening take simply entitled \"Tima Formasa 1\" is a glow of anxiety, with bulbous bass tones, cyclical amplifier hum, and slicing cymbal passes folding nervously against one another. Haino finally turns it into hyperbole, routing his emasculated shriek through delay as the circuits click behind him.Between the 25minute opener and the 31minute closer, the trio offers the perfect midalbum respite. For four minutes, O'Rourke builds atonal piano clouds beneath Haino's meditative croon and above Ambarchi's monotonous squall. It distracts without absorbing, a stopgap that doesn't disrupt from the action so much as prepare for the next phase. That phase full of lacerated, metallike vocals, intoxicating tribal drumming, and long, lashing tones again builds, burns, and bleeds into silence. It rarely sags and never suggests that these players were as isolated as they might have appeared during the recording of this album, on stage in Japan in January 2009. "}