{"label":" Hot Cars Warp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15607/homepage_large.94c6afd3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Chris Corsano Band","title":"High and Dry","text":" Drummer Chris Corsano has played on some highprofile records (most notably Björk's Volta) and collaborated with wellknown musicians including Thurston Moore, Jim O'Rourke, and Jandek. More recently, he's worked with Richard Bishop and Ben Chasny in Rangda. But for his solo ventures, Corsano has been a bit more stealth, releasing two on handmade CDR's via his own Hot Cars Warp label, and a third in a small edition on the Belgian imprint Ultra Eczema. He's even more surreptitious on High and Dry, claiming the album was made with a guitarist and bassist who have \"requested anonymity for personal and professional reasons.\" Don't be fooled Corsano played everything here, overdubbing himself into a freewheeling garagerock trio.The results are as energetic and raucous as any Corsano fan would imagine, though not as thoroughly successful as False Flag, Rangda's exceptional debut. At its best, when thick bass lines and gristly guitar distortion wrap around drums in wavy patterns, High and Dry sounds like a freejazz take on mathtinted groups like Breadwinner or Shellac. For those accustomed to pristine studio creations, the music's slanted synchronicity might not sound like three people playing together in one room. But the songs' lopsided tilt feels real, avoiding the sterility of an exercise or the artificiality of precise editing. It's most convincing on opener \"Junior/Rattus\", a roller coaster of stop/start chops, and closer \"The Royalty Check Is in the Mail (Live at St. Joseph's Abbey)\", in which Corsano's looselimbed, stormbrewing drum style is unleashed on Sun City Girls' classic \"Esoterica of Abyssnia\".Both of those songs pack a lot of activity into their threeminute packages, and High and Dry falters only when Corsano lets his whirling mix grind on too long. The 13minute \"Lights Are on, Nobody's Home, House Is on Fire\" smolders in places, but mostly drifts aimlessly, stuck between narrow variety and noncommittal repetition. But that's followed by a string of surprises, including the rattling feedback of \"Doctor!\", the looping bleed of \"Susquehanna Hat Company\", and the metallic crunch of \"I Feel Like I Fell in a Hole/We Don't Need No Music, We Got Soul\". Such kaleidoscopic moves recall the wild diversity of Corsano's first solo album, 2006's The Young Cricketer, a minimasterpiece of tones and textures created primarily with percussion. High and Dry doesn't catch that album's spark, but you can hear the seeds of something special here seeds that will likely flower should Corsano ever revisit this armyofone format. "}