{"label":" Ostgut Ton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15615/homepage_large.52af4ed0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Ben Klock","title":"Berghain 04","text":" Ben Klock seems like a fairly physical dude. His music best described as a techno/house hybrid sounds like it's entered the world only after roiling around inside himself; just not his head so much as his torso and legs. One, his debut album, sounded welltrained, competitive. Klock's first commercial mix Berghain 04, composed for the Berlin nightclub at which he is a resident retains One's sense of physicality and restlessness.DJ mixes are made for dancing, or at least extended listening; by definition they should contain some sense of community. Berghain still feels claustrophobic and anxious. It's easy to hear Klock's clacking, percussive sounds and flat tones as impersonal or robotic, but Klock's efforts seem more nuanced. It's like he wants to rock bodies so long as those bodies remain somewhat leery of one another. That he has again achieved this effect with a host of his peers' tracks instead of his own compositions should confirm both his skill and his intentions.Berghain doesn't offer any discernible narratives or movements. Instead it is uniformly complex and machinated. Understanding its many small parts is daunting, but it functions seamlessly. Three tracks in, when Klock spins a Marcel Dettmann remix of the Junior Boys' \"Work\" (easily the most recognizable source material here), the lonely, echoing voice doesn't sound like it's calling to the dancelfoor but to Klock: \"So work it baby, work it,\" as Klock adds a small snare to the mix. Later, during Kevin Gorman's \"7am Stepper\", a voice repeats the names of two of Klock's touchstone city centers: \"Detroit/ Chicago/ Detroit/ Chicago.\" The content and placement of these phrases makes their purpose clear: Klock is psyching himself up.The breadth of sounds Klock weaves into his mix is sneakily diverse. Almost all of the selections fall on the techhouse/minimal axis (the big names here Levon Vincent, STL, Martyn are probably recognizable only to beatheads) but Klock wrings a surprising variety from them. Organheavy patches from Vincent and DVS1 echo actual rock'n'roll; Klock mixes his own \"Elfin Flight\" into Rolando's \"Junie\" to close the album with a touch of triphop. Points in between move from serene to industrial to funky.Berghain 04 falls short of being truly attractive. It's exclusive to a fault, both in Klock's walledin demeanor and in Berghain's reserved output. (Klock is the most famous of the Berghain series' four mixers; compare this to fellow nightclub Fabric's ongoing Fabric and FabricLive series, released so frequently that they may actually run out of DJs.) Berghain 04 is far more impressive than it is enjoyable, but it does confirm Klock as a committed visionary and probably the most palatable ambassador of the Berghain sound. It's a fine document for those of us who can't be there to leer in person. "}