{"label":" Frenchkiss","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15612/homepage_large.c8ef2b30.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Young Man","title":"Boy EP","text":" Many have taken to YouTube in the hopes that their parody or cover of the latest pop cultural zeitgeist will lead them to some sort of viral fame and perhaps a shoutout on \"The Soup\". Many are deservedly ignored. I can't speak for Colin Caulfield's intents, but his niche focus resulted in a humble, but honesttogod success story. He came to our attention due to a video of his covering Deerhunter's \"Rainwater Cassette Exchange\", a song written by a guy curious enough to find it and gregarious enough to post it on his blog, calling the version superior to his own. Caulfield's YouTube page also had videos covering Beach House, Bon Iver, and most recently, Ariel Pink, but it was presumably the originals that got the attention of the esteemed Frenchkiss label, who are now releasing his Boy EP under the name Young Man.While this style of comeup happens all the time in hiphop, Caulfield's rise can easily cause skepticism in his realm: the indie listenership still puts a lot of credence in \"you gotta pay your dues before you pay the rent,\" and is always uneasy with its tendency toward metacommentary. But even if you find no need for it to make some larger point about indie eating its own tail, the backstory is important because it gives you an extremely precise idea of what Boy EP sounds like acoustic guitars that give off the whiff of sunscreen, sunbaked loops, easygoing percussion, vocals blanched in reverb, and lyrics that take an \"aw shucks\" wistfulness to growing up in other words, singersongwriter circa 2010, the type that has no problem forgoing codified Proper Influences like Bowie and Eno or Elliott and Drake in favor of Panda and Bradford.We've endured quite a few bedroom acts in recent years that ape recent sonic palettes without adding any personal twist, and unfortunately, Boy doesn't go too far beyond \"hey, it's that indie YouTube guy.\" \"Five\" rolls off a pleasantly tropical chord progression with the EP's strongest melody, and the bricabrac percussion of \"Just a Growin'\" is fortunately miles away from the everpresent Dilla gravedigging. But the reverence to Young Man's source material can be stifling check the dubby whooping that punctuates \"Five\", the Panda Bearlike erratic voiceandguitar undulation of \"Home Alone\" (doesn't anyone want to sound like Avey Tare?), or the twinkling noise piece \"Bedtime\" that seems to exist on Boy because, well, you gotta have one of those.Let's be real: This is basically a demo tape. I understand the negative connotations behind that term, but it's actually in Caulfield's favor to view these as sketches rather than finished product. We've become inured to lofi recording, but unlike the methods used by Washed Out or Real Estate, the humble sound of Boy doesn't add a dimension that takes you further than Caulfield's own bedroom. The compositional Uturns of \"Home Alone\" and \"Just a Growin'\" could've worked in longer, more patient pieces, but in their compact dimensions, they simply sound contrived. Sadly, Boy is the first of a planned clutch of EPs from Young Man, so it's doubtful we'll ever hear these songs given the fleshedout sound they deserve. It's a good reminder that too often the Internet's insatiable need to discover new acts can be harmful to artists, but Boy proves the listener loses out just as often. "}