{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15627/homepage_large.66315398.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Fennesz Daniell Buck","title":"Knoxville","text":" Every few years, Austrian composer/producer Christian Fennesz releases a new solo album, and in the experimental electronic world, these are a pretty big deal. Since Fennesz's music itself is defined by weight and density he likes noisy climaxes, thickly textured electronic drones, and pieces that work on an orchestral scale it's understandable that these Big Solo Statements have come to define him as an artist. But those who follow his career more closely know that he's a steadily working musician, with a dependable stream of lowkey collaborative releases coming out every year. Knoxville, an improvised live set recorded in early 2009 with guitarist David Daniell and drummer Tony Buck, is a good example of how he keeps busy between solo albums.There are three names on this release, and maybe I'm putting undue focus on the first one. Daniell is an experimentally minded guitarist with a long career that includes solo albums on labels like Table of the Elements and work with fellow travelers like Loren Connors and Greg Davis. Here, his playing alternately lends the music a touch of psychedelia or a welcome earthiness. Buck's main gig is as a drummer for the Australian jazz trio the Necks, and in this setting his percussion is more about timbre than rhythm. While it's possible to listen to Knoxville and pick out the contributions of each (Fennesz is credited with guitar and electronics), this feels like a Fennesz gig, and the music has a romantic character that I tend to associate with his style. Not to mention that the overall sound palette, a mix of textures from shoegaze, industrial, and dark ambient sprinkled with shimmery layers that suggest refracted light, have Fennesz's fingerprints all over them.The tracks here range between six and just under 10 minutes, but they flow into each other, so Knoxville feels more like a continuous suite in four movements. Each section tends to begin in a quieter place and then takes its time building to crushing peaks. The sound, a mix of metallic scrapes, bits of feedback, strummed or soloing guitar, cymbal washes, and bassheavy drone, is always on the move, either ramping up or tumbling down the cathartic high point that exists somewhere along the way. Live improv can sometimes seem like a careful probing of musical ideas that gives a sense of players patiently offering up directions to each other and developing them collectively according to a logic not always apparent to the listener. But these pieces are about stirring feelings in a very direct and tangible way.The particulars of the feelings evoked here will vary from one set of ears to another, but above all, Knoxville offers an opportunity to lose yourself in a rush of highly detailed and overpowering sound. And the spaces it builds come across as beautiful and celebratory, no matter how crazy things get. So even when the tracks reach the intensity of \"Heat From Light\" about seven minutes in, where the feedback seems to swallow everything in the room and the crashing percussion tries vainly to match its visceral thrust, there's something life affirming and joyous about the noise. Since it's a 31minute live set from a trio with only one familiar name, Knoxville may well be slotted as an \"experimental\" release and filed away accordingly. But this is generous and emotionally charged music ready to meet you halfway. "}