{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15620/homepage_large.51096a84.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Isis / Melvins","title":"Melvins/Isis","text":" It's probably asking too much of two songs on a split release, no less to serve as a fitting epitaph for a 13year career. Of course this record was announced well before Isis called it quits in June; chances are the band didn't plan for this to be their final statement. Nonetheless, it's a bit of a dull adieu. Fans have undoubtedly pledged vital organs to snag a vinyl copy of this split. But for those who've never fully understood the slavering devotion Isis has enjoyed since 2002's Oceanic, these two songs won't convince you otherwise.I've never quite understood the acclaim myself. Oceanic was a nice breather at the time, a genuinely new hybrid (celestial sludge? ambient grunge?) after a few years of mathcore's complexity overload. Then Isis... kept going. (Admittedly with a few stylistic changeups along the way.) Their music has always felt too static to achieve any sort of real grandeur; you rarely hear the kind of dynamics they supposedly took from postrock.The same problem plagues \"Way Through Woven Branches\" and \"The Pliable Foe\" here. Isis seem to be building to something on these songs, but the climaxes are so restrained you can almost miss them if you're not paying close enough attention. The solo, the brief burst of black metalish drumming, and the growly vocals on \"Way Through\" all feel way too timid. \"Pliable Foe\" goes for the throat with a little more gusto, but as usual, I kept hoping Isis would finally let loose, offer a little chaos. After all, the best part of Mogwai's \"Like Herod\" isn't the clockwork precision; it's the freak out.As for the Melvins side of the split, it's also more of the same, but here I don't mean that in a disparaging way at all. One of the highlights of the 21st century has been seeing the band power its way out of its intermittently brilliant/sometimes embarrassing late90s wilderness period. (Bulldozer covers of Wipers' songs? Yes! Lame joke covers of Nirvana songs with Leif Garrett on vocals? Uh.) In the last halfdecade, Osborne and Crover Inc. have become a great, epic, neartraditionalist hard rock band. Remember those EPs that parodied the Kiss soloalbum sleeves? You always knew this was coming if the Melvins lasted long enough.Their two songs on this split, \"Pig House (Alt Version)\" and \"I'll Finish You Off (Alt Version)\", keep to the path carved out by their last three albums, especially 2008's poptight but heavy Nude With Boots, which revealed what a surprisingly nimble band Melvins can be no small feat in a twodrummer setup. The solos, especially on \"Pig House\", are anthemic, and the grooves, especially on \"I'll Finish You Off\", have the same punchy dynamics the Isis tunes lack.Their sound has been through so many shifts that \"unpredictable\" is kind of what they do now, but Melvins have hit a sweet spot in the last few years. (It's also kinda sorta just a little bit funny that the addition of young blood in 2006 in the form of Big Business' Jared Warren and Coady Willis has pushed Melvins even further into the realm of classic rock.) You can only hope they'll explore it for a little longer before the next, inevitable change. "}