{"label":" Rock Action","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15633/homepage_large.8965818c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Mogwai","title":"Special Moves","text":" Livealbum/concertfilm combos tend to mark certain memorable occasions: significant anniversaries, a special performance in a historic venue or a massive world tour with an obscenely expensive stage show. Mogwai's first live package a concert recording, Special Moves, and a DVD companion, Burning, with a different tracklist does not adhere to any of the above criteria. On the surface, it's simply a document of a band in their 14th year, touring behind their least remarkable album to date and as far as mythic locations go, the Music Hall of Williamsburg ain't exactly Pompeii. Judging by the wide array of physical/digital purchasing options available on the band's website, the real purpose of this release is to test out new ecommerce possibilities for the band.However, as Special Moves handily attests, Mogwai don't require additional context to create a sense of an Event for the veteran Scottish postrock quintet, even an ordinary night on the job is full of extraordinary moments. And with 2006's Mr. Beast and 2008's The Hawk Is Howling being greeted with a more mixed reception compared to the band's earthquaking early releases, Special Moves which pulls at least one track from all six Mogwai albums, but no more than two strategically positions the band's latterday material among the old warhorses to build a set list that gradually intensifies and explodes like the band's best instrumental epics. As such, Special Moves represents more than a recording of a specific 2009 concert series in Brooklyn it also functions as a compact but thorough career retrospective, and a convenient entry point for newcomers into the band's formidable discography.The stark, highcontrast blackandwhite images presented by directors Vincent Moon and Nathanaël Le Scouarnec in Burning may have been intended as a visual analogue for the extremes Mogwai often favor in their music, but the song selection here provides the band with ample opportunity to explore the space between serenity and cacophony. What's especially impressive about Special Moves is how Mogwai deploy their few vocal tracks to alternately heighten and diffuse tension. Following the ominous scene setters of Hawk's \"I'm Jim Morrison, I'm Dead\" and Mr. Beast's \"Friend of the Night\", the show and, particularly, the audience really come to life with Happy Songs for Happy People's \"Hunted By a Freak\", whose eerily obscured vocal melody is crucial to the song's gilded, mountainous majesty; by contrast, the band respectively positions two of their most affecting ballads (\"Cody\", \"2 Rights Make 1 Wrong\") next to two of their most sadistically savage (\"Mogwai Fear Satan\", \"Like Herod\"), as if to counter the band's reputation as devious, smartassed noisemakers. Mogwai also seem eager to challenge the notion that their best work is 10 years behind them: They close out Special Moves with a rampaging version of Mr. Beast's \"Glasgow MegaSnake\" that makes the preceding, suitably apocalyptic reading of \"Like Herod\" seem like a mere warmup exercise. "}