{"label":" CTE","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15631/homepage_large.6c656c79.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Young Jeezy","title":"1,000 Grams Vol. 1","text":" The main takeaway from 1,000 Grams Vol. 1 is that we're seeing a potential feud brewing between Young Jeezy and Rick Ross. For connoisseurs of rap beef, that's an intriguing one. Jeezy and Ross are really the only two relevant, popular Southern rappers who haven't had to do any jail time over the past few years, and they both work in an extremely similar style. They're evenly matched. On \"Death B4 Dishonor\", the first song on 1,000 Grams, Jeezy hijacks the Ross track \"B.M.F. (Blowin' Money Fast)\", probably the summer's biggest straightup banger, to throw a few thinly veiled barbs Ross' way.Jeezy's issue: Ross has reappropriated the initials of the drug gang Black Mafia Family and the name of Big Meech, their imprisoned leader, someone who Jeezy knows. So: \"How you blowin' money fast? You don't know the crew/ Are you part of the fam? Shit, I never knew.\" Ross has already responded in song, obliquely accusing Jeezy of, among other things, being from Cleveland some inside baseball shit that I don't even understand. Suffice to say: Potentially the biggest rap battle of 2010 is a squabble over who has more right to use the name of an incarcerated drug dealer. That's some deep silliness.It also means the main takeaway of 1,000 Grams, the second Jeezy mixtape this year, is not the music contained therein. The tracks here all feel like afterthoughts. That wasn't the case on the tape's predecessor, Trap or Die II. On that one, Jeezy exhibited some seriously canny beat selection, picking some of the most chaotically sinister synthblares of his entire career and showcasing his absolutely nuts new single \"Lose My Mind\". But on 1,000 Grams, Jeezy exclusively uses other people's beats, an oldschool mixtape technique that not too many people mess with anymore. The tape finds Jeezy rapping over most of the bigger tracks of the last year or so. Sometimes those tracks work well with his voice, and sometimes they don't. Lex Luger's beats for \"B.M.F.\" and Wacka Flocka Flame's \"Hard in the Paint\" sound like the synthSabbath stompers that Drumma Boy regularly makes for Jeezy, so he sounds right at home on them. But he's a mess on something like Timbaland and Drake's \"Say Something\", trying out an AutoTuned croon that the world really never needs to hear again.Worse, Jeezy is basically playing Weird Al on the tape, adapting those tracks' original cadences and changing just enough words that the songs are now about dealing drugs. Diddy's \"Hello Good Morning\", for instance, now has this chorus: \"Yayo! Good morning!\" Kanye West's \"Power\", obviously, becomes \"Powder\". Five or six years into his career, Jeezy is still talking the same drugtalk he always has, and there's very little charge left in it when he's not on one of those superhuman beats that he just inhabits like nobody else. On 2008's great album The Recession, he widened his scope enough to talk about the world around him with the same force and passion that he'd always brought to the drug stuff, and he came away with his best album. But how he's back to zeroperspective rants about moving kis like he's in the drivethru and Mickey D's or lovingly describing the way cocaine and baking soda harden up together. And artlessly jamming this stuff into other people's songs is not really working for him. It's just stupid.Of course, the forthcoming Jeezy album could still be great. Jeezy thrives on a very specific kind of track, one where the grain of his voice can sink in deep and he has enough room to deliver his trademark adlibs. And even this tape has some fun moments; I especially like how he pronounces \"monster\" like \"Munster\" so it'll rhyme with \"dumpster.\" But as haphazardly curated as this thing is, the whole thing seems to exist to support his opening salvo against Ross. And judging by the respective quality of both this tape and Ross' great new Teflon Don, Jeezy is heading for a big L here. "}