{"label":" ABKCO","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15638/homepage_large.b48df265.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Scott Pilgrim vs. the World OST","text":" Comic books about rock music are usually cringeinducing. The most common mistake cartoonists make is to oversell their fictional rockers' coolness, or to go heavy on \"hip\" references in the hope of either impressing or flattering their readers. Bryan Lee O'Malley's Scott Pilgrim series succeeds mainly because he was never overtly striving for coolness, and he clearly understood the lives of young indie rock musicians. Rock'n'roll was mainly just something his characters did for fun, and so that's what came through on his pages: Characters, fun. O'Malley's title character is the bassist in Sex Bobomb, a garage band that is not especially good, but could believably get by on charm and a wellcirculated mp3. The other bands in the series are familiar indie rock archetypes bent into fanciful, humorous abstractions The Clash at Demonhead are so arty and glamorous that they seem to exist primarily to make their audience feel insecure; Crash and the Boys are a noisepunk band blessed with inexplicable super powers.Getting this music right was one of the top challenges facing Edgar Wright in his film adaptation of O'Malley's comics. Putting comic book characters on the big screen is no big deal in the age of CGI, but making music that matched the imaginary sounds in reader's heads is a tall order. For the most part, Wright and his collaborators nailed it. Beck, who wrote all of the material for Sex Bobomb, captures the ramshackle energy implied in the comics. Sure, his songs may be slightly better than Sex Bobomb ought to be, but does anyone want to sit through inept music in a movie theater, much less at home while listening to a soundtrack? No way. Becksung versions of the Sex Bobomb tracks appear along with the movie band recordings, and the latter are much more enjoyable. These songs are meant to be scrappy, and though Beck loosens up a bit, he still sounds like a pro. Also, while \"Garbage Truck\" and \"Threshold\" may be great tunes for a fictional garage band, they're mediocre at best by Beck standards.As for the rest of the music from the comics, Metric turn out to be a very good standin for the Clash at Demonhead, capturing their icy, synthheavy bombast simply by being exactly who they are. Members of Broken Social Scene provide the music for Crash and the Boys, and though they hit their mark in terms of conveying the humor of frantic underoneminute numbers like \"I'm So Sad, So Very, Very Sad\" and \"We Hate You Please Die\", the results are a bit too straightforward for a group that ought to be far more weird and unreal. Nevertheless, Brendan Canning and his bandmates are forgiven for not actually possessing musical super powers. Frustratingly, not all of the music written for O'Malley's characters is included on this soundtrack compositions by Cornelius, Dan the Automator, and Nigel Godrich are all featured on the original score album. This isn't a huge inconvenience in the era of à la carte album tracks, but Dan the Automator's fauxBollywood number and the track featuring a musical duel between Beck's Sex Bobomb and Cornelius' Katayanagi Twins are amusing, and worthwhile for hardcore fans.The rest of the soundtrack is padded out with preexisting songs. The best of this lot is Plumtree's \"Scott Pilgrim\", the mid90s indiepop gem that gave O'Malley's hero his name. It's easy to understand why this song inspired O'Malley to create his ditzy, rocking, kung fu fighting protagonist it's deliriously catchy and wonderfully surreal. Other inclusions are memorable musical cues: Frank Black's \"I Heard Ramona Sing\" from when Scott meets his love interest, Ramona Flowers; the Rolling Stones' \"Under My Thumb\" from the part where it looks like Scott has been made totally irrelevant by his archnemesis. T. Rex's heartmelting \"Teenage Dream\" has roughly the same utility in the movie as Gary Wright's \"Dream Weaver\" does in Wayne's World. Previously released selections by the Bluetones, the Black Lips, Blood Red Shoes, Broken Social Scene, and Beachwood Sparks did Wright raid only the B section of his record collection? carry the general vibe of the movie and make for decent mix CD fodder, but aren't particularly essential.Even with some unnecessary and redundant inclusions, the soundtrack comes together very well as a whole. Whereas many modern film soundtracks are glorified compilation discs with a seemingly random track selection, the Scott Pilgrim vs. the World soundtrack is very thoughtful in its curation and stands as a very accurate interpretation of O'Malley's fictional world. "}