{"label":" Dutty Artz","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15639/homepage_large.77d3b56a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tal Rosenberg","artist":"CIAfrica","title":"DJ /rupture Presents CIAfrica","text":" A marked development in DJ /rupture's (aka Jace Clayton) music over the course of the last decade is an unfolding sense of relaxation. Clayton's earliest mixes (Gold Teeth Thief, Minesweeper Suite) were purposefully cluttered and frenetic; recent mixes such as Uproot and Solar Life Raft can be characterized by spatial openness, loping beats, and ethereal instrumentation. Some of Clayton's abrasive elements still exist, but they've been downscaled to reveal increasing levels of beauty, as unsettling as that beauty may be. If there's a perceptible trope of this Claytonmixed and curated selection of Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, rap group CIAfrica's music, it's that it recalls his earlier disposition towards highpressure, discordant sounds.While there's still openness in these beats (produced by Amadou aka Greendog), the elements that do exist are usually loud and atonal. Bass drums sound compressed, hitting the speakers at splintering frequency levels; the few nonpercussive components are sonar pings and bass buzzes and melting horns and car crashes and jet plane landings. A sonic connection is the digital grime of Dizzee Rascal's Boy in da Corner, with video game sound effects turned up to high volume and then reassembled into a composition of bleepy rhythms. But even then, there was more variation in the sound and tone of the music, whereas here the beats are less distinguishable. Manusa and Nasty, male and female respectively, are the star rappers of CIAfrica. But aside from that, the male MCs are difficult to parse from one another, and there isn't much to distinguish the voices themselves, which are often delivered in a shouty rapping that's closer to the spitting of an MC's crew than the voice of a distinctive MC. And the mixing of the voices is seemingly recorded at the same volume as the music itself and smeared into a big, bulbous blur.In an interview with this site from last summer, Clayton professed what he loved about CIAfrica's music: \"its [sic] great because people think like the Very Best, 'Oh African music, it's dancey, it's happy, nice melodies, very uplifting' and these guys are abrasive, synthetic, angular, nondancey lyricdriven music. It's fantastic.\" This is both CIAfrica's appeal as well as its misgiving. The turbulent minimalism of the music is indeed striking and a welcome alternative to most African music that comes stateside, which tends to be sunnier and breezier. But because of the Puritanism of the music's structure and sounds, there isn't much that separates individual songs from the mix's unified aesthetic, even though the aesthetic is one worth building on and paying attention to in the future. "}