{"label":" Brainfeeder","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15642/homepage_large.40960eae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Lorn","title":"Nothing Else","text":" On the one hand, the album title and barren LP cover are fitting. The hazy, headswimming sound popularized by Flying Lotus' Los Angeles has been done to death (to the point that FlyLo himself seems to have moved on), both in the L.A. beat scene and in bedrooms all over the world. Lorn's debut on FlyLo's Brainfeeder label, Nothing Else, doesn't carry a trace of that saturated signifier, and whether intentionally or not, its exclusion seems like a statement. Here's 30 minutes of beatdriven bangers with very few zeitgeistcapturing gimmicks to be found in other words, nothing else but the basics.Taking that title too literally would be to sell the album short, though, since there's quite a bit going on underneath the hood here. In particular, there's Lorn's beatprogramming style, which is elegant in design but brutal and harsh in practice. Thanks to pristine mastering by Warp techhead Clark, the tracks' rhythmic foundations hit with defined clarity and disorienting force even the puddledroplet beat on \"Bretagne\" smacks like hail on sheet metal. All this could sound antagonistic and alienating were it not for the melodic color that fills out the leftover negative space.Melody is ultimately what defines Nothing Else. While a good deal of his peers are focused simply on getting heads nodding and necks cracking, Lorn hones his ability toward making actual songs. The melodies are clean and linear, shot through with the bright, majorkey sound of acrossthepond Purple practitioners like Joker and Guido. The earcatchers flow like butter: the spiraling arpeggios of the \"Void\" cuts that act as the album's centerpiece, or the cybernetic sighs of \"Cherry Moon\". The simple touch of Rhodesish organ on the ironically titled \"Greatest Silence\" spells it out: This guy's having a lot of fun making this stuff, and you're supposed to have fun listening to it.Here's the catch, though: Nothing Else carries an undercurrent of unease, one that's apparent from the martial, lockstep beat of \"Army of Fear\". Lorn teases drama out of these tracks, richening the overall atmosphere; even the wheezing, rocketship synth line in \"Automaton\" sounds like some sort of nuclear warning call. With every listen, Nothing Else becomes many things, including a crowdpleasingly auspicious debut in a scene that could use more of exactly that. "}