{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15644/homepage_large.92a06df4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Total 11","text":" Over the past decade Kompakt seems to have mostly lost grips on what made their seminal Total series a musthear. Total 3 and 4 weren't great merely because they contained a lot of fantastic tracks; they were great because they offered a peek into a developing strain of electronic music and, as such, were of a piece. They often felt as much like albums as compilations. Changes were natural; Kompakt grew in esteem and minimal techno progressed from upstart to establishment. The Total series morphed from essential to... a consistently lukewarm and increasingly lengthy collection of label tracks. For years, this has been acceptable.Total 11 doesn't reverse this trend it's too long and offers less in the way of keepers than its immediate two or three predecessors but it does seem to signal a small but meaningful shift in the label's makeup. For the first time in the Total series, the Kompakt label seems explicitly in tune with the heritage of German electronic music, rather than obliquely so. To put it another way, Kompakt artists have always owed debts to Kraftwerk and Cluster how could they not? but they buried those affectations in a unique style. Total 11 is backwardlooking and variant in ways not often associated with the Cologne label.As recently as Total 9, Tim Finney said Kompakt's \"apparently endless stream of glistening techhouse chugathons shows no sign of flagging.\" Total 11 flags: DJ Koze (leading off for the second straight year; probably time to drop the \"underrated\" label) dives further into his own Wonkainspired hole; Mugwump all but ditch techno, favoring instead a looped slide guitar and loping backporch beat; It's a Fine Line's \"Eins Fine Grind\" set a rockabilly riff to... Hammond organs? There's very fewfrills pop music available too, in Popnoname's yearstoolate Postal Service impersonation and GusGus' Adaaided tropical lounge.It's not all good, but, at the risk of sounding condescending, it's really encouraging. Kompakt will always keep certain torches lit see tracks here by the Field, Jürgen Paape, and Michael Mayer but even some older acts seem like they're starting to realize the diminishing returns of pumping out minimal bangers. Superpitcher turns in the weirdestever Superpitcher track, \"Lapdance\", in which a croaking singer pines openly for a lap dance. During other tracks you could draw straight lines to Manuel Göttsching, Cluster, Tapesera Faust. The results feel less like a movement than a roster of artists who simultaneously but individually began tunneling inward.This doesn't make Total 11 a fantastic listen, necessarily; it is disjointed and wayward and 150 minutes long. It is perhaps the first entry in the Total series that doesn't even attempt to feel cohesive or representative of a larger scene, and the first truly lacking a standout track (though, if I must, I'll submit anything Ada is involved in for consideration). But collaboration and exploration seem more prevalent than they've been in years. At the beginning of its second decade, the Total series casts aside any notion of a return to form in favor of something more exciting but at least temporarily less fulfilling. "}