{"label":" Fonal","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15652/homepage_large.07758313.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Kemialliset Ystävät","title":"Ullakkopalo","text":" When I first heard about Finland's Kemialliset Ystävät the project of artist Jan Anderzén, who sometimes records with others and sometimes records solo the music was described as \"folk.\" Since I didn't have a good idea of what Finnish folk would sound like and knew nothing about the Fonal label, I came to Kemialliset Ystävät expecting to hear acoustic guitars and maybe some vocal harmonies with perhaps the addition of a few stringed instruments native to the region. What I got instead was a dense tapestry of electroacoustic sound, any individual aspect of which was difficult to source. There were samples and whirring electronics and weirdly tuned guitars and synthesizers and clomping percussion and processed vocals, all kind of swirled together into this woozy, colorful, undifferentiated jumble. But as impenetrable as the music was, it wasn't completely abstract, and there were melodies and careful arrangements popping out of the din that became more apparent the more closely I listened. After a while, the word \"folk\" began to seem just right: This had the feel of a music handed down through generations and recreated with the materials on hand. It's just that the materials on hand included things with circuit boards that you plugged into the wall.Ullakkopalo is the first Kemialliset Ystävät fulllength in three years, and the project essentially picks up where 2007's selftitled album left off. Which is to say that if someone casually interested in this band put the two albums on shuffle (maybe with some earlier Kemialliset Ystävät records thrown in), it would be tough to tell which track belonged to which release. Once again, there are voices, bleeps, acoustic strums, electric guitar leads, bits of chanting, some proper singing all put together just so, but arranged a way that stops well short of what most would define as a \"song.\" But while the surfacelevel similarity of Kemialliset Ystävät albums is a consideration for someone with a number of releases by the project who might want to spend money on one more (and the gorgeous packaging of Fonal releases is a good argument for owning a physical copy), it doesn't diminish the force of the music as a whole. The essential character of Kemialliset Ystävät is that it feels like it grew out of something that there were certain rules in place and parameters for how the music would be constructed, and what emerged was an album with its own bent logic. In this particular environment, it feels natural for differences to be subtle.Which is not to say that individual moments don't make themselves known upon repeated listens, to the point where you look forward to them. There are the haunted voices in \"Kivikasan Rauhassa\", which sound like a twisted version of a working song sung by cartoon dwarves marching into the mines. There's the toy keyboard melody of the swaying \"Ystävälliset Miekat\", which has the essence of both an early1990s video game and a ceremonial middle ages dirge. There's the wonderfully compact guitar lead that opens \"Älä Koske Lintuja\", which sounds familiarly late60s psych and alien simultaneously, a disorienting combo heightened by the sproingy percussion that follows.Ultimately this music seems deeply organic, using a specific dictionary definition of the word: \"having an organization similar in its complexity to that of living things.\" And because it sounds so connected to nature, it can be initially hard to absorb in its specifics. You could be standing in a field somewhere looking around and everything looks the same it's a field, like any other field. Or you could get down on your hands and knees and dig into the grass and notice the tiny things living there and how this blade is dead and that blade is halfeaten by something and so on. That's how Kemialliset Ystävät feels like something ready to be explored on whatever level feels right. "}