{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15653/homepage_large.42323fab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"We Are Scientists","title":"Barbara","text":" In the grand tradition of Fun Lovin' Criminals, We Are Scientists are a very American band who scored a minor hit in their homeland (in their case, 2006's \"Nobody Move, Nobody Get Hurt\") but will be remembered for having achieved a relatively large and mysterious popularity in the UK. WAS seem fully aware of this situation. As if releasing miniLP Live From Union Chapel London wasn't enough of a missive to their British fanbase, they went ahead and added the drummer from postStrokes shitshow Razorlight.That sort of selfknowledge and eagerness to please permeates their third album Barbara: You get the idea that they were scientists on their first two albums, tinkering with the DNA of bands who managed commercial radio play between the Strokes and the Killers and distilling it down to a formula. Now they're simply machines, cranking it out with an efficiency and anonymity that borders on eerie.\"We're only after one thing,\" moans singer Keith Murray over the strangely hollowedout arena rock of \"Pittsburgh\", and of course, that \"one thing\" Murray is talking about is a physical connection with another person; if an emotional one can be achieved, all the better. But it also serves as an unintentional metaphor for Murray's songwriting process, since even more than Brain Thrust Mastery or With Love and Squalor before it, Barbara is almost entirely about one thing and written almost entirely the same way. People in We Are Scientists songs get drunk, try to get laid, and know that the former can preclude the latter and serve as a remedy when these two goals don't align. And it's all so selfeffacing that they never come off as skeevy or misanthropic.This in and of itself isn't a bad thing, and often bands who can expertly work in this particularly unbrainy realm are often unfairly overlooked. The problem is that Murray's point of view wants for detail and definition: You hope he gets his rocks off, but you never really root for him because you don't really get to know him. The trajectory of every story is basically preordained, and it  would be tiresome even if Lit's \"My Own Worst Enemy\" wasn't hovering over Barbara as an example of how this shit's supposed to work.There's a serviceably bopping raveup called \"Foreign Kicks\", which could be viewed as a nod to the French Kicks even if it had a completely different title. But for the most part, you basically get a milder Hot Hot Heat. In the end, Barbara could've been made by a computer with a specific coding procedure: bass riffs align themselves into right angles, sharp synth lines blare, hihats sizzle, hooks dissolve on contact, and 2004 never ends.   "}