{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15662/homepage_large.275ecaee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Philip Selway","title":"Familial","text":" Whatever your opinion on the relative merits of Philip Selway's transmogrification into an acoustic guitarstrumming singersongwriter, it's tough to find an angle that doesn't at least give the guy points for bravery. Firstly, he's spent 25 years in the ruthlessly selfcorrecting Radiohead, a band who tend not to go more than three records without ritually wringing themselves inside out and emerging from the studio, eyes bulging and ears ringing, with some newly invented sonic paradigm. Secondly, said band also includes Thom Yorke, whose own noted songwriting abilities and singing voice have by now gifted him with an unreasonably long shadow. Thirdly, Selway's a frigging drummer. In an arena rock band. And when was the last time any drummer in any rock band (much less arguably the world's biggest) put his drumsticks down to write some Nick Drakesian songs about family?Make no mistake: This is a risk. A risk of exposure, credibility, mystique, whatever you want to call it, and Selway deserves credit for putting his newly elongated name on the line. The good(ish) news is that Familial is hardly an embarrassment. It's a modest, mannered record that prizes directness, simplicity and bittersweet sentiment above all, sometimes successfully, sometimes not. The highlights, such as they are, are frontloaded. With its delicately hooky chorus, lead single \"By Some Miracle\" is probably the most immediate thing here. Elsewhere, a cleverly syncopated vocal loop in \"Beyond Reason\" evokes some of Radiohead's sonic trickery, while \"All Eyes on You\" offers up an oddly naked account of Yorke's stage fright: \"So frail and small/ So scared you're terrified by all/ The eyes on you.\"The bad news is that Selway's material, tasteful and expertly played as it is, never fully transcends the novelty of who it's coming from. That two of the three highlights contain Radiohead callbacks should tell you something about the rest of the record. Even though Selway acquits himself as a capable an  d likable enough frontman, a lot of the material, especially on the second side, is ultimately just too bare, too slow, and too earnest to connect. For every one line that hits, there are two that shouldn't have made it out of first revisions. On \"A Simple Life\", the crowds pour out \"on a cold, cold night.\" On \"Patron Saint\", Selway's played for a fool by \"a web of lies and compromise.\" Such overtly earnest lyrics aren't helped by the unwavering politeness in his delivery, which, in being prettysounding but not much else, create a clear path for the clichés to land with a dull thud.Selway's famous for his restraint as a drummer, so it's not a stretch to suspect that his response to being the frontman for the first time has been to crank up his natural predilection toward politeness. Unfortunately, in this instance, it feels like a counterproductive strategy. Fans of shivery folk music with subtle plateaus will surely find things to like, but the rest of you might find yourselves wishing the \"black dog\" in Selway's basement had a bit more bite. At least he let it outside. "}