{"label":" Alpha Pup","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15669/homepage_large.48d77845.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Mr. Dibiase","title":"Machines Hate Me","text":" Shared nostalgia can be a poison. Sure, a lot of people remember the 1980s as a golden age, and nobody's gone broke trying to reinforce that impression to the under30s. But those of us who remember a different version of the 80s we're often sold, or who weren't there in the first place, might be tired of repetitive allusions to wellworn retropop memories. Whether or not you harbor any affection for the 80s, you've probably soaked most of it in by osmosis for years.In that case, Los Angeles producer Dibiase has his work cut out for him. The dude even named himself after Ted DiBiase, an 80s WWF star whose son is now reprising his Million Dollar Man gimmick clearly he's not shy when it comes to looking backwards. Machines Hate Me, the fulllength debut that follows up a scattered body of singles and remix work, evokes that era, using the tinny, chirping melodies of old Nintendo game soundtracks. The chiptune thing isn't as exotic as it used to be; by the time caffeinated indiepoppers Truckasauras and dubstep twiddler Quarta 330 put their spins on it a few years back, they had to put a lot of compositional uniqueness behind it to transcend the gimmick. Dibiase's own take is a bit simpler: he drizzles his NES burbles over recentcontemporary Project Blowed/[adult swim]bumper hiphop breaks that couldn't be more L.A. 2010 if you threw a Clayton Kershaw jersey on 'em. There's been no shortage of that lately, either.The overall effect is an odd collision of nostalgia and nowness, as though Flying Lotus were called in to create some alternate soundtrack to Excitebike and kind of phoned it in. The offkilter rhythms are a decentenough variation of the beatjostling boomclap mutations that sprung up across Cali somewhere between Madlib's first Beat Konducta release and FlyLo's Reset. But their workmanlike appeal, solid without being especially propulsive, is undercut by the obviousness of the getit? moments. Here's the fight music to Mike Tyson's PunchOut!! chopped up over a basic neogfunk beat (\"Clocked Out\"), here's that old cliché cartoon creepyghost theme all synthesized up (\"Phantom Power\"), here's a beat that sounds halfbuilt from sound effects from Super Mario Bros. (\"Renegade Slap\").Not every obvious moment leans on the old 8bit sounds; \"Price Is Righteous\" uses what sounds like a tandem Fender Rhodes and ARP Odyssey to riff off the theme to guess which game show. But the tracks that do feel doubly dated, not just redolent of the 80s from whence they came but the mid 00s where this rearview glance felt less rote. Still, it wouldn't be that big a deal if Dibiase hadn't exhibited moments where he downplays the gimmickry and ambushes you with something completely unanticipated. For all the Tyco nightglow atmosphere, the better tracks the billowy, flutemelting sleepwalk \"Three Way Mirrors\"; the haunted, crumbling soul of \"Lumberjack\" reveal a producer who has more on his agenda than just reinterpretive flashbacks. It's easy to sound like the 80s, but the moments where Dibiase sounds like he's of a time not yet fully experienced are what justifies the effort. "}