{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15667/homepage_large.8bd38be0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Arp","title":"The Soft Wave","text":" It's not like you're going to see Kevin Drumm hitting the Billboard Heatseekers charts or anything, but artists such as Oneohtrix Point Never, Emeralds, Sam Goldberg, Etienne Jaumet, and Gavin Russom have certainly done their part to give arpeggiated drone a higher profile in 2010. This is due mostly to the fact that the music being made is fairly melodic and often pretty but it's also disorienting and doesn't always provide the easiest listening experience. There's lots of blissedout stuff out there, but it's couched in enough static and noise to create a distance between mainstream listeners and the art itself.The Soft Wave, Alexis Georgopoulos' sophomore effort as Arp, serves to close that gap a little. Arp's 2007 debut, In Light, was a few years ahead of its time in embracing a fullon synthheavy arpeggio assault, and here he pushes things forward as well, with a record that's the polar opposite of In Light's smeared, nearpsychedelic sound: light and clean, with plenty of negative space. You don't have to find a \"way in\" to this music; its construction practically leaves a door open for you, with more than enough room to wander around once you're there.There's still a fair amount of oscillating drone and tranceinducing patterns here, but their components are more organic than before. While In Light leaned heavily on synthesizers, The Soft Wave noticeably uses more electric guitar and bass, which mixes with the structural void to create an almost threedimensional texture. Thickstringed patterns create reverberating foundations throughout, while guitar licks frequently dance lightly in the foreground. The resulting sound is simultaneously fleetfooted and humid, which lends the album a distinctly tropical vibe.With more conventional instrumentation comes more straightforward \"songs.\" Yes, The Soft Wave does open with \"Pastoral Symphony\", a nineminuteplus, twopart odyssey filled with jettisoning synth lines and skyward tones, but there's also \"From a Balcony Overlooking the Sea\", a stately piece featuring Georgopoulos' warm vocals that recall the more ethereal moments of Brian Eno's \"vocal\" albums.There's a catch, though: just as Oneohtrix Point Never opened this year's stunning Returnal with the earshattering, Burning Star Corerecalling noise of \"Nil Admirari\", Georgopoulos closes this record out with the uneasy rustling static of \"Silver Clouds\". The effect is something of a sonic swarm, akin to black ink leaking over parchment and spreading quickly over its surface. Overwhelming, yes, but beauty needs to be tempered with noise sometimes. "}