{"label":" Analog Africa","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15663/homepage_large.8cd72071.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Afro-Beat Airways: West African Shock Waves, Ghana & Togo 1972-1978","text":" In 2008, Analog Africa owner Samy Ben Redjeb accidentally checked a bag with his passport in it before attempting to get on an Ethiopian Airlines flight to Luanda, Angola. The plane was delayed while they looked for his bag without any luck. The flight left without him, and once he got his passport back they weren't able to get him to Luanda for another few weeks. They did, however offer him some alternatives: would he like to go to Congo, Cameroon, Nigeria, or Ghana? He chose a flight to Accra, Ghana he had friends there who'd told him of a big stash of records he might be interested in. And that's how this compilation came about.Analog Africa was already in the process of digging heavily into the music scenes of Ghana's smaller neighbors, Benin and Togo, for a series of great comps. A meeting with Dick EssilfieBonzie, the owner of the longdefunct Essiebons Records, led Redjeb to a trove of old master tapes from the 1970s. The music on those tapes, most of which was originally recorded for PolyGram, comprises the bulk of this set, the latest in Redjeb's incredible run of Afrofunk retrospectives. Anyone who enjoyed Soundway's Ghana Soundz compilations from several years ago will love this as well, as it's filled with the distinctive funk sound of Ghana heavy on the bright Vox organ, colored by highlife guitars, and anchored by grooves that are heavier than just about anything else. The few tracks by Togolese artists included here fit right into the sound (the artists all absorbed the Ghana sound during stints there).There are a lot of ways to organize archival compilations. You can go the Numero route and try to tell the story of a label or a tightknit group of friends through music; you can focus on a particular style, year, or scene; you can cherrypick and make what amounts to a mixtape; or try to provide an overview for beginners. Analog Africa is really the only label I can think of that uses the travelogue as an organizing principle for these kinds of sets. Redjeb's adventure isn't just the catalyst for the compilation it's the backbone as well. Listening to it and checking the extensive book of notes that comes with it, you follow an arc of discovery that parallels Redjeb's own listening experience in Ghana. There's excitement in the way it's put together, and everyone he interviews for the booklet is happy to be talking about this music again.If you're already collecting Afrofunk comps, you'll probably know names like K. Frimpong, Ebo Taylor, and African Brothers Band. They and others here have all featured on other compilations, but this disc digs deep to bring us stuff we've never heard before. And if you're just getting into this music, pretty much everything will be revelatory. Taylor's two tracks under his own name here both have his signature big sound, underpinned by the knocking Afrobeat rhythm that he built into a trademark. It wasn't easy to have a massive sound like Taylor's in 70s Ghana. Successive military governments in the 60s had imposed curfews that made life difficult for musicians, breaking up a lot of bands and sending their members abroad the large horn sections of the big oldstyle highlife bands were the hardesthit, and as a result highlife in Ghana became more focused on the guitar. Taylor's big, pummeling horn fanfares are a thread tying his funkedup 70s output back to the society bands he got his start in.The ultimate Ghanaian guitar highlife band was undoubtedly the African Brothers, led by guitarist Nana Ampadu. Their \"Ngyegye No So\" borrows an Afrobeat backbeat (it's the insistent syncopated ticktockatick pattern played on the nontrap percussion) and tugs on it with a fractured bass line. After the psychedelic organ solo, Ampadu delivers an English monologue that goes like this: \"It is me they call Nana Ampadu, the music king. I be composer, I be singer, I be arranger, I be master guitarist\" the joke being that the song's title means \"Don't Brag\". Orchestre Abass, a Togolese band that relocated to Accra and later had a residency at Fela Kuti's Shrine in Lagos, Nigeria, picked up the choppy rhythms and immense organ sound of their adopted country, and they flash it brilliantly on \"Awula Bo Fee Ene\".One of the reasons these songs all sound so unified is that Ghana's music scene was small enough that many musicians knew each other, played with each other, and developed alongside one another or in competition. If there are more than a couple degrees of separation between any two musicians, I'd be shocked. They also shared a constant scramble for scarce resources, and it seems to have forged a rocksolid professionalism in the players that you can hear in the recordings. Dick EssilfieBonzie had established a few labels and the country's first vinyl pressing plant, and he brought in an engineer called E.B. Brown to run his studio Brown's depth of knowledge and skill gives these recordings an amazing presence and clarity that modern mastering has only made bolder. Here's hoping Samy BenRedjeb winds up on a few more flights he didn't intend to take. "}