{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15685/homepage_large.342587bd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Superpitcher","title":"Kilimanjaro","text":" Of the formative sounds most associated with the epochal electronicmusic label Kompakt, none has had as long a shelflife as the zonedout house of Superpitcher. Worthy competitors have crept up and either faded away (shuffling \"schaffel\" techno) or been assimilated so fully as to become part of the general dancemusic weather (Wolfgang Voigt's minimalism, Michael Mayer's precision trance). But Superpitcher nobody does what he does quite as well. Nobody even really tries. What he does has also proven very prescient, especially as we hear more and more slow, bleary, moody, spooky sounds from the haunted and/or wasted outer edges of genres like chillwave and witchhouse. Such is the style that Superpitcher has worked within since breaking out in 2001 with a single called \"Heroin\". And such is the style of his fine return to form, Kilimanjaro.It's been a few years since Superpitcher churned out his last essential material, having chosen instead to mess around in the studio and explore ideas of \"singing\" and playing \"instruments\" on a string of admirable but ultimately disappointing projects, most notably his Michael Mayercollaboration album Supermayer Save the World. None of his work was ever exactly bad, but none of the energy or joy evident in the making of it found a corollary in the energy or joy receptors of those of us who endeavored to listen to it. Worthy lesson for all aspiring musicmakers: Just because you can play a slide whistle doesn't mean you necessarily should.But there's a slide whistle early on Kilimanjaro, and it sounds great and not only great but integral, as if time spent playing slide whistle and sounding a little lame in the past paid off in the form of a sound now worth exploring even more down the line. Not to overstate the slide whistle, though. It's just one tool among many used in \"Voodoo\", a track that opens Kilimanjaro on a notably dubby note, with all kinds of sounds sensuous singing, falsetto yelps, ominous chimes, rattling trashcan taps spread across an incredibly deep soundfield and arranged in time with a sort of lilting quasireggae beat.There's a lot going on, but one of Superpitcher's strengths as a producer is the way he employs everything he does, big and small, in service of a consistently melancholy and often menacing mood. His drum tracks, like the ones in \"Country Boy\", are great examples of how subtle changes of timing and inflection can affect machine music as much as strings or piano. And the rhythms have a way of accentuating the weariness at the heart of Superpitcher's sound by falling invariably behind the beat, always a little slower and gloomier than they should like a slumpshouldered teenager clomping a few steps behind his mom at the mall while humming Cure songs in his head.The mood comes across explicitly in lyrics that center on loneliness and disconnection with a breathy simplicity. But the mood proves even more unmistakable in the music, whether loping at an almost Portisheadlike speed or amped up in the sultry, suggestive funk of \"Black Magic\" and the anthemic ravepiano torch song \"Joanna\". It's hard to imagine anyone not being moved in some divergent but certain way by those last two tracks in succession. And it's even harder to imagine Superpitcher being gone again for as long as he was. "}