{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15683/homepage_large.c0b82d8d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Torche","title":"Songs for Singles","text":" There should be more bands like Torche. The Miami trio sits near the top of the undergroundmetal heap, but they're also the rare undergroundmetal band happy to come off as regular dudes rather than medieval warriors or swamp monsters. They churn out fuzzrock bangers with mechanistic precision, never betraying any signs of pretension or mystique. Since the departure of guitarist Juan Montoya, they're an entirely shorthaired band, and frontman Steve Brooks sings in a beerbelly bellow, not an elemental rasp. The band take as many cues from ragged 1990s indie as they do from bongwaterdripping 70s crunchrock, and you can hear echos of Guided By Voices and Superchunk reverberating around in there. They never sacrifice melody for volume, or vice versa and somehow, that quality makes them exceptional.Two years ago, the band came out hard with Meanderthal, which the metal mag Decibel called their album of the year while admitting that it sometimes sounds like the Foo Fighters. On Songs for Singles, their new eightsong EP, there's nothing that leaves as deep an impression as some of the best Meanderthal moments. Instead there's an intense focus on brevity, as the first six songs stick as tightly as possible to a very basic formula, sort of like the Ramones did. These songs never get far beyond the twominute mark. The band plays with heads down, never taking time for solos or anything that registers as a chorus. If you're not paying much attention, the tracks bleed into one another and feel like one long rush of effectspedal rumble and chunky riffage.Nothing during these first few songs is all that memorable, but it's always impressive that they're able to work up such furious grooves in such confined spaces, hardly even altering the tempos. This is fun, assured heavy rock, and it gets the job done. But the last two tracks the ones where Torche give themselves room to stretch out are where Songs for Singles really takes off. \"Face the Wall\" and \"Out Again\" are still very much wheelhouse songs for this band, but they slow down their attack noticeably, letting space and dynamics creep  into the guitarstorm. \"Out Again\" is six minutes of relentless pounding, and the band spends its back half abandoning the songform stuff completely and just vamping hard. It sounds awesome.With that title, Songs for Singles practically announces itself as a stopgap release, a breather after the breakthrough. If it doesn't shake the earth the way Meanderthal did, it's not really supposed to. But the EP does show that this band remains in fine working condition, and another fullon album from these guys would be a welcome thing indeed. Until then, this will do just fine. "}