{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15676/homepage_large.394d5f9b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Playboy Tre","title":"The Last Call","text":" Before he found crossover success as a sort of emorap Flo Rida, B.o.B. was one of rap's freshest and most inventive young voices. And now that he's somehow figured out a way to sell out a nearimpossible feat in 2010 just about B.o.B.'s only remaining underground connection is his continued association with a much older and less famous rapper, the Atlanta mixtape monster Playboy Tre. Over the past couple of years, Tre has released two insanely strong mixtapes, Goodbye America and Liquor Store Mascot. Both tapes dealt frankly and realistically with a lifetime of disappointments and diminished expectations, then cut through all the wizened real talk with a serious dose of drunkfunnyasshole shittalk. These days, Tre works as B.o.B.'s hypeman. Last week, I saw him playing sideman as B.o.B. opened a titanic stadium show for JayZ and Eminem, and it was a kick to see a perpetual underdog like Tre getting to play a part, however small, in that whole circus. And Tre also anchored the one great moment from B.o.B.'s majorlabel debut, the rapforrap'ssake workout \"Bet I Bust\".So even if all the success isn't exactly his, Tre's new tape The Last Call finds him at least in a more successful context than his last two tapes. So it's heartening to see that Tre hasn't switched up his style at all in a misguided attempt to chase that B.o.B. money. He's still rasping hard truths over warm, heavy soulrap production, somehow getting great tracks from totalunknown producers. He's still making fun of the parts of the rap universe that don't make sense to him; a troika of skits skewer the living hell out of invasive mixtape DJs. And he's still rapping about how good it feels to still be rapping. Like the two mixtapes that preceded it, The Last Call is a cohesive and powerful piece of work, more of a fullon album than most actual albums.But now that Tre has found something resembling a stable career, the urgency level dips just a bit here. We get one filler track where Tre and Bay Area MC Mistah FAB shout out every important rapper they can think of from their respective regions. We get a few songs about the general importance of grinding, which rivals the concept of swag as the most overused song concept in all of rap. And on the mixtape's second half, Tre stops rapping about himself entirely for long stretches, preferring instead to stick to cautionary tales about young guys involved in dangerous business. Those tracks come with serious weight, with Tre bringing a sense of grownman wisdom and empathy to his stories, but they don't quite carry the electric charge of the tracks where Tre tells his own stories.But then, when we're talking about someone who brings Tre's level of gravity, any talk about his lack of urgency is very, very relative. So on \"All That My Life's About\", before associate Homebwoi talks about how happy he was that he didn't quit his day job after rapping on a Ying Yang Twins track, Tre gives us a detailed account of his struggles to come up in the record industry before leaving us with this: \"Mama called and said the house nearing foreclosure/ And I'm like, 'Who gives a fuck about the exposure?'\"This is music with something at stake, and it hits its apex on the sad reminisce \"Earline Son\", maybe the single greatest track Tre's ever made. Over a gorgeous sighingorgan beat, Tre talks about the same stuff that's served as grist for millions of rap songs Tre's history dealing drugs and getting shot, for instance. Except that Tre's not proud of his past; he's more embarrassed. Talking about getting shot at 16, Tre mentions that his enemy was too scared to shoot him, that he had to get his stepdad to do it. And then Tre remembers lying in the hospital while his father tells him that he got what he deserved. It's a quietly devastating track, and Tre wraps it up with a verse about how all the shit that he's survived has made him who he is. Not too many other rappers are quite this honest about the squalid shit they've gone through, and not too many rappers come through it all sounding this wise, or this focused. "}