{"label":" Wall of Sound","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15678/homepage_large.332e029b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Röyksopp","title":"Senior","text":" Röyksopp's career arc to date has seen the Norwegian duo steadily developing into exquisite pop architects. Beginning with the comparatively muted Melody A.M. in 2001 and continuing through to 2005's brighter, bolder The Understanding, Röyksopp fully blossomed into electropop impresarios with last year's Junior, sculpting alternately effervescent and melancholic synthesized soundscapes to accompany an expressive cadre of female singers. Looser than Air or Zero 7 yet less alloverthemap than Basement Jaxx, Röyksopp seemed to have found their niche and hit their stride, crafting danceable, emotionally satisfying technopop that's neither too tasteful nor too garish.It took Röyksopp, always busy remixing other artists, nearly four years to follow up Melody A.M. with The Understanding and another four to unveil Junior, so the release of Senior after a scant 18 months already suggests it's a different sort of beast. Following three albums of increasingly accessible pop, Senior is an entirely instrumental effort, and a moody, slowly unfurling one at that. Taken as a resolutely minor work, it yields a favorable amount of correspondingly minor charms, but there's also no mistaking that it neutralizes much of the momentum Röyksopp have gradually been building up over the past several years.Röyksopp's previous albums have all been peppered with instrumental cuts, typically serving as palate cleansers or interstitial tissue to subtly strengthen the album's effect as a whole. Yet a whole LP of interstitials isn't the sort of thing that can stand on its own. The kind of downtempo stuff that makes up the majority of Röyksopp's vocalless compositions just doesn't hold up to concentrated, repeated listens like many other forms of instrumental electronic music (techno, postdisco, wonky, etc.). Its ruminative nature is at odds with rhythmic propulsion and rarely delivers much of a \"wow\" factor. At the same time, it also lacks the precise, engrossing intricacy Four Tet or Caribou exhibit in their oftcontemplative efforts.What we get instead is largely an album of langorous, meditative cuts, the best of which \"The Alcoholic\", \"Senior Living\", \"Forsaken Cowboy\", \"Coming Home\" succeed by sending fragile, melancholic synth and guitar melodies loping across lush, atmospheric sonic floors. Unfortunately, over a third of the record's running time is wasted on the meandering \"The Drug\", ponderous \"The Fear\" and a pointless instrumental redux of Junior's \"Tricky Tricky\". It can't be said that Senior fails to meet its modest wallpaperish aims, yet it hardly represents the best Röyksopp has to offer. "}