{"label":" Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1450/homepage_large.b9d3f689.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"The Church","title":"Forget Yourself","text":" Whether it's the liberation of a century's end, or that a younger generation are so distracted by the bangs in their eyes, oncefaltering guardians of good taste have turned out some excellent material the last few years. Wire, Bark Psychosis, Mission of Burma, and The Church are all proving there is potent ammunition left in the altrock canon. After Arista dropped The Church following 1994's abysmal breakup album Sometime Anywhere, Australia's favorite sons shouldered a decade of personal conflicts, parenthood, and continental divide (their members have lived in different hemispheres for a decade now). Save the occasionally brilliant Magician Among the Spirits (1996), the fractured group's 1990s efforts never bore fruit, and a pair of singledisc retrospectives released alongside their creative nadir the flat covers record A Box of Birds (1999) made for harsh evidence of their fading glory. Decidedly traditional, The Church drew from obvious sources The Beatles, the Stones, Neil Young but were blessed with a brilliant, unique guitarist in Marty WillsonPiper, and the effortless voice of frontman Steve Kilby. Breathy and far too theatrical on the band's early new wave records, the silky delivery Kilby cemented during The Church's paisley phase (19831986) ranks alongside 1980s icons Ian McCulloch, Matt Johnson, and Robyn Hitchcock as an unmistakable aspect of the decade's alternative rock landscape. If his overreaching and occasionally mystic lyrics continue unabated on Forget Yourself, they're once again buffered by the quality songwriting that made the saccharine Starfish anthem \"Under the Milky Way\" a Top 40 smash in America. The lush opener \"Sealine\" heralds a complete retreat to the golden years of Gold Afternoon Fix  (1990) and Starfish (1988), but the core sound of Forget Yourself embodies the focused intent outlined succinctly in the album's title. After a tentative first step (2002's After Everything Now This), The Church are out to reclaim their nearly squandered standing as one of few alternative rock acts to develop a solid catalog and enduring identity in the 1980s. \"Telepath\" is certainly a look back on the band's heyday particularly Priest=Aura, their overlooked 1992 drone titan but notes of regret indicate they're mining darker times as well. Stratospherically layered vocals soar over the horizons of \"Telepath\" and \"Song in Space\", both swelling anthems driven by second drummer Tim Powles, who though he joined the band at the worst possible time (1994) brought a muchneeded diversity to The Church's basic rhythm section. With the band's creativity back in full bore, his presence is a revelation most significantly on \"Lay Low\" and \"Appalatia\". On first listen, both songs appear to reach for relevance with bouncing, trendily compressed beats, but WillsonPiper's guitar leads are such a signature, there's no mistaking The Church for their followers. As he's always sold Kilby's altruistic wordplay, WillsonPiper capably updates his band's sound on more presenttense tracks like the excellent ballad \"Maya\" and upbeat, more experimental \"Reversal\".Forget Yourself is no small resurrection, and though it owes a great deal to The Church's traditionalism, that's nothing to apologize for. Having quickly outgrown the imageheavy days of egotistical, romantic fatalism that so pigeonholed The Cure and never overestimating the significance of pop music as per R.E.M. The Church can raid their closet without fear of coming out in flares. While there's room for argument that parts of Forget Yourself are selfabsorbed in their nostalgia (The Monkees chorus \"You can't spend the whole song in space\" is a glaring example), you could hardly accuse such steadfast, low profile musicians of opportunism. Besides, it's highly unlikely The Church will profit by looking in the mirror. Yet in doing so, they've granted fans what they wanted most: More of the same. "}