{"label":" Merok / True Panther","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15695/homepage_large.4639a803.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Teengirl Fantasy","title":"7AM","text":" A couple of weeks ago, some guy stumbled upon a viral smash by stretching Justin Bieber's \"U Smile\" out to a 35minute whale call. More than a year and a half ago, one half of haze&B dance duo Teengirl Fantasy, Nick Weiss, dropped a similarly slowed down take on Mariah Carey's \"Touch My Body\". It's more of a mission statement than a remix; even the most devout Mariah fan wouldn't be able to place the source material. Talking about the redo, Weiss said, \"I'll just be listening to a song on the radio and be like, 'This would sound cool if there was no highend or if it was played at halfspeed.' It's like a kick in the back of your head telling you how you want to hear a pop song.\" That same perverting principle runs through Teengirl Fantasy's debut album, 7AM, which has Weiss and his Oberlin College buddy Logan Takahashi working out nine tracks of gulping bass, forgotten R&B samples, and diffusive synth flutters.Teengirl fall in line with a current crop of very sharp twentysomething dudes who can't help but mess with the pop, R&B, and dance music they grew up with. People like UK dubstepsoul guru James Blake, Keith Sweatadoring nofi crooner How to Dress Well, and fellow Oberlin pair Blondes are all filtering searing musical memories through their defraction lenses. It's not just that they don't have the means to replicate the topnotch production of their beatbased idols they don't want to. It's not a kneejerk response against yesteryear's hits as much as an openminded exploration of those songs' more spacedout possibilities. \"I definitely think it's cool to go back and put the past together in any way that I want,\" Takahashi told me. Teengirl Fantasy's particular strategy for making nonclub kids move picks and chooses bits of funked Chicago house, islandbreeze Balearic beats, and sultry soul à la Sade. Everything comes out more liquid; the opener is called \"Vibes\", and its name corresponds with a floating vagueness that runs through much of the album.While 7AM's halfremembered intangibility is at least intriguing on most tracks, the album often gets caught in a limbo where the blurriness becomes an unfortunate end to itself. \"In an Area\", \"In the Rain\", and \"Make the Move\" all get stuck in this zone and drag down the record's first half. But then the duo offer two glimpses of the potential of their sound. \"Four to Floor\" bounces on the sort of bassline a tranquilized R. Kelly may dream up. Joyous vocal samples whiz by and, suddenly, Teengirl are making good on their promise to revamp the past. Then it leads into the record's centerpiece, unanimous high point, and yearend contender.Tellingly, \"Cheaters\" has Weiss and Takahashi taking a more background role while letting a stunning vocal sample of 70s discofunk group Love Committee do most of the hard work. The throatstretching, heartbursting vox were originally attached to a bulbous, uptempo track. But recontextualized amidst Teengirl's foggy house throb, they finally sound at home more than 30 years after their initial recording. \"Cheaters\" is one of too few songs on 7AM that offers a concrete anchor for Teengirl to work around, and it suggests they may benefit by cutting through their own haze more often in order to let those dreamy memories ring clearer. The song is the best thing this duo has ever done by a daunting degree whether it'll end up as a fluke or a breakthrough is tantalizingly uncertain. "}