{"label":" Fat Possum","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15708/homepage_large.4c9057c1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Crocodiles","title":"Sleep Forever","text":" You could practically hear a better record trying to crawl out of Crocodiles' 2009 debut, Summer of Hate. For all its barbed melodies and immersive murk, Hate was mired by a reverence for its influences the dark jangle pop of the Jesus and Mary Chain and Echo and the Bunnymen, mostly that bordered on mimeograph. Its songs were decently crafted, the production fittingly dank. But the record felt bored with itself, almost like it, too, wondered why they'd write the \"Be My Baby\" drumbeat or a \"Darklands\" guitar swirl into so many tunes. It all needed some sorting out.Enter James Ford of Simian Mobile Disco, who mans the boards here on Sleep Forever, Crocodiles' improved second go. With him, Ford brings in a slew of new instrumental textures and an update to the influences mainframe to go with the sharper songwriting. With Ford doing the sorting, the difference is immediately clear. Hate's dry heave has been replaced with a muggy churn that builds on Echo and company's own Crocodiles while working in more krautrock palpitations and a druggy Madchesterlike bustle. It's brasher, fuller, woolier, with little shards of sound scraping against the speakers, laying on the muchneeded grit. Next to this, Summer of Hate sounds like a demo.Expansive sound in place, Crocodiles bring the tunes to match. Opener \"Mirrors\" unfurls slowly, gracefully notching up the racket before sliding into its monstrous verses. The lurching \"Stoned to Death\" has a good char on it, while the title track just glows in amniotic warmth. But it's \"Hearts of Love\", with its bold glockenspielassisted melody, that's Sleep Forever's peak, a rollicking devotional that suggests the weary grandeur of Spiritualized with the Flaming Lips basher Steven Drozd on drums. Summer of Hate felt meek at times, content to retreat into its own shadow; Sleep Forever's many oversized melodies and widerreaching sound prove that these guys do a lot better taking a few steps into the light.There are still some weak spots; singer Brandon Welchez comes over a tad blank, at times oversinging and underenunciating. Though they've taken pains to expand their sound, the least of these tunes feel almost as though they've simply switched out JAMC jangle for Primal Scream peal without injecting much of themselves into it. And, while they seem to do bigger best, they do occasionally slip into empty bombast; closer \"All My Hate and My Hexes Are For You\" repeats its title line at least a dozen times when once would've done it. But these are minor missteps for a band that seemed to be stumbling right out of the gate barely a year ago. "}