{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15701/homepage_large.2a24dbee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Superchunk","title":"Majesty Shredding","text":" The last time Superchunk released an album, you could've conceivably called them an emo band, or at least a protoemo band, without starting a fight. Here's to Shutting Up came out in 2001, when bands like the Promise Ring and the Get Up Kids were indie fixtures. Those bands stole plenty of winking heartfelt whoaohohs and ragged sugarrush tempos from Superchunk's playbook. Since then, emo has gone through at least five or six sea changes; it now sounds absolutely nothing like Superchunk. The world has changed. Superchunk haven't.Majesty Shredding isn't a reunion album, though bands break up and reunite in way less time than Superchunk took between albums. And it's not an album that Superchunk needed to make to keep their collective name out there. After all, Superchunk's Mac McCaughan and Laura Ballance founded Merge Records; these days, they're making that Arcade Fire and Spoon money. So for at least a few years, Superchunk have operated something like a fun hobby; the band accepts whatever shows it feels like playing, and it has no pressure to crank out another album every few years. Even though Majesty Shredding has been a long time coming, it's not some grand statement. It's not some stylistic leap forward, either; the band still sounds very much like the one who released Here's to Shutting Up in 2001, which in turn sounded very much like the band who released its selftitled debut in 1990. Instead, it sounds like McCaughan had another 11 Superchunksounding songs sitting around, and the band finally found time to record them.Pretty incredibly, this band has cranked out snarky bruisedromantic poppunk anthems for two decades now, without any dip in energy level or quality control. They've made a few tweaks and improvements over the years, but they've all been in service of these scrappy, frantic singalongs. The only real new wrinkle on Majesty Shredding is McCaughan's newfound upper register; his yelp verges on Ted Leo status a few times here. But the real joy on the album lies in the little details, tiny and brilliant songwriting choices that bespeak all Superchunk's years in the game. The gorgeously liquid jangleriff that kicks in just at the very end of \"Winter Games\", the whooping \"yeah! yeah!\"s that close out \"Crossed Wires\", the viola that heroically fights upstream on the excellent ballad \"Fractures in Plaster\" younger bands might be able to come up with stuff like this, but they rarely execute these tricks with this level of confidence.There's not a whole lot at stake on Majesty Shredding, but there never has been for Superchunk; their biggest anthem, after all, is a matteroffact rail against an annoying coworker. Much of Majesty Shredding seems to concern the importance and difficulties inherent in maintaining a fantasy life as you get older, but it's not a morose or selfinvolved album. Instead, they've made a total wheelhouse record, and a very good one. The same qualities that make Majesty Shredding sound perfectly at home in Superchunk's discography also make it stand out in today's climate, where nobody really does straightahead wideeyed powerpunk well anymore, give or take a Surfer Blood or Japandroids. When lead Mountain Goats barker John Darnielle sings backup on one song and you don't even notice him, you're dealing with a band whose members know exactly who they are. So: A fine entry in a fine catalog. They aren't wasting that Arcade Fire money. "}