{"label":" Ostgut Ton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15719/homepage_large.faf81251.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Shed","title":"The Traveller","text":" Shed's music falls into small crevasses. It does this both conceptually find whatever plane techno, house, dubstep share and physically. The Traveller will not transport you or rock you or bend your mind. When you turn it up, it will not volley off your walls or rattle your windows; it seems to head straight for the corners, or the hollow spaces behind the drywall.On his second album, the Berlinbased Rene Pawlowitz abandons his knack for long, clubby techhouse jams in favor of a loosely tied LP of short, fragmented compositions. The Traveller, in both its title and its cover art, seems to suggest movement, but imprecisely. What the record really evokes is infrastructure roads, bridges, tunnels but without the actual transportation they encourage. There are no nineminute motorik jams, no mindaltering drift. Shed seems to aim for a loose connectedness. These tracks 14 in total, though you'll barely notice the spaces between them have alleys and cubbies. Some of them barely seem finished. If Shed's 12\"'s are selfcontained declarations, tracks like \"Keep Time\" and \"Atmo  Action\" are sighs.That's a lot of talk about what The Traveller isn't, but that's partly because it's difficult to pin down. I think of infrastructure and construction because it's a tough record; when a track like \"44A (Hardwax Forever)\" moves into a hard, thumping passage it stings like a scraped knee. Shed programs his drums so that they're big and overbearing but not thumping or anthemic. The rhythm of \"Mayday\" was made for stalking, but the Boards of Canaday synths that float over it lend it an innocence. It's difficult to imagine moving your body at all stalking, dancing, etc. to the nutty palpitations of \"Final Experiment\".None of this would work so well if The Traveller wasn't recorded quite so beautifully. Knock the volume up on \"Hello Bleep!\" and listen to the echoing, choral beauty. The spaces between the ghostly keyboards and the anvillike kick drum on \"The Bot\" feel like they have real depth, like you could peer into them without seeing a bottom; the song sounds like dub reggae percolating.The Traveller is a techno record without many of techno's signifiers. You will not lose yourself in repetition; if you try you will probably end up stomped by an unforeseen bass kick. The Traveller is hard, singular music that takes you nowhere. That's its beauty. "}