{"label":" Hometapes","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15720/homepage_large.0d3eb62c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Megafaun","title":"Heretofore","text":" That's a pretty evocative title for a minialbum like this one, which follows Megafaun's breakthrough fulllength, Gather, Form & Fly. The word itself suggests the present moment as the point of intersection between the past and the future, which is exactly where the North Carolina trio find themselves. They tease out old ideas and combine them with new ones, affixing Appalachian folk to classic rock, ambient, avant garde, and a kind of musical entropy that pushes many of their songs into sputtering, oddly compelling noise. On Gather, Form & Fly they found a way to integrate those compositional and decompositional urges, creating songs as postcards from the deepest backwoods: creased and worn, grassstained and dotted with dirt and grit, possibly crawling with critters, but with a simple, genial message scrawled on each one.Megafaun wrote and recorded these six songs in January and February of this year, with a coterie of friends and fellow musicians chipping in (notably, members of the Slaraffenland adding horns). So the easygoing mood of Heretofore sounds primarily social, at times even gregarious, which crucially gives shape to the band's rickety excursions. \"Eagle\", with its loping pace and halting melody, crams so many ideas in its seven minutes that it might burst its seams, yet the arrangement moves between them mercurially and with real curiosity. So it's not unexpected to hear studio applause as it winds down; simply keeping the song together sounds like quite a laudable accomplishment.\"Eagle\" would have slotted nicely in the middle of Gather, Form & Fly, but the instrumental \"Comprovisation for Connor Pass\" is less familiar and more ambitious. Another carefully chosen word, \"comprovisation\" involves the creation of a new composition through various improvisations, which means the song rambles with a sense of purpose. Megafaun assemble it patiently over 12 minutes, shifting styles and sounds fluidly. The song dips sharply at the eightminute mark, increasing the tension before launching into a widescreen finale that is all the sweeter for the long journey that preceded it. \"Comprovisation\" sounds like a daring piece of music, exciting and absorbing in the way it builds up instead of falling apart.That track represents only one side of Megafaun, of course; as much as they work off the cuff, the band also writes tightly structured songs that toy with the traditional blues and pop forms. With its breezy pace and classicrock melody, \"Carolina Days\" isn't just good roadtrip music; it's a roadtrip in itself, a crosscountry travelogue that starts among the redwoods of California and ends up at a \"pink house in the Catskills.\" They could be chronicling a recent tour or mapping out their own musical inspirations. \"Volunteers\" is stationary by comparison, its highlonesome chorus celebrating the band's home state as a place to nurse deep regret: \"Sun light, silhouettes of dogwood trees,\" they sing in unison, \"swayin' all alone in the Carolina breeze.\"Bookending Heretofore are two songs that effortlessly reconcile the band's seemingly conflicting impulses. With a slow, scenesetting guitar riff and a simple melody that showcases their brotherly harmonies, the opening title track gathers form quietly, reaching its full stride as the music grows noisier and arrhythmic. The mess complements the order, as it does on \"Bonnie's Song\", a wisp of a valedictory that sounds all the more elegiac for being so ephemeral and final. It's a fitting conclusion to an album that tweaks the past to point the way forward. "}