{"label":" Blue Horizon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15732/homepage_large.9a846296.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"The Black Angels","title":"Phosphene Dream","text":" By screwing vintage 13th Floor Elevators riffs down to triphop tempos, the Black Angels struck psychrock pay dirt. The Austin, Texasbased quintet's 2006 debut, Passover, and its followup, Directions to See a Ghost, were sufficiently fuzzyheaded to win over a few recordstore nerds, but also possessed enough headbobbing grooves to keep college dudes from getting bored. The Black Angels' third album, Phosphene Dream, is groovier still. Recorded in Los Angeles with producer D. Sardy (Black Mountain, Holy Fuck), it finds the band peeling back the psychedelic murk and tempering its bad vibes with a hint of flowerpower homage. It's about time, too. After two records of hazy drones and midtempo grind, the Black Angels desperately needed to hit the defog button and get some perspective.It helps that the group has flushed out its Rolodex of Acceptable Psychedelic Influences. On \"True Believers\", frontman Alex Mass bends his voice into a spooky and nearperfect approximation of Jefferson Airplane singer Grace Slick. \"Haunting at 1300 McKinley\" borrows some bluesy shuffle from the Animals. \"Yellow Elevator #2\" slips from a spiky Pink Floydinspired organ hook to an eerie Odessey and Oracleworthy outro. These are welcome additions to the band's sonic palate, but the past doesn't hold all the answers for the Black Angels. Their eerie vibe doesn't mesh very well with the hippie decade's perkier moments. \"Sunday Afternoon\" brings those 13th Floor Elevators riffs back up to speed, but lacks that band's cultish quirks. \"Telephone\", the album's uptempo tambourinefueled first single, comes off as an underdeveloped British Invasion pastiche. Or maybe it's just out of place, sandwiched between hauntedheadshop fare like \"The Sniper\".Instead, the record works best when the band simply reigns in the sludgy brew th  at defined its sound early on. Whether pushed by Sardy or entirely of their own volition, the Black Angels have tightened up their songwriting. It's the subtle things that make a difference laying off the atmospherics, incorporating sudden shifts, and clamping down on the meandering jams. Album opener \"Bad Vibrations\" starts pretty much where Directions to See a Ghost left off, but it gets an adrenaline shot for a noiseaddled final minute. The album's heaviest track, \"River of Blood\", cycles from steady groove to freeform freakout to precisionwound fuzz riffage in just four minutes.The Black Angels had some great songs on Passover and Directions to See a Ghost, but after a few tracks, they all began to sound the same. Phosphene Dream is a step up, if only for the little bit of variety that the tighter arrangements and genrehopping provide. You can take it a piece at a time or swallow it in one big dose. "}