{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15727/homepage_large.6369ba3d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Manic Street Preachers","title":"Postcards From a Young Man","text":" Even when the Manic Street Preachers aren't making their best music, there's something about the band's earnestness and honesty that's refreshing. Though known for their punk roots and political lyrics, they are not cynical. And when bass player Nicky Wire goes around telling interviewers that the new record is going to sound like \"heavy metal Tamla Motown,\" you know he desperately believes it doesn't really matter what it actually sounds like. \"We're going for big radio hits on this one,\" said the band's guitarist James Dean Bradfield about Postcards From a Young Man, presumably talking about radios outside of the United States. So mission accomplished, I suppose.The band seemed to undergo a sort of catharsis making last year's Journal For Plague Lovers, which used lyrics from a notebook left behind by longdisappeared (and presumed deceased) band member Richey Edwards. They made their best record since the 1990s and gave their friend a last airing, and now on to the next thing. Postcards goes in a distinctly different direction, and I'd say the previous Manics album it most closely parallels musically is 1998's This Is My Truth Tell Me Yours. It's packed with soaring string arrangements, massive choruses, guitar pyrotechnics, guest spots, and a gospel choir that shows up on four tracks. It's big, colorful, and determined in a way this band has pretty much perfected.Some of those guest spots are hard to notice without liner notes (John Cale playing keys on \"AutoIntoxication\", Duff McKagan (!) playing bass on \"A Billion Balconies Facing the Sun\"), but they make sense given how much looser the group sounds here. Echo and the Bunnymen's Ian McCulloch duets with Bradfield on \"Some Kind of Nothingness\", and while they both offer commanding vocal performances, they are a bit overwhelmed by the choir that swells up at the end: There's just a bit too much going on at once, which turns out to be the album's one weakness. When they pull back a bit and just rock, though, it works. \"A Billion Balconies\" runs headlong into its guitarstrangling midsection, and \"AutoIntoxication\" is ragged and heavy when it goes into the bridge after a stinging guitar break, you hear how galvanizing this band can be.Some of the band's bigger gestures come off. Lead single \"(It's Not War) Just the End of Love\" is grandiose and intentionally sweeping, opening with a huge string theme, but the compact writing, tuneful guitar solo, and instantly memorable chorus make it easy to enjoy. \"All We Make Is Entertainment\" is a slow anthem, and Wire's lyrics pile on the irony: \"All we make is entertainment/ It's so damn easy/ And inescapable/ We're so postmodern/ We're so posteverything.\" Bradfield as usual does an otherworldly job of making melodies out of words like that he's an outstanding vocalist, which makes it curious that Nicky Wire takes the lead on a song here. His reedy turn on \"The Future Has Been Here Forever\", which also features drummer Sean Moore on trumpet, is better than his past lead vocals, but still a work in progress.While I wouldn't say that Postcards From a Young Man is quite the latecareer masterstroke Journal For Plague Lovers was, it is still a product of a reenergized band. Whether or not it actually garners them the hits and mass audience they're aiming for (and at least in Britain, it seems inconceivable that it won't), they've managed to make an inviting, populist album that deserves the attention. It's maybe not quite heavy metal Tamla Motown, but it is Manic Street Preachers, and here, that's enough. "}