{"label":" DMZ","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15725/homepage_large.44ff96ef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Digital Mystikz","title":"Return II Space","text":" If you initially got into dubstep for the kinds of moods it set in 2006 atmospheric, crisp, dark, spare  you're a long way from Point A. Veteran artists and familiar labels are leaning towards influences from pop or R&B or house. The throb has turned into a wobble, and from there into a glitchedout burst of shrapnel. Everything's all tinted purplish and refracting neon off chrome surfaces where grey concrete used to stand. And maybe that's how it should be. Instead of disappearing into its own navel or mistaking alienating inscrutability for artistic advancement, dubstep's propensity for spinoff mutations has resulted in a branching evolution that's been accessible to a lot of longtime fans every step of the way. But not every pillar of the scene is restless enough to head in that direction. And whether the new Digital Mystikz album is a bold affirmation of tradition or just an artist content to stick with what worked from the start, it should appeal to listeners who missed the idea of what dubstep used to be.Not that Return II Space is irrelevant in fact, it's the continuation of an aesthetic that a lot of genre enthusiasts thought was sorely missing. As the soloalbuminallbutname from DMZ cofounder Mala, it's closer to the King Tubby and Scientist affinities of classic dubstep sonics than the glossy electro inflections that rock trendier speakers. This is hoodiesup music, engineered with the kind of echo calibrated to meet thousandyard stares in dark corners. Drums are heavy on labsterilized snare hits; low frequencies are split between subtletoned hums and subdued burbles; the actual basslines are heavy, but they submerge you instead of launching you.Yet there's enough unique ornamentation to push things ahead. It could be as coldly serene as the crystalline bells in \"Unexpected\" or as pacingtiger ominous as the vintage synth in \"Pop Pop Epic\"; as forwardlooking as the tweak of Joy Orbison's choppy drones in \"Livin' Different\" or as historically evocative as the title track, which rides on an aluminum propeller whir that sounds like it was extracted from the Prodigy's Music for the Jilted Generation highlight \"Skylined\". Or it could be \"Mountain Dread March\", which is all seething buildup with the big knockyouonyourass payoff largely withheld and that, cleverly enough, makes the whole trembling procession feel epic in its own way without having to drop a shitton of leadweight lowend on your skull. It's just a snowball of trap hits rolling downhill, and it does more for the idea of momentum than an armada of gutchurn bludgeonbass singles could.Still, there's a good chance that this album in the form attainable by you the consumer is not the best way to experience it. Return II Space which, at six songs, seems a bit brief should be looked at as a triple12\", even if you snagged it in digital form. This music was built for sound systems, not headphones, and while they stand strong on their own, it feels like these would sound best pitted against other tracks that take different angles to the sound. Sure, \"Mountain Dread March\" sounds massive here, but it might not even reach its full potential until you can hear it in a mix, like what Kode9 does with it on his DJKicks installation. There, it doesn't really sound like a preservation act at all it feels more like the glue that holds all the pieces together. "}