{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15734/homepage_large.851bd41c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ninja Tune XX: 20 Years of Beats and Pieces","text":" This is a lot of music, sixplus discs' worth, enough to fill up a cheap flash drive and keep you busy for a week or two. And it's a pretty lavish format for a label to splash out on, at least considering the presumed death of the physical music object. But then Ninja Tune's earned the right to show off a little. At 20 years in the game, they're right behind Warp as the two longestrunning (and successful) UK indie labels to come out of the late1980s/early90s explosion in dance music and hiphop. So here's Ninja Tune XX, nearly 100 songs mapping out the label's current place in the scene.How did Ninja get here? The label's had three key phases. In the early 90s, they helped to usher in triphop/instrumental hiphop, with artists like Coldcut and DJ Food claiming that the future of music would be written in breakbeats and fuzzy samples. By the late 90s, they'd taken in neojazz cats and underground rappers, both of which had a live and loose fluidity that ran counter to the label's rep for downtempo loops. By the end of the first decade of the 21stcentury, they'd absorbed many of the complementary/competing currents of postrap culture: dubstep, UK hiphop, grime, various hybrids of all three. The label debuted as a leader, then retrenched when rave culture exploded in a million directions, and came out the other end with a savvy magpie approach, which makes sense considering it's a label founded by DJs.Ninja Tune's always evolved, adding new styles and refining the old, more than it's outandout reinvented itself. They never stopped releasing slow, moody instrumental hiphop singles, for instance, even if they were no longer operating in a world where DJ Shadow flirted with mainstream stardom. And today's cuttingedge producers still owe plenty to the sort of thing Ninja Tune was doing a decade ago. (See the brokenjazz drum programming on the Zomby tune on XX.) Autechre's fracturedbutnotunfunky remix of the Bug's \"S  keng\" on XX sounds like both oldschool IDM and uptodate dancehall. It's a pretty perfect summation of a label that grabs for what's hot without rejecting its roots.On Ninja Tune XX, things tend as always toward the instrumental, and those instrumentals still favor lowend inventiveness over trad hooks. Indeed, most of the weak tracks are the ones which abandon beatscience for undercooked melodies and lessthanstriking singers. (The lukewarm triphop torch songs can be ignored outright.) The \"beats\" part of the label's famous \"beats and pieces\" equation certainly connects back, at various points, to Ninja's long history. But XX also feels very different from the 10yearanniversary collection the label released in 2000, back when \"indiefriendly beats\" still meant turntablism, while dubstep was just a dark glimmer in the eyes of a few South London producers.The scratchy vinylbased warmth of the label's early days seems to be all but gone; a chillier digitalera sound palette predominates. Songs are more likely to be driven by frizzing 8bit synth riffs than samples, and the drums often owe more to modern dancehall than Golden Age hiphop. As for the rappers, it's the Brits who stand out, which points out how confident and pleasurable UK rappers have grown over the last decade. Back at the turn of the millennium, most people would have chosen rapfree beats over the contemporaneous crop of Brits imitating their NYC peers. Now there's a thrilling range of voices Ms Dynamite's smoky raggaderived menace, the surreal vaudevillian backandforth of Big Dada Sound all working within very British idioms. Meanwhile, you've got American indie rapper Spank Rock backed by Todd Edwards' fluttering gospel samples, Four Tet softening the hardcore rhymes of the AntiPop Consortium with gently rolling techno, and Britrap survivor Roots Manuva refashioned into clockwork Rough Trade synthpunk by Micachu.And I've described, what, less than 10 contributions? It's a lot to process. (It's got to be the only comp in history to feature both ElP and ElB, Michachu and King Jammy.) That breadth can seem a little intimidating if you're dipping into this stuff for the first time. XX might feel more like a gift to longtime fans you've seen us through both the boom times and the fallow patches, so here's your overstuffed reward but Ninja newbies shouldn't be put off. With the exception of house and techno, just about every crucial 21st century electronic style is touched upon here, a pretty excellent education with the feel of a wellstocked party playlist. Ninja Tune XX feels like both a late (if fond) farewell to the opulent multidisc box sets of the 20th century and an announcement that Ninja Tune's A&R instincts remain strong enough to survive the craziness of the 21st. "}