{"label":" Autobus","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15735/homepage_large.bce149fd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Weird Weeds","title":"Help Me Name Melody","text":" The title of Weird Weeds' fourth album might be a literal request. Four of the 11 songs on Help Me Name Melody are nameless, as if the Austin quartet actually needed assistance. Those four are also the only instrumentals, so maybe the lack of titles just corresponds to lack of lyrics. But there is something about this open, exploratory music that makes the album title fitting. These aren't experimental songs there are definite melodies, wellwritten and deftly played. But they also sound unconstrained and natural, more like growing plants than manmade constructions.That organic effect comes not so much from the songwriting, which is often quite careful and precise, as how the songs are played. Subtle and confident, Weird Weeds control the music's continuous flow many of the tracks meld together across index breaks without sounding like control freaks. In other words, they let sounds happen as much as they make them happen. In that way they evoke the similarly authoritative nuance of Low. On the surface, that comparison is clearest in the band's penchant for reverent malefemale vocal harmonies. But the connection goes deeper. Mining patient rhythms, minimal arrangements, and committed repetition, Weird Weeds reach peaks that match Low's most moving work.Those are techniques the band has used before, but Help Me Name Melody is their most coherent result to date. Much of the cohesion comes from the lyrics, even though they total less than 250 words. In short phrases and humming deliveries, Weird Weeds capture glimpses of nature that reinforce the music's organic qualities, preferring words like sun, rain, rivers, and grass. \"Weeks of warm weather/ When does lovely weather become dry?\" Sandy Ewen moans in \"A Drought\", mimicking the solemn music that preceded her. Again like Low, there's a religious feeling to such prayerlike tunes, as if the band's patience has a divine quality.On paper that might sound overly somber, but Help Me Name Melody is much more celebratory than meditative. There's a countryish sway throughout, with Nick Hennies' drumming adding pulse to even the most reserved sections. Often that pulse and the sounds that grow around it produce sneaky crescendos. The sneakiest comes at the end a final untitled instrumental marches into a buzzing nest of guitar, evoking Earth's recent dusty postmetal, before melting into closer \"Sun Comes Up\", a hymn to the pleasures of contrarianism. \"When it's hot I stay cool/ When it's cold I stay warm/ When it rains I stay dry\" sounds illogical, but for Weird Weeds, contradiction is as natural as a sunlit rain shower. "}