{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15743/homepage_large.c9d1e0ed.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Eskmo","title":"Eskmo","text":" Brendan Angelides, aka Eskmo, has been gathering steam as an electronic musician for over a decade, but he's really come into his own in the past couple of years. In 2009 he released the deservedly wellreceived singles \"Hypercolor\" and \"Agnus Dei\" on his own Ancestor label, and then he scored one of the best remixes on Bibio's The Apple and the Tooth, a molten vamp on \"Dwrcan\". This led to an invitation to perform with Nosaj Thing at one of Flying Lotus' Brainfeeder sessions, to working with Amon Tobin as Eskamon, and to releasing his own tracks on Warp and Planet Mu. With the release of his debut LP on Ninja Tune, it seems clear that his moment has arrived. Unfortunately, he hasn't quite risen to meet it.Eskmo's music incorporates hiphop, glitch, and, increasingly, dubstep. His selftitled debut has all the right trappings: It sounds like a malfunctioning arcade cabinet, it's kneedeep in bass, the percussion appears to consist mainly of dice and bubbles, the synth lines are pinchedoff and squealing, and there are some denatured vocals. But only a couple of tracks, the wriggly \"Moving Glowstream\" and the mildly irritating \"Starships\", have anything like the lopsided textures, rhythmic swerves, and glowing colors that made Eskmo's 2009 singles so appealing. The other tracks are pretty flat and unmemorable, with the exception of the opener \"Cloudlight\", which provides a sense of colliding weathers that's sorely missed elsewhere. In particular, the record's home stretch is just kind of a mess, seeming to lose all regard for melodic and rhythmic center. What happened?My suspicion is that the inclusion of vocals made Eskmo feel the need to thin out his productions, clearing out the knottier and thicker parts the most interesting ones. The vocals are in the archly louche, coarsegrained, low register that seems so prevalent since Matthew Dear's Asa Breed, and since they're neither novel nor especially charismatic, the production suffers needlessly. The acute angles and purposeful evolution of his prior singles are replaced by long, endlessly resliced bass and synth grooves, though there are flashes of life throughout, like the daisychained burps of the clearly Timbalandinspired \"The Melody\". Without much variety to spice it up, the overall sluggardly pace is energysapping. An album of the sort of tracks on which Eskmo earned his reputation might not have gone amiss before he ventured a more songwriterly statement, but there's no reason he can't regroup and pull that off yet. "}