{"label":" R&S","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15758/homepage_large.99a2f5f5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"James Blake","title":"Klavierwerke EP","text":" \"Klavierwerke\" simply means \"piano works\" in German. It's a name you'd normally find in classical music a collection of Beethoven sonatas, for instance, might be called this. In James Blake's hands, it's something different. The gifted British producer's new EP is rooted in the piano (he's classically trained), but he gave it a German name as an homage to famed Berlin techno spot Berghain. It's easy to see why Blake might feel at home there the club is known for showcasing fresh and innovative sounds, and few artists are stretching the boundaries of dance music wider than he is right now.Blake's accomplished two things so far that make him stand apart. First, he established a signature style almost right out of the gate a kind of \"grinding, mechanical soul,\" as my colleague Mike Powell put it, that's both stark and evocative and shows an impeccable use of blank space. Second, he's proven with two consecutive EPs CMYK and now this one that he can apply this technique to conceptually distinct projects. Like CMYK, this album is made primarily from samples, but instead of using shards of 90s R&B, here he manipulates his own vocal and piano recordings for a totally different effect.Blake told us back in April that this album \"is a lot more personal,\" and that immediately comes through where CMYK was jittery and clubleaning, these tracks are much more inwardlooking. Even if he's more focused on emotion this time, Blake's production is still something to marvel at. His source material is raw hissy snippets recorded on a laptop microphone but he offsets it with crystalclear sounds in a way that creates rich contrast. (Hear this tension in the title cut when vocal static rubs against those dry handclaps and dubby bass notes.) Each detail is carefully chosen: He can let a tinny piano note sit by itself for a few seconds because he's presumably picked that one from dozens.The EP's finest moments come when Blake sets his meticulous ear on sounds that ache with longing and soul, and there's no better example of that than \"I Only Know (What I Know Now)\". Here, he puts his trademark pitchshifted vocals over a spare pianoandbass arrangement that gives way to open space every few seconds. The way he tweaks his vocal speeding it up one second, then choking it and dragging it out the next creates this pushandpull between hope and dissatisfaction, and ultimately makes it sadder. There are a lot of guys doing this sort of thing well right now (Balam Acab springs to mind) but it's hard to remember a bit of vocal processing this effective since Burial.That's admittedly lofty praise, but the more music Blake makes, the more he inches away from the competition. Part of the reason is that his work feels very singular sure, he'll incorporate bits of garage or dub here and there, and his sound is ostensibly a descendant of dubstep but there really isn't anybody else making music quite like this. Especially in a genre where the next sound is absorbed and repurposed with lightning speed, that's not an easy thing to accomplish. "}