{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15753/homepage_large.0341d835.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Clinic","title":"Bubblegum","text":" The last time we reviewed a new Clinic album, Nate Patrin suggested that you wouldn't get much more of a sense of the band's evolution by listening to their albums in chronological order than by putting their tracks in alphabetical order. I disagree. While it is true that Clinic have always sounded more or less the same, they have made a point of introducing new textures and affects with each new record. The group changes in gradual, largely superficial ways that may not be entirely perceptible unless you've been paying close attention all along. Take, for example, the way they have embraced the aesthetics of late1960s psychedelia. Those elements are hardly present on their debut, Internal Wrangler, but have become central to their style since 2006's Visitations.Bubblegum, the band's sixth proper album, goes a few steps further in their ongoing exploration of vintage psychedelia. \"I'm Aware\", the opening track and lead single, signals a substantial change in approach, if not a drastic stylistic departure. The track begins with gently strummed acoustic guitar, and progresses to include lush strings, mellow coos, and an unusually clear and direct vocal performance by singer Ade Blackburn. Still, despite all these unClinic creative decisions, it still sounds exactly like the Clinic we've known for years. The melodies, the cadences, the rhythms, that distinct and vaguely creepy voice if you've heard a Clinic album, any Clinic album, you have heard this before. Though the group has consistently modified its approach to arranging its material, their songwriting has barely budged since 2002's Walking With Thee.This doesn't mean they haven't written a great deal of excellent songs. Bubblegum, like the five albums and slew of singles that came before it, delivers several strong tunes. Blackburn and his bandmates have a way of getting the most out of the limited parameters they have set for themselves. The mellow, acoustic psychedelia and relatively hifi production values of Bubblegum lends its tracks a touch of novelty  , but the songs that work best succeed on the same terms as anything else they've done over the past decade. Clinic are always going to excel when they go for hypnotic, swooning ballads like \"Baby\" and menacing garage rockers like \"Orangutan\", but they stumble a bit when they wander slightly beyond their comfort zone. The record's second half has too many soft, drifting acoustic numbers with pleasing textures but forgettable melodies. These slight missteps aren't enough to derail the album or distract from its high points, but they certainly drag on the momentum. The most exciting cuts revel in their newfound lushness. \"I'm Aware\" and \"Milk & Honey\" are sweet and airy; the title track sounds as though it is being presented in full saturated color in comparison to the stark black and white tonality implied by the band's earliest work.Clinic are a tricky band to judge, if just because their consistency can seem so much like artistic stagnancy. They've never made a bad album; they always deliver at least a few undeniable gems per record. Nevertheless, as much as Bubblegum evidences a lot of thought and effort on the part of the band, it still has the sound of musicians going through the motions and sticking too close to their formulae. Their craft is impeccable, and they still sound like no one else despite lifting from all sorts of obvious and obscure source influences, but there isn't enough spark to this material. It may be time for Clinic to begin experimenting with song forms rather than textures. At this point, a song that sounded like \"classic\" Clinic but had surprising melodic and rhythmic twists and turns would be much more exciting than the familiar Clinic moves dolled up in fancy clothing. "}