{"label":" Brassland","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15759/homepage_large.74fd3e3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Buke and Gass","title":"Riposte","text":" Some of what makes Buke and Gass so unique is borne of need a need to sound like a full band despite having only two members; a need for singer Arone Dyer to find a physically comfortable instrument to play that won't aggravate her carpal tunnel syndrome. Yet the Brooklyn duo's approach to music making goes far beyond simply finding solutions to these problems. Dyer plays a modified baritone ukulele (the \"buke\" in the group's name) that, yes, is smaller than a guitar, but her cohort, Aron Sanchez, also plays a bastardized instrument (the \"gass,\" Sanchez's own Frankenstein melding of guitar and bass) for no other obvious reason than the fact that he can. Percussion is taken care of by drums and bells operated by the pair's feet, yet Buke and Gass purposefully abstain from utilizing prerecorded loops.As you might imagine, all this ingenuity and rulebreaking engenders a noise that's quirky and bracing, and those are the hallmarks of Buke and Gass' debut album, Riposte. Dyer and Sanchez feed their respective buke and gass through amps and pedals, creating a buzzing, springy sound that brims with kinetic restlessness. Meanwhile, the footpropelled percussion monolithically thwacks away, lending the duo's music an austerity that belies its postpunk roots (groups like the Ex, Swell Maps, and Theoretical Girls are some of the main spiritual godfathers here). Dyer's voice easily gets swept up in this nervy momentum, her girlish yelps often evoking Karen O. So twitchy and bursting with ideas are Buke and Gass that their songs have a tendency to jump abruptly from one passage to the next without ever finding resolution or an anchor, and it causes a measurable chunk of Riposte's middle to blend together into something indistinguishable and a little wearying.When Buke and Gass manage to focus their energy, however, the results are positively arresting. Standouts are several, starting with the opening \"Medulla Oblongata\", with its evocative lyrics and Dyer's breathless repetition of the words \"danger doctor\" (the album's strident, clinical lyrics are occasionally clumsy but actually suit the music well). Other highlights include the hypnotic, circular repetitions of \"Sleep Gets Your Ghost\", the fervent, psychosexual \"Bundletuck\" (\"These days you wake up in a bundle of orgasm\"), and the winking \"Outt!\" (\"Everybody here is out to get you\"). Dyer and Sanchez are the sort of artists who will continue to challenge themselves at every turn. As long as they can keep that boundless creativity from going in a million different directions at once, their listeners will reap plenty of rewards. "}