{"label":" True Panther","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15765/homepage_large.9c394580.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Glasser","title":"Ring","text":" Remember that eMusic Selected + Collected comp from back in early 2009? Basically a rundown of hot new acts at the time, turns out the thing was pretty farsighted more than a couple of the bands it featured (Girls, Salem) went on to find big audiences. It was also the first time many of us heard Cameron Mesirow aka Glasser, whose track \"Apply\" was one of the disc's standouts. Back then Glasser was a solo project just Mesirow singing over GarageBand beats but the song had a great mix of electronic drag and skyward pop, and showcased Mesirow's impressive vocal range.Fastforward almost two years later and it seems like the kind of music Glasser makes sort of quasimystical, swirling electropop has become a lot more popular. On the indie side you've got Bat for Lashes (Glasser's closest sonic relative), Zola Jesus, and Fever Ray, as well as Florence and the Machine threatening to break big in the mainstream. So the timing's definitely right for Glasser's fulllength, and with Ring she's enlisted the help of producers Van Rivers and the Subliminal Kid to help flesh out her sound. Tracks are still based on Mesirow's early sketches, but now they've got more weight and sheen.There isn't an easy descriptor for Glasser's sound she incorporates bits of tropical pop, tribal percussion, and a couple of different strains of electronic music. Her songs sidestep traditionally linear arrangements for a more open, circular approach they kind of swoosh around without pausing at versechorus intersections. Interesting as this is, the main draw of Mesirow's music is her voice warm and flexible, she can bend it to suit different moods and tempos. Ring's best tracks, like \"Home\" and \"Glad\", create space for her vocals to soar. In \"Apply\", which gets an update here, heavy tribal percussion and grinding synths give way to a sunny refrain where she just bursts into the upper register.Mesirow's from California and comes from a family of artists, and her lyrics, which are sometimes vague and loosely metaphysical, bear the mark of a free spirit. To be honest, they can skew a tad squishy for me, but it's easy to overlook a line like, \"What's real can be anywhere, so put your faith in me and we can be free,\" when it's sung so beautifully. Contentwise, the most interesting cut is \"T\", an ode to Mesirow's best friend, New York artist Tauba Auerbach. Presumably the two share a special bond, both getting a certain level of fame from their creativity, and it's about experiencing something only one other person you know can identify with.Separate all of this from Ring and you're still left with a remarkably listenable album. People have compared Glasser to Björk but this isn't difficult music ultimately it feels more in line with loose, melodically generous records by Joni Mitchell or maybe even Feist. Granted, there's tons of sounds in this thing (in addition to the genreblending are all sorts of orchestral and percussive touches) but Mesirow and her producers never let it become overwhelming. It's not an incredibly daring or cerebral record Ring is electic, beatheavy, and easy to like. A sneakily confident debut that should please listeners at almost every turn. "}