{"label":" Angel Oven","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15769/homepage_large.843c27ae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Sailors With Wax Wings","title":"Sailors With Wax Wings","text":" Without even hearing a single long, drawnout note from their selftitled debut, you could guess that metal collective Sailors With Wax Wings' intention is to completely overwhelm their listeners. Just look at the guest list on this thing: Helmed by Pyramids' R. Loren, the SWWW crew includes Swans' Ted Parsons on drums, Prurient's Dominick Fernow handling the noise, James Blackshaw on piano, vocals from Marissa Nadler, and a plethora of other duties handled by members of Unwound, Krallice, Slowdive, Nadja, Current 93, and more. Add to the fact that the record was inspired by a trippedout encounter Loren had with The Red Badge of Courage author Stephen Crane's ghost, and you've got what appears to be one heady, crowded outing on your hands. In reality, Sailors With Wax Wings is anything but convoluted, using most of its stickyslow 53 minutes to focus on ghosted textures, squalling riffage, and melodic theatrics. Think Earth taking on the brash demonstrativeness of Muse, and you're pretty close.The result is neither as mismatched nor potentially intriguing as that equation might indicate. Sailors With Wax Wings are instead perfectly happy doing one thing and doing it fairly well. Almost every track (each of which derives its title from the hand of Crane himself) follows a prescribed set of rules and features a few definable, overlapping segments: swelling guitars, windswept atmospherics, shrouded vocals, and the occasional break in the slowrolling tension for nuanced flecks of cello or piano.Possibly as a byproduct of their literary genesis, these songs seem built to take you on little journeys. When executed properly, the results feel genuinely cinematic: \"Yes, I Have a Thousand Tongues, and Nine and NinetyNine Lie\" opens as a gothswaddled chantalong before settling into an airy, cosmic psych breakdown. Moments like this seem to favor the drawnout, peakandvalley structure of these songs, but after the same effect eight times in a row, Sailors With Wax Wings is a bit harder to swallow whole.The lack of deviation helps foster a cohesive, singular feel impressive considering how many hands are in this pot. So it's to be expected that this exercise could get a little tiring after a while. When attention is paid to detail, it's easy to get back onboard: Genuinely mighty guitars make it easy to forget ones that are noodled aimlessly, and the ethereally twisted jangle of \"There Was One Who Sought a New Road\" makes it easy to forgive the dull waltz of the following \"Strange That I Should Have Grown So Suddenly Blind\". But with so many wicked tongues at Loren's disposal, it may prove too difficult to overlook Sailors With Wax Wings' underdeveloped spots. "}