{"label":" ACT Music + Vision","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15764/homepage_large.9df7da82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Vijay Iyer","title":"Solo","text":" Vijay Iyer is, simply put, one of the most interesting and vital young pianists in jazz today. His 15year recording career has found him equally at home as a leader and collaborator. He's a member of Fieldwork, has worked with hiphop producer Mike Ladd and innovative saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa, he's been involved with members of the MBase improvisation collective and written orchestral works he's even on the new Das Racist mixtape (he coproduced the hidden track, \"Free Jazzmataz\"). Last year, he made some waves outside of jazz with his trio's thunderous cover of M.I.A.'s \"Galang\", and this year he received the Jazz Journalists Association Jazz Award as Musician of the Year, which is a pretty big deal (he's keeping company with Ornette Coleman and Herbie Hancock there).But for all that, he's never done a record all on his own until now. A lot of jazz pianists eventually get around to a solo LP the instrument provides an ample platform and when they do, it becomes a matter of figuring out how to structure it. You can give it a conceptual underpinning, focus on one element of your style, or essentially do a studio recital that aims to show some range, and Iyer takes the last route, cushioning a suite of originals with a couple of clutches of interpretations. Among the covers, the two best both tackle classics by Duke Ellington. Iyer's version of the 1927 Ellington/Bubber Miley composition \"Black & Tan Fantasy\" embraces the weird, dark drag of the original, ending quotation of Chopin's funeral march and all. The original \"Fleurette Africaine\", from Duke's 1962 collaboration with Charles Mingus and Max Roach Money Jungle, was a beautiful, diffuse meditation Iyer's take is stormy and slow, cloaked in the same shade of midnight blue as the Anish Kapoor sculpture that adorns the album cover.His version of Thelonious Monk and Kenny Clarke's 1942 compositional breakthrough \"Epistrophy\" is off the wall, dancing around the melod  y and speeding up Monk's lefthand patterns to a dizzying blur in tune with the sheetofsound technique Iyer has perfected over the years. He uses it more as a launch pad for a series of exploratory runs and tone clouds where he occasionally hints at Monk's rhythmic eccentricities. His cover of Michael Jackson's Thriller ballad \"Human Nature\" seems like it took a lot of planning to devise a few clever reharmonizations of the original's descending chorus hook keep it from getting too twinkly, but it's hard to pull off an instrumental version of a song like that without sounding precious in places, and it does at times.The originals Iyer places at the heart of the album begin ominously with \"Prelude: Heartpiece\", a track that lives in the lower octaves of the piano a gentle, high pulse is the only ray of light. \"Autoscopy\" is more like an earthquake, with fingers flying as patterns collide and the piece appears to collapse on itself at nearly every turn before settling into a quiet middle Iyer has a physics degree, and it's as though he set out to write a song that's essentially a selfordering system, solidifying out of chaos. The interlocking figures of \"Patterns\" work on a similar principle the piece proceeds elastically, each new surge forward sounding like the path of a ball set to bounce within a room.Solo ultimately reveals little we didn't already know about Vijay Iyer as a pianist, but to hear him explore these facets of his sound on his own, with no one to lean on, is still interesting. The central suite is where the album and the artist truly shine Iyer's concepts of harmony and rhythm are laid out so clearly here that it will be interesting to go back through his other records and search for the analogues in his group work, to see where his collaborators fit into his patterns. "}