{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15767/homepage_large.45747506.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Marnie Stern","title":"Marnie Stern","text":" Marnie Stern's hyperactive fingertapping guitar technique is flashy and impressive when taken at face value, but her records are memorable because they're more about earnest expression than technical demonstration. Her complex arrangements evoke emotional turmoil as the songs pingpong between excitement and panic, ecstasy and despair, extraordinary confidence and harrowing selfdoubt. It's intense stuff, and given its jittery rhythms and extreme treble, it's not always easy on the ears. Still, Stern's songs invite a strong bond with the listener for all its chargedup rock power, this is intimate music. It's like jumping headfirst into someone's psyche.Stern's last two albums were long on selfdirected pep talks, and channeled the nervous energy of her guitar playing into optimistic anthems like \"Ruler\" and \"Transformer\". Her latest isn't quite so positive. Though her words still show some faith in her ability to overcome adversity and change bad habits, the tone is far from triumphant in fact, some of these songs are outright defeatist. Stern's approach to songwriting and performing hasn't changed much, but the mood is darker, and the lyrics linger on loss, regret, doubt, and failed love. It's an album full of heavy, noisy catharsis, and the lines that stand out amidst the clatter are the ones most at odds with the cando spirit of her last record. The fact that she spent so much time in selfhelp mode last time around makes the moments of crippling selfdoubt all the more gutting it's hard to hear the woman who once declared, \"nothing can hold me down!\" and sold \"WIN 'MARNIE' WIN\" tshirts at her merch table insist that she is \"not enough\" on two consecutive tracks. You just want her to believe in herself all the time.The bad vibes on Marnie Stern have a way of highlighting an expressive, emotionally resonant quality that's been in her work all along. \"For Ash\", a song written in memory of a deceased exboyfriend, opens the album by cycling through stages of grief in waves of speedy riffs and harsh percussion before ending on a lovely, brittle melody \"I want to be in your imminent, elegant light.\" \"Transparency Is the New Mystery\" is the closest Stern has come to a power ballad, and its equal measure of longing and hopelessness is totally heartbreaking. \"Her Confidence\" gains its power from an atypically blunt riff that blurs the line between terror and empowerment. Many of these songs would be little more than pyrotechnics and flamboyant gestures in lesser hands, but Stern infuses every moment of her songs with odd humor and wounded, fragile humanity. It's impossible to miss the distinct person at the center of this noise.Given that Stern is a genre of one artmetal mathrock bubblegum pop, basically there's always going to be some novelty factor to her music for certain listeners. But with this set of songs, she's proving that the bells and whistles of her style are less important than what she's trying to express. This isn't to say that her technical prowess isn't still dazzling, or that her chemistry with drummer Zach Hill has become anything less than a thrill. As usual, Hill is her secret weapon. His percussion consistently enhances and complements her parts, and rarely in obvious ways. In some songs, such as \"Gimme\" and \"Female Guitar Players Are the New Black\", his fills seem to fight it out with Stern's notes, while in others, his accents fall on surprising beats. There's plenty here for musicians to analyze and dissect with envy, but first and foremost, this is an album for the body and the soul. "}