{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15770/homepage_large.534b9f0d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Highlife","title":"Best Bless EP","text":" If you're at all familiar with African music, you can pretty well guess what a band called \"Highlife\" might sound like. First emergent in Ghana at the end of the 19th century, highlife is a buoyant, joyful strain of Afropop characterized by clean, weaving guitar lines, generous use of space, punchy horns, and crisp, round melodies. Save the horns, highlife is essentially the sound of Highlife. Imagine Interpol instead calling themselves \"PostPunk\" and you've got an idea of just how onthenose this moniker seems.Coming from Highlife leader Sleepy Doug Shaw, a Brooklyn via London musician from the band White Magic who is an associate of Gang Gang Dance and Animal Collective, the band name also serves as an endaround that deflates those who criticize Western pastiche of African sounds. And why shouldn't Shaw be upfront about his inspiration? If you bleed all African, AfricanAmerican, or Caribbean influence from your record collection, that pretty much just leaves you with a bunch of Stephin Merritt. These days, Western listeners can and do regularly embrace once \"exotic\" sounds without much of a thought; for musicians, dipping their toes into these sounds isn't a fad, it's simply an option. One Shaw exercises here with a deft, agile hand.Shaw's been doing that for years, granted. His fingerpicking guitar style owes a lot to highlife, even when the debt isn't this obvious. Decamping to Trinidad last year, he went all the way with his fascination of the sound and emerged with a handful of blog hits that, a year later, and now collected on the Best Bless EP, still sound as vibrant as they did then. Early tracks \"F Kenya RIP\" and \"Burying Stones\" were Technicolor and cheerful enough to get lumped into the glut of summer/beach/etc musings at the time, but they're light years away from your average home electronic Washed Out forgery.For one thing, Highlife's songs are expertly crafted and meticulously assembled. Shaw's a patient, careful technician, putting together songs that are quite obviously fussed over. And yet they aren't fussy: Shaw's vocal style may be reminiscent of another dandyish indie star,  Destroyer's Dan Bejar, but his chiming, bright guitar lines and circular, surefooted rhythms puncture any potential air of pomposity that might otherwise surround his work. The whole effect sounds like Dirty Projectors, if their overriding goal were to entertain rather than impress you.\"F Kenya RIP\" is still likely the highlight, but all three tracks that make up the meat of the record \"Tuareg Dancehall\" is the third are winners. The EP is filled out with an intro, a more desolate closer, and the vinyl comes with a bonus 7\" whose Bside is a cover of Sierra Leone native S.E. Rogie. Throughout, Shaw has honed in and located a sound that weaves dense, complex lines yet feels almost effortless to enjoy. It's a trick that you can't fake or borrow or steal, and in the end it's the trait that Highlife most closely shares with the great West African guitar groups they so obviously admire. "}