{"label":" Cash Money / Universal Motown / Young Money Entertainment","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15773/homepage_large.90c36057.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Lil Wayne","title":"I Am Not a Human Being","text":" Lil Wayne is not back. Not yet. As of this writing, he's due to be released from the Eric M. Taylor Center at Rikers Island on November 4. But even when he switches from inmate #02616544L to Dwayne Carter, free man, will he return as the world beater who stunned us with mixtapes like Dedication 2 and albums like Tha Carter III or will he continue to explore (um) riskier sonic territory รก la Rebirth? And, considering his penchant toward exuberant rhymes and a lifestyle blissfully unaware of the word \"no,\" will we ever see the same Wayne that stomped straight into the camera rapping \"I'd rather be pushin' flowers than to be in the pen sharin' showers,\" in the \"A Milli\" video? On July 22, 2007, just hours before he would be caught with the .40 caliber pistol that would eventually land him in jail, I saw Wayne end a triumphant NYC show at the famed, fancy Beacon Theater by blaring Whitney Houston's \"I Will Always Love You\" through the speakers. That night he was funny and dangerous and unpredictable. So: Even when Wayne ends his eight months of forced containment, will that Wayne really be back?As we prepare to find out, we first get I Am Not a Human Being, an album's worth of material recorded before his jail stint and featuring some tracks originally intended for his proper return LP, Tha Carter IV. The record is supposed to act as a reminder of his existence and a precursor to his freedom. And, since it's a genuine hiphop record with Wayne rapping most of the time, it helps to put his guitartorturing, chokethrottling Rebirth incarnation to rest. I Am Not a Human Being is the latest in a long line of songs and videos Wayne has appeared on since entering Rikers on March 8; we've seen greenscreened versions of him in clips with Eminem, along with his Young Money cohorts Drake and Nicki Minaj. These appearances are meant to show his resiliency and relevancy but oftentimes come off a little depressing since he's usually standing in front of an obviously phony and confined backdrop, the videos emphasize his absence more than anything else. I Am Not a Human Being draws a similarly conflicted response. He's there but he's not there.We get Wayne spouting classic Weezyisms explicit sex, cartoonish gunplay, and allusions to the intricacies of the digestive system abound over atleastdecent original beats, several of which attempt to replicate the spacesnap wallop of his biggest hit, \"Lollipop\". But there's a lingering sense that the rapper is not in top gear; his flow is often slow and static, his wordplay lively yet less energized than what we're now used to. When he says, \"I been fly so long I fell asleep on the fuckin' plane,\" or, \"So far ahead of them, I feel outdated\" in this context, the lines could be taken as a boasts or sighs. And while Wayne was presumably aware of his impending jail term during the recording of some of these tracks, you'd never know it. The most reallife anxiety shown is on the title RunD.M.C.style track, when he admits, \"Still get a stomach ache every time I see cops.\" It's a far cry from his \"A Milli\" invincibility: \"Tell the coppers: 'Hahahaha!'/ You can't get him, you can't stop him.\"There is one distinct upshot. The finest three songs on I Am Not a Human Being all feature the man who has quickly become Wayne's bestever counterpart, Drake. The two rappers' contrasting qualities Wayne is coarse and random and hoarse while Drake is smooth and exact and clear bring out surprising sides of each other. On the sweetsoul track \"With You\", the Pretty Toneystyle beat and Drake's croon draw out Wayne at his most human. Meanwhile, the superherosynth track \"Right Above It\" would seemingly fit well on an idealized Tha Carter IV with Drake rhyming breathless as Wayne handles the AutoHook. The two have teased at a full collaborative album and, considering the tracks here along with worthy past collaborations like \"Miss Me\" and \"I'm Goin' In\" it has the potential to be one of those rare dream projects that lives up to its promise.Speaking of Drake, he had this to say about I Am Not a Human Being when talking to MTV recently: \"I think it's just a lotta Wayne songs that... you know, it's just that pre... it's that pre... it's that stuff that people wanna hear but I think Carter IV is gonna be on another level.\" Not really a stickerready quote. His hesitation is justified this release has neither the conceptual, lasting power of Tha Carter III nor the inspired spontaneity of Wayne's best mixtapes. And since it was recorded before such a traumatic, lifechanging event, it's likely to serve more as a clearinghouse than an indication of what's to come. In one of the more lucid moments in the mustsee documentary The Carter, Wayne then 25 looks into his crystal ball and says, \"[When I'm] 28, 29 you'll be lookin' for a Lil Wayne album to be full of rap the best rap. Full of singin' the best songs, not the best singin'. Full of music. Not just whatever you look for now.\" Wayne has already done better versions of almost every song on I Am Not a Human Being, which was released on his 28th birthday last week. It's not exactly what we're looking for now. "}