{"label":" A Stable Sound / Soul Kitchen","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15778/homepage_large.3d02e18b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Cut Chemist","title":"Sound of the Police","text":" A decent DJ set is, at the very minimum, an exhibition of quality mixing skills put to work on a deep record collection. A good set builds momentum, orchestrates an extended rhythmic narrative, and throws together a couple of surprising juxtapositions along the way. But the great mixes are the ones that do all of that while making some greater statement about all the work they collect together. When Cut Chemist was tapped to create a DJ set in opening for Ethiopian jazz icon Mulatu Astatke back in 2009, he took the opportunity to delve into the sources, influences, and echoes of the Ethiojazz scene that Astatke and others developed in the 1960s and 70s. Sound of the Police named for the tendency for many Ethiojazz recordings to originate from military bands does a lot to contextualize that musical terrain for hiphop heads who might not have delved too deep into its shared roots.This mix runs on an interesting setup: Sound of the Police was assembled and recorded in real time on an unusual oneturntable rig, with a loop pedal and mixer taking the place of a second deck for transitionbuilding purposes. (Think a strippeddown, singleturntable equivalent of Cut Chemist and DJ Shadow's 8deck Hard Sell setup.) It's a deft highwire act, and it allows him to pull off some agile scratching, sonic layering, and selfoverdubbing with original, unearthed vinyl records he likely couldn't find a second copy of. In other words, it has all the careful, handson, asithappens nature of a DJ mix combined with the loopconstructing composition of a beat tape and it's a pretty impressive technical achievement in that sense.That structure's wellserved by a wide itinerary of the African musical diaspora. And while this mix's tendency to work the slow build means it lacks the frenetic, quickcut energy of similarminded beat tapes like Oh No's Dr. No's Ethiopium or Madlib's Beat Konducta in Africa, it does have a continenthopping nature that branches out into longer threads of shared stylistic heritage and blurs lines in a telling way. Heavy as it is on the fluttering horns, glassy guitars, and dense percussion that denotes a certain era of East African music think Buda Musique's excellent, exhaustive Ethiopiques series it frequently pits it in a freeflowing conversation with Nigerian Afrobeat, Cuban percussion, Brazilian Tropicália, and that deathless oldschool bboy break, the Incredible Bongo Band's \"Apache\".That these musical cultural identities flow in and out of each other so freely is what gives Sound of the Police much of its resonance: The evolution of beat music across borders draws distinctions between eras and regions, but they're far from insurmountable. The lack of a fullcredit tracklisting only highlights that: You might catch a moment of organheavy garagefunk or saxdriven, Middle Easterninflected melodies and find yourself unsure as to what that sound's geographical ties might be. And while not actually knowing the source might feel like the side effect of the old DJ tradition of never revealing where your breaks come from, it also gives this mix a purpose: Sometimes when you don't know the origin of a piece of music, you have no preconceptions to grab onto and you gravitate instead toward the things you most immediately recognize as familiar. Sound of the Police acknowledges its roots, but the common language of the beat is what truly drives it. "}