{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15777/homepage_large.2cc527b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liz Colville","artist":"Sisters","title":"Ghost Fits","text":" Sisters Aaron Pfannebecker on vocals and guitar and Matt Conboy on drums and keys are entrenched in Brooklyn's DIY scene. Conboy cofounded Williamsburg's Death By Audio venue, where the band found its footing playing impromptu hallway sets between regularly scheduled programming. The band eventually hit on a sound built on two elements: noise and hooks. Supported by engineer Jeremy Scott (Vivian Girls, Woods, These Are Powers), the two members make as much noise on Ghost Fits as a band three times its size. The songs can go beyond surface pleasures thanks to Conboy's ferocious rhythms and Pfannebecker's voice, which combines a sweet, boyish delivery with occasional hiccups, whines, and other charming imperfections. Between those two elements sits Pfannebecker's guitar, which he uses to brandish a handful of diverse textures.Sisters may be married to noise (their name is a nod to Sonic Youth's 1987 album, Sister), but their brand of it is friendly and oftentimes poppy. Ghost Fits is full of highly rhythmic, fastpaced songs made of staticky chord shifts and halfasleep vocals. Things get intriguing when the band pulls in new textures and sounds, like the gurgling, basslike chord progressions on \"Visions\", the flanging, feedbackheavy \"Ghost Fits\", \"Wake Me Up\", and \"Sky\", and the acoustic guitar paired with a xylophone on the upbeat, fun \"Highway Scratch\". But these moments of adventure are fleeting, and the persistent noise in its place starts to sound monotonous.Part of the problem lies in the disconnect between Pfannebecker's lackadaisical vocal delivery and the relentless instrumentation, as if playing were so physically exertive that the vocals become an afterthought. But in place of sheer power, the singer employs a couple of interesting techniques: on standout \"Highway Scratch\", he detunes his vocals slightly, sliding down half a note for emphatic effect (the song also features some memorable lines, and Pfannebecker seems to know it, yelping passionately for the first and last time on the album: \"Make up something to come true/ Set it free/ Before it breaks in two.\" If only this happened more often.) On \"Synesthesia\" he slices off certain lyrics to give them a punky, staccato bite, and he uses a similar singspeak technique across the album. But there is a lot of verbal shrugging, and it doesn't come across as interestingly as the band might have hoped: It can render songs patchy and unhinged, especially if the songs don't go beyond vague melodies and percussive acrobatics.There is momentum behind every song on Ghost Fits, but momentum is different from drive. Sisters are clearly working within the framework of contemporaries like No Age, Wavves, and Women, but this debut lacks bravado: a willingness to make each song memorable and distinctive, through, say, cacophony, unique vocal delivery, or experimentation with effects all three of which Sisters only dabble in. The band achieves some success by dividing its time between catchy pop and the feedbackheavy rock of the previously mentioned acts, but too often the distance between the two styles feels vast and uneventful in Sisters' hands. "}