{"label":" Decon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15779/homepage_large.7bb93895.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Gangrene","title":"Gutter Water","text":" About four years ago, I sat down with two big rap producers, Just Blaze and the Alchemist, at Baseline Studios, the old RocaFella stomping grounds, a sinceshuttered hive of mainstream rap dominance. At the time, the two producers were lamenting the decline of the cinematic NYC rap they'd both made their names cranking out. But Alchemist talked with a sense of genuine excitement and wonder about a backpackrap universe that still sounded pretty new to him: \"Not to dis them, but a lot of that shit is kind of weird. But the world that they're repping, that's the world that I want to be a part of.\" These days, Alc still has a foot in whatever's left of the mainstream rap world; he produced \"You Ain't Got Nuthin\", probably the hardest track on Lil Wayne's gazillionselling Tha Carter III, and he DJed a recent run of Eminem stadium shows. But he's also very much a part of that underground world he was talking about. And now he's teamed up with the stalwart Stones Throw rapper/producer Oh No to form the duo Gangrene and crank out a decidedly weird little record.Alchemist is probably still bestknown for crafting gutpunch streetrap anthems for guys like Mobb Deep and Jadakiss, but his earlydecade aesthetic is almost entirely gone from Gutter Water. Instead, he's launched himself into the ADD cratedigging style best exemplified by Oh No's older brother Madlib. The tracks on Gutter Water sputter and crackle and warp, rarely settling into a comfortable thump. Horns and strings and harps all seemingly drawn from moldy thriftshop muzak platters always circle whatever groove the drums conjure, but the two producers rarely let them fall into the pocket. Tracks rarely come with choruses, and when those choruses are there, they're awkward enough that you wish they weren't. This is a mood piece. There's a lot of texture at work here, and there would be more if the duo didn't end nearly every track by dissolving into a samplecollage of cheesedout film dialogue and disembodied newsanchor voices.Even if they're hell on the album's sustained momentum, those collages do pound home the album's theme: disease, squalor, infection. (One news report about people swimming in open sewage makes me want to gag every time.) But this isn't an album about the need for global health reform; the thematic stuff is there to remind you that you're dealing with two people totally uninterested in meeting you halfway. Alchemist even takes the time to remind us that he's not a \"ringtone rapper,\" a term I haven't heard in a while. (Alc must not have got the memo that skinnyjeans rappers are everyone's favorite threat to hiphop culture these days.)As rappers, Alc and Oh are both perfectly decent but never transcendent. Oh has a solidly loping delivery, and Alc has a raspy offbeat thing that's less technically sound but more distinctive. And Alc has a way with perfectly ridiculous, kind of dumb punchlines that nonetheless lodge themselves in your memory: \"Speed on and get peed on,\" \"Hopping out the trashcan like Oscar the Grouch,\" \"I stay high like pussy on a giraffe is.\" Plenty of guests stop by, but Raekwon notwithstanding, most of them sit firmly in a willfully hardheaded West Coast underground scene: Planet Asia, Evidence, Roc C. Some of them, like Guilty Simpson, work great with the kinds of beats they're given, but nobody dazzles.But the rapping on Gutter Water is almost beside the point. Oh and Alc are producers first, and Gutter Water would work nearly as well as an instrumental album. And together, they've created a messy, impressive pileup of halfbroken piano loops and dense, clattery drum programming. It's a hazy, stoned piece of work, an expansive extended headnod, everything it sets out to be. "}