{"label":" IAMSOUND","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15660/homepage_large.69f08b72.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Salem","title":"King Night","text":" Salem trade in apathy. In an article for Butt magazine last year, band member John Holland copped to a past lifestyle of heavy drug use and teenage prostitution then he offered the interviewer some speed. The band was featured in The New York Times Arts section's fall preview this year, but one member couldn't be bothered to wake up on time for the interview. When Times writer Ben Ratliff pressed the band on the lyrics to early single \"Trapdoor\", Holland replied, \"It doesn't really matter to me whether people know what the lyrics are or not.\" Even when XLR8R's Brandon Ivers recently asked Salem about their muchbloggedabout disaster of a FADER Fort appearance at last year's SXSW a performance that could be featured in the dictionary as the definition of \"not giving a shit\" band members Heather Marlatt and Jack Donoghue claimed not to have seen the video, while Holland later stated about the band's live presence, \"I don't even care. I totally don't.\"So it's safe to say that Salem aren't concerned that the sloweddown, culturally mishmashed electronic music on their debut, King Night referred to by some as witch house, drag, or haunted house has its share of supporters and detractors alike, and has inspired endless arguments about authenticity, cultural sensitivity, and whether \"witch house\" is a pretty stupid fucking name for a genre, anyway. But when you actually listen to King Night, it's easy to be amazed that these dickheads made a record so interesting and sonically detailed. Their early original material and Gucci Mane remixes spawned a legion of imitators who attempted to replicate the formula with shoddy craftsmanship; King Night, accordingly, finds Salem pushing their sound far enough to create artistic distance from the rest of the pack.They pull this off mostly by way of increased fidelity, which, thanks to the mixing talents of Dave Sardy  (  Marilyn  Manson,  Oasis), teases the sonic depth out of these songs. The title track didn't need its \"O Holy Night\"lifted melody to sound like it was recorded in an Austrian cathedral, but there's that chorus, their voices being abused by the debris launched in the air by the track's lowend explosions. Album centerpiece and highlight \"Release Da Boar\" starts out with a citystreet pulse and midnight tones, and slowly opens to reveal a brutally beautiful void where Marlatt's deadeyed vocals hover in an amniotic haze. Even \"Redlights\" aka the \"FADER Fort YouTube Video Song\" is lent a spacey atmosphere, its slow burn not too far off from vintage Slumberland noise pop.Despite what some say, this is music, and it's music made by people with wideranging tastes. The aforementioned Slumberland similarity is only one of the genre signifiers employed during the course of King Night, as the band traffics in crawledout raverecalling synth lines (\"Asia\"), lowriding Houston lean (\"Sick\"), grimeflecked triphop (\"Trapdoor\"), and the hollow, thudding rhythms of juke and footwork (\"Hound\"), just to name a few. That they're able to incorporate these disparate sounds in a recognizable fashion proves their ability; the fact that, through it all, Salem still sound like themselves and no one else is a testament to their vision.And if you don't think Salem have done something impressive here? That's okay. Honestly and this gets lost in the hype cycle that most freshsounding new acts get sucked into these days this music is not for everyone. Not because of its \"Werewolf bar mitzvah\" affectations, but because it's just not the easiest thing to bump in your headspace. Some will take issue with the EQ'dtoshit click tracks, or the sheer noise that's being produced here. Personally, I'm not a fan of the pitcheddown, choppedandscrewed rapping that pops up periodically not because of the arguable minstrelsy, but because I just think it's an aesthetically ugly addon this music could do without.However, considering that snatches of decipherable lyrics reveal threats of rape and murder, as well as excessive use of the word \"bitch,\" maybe we're better off not knowing what they're saying, regardless of how they go about it. These are the contradictions you run into when inhabiting the world of King Night. And while it's possible that discussi  on of these contradictions might end up outlasting the music itself, it's hard to deny that the group has carved out an original and compelling niche.Editor's Note: This review contains a list of the various names that have been used to describe the music of SALEM and/or other similar artists, among them \"drag\" and \"witch house.\" It originally also listed \"rape gaze\", a term coined by Michigan band CREEP, as formerly listed on their MySpace and reported in the New York Press. The band today disowned the phrase and will no longer be using it, expressing to The Village Voice, they \"would never want to advocate sexual violence against any human being. It was a play on words which we never expected to be used as an actual genre.\" "}