{"label":" The Pack Musick","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15780/homepage_large.1c0fcf96.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"The Pack","title":"Wolfpack Party","text":" Bestknown for their 2006 West Coast snap variation \"Vans\", the Pack took a couple years off before releasing a followup to their debut album. In the intervening time, the Pack's producer, Young L, has developed into a formidable talent, and rapper Lil B has overshadowed the group that spawned him. Lil B feels like a nonfactor here, since Wolfpack Party bears no resemblance to the memegenerating phenomenon that is Lil B the solo artist. The album works mainly as a business card for Young L, mixed with a love letter to some of the more grating elements of late00s club music. Oh yeah, and most of the rapping is pretty dull.There are a few notable tracks on Wolfpack Party, the best of which is \"Bend That Corner\" featuring Husalah, one of West Coast rap's most charismatic and undervalued performers. Unfortunately, his scenestealing verse draws immediate attention to the album's biggest weakness a lack of vibrant rap performances. It reminds listeners how generally vapid the rappers in the Pack are and not just topically, but stylistically. It's a struggle to recall a creative lyrical moment on the entire record that doesn't include Husalah's reference to his \"'73 chariot.\"Still, Young L is a force to be reckoned with, having developed a personal touch that makes his tracks more readily identifiable. His beats are taut, shuddering constructs, relying on novel use of fresh and abrasive sounds, and he creates a good balance of creativity meeting songcraft. By contrast, the Cataracts, who produce most of the remaining cuts, channel 2007era L.A. club music for inspiration (surprisingly, Lindsey Lohan coDJ Steve Aoki reportedly makes a partial production appearance alongside Young L, rather than the Cataracts, on \"Dance Floor\"). The production duo provides a cheesier party vibe that provides balance to an otherwise \"banger\"heavy record, but their lack of craft and overreliance on 00s dancerap clichés are largely to blame for the record's more embarrassing moments, from the trancerap title track to \"Sex on the Beach\" the less said, the better.As a beatmaker's business card, Wolfpack Party makes a great case for Young L's rising profile. There's a dynamic energy to his production that few other producers can harness. But as a whole, the harder Wolfpack Party tries to be a fun party record, the more forced it feels. And as solid as L's beats are, they can't stand up on their own. Here's hoping his future collaborators are on his level. "}