{"label":" Manifesto","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1459/homepage_large.cc0db8d3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Cinerama","title":"Torino","text":" You know, sex in our superculture could use some demystification. Folks are constantly subjected to the infantilizing peekaboo juxtapositions of advertisements (hot, the designer handbag covers her boobs!), the choreographed passion and streamlined intercourse of film and TV (shucks, it all sort of falls into place if you buy silk sheets!), the vapid posturing and exaggerations of radio (you're the one I love forever which makes everything in this horrible world alright and, hey, plus, do me!). I know it's in our programming, but I had this flimsy theory that the megapull of loinworship might be made more subtle if sex wasn't presented as a balletic panacea. We might not have to witness such heartbreaking sights as: the desperation conveyed in the epidemic of people donning hoochiewear to check the mail, old men overfilming their niece's birthday parties, or overweight Christians glaring passively at the disingenuous porn of reality TV. Was a time I'd implicate Cinerama's David Gedge in the conspiracy to keep us drooldangling and humphoping via vagueness and broad strokes. During his stint as the leader of criminally unsung polishrockers The Wedding Present, and on his last two albums fronting Cinerama, he's been quite the advocate of the booty = bliss equation, give or take the occasional nod to the pain of longing or the opportunity cost of a breakup. But on Torino, Cinerama's blaringest and best release, Gedge yanks off the softfocus lens and offers sexual specifics. This honesty should be a balm for anyone traumatized by lessthanparadisiacal romance with actual consequences: wait, you mean lust can be detrimentally consuming? People's parts can intrudingly misalign? Menstruation's real? The side effects of hayrolling might include cretinous jealousy? Birds can still shit on you out by the pool, even if you're midcuddle? Then why don't car alarms go off outside the conjugal windows in Meg Ryan movies? Alas, prolonged exposure to le nittre grittre didn't save Gedge from his addiction. In the course of compiling all of his detailed research, he has become his subject's hostage. Wasn't it Nietzsche who said that if you stare too long at genitals, they also stare back into you? Thankfully, Gedge's habit doesn't prevent him from concocting a stellar, if somewhat singleminded, album. The lyrics will reduce you to thinking the cover art is not just dangerously close to Kent's Isola, but that it's some sort of nipply, or priapic, or orgasmic visual suggestion. \"And When She Was Bad\" kicks the album off with the query, \"If he's only a nobody, then why does he stare at your breasts?\" The equally noncircuitous but kinkier \"Two Girls\" (as in \"at the same time\") is about someone who and this is a sampling of Gedge's words chokes, provokes, eats, defeats, charms, harms, fights, delights, bites, excites, annoys, destroys, mocks, shocks, hates, and devastates him. \"Estrella\" deals with punishing a mate, via sleaziness and \"slight adultery,\" into breaking up with him. \"Cat Girl Tights\" involves cat girl tights. The violins and Bona Dragness of the brief \"Airborne\" provide a moment of emotional release, but oh snap it was just a segue to \"Quick, Before It Melts\" which never leaves the smutgutter after this opening: \"When you said I've got nothing on beneath this dress, that was such good flirting/ I usually find such candidness disconcerting.\" Sure you do; the next line, she adds: \"I don't wear underwear because it leaves a stripe.\" Amid these initial onenight standings, you'll notice that into the clean and lush Cinerama mix of strings, horns, harpsichords, flutes, fifes, and keyboards, a fair amount of actual rock chops has been added. These amendments aren't entirely mannered; rather than introduce themselves by saying, \"Hello, my name is Raaah and I'll be your guitar blast today,\" these abrupt bursts sometimes craftily preceded by a teensy xylophone bridge will send you diving for the volume knob. And don't commit the O'Rourke Fallacy and attribute the stomping, turbulent riffage to Monsieur Albini's presence he's been working with Gedge since the late 80s. Anyhow, the Albini on deck here is a different, more attentive one than the Corky O'Whamkaboom persona he's generated of late. Underproducing overproduction, he captures the elegant noise here as deftly as he drew Will Oldham out of his warble on Viva Last Blues. \"Tie Me Up\" is an almost impolitic celebration of being owned and enslaved, complete with an overdone deadstop at which Gedge whispers, \"I'll do it,\" and a symphonic crescendo at which he yells, \"I cried your name and then I came.\" By the time the song is over, you might be plugging your ears and defensively humming Weezer's \"Tired of Sex,\" or at least shouting, \"I get it, already.\" But you've still got to survive the catchy, clavierseasoned \"Close Up\" whose speaker demands to be slowly told and retold about his partner's affair, the bras being undone, the \"touching you there,\" the \"making you come.\" And you'll feel used by the opening couplet of \"Starry Eyed\": \"Why have you locked the bathroom door/ It's not as if I haven't seen you piss a thousand times before.\" You know you're in love when a grueling lifetime of toiletshyness dissipates into team spirit. If any of those excerpts triggered a blush, a teehee, a \"don't go there!\" a \"too much information!\" or \"damn, that's raunchier than N.E.R.D.!\" then memorize this fun fact: writer Marcel Proust got off on cursing at, and spitting on, photographs of his mother. So you watch who you're calling perverse. Besides, Gedge doesn't leave you worrying about how he manages to stumble to the loo in the morning with his, apparently daily, sore sexankles. There's plenty else to appreciate on Torino. Gedge's gametograting fey factor prevents him from ever coming across like a salacious neighbor or bombastic Seducifer. The Southpaw Grammar guitar and whirlwind sound effect of \"Starry Eyed\" continues to acknowledge the Moz in the tradition of Cinerama's cover of the Smiths' \"London.\" Throughout the album gongs, bells, and chimes sneak in. Sally Murrell's oncefrequent callandresponse backing vocals are now just bops and ahh's sprinkled on like pepper; you might think someone behind you in the room joined the show for a second. There's a surfy track, and forgoneconclusion spaghetti western touches. Huge slices of French cheese are processed with reverent seriousness. And right when the bedcentric melodrama approaches artlessness and unbearability, the album is interrupted with a snippet of studio banter that reminds the listener of the pedestrian aspects of preparing a disc about peach juice running down the face of the girl with whom the speaker just made love by the lake: the bandmembers call headphones \"cans\" and laughingly tell Albini that they need to hear that last twenty seconds again, fearing that they got \"carried away\" and flubbed the music. Justify the rating, you ask? What elevated this CD beyond its firstlisten glass ceiling of merely sufficing 7.8dom? A: Timing. The conscious throwback of Britpop's stately rumble sounds tremendous after long spells with hardscrabble Americana and laborintensive Experimentia. Anyone who ever Morrisseytwirled a hosepipe on their provider's patio as a combustible teen will welcome this effort. Gedge seems oblivious to the fact that all the gushing critics and cliquey consumers are crowding the 60s, 70s, and 80s lounges, leaving him to hog the stage in the rememberthe90s room. B: Legacy fulfillment. How can he still have this much energy? What were you doing in 1989? I was trying to rig up a homemade Flavor Flav clocklace. Gedge was covering a obscure band named Pavement. Something about a box elder or something. C: \"Health and Efficiency.\" What a pop closer. The song begins and ends with sadly swooning chords played over what I assume is a 'field recording' that runs counter to the entire album's ohhithere pose. City noise, squeaking brakes, and the beeps of a truck in reverse can be heard, along with conversation that includes a man holding forth about 78s, Motown, his kids, and how \"we've become a very cold society.\" The drums perfectly, lazily conceal the epic wail of distortion that arrives later, accompanied by a nervy, trilly violin. The lyrics finally fess up to regret and loss, and the listener is saved by one warmly reverbed note that ends the song right before you've closed the garage on your monoxide party. "}