{"label":" Dog W/A Bone","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15783/homepage_large.24338a51.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Christian Marclay","title":"Graffiti Composition","text":" Christian Marclay is best known as an experimental turntabilist, and for collaborations with John Zorn, Lee Ranaldo, Okkyung Lee, and Elliott Sharp, among others. But he's more a conceptual artist, reaching beyond music into photography, video, collage, installation, and curation. Through these varied pursuits, he's built an impressive oeuvre, recently celebrated in wideranging threemonth exhibition at New York's Whitney Museum. The downside is that, because his art is so ideaheavy, his records can be more interesting to think about than to listen to.Take his most famous album, 1985's Record Without a Cover, fascinating mostly due to its lack of sleeve, which meant that accumulated scratches and debris would make it sound different every time it was played. To be fair, Marclay's discography isn't all abstract. His turntable and samplebased records can be entertaining 1989's More Encores features choppedup collages of Johann Strauss, Louis Armstrong, and Jimi Hendrix, and 1997's hypercut Records has the cartoonish appeal of Carl Stalling and Raymond Scott. But his latest, Graffiti Composition, falls on the more overtly conceptual side, and as a musical experience it's uneven.The concept behind it goes like this: In 1996, Marclay posted blank music sheets around the streets of Berlin, then returned to photograph them after they had been torn, smudged, and covered with graffiti. 150 of those photos were selected to form an openended graphical \"score\" the kind without any traditional notes or time signatures. In 2006, that score was given to Elliott Sharp to arrange and conduct for a single performance. The resulting recording is as much a Sharp album as it is a Marclay one, since Marclay doesn't actually play on it himself.Which is not to say that the unevenness of Graffiti Composition is Sharp's fault. He assembled a strong lineup of guitarists for the event including Ranaldo, Living Colour's Vernon Reid, and Mary Halvorson and directed them into a busy mélange of sounds. Drop your digital needle anywhere among the six tracks, and you'll find something interesting a tearing note cluster, a thick swath of distortion, a beatific chord. But over 40 minutes, the tonal range of this ensemble turns out to be narrow, and their sounds blur together. Even abrupt shifts in volume feel smooth and unsurprising.More importantly, Graffiti Composition rarely coheres into something larger than a collection of sonic events. Of course, you can't expect a onetime improvised concert based on an abstract score to produce some kind of linear narrative. But even the most abstract record should possess a memorable cohesion if it's to reward repeated listens. Here, the sounds are often so unconnected, they could be rearranged at random and it would be hard to tell the difference. Perhaps Graffiti Composition would've been best left as a hadtobethere event, memories of which wouldn't be dulled by the harsh light of repetition. As an album to be enjoyed over and over rather than admired once, its impact is fleeting. "}