{"label":" Sacred Bones","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15785/homepage_large.05152079.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Zola Jesus","title":"Valusia EP","text":" By all accounts, the last thing Zola Jesus' new EP should feel like is a victory lap. After throwing her hat in the nugoth ring with last year's debut fulllength, The Spoils, Valusia comes as the third release Nika Roza Danilova has given us this year two EPs plus a noisy collaboration with LA Vampires. Thankfully, Zola Jesus here return to the best of those records, the Stridulum EP, which found the band pushing for something both forceful and accessible; Valusia follows the same formula, upping the emotional ante with stirring pop ballads and mascarasmeared anthems. All this, and it only accounts for four of the 10 new songs we've heard from her in 2010. For someone who is already having one hell of a year (she also just completed her undergraduate degree and turned 21), you wouldn't suspect that the addition of those four songs three of which have already appeared on an expanded, importonly edition of Stridulum would make much of a difference. But here we are.Valusia kicks in the door with a pair of tracks that rank among her most dynamic. Opener \"Poor Animal\" ratchets up the intensity, taking a simple 4/4 drumbeat and riding it over it aching synths and a shimmering final act where a single violin (courtesy of Cult of Youth's Christiana Key) leads the driving build. It's a triumphant first impression, illuminated by Danilova's tideshifting wail. \"Tower\" can't quite outmuscle \"Poor Animal\" (and not for lack of trying), but it more clearly demonstrates where Danilova sees herself right now. Played out like part of a tortured Rapunzel fantasy, its industrial lurch and rising, orchestral synths are sapped of their charge only when backdropped against her towering vocal. Dropping everything but a spare drum, she sings, \"And it feels like I'm the only one.\" This isn't the first time Danilova has explored feelings of isolation, but here it's a striking, confusing moment: How could someone who sounds like she has a fucking army behind her feel so alone?The two ballads that make up the rest of Valusia further explore that tumult, with Danilova left with more questions than answers. On the Zippofriendly \"Sea Talk\", she's tired and unable to provide someone with what they need; on the aching, candelabralit piano piece \"Lightsick\", she's left wondering what happens \"when the lights go out on us.\" It's unclear if the question is philosophical, or in the romantic sense, far more literal. What is clear is how fragile and intimate it all sounds, and what rich, elegant pop songs these songs all prove to be. "}