{"label":" Fiction","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15801/homepage_large.ef90dcdb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"A Band of Bees","title":"Every Step's a Yes","text":" I wouldn't say that A Band of Bees (or as they're known everywhere but the U.S., the Bees) have ever been an aggressive band, but their modern takes on psychedelia have often had a fair amount of thump to them. Their last album, 2007's Octopus, got downright funky in places, and their reggae flourishes have always seemed to stem from an actual appreciation for the genre rather than some association with stoner culture. Their 2002 cover of Os Mutantes' \"A Minha Menina\" is about as ragged as they've ever been.But even by their standards, Every Step's a Yes is unusually mellow and spacedout. The Tropicália of that Os Mutantes cover has since become a more prominent element of their sound. Band leader Paul Butler, having spent time away in the Amazon and working with Devendra Banhart, seems to have internalized the feel of bossa nova and samba more than the actual rhythms and sounds, though these songs showcase a gentle melodicism as akin to Gilberto Gil as it is to Pink Floyd's \"Arnold Layne\". I guess the simplest term for it would be psychfolk.The band is still a sixpiece, but unlike on the last album, they don't sound that big everybody pulls back here behind the gauzy vocal harmonies, quiet organ blending with acoustic strumming, and a lot of laidback drumming. Even the webonly single, \"Silver Line\", is a whisper of a song that doesn't seem likely to grab a lot of nonfans (it's just not that hooky), but it nicely distills their pastoral vibe. The standout of the album is \"Winter Rose\", which opens with a haunting guitar part reminiscent of Bembeya Jazz's slowburning sixstring fireworks, before it slips easily into a reggaeish rhythm. Horns answer Butler's lead vocal with dubbedout bursts of melody. It's psychedelic, but not in an obvious or overthehead way.The little flourishes of sitar on \"I Really Need Love\" are more overthehead, but for the most part their pretty psychfolk works. The album closes with its most ebullient track, \"Gaia\", a sort of mariachi samba whose lead guitar part recalls Crosby Stills & Nash's \"Dark Star\". It's ultimately more memorable for the way it combines its sounds than for its songwriting, which is a criticism that applies to a fair amount of the record. "}