{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15808/homepage_large.a2516615.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Cotton Jones","title":"Tall Hours in the Glowstream","text":" Michael Nau of Cotton Jones sounds like he's aged 40 years since his tenure as the frontman of Page France. That band pushed his boyish vocals frontandcenter, most notably on 2005's Hello, Dear Wind, and he sang almosthushed heartonsleeve lyrics about love, loss, and devotion. If the Michael Nau of Page France was the young man immersed in wideeyed wonder while taking in everything around him, the Cotton Jones iteration of the same person proves to be wiserbutwearier, stricken with a sense of longing and regret even when singing lines like, \"How sweet it is to roll up on your floor.\"The directness that once defined Page France's music (and Paranoid Cocoon, Nau's first album under the Cotton Jones moniker) is brought into more atmospheric heights on Tall Hours in the Glowstream, while the lyrics shift from proclamations and heartwarming imagery to the uncertainty of love. On opener \"Sail of the Silver Morning\", Nau's dusky, southerntinged vocals (along with those of covocalist Whitney McGraw) fit snugly atop the otherworldly doowop shuffle, complete with ethereal background humming cloaked in reverb. \"If there was a path your feet could follow, where in the world would it lead?\" sings Nau on \"More Songs for Margaret\" in a place where his own legs seem far too tired to carry him any farther. Toward the end of each verse, with the float and drift of blissedout keyboards and distant tambourine, Nau intones, \"Always the mornings keep coming onto me.\" Even when found in the occasional bright spot, even when realizing that his days are far from over, still Nau can't help but sound wistful and downtrodden.This is apparent on songs like \"Man Climbs Out of the Winter\", where Nau's wistfulness is carried through the clouds by softly strummed acoustic guitar and the faint whine of pedal steel, evoking the country & western greats of yesteryear. The romanticism of a bygone era also permeates through songs like \"Place at the End of the Street\" and instrumental \"Soft Mountain Shake\". As a whole, Tall Hours in the Glowstream sounds like classic country music filtered through a dreampop haze, a glittery summer night somewhere below the MasonDixon Line, where the sky is filled with fireflies and bright stars. The blurry sound drifts through the music and seeps its way into the lyrics, as much of the album is steeped in uncertainty, Nau's footing never steady enough to see a bold, clear image as he had in his Page France days. Closing track \"No Things I Need (Like Some Time Ago)\" finds Nau and McGraw at the center of a lilting duet, walking handinhand and \"singing sad songs backwards\" as they head to the downtown of an unspecified city. Even with such an optimistic ending to a work of deep longing, it sounds like Nau is slightly remorseful to leave where he is in search for something better. "}