{"label":" Lefse","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15810/homepage_large.f5ce0308.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Banjo or Freakout","title":"Way Slow Volume One","text":" Londonbased bedroom pop artist Banjo or Freakout's Way Slow Volume One marks the first entry in Lefse Records' new Way Slow series, described by the label as an unconventional approach to recordmaking that encourages \"instrumentals, covers, collaborations, wacky kids' tunes, spoken word [and] tracks that never made it to albums.\" Reminiscent of Konkurrent's In the Fish Tank series, Way Slow (which will feature the likes of Ganglians and Sonny and the Sunsets' Sonny Smith in the near future) seems like a smart way to accommodate diehard fans and allow artists to indulge in fringe fantasies. So it's a little disappointing that Lefse kicks things off with a wishywashy handful of tracks from a stilldeveloping and emerging artist.Basically, it's hard to get into the embryonic noodlings of an artist that we don't even know all that well yet. After releasing a few leftfield covers by the likes of Radiohead and Burial online, Banjo or Freakout (aka Alessio Natalizia) has one EP and a handful of original tracks to his name, most of which feel rooted to the ghosted dreampop sketches that appear here. The problem is, as good as a few of them were, even his previous releases sound underdeveloped. Compared to this batch though, they sound downright accomplished. And at a time when there's so much uninformed bedroom music going around, the last thing you should be considering is taking a step backwards.This incarnation of Banjo or Freakout seems most interested in taking intimate, simple acoustic songs and obstructing them with aquatic atmospheres, spare percussion, and plenty of delay. With some of his more ambitious work (like those oddball covers), Natalizia was often able to create some compelling, otherworldly music something that would've been a perfect fit for a project like Way Slow. But instead of contributing something surprising or irreverent (\"Street Runners\" comes close), most of these auxiliary details just clutter what are otherwise sleepy coffeehouse strummers.There's some wisdom in keeping things simple here. Banjo or Freakout's best song to date, \"Upside Down\", was a restrained, accessible piece that showed us what Natalizia was capable of when a more direct approach was taken (never mind there's a similar sounding but lesser version here in \"75\"). But we also know what Natalizia is capable of when he lets his freak flag fly a little, and with so much creative flexibility at his disposal, wouldn't this have been a perfect time to do it? Maybe one day we'll look back at these songs with a different kind of perspective after Banjo or Freakout has taken the time to develop. Until then, Volume One feels not only premature, but a little presumptuous. "}