{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15798/homepage_large.fb563680.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Matador at 21","text":" For more than 20 years, Matador has been at the forefront of a thorny, heavy, heady crop of American indie rock. And throughout that time, the label has never forgotten the \"rock\" part. That's on the face of it an obvious statement, but much of what reaches indie fans these days isn't or doesn't rock: It's bedroom electronics, it's folk, it's born out of underground disco, or indie pop, or synthpop, or it's what once would have been called new wave or classic rock. No disrespect to other labels, but I couldn't imagine Matador releasing records by, say, Iron & Wine. Instead, they're the large indie who signed Jay Reatard, Fucked Up, and Times New Viking; the label who welcomed oldschool rockers Ted Leo and Sonic Youth back into its fold; the label whose rising folkie star is an emotionally raw and brave performer like Perfume Genius, who is never going to get a song in a Previa ad. Sure, they acquired an imprint, True Panther, that gathers some of the best of the bloggier end of indie Balearic synthpoppers Delorean, or California indie pop band Girls. But Matador proper still keeps one foot planted in noisy rock.Considering the way indie has grown up in the past few decades, it made a weird kind of sense that Matador celebrated its 21st birthday with a series of onceinalifetimes shows in Vegas. They're also giving back to fans, as well as a handful of charities, with this affordable, limitededition 6xCD box set: five discs of the best of Matador and a sixth disc of live performances, mostly of Pavement (they also throw in some poker chips.) The set is arranged chronologically, and its compilers make no qualms about where the label was at each stage of the box, naming each disc after the relative fortunes of Matador at the time. In short, the first disc is how the label started; the second is the codification of indie rock itself; the third finds it branching out to a wider range of sounds; the fourth is a retreat back to its wheelhouse, in time for the Internet to help push indie rock toward its peak commercial potential; and the fifth is where Matador is today.Interestingly, it's the middle period that stands out immediately: It was a relatively dark time for Matador, if only because they were for once pointing toward the future rather than setting the agenda for the present. The disc starts with Boards of Canada, a group so above its likeminded peers it made them almost irrelevant. It goes on to forays into hiphop (Arsonists, Large Professor), as well as other spheres of eventually quite trendy electronic music: the protomicrohouse of Burger/Ink, Pole's dubby minimalism, Matmos' conceptual experimentalism. In the end this stuff never became Matador's defining sound and it wasn't anywhere as close to a part of the indie conversation then as it is now but you can't fault the label's instincts. Even the guitar artists here, for the most part, were ahead of or helped set prevailing trends: Belle and Sebastian, certainly their songsmithery, collectivism, and classicism were oddly out of step at the time but have become a defining strain of 21st century independent music. Spoon as well, with their tight rhythms and love of postpunk already lockstep in place. Even Yo La Tengo and Pavement sound here more like 2000s indie than stuff from the 90s.On either side of those supposedly lost years, Matador built from the ground up the defining sounds of first the 1990s and then the 2000s in credible guitar rock. The first go around, the label came to the fore as an alternative to the selfparody of mid90s altrock. Much of Disc One here is a continuation of the more distorted, punkrooted sounds of SST or Homestead or Touch & Go landmark noisepop songs like Teenage Fanclub's \"Everything Flows\" and Superchunk's \"Slack Motherfucker\" alongside more abrasive, tangled work from Unrest, Thinking Fellers Union Local 282, or Dustdevils. Appropriately it ends with the group whose ramshackle songs would do more to codify the loose smirk of 90s indie rock than any other, Pavement.By Disc Two, though they'd likely be loathe to admit it, Matador were sort of drafting off alternative rock, with most of their biggest artists Pavement, Liz Phair, Yo La Tengo, Guided by Voices, Jon Spencer Blues Explosion, Pizzicato Five, Helium working the margins of the majorlabel crossover. These bands played Lollapaloozas, though mostly on side stages, and made appearances on MTV, though primarily on \"120 Minutes\". When curious kids became tired of alt rock and what it quickly devolved into, it didn't take a lot of digging for them to find Matador bands next particularly since through some of these years, Capitol Records briefly owned a 49% share of the label.It helped naturally that this group of artists would encompass a deceptively wide range of styles and viewpoints under the banner of independent rock. None of them were part of a trend or subgenre per se, unless \"lofi\" actually counts. None were espousing a particular ethos, or particular idea. They were quite simply talented, singular artists given the creative freedom to express themselves by a label that associated ambition with artistry rather than commercialism. In that way, Matador defined the bigtent ethos of 2000s indie by not having an ethos at all: Unlike most big indie labels of the late 1980s and early 1990s, Matador was never tied to a specific movement or sound of geographical location.In the early 2000s, the label underwent a second revolution. Part of it coincided with a shift in indie sensibilities: After a few years in which lessrockrooted influences became popular and chic (krautrock, Tropicália, dub, exotica, and jazz among them), independent music returned to the guitar, this time embracing a more populist set of bands now easily located via the Internet, for good or bad. Matador responded with Interpol, the New Pornographers, and eventually Shearwater and Brightblack Morning Light. Nineties holdovers B&S, Mogwai, and Cat Power became bigger stars, a new crop of frontline Matador artists following the various fates of Pavement, Liz Phair, and Guided by Voices. Disc Five outlines the now of the label the aforementioned place where TNV settles next to Delorean and Perfume Genius.Tellingly, the Matador at 21 set has no designs on being a collection of the label's best songs; instead, it's more like an oral history messy and haphazard, with imperfectly remembered details. Matador would likely tell the story a little bit differently each time it attempted, and in that way it feels as good a document of the past 20 years of indie rock as you could create. There is no central thrust or cozy center. These songs didn't chart. They weren't often agreed upon. They didn't define their times for large numbers of people. They were shared experiences, but in small ways between friends, between a listener and his or her record collection, between groups of strangers at small club shows. Sometimes the listener and artist even enjoyed the experience together. These songs represent dozens of potential inroads and tributaries into and through an illdefined, oftenchanging musical world that over the past 21 years you might not have known existed unless you stumbled on them via a wellcurated record store, or an older brother's friend, or college radio, or a mixtape from a friend or lover, or Spin or Puncture or Melody Maker, or a website or a blog. And in that sense there is no single way, or best way, to tell the story. The important thing, as always, is in the telling itself. "}