{"label":" Season of Mist","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15800/homepage_large.d3a0b9c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Watain","title":"Lawless Darkness","text":" The messy Norwegian birth of black metal was famously marred by murders, suicides, and church burnings. But since then, it has, by and large, grown into a respectable musical genre. Plenty of unreformed misanthropes call black metal home, but groups like Darkthrone and Emperor have entered the underground metal canon, and bands jump on corporatesponsored bills without shocking anyone. So the existence, and the popularity, of Sweden's Watain feels like something of a wildNorth throwback. If Watain aren't genuinely terrifying people, they've worked hard to keep that hidden. The band is notorious for throwing buckets of actual pig blood at their audiences, and for keeping the rotting heads of animals on pikes as part of their stage set. Frontman Erik Danielsson has worn the same tshirt at nearly every one of the band's live shows, and that shirt must be the single nastiest, most diseaseridden shirt on the planet at this point. When asked how he felt about his Nazi black metal peers, Danielsson once basically answered that they're not evil enough, that they can't tap into the \"insanity and perversion\" that the genre is supposed to represent.It's one thing to claim allegiance to Satan and slather yourself in corpse paint; it's quite another to share tourvan real estate with actual animal remains to get that point across. So credit Watain with going that extra mile. There's something at once unsettling and anachronistically charming to their overthetop devotion to squalor and Satanism. And even if all these disgustingly theatrical tricks don't reflect directly on their music, it's impossible to forget all these little factoids when you're listening to the band. It certainly helps that they're very good at what they do. Black metal, at its finest, conjures images of a roiling, freezing, Lovecraftian chaos that can't easily be put into words. And Watain attack the fundamentals of their genre with absolute conviction. But they also undermine its rigor in subtle ways, finding room for actual catchiness in the allout assault.Watain were at their best on their last album, 2007's Sworn to the Dark, a windy blast of bile that sounded absolutely beautiful when I was in a very particular sort of mood. That album relied on the fundamentals of its genre (bloodcurdling screams, mosquitobuzz guitars, relentless doublebass drum assault), but it did it with style and atmosphere, and it carved out room for some memorable chanted choruses. I probably won't ever forget how perfect it sounded during a particularly hellish New York City Christmas shopping expedition. Lawless Darkness attempts to push that approach into something even bigger and possibly more accessible, but it stumbles a bit where its predecessor thrived. The cleaner production feels more compressed and less immersive, like they're attempting to bludgeon you with sheer loudness rather than suck you into their universe. Some of the touches, like the howlingwolf sound effects on the intro to \"Wolves Curse\", are just sillier than they need to be. The long songs blur into each other more than they used to. The whole thing feels like a step back for a band that was in a rare zone last time around.Still, judged on its own merits, this is pretty powerful stuff. Occasionally, the band hits levels of allout ferocity so absurd that they actually sound pretty. Danielsson has a truly great blackmetal voice, a ravaged and demonic backofthethroat gargle that only occasionally says anything I can decipher (\"Rivers of blood! Rivers of blood!\"). When they chant, \"Hail! Beelzebub!\" on \"Four Thrones\", they sound like they mean it, which somehow makes the whole thing more fun. These freaks still know what they're doing, even if they're just treading bloody water this time around. "}