{"label":" Babylon / Beverly Martel","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15827/homepage_large.716a630a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Apache Beat","title":"Last Chants","text":" Apache Beat lead singer Ilirjana Alushaj is also the editor and cofounder of the online culture magazine The Pop Manifesto. Spotlighting emerging talent in music, art, and fashion, the publication is impeccably hip and attractively presented. The same can be said of Apache Beat's debut album, the cleverly titled Last Chants, an extremely wellproduced, terrificsounding record that demonstrates a surehanded mastery of irreproachable artpop, postpunk, and indierock influences. Unfortunately, the group does little to inject its own personality into these seamless pastiches. Recent profile subjects in Alushaj's magazine include Neon Indian and the xx, and it's that crucial ingredient of individual style and idiosyncratic creative panache, so clearly evident in those artists, that is absent in Apache Beat's music.There's still plenty to like here. Apache Beat have internalized a host of iconic sounds, from brooding postpunk to Brian Eno and Talking Heads to the intricate polyrhythms of West African guitarpop. It certainly doesn't hurt that studio wizard John Agnello (Sonic Youth, the Walkmen, the Hold Steady) is on hand to offer his mixing services, ensuring that the guitars twitch and teem, the synths sparkle, and Neil Westgate's drums land with force. So while Last Chants may provide little in the way of hooks, the album still frequently manages to compel through mood, layering, and ensemble interplay: the way opener \"Knives\" surges with bass alternately careening around and leading the charge; the slashing cymbals and spiraling tendrils of guitar complementing each other on \"Walking on Fire\"; the stumbling, afterhours feel of the submerged vocals and stray pounding drums on \"It Will Be\".Speaking of vocals, guitarist Phillip Aceto and bassist Michael Dos Santos contribute some here and there, but it's Alushaj who invariably stands out, at various points throwing off shades of PJ Harvey (\"Your Powers Are Magic\"),  Corin Tucker (\"Nightwaters\"), and Kim Deal (\"Fear of Falling\"). Her most commanding performance is \"Tropics\" \"He will come to me,\" demands Alushaj, with a maneating fervor that recalls the best of Peej. The song as a whole neatly encapsulates Apache Beat's appeal as well as its limitations it boasts a dark, throbbing insistence that commands attention, yet it ends up feeling rather faceless, failing to carry that exquisitely constructed mood anywhere interesting. "}