{"label":" Ba Da Bing!","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15815/homepage_large.a796ae9c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"The Dead C","title":"Patience","text":" It's funny that, out of 30plus releases over 23 years, the Dead C decided to call this one Patience. Many of their other records have actually required patience both from the New Zealand trio and their audience. Take \"Speederbot\" from 2000's The Dead C, which drifts and wanders through a halfhour of stubborn noise, or \"Garage\" from 2007's Future Artists, 20 minutes of humming distortion and loose guitar (all good things, by the way). Patience, on the other hand, opens with the attentiongrabbing \"Empire\". Surging steadily forward with a simple beat, churning metal/psych riffs, and sheets of whirring feedback, it evokes classic Dead C pageturners like \"Helen Said This\" and \"Bitcher\".Come to think of it, maybe Patience refers to what the album rewards if you've been waiting for the Dead C to return the rockrubbing style of those songs. For such followers, the trio represents a unique step sideways from rock convention. On landmarks like 1992's Harsh 70's Reality and 1995's The White House, they split the rock atom to preserve the fun parts momentum, guitar heft, artpunk attitude, outsider edge and blow up the rest. What emerged was a sound that could swing and lurch, hang together and fall apart, and rock insistently while grinding unreservedly. The logical extension of those 90s detonations was abstract noise, and the band did some great work in that realm in the 2000s. But, as it had begun to on 2008's Secret Earth, the rock side regains the upper hand throughout these four motoring tracks.Which is not to say that you can sing along. In the Dead C dictionary, \"rock\" is more a translation than a definition, and besides, there aren't even any vocals here. That's a rarity Michael Morley's moan usually arrives somewhere along the band's farflung journeys, but here it's eschewed in favor of creating structure and atmosphere with morphing sonics. In that sense, Patience's closest parallel is the underappreciated 1996 live album, Repent. Both albums move like storm clouds, with Morley's guitar and Bruce Russell's noise riding Robbie Yeats' primal drumming as if it were laying tracks. But this album is also open and spacious, and remarkably energetic for a band that's been at it this long just check out \"Shaft\", a fiveminute blast that could pass for a teen band's uneducated, unjaded punk.Patience closes with a track that might seem to contradict my backtotherock thesis. \"South\" starts with seven minutes of slow chords and amorphous din, more like lost radio transmissions than music. But it eventually coalesces into a sticky beat, before descending into echoing feedback that somehow swings. In its own way, \"South\" rocks as solidly as the three tracks that preceded it. But it also serves as a nice reminder that the Dead C not only do a fine job of destroying rock, they're pretty good at sifting through the rubble, too. "}