{"label":" Nuearth Kitchen","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15831/homepage_large.31259f0a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Jon McMillion","title":"Jon McMillion LP","text":" If Seattle's Nuearth Kitchen were a restaurant, it would surely belong to the slowfood movement: you can figure that much out from its name and faintly Prairie School logo. A new label, its first release comes from Jon McMillion, a PacNW native who has previously recorded for Orac, another Seattle outfit dedicated to the fuzzy fringes of techno and house. These somewhat peripheral associations matter only insofar as they situate McMillion's debut album in a wider context, and because they might help to explain how and why it differs from the vast majority of similarly paced and structured electronic music. This isn't the kind of sound that can come out of just anywhere. It needs community and roots to nurture its more esoteric or eccentric tendencies, and it helps to have distance from the world's principal clubmusic centers, where market tastes too often dictate the shape of the music. You can hear how that breathing room has benefited McMillion: This is one of the most confident, expressive, and rewarding albums that house music has seen this year.The Jon McMillion LP isn't an experimental work, nor even an explicitly groundbreaking one; its 15 tracks explore a familiar depiction of house, one whose mold has been shaped by Moodymann, Matthew Herbert, Pépé Bradock, Isolée, Ricardo Villalobos, and others. However, like them, McMillion has a voice that's immediately recognizable; in a decade or so of producing electronic music, he's clearly become a master of his craft. His approach is neither expressly digital nor analog; it has the warmth of vintage drum machines, Rhodes keyboards, analog synthesizers, and layer upon layer of processed vocals, but it maps a sense of space unstable, porous, with shifting dimensions and contours that comes with computerbased processing and arrangements. His many interwoven lines suggest a collage aesthetic, of realtime machine jams chopped and soldered, and his slowly contorting funk is unusually organic.The album comes in two different versions: The CD features nine tracks (including two exclusives), and the download version 13 (with six exclusives). Somewhat oddly, the sequencing of each is radically different, a detail that suggests the way the music generates its own possibilities. There's no definitive listening order: the CD version presents one potential, ideal form of the album, but the more you mix its sequencing up, the more you'll begin to notice details a buried voice, a strange, electronic ripple that had previously remained hidden.If you had to spell out McMillion's influences, you could name classic Midwestern techno and house, European minimal, 90s R&B, a smattering of dub and disco, and occasional sonics borrowed from progressive rock or experimental computer music. Once or twice the Durutti Column and even Derek Bailey rear their heads; it's not a stretch to hear Arthur Russell's influence in McMillion's muted, soulful vocals, and the explosions of tone color even gesture towards Flying Lotus' brand of digital astral jazz.That's a lot to squeeze in, but McMillion fuses it elegantly and exquisitely: This is supple, seductive stuff, drawing you in closer and veiling the mechanics at its heart. As soon as you fix upon a given sound, you're reminded that everything is in motion around it. There's far too much to grasp at once, from polyrhythmic percussion lines to slowly evolving tone colors, but the record never overwhelms. Quite the opposite: It's difficult to imagine more inviting, easygoing grooves or arrangements, no matter how complicated they might be beneath the surface. "}