{"label":" Tompkins Square","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15828/homepage_large.0baac41b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Bloody War: Songs 1924-1939","text":" In debating the uses and wastes of war, no image carries more power than that of a mother grieving for her dead son. Two new collections of old war tunes one curated by the New York label Tompkins Square, the other covered by a veteran country singer deploy that tragic figure repeatedly, generating a gamut of emotions: from despair to anger, from outrage to honor, from schmaltz to utter devastation. But no matter if you're a lamb or a hawk, a letter in the mail can be more horrifying than a bullet or a bomb. Despite expounding very different views on war, both of these releases are timely as they bring ongoing debates about expensive wars in the Middle East into the realm of music and ground them historically and culturally. By digging so deep into the past, they reveal our present fears and concerns to be no different than those of previous generations.Bloody War: Songs 19241939 goes straight to the source, culling longlost recordings from between the World Wars to showcase peacetime misgivings. This isn't Greatest Generation lionization nor Baby Boomer dissent. Instead, like so many Tompkins Square releases, it's a dizzyingly wellresearched collection whose academic enterprise never dulls the impact of the music. These fifteen songs show just how deeply the Civil War, the SpanishAmerican War, and World War I, among other conflicts, had penetrated the American conscience, motivating and defining certain corners of popular culture the way WWII and Vietnam do today. (Tompkins Square is donating a portion of the proceeds to Iraq & Afghanistan Veterans of America.)War may be hell, but it provides mighty inspiration. The music on Bloody War is multivaried, lively, and immediate, flexing genres and styles to make larger points about violence and bravery. \"Johnnie, Get Your Gun\", recorded by Earl Johnson & His Clodhoppers in 1927, rambles with determined urgency, pushed along by the string band's precise picking and the complex sarcasm in Johnson's refrain. There is a great deal of humor in these fearful songs, especially on \"The Battleship of Maine\" by Red Patterson's Piedmont Log Rollers. \"Why are you running, are you afraid to die?\" Patterson asks. \"The reason I am running is because I cannot fly.\" Just as often, however, these ruminative songs address the pain of loss more directly: The Dixon Brothers' froggy harmonies intensify the desolation of \"The Old Vacant Chair\", a Civil War tune the siblings updated to the 1930s. As one brother ghosts the other's lead vocals, the song proves an eerie, dignified prayer that perfectly illuminates the human costs of violence.A few of the songs on Charlie Louvin's The Battles Rage On reach back to the period covered by Bloody War, as does the man himself. Born in 1927, he and his brother Ira were playing county fairs and square dances in Alabama years before Pearl Harbor, after which Charlie enlisted in the Air Force and served during World War II and the Korean War. Those experiences motivate this covers album featuring songs by Tom T. Hall, Roy Acuff, the Statler Brothers, Merle Haggard, and even the Louvin Brothers. Some are gently antiwar, others decidedly not. \"Smoke on the Water,\" which is not a Deep Purple cover but an updated jingo jingle originally by Zeke Clements, proposes riding Hitler out on a rail and replaces Hirohito with bin Laden. It's much more complex and conflicted than some of the mainstream country warrelated songs of the early 2000s (there's nothing as brash as Toby Keith's \"Courtesy of the Red, White & Blue (The Angry American)\", thankfully), but The Battles Rage On occasionally overplays its sentiments. \"More Than a Name on a Wall\" follows a mother as she visits the Vietnam Memorial, and Louvin sings from her perspective with gentle empathy. The production subtly undermines the song, putting a softfocus gloss on the guitar and mandolin that sounds somehow too blunt.The second half of the album is packed with such grieving mother songs, some of them popularized by the Louvin Brothers in the 1950s. It should get predictable or manipulative, but even in his 80s, Louvin remains a steadfast interpreter, imbuing these songs with stoic pride. That approach, more than the music or the lyrics, nods to the complexity of the issue and reveals war as both horrible and necessary. That makes the closer all the more affecting: His cover of the traditional gospel \"Down by the Riverside\", with its declarative refrain \"Ain't gonna study war no more,\" is almost jubilant in its defiance. Together, The Battles Rage On and Bloody War encompass almost the entire musical and military history of the twentieth century, and their startling evocations of loss, fear, grief, bravery, cowardice, and horror are louder than bombs. "}