{"label":" Rappers I Know","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15833/homepage_large.ab19c12b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Danny Brown","title":"The Hybrid","text":" Dilapidated and chronically underemployed, Detroit operates as the archetype for urban decay. The automotive industry and population have withered while the murder rate remains among the highest nationally. Musically, Jack White once one of Detroit's most famous musicians moved to Nashville, and three of the biggest pillars of Detroit's hiphop scene, J Dilla, Proof, and Baatin of Slum Village, all passed away within the last four years. Yet the talent pool of Detroit's rap scene remains deep, with the survivors flourishing amidst the rust and discontent.The new big three include Royce da 5'9\" an elder statesman once plagued by label woes now enjoying a latecareer renaissance as one of the best underground rappers in America and Elzhi, whose precision with words is so advanced that he could have his own rhyming dictionary. And now on The Hybrid, Danny Brown drops his name in the hat as one of Detroit's elite.Brown comes swinging out the gate, copy of Dilla's Donuts clutched in his hands. On opening salvo \"Greatest Rapper Ever\", he unleashes a torrent of savage punchlines, highlighting both his vivid imagination and the most peculiarly infectious voice since Dizzee Rascal. In less than three minutes, he compares himself to video game dinosaur Yoshi when talking about oral sex, turns a Phil Collins single into a death threat, and reminisces about skipping school while taking \"the same pills that had Carlton dancing fast.\" Brown maintains that wide reference base throughout the record, as George Costanza, Elvis Presley, and Alanis Morrissette are all used as tools to help the rapper bolster rhymes about \"bitches,\" blunts, bricks of cocaine, and being broke. At times, he relies too heavily on gardenvariety street talk, which doesn't help the limp beats and grating choruses of songs like \"New Era\", \"Exotic\", and \"Need Another Drink\".Thankfully, Brown's restless creative spirit heavily outweighs his tendency to lean on gangstarap tropes. The Hybrid seems an appropriate album title due to his ability to toe the line between excitable ignorance and shrewd high concept. His Linwood upbringing inspires him to cast his eye on the desolate streets of one of the most downtrodden cities in America: While most rappers brag about their newly acquired wealth, Brown goes on a shopping spree with his foodstamp card on \"Thank God\". Over the woozy, hallucinogenic synth line on \"Generation Rx\", he runs down the list of overthecounter drugs and the prescription drug culture that keeps America's health care system going. Best of all is \"Juno\", which flips the script on the Ellen Page movie and the romanticism of teen pregnancy.Back on \"Greatest Rapper Ever\", Brown raps, \"I rap like I bet my life/ 'Cause in all actuality, nigga? I DID.\" While the conviction in his voice is startling, Danny Brown is still a ways away from seeing the fruition of the title of his debut album's opening track. The Hybrid, however, is a peek inside the mind of one of Detroit's brightest young talents, and shows that he is definitely on the right track. "}