{"label":" Interscope / Cherrytree","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15838/homepage_large.4c448cc8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Die Antwoord","title":"$O$","text":" Die Antwoord were always a group of musicians of course, but chances are you didn't first hear about them because of their music. More likely, you first encountered them as a viral video, a meme, a performance art collective, a joke that left you searching for the punchline, or some combination of the above. Hell, when we first profiled the group, it was under the headline \"Who the Hell Are Die Antwoord?\" Our introduction came last winter, when Boing Boing first posted a pair of their videos. Combining documentary elements with a surreal undercurrent, the clips were funny, confounding, and unique, the sort of thing that you forward to your friends and then do online detective work to learn more about what you're watching and sharing. There was a full music video for their second single, \"Enter the Ninja\", but the first thing most of us were entranced by, the element that articulated and contextualized in some small way who DA were, was a promotional piece about the group called \"Zef Side\". There was music in it, but it served only as a soundtrack to the band's offthecharts personalities you got leader and MC Ninja's testicles dancing in Pink Floyd shorts in slow motion, along with the first hints at fellow MC YoLandi Vi$$er's strident, lowrent toughness, which was eventually cited by David Fincher as a potential cinematic look for the femmehero of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo books. Ninja and YoLandi aren't just striking visual curiosities, either; they're underrated MCs and pop personalities much more talented on the mic than they're credited for. They're also captivating live, where the visual fakery of what they do isn't lost; the simple challenge and central difficulty of their debut record, $O$ most of which was released as a free download last year is to fully put across who or what Die Antwoord are when all you have to guide you through their world is recorded music. It does all come together on \"Enter the Ninja\" still a fantastic single in part because it's an origin story. Ninja here works in and around aspirational hiphop tropes and clichés, giving listeners me vs. the world selfhelpsims alongside superhero boasts alongside regularguy humility. It's catchy, clever, and funny full of excellent deadpan jokes (\"They said I was a fuckin' psycho... well look at me now!\") and forceful raverap. Also touched upon are the notions of racial confusion and an introduction to Zef culture, a sort of South African version of white trash. But while this bait to intellectualize the project might carry more weight in the racial powderkeg of SA, it's confusing at best outside of it, requiring more footnotes than most will have time for. No fault of Die Antwoord of course, but the racial and social implications of various ethnic groups in and around South Africa was always going to lose much of its potential power and cachet away from home. That in itself is a lamentable reality: South African apartheid, a more literal blackandwhite issue, became a global civil rights cause in the 1980s; the subtle, complex, and alltooreal racial politics and biases since are more difficult to address, confront, and defeat. The loss of the Zef and racial aspects of the project also highlight how much the Die Antwoord project suffers the further away from visuals it moves. For all the shit Lady Gaga or Nicki Minaj get about their potential cultural signifiers not showing up in their music, they at least create tracks that work on their own. So too did great conceptual pop stars of the past like the KLF or Adam & the Ants or the Sex Pistols. Die Antwoord try here and often fail, for some of the same reasons that the concepts themselves are confusing they're a jumble sale of mixedup ideas and items. Ironically, Ninja and YoLandi's vast array of skills betray them here, and songs too often feel overstuffed or schizophrenic. Frustratingly, most songs have great ideas in them, sitting alongside creative dead ends. The overall sound of the record to be reductionist, raverap is a welcome trend, and it proves they have their ear to the ground. If this is to be an ongoing project, they're off to a weirdly good start, despite the many reservations here on this record: They've put together a group of people with skills, ideas, and personalities, and they seem more than capable of piecing together an excellent 21st century rap record. But this isn't it. Still serving to introduce the project, despite much of the music being around now for months, the album is mostly a literal retread of the sounds a lot of us heard in February and March. It seems like one piece of the conceptual puzzle rather than something that stands on its own. Ideally, Die Antwoord can now move forward with the freedom to not simply be \"that Zef side group,\" but to be a hiphop group full stop. That's often a death wish for pop stars the charismatic performer wanting to take full control of their vision in order to prove their artistry. Thing is, DA have proven gifted at doing both. Creating music and then adding memefriendly visuals in aid of that, rather than the other way around, could actually find them improving by leaps and bounds, without losing what's special and unique and headturning about them in the first place. "}