{"label":" No Quarter","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1464/homepage_large.cf78c6a2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Circle","title":"Forest","text":" First off, foreign is foreign; might as well say it, and suggest that it helps explain why after so many records and so many record reviews no one's yet pinned Circle to the wall. My guess: there's more need for a Finnish translator than any selfrespecting pair of knowledgeable American ears might want to admit. I know only this much: a bongo in Finland is still a bongo in any speaker, and no country can redeem that awful sound. Proggy metal riffed on keyboards and organs coupled with Mika Ratto's operatic vocals are both hilarious and oddly galvanizing, but that's the province of some other Circle record or live show. Forest is a flatout, albeit dark dark dark, longhaired hippy record. So expect the entire fifth grade music room arsenal: aforementioned bongos, triangle percussion, xylophoned melody lines, shaky shakers, and onandoff synch chorale humming. Also get the volume knob handy, since most of Forest registers only at a whisper that, once cranked, forms a windy, mumbling, sleeptalked monologue. Norm deviations, in songs that go with one part for more minutes than can be believed, become big moments. The gruff grindcore/cookie monster vocals of \"Luikertelevat\", sparse and backloaded though they are, relieve an almost painfully tight and repetitive acoustic guitar progression that otherwise shows no signs of stopping. And acid trips have been shorter than \"Jaljet\", which shoots air and little vocal cutins across various sensitive mics, then picks up for the midtempo, toasting session stuff that Circle attempts to sell all over Forest. Ratto seems as if he's making it up as he goes, probably ditto for the squeaky onenote interruptions and general drumcircled aural politics: Forest is, for better or worse, way beyond free. Whether someone without a lot of time on their hands, or a lot of drugs on their hands, will enjoy minimalist throatsinging and turn of the last century percussion (minus the big pieces), all with the mute button on, well, call it an open question. Certainly Forest is not selfconscious. The absence of any apparent expectation of an audience is rare and also somewhat exciting; however, when the thrill tapers off, the confusion sets in. Best is the taunt thriller \"Ydinaukio\", which presents as an incomprehensible melodrama: \"When I first met you/ Having eyes like sparks/ Having eyes like stars/ So I told myself/What do we have here?\" Lacking a lyric sheet, or articulated syllables, the narrative's guesswork even when you want in. If you don't, it's easy enough, with Forest's solipsism, to walk away. "}