{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15852/homepage_large.70cc5c83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"NYMPH","title":"NYMPH","text":" The psych band NYMPH's selftitled debut has been available only on vinyl until this point, which makes perfect sense considering their fringe aesthetic and freeform impulses. Tinkering with fractured classic rock, drumcircle grooves, thrash, jazz, and just about anything else that happens to wiggle its way into the band's train of thought, NYMPH seem almost out to make music solely because it's fun for them to play. But with quirky styleappropriation and some flatout ballsy performances, the band's dedication to exercising their pure id usually outweighs any of the numbing pretensions associated with underground rock, making this album both unpredictable and weirdly satisfying.Sure, there are only three proper songs cozily nestled in between two spastic jams, the latter of which clocks in at 22 minutes. Those long, improvisational bookends are the album highlights: Save for the saxanchored freejazz of \"Reeds of Osirion\", opener \"iiYo\" and closer \"Namu\" deliver more woolly energy than their condensed counterparts. Instead of getting by solely on its obtuseness, NYMPH feels like the work of a proper rock band: Guitarist Matty McDermott's damaged blues and Jason Robira's spastic drum work on \"iiYo\" work together so well even the noisy contrasting moments seem purposefully arranged. All throughout, players collide into one another, providing a little release, a little confusion, and frequently a lot of style, helping richly characterize these two huge tracks.Not that NYMPH are incapable of handling a little concision once and a while. Though the childish whimsy of \"Bird Song\" is ultimately more trying than anything else, \"Reeds of Osirion\" and \"Snow Song\" both make the most of NYMPH at half a click, teasing out little nuances that stick in your head. \"Snow Song\" plinks about coldly and curiously, featuring a melodic hook that seems to nick Danny Elfman's Edward Scissorhands score it's a simple, wonderfully associative detail that provides a somber, chilly backdrop for those frazzled blasts of guitar noise and shallow vocal gasps. For a heady moment on a record that's more inclined to shake its energy out all over the place, it's a suitably ruminative centerpiece. The rest is actually just a lot of fun. "}