{"label":" Defend Music","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15847/homepage_large.34019a79.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Simian Mobile Disco","title":"Is Fixed","text":" For a duo best known for popdance albums with big choruses and bright hooks, this is one sinister DJ mix that's not much interested in making converts. When the most accessible vocal cut here is Simian Mobile Disco's own remix of DJ Hell's \"U Can Dance\" wherein Bryan Ferry sounds like he's moonlighting at Satan's supper club you know you're not in SMD's usual userfriendly indieremix territory. Cherry picking across three decades of dark dance (and notquitedance) music, SMD use Is Fixed to explore house and techno's creepier impulses, tracks in which insistent basslines suddenly turn uncomfortably, claustrophobically insistent. And when they leave the rave behind, whether it's Conrad Schnitzler's fizzing preDetroit protoelectro or Etienne Jaumet's snarling postDetroit neoelectro, SMD still favor synth riffs that feel more John Carpenter than Derrick May.Like most modern DJs with pointandclick access to all eras and genres, SMD are freed up both chronologically and stylistically, for better or worse. Sleekly sculpted modern day minimal is joined, sometimes jarringly, to crude oldschool house bangers. All of this decadehopping and styleshuffling can make for some choppy transitions; Is Fixed certainly isn't the smoothest mix you'll hear this year. Like a lot of DJs who chase a mood even when it gets in the way of technical perfection, SMD will choose a jolt to the ears over an easy fade if it gets them where they need to go. But the rough edges of the mixing actually suit the agitated, abouttofray quality of certain tracks. This is dance music that wants to knot you up with tension, offering only little hints of ecstatic release. Even the minimal tunes, like Pitchfork contributor Philip Sherburne's \"Salt and Vinegar\", have the kind of tightly wound percussion that once gave oldschool house its eerie tribal vibe.That vintage acidhouse atmosphere of delirium informs the whole mix. It's fitting the  n that SMD acknowledge acid's groove outright by including Bam Bam's \"Where's Your Child\", long the gold standard for goosebumpinducing firstgeneration acid singles, with its throbbing rhythm track punctuated (but not undone) by disorienting samples of shattering glass and screaming infants. More than 20 years later, \"Where's Your Child\" still feels like funk pitched up to the verge of a fullblown freakout, but like Is Fixed, it never quite tips over the edge. "}