{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15844/homepage_large.c5c07c65.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Suuns","title":"Zeroes QC","text":" Plenty of bands have ambition; Montreal's Suuns have their sights set on the brass ring. Zeroes QC, their dank, oily, frequently metamorphosing debut LP, is one of the more industrious first goes I've heard in ages sleek, moody spaceprog, selfassured, meticulous, and foreboding. More than anything, Zeroes QC sounds like the work of a much older band, the kind who've earned a few months in the studio to tool around, rearrange their pedal boards, try out literally every idea that comes to them. That's a path that often leads to convolution and overcrowding ask just about any prog rocker how the 80s worked out but Suuns seem to have taken as much care yanking things out of the mix as they did building it up. Helped along by Besnard Lakes frontman Jace Lasek, who produces here, Zeroes QC is a sleek, spacious, confident blend of prog and krautrock.Zeroes QC seems wholly unaware of the daytime; from the buzzy progstep that opens the record to the forebodingly lovely ballad that closes it, it's dark stuff. Extended instrumental passages abound, but Suuns aren't big on solos, let alone stacking them threehigh; despite the proggy segmentation in the music, Suuns evince an almost laserguided focus, allowing each instrument its space, never cluttering the mix with too many sound effects. The muscular lowend, the rich but never overbearing electronic flourishes, and the occasional sonic assault shows a great deal of reserve, which Suuns yield like another instrument; one gets the sense they're capable of bigger, wilder sounds, which makes the reignedin Zeroes QC's terse successes all that more impressive.From the deep bass wobble in \"Pie XI\", the wily organ bend in \"Armed for Peace\", or the saxophone maelstrom that closes out \"Gaze\", Zeroes QC is more thrilling momenttomoment than trackfortrack. It never drags, and Suuns have a fine sense of pacing, but amidst all the shapeshifting you'll find you prefer certain forms to others pretty fast. In fact, their restlessness can be a saving grace; \"Up Past the Nursery\", with its clipclop rhythm and staccato vocalizations, bears an uncanny resemblance to the first couple of albums from UK garageweirdos Clinic. It'd be easier to overlook if the same thing didn't happen on the next track, \"PVC\". It's jarring; not only are these decidedly broll as Clinic tunes go, but up against the blithe detours that mark the rest of Zeroes, these couple of songs would feel weirdly staid even if they weren't awfully familiar.Suuns have a friend in Lasek, who brings the improbable hugeness of his rootsier Besnard Lakes material into glitzy and chromatic territory without seeming chintzy or overwrought. He's got the detailoriented touch of a much pricier producer, and at times, his successes juicing unlikely sounds from behind the boards seem to be Zeroes QC's great strength. His Ade Blackburn routine aside, singer Ben Shemie tends to fall into the backdrop here, his voice a tad wispy amidst the steady stomp of Suuns' formidable bottom end. Compositionally, these tunes can and do wander often. It should be a mess, but it isn't; every note lands perfectly in place, every leftturn eventually circling back around. Sure, they could use a few relatable sentiments to go with their outstretched sound, and the Clinic thing's just gotta go. But few bands this young are operating on quite this scale, and fewer still have the brass and the patience to pull off a big, glitzy, complex record like Zeroes QC. There are improvements to be made, but next time these dudes hit the studio and start digging in, they'll have really earned it. "}