{"label":" Digitalis","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15866/homepage_large.af2da380.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Svarte Greiner","title":"Penpals Forever (and Ever)","text":" Rattling doorknobs, creaking timbers, knocking plumbing, and disembodied wails it's either a haunted mansion or another album of saturnine drones from Erik K. Skodvin, a.k.a. Svarte Greiner (Hint: it's drones). Skodvin has an authoritative way of transforming jetblack bass and chattering textures into dark and distinctive atmospheres. All of his usual tricks were in place on his last record, Kappe, but it felt unusually staid and monochromatic. Both deficiencies are rectified on the latest Svarte Greiner release, Penpals Forever (and Ever), which isn't even a proper new album. The two long opening tracks were first issued as a limitededition cassette in 2008, and here, they're remastered for CD alongside three brand new, shorter tracks.The Digitalis label boldly asserts that Penpals tells \"the imaginary tale of a longdead Baroque painter and his telekinetic correspondence with a flightless bird,\" although there is zero perceptible evidence of this in the music. Silliness of the metastory aside, the music itself is sumptuously dreary. Throughout, violin bows and analog filters transform electric guitar tones into gruesome pricks and smears. The first two tracks (all of them are untitled) establish the field of play: One, a jittery fugue for brittle guitar swirls and guttural bass, borders on aggressive; the other, an airy twotone drone with bowed shrieks and lonesome clangs, more readily slips into the background. More than telekinetic communication (wouldn't that be \"telepathic\" anyway?), the tracks evoke bleakly pleasurable anxiety.The highly contrasting timbres of the two openers already break up the monotony that bogged down Kappe, and the new compositions further expand the palette while complementing the reissued material perfectly. In one, gonglike tones accumulate resonance until the whole mass lifts off with the grandeur of a Bach organ chord. In another, delicately stretched and twisted metallic tones gradually inflate with breath. And then a third track is built around a widening cone of galeforce distortion. The slow and tortuous crescendos that Skodvin favors are always satisfying when he takes care to differentiate them from one another, as he does here. The eerie tension doesn't break; it multiplies, as the sonic light goes dim and weird. "}