{"label":" Brainfeeder","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15878/homepage_large.871b6433.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Teebs","title":"Ardour","text":" Teebs has been billed as someone who benefits from his duespaying backstory. He's a visual artist turned musician, he shared an apartment building with mentors Flying Lotus and Samiyam, and he put together his first Brainfeeder release, Ardour, over a twoyear stretch that saw his father pass away. Run in certain beatgeek circles, and you might start getting an idea of what his deal is just from those details. But who Teebs knows, how he came up, the creation process, what scenes he's echoing off and adding to well, it's important, but there's something about Ardour that makes it feel like it has no manmade origin. Think of a building that's been left unattended for 100 years, and all of the foliage that pushes up through it and engulfs its crumbling foundations. For all the artisanal care that went into this album's creation, it sounds like decaying beats being split apart by deceptively fragile yet resilient melodies, posthiphop production as a simulation of nature reclaiming concrete.Here's what I mean: try and focus on a specific instrument when you listen to an individual track, and you'll discover that Teebs' manipulation has rendered it into something unexpected. That's a wobbly harp on \"Double Fifths\", though in the first few seconds of the loop getting spooled up, it sounds like an outoftune ukulele, and over the course of the song its offtime loops start to come across as precipitation rather than a set of strings. There's a trilling piano glissando on \"Moments\", tweaked at points drenched in reverb, distorted, subsumed under layers of percussion and hiss to halfway convince you into thinking it might not actually be a piano at all. Percussive elements are built in a way that puts kicks and snares front and center, but lets just enough supplemental backbeat elements like backspun loops, flowing chimes, and sparking electronic synapses bubble under the surface so that even the most minimalist rhythms sound mystifyingly busy. Such elements make songs like \"My Whole Life\" and \"Wind Loop\" into drumrich tracks that sinuously trickle instead of straightup banging.A lot of ink and pixels have been thrown around trying to make a case for the idea of electronic music's organic possibilities, but Ardour actually captures the sonic equivalent of watching biological life expand in spedup timelapse. And no, that's not to say that Ardour is about as interesting as watching grass grow. Its methodology is subtle, but its mood is immediate. Maybe the best way I can think of to describe that tone is one of disorienting joy: It's wispy and gentle and a bit cheerful on the surface, but giving it a deep listen will bring forth some of the more complex and abrasive elements to the forefront. This music can be flatout beautiful while still giving your head a jostle: The romantic soundtrack strings of \"Humming Birds\", the icy bells of \"Arthur's Birds\", and the digital birdchirps of \"Autumn Antique\" are undercut by clicking snapbeats and bass throbs that sound like they're coming from a loose, twitching highvoltage power line. That juxtaposition of gentleness and heat makes Ardour a pleasant exercise in loopchopping naturalism but even through all the foliage, you can still nod your head to it. "}