{"label":" Galaxia","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/147/homepage_large.1b057b72.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Amalgamated Sons of Rest","title":"Amalgamated Sons of Rest EP","text":" Back in the midtolate 80s, I was a fan of the Boston Celtics. Actually, not so much the Celtics as Larry Bird, the \"Hick from French Lick\". Bird was my favorite player and when he retired from basketball, I lost interest in the game. But one reason I liked him so much (besides the fact that he was one of the best players ever, and a fellow Hoosier) was that he brought out the best in others. And not just his teammates, but his opponents, too: fellow Celtics Kevin McHale and Robert Parish would have been good, but not great, without Bird, and Magic Johnson and the Lakers were undoubtedly at their best when facing the Celtics and Bird. Maybe it was because I was thirteen or so at the time, but I was honestly excited when it was announced that professional players were eligible for the Olympic Team. \"The Dream Team\", it was called, with Bird and Johnson and all the other greats on the same team. No one else stood a chance, and the thought of Bird dishing it off to Isaiah Thomas or Magic... well, to my young mind it was like Neil Peart jamming with Joe Satriani. Of course, as good as this sounded at the time, I hadn't quite anticipated just how incredibly boring this would quickly become. I don't remember who they played in that first round of the Olympics or what the final score was (something like 27829), but I do remember flipping to summertime reruns of \"227\" after about two dozen fast breaks in a row. You probably see where I'm going with this. Amalgamated Sons of Rest is a Dream Team of sorts, if your dreams include birds of prey, whoring, and/or traveling in gypsy caravans. Comprised of Will Oldham, Jason Molina from Songs: Ohia, and Alasdair Roberts from Appendix Out, the Sons o' Rest sound like a great idea on paper. Unfortunately, it also sounds exactly as you'd expect it to sound, and therein lies the problem. Everything about this disc is a foregone conclusion, excepting who's going to sing bass on the threepart harmonies (usually Will). From the mix of traditional and original material, to the subject matter (death, longing, whaling), the mood (dejected, yet philosophical), and the instrumentation (acoustic guitar, some piano), the record reeks of coasting. Even the song titles (\"Maa Bonny Lad\", \"The Gypsy HeWitch\") could be approximated beforehand. Granted, no one was expecting anything revolutionary from this trio beyond what they've already accomplished with their own solo projects and fulltime bands, but a little effort certainly couldn't have hurt. Still, there are small pleasures, if only for completists. All three of these croaky crooners take two turns in the lead vocalist's rocking chair. On the remaining, uncredited song (the hidden track on the CD and the lone song on the etched side of the vinyl version) each members takes turns singing what could nearly pass for a children's song, with the chorus, \"I will be good,\" repeated with increasing adamancy. It's by far the best offering here, not quite so serious as the other songs. Oldham's single songwriting contribution, \"Major March\", is also notable, but for a different reason: it's one of the few songs here in which the members sound genuinely passionate about the project, which obviously makes for a solid track, but also serves to highlight the limitations of the rest of the disc. The execution is forceful and determined, with Roberts and Molina echoing Oldham's stark phrasing: \"I have grown my hair out longer/ I have grown my beard out, too/ My skin is failing, my arms are frailing/ But you'd still know me, wouldn't you?\" During this chorus, in particular, the firm course of direction and the impassioned delivery on the part of each member makes sparklingly clear what this record is lacking elsewhere: leadership. "}