{"label":" Fader","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15887/homepage_large.0979a28e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rebecca Raber","artist":"Matt & Kim","title":"Sidewalks","text":" For anyone who has ever seen a Matt & Kim album, the cover of the Brooklyn synthpunk duo's third effort, Sidewalks, won't come as a surprise. Like the band's 2006 selftitled debut and last year's Grand, Sidewalks comes festooned with a grainy, urban image from the pair's home borough with a colorful, graffitiinspired, screenprinted overlay. It's a look that pledges allegiance to homemade hipster crafting, DIY punk grit, and locavore Brooklyn living all of which have contributed to the band's gleefully spazzy sound in the past. But for anyone who has ever heard a Matt & Kim album, the music within this familiar packaging will come as a surprise.It's not that the twosome has changed their ingredients. Matt Johnson still sings in his nasalnerd yelp. His synths still mostly eschew gloss in favor of buzz. He still favors remedial, righthandonly melodies. Kim Schifino's punk drum sound is still big and sloppy. And her rare vocal turns still mostly serve a backgroundcheerleader role. But it's the way the band's new producer, Ben Allen, combines those typical ingredients that makes for such an unusual taste. Allen, who was once Diddy's inhouse engineer at Bad Boy and who recorded Gnarls Barkley's breakthrough debut (as well as indie rock touchstones like Animal Collective's Merriweather Post Pavilion), adds some hiphop swagger and studio polish to Matt & Kim's formerly enthusiastically amateurish punk sound. Therefore, songs like album opener \"Block After Block\" and first single \"Camera\" rely not on propulsive synth riffs or buoyant, messy melodies, but on repetitive, rhythmic chords that almost sound like samples and drums that sound mechanical (instead of manic).Despite those two tracks, this studio experimentation frequently backfires. The band excels when its raw, rollicking songs gallop forward, carried by passion and elation, and its live shows are unbridled explosions of good vibes and raucous energy. Like a smiley Ramones, Matt & Kim use a cartoonish formula as their fuel; getting serious was a risk for them. It works on the bittersweet sleigh bellsandpiano ballad \"Northeast\", which poignantly captures the premature nostalgia for youth at which the band excels. But Sidewalks often inflates the worst attributes of Matt & Kim's big sound (overly simplistic lyrics, crude synth melodies, shouty singing) and smothers much of its sugarrush energy and joyously defiant attitude in studio flourishes. "}