{"label":" Rinse FM","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15876/homepage_large.4bfb68d4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Supa D & DJ MA1","title":"I Love Funky","text":" The appeal of UK funky resides less in any particular quality or signature sound than in what it requires of a listener's general approach to music. The charms of the genre coalesce once you adjust your frame of reference and recognize the value of its precarious yet carefree balancing act. Skeptics are frustrated by funky because it foils any attempt to define its development: Its aggressively percussive rhythmic experimentation never fully severs its ties with the comforting familiarity of house, and its MCs and divas refuse to entirely get out of the way and let the music do the work. They're also unwilling to replace their enthusiastic amateurism with the studied professionalism of the R&B and rap whose blueprint they deface, leaving funky hesitant to join the ranks of grownup genres.But this immaturity is the music's greatest strength, placing it in a frozen moment before a series of ruinously limiting choices it might otherwise be required to make. So it sits between macho aggression and brazen seduction, between the accomplished and the gratifyingly disposable, between the firmly established provinces of the many genres (house, grime, dancehall, soca, broken beat, R&B) it floats amongst and apart from. It's in keeping with this constant state of musical prepubescence that funky's appeals are shallowest on a trackbytrack basis. Its magic emerges properly only in the context of the club or radio set, where the dueling interplay between one syncopated rhythm and the next, mediated through the MC, acts like two pens tracing a complex doublespirogram around the absent centre of the house groove, in a spontaneous balance of intricacy and symmetry.To date, official mix compilations have failed fully to capture this vibe, in part due to the absence of MCs, but more generally by lacking the vibrant spontaneity that is so large a part of funky's appeal. Rinse's hedgebetting doubledisc scene overview, I Love Funky, mixed by scene stalwarts Supa D and DJ MA1, certainly is no exception. But in its mostly successful rendering of funky's rhythmic adventurousness and stylistic range, it remains 2010's next best thing for curious listeners.DJ MA1's disc relies heavily on overcompiled tracks from several years ago, and overall gives the impression of funky as little more than a local variant of an international house sound. The inclusion of funky's archetypal \"hard\" grimeinfluenced tune, Lil Silva's similarly aged \"Seasons\", is something of a tooblunt protest to the contrary. In his productions and radio sets, MA1 often seems disappointed that funky ever shifted away from its original polite adherence to the house template, and this air of futurefear hangs heavily over the mix, notwithstanding the high standard of most of the individual tracks. A shame, but if nothing else it provides a handy overview for the uninitiated.By contrast, Supa D's strong (albeit predictable) track selection on his disc covers a satisfyingly broad and reasonably contemporary range of sounds and approaches. It moves from hitech syncopated pop (Funkystepz's \"For U\") to aggressive steroidassisted dancehall (Geeneus and Ms. Dynamite's tense \"Get Low\") to stark, disorienting percussive works (DJ Naughty's \"Rhythm Dance\"). Much of the fun lies in the journey from one state to the next, especially the regrettably brief periods in which the grooves coincide in messy, multitentacle clashes.Funky's immaturity isn't facile: duo Ill Blu in particular have spent the last two years positioning themselves as perhaps the most expansive, forwardthinking producers currently operating in dancepop. On their remix of Shystie's \"Pull It\", the bittersweet anthemism of the synthhorn and harpsichord arrangement belies a furious groove that seems to stagger and stumble like a galloping animal overcome by its own velocity. Still, the disc's most vibeladen moment is also its simplest, with the Devine Collective's Mad One offering a pared down statement of funky's core principles on \"Housegirls Part 1\", barely more than a ratatat snare pattern, a ceaseless bass throb, and a delightful timestretched ragga vocal ripped straight from jungle. In its gradual, relentless build of sensual friction from the sparest elements, it captures funky's appeal at its most elusive yet hardhitting, not just an anthem but a frame of reference, a way of life. "}