{"label":" Samadhi Sound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15893/homepage_large.e900cbb1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"David Sylvian","title":"Sleepwalkers","text":" Like many singers who came of age during glam and made their name as the new romantics were wresting English rock from the punks, David Sylvian has a voice unashamedly mannered and theatrical and oozing wounded romanticism that's both inimitable and divisive. It's also been the only constant in his music over the last 30 years; the man shreds styles as a rule, often as soon as listeners have adjusted to his latest changeup. So hardcore Sylvianophiles are usually in it for That Voice, which has grown warmer and deeper and more restrained with experience while still being recognizable within seconds. It's the reliable pleasure that's carried listeners through Sylvian's lessthanfertile periods, the collaborations that didn't quite spark, the styles that proved an ill fit for the singing, all the downsides to his ultimately admirable brand of creative restlessness.Sylvian's voice is certainly the only constant on Sleepwalkers, a collection of his 21st century nonalbum collaborations that's coherently assembled, which means it flows like an album, but artistically all over the map, which means the individual songs range from several undeniable keepers to a small handful of winceinducing missteps. Naturally, it's the missteps which stand out on first listen. Sylvian's singing, though it's more versatile than his reputation for mannered artrock melodrama suggests, proves very, very awkward when dropped into a slab of George Michaelesque blueeyed soul (\"Money for All\", complete with Vegasy backup singers). The oddity of appropriating the style doesn't necessarily make the song fun to listen to, but it certainly dispels the rumors that Sylvian's hardened into a popspurning experimentalist over the last decade.Some oldschool Sylvian fans have been turned off by his 21st century albums, which have stretched versechorus structure to its limit while recasting both improvstyle instrumental abstraction and avant electronics as a songwriter's tools. Personally I think 2003's Blemish and 2009's Manafon are minor masterpieces, but it's easy to understand why folks who fell in love with Japan's lush, tight synthrock might not be too keen on the way Sylvian's albums now hide the pleasure of his voice inside the forbidding box marked \"free music.\" If you're in that camp, Sleepwalkers, despite its wildly varying quality, may come as some relief. Here, in addition to the knotty electroacoustic/glitch stuff, brilliant Blemishesque tracks like \"Sleepwalkers\" and \"Transit\", we also get Sylvian goes country (\"Ballad of a Deadman\"), Sylvian goes piano bar torch singer (\"Playground Martyrs\"), and so on.Sylvian's genretakes are always a little skewed, as befitting a guy who's worked with Holger Czukay, Ryuichi Sakamoto, and other great avant/pop synthesists. Sometimes this tweaking adds frisson to what might have otherwise been too stale, too traditional. Sylviangoescountry twangs for sure, but it also squeals and clonks and squirms with little Matmoslike musique concrète embellishments. But on a few occasions Sylvian's soundart touches feel like oddball window dressing on flimsy tunes. And when one of those Blemish/Manafon style songs pops up, you're struck by what a singular soundworld Sylvian's solo albums have created in the last 10 years. That's not an achievement to chuck away lightly, so it's good that Sylvian has these oneoff collaborations as release valves. Sleepwalkers naturally doesn't draw you into a world as fully realized as one of Sylvian's true albums. But his fearlessness, if not quite his versatility, at tackling new sounds (and even new structures) is still a beacon, especially at an age when many of his contemporaries have fossilized into postpunk heritage acts. "}