{"label":" Rune Grammofon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15901/homepage_large.32b173fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Supersilent","title":"10","text":" Norway's Supersilent is a supremely questing experimental jazz unit. Whether playing live or recording a new entry in their numbered series of albums for Rune Grammofon/ECM, they don't rehearse or make plans. Instead, they convene and explore, following their collective muse into soundworlds that seldom fail to seem conceptually centered, despite their spontaneous nature. And in general, I'm game to follow them wherever they go. But they lost me for a minute with Supersilent 9, which sounded like someone had fallen asleep on the keys of a Hammond organ. To be fair, the quartet had recently become a trio with the departure of drummer Jarle Vespestad, and perhaps they were adjusting to the new lineup. Happily, they've bounced back strong for 10 and 11. The latter is a mite uneven, collecting leftovers from the sessions for Supersilent 8 in a vinylonly format. The former is arguably the finest and most coherent piece of music they've ever recorded.After 12 years together, it seemed as if Supersilent had tried everything under the sun, from the spattering noise of their early issues to the ambientinclined 5 to the daunting electroacoustic jazz of 8. But on 10, they reveal a new direction that would be obvious for anyone else but is counterintuitive for them: a more acoustic, lyrical, almost traditional approach. As much as I admire their more \"difficult\" works, 10 is not only their most listenable record, but their bravest, clearing away the usual thickets of disturbance to let the technical skill and emotional acuity of the players shine through. The elegant interplay between Ståle Storløkken's oftenchromatic Steinway piano and Arve Henriksen's talkative trumpet, with its inimitably airy yet ragged timbre, is front and center. As if in recognition of something special happening, producer Deathprod keeps a low profile, subtly coloring the music with quietly cosmic keyboards and hushed ambiance. The result is more similar to Henriksen's beautiful album Cartography than anything in the Supersilent catalog, with the same cold, thin air and heartwrenching, effortlessly modulated motifs. Minimal ambient and noise passages knit together moving set pieces like the eerie \"10.3\", the pliant \"10.6\", and the penetratingly wistful \"10.8\".But lest anyone think that Supersilent have gone soft, 11 opens with a long and seemingly breakbeatinspired passage of electronic mayhem. This is one of the aforementioned disturbances they favor, and it seems a right mess when compared to the impeccable poise of 10. But if you persevere through this nervejangling start, you'll be treated to a slow and expressive solo from Henriksen that carries into a more satisfying section of power electronics and fractured beats. Shades of postmodern lounge and rock music ensue, and the album manages to achieve an undeniable if broken throughline despite the disparate nature of its parts. If it feels a bit forced, it also represents the sort of challenging music for which many listeners value Supersilent. But it's 10 that represents a new chapter for the group, without longtime collaborator Vespestad, and so it's the ideal moment to ask: What are all these numbers adding up to? So far, the answer is a body of work that can be difficult or forthcoming, beautiful or ugly, but never anything short of fully committed. And the sequence isn't finished yet. Supersilent 12 has already been announced, and after the recentering maneuvers of 9, 10, and 11, who knows where they'll end up next. "}