{"label":" Downtown / Mad Decent","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15913/homepage_large.7a4cfd36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Blow Your Head Volume 1: Diplo Presents Dubstep","text":" After incubating and bubbling as a key strain of London bass culture for much of last decade, dubstep has recently exploded internationally, and done so in largely unique ways. Like most strains of electronic dance music, dubstep was created and cultivated by adventurous DJs and partygoers. Eventually those new electronic sounds tend to become one of two things: a battleground for arguments about purity and definitions, which inevitably stunts growth and inherently creates dead ends; or a once handson, dangerous, and visceral sound that intellectualizes itself into something considerably more dull when removed from its utilitarian dancefloor origins.A funny thing happened to dubstep, however: So far it's avoided each of these traps, proving itself voracious and adaptable, and just as exciting as headphone music as it is roomshaking club music. It's also become an international force, one of the most universally agreed upon leftfield musics of our time, penetrating the fanbases and sounds of everything from hiphop to house to indie to the avantgarde. In many ways it's a true reflection of globalism, and arguably a product of this century's downcast global mood. Dark, urban, and paranoid, dubstep is an appropriate soundtrack to an era in which the West is dominated by economic fallout, global warming, terrorism, and its encroaching marginalization.There isn't another city in the world other than London that could have birthed dubstep, but the sound quickly became a global concern. Crafted in the UK by a young group of producers uninterested in jealously guarding their scene, it quickly spread not just as club nights, pirate radio, and white labels but through SoundClouds, message boards, and online mixes as well. It's now a central force in underground culture from Moscow to Los Angeles to Buenos Aires, and with the Internet as its key delivery device, all of these scenes and their players are having an ongoing dialogue with one another, making dubstep a versatile jumpingoff point for any number of ideas. It's more of a means than an end, and in that sense it has mutated in unexpected and dynamic ways.As with other global rhythmic sounds, Diplo now attempts to sift through these rapidly changing sands and make sense of it all on his new mix, Blow Your Head Volume 1. It's an almost impossible task, trying to make sense of something that is changing so quickly. Diplo seems to grasp this, and aims to present the breadth and depth of dubstep as filtered through his own sensibilities, with a heavy emphasis on its booming, large dancefloorfriendly permeations and its encroachment into more pop realms. (He illustrated the latter mostly through his own collaborations or those of his friends.)Where other effective or onpaper promising dubstep compilations 5: Five Years of Hyperdub; Peverelist's forthcoming mix of the Bristol purple sound have given themselves a clear umbrella under which they work, Diplo, perhaps fittingly for those familiar with his work, goes allin on eclecticism. The brave gambit means this was always going to be an incomplete picture. And while his instincts are sound, it's difficult to articulate the full spectrum of a rapidly mutating scene. In that sense, the comp is reminiscent of Soul Jazz's Dynamite sets, which laid to waste the notion that \"all reggae music sounds the same\" by expertly placing songs from throughout Jamaica's rich history whether ska, rocksteady, reggae, toasting, dub, roots, lovers rock, or dancehell side by side. Those eyeopening collections had 40 years of music to pull from, however; Diplo has about 40 months.And whether it's a case of licensing limitations or just selection, Diplo's mix never really coalesces around an idea other than \"dubstep is an important sound right now.\" Part of the problem is that it's selfpromotional: The mix is weakest when Diplo's own circle is involved. Rusko is basically the Audio Bullys or Oxide & Neutrino of this shit, and Borgore isn't much better; subtlety isn't in their arsenal, with each treating dubstep like a bludgeon. Diplo himself collaborates here with Lil Jon, so you know there aren't a lot of shades of gray to that track. (Dubstep as the new big beat can work, granted, as DZ's \"Down\" here indicates.)Elsewhere, Jessica Mauboy and Little Jinder carry tantalizing glimpses of what the sound could do if Rihanna went all in on it, or if UK funky dirtied itself up a bit, but neither track really hits as hard as it should. The highlights here are the artists most people already know Benga, Zomby, Joker & Ginz, and James Blake, none of them at their best. The missteps here sound odd, not just in their sequencing but because of the variation in quality; Rusko's fratboybaiting next to James Blake's exploratory remix of Untold in particular is a big jump. In the end then, for all of Diplo's good intentions and curatorial muscle, the first volume of Blow Your Head struggles not just as a lesson, or a sampler, but also simply as a collection of songs you want to listen to. "}