{"label":" Woodsist","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15923/homepage_large.0c42a180.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Excepter","title":"LATE EP","text":" If there's anything resembling a line on Excepter, any kind of conventional wisdom to be thrown at one of experimental music's most dependably unconventional acts, it's this: Even their best songs sometimes take a while to get going. Something about their churning, groaning drone seems to settle over time: The offkilter rhythms find their bearings, the jokes get funnier, your brain adjusts to their crazy. This winter's sprawling, unusually solid 2xCD Presidence underscored this; the further they dug in, the more fertile their excursions. LATE, their latest, is a series of shorter textural explorations, light on any perceivable comedy (at this point, perhaps the other Excepter mainstay). But LATE's relative brevity proves its undoing; every time Excepter seem poised to hit on something, it's all over.Opener \"OBOH\" is a nightmare trip of whirrs and howls, an undulating threesecond convulsion repeated over and over. It's wonderfully nauseating, caustic, and rife with unease, but there's something almost mechanical about the performance; we seem to be plopped down into the middle of a fairly successful, lockedin improvisation, which turns over in much the same way every time its very brief theme is repeated. The best bits come when the elements appear just slightly askew, but those are all too rare, and minute two ends up sounding an awful lot like minute five. There's barely any build, so when the track ends abruptly to make way for \"LAL8\", it's jarring, but almost mercifully so.\"LAL8\" begins and ends with a thin synthetic pulse, an irregular heartbeat that gives the track its forward motion. A buzzy elephant graveyard synth smears through the backdrop as the rhythm intensifies, and the two seem to find each other around minute three, building to a slow but satisfying climax. Whereas \"OBOH\" felt excerpted from something larger, \"LAL8\" is given time and space to stretch out, and its fervid conclusion provides LATE with its peak. This is Excepter at their best, allowing their oddness to come to fruition, to reach its eventual endpoint. No point in being this bizarre if you're not gonna see it all the way through.\"Anastasia\" might be the most disarming thing here; though they've more than dabbled with ghostly dancefloor rhythms before, walk away from \"Anastasia\" a couple minutes in and you could very well convince yourself they've penned their first legit banger. Naturally, things are a little more complicated than that; any notion of cutting a rug turns quickly to cutting up a body, as the track grows busier and far more unsettling as it goes. The song's stuttershout eventually subsides, giving way to a swaying drone; it's a premature comedown for a novel groove that would've benefitted from a little more stretching out. Closer \"Cat Piss and Licorice\" starts out eerie and diffuse before arriving at an unusually delicate keyboard plink. The track, it seems, is a sort of antihomage to conversationending Internet meme Keyboard Cat; \"the cat piano was cute at first,\" someone moans at one point, \"but now it's on my nerves.\" Ditto the joyless \"Cat Piss\", which devolves quickly into mumbling.LATE's textures are alluringly dingy, its sense of dread palpable, its refusal to sit still a boon. But there's a real unfinished quality to these songs, whether they end too early like \"OBOH\" or simply don't have much going on like \"Cat Piss\". They're certainly capable of working well in miniature see the wildly successful Sunbomber EP but one can't help but escape the feeling that these are good ideas that simply weren't given enough time to hash themselves out. LATE will find fans among the Excepter loyal, and surely the seed of something bigger has been planted here. Amidst LATE's many sharp dropoffs and dead ends, however, it's tough to tell just what that might be. "}