{"label":" Crammed Discs","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15925/homepage_large.0bc5c880.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Tradi-Mods vs. Rockers: Alternative Takes on Congotronics","text":" In 1987, a French record label called Ocora released a cassette called Zaïre: Musiques Urbaines á Kinshasa. It was a set of four halfhour performances by four different bands, recorded in Kinshasa, Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo), in 1978. It was the first time Kinshasa street music ever made it out of Africa, but the timing wasn't quite right; preInternet, word of mouth could only spread this music so far. And it was up against a mainstream world music industry that didn't prize rawness or real African soundworlds. It went out of print, but if you can find it, it is very worth hearing.But that music couldn't stay hidden forever. In 2004, producer Vincent Kenis curated an album by one of those street bands that had been recorded in 1978, Konono Nº1, for Crammed Discs (they also recorded a live LP for Terp that year). Konono in 2004 sounded almost exactly like Konono in 1978 a bracing mix of headlong rhythm and interesting texture, created by foundobject percussion and crudely electrified likembe thumb pianos. This time, the timing (and let's be honest, the marketing) were much more fortuitous. Konono Nº1 crashlanded in the Western indie rock and avant garde worlds and were embraced wholeheartedly, and Crammed embarked on a series of \"Congotronics\" releases aimed at building a broader picture of Kinshasa's vibrant street music scene, which is comprised of bands from ethnic groups around Congo who amplify their traditional music to be heard over the urban din.Their latest Congotronics project takes a different tack. There's no doubt that Congotronics has had an impact in the West, and Crammed's Marc Hollander (who long ago was Kenis' partner in the band Aksak Maboul) asked 26 artists to contribute their own personal takes on Congotronics, and contributed one himself under his old Aksak Maboul banner. These artists took a variety of approaches: some wrote original music, some covered actual Congotronics songs or used parts of them as raw musical material, some sampled the source material, and others wrote music modeled on a specific piece. Each song is credited to the artist \"vs\" the Congotronics act that inspired the song (usually Konono or Kasai Allstars), and it's a hugely diverse, doubledisc grabbag by a group of contributors from Europe, the U.S., and Japan.Some tracks are related to their inspiration more in spirit than anything else. A good example is Tussle's spectacular funk workout \"Soft Crush\", which has a very loose relationship to Konono Nº1, dropping ethereal thumb piano patterns into its otherwise relentless stomp. Bear Bones and Lay Low's \"Kuletronics\" is like Congotronics via the BBC Radiophonic Workshop, directly quoting Konono Nº1's \"Kule Kule\", but transposing the likembe groove to odd, throbbing bass sounds and sprinkling the mix liberally with pinging sound effects and filtered, echoing noises. It's interesting to hear the inherent similarities between things that seem as disparate as, say, Konono and Andrew Bird. Bird's pizzicato violin loops on \"Ohnono/Kiwembo\" are nothing too out of the ordinary for him, but it's amazing how well the interlocking patterns he creates reflect an affinity with the band's likembe patterns.There are plenty of other highlights, from Shackleton's 10minute, spacedout \"Mukuba Special\", which features vocal interjections sampled from Kasaï Allstars, to Jherek Bischoff's very literal, amazingly heavy orchestral arrangement of \"Kule Kule\". AU's \"Two Labors\" is a crazy pileup of as many likembe rhythm patterns as possible playing at breakneck speed, while Oneida sucks the music into its own noisy psychedelic world. Juana Molina is one of several who adds vocals and lyrics of her own, bouncing her own melody off the patterns of Kasaï Allstars, whose call and response chants she samples into her own composition.Hollander has afforded each artist the chance to talk a little bit about his or her contribution, and reading the range of thoughts behind the tracks here makes for an interesting companion activity to listening. There are certainly ways a project like this could have gone wrong everybody avoids the biggest one, which would have been for a Western artist to try and perform the chants in the original music but the artists involved were given enough free reign and seem to have enough genuine appreciation for the music that the final result is a very pleasing listen that captures some of the spirit of the music without outright imitating or caricaturing it. "}