{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15939/homepage_large.48a29032.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"MellowHype","title":"BlackenedWhite","text":" As Straight Outta Compton nears its 25th birthday, it's nearly impossible for gangsta rap music to be legitimately shocking. We've heard thousands of drugdealing tall tales, bloody murder threats, and clinically minded sex propositions, and these days that stuff just breezes past. If anything, the Young Jeezys of the world are less precise and less disquieting than the Spice 1s of old. So when L.A.'s teenage Odd Future crew snarled its way into the public consciousness earlier this year, the effect was truly jarring in part because it was so unfamiliar. Here are 19yearold kids talking about sniffing coke and giggling about rape recroom shittalk that stings like a slap to the face. Crew leader Tyler, the Creator gargles kidnapping threats in a burnedout rasp way beyond his 19 years. Earl Sweatshirt, the crew's missinginaction 16yearold cult hero, tells you all about the choppedup girl and cop locked up in the trunk of the car he doesn't have a learner's permit to drive. So when the OF duo MellowHype open their new fulllength with a story about blowing off a final exam, it's a relief in a fullbody sigh sort of way. Compared to their crewmates, these kids are downright cuddly.Hodgy Beats, the rapping half of MellowHype, is a Wiz Khalifa stonerrap type who raps in a high, spacedout mutter that still makes him sound way more alive than the crew's other resident stoner, the somnolent Domo Genesis. He's not soft \"ligaments will dissolve\" is a typical threat, and he has no problems rapping over gun sounds on a track called \"Gun Sounds\". On \"Loco\", he namechecks 1960s Black Panthers with authority. But compared to a nutcase like Tyler, he's actually humane. Tyler makes two appearances on BLACKENEDWHITE. On the first, he leaves six cops dead. On the second, he offers up this: \"Fingers in the middle of bitches' bodacious buttcracks/ Enough fuckin' atheist rappers to get a nun slapped.\" This is Tyler on his best behavior, but these are still the two gnarliest moments on the fulllength. They're also the two most immediately arresting. With his laidback approach, Hodgy can be a weird fit for Odd Future a technically sound rapper who can adapt to a lot of different styles but who never sounds like a paradigmshifter. He's a strong supporting player but not much of a lead. So it's a good thing Left Brain, the other half of the group, is around.Left Brain, who doesn't rap, is every bit the lofi beat experimentalist that Tyler is. The twominute album opener \"Primo\" has great little keyboard plinks interrupting smeary synth wooze before everything slows down into a glitchedout, screwedup crawl. That's a whole lot of movement for a twominute introductory track, but it's typical of the whole record. Left Brain's tracks always mesmerize, but they never sit still. \"Gun Sounds\", \"Dead Deputy\", and \"Fuck the Police\" all work as muffled, homemade versions of the apocalyptic crunk bangers that Lex Luger makes for Waka Flocka Flame. \"Brain\" and \"Chordaroy\" are damaged, decayed takes on the lush, stringdrenched yacht rap that the Neptunes have been making for a few years. \"Loaded\" is frankly jawdropping, an evil blaring creep that sounds like what might happen if an ominous synthdrone type like Oneohtrix Point Never tried making rap beats. (Note to Oneohtrix Point Never: Try making rap beats.)Parts of BLACKENEDWHITE point toward what might happen when the Odd Future kids leave their terrifying selfcreated universe and engage with the world at large something that's almost inevitable now that major labels are knocking down their doors. \"Hell\" has a beat that's made partially out of someone muttering \"what the hell\" on a loop, but it also has an honesttogod R&B chorus, the first I've heard from these guys. After the crew has killed god knows how many women on tracks, bonus track \"Based\" features C. Renee, the first female rapper I've heard on an Odd Future song. (The R&B chorus doesn't really work; the C. Renee verse absolutely does.)But even as it nods toward accessibility, BLACKENEDWHITE works as yet another fascinating, bizarre, expectationdefying piece of work from a group of young artists who don't make anything else. And unlike the others, this one features zero rape threats. For neophytes, Tyler's Bastard is still the place to start; he's the group's figurehead and most talented member, and you really have to confront how fucked up these kids are if you have any interest in engaging them. But BLACKENEDWHITE pushes them closer to humanity without sacrificing the weirdness that's so central to their appeal. They're not out of surprises yet, and they probably won't be for a long time. "}