{"label":" Upset the Rhythm","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15938/homepage_large.7b6d35e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Former Ghosts","title":"New Love","text":" News stories about Former Ghosts, the group/collective led by Freddy Ruppert, usually make a point of mentioning the involvement of Xiu Xiu and Zola Jesus. While invoking the names of both a longrunning, wellrespected, uncompromising underground group and an upandcoming performer is a great way to sell prospective listeners on an unknown project, it's not really accurate as far as what Former Ghosts is. The best way to think of Former Ghosts is as the newest work from the man previously known as This Song Is a Mess But So Am I, a oneman group created by Ruppert as a coping mechanism for the untimely death of his mother. As A Mess, Ruppert offered listeners a Casiotonic take on Xiu Xiu's caustic and restless aggression, coupled with vocals that either paid slavish homage to Ian Curtis or adopted the fragile quiver found in Conor Oberst's more vulnerable moments. For better or worse, the music made as A Mess often lived up to the name of the project, coming off like a primal scream therapy session set to noise. Clearly Ruppert wasn't interested in creating music listeners could enjoy as innocuous background noise; he aimed to be a provocateur, creating sonics that matched his own inner turmoil.Former Ghosts started in part as an excuse for Ruppert and Xiu Xiu's Jamie Stewart to hang out and make synthpop together; Nika Roza Danilova (aka Zola Jesus), whose work Ruppert admired (and vice versa) entered the fold soon thereafter. There's a definite edge to New Love that feels distinctive; the drum machine hits and synth stabs have a five o'clock shadow showing beneath their New Romantic veneer. The lessthanflattering fidelity helps in that regard as well, presenting the image of new wave as conducted through the Tesla coils and Van de Graaff generators in a mad scientist's laboratory. In the hands of his charismatic guest vocalists for New Love, Danilova and Tearist's Yasmine Kittles these backing tracks come to life (when Jamie Stewart sings, it's in a backup role). On her two turns at the mic, Danilova doesn't sing so much as dominate, her forceful vocals laying waste to whatever's in their path. Kittles, a type of singer decidedly different from Danilova, takes another approach on her two tracks: She emits intermittent whispers and hisses like a subjugated triphop diva, instead letting the music take precedence.Given Ruppert's past predilection for dramatic singing, one would think his vocals would be a perfect match for these backing tracks. Unfortunately, he often doesn't rise to the challenge. The duet he performs with Kittles on \"Winter's Year\" bears this out; where she sounds at ease and at home, Ruppert seems to be fighting against himself to get the words out. On aggressive tracks like \"The Days Will Get Long Again\", his Oberstesque warbling gets subsumed by the hum and spark of the backing track. During more contemplative sections (like the beginning of \"Winter's Year\"), his singing smothers any prettiness in the instrumentals. Unabashed pop tunes like \"And When You Kiss Me\" and \"Right Here\" need a gentler touch than Ruppert's tincan singing can provide, while dirges (such as the appropriately titled \"Bare Bones\") are actually undercut by his tendency to overemote.It seems crass to suggest that Ruppert is a better singer when his songs aren't very songlike, or when he's more interested in screaming than singing. But with two albums as Former Ghosts complete, he hasn't yet hit on tracks that mesh well with his vocal style. Given the success he's had when other people take over vocal duties, it'd be interesting to see what would happen if he invited other likeminded (or oppositelyminded) people to sing his songs across an entire album, à la Stephin Merritt's the 6ths. Unfortunately, as things stand, the errors of omission in most Former Ghosts news stories are appropriate: Freddy Ruppert is the frontman of a group better served when someone else is center stage. "}