{"label":" Punch Drunk","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15952/homepage_large.90e23d04.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Worth the Weight: Bristol Dubstep Classics","text":" Those searching for an easy distillation of the aesthetic of dubstep could do worse than to fix on the name of the epochal label Punch Drunk. There's something in the onomatopoeia of it, and even more in the way it invokes feelings of being hit, slapped, pummeled, giddy, bruised. Imagine getting beaten up a little and drifting into a woozy, dizzy state, with cartoonlike birdies and stars circling overhead: That's the kind of dubstep favored most by Punch Drunk, a label that helped make Bristol, England one of the style's main flashpoint locales.Worth the Weight: Bristol Dubstep Classics a 2xCD set with 26 tracks surveys the sound of the city more than Punch Drunk per se. And more power to it. (A callout in the liner notes even casts Bristol as \"dubstep's second city,\" behind London, as it were.) The sound of Bristol as compiled here tends toward the generally dark and ruff and tumble, as is made clear from the first lurches and stabs of Pinch's \"Midnight Oil\". A pointed opener, it traffics in what sounds like Pinch's having decided, on a whim, to follow every kick of the bass with the beat of a snare drum placed everywhere it might sound slightly \"off,\" just to see what would happen. Heard the first time, it plays almost like the result of a game. But then it starts to reveal a pattern as it stretches out, a real organizing structure to a new sort of rhythm that proves to be less haphazard than it initially sounds.That kind of surprise and subsequent rush of new understanding is what makes dubstep, at its best, exciting. And there's a lot of it here, enlisted in different ways by the likes of Peverelist, Appleblim, Headhunter, Joker, Guido, and more. There's much to be gleaned from the difference between Pinch's brutish opening salvo and the second track, Peverelist's \"The Grind\", which floats and glides in all the places where Pinch trips himself up. And then from there to where Gatekeeper, in \"Tense Past\", bears down and simply stomps.Those first three tracks alone signal Worth the Weight's focus on the more rhythmic, lowend, and sober extremes of dubstep. The style's recent trends toward weird weightless smearing and especially soulful vocal pastiche don't get much play. Instead, for better and worse, Worth the Weight sounds almost fixated on the formidable. It's \"better\" in that none of the tracks is ever less than strong. But it's \"worse\" in the way that one can grow weary of hearing such shows of relentless strength in succession, without at least a little reprieve. Dubstep, in a club context, thrives on strange intraset swerves and spells of deep breathing. That's not to say there's no variety here between grim, haunting, decimatedplanet anthems like Appleblim & Peverelist's \"Circling\" and Joker's playfully wobbly videogame ooze. But everything on Worth the Weight is, in ways that can't be escaped, very heavy indeed. "}