{"label":" Future Noise","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15953/homepage_large.b75e6cb5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"The Orb / Youth","title":"Impossible Oddities","text":" Some of us have been waiting years for late 1980s/early 90s rave to have its moment of nostalgiadriven resurgence. For one thing, it's just seemed inevitable, as many indie bands would at some point ditch dancepunk for neogrunge. But also we're just plain greedy to reown some hardtofind tunes from the era when sampling and Roland synthesizers changed the sound of radio almost overnight.And in the last few years, newer acts, from Scandinavian indie pop bands to UK house producers, many of whom were kids at the time have begun to pay homage to early rave in earnest. Impossible Oddities collects the psychedelic popdance singles the Orb and their sampladelic friends released on the duo's W.A.U!. Mr Modo label as the UK's late80s \"Summer of Love\" gave way to the worldwide rave boom of the early 90s. If dubstep has recently picked up on early breakbeat hardcore's manic roughness, this is stuff you can hear referenced in the trippybutcuddly rave recreations of the Tough Alliance axis.Elements of R&B (Johnson Dean's chintzy, cheesy, pretty great \"Somebody Somewhere\") and reggae (Indica All Stars' \"Open Our Eyes\") and progrock (the naturesounds overload heard on an early demo mix of the Orb's \"Little Fluffy Clouds\") crop up throughout. But mostly these producers were working in idioms that were, for a few years anyway, totally new: Chicago acid, the sampleheavy party records of early instrumental hiphop, Detroit techno. To these import sounds, the W.A.U!. Mr Modo artists brought a very UK neohippie vibe. The track titles and producer monikers alone should give you give you an idea of the angle many of these artists (especially the Orb, informing the whole project) were working: \"Ashram House\", \"Tripping on Sunshine\", Sun Electric, Indica All Stars.Not quite right for one of Orb mainman Dr. Alex Paterson's legendary chillout nights, but usually too whimsical for a frenzied warehouse rave, these artists operated during a brief time when it was still possible to exist somewhere in the middle. It's stoner music with a funky pulse and none of the badtrip vibes of the harder, faster music of just a few years (or months) later. Compared to the crassest popdance stuff of the time think the huge riffs and learninaminute raps of Technotronic they practically have the grownup restraint of deep house. But there's still an appealing raveminded roughness and lack of pretension to the tracks on Impossible Oddities.Not all of it's essential; there are a few too many interchangeable breakplussynth tunes that were probably little more than DJ fodder even at the time. That's to be expected since this is a specific snapshot of one label's output. But if you've been digging the way the neoBalearic boom has been getting raveier recently think artists like Azari & III and Tensnake here's a nice, unexpected opportunity to catch the original vibe without resorting to lofi YouTube rips. "}