{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15960/homepage_large.6017eefe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Tobacco","title":"LA UTI EP","text":" Amidst the grimeflecked synth lines and lowriding melodies, the music Tobacco makes is, at its core, sensual. Considering the blownout beatmaker's visual fetish for pornography and disturbing images, that might seem faulty, but this isn't music you reach out and touch it practically swarms your senses, and you don't get much of a chance to get out of its way. Tobacco's main outfit, Black Moth Super Rainbow, laid the template for this synthsmothered sound on their breakout fulllength, Dandelion Gum. While that record was like a broken dam of warm liquid, Tobacco's latest solo effort, this year's Maniac Meat, was more like a halffunctioning spigot of scalding water: Melodies came in sharp, hardhitting bursts that attempted to burn your brain.Maniac Meat was more straightforward than anything put out by the BMSR crew but listening to it fronttoback still induced a sensory overload at points. Tobacco's companion EP, LA UTI, takes some measures to correct that. The concept rappers laying verses over Maniac Meat cuts, as well as a few new jams isn't novel in this endlessly reusable age, but the execution is surprisingly effective. A steady presence is exactly what this music needs in terms of an anchor, as the sheer anthemic nature of cuts like \"Lick the Witch\" and \"Sweatmother\" emerges from the mudsoaked ether it was previously lurking behind.Unfortunately, the function of the rapping greatly outstrips the actual quality. While it's enjoyable to hear the recently reunited AntiPop Consortium have fun over \"TV All Greasy\", they also struggle to keep up rhythmically, occasionally slipping from their internal rhythms while delivering stale, uninventive lines. Avantrap mainstay Doseone somehow becomes another functional cog in the twinkling crunch of new track \"The Injury\", and not much more; Chicago MC Serengeti, on the other hand, failingly attempts to match the sleazy drip of \"2 Thick Scoops\" in delivery. It seems like a lot of the guests here are trying to outweird the material they're delivering over, which is precisely why Rob Sonic's appearance on \"Lick the Witch\" works so well. Sonic rides the track's asthmatic gasps tightly, delivering surrealist details (\"A benchwarmer groom for greeting Marine Corps\") with a hardhead's conviction. Instead of getting smothered, you're basically getting punched in the face; Tobacco could stand to be this violent a little more often. "}