{"label":" Woodsist","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15962/homepage_large.3cee393a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Sun Araw","title":"Off Duty EP","text":" No matter how strange and slippery psychdrone journeyman Sun Araw's LP On Patrol was, it still felt very much of this earth. Sprawling and arid, you often found yourself transported to unfamiliar, awesome terrains, rendered even more fascinating because of their organic qualities. With Off Duty, the follow up threetrack 12\" (coupled with the two songs that comprise Boat Trip on the CD EP version), Sun Araw is once again creating a group of richly detailed songs that capture On Patrol's panoramic scope. Off Duty also feels like a walkabout of sorts, but most of the exploration takes place in the ruins.One of Sun Araw's greatest assets is his ability to afford these parched, postapocalyptic pieces a proper cinematic quality. \"Last Chants\" is enveloped by a hot wind that carries through even as Sun Araw introduces springloaded synths and an aquatic dub that ends up shaping the song. It's like stepping out of The Terminator and into the paranoid daze of a Mad Max movie. Another great accomplishment of Sun Araw's music is the simple yet magnetic use of loping rhythms, used here to suck even the prickliest of textures into the swirling, discombobulated funk.\"Deep Temple\" goes a step further, stretching these principles to their monolithic maximums, using strangled guitars and synths to balance out some of the noisier peaks. Remaining track \"Midnight Locker\", as well as the two tracks featured on Boat Trip, chronicle Sun Araw's commitment to gooey experimentalism. Though the most prominent psychedelic features aren't as immediately recognizable here, the dronestained details make up for the lack of inertia. \"In the Trees\" is spacious, surreal, and deeply invested in blending futuristic, industrial bits in with elements that sound both decades (blacklit guitar noodlings) and centuriesold (primordial chant suites). Like Off Duty and Boat Trip on the whole, it's further proof that few are doing this stuff quite as well as Sun Araw is these days. "}