{"label":" Bpitch Control","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15961/homepage_large.1acf0d2e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"We Love","title":"We Love","text":" We Love's debut album peaks early with a song called \"Ice Lips\". The title is very appropriate. The piece sounds frigid and remote, with layers of grim synthesizer tones implying some impossibly dark, endless frozen landscape. When the vocals come in, they're warmly human and overtly sexy. The two members of the group, Giorgia Angiuli and Piero Fragola, alternate their parts he's breathy and intense, she's assertive but serene. They never overlap, but they sound as if they could be tangled together, and face to face. The intimacy of their performance is exaggerated by its contrast with the chilly electronic tones of the track. If you can imagine Ladytron mimicking the sexual tension and minimalism of the xx, you're more than halfway there. It's a very evocative and impressive song.Unfortunately, the rest of the album isn't quite so profound. The Italian duo doesn't stray too far from the tone established by \"Ice Lips\", but their songs are hitormiss. Their best compositions are sexy and catchy, albeit in rather understated and introverted ways. \"Even If\", one of the album's highlights, sets a simple, repetitive singsong melody against a moody guitar figure that wouldn't sound out of place on an Interpol record, resulting in a stealthy earworm of a hook. \"Escape Destination\" and \"No Train No Plane\" are similarly subtle, burying reasonably strong melodic motifs in atmosphere and ambience. They fall short when they lean too hard on setting a mood. Much of the album is indistinct and forgettable, drifting by in a haze of plinking beats and bleeping keyboard notes. The mood being evoked is nondescript and typical of a lot of goodnotgreat 00s electronica vaguely melancholy, sorta uptight, overly serious. The tracks that go too far in this direction, like \"Cruise Control\" and \"White March\", are the flip side of \"Ice Lips\". Instead of sounding intimate and specific, they are aloof and abstract.It should be noted that a significant part of We Love's project involves fashion, and performances in which the two dress up in futuristic costumes. Of course, this aspect of their art is totally lost on record. Without having witnessed one of these performances, it's hard to say whether or not this adds anything to the music. However, just looking at photographs of the costumes, it's obvious that they are doing something sort of interesting. The suits have a familiar style derived from scifi movies and comic books, but intriguingly, everything you would expect to appear hard and rigid looks soft and flowing. Patterns appear where you would expect blank space. Cozy, pajamaesque fabric is contrasted with what appears to be pleather or latex. In some ways, their approach to visual presentation is the opposite of their approach to music. Whereas they go against convention in their costumes, their songs tend to be fairly generic electronic music, pretty much exactly what you would expect from something put out by Bpitch Control. They certainly have the skill to rise above unchallenging aural wallpaper; they do it at least four times on this record. It's just too bad they couldn't have been more consistent on this album. "}