{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15967/homepage_large.25b6728f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Ewing","artist":"Orange Juice","title":"Coals to Newcastle","text":" By the time Orange Juice released an album 1982's You Can't Hide Your Love Forever their early 45s were already the stuff of frustrating legend. Their first home, Postcard Records, had come and gone and left the band in the unfortunate position of having a stellar reputation based on material few could now hear. Everything they subsequently did was judged against those initial releases four lost singles which defined lovelorn, literate indie pop. Combined with their sputtering commercial fortunes, it gave Orange Juice an air of underachievement. Come the CD age and those first blasts of inspiration were well served compiled and recompiled, most recently on 2005's The Glasgow School. For most of the last decade it's been the group's later career that's fallen into shadow.This is a band long defined by unavailability. But no more: New box set Coals to Newcastle isn't just a lavish retrospective, it's the complete Orange Juice. More complete than complete, in fact: As well as The Glasgow School, a radio sessions CD, and a DVD, each of the group's four albums gets an expanded disc to itself, which means the sixsong Texas Fever is saddled with barely different alternate mixes. But most of the wealth of extra material is worth a play Orange Juice were never shy of throwing experiments onto Bsides, and tracks like \"Tongues Begin to Wag\" are droll sketches of their working process. The most treasurable rarity here, from a 1981 John Peel session, is \"Blokes On 45\", a medley of those early singles set to a fauxdisco backbeat and a vision of protoindie as an oldies' circuit variety turn.That was the essence of Orange Juice: They were always selfconscious, and they were usually very funny. The former came with the postpunk territory at the end of the box set there's a radio interview where Edwyn Collins talks about being \"into\" something then chastises himself for sounding like a hippie. The latter was more unusual, but wit and selfdeprecation are what links the jangle and rush of their first releases with the louche popsoul precision of their final ones. That and Collins' immediately recognisable voice a plummy, permanently amused croon.Collins was very cautious of pigeonholing he'd emerged talking about fusing pop and soul and then ended up sitting on the sidelines while the sword became the era's most overused. He resisted the idea that Orange Juice's career was a steady progression towards slickness. But that's unavoidably what it sounds like. You Can't Hide and second album Rip It Up are full of spashy, amateurish collisions of pop, funk, indie, and latterly African sounds which somehow resolve into joy. But by the final, selftitled LP there's a muscle and poise on tracks like \"What Presence?!\" and \"Salmon Fishing in New York\" that's completely absent from the band's earlier work.Collins' persona, and his love of melody and language, is what makes the contrast seem like a complement, not a tradeoff. His killer lines are best discovered for yourself, but a common thread is his talent for picking up on the odd little idioms of everyday speech: \"Here's some mud in your pretty eye,\" \"Poor old soul.\" It makes the songs at once more conversational and more articifial: At the end of \"Tenterhook\", his most smouldering song, he sings \"you tell me don't make any bones about it,\" and in the slowburning context it sounds deliciously odd and curiously moving.Coals to Newcastle is studded with such moments the real test of the indie soulboy was how they managed at ballads, and like Scritti Politti's Green Gartside, Collins passed it. The slow numbers help to offset the nonstop wryness, but the indended audience for this box wouldn't have a problem with it in the first place. This isn't an introduction: If you're not sure about Orange Juice, pick up a compilation first. If you've acquired the taste, you'll adore this, and welcome the opportunity to rediscover the group's less influential but often delightful latter days. "}