{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1476/homepage_large.0d2cb935.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"The Clash","title":"The Essential Clash","text":" We can't tell you anything about The Clash. Americans, that is. I heard \"Rock the Casbah\" on the radio as a child, but it was interchangeable with Neil Diamond's \"Heartlight\" and Billy Joel's \"Pressure\". Of course, I could've been eighteen in 1979 and I wouldn't have understood The Clash, because what the hell did Americans have to bitch about? With the exception of a few questionable riots, American dissent has been an ideological pose since assassination gutted our resolve in the late 60s. When The Clash played their famed series of concerts at New York City's oversold Bond's Casino in 1981, midtown was mobbed with the same mouthbreathing dopes that piled in pickups to see the Pistols down south in '78. Looking at budding documentary filmmaker Don Letts' footage from the stand, it's tank tops and disco coifs as far as the eye can see. Compare this to footage from the 100 Club in 1976, where most of the audience looks cooler than anyone ever will again. Devo's Mark Mothersbaugh nicely explained why bratty \"I don't wanna\" rebellion became so much more in the UK: \"England was much more fashionconscious than America... \"And poor.\"  Today, young Brits can't tell you anything about Lord Callaghan, water rationing, garbage strikes or daily bombings in London, disasters the result of stubborn royal pride. The \"punks\" in their gutters (and especially ours) are runaways, rebels and rave casualties, out to prove their independence in a sociological sense. While Joe Strummer's father was a diplomat, and his rebellion may have had more to do with philosophy, for most teenagers in late70s London, homelessness and poverty weren't fashion statements.  Still, no one could be further removed from that desperate, decrepit reality than a suburban American WASP born in 1975 what can I tell you about squatter's rights, starvation and strychnine?  I could tell you that during their meteoric rise, everyone from The Slits to Grandmaster Flash & The Furious Five opened for The Clash, that they coheadlined Shea Stadium with The Who in October 1982 (and you'd be shocked to find how many kids with Clash patches don't know this twenty years later); I could tell you that the deleted guitar line from \"Safe European Home\" was lifted from a Sammy Hagar tune Mick Jones heard on the radio, or that Keith Levene of Public Image, Ltd. legend was their original guitarist, but for the most part I'd only be repeating information from articles written during those moments, by esteemed critics like Greil Marcus, Ira Robbins and Jon Savage. Unsurprisingly, some very famous people have weighed in on The Only Band That Mattered.  What I can tell you is that, since my late80s introduction to the band when the only compilations available were Story of The Clash, Vol. 1 and the thenrare Black Market Clash 10\" (subsequently expanded and reissued on CD as Super Black Market Clash) no less than seven Clash retrospectives have been unloaded by CBS/Epic/Sony (contrary to AMG's virulent typo, The World According to The Clash was a promotional item, not a proper release, and I have to fess that our news department's subtle humor recently duped a number of college newspapers into reporting that Clash at Demonhead was one it's a Nintendo game).  Most of the studio raids were dubious. Check CBS Special Products' bogus Crucial Music: The Clash Collection and 1977 Revisited from 1989: the former is a very small bag of U.S. singles, and the latter a comparably valiant effort is an incomplete and arbitrary assortment of American rarities like tracks from the Cost of Living EP and the four cuts switched out for the belated U.S. issue of their debut album. 1991's Singles, released as a streamlined budget alternative to the Clash on Broadway box set, was an outrage. Until now, Story of The Clash, Vol. 1 (1988) had said it all: anything less was too little, anything more seemed too much evidence the overstuffed, 64track Clash on Broadway set, released just three years after Story and weathering inexplicable inclusions like \"Every Little Bit Hurts\", \"Jail Guitar Doors\" (a rock 'n' roll dud from the U.S. version of The Clash), and \"Ghetto Defendant\" (a less than seamless spokenword collaboration with Allen Ginsberg). Some fans are sure to cherish these less popular cuts, but they're inarguably inessential.  After years of haphazard, opportunistic reissues, The Essential Clash gets it right, comprehensively assembling all the best from the band's first set of songs and isolating great material from their endlessly contested lesser works. Let's end that debate once and for all: Sandy Pearlman didn't fuck up Give 'Em Enough Rope, The Clash just didn't have enough songs for a fulllength (a fate that befell the easily summarized Combat Rock as well). Next to bitching about PIL's Second Edition \"not sounding as good as Metal Box, man!\" the laziest copout in recordcollector circles is \"Sandy Pearlman ruined Give 'Em Enough Rope he produced Blue Oyster Cult, man!\" The Clash wanted Pearlman, because \"Don't Fear the Reaper\" is a masterpiece and, more to the point, Pearlman produced Go Girl Crazy, the first album from NYC protopunks The Dictators. With the possible exception of \"Guns on the Roof\" (and \"All the Young Punks\", if you have a soft spot for it), the great tracks from Give 'Em Enough Rope are here.  To settle another old score, Sandinista! was an abject failure. Don't kid yourself that you're a \"real\" fan because you've listened to it straight through more than twice. What you'll get out of that is purely academic, a familiarity to set you apart from the \"poseurs who only know their popular stuff.\" All that The Clash had to say about dub reggae and revolution was expertly woven together at a later date as \"Straight to Hell\". Spread thin over three LPs, Sandinista! cloaked thirtysix suspiciously slight tunes in the banner of \"experimental\" music, but it was an indulgent, spliffspawned power play and fooled no one: \"The Magnificent Seven\" and \"Police on My Back\" are the only songs on par with the band's already established genius. In a somewhat embarrassing bid to save face, the band whipped off the danceable white funk smash \"This Is Radio Clash\" just weeks after Sandinista! met with disastrous reviews and zero airplay.  While many are sure to argue this collection is more radio than Clash, you have to respect the inclusion of tracks like \"Ghetto Defendant\" and \"Stop the World\", indications of what lies beyond the band's defiantly political, yet universally accessible rock 'n' roll (let's not forget this is a band whose early success is partially due to that mindblowing cover of Bobby Fuller's \"I Fought the Law\"). But for one notable absence (\"Remote Control\", which is a saucy move given its history) and a few lessthanspectacular stragglers (\"48 Hours\", \"What's My Name\"), every song from both the U.S. and UK versions of The Clash are included, and in exchange for the missing cuts, you get the excellent early single \"Capital Radio One\". The classic firstwave punk anthems on The Essential Clash are the band's very best, and what good tracks you're missing out on are lesser facsimiles of those templates. London Calling, on the other hand, is impossible to reduce it's one of the most significant albums ever recorded. While the seven tracks included here are flawless, that's no editorial masterstroke as there isn't a bum track to be found on that record. Obviously, ignoring London Calling would be both commercially and creatively untenable, but the reason this expert collection can't communicate that record's glory is the same reason you must own it: London Calling is a perfect album from start to finish, a redefinition of both punk rock and the format's accepted boundaries. In short, a must.  A mostly chronological history, The Essential Clash draws to a close with the three excellent songs from their wandering finale Combat Rock, the album that conquered America. Most Yanks associate \"Rock the Casbah\" with its video, featuring living political cartoons of Middle East leaders and the band playing in front of an oil well the image seemingly ran on a loop at MTV until Thriller and Synchronicity came along. Twenty years later, we should be concentrating on its airtight funk rhythm, the unreal guitar reverb, and the barreling white soul piano playing behind.  \"Should I Stay or Should I Go\" enjoyed an initially less overt but still unfortunate popularity as one of the biggest fratrock anthems of the yuppie 80s, before shooting to #1 in the early 90s following its crass inclusion in a Levi Jeans ad. That popularity sparked and tainted Clash on Broadway, which to many fans felt like another cashin. The one undeniably valuable track on that set the unedited version of \"Straight to Hell\" (Combat Rock's and perhaps the band's most powerful moment) isn't reprised for The Essential Clash, which opts for the original album edit.  The parting shot on this doubledisc retrospective is unfortunate given the recent passing of Joe Strummer. Born a soulpoet and workingclass hero in voice if not stock, Strummer had reprehensibly rebuilt the band around himself after kicking Mick Jones out in 1984, unloading the unbelievably ironic Cut the Crap a year later. Though the track could serve as a memorial for his gusto, the flat production of the merely bearable \"This Is England\" should clue you in to how truly bland the rest of the record was. Cut the Crap professed a return to basics but housed no hits, no soul, nor any invention, as blindly egotistical a move as Jones' uniformed postClash dance act Big Audio Dynamite. After ten years together, the guys started to believe their own bullshit; it happens to every classic band, and we should do them the courtesy of ignoring their mistakes, giving the dead their justly earned glory.  Whatever complaints you can levy, this is a superbly assembled review of one of rock's greatest bands, on par with The Stones' Hot Rocks; were it not for the combined complacency of the recordbuying public and the overloading of Clash compilations on them, it would be a clearer case, but The Essential Clash lives up to its name, sidelining its predecessors and barely letting up over the course of forty defining tracks.     "}