{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15973/homepage_large.a32793dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Bjørn Torske","title":"Kokning","text":" Kokning, the title of Bjørn Torske's fourth fulllength LP, is a Nordic word that sounds ineffably lewd to American ears. It has no English equivalent, unless there's an obscure English word that means \"putting potatoes on to boil, going fishing, and then preparing the fish with the potatoes.\" The uniquely Scandinavian concept suits the uniquely Scandinavian music. Torske's blend of playful austerity and wistful wonderment can also be found in his Smalltown Supersound compatriots, from diskJokke to Lindstrøm to Kim Hiorthøy. The title also evokes the relaxed, patiently simmering quality of the album, which boils down Torske's longrunning fixations upon dub, cosmic disco, house, and Balearic sounds into a highly refined personal style. Sophisticatedly minimal, Kokning improves upon 2007's excellent Feil Knapp by retaining yet streamlining Torske's idiosyncrasies.To create the album, Torske recorded instrumental parts in various places and then edited them together with rhythm tracks. His sensitivity as a producer makes the album, for all the styles it lightly flits through, an organic roomtone odyssey at heart: alive with inventive sounds and warm with feeling. It opens with three wonderful, ultramellow cuts that slide you into Torske's soundworld with zero friction. On the title track, liquidly hypnotic phrases for clean electric guitar weave through shining ambiance, with just a couple of alternating plucks coolly marking time. \"Bryggesjau\" is a clipclopping set piece for acidbright guitar riffs in taut counterpoint, and \"Gullfjellet\" features rich nylon strings and watery synths, rooted by the calm thump of a kick drum. Besides their appealing sound palettes, the great thing about these tracks is how deliberately they take on definition. By the time the dancier middle run of songs come around, you're deeply immersed.This middle run is marked by lots of intricate hand percussion, funk progressions, and proggy keyboard swirls, though it retains the light  touch and hint of critical distance that characterize the opening tracks. \"Slitte Sko\" is the sort of casual, chiming beat workout that Arthur Russell liked to cook up, and \"Bergensere\" calls Prins Thomas to mind with its arch yet passionate funk. As the album progresses, Torske gets more unleashed, slathering \"Nitten Nitti\" with a goofyfun vocal synth arpeggio and framing stylized dub reggae with monsterparty samples on \"Versjon Wolfenstein\". After the more focused songs preceding it, the 12minute closing epic \"Furu\" is a bit longwinded for my tastes, but at least it feels earned. It also makes me feel Torske is naturally inclined to stretching out even his short pieces here have a sense of endless range which makes his restraint elsewhere all the more admirable. His shorter tracks have a dioramalike sense of compact but vivid detail, and the merest gestures make big impacts. Unflashy and muted, Torske gets less props than some of his peers. With any justice, Kokning will correct this slight. "}