{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15980/homepage_large.bae0b972.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Lord Huron","title":"Mighty EP","text":" Two EP's into 2010, and there's not a hell of a lot of backstory on Lord Huron. We do know that it's the alias of Los AngelesviaMichigan songwriter Ben Schneider, and although they're a full band live, everything on the EPs was performed by Schneider alone. That's about it. Predictably, much of the empty space has been filled with \"RIYL\" namedrops that haven't done anyone any favors. Not only is it the most reductive form of critique, but the things that stick out on a casual listen the AfroCaribbean percussion, the luminous, ascendant harmonies, the blownout reverb make Mighty come off like it's yet another bloggy bedroom product utilizing indie rock's most playedout resources. And yet, trying to box in Mighty only highlights what makes it an invigorating listen. It's something like a stylistic superball, bouncing off any wall you put around it.The title track fades in from watery echo, morphing into a blur of assorted percussion, steel drums, and something almost sitarlike as Schneider's whooping melodies carry \"Mighty\" ever upward. The Panda Bear comparisons are inevitable and understandable, but there's more propulsion, more stately purpose, and the lyrics espouse tapping into one's own primitivism, which ironically is a topic that Animal Collective stopped writing about years ago. But immediately thereafter, Mighty reveals itself as not really being of the zeitgeist at all. It's likely a result of Schneider's high lonesome twang recalling My Morning Jacket's Jim James, but the phrase I keep thinking of in regards to Mighty is \"Bermuda Highway\" the tropical trimmings are crucial to establishing the hurtling momentum of what are rangy road songs at their core.This is especially true of \"Son of a Gun\", which explores both wanderlust and plain old lust over a swaying waltz. The earlier Into the Sun EP showed that Schneider has a way with hotblooded confrontation that's pleasantly jarring within the billowy production, and that certainly holds true here, as he relates how infatuation eventually evolves into a coldblooded vengeance in a woman wronged by that same man. That it's all under the same fever dream emphasizes how both feelings are merely points on the same continuum. The sonic dichotomy is most pronounced on \"The Stranger\", where American roots instrumentation (pedal steel, mandolin) are smeared together with bongos and shakers into a hypnotic gallop, bringing to the fore the biggest flaw in the ongoing criticism of white boys copping international rhythmic influence: With so many sonic possibilities available to us, what, exactly, is admirable about strictly adhering to a codified American indie template?Mighty ends on a somber note with \"When Will I See You Again?\", the one time where Lord Huron really feels like the solo project it is. Schneider's lyrics run alternately spiteful and accepting before the last thing you hear is him repeating the title, holding on to some glimmer of hope for reconciliation. It's here that the ties to preZ My Morning Jacket really start to show: Instead of obscuring Schneider's voice, the grain silos full of reverb make it superhumanly expansive. But more importantly, no matter how far into the clouds he gets, beneath it all is gutlevel, emotive songwriting that hits directly and honestly. "}