{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/15975/homepage_large.9c90a347.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Einstürzende Neubauten","title":"Strategies Against Architecture, Vol. 4","text":" The original Strategies Against Architecture collection, released in 1984, collected some of Einstürzende Neubauten's earliest recordings. The material's still a little shocking 26 years later, if only because there's very little else that sounds like it. Pounding on scrap metal and playing with power tools, the early Neubauten made a feral and highly rhythmic brand of punk noise. A large number of Neubauten imitators sprang up in the 1980s, banging away on oil drums and shopping carts, but none of the copycats played with the intensity of the originators. Its some of the only music out there that sounds like it was actually painful to make.The band captured on Strategies Against Architecture, Vol. 4, which collects material from 2002 to 2010, is obviously not the same band, even if it shares many of the same members. Neubauten were able to wring a surprising amount of drama and invention from their original, abrasive toolkit, but even still, by the mid 80s they'd taken that harsh, stark clanging about as far as it could go. If the original SAA had a frighteningly singleminded sound, SAA4 is all over the map, a good onestop introduction to the varied ways the band's tried to move beyond its scorchedearth beginnings over the past 20 years.Neubauten once made a virtue of destruction; their name translates to \"Collapsing New Buildings,\" a phrase which captures the girdersnapping intensity of those early records very well. Neubauten almost had to lighten up a little, both physically and artistically, to survive three decades. So while Neubauten's still more likely to make music by taking jackhammers to the Brill Building, they're no longer opposed to concepts like melody, quiet, and nuance. Some of SAA4's most affecting moments the buzzing, transfixing drone on \"Insomnia\"; the mix of gamelanstyle percussion and musicbox IDM on \"Jeder Satz mit ihr Hallt Nach\" and \"Weil Weil Weil (Freie Radikale in der Warteschleife)\" are its most restrained.But Neubauten haven't exactly mellowed over the last 20 years either. Right from the very first song, \"Perpetuum Mobile\", there are constant reminders of the style that made the band famous, but with a thicker, richer, layered sound. If albums like SAA and 1981's Kollaps sound like shrill field recordings from a particularly gruesome factory mishap, even the brutalist Neubauten of the 21st century has a psychedelic lushness, the tribal end of Krautrock meets the immersive soundwash of experimental electronica. So dark as things can get, this is still a supremely listenable set, and that's what will be most surprising for those who know Neubauten by early reputation alone. Playful and menacing, gentle and ugly, SAA4 has a range that no one, probably even the band itself, would have thought possible back in 1984. "}