{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/15981/homepage_large.87e13e12.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Telekinesis","title":"Parallel Seismic Conspiracies EP","text":" The exclamation point that punctuated Michael Benjamin Lerner's selftitled debut album as Telekinesis felt presumptuous. There were some sugary powerpop gems on that record, but they were outnumbered by altrock with tempos that ranged from a midpaced walk to outright footdragging. Perhaps that's why it's a little surprising when one is reminded that Lerner's a part of Merge's stable; his songwriting style uncannily resembles that of the bands featured on Death Cab for Cutie's premajor label home, Barsuk for better and for worse.Maybe Lerner agrees: Telekinesis' new EP, Parallel Seismic Conspiracies, suggests as much. The fivetrack release a sort of teaserholdover until the project's forthcoming sophomore fulllength, 12 Desperate Straight Lines embraces a scruffy, homerecorded sound absent from the debut. The jump to lofi could be cynically seen as trendjumping at a point where a great deal of new bands are setting up studios in their parents' basements, but it turns out to be a good look for Lerner, adding a sense of rougharoundtheedges charm that suits his songwriting talents well. Not a single song on the EP which itself just pushes a 10minute running time goes over three minutes, which makes the immediacy of new songs \"Dirty Thing\" and \"NonToxic\" more potent.Elsewhere, \"Calling All Doctors\", a somewhat grating pianoled lowlight from Telekinesis!, gets a muchneeded facelift, as spiky guitar lines and a driving beat turns the previously sadsack ballad into an enjoyably neurotic earworm. The sprightly rework highlights a new confidence evident on Parallel Seismic Conspiracies, one that perhaps led to a pair of illadvised covers: Guided by Voices' \"Game of Pricks\" and preJoy Division outfit Warsaw's \"The Drawback\". There's nothing specifically wrong with Lerner's take on the former if anything, that's the problem. It's merely competent and feels unnecessary. The latter, on the other hand, showcases Lerner's technically impressive drum skills with fasterthanfast fills, but his at times wideeyed voice sounds illfitting when wrapped around the original's wordy, political lyrics (\"I find a promise in confessions of true faith/ And hypocrisy that always lies within\"). Lesson to learn: It's okay to stray from your comfort zone just don't go, you know, too far. "}