{"label":" Permanent Vacation","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/15991/homepage_large.fd4b28e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Permanent Vacation: Selected Label Works, Vol. 2","text":" In just four years, the Munichbased Permanent Vacation has amassed one of the most aerobic, headnodding catalogues in all of electronic music; they are almost definitely the best label to share their moniker with an Aerosmith album. Excuse the gag, at least a little, because the label shares some of the band's tendencies to offer streamlined, updated versions of classic sounds in this case, late80s and early90s house. Its roster loads up on galloping pianos, squelchy synth patches, and hoarsethroated divas chopped into inspired repetition. More than being just retro retreads, Permanent Vacation's roster has excellently integrated prevailing subgenres Balearic, space disco, italo into weightless, endlessly replayable jams.The mileage you get out of deciding whether a track is really space disco or Balearic disco will... vary, so suffice it to say that Select Label Works 2 features, back to back, Tensnake's \"Coma Cat\" and Azari & III's \"Reckless (With Your Love)\", or two of the most ubiquitous house hits in recent memory. When they play, concerns about defining exactly what is playing will vanish. As Permanent Vacation still thrives on vinyl, SLW2 isn't a label primer or showcase; it's a compendium of the label's recent singles (and the ironhot inclusion of 2010's \"Coma Cat\"), most of which are seeing a CD for the first time. The label has been ridiculously productive, with Selected Label Works 2 marking the second twodisc comp since 2009 (the label also curated the uneven If This Is House I Want My Money Back). The mix is split pretty evenly between the abouttoexplode (Azari & III, John Talabot), the exploding (Tensnake) and the exploded (Sally Shapiro).If SLW2 has a defining characteristic it's the ease with which these tracks command a room. Aside from obvious crossovers like Four Tet and Pantha du Prince, much of the year's best electronic music (Shed, Jon McMillion, Scuba) were triumps of nuance that could have been stamped \"not for beginners.\" SLW2 is different: The hits feel like buckets of water to the face. The interceding tracks are turned in by solid veterans (Phillip Lauer's noteperfect, pianodriven house anthem \"Delta NRG\") or potent newcomers (Pollyester has two tracks of their swampy boogie remixed; Moonoton cozies up with 1980s R&B). Label heads Tom Bioly and Benjamin Fröhlich, who record as Permanent Vacation as well, turn in the cinematic, ominous \"Zucker Hut\". The inessential material you probably don't need two mixes of Woolfy vs. Projections' \"Neeve\", for instance serves as a reminder that SLW2 is a singles comp, Bside warts and all.Selected Label Works 2 is fun without being goofy. It is music for your treadmill and your pregaming; it is music to which you dance with strangers until they don't seem like strangers. When I listen to it, I hear music that is unstressed and unconcerned, and whether you hear echoes of Frankie Knuckles or Patrick Cowley or no one you've ever heard at all, its grooves will seem welltrod in the most welcoming of ways. "}