{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15994/homepage_large.28bc539a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"British Sea Power","title":"Zeus EP","text":" British Sea Power have always possessed a flair for broad, sweeping anthems. But 2008's third fulllength, Do You Like Rock Music?, took those impulses one step make that one thousand steps further. That record found the Brighton band attempting to ascend to the lifeaffirming, milliondollar chorus ranks of stadiumready rock merchants like U2. It was a gamble, and in retrospect, it paid off thanks to their flair for structure and earpleasing melody. Even the most ardent fan, though, had to wonder: What if all this blustering ambition had outstripped the actual songwriting?Zeus, BSP's new EP leading up to their forthcoming LP, Valhalla Dancehall, answers that question. Unfortunately, that's probably the most positive thing you could say about the release. Zeus is bloated in the most indulgent sense, right down to the running time and song lengths (42 minutes for an eightsong release, with three tunes careening well past the sevenminute mark). Unlike their previous rockoriented releases, there's no unifying theme running throughout the record. Multiple stylistic shifts take place from song to song or, in the case of the overstuffed opening track \"Zeus\", within a single tune. This grabbag conceit makes it hard to pinpoint what, exactly, went wrong here: is it the AutoTuned(!) glam rock of \"kWh\", or the skronky fauxmotorik of \"Mongk\" that directly precedes it? Did the aptly named closer \"Retreat\" need to be nine minutes long? Does the ultrafiltered shouty goof \"Can We Do It?\" need to exist at all? There's very little here in the way of the meaty hooks and melodies that were once the band's trademark.Zeus feels more of a housecleaning release than anything else, and the promotional materials describe the EP as a \"wild and wunderbarwonky precursor\" to Valhalla Dancehall. The preview of that record offered here, \"Cleaning Out the Rooms\", is a case in point. The song is as overstuffed as the rest of the EP, but its ethereal build suggests Sigur Rós at their most crushingly beautiful even though there's not much to grab on to other than that perpetual swell. There's a new album on the horizon, but Zeus is still disappointing. They've taken time to flex their experimental muscles o good effect, (see: last year's film soundtrack Man of Aran), but the return to big rock and proper songs is unconvincing. If you want to create anthems, you need to get people singing along. "}