{"label":" Sub Rosa","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15993/homepage_large.b6a4c8b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Charlemagne Palestine","title":"Strumming Music for Piano, Harpsichord and String Ensemble","text":" In the liner notes for the new 3xCD set Strumming Music for Piano, Harpsichord and String Ensemble, there's a newspaper article from 1974 recounting how Charlemagne Palestine, at a concert in New York, \"broke things off\" a little more halfway through what was to be a fourhour performance. He was playing a piano piece composed with a new technique in mind, but he wasn't happy with the piano he was provided. It was a Steinway, not a Bösendorfer. And so it was that Palestine found himself realizing he simply could not should not soldier on. What's striking there isn't the fact that a musician had issues with his setup, or the difference between two exalted kinds of worldclass pianos. It's that Palestine was twoandahalf hours into a single piece when he decided that things just weren't adding up.The three compositions that make up Strumming are all about the ways that sounds can exhibit spectral effects when pushed beyond their bounds or left alone, or both. Palestine's \"strumming\" technique can be summed up as a method of repeating, repeating, and repeating again. But unlike certain kinds of repetition that lie back and lure a listener into divining effects that may or may not actually exist, Palestine's strumming pieces convey a sense of the composer himself leaning in and muscling such effects into being.Disc One features \"Strumming for Bösendorfer Piano\", performed by Palestine in 1974. It starts out gently, with a little innocuous tinkling, but over the course of 52 minutes locks into a flurry of reiterated notes and chords that churn out different kinds of overtones. The sounds of those overtones are ethereal, ineffable. But overtones are concrete and real, and Palestine starts to play in reaction to them creating still more overtones, until the effect turns into a kind of natural acoustic feedback loop. There's nothing dainty or implicit about it. Palestine is a notably physical presence whose way of playing of coaxing by way of banging invokes the piano's status as a fundamentally percussive instrument. But there's something innately ghostly about the sounds that surface, like bleary trumpets in a dream or whirring testtones heard from a distance.The effects are less striking in the other two pieces. \"Strumming for Harpsichord\", performed by Betsy Freeman in 1977, transpires in a similar fashion, but mostly in an upper register on an instrument less roundly resonant than a piano. On Disc Three, \"Strumming for Strings\" is more of a drone, developing slowly and without a manic sense of rhythm in the foreground. Neither is as magisterial as the one for piano, but both are hypnotic and transporting in their own way. Taken all together, the music of Strumming and its effects sound somehow both discovered and designed. It's like the glints and refractions that figured into early days of spirit photography, when people saw ghosts and metaphysics in what could have just as easily been explained away as a scratch in glass. But what, in the case of music, is the glass? "}