{"label":" Interscope / Konichiwa / Cherrytree","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/15921/homepage_large.f5245a98.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Robyn","title":"Body Talk","text":" \"Fembots have feelings, too.\" When we first heard Robyn sing those words, on a single promoting what would become a threevolume set of miniLPs all bearing the name Body Talk, it was easy to focus on the Swedish pop singer's quirky sense of humor. But on this new fulllength edition, \"Fembot\" also reveals itself as a compelling statement of purpose. Playing off contemporary pop's ageold divaasrobot trope and cautioning that fellow droids who \"burn out\" are \"ready for demolition,\" Robyn is a pop star who first and foremost projects a need for emotional connection.If that's Robyn's artistic credo, then Body Talk is living, breathing, cybernetic proof. Melding dancehall with bubblegum pop, heartbroken love songs with hilariously catty weirdness, and euphorically catchy melodies with propulsive rhythms, Body Talk which combines the fivesong Body Talk Pt. 3 with, outside of Pt. 1's uncommonly wise \"Cry When You Get Older\", the highlights from the first two minialbums is a deeply affecting pop record. Robyn may not have released three full albums this year as first implied, but her first true fulllength in five years is one of the year's best.What sets Robyn apart from her contemporaries is the threedimensional complexity of her character, and all sides are on display here. There's plenty of don'tfuckwithme attitude in the icy electrothrob of \"Don't Fucking Tell Me What to Do\", which introduces a shittalking heroine who may be flawed but won't be anyone's pawn. And with production by Diplo, the mockoutrageous Jamaica homage \"Dancehall Queen\" proves she's not kidding. But she's also sensitive enough that, during one of Body Talk's most inspired moments the soaringly tuneful electropop ballad \"Call Your Girlfriend\" she tells her boyfriend exactly how to break it off with the other woman to inflict the least emotional damage.However, the highlight from this Year of Robyn remains the gorgeous \"Dancing on My Own\". What's especially remarkable is that there was any room for improvement: The track appears here as an ampedup \"radio remix\" with bonus synths giving the lovelorn chorus an extra wallop. But then again, Robyn is a master of reinvention: \"Indestructible\" and \"Hang With Me\" were first released as emotive acoustic ballads, and later given revvedup Eurodisco overhauls that ramped up the intensity without sacrificing an ounce of their bittersweet charm. Those are the versions included here, and both lend further ammunition to Body Talk's already militarygrade stockpile.Robyn's willingness to experiment with album conventions may feel like an ingenious gimmick, but there's no artifice to the desire for human connection that underlies her vocal quiver and partystarting kickdrums. She communicates heartbreak so convincingly that some of her most devoted fans actually wonder online about her presumed loneliness. She also attacks the charts from the fringes. She explores the fringes from the charts. She should be universal. So why isn't she? With Body Talk, Robyn ups the ante for pop stars across the radio dial and raises her own chances of appearing on yours. And for all her threealbum talk, she never forgets that cardinal rule of showmanship: Always leave them wanting more. "}