{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16000/homepage_large.070bdf98.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tal Rosenberg","artist":"Koen Holtkamp","title":"Gravity/Bees","text":" Koen Holtkamp is onehalf of the postkosmische duo Mountains. He and his Mountains partnerinchime Brendon Anderegg gradually and intermittently layer different instruments mostly guitars, but also rattles, melodicas, and wood blocks using an array of pedals, eventually retreading into their laptops to wield the resulting chaos into a breathless, engulfing whorl. As a solo artist, Holtkamp crafted the most elaborate and varied record in the Mountains discography, 2008's Field Rituals, which found him obfuscating field recordings though erosion and effects, then playing symphonic and folksy guitar and keyboard parts over them. Gravity/Bees is no less expansive in sound, but it's a smaller and more specific record.The album, as its title suggests, is binary: Its two tracks, \"In the Absence of Gravity Please Note the Position of the Sun\" and \"Loosely Based on Bees\", scrape the 15minute mark. Each is an alteration of a performance: The first morphs a live show in Brighton; the second, bees working in a hive. Unlike many of the selections on Field Rituals, which pulsated and liquefied, the two works here are horizontal and gaseous. The misty tones and harmonicas that open \"In the Absence of Gravity\" are punctured by the tapping stabs of acoustic guitar strings, imparting a spatial interference that is jarring at first but pleasant with more listens.\"Loosely Based on Bees\" has a more perverse trick up its sleeve: The opening murmur of bees is not the violent buzzing we might expect they're soothing and soft. But as instruments are added on, the music becomes more confrontational, as do the buzzing sounds. The implication is that things we find most frightening can often be peaceful, while things we find comforting can also end up frightening.Like Field Rituals, Gravity/Bees is pleasant in sound but not dull enough to sink into the wallpaper. But unlike Field Rituals, its simultaneous expansion of space and reduction of texture makes it a little less confrontational. It doesn't make it less contemplative, but it's the kind of music that drifts, occasionally distracting yet otherwise hypnotically distant. "}