{"label":" Hardly Art","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16005/homepage_large.3e34c9d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Carissa's Wierd","title":"Ugly But Honest: 1996-1999","text":" As of this writing, the Wikipedia history of the Seattle group Carissa's Wierd begins with a sentence about its final show in November 2003. There's nothing about how the band formed, where or how they recorded, or when they tour; instead the entry rounds up the members' current projects. This curiously cursory timeline implies in retrospect at least that Carissa's Wierd was defunct even before the members played their first notes together back in 1995. And while it took them eight years and a handful of releases before they actually went their separate ways, their bittersweet well, mostly bitter songs about leaving always hinted at that inevitable end. A sense of insoluble disconnect is reflected in the band's sprawling song structures, in the tension of the plodding drumbeats, in the pinpricks of guitar, and especially in the asymmetry of Mat Brooke's and Jenn Ghetto's overlapping vocals, which resemble a Robert Altman script set to music.Now, seven years after that final performance, the band sounds best as an obscurity, one of too many Pac NW groups that had a good run to nowhere and made its biggest impact when its members moved on to other projects. Thanks to offshoots like Band of Horses, Grand Archives, S, and Sera Cahoone solo, as well as to the efforts of Seattle's Hardly Art Records, Carissa's Wierd has grown slightly more popular in recent years. Following the careerspanning comp They'll Only Miss You When You Leave: Songs 19962003 earlier this year, the label is reissuing three of the band's long players on vinyl and digital (skipping CD altogether), lending the band minor retrospective relevance. This rearviewmirror treatment, unsurprisingly, suits the music exceptionally well, as it adds even more gravity to their guarded, emotionally scoured mopefolk. That there are no bonus tracks on any of these reissues actually makes good sense: At this point, pretty much every Carissa's Wierd song plays like a rarity.Aptly, Carissa's Wierd's first LP was itself a retrospective: Ugly But Honest collects songs from 1996 through 1999, and either by luck or by design, the collection has a clear thematic throughline, which links all these skewed songs into the band's best and boldest statement. Here, the members introduce the elements that would define Carissa's Wierd. The album possesses the shambolic vibe of 90s indie, but the compositional sprawl suggests Built to Spill, while the postrock abstractions recall Godspeed You! Black Emperor. But these early songs reveal just how immediately and naturally they settled into a unique sound Ugly But Honest sounds less a debut by a young band and more like the work of seasoned professionals with too many shows at too many halffilled venues under its belt. \"One Night Stand\" opens with a weightless melody and subtle vocal flourishes from Ghetto, then breaks down selfdestructively, as if the band set fire to the tapes as they were recording. It's an odd resolution to the song, suggesting not only an ambition to be more than simply sadbastard background music but also a compelling desire to deflect emotions too troubling to convey directly.After such a strong statement on their debut, You Should Be at Home Here, from 2001, sounds tame, a bit too polished and perfected. It's their first proper studio album, and the setting allows them to indulge new ideas without venturing too far from the parameters of Ugly. The sudden, unexpected climax of \"The Color That Your Eyes Changed with the Color of Your Hair\" magnifies minor details of a relationship to majestic purposes, as Brooke and Ghetto trade off vocals so it's impossible to tell who is singing lead. That moment aside, these songs remain mostly muted and restrained, which makes the album a bit tedious. Flipping over the vinyl to get to side two provides a welcome break.Songs About Leaving, from 2002, sounds fascinatingly hesitant, as if by then the band were barely holding together. Recorded with Chris Walla of Death Cab for Cutie, the album simultaneously showcases their fullband sound on \"September Come Take This Heart Away\" and \"They'll Only Miss You When You Leave\" while isolating the instruments slightly, as if to reinforce the loneliest aspects of every part. In general, Bridwell's drums are absent over long passages, but instead of emphasizing the repetitive quality that nearly sunk the previously album, it generates more tension and fragile despair on \"A New Holiday (November 16th)\" and \"The Piano Song\". At times these songs sound more like demos than finished products, which is apt. On \"So You Wanna Be a Superhero\", the overlapping, mismatched guitar licks provide a bed of briars for Ghetto's wounded vocals: \"I might be leaving soon,\" she sings, a statement that grows more ominous with each repetition. Songs About Leaving is all the more devastating for being the band's final act.Together, these three albums tell a story of arrival, tentative variation, and inevitable collapse, but perhaps what's most remarkable is that you don't need to know the band's history to distinguish that narrative arc. In fact, listening to this loose trilogy makes their 2003 breakup, which came on the heels of a crosscountry tour that both exhausted the band and established some early success outside the Pacific Northwest, sound like an act of conviction and commitment. In that stalwartness there is a sense of finality: Where could they possibly go from here except on to other things? The end of Carissa's Wierd was truly its beginning. "}