{"label":" Family Edition","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16024/homepage_large.f119d037.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Tanlines","title":"Volume On","text":" Even though Jesse Cohen and Eric Emm of Tanlines do plenty to honor the spirit of their name (and yes, that is a MiniDisc on the cover), don't be so quick to lump them in with every other nostalgia junkie cluttering Brooklyn. It's actually fitting that the 2xCD Volume On is a Europeanonly release, since Tanlines' blindingly bright synthpop has more in common with jetsetters like Tough Alliance, Delorean, and Studio acts that are influenced by the sounds of the tropics rather than just the idea of them.You won't get much of an idea of what Tanlines actually sounds like from Cohen and Emm's backgrounds (Professor Murder and Don Caballero, respectively). But what has been carried forward from earlier projects is a labrat work ethic that makes Volume On more than a bunch of obvious signifiers. Sure, the kick drum insistently hits on every beat and the percussion tempts Miami Sound Machine jokes, but the songs here are always playful and never pushy. It's dance music if you want it to be, maintaining a Balearic vibe without being wholly tied to it.It's hard to say if Tanlines' real strength is production or songwriting, but Volume On has its share of highlights where they do both. \"Real Life\", the song that has become Tanlines' signature track, is a regular presence here. In addition to its original version, there three remixes of the song on the second disc, including a smearedlens rendering by Memory Tapes. The song endures even in the dead of winter in large part because it's the best showcase of Emm's odd melodic charm as a vocalist, and \"You might think I'm still that way... It was a pastlife thing\" stands up as a strangely affecting mea culpa.More prominent here than on this year's Settings EP, Emm's vocals are a strange, sonorous thing that occasionally morph into something Stinglike but also have the goforit spirit of the Rapture's Luke Jenner (who appears here on new song \"O Seizing The Day O\"). By the same token, his voice doesn't work particularly well in isolation. Like on the acoustic version of \"Real Life\", which is startling any way you slice it. It's a complete sonic anomaly within the confines of Volume On, but Emm's vocal delivery isn't altered one bit and turns out to be entirely at odds with the arrangement.Volume On isn't officially Tanlines' first album, but it doesn't sound like a hastily cobbledtogether bid for yearend lists either. In fact, it holds together almost too well. They work within a pretty narrow range of BPM's and the textural sleekness can have a dazing cumulative effect over the span of Volume On's hourplus runtime. Nonetheless, the promise is there. Tanlines obviously know how to properly book an island getaway, but it could really be something special if they can learn to diversify the itinerary. "}