{"label":" Chemikal Underground","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16032/homepage_large.ff6baa76.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"The Phantom Band","title":"The Wants","text":" Phantom Band's 2009 debut, Checkmate Savage, was the sort of record that's usually described as \"ambitious\" because the songs are longer than five minutes and utilize instruments other than guitar, bass, and drums. But rather than strain against one's limitations, the Glasgow sextet displayed rigorous poise on that record. They were playing with heavy stuff Can, Beefheart, Waits, to name a few but with the help of producer Paul Savage (formerly of the Delgados), they produced a stately, distinctly British, and often impressive record that never let them get ahead of themselves. Little more than a year later, you can take the title of The Wants as an indication of a hunger for more. While Phantom Band maintained their motorik song structure and instrumental curiosity, these songs are more fluid, polar, and knottier, matching with the hovering environmental dread of Richard Anthony's lyrics. If you're a junkie for production ethics and have highfived someone due to a really awesome job of stereo panning or a bassoon recorded just right, this thing is a field day. Though mallet percussion plays as integral a role as guitars, The Wants is never cluttered for its own sake, still sounding like a couple of guys jamming out in a room with an inordinate amount of toys. But the richest instrument in their arsenal remains Anthony's vocals a wisened Scottish burr that particularly carries gravitas in his preferred lower register. Anthony's capable of donning a number of seemingly contradictory guises: His nearfalsetto shines on the New Romanticism of \"O\", and his bristling vocals save both the otherwise forthright \"Come Away in the Dark\" and the first, adultcontemporary half of \"The None of One\". The singer's versatility ultimately becomes the humanizing and distinguishing characteristic amidst these ornate dioramas, whose construction recalls that of peers like Elbow or the Divine Comedy, bands that tend to their songs almost like museum curators instead of rock bands. But that's the problem with museums: Only in rare cases are you allowed to interact with them. As impressive as their studio work ethic is, too little of The Wants sticks around once you exit. Take \"Everybody Knows It's True\": The layering and panning of the band's harmonies are an impressive feat of arrangement, but like so much of The Wants, it trudges forward, unable to build momentum through tempo or melody. I think back to These New Puritans' Hidden as a record that also swore off easy hooks; yet that band realized that if you're going to eschew big hooks or direct lyrics, you need some bustyourshitopen beats or unorthodox textures to make up for it. Phantom Band build patiently, but the toorare moments of catharsis the doubletime raveup after the expertly restrained acoustic section of \"None of One\", the apocalyptic drum clatter that ends \"Goodnight Arrow\" only stresses how The Wants is an admirable record that could've used a few more fist pumps and fewer golf claps. "}