{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16025/homepage_large.65dfde7f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Blood Red Shoes","title":"Fire Like This","text":" Blood Red Shoes have been hiding in plain sight. Since 2005, the Brightonbased duo of drummer Steve Ansell and guitarist LauraMary Carter have released a handful of singles and one album, 2008's Box of Secrets, on major label V2. They've toured extensively at home, throughout the EU, and been billed at festivals from ATP to Pukkelpop.They mostly forgot about the United States, though. While their postpunk peers and countrymen Foals, Arctic Monkeys have made frequent sojourns to American shores, Ansell and Carter have, for whatever reason, kept primarily in Europe. The band's first wide stateside exposure has come only recently, via the soundtrack to the Michael Cera flick Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, which includes their song \"It's Getting Boring By the Sea\". It's too bad it took so long. Blood Red Shoes are an excellent riffsandrhythm rock band they make classic bashandscrape music with a debt to 1990sera heroes Fugazi, Drive Like Jehu, and Nirvana.Now word is starting to get around a little more. This fall Blood Red Shoes completed one blinkandyou'llmissit U.S. tour, and the band's sophomore effort, Fire Like This, has gotten a worldwide release, though it's iTunesonly in North America. It's as good an introduction to the band as any Blood Red Shoes haven't altered their sound too much over the years. But Ansell and Carter are clever enough shuffle the familiar elements around. Album opener \"Don't Ask\" hands over the chorus immediately, then falls back to a stopstart verse. They use the same trick on \"Keeping It Close\" seizing attention with the hookiest, highest volume riff.Ansell and Carter are relatively young 24 and 22 respectively but they've been around long enough to know how to avoid clichés. Ansell in particular is an old hand. He was a founding member of postpunk outfit Projections and emotional noisemakers Cat on Form, who released a few records on Southern. Both sing here, but Ansell gets most of the good lines. He has a bratty but melodic delivery that keeps the strippeddown verses chugging. Carter isn't bad, either, but she's too often stuck on ballad duty. The best moments come when they play off of one another trading off lines and alternating backup duties, like the interplay on \"One More Empty Chair\".On Box of Secrets, the pair limited their arrangements to herkyjerky blasts of distortion and drums. On Fire Like This, Blood Red Shoes favor slow builds stretching out repetitions for big, noisy crescendos. Those handsintheair moments are not always within their grasp, however. Carter's \"When We Wake\" gets tedious during the threeminute climb toward its inevitable fuzzbox stomp. But \"Colours Fade\" unfolds into headbanging abandon. In its best moments, Fire Like This strikes a balance between heartfelt and heavy. Blood Red Shoes may be squathall sized, but they are arenaequipped. "}