{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16023/homepage_large.e9de24a8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Spoon","title":"Bonus Tracks 2008-2009","text":" Over the course of the past decade, Spoon have earned a reputation as one of the most meticulous and stylized studio perfectionists in rock. Their aesthetic is unmistakable the percussion is crisp and inthepocket, the instrumentation is bone dry, and tight performances get juxtaposed with moments of offthecuff improvisation. Their style is so distinct that when Britt Daniel and Jim Eno have exported it to various artists they've produced such as White Rabbits, Anya Marina, and Sally Crewe, they all end up sounding more than a little bit like Spoon.Given all of this deliberate studio craftsmanship, it's a little bit surprising that they've made a practice of releasing a steady stream of demo recordings on their official website. After all, most artists this particular about their sound tend to shy away from putting out anything that isn't flawlessly executed. Clearly, Spoon are not hung up about that sort of thing: The 10 demos and alternate versions on Bonus Tracks 20082009 present the band at their most sloppy and casual, offering hardcore fans an intriguing glimpse into the group's creative process without entirely demystifying what they do.Aside from having been initially given away as free mp3s on the Spoon website between 2008 and 2009, there isn't any particular rhyme or reason to the selection of recordings in this set. Aside from the nonalbum tune \"In the Right Place the Right Time\", all the songs are from Kill the Moonlight, Gimme Fiction, or Ga Ga Ga Ga Ga. In come cases, like \"Rhythm & Soul\" and \"Don't Let It Get You Down\", the arrangements and performances aren't much different from what ended up on album, though the recording is a lot more raw and lofi. These cuts aren't particularly interesting or useful. It's more fun to hear them put a country rock spin on a familiar song like \"You Got Yr. Cherry Bomb\", or attempt a version of \"Was It You?\" that integrates elements from electro and Afrobeat.Only a couple of tracks offer any sort of clear window on the band's songwriting process. The version of \"My Mathematical Mind\" here is especially rough and bare bones, sounding almost as though Daniel is still writing the song as he plays it while ad libbing silly provisional lyrics like \"I'm gonna try chickenfried snake.\" He's similarly playful and loose on the \"writing exercise\" version of \"Eddie's Raga\", which is about half the length of what appears on Ga Ga Ga Ga Ga though more or less fully formed.The most frustrating thing about Bonus Tracks is that for a compilation of this nature, it's not nearly complete enough to be satisfying. It's over and out in less than a half hour, and while that may be perfectly reasonable in terms of listenability, this small arbitrary collection of demos only scratches the surface of what ought to be the band's answer to the Beatles' Anthology or Guided By Voices' Suitcase series. While it's nice that the band apparently values concision even when it comes to vaultclearing stockingstuffer releases, it seems to miss the point of putting this stuff out there in the first place. If we want to listen to an album, we'll put on one of the studio records. However, if we're feeling nerdy enough to check out a band's unfinished demos, it's better to pore over dozens at a time while attempting to glean some insight into their methods. Maybe that would be giving too much away, but honestly, if Spoon are going to go this far with things, they may as well go all the way. "}