{"label":" Deathbomb Arc","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16035/homepage_large.0eaabe7f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Jason Forrest","title":"Utopia EP","text":" Full disclosure: I have been licked by Jason Forrest. However, I'm probably not alone, as Forrest presumably tonguebathed many a supporter in the midaughts while touring on the back of his two wonderfully spastic fulllengths, The Unrelenting Songs of the 1979 PostDisco Crash and Shamelessly Exciting. At the time, laptop artists warranted notice for outperforming a statue on stage, but Forrest's sugarrush antics raised the bar for pointandclickers everywhere, showing that it was possible to create a party atmosphere around a guy playing air guitar to his laptop. Of course, in the four years since Forrest last released music under his own name, laptop dance parties have become a common sight, with Girl Talk the scene's reigning superstar. Forrest meanwhile hid behind his cheeky breakcore/remixer pseudonym DJ Donna Summer, concentrated on curating his labels, Cock Rock Disco and Nightshifters, and invented an iPhone sampler app. But with the quiet Soundcloud release of this EP and big plans for 2011, Forrest seems poised to reclaim his rightful place in the world of sample abuse. Put mashup artists on alert where Girl Talk and compadres are content to punch the nostalgia button dead center, Forrest prefers to nibble around the edges with his copyright infringement. Consider \"My 36 Favorite Punk Songs\" from Shamelessly Exciting, which is exactly what it says, but dices each sample down to almostsubliminal length, weaving out of those microfibers new material that is simultaneously punk and punk's mortal enemy, prog. The final product is better than fair use; it's novel use. But the DJ Donna Summer experiments may have siphoned off some of Forrest's partyrock playfulness, as Utopia suggests his frenetic style has been infected with something resembling maturity. Recognizable samples and skittering drumbeats two hallmarks of Forrest's usual style are scarce, and the tone of the record's brief 13 minutes is less a danceable prank than a cinematic short. Opener \"Ciccone Youth\" (named for Sonic Youth's classic piece of lawyer chum) is even downright doomy, slowly fading in on anxious backwards strings and ominous buzzings before dropping in martial drumming, simulated heavy breathing, and modem bleeps. The title track contains Forrest's most familiar rhythmic stutterstep, if sparser than usual, but it's over in less than a minute, bleeding back into another chilling soundscape: \"Infinite Organ\", haunted by guitar drones and horrorflick piano. Only the closing \"Goldbluff\" satisfies one's classic Jason Forrest craving, combining classic rock carpet swatches a bit of Garth Hudson organ here, some Chicago Transit Authority horn stabs there and crafting a piece of violet, headbobbing psychedelia that survives a lateterm disintegration into bitcore. But just like that, the enticing glimpse of Forrest's old tricks is over, decaying to field recordings of slot machines. EPs are funny things; some are previews, some are diversions. If Utopia is a teaser of Jason Forrest's postmetamorphosis state, he's leaving behind the facelicking, yielding the floor to the mashup mashers, and moving into more ponderous territory. But given Forrest's prankster past, I wouldn't bet on it. "}