{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16034/homepage_large.34a7d736.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Shackleton","title":"Fabric 55","text":" Sam Shackleton approaches dance music cautiously. He does this both personally (shuttering his dubstepaffiliated Skull Disco label, moving to Berlin) and artistically (his intricate, pattering rhythms can take months to program). Fabric 55 is one step further into the dance world, expanding on the stolid gray sonics of 2009's Three EP's for a nightclub/label at the center of the techno community. But Fabric 55 a studioreproduced mix of Shackleton's set at the club featuring plenty of new material doesn't see Shackleton cast his hat into the ring of prominent DJs so much as affirm his status as an inspired squatter of whatever scene he inhabits. In his review of the first Skull Disco compilation, Tim Finney said \"Shackleton's production can seem like statues... waiting for someone to enliven and animate them.\" On Fabric 55, Shackleton plays the animator himself, carefully stitching together his own already careful work. Like Fabric DJs Omar S and Ricardo Villalobos before him, Shackleton mixes exclusively his own material. He doesn't necessarily shed new light on his work, but the shorter, more transitory nature of the tracks here releases them Shackelton himself enlivens and animates his own productions. Shackleton all but abandons his Skull Disco tracks, cutting his already tenuous ties to dubstep. Instead he focuses on bizarro earworms (\"Negative Thoughts\") and still more Middle Eastern vocal samples. Strung together they reveal an alien noir, one whose soundworld is complete enough to divorce you from the feeling of listening to techno. In a homelistening context, it's often easier to file him alongside Coil and your Edward Gorey prints as Michael Mayer or Skream. If Shackleton's rhythms previously served primarily to hollow your mind in order to better contemplate Deep Dark Thoughts (see: \"Death Is Not Final\", \"I Am Animal\", etc.), they now highlight his idiosyncrasies, the tilted drum timbres and haunting vocal melodies he seems completely subservient to. Shackleton's craftsmanship lends his work a resilient delicacy. His idea of a big buildandrelease DJ moment appears to be to ratchet the tension up one halfnotch and then sneakily ratchet it back down, before anyone gets too excited. The twopart \"Man on a String\" suite features furious, jazzy hand drums and a tiptoeing synth line in what amounts to an explosion of activity. Shackleton has always been kin to minimal techno producers, but Fabric 55 isn't spare so much as careful and modest. Fabric 55 is world music in the most literal sense: It is a Londoner living in Berlin composing dance music with African rhythms, reggae melodies, and Far Eastern vocals. Shackleton does this using a computer, and he does it not to educate or out of deep respect for these cultures and traditions; he does it because these are some sounds he's heard and he likes them better than other sounds. I think this augurs well for Shackleton's future, even if Fabric 55 sounds like a weird purgatory between the vitality of his early singles and his next true breakthrough or changeup. This mix lingers and waits; it stirs and then settles again. Rather than a career retrospective or a greatest hits package, Fabric 55 is a thoughtful moment in a singular producer's trajectory. "}