{"label":" Obscura","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16039/homepage_large.99d32d36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"White Sea","title":"This Frontier EP","text":" Morgan Kibby first came to our attention when Anthony Gonzalez drafted her from MySpace to sing on M83's album Saturdays=Youth, a newwave revival that might as well have been called Cocteau Twins=John Hughes. The blissful retrohomage carries over on her solo project, White Sea. This Frontier opens (on \"Mountaineer\") with Kibby's layered voice intoning, \"It's a teen dream,\" over a mountainous synthesizer and a cascade of electronic drum pads. It's familiar territory here in teenfixated 2011, when, even as 90s mania is in full swing, we just can't shed the 80s. Lighthearted and wellbuilt, the EP captures Kibby in transition, between emerging under the wing of a bulletproof band and defining her own style, which already lurks amid all the glossy nostalgia. It's a roundly enjoyable if embryonic electropop debut. Kibby favors more svelte, less majestic productions than M83, and set free from the anesthetic coo Gonzalez required of her, it turns out that she can seriously sing. Her approachable and earnest delivery can occasionally tip toward cheesiness, though it's mostly winning, and Kibby sculpts it a little differently on each song. Her singing can be floridly enunciated like Imogen Heap, sweetly petulant like Tegan & Sara, or breezily swinging like Metric's Emily Haines. It's matched by a diversity of productions, from the politely sleazy nightdisco of \"Ladykiller\" to the frosty pseudoItalo of \"Cannibal Love\". The dilettantism isn't a problem, but the topicality feels generic, and the bottlenecking reference points don't give us a clear picture of what makes Kibby unique. The best track, \"Overdrawn\", emphasizes her greatest asset the mobility and naturalness of her voice against a clean, speedy backdrop of bassy synth stabs and buoyant claps. It's more convincing than the Chromaticsstyle iciness she affects on \"Cannibal Love\" or the Fever Rayish abstraction of \"Oljato\". If This Frontier feels like a dancepop starter kit, that's essentially what it is. Kibby did have a little help: Jonathan Leahy provided disco bass lines and preppy postpunk guitars, Jonathan Bates did some mixing, and Ray Suen wrote string arrangements. But mostly it's the product of her teaching herself Pro Tools after finishing her big tour with M83. For such a new producer, she has a sharp ear and a direct style. Her classically inclined tracks are a dynamic fit for her voice, and they benefit from her smart, sparing use of cutup vocal rhythms, splashy drum accents, and cinematic texturing. It suggests that lighter and more concrete formats, rather than darker and more abstract ones, fit Kibby most productively. Now that she's learned to make a solo album that shows us what she likes, she's primed to dig a little deeper next time, and show us something of who she is. "}