{"label":" Def Jam","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16033/homepage_large.392fd1c1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Ghostface Killah","title":"Apollo Kids","text":" Anyone surprised by the allR&B, mostlyWTF? direction of Ghostdini: The Wizard of Poetry in Emerald City should be studying Ghostface's art: ever since signing to Def Jam and temporarily dropping the \"Killah,\" it's been like watching the aftermath of Weezer's Pinkerton flop over and over again. Though we got some undeniably great music in the process, it felt somewhat ancillary to \"Tush\", \"Back Like That\", the \"Back Like That\" remix, bummed out interviews, and hiring Diddy's production team for Big Doe Rehab all pretty clear actions of someone who takes his poor commercial fortunes very personally and isn't trying to be anyone's idea of a cult act. Of course, none of it worked in the slightest, so even if it was a giant fuckyou to his hardcore contingent, Ghostdini was at least understandable as the culmination of years worth of frustration from someone who felt like he ran out of crossover options. Or, as Ghostface said in Only Built 4 Cuban Linx, \"I'm hanging this shit up if this shit don't work.\" On its face, Apollo Kids is a weirdly deflated concession from both parties: Twelve spartanly named tracks, barely over 40 minutes of music, a ton of guests hailing from Ghost's inner circle, a rehashed album title, and a near total lack of promotion: If Ghostface didn't have a Twitter account, there's a good chance we wouldn't be aware of this thing's existence. But isn't that what we were all clamoring for after the desperate shilling of Ghostdini? At the outset, it would sure seem so. Apollo Kids plays out something like a lowerstakes version of The Pretty Toney Album, no RZA but plenty of that record's timehonored breakbeats, blaxploitatied guitars, and swallowedwhole soul samples. It's the kind of stuff that his harried intensity always sounds viscerally powerful over, even if the rhymes aren't prime material. He doesn't throw his darts sideways anymore, but without sort of bullshit clutter, he's still an incredibly ostentatious lyricist, just one that's easier to parse. The record's opening trio is evidence enough of that: on \"Purified Thoughts\", Killah Priest and GZA add their typical ballastheavy musings on metaphysics and crack sales to Ghost's boasting of feeding children in Benin and \"Africans chantin' me on like Coachella.\" When matched up with a more comparable style, Busta Rhymes helps turn \"Superstar\" into an Olympiclevel track meet of fastrap, while Ghost and Cappadonna appropriately spaz out for \"Black Tequila\". And while \"Handcuffin' Them Hoes [ft. Jim Jones]\" is possibly the least promising run of words ever to grace a Ghostface tracklist, there's still an illicit glee in how lines like, \"And I ain't even gotta be dipped/ I pull out my pocket two sloppy joe mitts this thick!\" counter the problem that some of his most lockedin performances as of late come at the expense of tactful gender relations. While the music and the personnel are all comfort food for Ghostface, Apollo Kids still leaves something of a strange aftertaste. The basically arbitrary sequencing never allows too much momentum to build, and the lack of any sort of organizational principle makes it come off seeming more slappedtogether by Def Jam interns than an Event release befitting Ghost's rep. But the larger issue is that Apollo Kids feels like a record that's good because it never dares to be great. Even on Ghostface's more uneven LPs, there are always reasons to think of Ghostface as a victim of his own prolificacy rather than someone who can no longer make a legit claim as one of the greatest rappers ever \"Alex (Stolen Script)\", \"Maxine\", \"White Linen Affair\", to name a few. That \"2getha Baby\" and \"How You Like Me Baby\" didn't spark much buzz in advance shouldn't be a surprise, as they feature the kind of clockpunching rhymes (\"She look like she get it from her mama/ That's right Michelle I'm Obama\") that Ghostface is supposed to be an alternative to. Those are two of the three songs on Apollo Kids that are solo joints (the other being \"Starkology\", which is so minimal it's barely there), and the most troubling aspect is that Apollo Kids makes a strong claim as Ghost's best LP since Fishscale, and he's hardly on it. You'll never have to question whether foot soldiers like Shawn Wiggs, Trife Da God, and Sheek Louch are going to try and bring whatever constitutes their Agames, but Ghostface should never get outshined by the likes of Joell Ortiz when it comes to criminology. \"In Tha Park\" also is somewhat underwhelming for a song that features two of the best voices in hiphop on the same track for the first time; yet whereas Black Thought's invocation of fights at the Spectrum and outoftown ice skaters feels steeped in personal history, Ghost's hiphop origin story comes off like he's told it dozens of times. It's hard not to feel conflicted about Apollo Kids. Unlike Ghostface records that presumably get unfairly judged by the standards of his best work, it's tempting to overrate it due a general relief that he didn't try to make Ghostdini again. And even if the initial buzz of simply getting a new LP wears off pretty quickly here, it's not to the point where \"no Ghostface\" is better than \"new Ghostface.\" But as with the aforementioned Weezer, Ghostface's weakest output is coming at a point when he's releasing more than ever, and differentiating correlation and causation just gets harder and harder: I realize the days of spicedout Calvin Coolers are long gone, but it's also been enough time since the relatively earthbound Fishscale that I'm not certain the remedy is just slowing the fuck down. "}