{"label":" In the Red","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16064/homepage_large.9b296709.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Parting Gifts","title":"Strychnine Dandelion","text":" Greg Cartwright doesn't duet enough. With Oblivians and especially Reigning Sound, he has documented love's fallout from an inescapably male perspective, painting women as both the perpetrators and victims of emotional violence. Men suffer and inflict just as much pain, which means the genders are pretty well matched in his songs. Yet, aside from a brief dalliance with the Detroit Cobras, we rarely hear from the other parties in his songs or get any other side to his sad stories. The Parting Gifts, however, provide a Loretta to his Conway, a Nancy to his Lee namely, Coco from the Ettes. The band itself is a pickup group featuring, among others, Cartwright, members of the Ettes and the Greenhornes/Dead Weather, and (at least on record) Dan Auerbach of the Black Keys. But Cartwright (who produced the Ettes' most recent album, Do You Want Power) and Coco are the two mainstays, writing and singing almost everything on the band's debut, Strychnine Dandelion. Coco may not possess the same eloquent despair Cartwright conveys so effortlessly, but she does have a youthful sass and smartass phrasing that contrasts eloquently with his more mature hounddog burr. On \"Bound to Let Me Down\", they trade verses like jaded lovers, exchanging blame and recrimination with winetinged kisses: \"How do you stand so straight when your mind is so crooked?\" they ask each other, before concluding with a mutual kissoff: \"Walk your crooked mile and think of me.\" That's actually the only song from Strychnine Dandelion to feature vocals from both of them, but it's enough to flesh out all the you's in their songs and to create a he said/she said vibe throughout the album. Cartwright gets more songwriting credits than Coco does, but ultimately it sounds pretty well balanced, with each airing their romantic grievances and subtly pushing the other out of his or her comfort zone. Sounding like a young Tammy Wynette working with a precrazy Phil Spector, Coco anchors \"My Mind's Made Up\" and \"Born to Be Blue\" in specific predicaments a love triangle, an abrupt departure and makes them sound like supercharged Ettes tracks. Cartwright opens the album with \"Keep Walkin'\", a strident, catchy number that sounds like a refugee from Reigning Sound's last album, but he stretches out as the album progresses, enlivening \"My Baby Tonight\" with an Elvis lip curl and instilling \"Shine\" with the sweet excitement of a secret crush. The Gifts themselves are surprisingly versatile, especially for a pickup band. They kick out \"Staring\" with the jittery rumble of early Love, then instill the cover of the Stones' \"(Walking Through the) Sleepy City\" with a DIY wall of sound. Stylistically, Strychnine Dandelion is all over the place, but that pan60s diversity may be one of its most winning traits, as the Gifts make everything sound lively and modern. It's unclear whether the band will end up being a oneoff, but even if there's no followup, Strychnine Dandelion has already fulfilled its mission by making Cartwright and Coco sound rejuvenated and ready for another round of heartbreaks. "}