{"label":" Tectonic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16058/homepage_large.375562d0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Scientist","title":"Scientist Launches Dubstep Into Outer Space","text":" Asking a veteran of dub reggae's golden age to remix a bunch of dubstep tracks seems like a roomofmirrors effort in selfacknowledgement, a concept that echoes off itself as deeply as a reverbed snare hit. With most of dubstep's appeal already fully present in the bassheavy sonics of its more traditional practitioners, where else is there to go with a dub remix? For dubstep producers, the most memorable remixes are exercises in rhythmic tweaking or deeply altered melodic interplay drawing on the lineage of 2step, hardcore, jungle, and UK funky to fundamentally reconstruct a track's beat. But the great dub producers of the 1970s and 80s worked more closely with the rhythms they already had, opting to further draw out lowend dynamics through engineering tricks and manipulating the space between the beats. When a track already uses those dynamics to start with, how much deeper is there to go? The spirit of a somewhat redundant \"metadub\" is the big Catch22 with Scientist Launches Dubstep Into Outer Space, and it's a problem that's at least somewhat sidestepped. If you're familiar enough with the likes of Scientist Encounters PacMan or Scientist Rids the World of the Evil Curse of the Vampires, it's not hard to imagine the dub producer's aesthetic miledeep bass, cavernous drums, notes split apart and phased across space and time applied to the artists on the Tectonic roster. Of course, that's also a prime aesthetic of the Tectonic roster itself, so what Scientist adds to the songs on this collection, if anything, is a subtler alteration. When he gets into the innards of a track, he can use a few wellplaced shifts in emphasis to create entirely new moods: Kode9 & Spaceape's \"Abeng\" is twisted inside out into a more tense buildup, and after stripping all the elastic bounce out of Jack Sparrow's \"Red Sand\", he makes it hiss and bristle turbulently. When he sticks to the surface well, I'm still trying to find the differences between Guido's \"Korg Back\" and Scientist's dub, aside from a bit more echo somewhere in the middle. That said, this compilation's character is a bit deceptive. Despite the noble, if sporadically executed, attempt to connect dubstep to its roots, the real draw of this collection is the new and unreleased recordings from artists on the Tectonic label. And no complaints on that front unearthed tracks from the likes of Shackleton, King Midas Sound, and Roly Vex'd are always welcome. Those three artists alone should give you an idea of the scope Scientist had to work with: The spacious percussive austerity of \"Hackney Marshes\", the loversrock shudder of \"U\", and the assaultive wobble of \"The Long Way\" are evidence enough of dubstep's ability to redefine its own parameters. Factor in the aforementioned Guido track's glimmering futurism, the borderlinegothic triphop nod of Pinch & Emika's \"2012\", and the muffled, lowslung intensity of longlost Mala cut \"City Cycle\" previously available only as a radio rip and you've got as wide an outlook of the genre as you can ask for. That a crucial forefather was given the opportunity to tinker with it all? That's a pretty choice bonus. "}