{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16057/homepage_large.bbe9c7c4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Gorillaz","title":"The Fall","text":" \"It can be anything you want it to be. This is the nearest we have got to seeing what I would call a universal machine.\" That's British artist David Hockney talking about the iPad. Hockney does sketches on his, using an app called Brushes, and several of his works are already hanging this month in an exhibition at the Pierre BergéYves Saint Laurent Foundation in Paris. Hockney is presumably drawn to the novelty as much as to the functionality of Apple's curious device, which is like a big iPhone that won't make calls, or like a small laptop without a keyboard. Rather than render it redundant or limited, those disabilities have made it as universal as Hockney attests, attracting hundreds of thousands of users ranging from my mom to Damon Albarn, who recorded the new Gorillaz album on his iPad. The Fall, released for free on Christmas, is a nice marketing gimmick and the product of Albarn's restlessness on tour. While Hockney's sketches clearly look like they were done on some kind of computer, nothing about Albarn's songs reveals their origins. Instead, The Fall possesses the crisply eccentric production value of a typical Gorillaz album, which may be a testament to the iPad's ability to manipulate and combine sound files with little loss of fidelity or complexity. On the other hand, it doesn't appear to handle hiphop very well. The Fall contains opens stretches of loping, belching beats that are painstakingly crafted yet often sound like they've been created as backdrops for MC cameos. But there's only one guest, a barely recognizable Bobby Womack on \"Bobby in Phoenix\"; otherwise, it's Albarn singing and creating songs, which gives The Fall the feel of a solo album. At times it needs other voices to liven up some of these long stretches. Even so, it's fitting that Albarn has released it under the Gorillaz moniker. For one thing, that band has always had a strong visual component that makes the cartoon/hologram characters seem like they were meant to be up and downloaded, so it's not hard to imagine them trapped in an iPad like General Zod at the end of Superman II. Songs like \"Revolving Doors\" and \"Detroit\" have the same hazily martial beats that have marked the Gorillaz' output since \"Clint Eastwood\", which makes The Fall slot neatly into the Gorillaz catalog. It's less a proper album like Demon Days or Plastic Beach more an auxiliary item like that live album or that GSides comp or that remix album (or, in Albarn's career as a whole, like his lowkey, homemade Democrazy set.) Albarn's mode may be somber and roadweary, but there's not a whole lot of heft here, which means it sounds like a unified outtakes record rather than a major statement. Thematically, it's a tour album, leaving behind the Pacific Ocean trash island of Plastic Beach for the highways of America, evoked in songs named after Phoenix, Aspen, Dallas, Detroit, Seattle, and Amarillo. With its rangey beats and garbled transmission noises, \"The Parish of Space Dust\" imagines a Texas as expansive as the cosmos, but it's just enough to make you wish Albarn had incorporated some southwestern influences the way Plastic Beach used island rhythms to bolster its setting. Despite the emphasis on atmosphere that pervades the album and that seems like a necessary byproduct of its creative technology, The Fall may be the most earthbound Gorillaz album yet and at times, therefore, the most banal. At his best, Albarn manages to create an alien ambience, as if visiting America has made him feel as outofplace as certain travelers must have felt around Roswell. Still, he's always passing through, never stopping for a visit, and as a result, The Fall is a blur. Whether as an album or as a touring document, it doesn't add up to much of a statement, which means the particulars of its creation will probably always overshadow whatever life this album may find. "}