{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16070/homepage_large.2cabf266.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Yeasayer","title":"Live at Ancienne Belgique","text":" Yeasayer's first two studio albums, All Hour Cymbals and especially Odd Blood, veer from upwithpeople transcendence to a unique brand of treacly annoyance on a nearly songbysong basis. Determining whether the former justifies or excuses the latter isn't always clear. What I am sure of is that their live show aims for uplift and often gets there. Their singles have been fantastic across the board, and as such, if Live at Ancienne Belgique plays its cards right, it would be the best Yeasayer record to date. Though Live was released during the holidays for free on Yeasayer's website, they didn't exactly have carte blanche: this is a document of them touring Odd Blood after all, not a real chance to create a Greatest Hits. Still, the first two inclusions from their latest record here feel pretty comprehensive in summing up all angles of Yeasayer. Besides already being a choice cut from Odd Blood, \"Madder Red\" is performed beautifully as the opener, the confident work of a band that's toured themselves into something more purposeful and virtuosic, nailing every contour on the swooping falsetto hook while the vocals ache tenderly. But with \"Rome\", one the few indie rock songs of recent vintage that instantly remind me of Phish, the band barely keeps the arrangement together over its bouncingball beat. Yeah, there's plenty hackysack about Yeasayer, but if Live helps us remember anything, it's that this is a pop band, not a jam band (and besides, there's an aside about their snazzy gray suits to update you on their fashion sense). These songs often pop with big hooks, the drones are more about blissing out than tuning out, and they definitely don't ramble while the elastic highlight \"O.N.E\" could conceivably go on as long as they want, they let it stretch out a deserved amount, recognizing it's the point where Odd Blood hit its stride. Otherwise, not much stage banter, no rarities, no soloing. As a progress report of Yeasayer, the most valuable aspect of Live is the exposure of the connective tissue between two records of highly varying sonic character. All Hour Cymbals felt at home when African influences and Animal Collective were truly starting to lord over Brooklyn in 2007, but it was hindered by sounding like it was produced by Kirby, everything puffy, drifting, and expansive like a floating marshmallow. In its original incarnation, \"Red Cave\" was a bowlpassing hoedown, but here, it's rendered with spacious expanse and clarity. And while Odd Blood took a hard left by embracing a modernized take on 1985's State of the Art pop production, previously wigged out and bogged down numbers like \"Grizelda\" and \"Strange Reunions\" scale back the overzealous Pro Tooling to reveal handcrafted and ultimately penetrable sonic environments. With these things, armchair quarterbacking is inevitable, but that's part of the point \"I Remember\" feels like a pretty egregious exclusion, and a personal choice would've been the doomy dirge of \"Wait for the Wintertime\", just to show they could go out of character. Then again, some of these songs beg to be replaced \"Mondegreen\" is no longer saddled with its soulclapping gospel aspirations, instead rolling out over clattering mixed percussion; but it's still a moment when their lyrical gregariousness got the best of them. The chopped and screwed vocals on \"The Children\" are amongst the most unpleasant I've heard in some time, and its placement toward the end of Live is further proof that its only proper context as a song, rather than a threeminute sound effect, is as the gauntletthrowing opener of Odd Blood. Or, it's at the very least a nod toward the kiddie choir during the coda of closer \"2080\", still a signature song. Like \"Ambling Alp\", it's a most effective group hug because the acknowledgement of dark struggles makes overcoming them with their rousing chants feel earned instead of prefab. Yeasayer undoubtedly shoot for populism, which you don't need cohesive albums for, just great songs that aim directly for a communal effect. Odd Blood was by no means a cohesive album, but for the most part, Live is, and its best tracks should make any fan eager for more. "}