{"label":" Monkeytown","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16067/homepage_large.b2e46b8e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"Modeselektor","title":"Modeselektor Presents Modeselektion Vol. 01","text":" A big part of Modeselektor's appeal, and what's set them apart from their Berlin techno and international bass music peers over the years, has been their sense of humor and play. Their records have come stamped with a frazzled cartoon monkey logo or bearing a fugly Photoshop of the duo as Madonna and child. Videos for tracks like \"Black Block\" and \"Art & Cash\" run on a kind of frantic goofiness (plus: more monkeys). They collaborate with jokey rap crews TTC and Puppetmastaz (actual rapping puppets), and they spike their DJ mixes with Busta Rhymes' ebullience and Henry Rollins' ranting (\"I don't know which came first, shitty rave music or the drugs\"). That playfulness extends beyond the gags, into their eclectic, enthusiastic taste as selectors and producers, but it's tempered by a seriousminded approach to sound design and even the occasional moment of emotional weight. It's been an animated balancing act on their two fulllength studio albums and DJ mixes, but it's one they don't quite maintain on Modeselektion Vol 01. The compilation, curated for Modeselektor's own Monkeytown Records, is meant to be a calling card for the duo's recently expanding role as event organizers, and it comes across as coolly businesslike despite the rainbow monkey face. The duo told Resident Advisor that \"the main concern in all of this was the idea of defying genres and the usual beef between different camps, i.e., to create without borders and be completely freestyle.\" But Modeselektion is probably the most narrowly focused thing they've released this side of the melancholic Apparat collaboration Moderat, sticking to the territory between German techno and UK bass with little in the way of diversion. But at 18 tracks and nearly 80 minutes, it's also a decent survey of those scenes, presenting unreleased tracks from important and rising artists, and displaying Modeselektor's consistently keen ear for quality, lowendfriendly sounds. 2562's \"The Wind Up\" is pleasantly offkilter, its heavily filtered chords and echoing woodblock floating over a beat that lunges and lurches around its halfstep pivot. Cosmin TRG's \"Space Station Love Affair\" is an appropriately weightless interlocking of clean, clacking beats, a slippery filter sweep, and pingponging sonar blips. Ikonika and Optimum's \"Hum\" hides a sneaking, hollowedout bassline amid percussive melodies and string synths. Ramadanman's \"Pitter\" puts gently sqealing synth glissandos over stuttering hihats and loping handdrums. And it's not like there aren't glimmers of goofiness here in the odd wonky melody or gassy bassline. Longtime Modeselektor favorite Siriusmo starts things off with a line of tipsy synth on the grininducing \"Das Geheimnis\", and continues with the wobbly bass and flutelike lead of SBTRKT's \"The Unspoken\". Michigan/Berlin collaborators Tadd Mulinix and Daniel Mateo turn in \"The Good Star\", whose dubby bassline walks like a jolly, fat drunk, bobbing and swaying just slightly too slowly. Robag Wruhme's \"Der Bierholer\" has some Aphexy fun, slicing, shushing, and slurring a vocal cutup about the overproliferation of microphones. Modeselektor's own \"VW Jetta\" bounces between thick kick drum and rubberbanded bass synth with a kind of madcap intensity. Rephlex Records veteran Cylob's \"Pepper Spray (Capsicum Edit)\" closes the album with a characteristic dose of gleefully weird, acidsquirted electropop, its vocals pitched up and down all over the place girlish one minute, growling the next. Some of the shorter or less varied tracks here wind up feeling more like Modeselektor DJ tools than standalone songs, and in fact a mixed version of Modeselektion could've made for at least a welcome bonus disc. They could have even leavened the mood with a Tipper Gore drop or the Chris Rock bit from \"Blame Game\" or whatever. "}