{"label":" Kitsuné","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16082/homepage_large.ba790fbc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Kitsuné Maison 10: The Fireworks Issue","text":" It seems like Kitsuné Maison 10 should demarcate an anniversary or milestone for the fashionconscious French imprint, but it doesn't. The label has been releasing these things willynilly since about 2006, and if you're still listening at this point, you probably work in an affiliated retail store or are related to one of the artists featured. Instead Kitsuné Maison 10 is just another Kitsuné Music compilation a long one that happens to sport a flossier serial number than most. It's hard to forget that these Kitsuné comps are all but destined to fail: They are longform encapsulations of a style (dancepop, approximately, but electrohouse/blog house if you're nasty) that's usually best heard in a singles format and whose tastemaking impulses are unhidden. In other words, Kitsuné would gladly subject you to 250 Yelle tracks if it meant finding one more Crystal Castles (it's basically their business model, actually). Recent Kitsuné compilations seemed to be cheating in this respect, grabbing tracks from Washed Out and the Drums well after they'd been hyped elsewhere. Kitsuné Maison 10 does away with the obvious heatseeking and returns to a collection of relative unknowns augmented with Kitsuné standbys. Standard fare from Yelle, Two Door Cinema Club, Digitalism, and Black Strobe ensures the Kitsuné DNA remains intact. A collaboration between Hot Chip's Alexis Taylor and Kompakt mainstay Justus Köhncke provides some of the only recognizeable names to American indie rock audiences. The collection boasts little in the way of proper house or disco, but mutated strains recalling former Kitsuné mainstays Bloc Party (Clock Opera's \"Once and For All\"), Cut Copy (Strange Talk's \"Climbing Walls\"), and Phoenix (Is Tropical's \"South Pacific\") are in abundance. BeatauCue's \"Disque Oh!\" adds some bombast to Gold Panda, and the Aikiu's deliriously dramatic \"The Red Kiss\" is a tart delight. Everything here sounds \"now\" enough to feature in an iTunes commercial or a Sofia Coppola film soundtrack; anyone with kneejerk reactions to such simple pleasures likely knows to stay well enough away from Kitsuné at this point. If there's anything surprising about Kitsuné Maison 10, it's how eminently even the collection is. There's plenty of terrain between Teeth's glossy electrohop and the Orange Juiceisms of the Heartbreaks, and Kitsuné deserves credit for cultivating an extramusical aesthetic where beatdriven pop sits unperturbed next to shouty punk and gothy melodrama, so long as it's all carried out with a certain youthful sparkle. This aesthetic, unfortunately, doesn't add replay value to the toolong Kitsuné Maison 10, and more importantly it doesn't turn Strange Talk into Cut Copy. "}