{"label":" Editions Mego","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16084/homepage_large.54e7cc1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Bill Orcutt","title":"A New Way to Pay Old Debts","text":" It's always impressive when artists make radical shifts without losing any of the intangible qualities that make their approach recognizable. What's more remarkable about Bill Orcutt's stylistic transformation is that it comes after a decade of dormancy. His inimitable electric guitar sound a brittle howl akin to knives breaking glass was silenced by the late1990s demise of his notorious noise trio, Harry Pussy. But in 2009, after starting a family and a career, he picked up an old acoustic he's owned since college and channeled his muse into raw improvisations equally indebted to blues legends like Lightnin' Hopkins and abstract experimenters like Derek Bailey. Those might not be the first names that come to mind when you hear the word \"noise.\" But on two selfreleased 2009 records a twosong 7\" and a sixsong LP, both packaged here by Editions Mego with four unreleased tracks Orcutt uses such inspirations to create acoustic cacophony that retains all the trademark rattles and blasts of his electric playing. That's partially due to his instrument, a vintage acoustic so fragile that its four strings have to be wound loose or the neck will break. This gives the guitar a brittle, steely quality that Orcutt mines for all kinds of racket. But there's also noise inherent in his methods his way of attacking and diving into his ideas which has been there since he first started playing. As he told me in a recent \"Out Door\" interview, \"Once I actually have a guitar in my hands, I think I disappear into the same black hole that I was disappearing into when I was 15.\" On A New Way to Pay Old Debts, he rips out sharp plucks, strums in blurry bursts, and strangles his strings as if they were a threat. His playing is so urgent and exhaustive, you get the sense that he could coax blare from a feather. Not that everything here is noise. Orcutt mixes in minimalist repetitions and quieter passages, owing as much to pianists Glenn Gould and Cecil Taylor as to his guitar forefathers. He also adds atmospheric textures (you can hear a phone ring on opener \"Lip Rich\") and wordless singing, similar to Loren Connors' hums and moans on his early acoustic records. When Orcutt barks in time to his buzzing chops on \"My Reckless Parts\" or melds his shriek into \"High Waisted\", he sounds roughly like Connors sped up and set on fire. Which means this album is a challenging listen, even when it's not noisy. If you're not inclined toward acoustic improvisation or unstructured abstraction, Orcutt won't change your mind. But anyone can admire the raw soul of his playing and the way he shoots out ideas in realtime, reacting so quickly it's as if he's creating a new language as he speaks it. Either way, it's impossible to listen to A New Way to Pay Old Debts without being affected by it. "}