{"label":" Merok","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16074/homepage_large.7cb81975.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Gatekeeper","title":"Giza EP","text":" Last year, around the time Salem were causing such an online ruckus by marrying exploitation movie aesthetics to plodding beats, Pitchfork contributor Philip Sherburne wrote a piece on his blog that attempted to link the vogue for \"witch house\" to a wider trend toward dark, dank electronic music. He cast a wide net, from the krautrockish Emeralds to the haunted sound of postBurial dubstep. But he also noted that, whatever the subgenre, the vibe of \"much of it [is] specifically rooted in the apocalyptic aesthetics of the mid80s,\" a time when Cold War horror seemed to leak into even the danceyourcaresaway world of club music. Perhaps no new act exemplifies this aesthetic as much as sometime Salem associates Gatekeeper. From its cover art (an Atari cartridge meets the Portable Grindhouse aesthetic?) to its sound, Giza is a slab of carefully reconstituted 80s synths. Gatekeeper combine elements of midperiod Cabaret Voltaire (the eerie, unintelligible sampled moans and growls), the most sinister stalkingyoudownadarkalley strains of Detroit techno (think Suburban Knight more than Derrick May), and the onthecheap choral grandeur of every keyboardowning \"composer\" ever tasked to rip off Vangelis' score for Blade Runner. Obviously Gatekeeper's members are neckdeep in nostalgia for this era. Not for nothing is Giza's accompanying video collection being released on VHS. That kind of overthetop commitment to retro is rare indeed. But still, do we really need another spotthereference exercise from a couple of guys who never quite got over the 80s? We do when it's executed with this kind of audacity and intensity. Sure, Giza's period detail is exquisitely rendered, with a bright and crisp sound in direct opposition to the digital murk of the witch house crew. But though Gatekeeper clearly know their history, this is miles from the stuffy, deadening world of vintage keyboard connoisseurship. The vibe of Giza is pure suburban hoodrat thrills, overamped electronic music made for teenage metalheads playing coinop games in grotty strip mall arcades. And despite Gatekeeper's audible love for Zgrade horror flicks, this isn't really bleak stuff. Gatekeeper realize that there's also lot of kitschy joy to be had with such superficially spooky materials, and at its best Giza offers the same kind of brute adrenaline rush this stuff gave goodnatured darkness junkies the first time around. "}