{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16086/homepage_large.451655f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Phil Manley","title":"Life Coach","text":" Anyone looking for common threads that bind together the work of Phil Manley, whether it be in his 20year stint in Trans Am, occasional appearances with Oneida, or his engineering duties with stargazers like Arp, Moon Duo, and Wooden Shjips, would most likely settle on a mixture of everrepeating krautrock grooves and the eternal space mapped out by electronic pioneers bracketed under the kosmische musik banner. So it's appropriate that his debut solo record serves as a sort of tribute to Conny Plank, the legendary German producer who had a hand in refining both the combustible grooves of Neu! and Can and more freefloating approach of Cluster and early Kraftwerk. Those influences are keenly felt within the first 30 seconds of Life Coach's opening track, \"FT2 Theme\", which knots a spidery Michael Rotherinspired guitar line to a plodding electro groove and vast sheets of vintage synth sounds. It's similar to the kind of retrofuturist feel that Trans Am have mastered over their expansive career. The difference is that the joints are a little more exposed here, with Manley delving into outright homage instead of using his influences as a touchstone from which he can spin off onto his own unique path. As such, aficionados of Life Coach's most obvious inspirations will likely get a kick out of playing a game of spot the influence, whether it's drawn from the cyclical bliss of Manuel Göttsching's E2E4 (on \"Night Visions\"), or the nuanced ambient passages that unfurl on Harmonia's 1976 opus Tracks & Traces (on \"Forest Opening Theme\"). So, there isn't a great degree of originality at work here, and Manley is certainly backwardlooking in his approach. But it's a testament to his abilities that he is able to eke out compelling riffs and affecting spells of creativity from music that is perilously close to being over saturated as source material. The listless acoustic riff that coils throughout \"Lawrence, KS\" is one such moment, where Manley shifts his attention forward a few decades and hits on the kind of unshakable ennui David Pajo bled into Papa M's Live From a Shark Cage. Similarly, \"Work It Out\" is built around a towering expanse of guitar noise that veers close to Neil Young's Arc experiments, where form and function acquiesce to a kind of primitive, guttural euphoria. The only vocal turn here is on \"Gay Bathers\", a brief freakfolkinspired cut that works as a prelude to the ceaseless loops of \"Night Visions\", which in turn gives way to a closing title track that neatly bookends the album by returning to a similar well of inspiration (a bubbling synth spine layered with treated guitars) as its opening song. Life Coach is likely to be a small footnote in Manley's career, albeit one that allowed him to exorcise a few krautrock demons. It's to his credit that he never seems too in awe of his most obvious antecedents, instead simply choosing to flex his own capabilities within the tight constraints that musicians like Rother, HansJoachim Roedelius, and Dieter Moebius have operated within for decades. Still, it's a shame Manley didn't choose to filter more of his own ideas into the myriad eulogies on offer here. "}