{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16087/homepage_large.e86b0f5c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Klaxons","title":"Landmarks of Lunacy EP","text":" The tail end of 2010 was a happy time for frugal music fans, with heavyhitters Gorillaz, Deerhunter, and M.I.A. all offering new material online for the low, low price of nothing. London trio Klaxons found themselves in the holiday spirit as well, capping off a year that finally saw their longawaited second album, Surfing the Void, by posting an unreleased EP for free on their website. Recorded in 2008, Landmarks of Lunacy chronicles \"three nocturnal weeks spent at Black Box studio\" following the release of their Mercury Prizewinning debut, Myths of the Near Future. Helmed by Myths producer James Ford, Landmarks of Lunacy sheds light on the daunting process of trying to follow a hot debut album. Grander in scope and more anthemic than their debut, Surfing the Void was a solid, engaging next step for the band. Landmarks of Lunacy acts as the connecting piece in the attempt to grow and remain relevant. The only problem is that the music itself is watery and wholly unmemorable. As the band struggled to find a new, more mature sound, they clumsily opted for safe routes at nearly every turn. Klaxons spend most of the EP spinning their wheels, lazily plodding through the motions and failing to conjure any of the colorful imagery that marked their debut. Here was a band that once thrived off a unique, kinetic energy, so to find them aimlessly forcing psych textures and indulging in unfocused Britpop wanderings (presented lethargically and totally unmixed) is a real disappointment. Despite their ambrosial quality, \"The Pale Blue Dot\" and \"Silver Forest\" are simply halfformed, failing to achieve the farout, cosmic feel they were going for. The best part about Landmarks of Lunacy is knowing that things would eventually get better for Klaxons, and that a trepidatious toedip into the unknown is simply part of the recordmaking process. So it's ultimately frivolous to beat up on these five songs too much, especially considering the guys were nice enough to just hand these tracks over. In fact, two of them might even be granted an extended stay on your hard drive: \"Wildeflowers\" feels like a smoky, sinister answer to \"Strawberry Fields Forever\", and \"Marble Fields\", which could have been a minor Surfing the Void cut, sways dangerously, both frazzled and silky all at once. Landmarks of Lunacy should be regarded as a souvenir for Klaxons obsessives only. For the rest of us, well, at least the price is right. "}