{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16091/homepage_large.338567e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Atlas Sound","title":"Bedroom Databank, Vols. 1-4","text":" Back before we could follow an artist's every move on Twitter, Bradford Cox was lifestreaming on his band's blog, generously offering demos, mixtapes, rants, and a look inside his creative process. That mostly came to an end after the Microcastle leak turned ugly, when the previously fun backandforth between Cox and fans became, for him, a burden or cause of personal anxiety. Can't blame the guy: If you've ever been caught up in Internet drama, you know how shitty it feels. But Cox is still an incredibly prolific musician, and every now and again he logs onto the old site and dumps a whole heap of unreleased tracks for fans to enjoy. This is one of the great things about Internetera listening: Instead of waiting around for months for your favorite band to drop another label album, one morning you wake up and you've got two and a half hours' worth of brandnew material to sort through. It can also be overwhelming, of course, because when the newmusic faucet never shuts off, you're constantly playing catchup. This volume of songs from Cox's Atlas Sound guise pretty much typifies that feeling of music overload some of it's great, some of it isn't, and you have to show a good amount of patience to sift through it all in order to find the gems. Recorded over 2010 at Cox's home and in his band's Notown studio in Atlanta, Bedroom Databank is four albums' worth of tossedoff ditties and more fully fleshedout demos. Sonically, the collection runs from straightforward folkpop to electronic instrumentals and songs that fall somewhere in between. The folk element is one of the first things that stands out: Generally, we think of Cox as a boundary pusher (and he is), but the more music we hear from him, the more he also comes across like a traditional singersongwriter who really loves Bob Dylan and Neil Young. About half of this set consists of simple, waltztime ballads recorded with a harmonica and acoustic guitar. The cool thing about these countrytinged numbers is that they put Cox's lyrical content right out in the open. He's obscured words in noise and reverb plenty in the past, but he's a better songwriter than he often gets credit for, and here we get a clearer look at that part of his work. Favoring cryptic turns of phrase over straightforward storytelling, he sings about mundane stuff like getting older and more jaded in a way that makes it feel emotionally rich and sometimes very sad. The track \"New Romantic\" is an example: \"Please don't forget your hometown/ You used to see your friends/ You used to have good friends.\" Or \"How to Pass the Time\", which has a similar lossofinnocence theme: \"Your laughter used to ring out so loud/ Why can't you remember that now?\" The rest of the music on Bedroom Databank focuses on Cox's production skill, which is as sharp as ever when he wants it to be. There are Budd/Eno ambient instrumentals and some of the glitchier hazepop from the previous Atlas Sound LPs. I'm always impressed at how he injects emotion into these things a song like \"Heatwave\" is just an airy wisp at first glance, but with atonal touches and loopedover guitars he makes it feel like more, something like the last seconds of a flickering daydream. As for the mixedgenre stuff, he does it better than most any bedroom producer futzing around with postPanda Bear textures. Something like \"Wild Love\", which was probably recorded in about 15 minutes, makes all the hypnagogic pop in the world sound pretty uninspired by comparison. But I'm mostly talking highlights here, and there are plenty of songs that are less worthy of your time. It's not one disc or the other, since there's good material scattered throughout, but generally I'd say Volumes 2 and 3 are the least essential. This is where Cox is the least focused, laying down woozy song sketches and flimsy instrumentals that seem designed more for his pleasure than his fans'. Tracks like \"Pilot Light\" and \"Crossriver\" you can hear once and comfortably not revisit. But that's the nature of this collection: It's very much a grab bag. The reason it's ultimately worth doing the digging, though, is Cox one of indie's most fascinating characters and a guy that just has music pouring out of him. "}