{"label":" Kanine","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16099/homepage_large.01d7119a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Braids","title":"Native Speaker","text":" There are dreams, there are nightmares, and then there are those night visions that don't quite qualify as either, the unnerving images and dialogues that rattle about your head in your waking life for the rest of the day and reveal strange, forgotten details every time you pick at them. That's the kind of stuff we need to be talking about if we're going to call Braids \"dreampop\" as so many others have. The quartet's bracing debut Native Speaker is almost Inceptionlike in its warping of reality, equally tactile and dissolute, cerebral and surreal and ultimately haunting for its refusal to answer questions the same way twice. The Montreal group is constructed like your typical indie rock outfit keyboards, guitar, bass, drums, all parties contributing vocals but each element is employed in a way that embodies the best ideals of postrock, where each member coaxes sound like they're trying to learn something new about their instruments at each turn. The same exploratory nature applies to structure Native Speaker's seven roomy compositions (ranging from four to over eight minutes) rely heavily on loops and drones, pinwheels of guitar, and clusters of bell tones. There's constant motion, each layer pushing and prodding until they prop each other into something like stasis, its minimalist bent never drawing too much attention to how it's working really hard. The loop that drives \"Lemonade\" reads like an EKG, dipping and rising steadfastly as the rhythm section builds a limber, athletic pace and introduces Raphaelle StandellPreston's intriguing and idiosyncratic vocals. She's not without precedent: tonally there's some Régine Chassage in her higher register, and her knack for knocking the listener off course with wellplaced vulgarity recalls primeera Jenny Lewis. But the loopy, playful interaction of her and the strange, gripping placidity of Native Speaker feels like something all its own. She's demure as \"Lemonade\" begins but gets more and more unhinged as Braids hurtle forward. Despite the bizarre imagery she sets forth, the song is ultimately an impressionistic commentary on suburban romantic prospects \"what I've found is that we're all just sleeping around.\" As Native Speaker truly starts to take shape toward its midsection, you can hear them disassembling \"Lemonade\" only to rebuild each aspect of it into longer forms. It's no discredit to the band that it eases into the record's biggest sounding moments, while amidst the catharsis the vocals do the heavy lifting. \"Glass Deers\" plays it as straight as it gets on Native Speaker: the closest they come to typical strumming and clean guitar lines, while StandellPreston recalls fellow deconstructionist Sue Tompkins (Life Without Buildings), repeating \"I'm fucked up\" for as much of a percussive effect as an emotional one. Coasting on volume swells and whirring sound effects, the title track finds a point where Braids capture a woozy warmth not far removed from a more tactile take on Animal Collective circa Feels. But within what could scan like postcoital calm, the lyrics drop their often coy logic puzzles for about as straightforward of a cry for sexual need and desire as you'll hear in indie rock. Immediately thereafter, \"Lammicken\" deeply upsets the mood and throws Native Speaker into a stark relief. \"I can't stop it,\" StandellPreston repeats as she navigates a hall of funhouse mirrors with only that line to comfort her, her vocals warping and rising. Native Speaker tails off slightly thereafter almost out of necessity, yet it reaches a fitting conclusion with the distant drones of instrumental \"Little Hand\". Native Speaker is by nature elliptical, never seeking out a final word even as it converses with itself, almost as if it's meant to be played as a loop, something that can begin as soon as it ends. "}