{"label":" Javotti / 3D","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16103/homepage_large.0090ff14.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Talib Kweli","title":"Gutter Rainbows","text":" Here's a phrase I haven't heard too often: \"What the fuck was Kweli thinking?\" I know that as far as consciousskewing MCs go, Talib Kweli's had his share of detractors mostly people who consider him too reliant on popculture metaphors or just plain don't like his voice but he's never managed to stumble his way into alienating the audience he already has. And while he hasn't always been quite as breathlessly venerated as peers like Common or Mos Def, he's also never dropped a Universal Mind Control or a True Magic, a fanbasedisillusioning pratfall that lacks everything the faithful like about him. (At least, not too prominently his one big detour, the electrodamaged pastelstriperap side project Idle Warship, got one of those quietly promoted freedownload releases in 2009, the equivalent of a bigbudget action movie released in midJanuary.) If that means Talib Kweli has spent his solo career playing it safe, it also means he's as close as there is to a sure bet in indie rap: He's even less likely to disappoint fans than he is to shake up their preconceptions. His latest release, Gutter Rainbows, is one of those artistically selfsufficient, postInternet records that's been created, assembled, and channeled through means completely independent of the mainstream record industry, and yet it doesn't demonstrate a drastic change in Kweli's style at all. That probably says more about the relative freedom Kweli's had throughout his career than anything; when a solitary (and actually pretty good) will.i.am beat on Eardrum is the closest he's ever come to quoteunquote selling out, creative control has never really seemed like an issue. And while there's an album in the works that Kweli has claimed will be a major departure from his usual lyrical persona the tellingly titled Prisoner of Consciousness Gutter Rainbows doesn't sound like a jaded effort from an artist who's dissatisfied with his normal routine. In short, it's familiar without feeling rote. Kweli still takes criminal entrepreneurs and gunclap talk to task with flippant punchline dismissals on the whereI'mfrom title track, still holds fast to his roots with a humble gratitude on \"Friends & Family\", and still consistently makes being scholarly sound like a good way to throw your weight around. His learned, niceguy approach can switch over into goodnatured egotripping when he wants to, but it doesn't eclipse the sentimentality at his core. Sure, Kweli brags about racking up frequentflyer miles in Virgin Atlantic first class (\"Mr. International\"), but it's only so he can go overseas to connect with fans across the world. And even when he bigups himself for his cocksmanship (\"Ain't Waiting\"), he can't help but put it in fairytale romantic terms that invoke Peter Pan and The Princess Bride. Yeah, I know at least it's not in hashtag form. And besides, everyone who hasn't been put off by Kweli's brushes with cuetherimshot corniness by now should recognize that he's had one of the more impressive lyricalrapper flows going. If his metaphor/simile lyrics can be a mixed bag, the way he unfolds them against the backing tracks throwing his bars offkilter, switching from casually conversational to elaborately virtuosic, and tweaking his emphases midline is worth hearing just for the way he plays both with and against the rhythm, a soloist where other voices are content to just riff. The beats on Gutter Rainbows are tightenough neosoul by committee 13 producers handle 14 tracks  and most of it sounds like faintly modernized versions of Rawkuscirca2002 boombap, with the occasional outlier in the form of a post\"Hello Brooklyn\" oldschool banger (Khrysis' \"I'm on One\") or atmospheric synthesizer dirge (Blaq Toven's \"How You Love Me\"). But isolating the beats from the rapper seems futile; this is Kweli's most comfortable turf, and he clicks with it as an MC who works like an ensemble cast member. When it hits on all cylinders the Ski Beatzproduced gospelsoul piano avalanche of \"Cold Rain\" being the best of several highlights it's hard to blame him for sticking to what he knows. "}