{"label":" Modern Love","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16108/homepage_large.ffa90937.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Demdike Stare","title":"Tryptych","text":" Demdike Stare is a collaboration between a techno DJ/producer and a dedicated cratedigger for Finders Keepers, one of those boutiquey Euro labels that issues albums of Czech culthorror soundtracks and Persian funk under gonzo banners like \"20 vintage slices of Cymraeg Soft Psych and Welsh Kosmic Pop.\" The particular digger in question, Sean Canty, was once referred to by Fact magazine as one of Manchester's \"bestknown record collectors,\" which is illustrative of the company we're in: People who not only rate records, but rate their collectors. Canty's partner, Miles Whittaker, has been been an associate of Manchester's Modern Love records for nearly 10 years, primarily sticking around the kind of eerie, minimal techno that production groups like Basic Channel developed in the 1990s. Basically, Canty and Whittaker are lifers in communities where darkness and obscurity are tools, not handicaps. Demdike Stare is primarily a samplebased project, and \"dark\" is its organizing principle. Their logo is a skull, rose, and triangle; the cover of one of their EPs  is a visual riff on a Ouija board; and they're named after a 17thcentury witch a quasigothic, English variation on the scifi and horror imagery that has saturated the American underground over the past couple of years. The tracks on Tryptych are droning and nightmarish: lots of close murmuring and distant wind, lots of groaning earth and quietly whining steampowered machines, glassy techno keyboards and the buried wailing of undefined tribes. But like some drone (and most minimal techno) there's usually a build or a climax, and one of the most consistently satisfy  ing things about listening to Tryptych is that it takes music you might expect to be purely ambient and shapes it into something with a hump somewhere in the middle something with a narrative to it. Canty and Whittaker also manage to give their atmospheres rhythmic inertia and shape their beats in ways that make them sound like they're emerging from the track's atmosphere. I'm guessing this comes from Whittaker's time in the world of minimal techno, where the sound of static can pass for a backing track when edited and looped just right. Tryptych's collapsing of background and foreground is a holistic approach that makes their unexpected connections between the black ambience of Nurse With Wound, Middle Eastern chant, and minimal techno sound seamless and logical. The result is a style parttechno, partdrone, partnoise, sometimes Europeansounding, sometimes ambiguously \"ethnic,\" partheavenly, parthellish a kind of map to a musical otherworld. Demdike Stare's influences are well integrated and their commitment to them feels enduring, and after the deluge of halfkitschy, selfparodying indiegoth bands last year (GL▲SS †33†H was when I got off the bus), the commitment is refreshing. Tryptich is samplebased but doesn't just suss out some particular cultural moment and heap static on top of it, it reaches for a moment a confluence of sounds that never actually happened. In a blog post on what he called \"the new doom,\" Pitchfork contributor Philip Sherburne wrote that \"Demdike Stare are even more deserving of the 'witch house' tag [than Salem], given that they're named for an actual witch and have a deeper connection to actual house music.\" True, but I have no temptation to belittle Demdike Stare with the term. Tryptych collects the three EPs they released in 2010 and adds 40 minutes of bonus material to them, which ostensibly leaves you with an album that's about two and a half hours long. Two and a half hours is a long time. I'd be lying if I said I had the patience to give it my full attention from start to finish, but the caveat is that I think it's best enjoyed either in small listens or in a kind of absentminded immersion. It's the kind of thing you can keep turned on but tunedout for bad dreams, adventures into chemical hinterlands, night drives, and so on. Canty and Whittaker are impressively capable in that respect: they know exactly what will and won't belong in their creepy little moodworlds, and as a result, Tryptych rarely calls attention to itself. I tried playing it while I slept a few times, and woke up in the middle of the night with a real oh god, what's going on and how can I make it stop feeling, which in this context is an absolute plus. I in fact recommend that you listen to Tryptych at night thematically, it's where the album lives and where it thrives. "}