{"label":" Ectopic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16118/homepage_large.b4a1493f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Foetus","title":"Hide","text":" Jim Thirlwell was always on the outside, even when he was briefly \"in.\" A consummate refusenik, Thirlwell chafed against the one scene, industrial, that would have him as a member. Thirty years later, with Hide, Thirlwell's music is still impossible to place. Mixing astringent 21stcentury composition with the nauseous beauty of psychedelia at its least smileyfaced, Hide's got no real kin in the current indie ferment of strippeddown 1990s revivalism and sunny indie pop. But though Hide is less hideous and more sumptuous than the records which made Foetus' reputation, it remains a unpredictable, horrific, and beautiful mix. Early Foetus records, like 1984's blackly hilarious Hole, shared the industrial bands' love for queasy electronic textures and clattering metallic percussion. But while he was equal friends and fellow travellers Einsturzende Neubauten in intensity and harshness, the furor of punk meets the ugly whine and scrape of broken power tools, Thirlwell was also something of a oneman studio genius. His records were never crude assaults; they were masterfully multilayered artifacts put together with a perverted pop instinct for actual hooks. Hide is proof that Thirlwell's never lost that skill, that if anything his abilities as an arranger and producer have grown even more assured, but sonically it goes to some very different places. The sound of Hide is \"classical music\" broken and rearranged and then pounded or finessed into songs by a very odd man: The sturmunddrang of the composers who slaved on high Hollywood melodramas, snippets of opera warped by technology, outright gorgeous writing for piano and Stravinskyish strings, austere choral arrangements, and hideous brass fanfares. Again and again, Thirlwell flits between the tender and the terrifying, never letting you enjoy his ravishments for more than one track a time. Fragile melodies from a music box give way to stark musique concrète misery that sounds like a duet between a struck oil drum and the squeaking of a birthday balloon. Like all the best psychedelic artists, Thirlwell wants to disorient you, just with twisted concert hall music instead of endless sloppy guitar fuzz freakouts. Thirlwell certainly found common ground with the bleakness of industrial's worldview. But as a frontman, he had a sick, funny swagger that couldn't have been further from gaunt moaners of industrial's second and third tiers. There was plenty of glam seduction in his performances, but also the pisstaking charm of a standup comedian at a thirdrate casino, telling obscenely offcolor jokes about Hitler and Stalin. Much of that attitude and attack seems dampened on Hide, perhaps due to age or shifting priorities, but Thirlwell's restraint actually makes the music all the more uncomfortable. Again, it's a matter of unstable contrasts, Thirlwell's pained, pallid piano bar balladeering set against the Carl Stalling zaniness of Hide's more operatic vocal work. Listening to Hide, comparing it to the glut of forgettable improvised noise that currently claims to be inspired by oldschool industrial, it's hard not to admire the perversity of someone lavishing this much care on such an unrepentantly ugly record in 2010. But Hide confirms, like all of Foetus's output so far, that careful craft, far from resulting in a toopolished end product, can be just another route to delirium. "}