{"label":" This Is Music","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16120/homepage_large.d0a555d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Kisses","title":"The Heart of the Nightlife","text":" Kisses, as befits their name, are awfully cute. Their music, a plinky, strippeddown take on swoony synthpop, is a sort of lovers' rock; hat in hand, frontman Jesse Kivel musters the best chorus on The Heart of the Nightlife when he asks the object of his affection that'd be bandmate Zinzi Edmundson out for a nice steak dinner, just her and him. Kivel's got no shortage of sweet nothings to direct at Edmundson, and it's no stretch to imagine these two staring right through each other as they churn out their lightly funky new romantic mash notes. The songs on Heart of the Nightlife are simple, fairly easygoing; the sentiments expressed within, perhaps doubly so. But Kisses' lovedrunk geniality and aversion to melodrama keeps the merely cute Heart of the Nightlife from toppling over into the dreaded cutesiness. Kivel sounds a bit like Bernard Sumner after a good day at the spa, his dusky deadpan a good foil for some of his more gawkily straightfaced lyrics. He's got a good bit of Jens Lekman in there, too, and there's more than a passing similarity to the Swede's homespun Balearic sunshine of some of these arrangements. Kisses mostly lack the dark sense of humor running through both New Order and especially Lekman's music; when Kivel notes \"people can do the most amazing of things,\" he seems to believe it, so you do, too. These are love songs, kissed with a bit of nostalgia, riddled with a bit of doubt, and imbued with a little fantasy. They seem especially innocent, untroubled, still in the throes of first love, not sitting around waiting for the bottom to fall out. Even when, on opener \"Kisses\", Edmundson presumably happens upon \"a couple of girls kissing\" Kivel, you get the feeling they'll work it out. It's a lightness of tone that's matched by the airy, allnotesaccountedfor music, ranging from the dancefloor electroburble of \"Midnight Lover\" to the lateafternoon beachscene wash of \"On the Move\". They're got a real knack for keeping arrangements nimble and uncluttered; the dancier stuff feels expansive enough for the club yet dinky enough to've come from the bedroom, which is where I suspect Kivel and Edmundson would have you end up anyhow. Kivel's voice, whether he's breaking down phrases in \"On the Move\" or finding his way into the pocket of \"Kisses\", always seems to be sliding from note to note, which injects a little movement into even the more staid Heart of the Nightlife tracks. But Heart of the Nightlife mostly gets along on its good nature, its squiggly arrangements, and Kivel's almost quaint devotionals. True, Kisses might come off a bit like that tooperfect couple who drink all night and Farmer's Market all morning, but when they invite you along, saying no kinda makes you the asshole. "}