{"label":" Year Round","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16119/homepage_large.4279d119.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"DJ Premier Presents Year Round Records: Get Used to Us","text":" You could make a strong case for DJ Premier as rap's greatestever producer, but his particular strand of greatness is a slippery one to define. The Texasborn Premier perfected and codified a distinctly New York form of beatmaking, a crisp crackle that gained much of its power through tiny ruptures in its own infinite repetition. Premier's preferred tools were and are simple: a toothrattle snare, a perfectlytimed needleslice, an unidentifiable and cannily selected shard of someone else's record. But he blurred all these things together with the grace and precision of a true artist. And like a great film director, he knew just when to disappear, ceding the spotlight to the rappers' voices on his tracks. When Premier's longtime Gang Starr partner Guru died last year, many of the tributes took care to dance around Guru's greatest strength as a rapper: With his unflappable monotone, he made a great foil to Premier's alchemy. It was never the other way around. But here's the thing about living legends: They continue to live and, in most cases, to work. And in all but a handful of cases, their lateinlife work just serves to remind you how great they were when they were young and hungry and had the world's collective ear. That's absolutely the case with lateperiod Preemo, who's content to crank out barebones headknocks for craggy old N.Y. buddies and asskissy tributepayers. Superstar former collaborators like JayZ aren't exactly knocking down his door for beats anymore, and Preemo's own rudimentary stylistic tics have come to largely overwhelm the indefinable vision he once applied to them. That's what's going on in Get Used to Us, a compilation that exists to highlight the roster of Preemo's new imprint Year Round Records. It's an hour of new DJ Premier beats, a happy occasion even at this late date. But the lack of starpower on that roster just glares. As an instrumental album, this would probably be pretty boring, but it wouldn't be more boring than what we got. The best moments on Get Used to Us all come from old Premier buddies, grizzled and semianonymous hardheads like Blaq Poet and NYGz, whose voices have the sort of livedin rasp that these tracks demand. On \"Rappin Exercise\", NYGz member Panchi adapts a loping singsong, which makes him the only guy on the whole album to have any fun with his delivery. The worst come from unctuous starstruck openmicnight herb Nick Javas, whose syntax is truly tortured and who can't stop letting us know how honored he is to be on a Premier track. \"Opportunity Knoccs\", his first showcase, is a skit blown out to song length, and it actually derives its beat from Javas knocking on Premier's studio door to beg for an audition. (The second Javas track, \"Not a Game\", is made up entirely of clumsy sports metaphors, since every song obviously has to have some halfassed unifying concept.) Another relative newcomer is Young Maylay, best known as the voice of lead character CJ in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. He's an OK rapper, but once you hear the CJ in his voice, you can't unhear it; it causes an immediate sensememory flashback to all those times you accidentally drove into the fucking ocean again. The biggest names on the album are guys like KRSOne and MC Eiht, people who peaked 15 or 20 years ago and who have audibly deteriorated in the years since. Eiht is a particular disappointment. The Compton's Most Wanted veteran is supposedly working on a fulllength with Premier, an exciting idea until you hear the tracks that actually come out of it. Eiht thrives over slowcrawling cinematic beats, and you'd think Premier would put a dip in his usual boombap to accommodate the man. But he doesn't, and Eiht sounds lost. As recently as the last decade, Premier was capable of smooth leftturns like Devin the Dude's \"Doobie Ashtray\" or CeeLo's \"Evening News\". But Get Used to Us shows a brilliant mind trapped in his own wheelhouse, unwilling or unable to do anything but crank out lesser versions of the sound that built his legend. "}