{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16122/homepage_large.9cd55122.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Zs","title":"New Slaves Part II: Essence Implosion!","text":" Zs are better suited to remixing than a lot of avantrock bands because their compositions feel less like songs that need to be carefully picked apart and reassembled than raw chunks of sound ready to be manhandled in new ways. And I mean often literally raw chunks of sound. Unlike many of their once ultraskronky underground peers who've since smartened up their sound, Zs music has grown expansive while retaining its harderthantherest harshness. Zs' play no wave with most of the remaining rock dynamited away, avantclassical delivered with noisepunk's fuckyouall force, drone with a rusty eardrumslicing edge. Even the calm moments of Zs' albums are more eyeofthestorm than actual respites. So what's surprising about these remixes, jumping off from 2010's New Slaves, the band's most varied album yet, is how many of them reshape Zs' gales of blare into music that might appeal to those who look for more music in their music. Not to say it's all suddenly accessible. Weasel Walter's typically skinpeeling screech and blat sounds like he's once again unleashed the free jazz hounds of hell. Thee Majesty's take on \"Concert Black\" is like an old computer on its last legs, motor whining on and off as it hacks up pitiful little datafarts. Of course that's what you'd expect from a Zs' remix album, which doesn't make it any less enjoyable. If you're buying New Slaves Part II, you're probably wanting a little horribleness in your day. But more than one of these remixers take a more beautiful (like Ecstatic Sunshine's slowburning, almost Tortoiseish postrock guitar treatment) or beatcentric approach, sometimes straying into outright dance music. Ragged rhythms occasionally surface in Zs' music, like the claustrophobic scrapyard gamelan on the original \"Acres of Skin\" from New Slaves, but their music wouldn't fit even the broadest definition of \"house.\" The comforting, bodyfriendly pulse of pop is always under attack in Zs' world, always ready to shatter into arrhythmia. Yet here's Gabe Andruzzi fashioning the textural elements (always a Zs' strong suit) of \"Acres\" into a humid techno track more Tresor club hit than No New York. These total overhauls won't give newbies much of a sense of what Zs' are all about, but then are remix comps ever really for newbies? For those who've found joy in the pain of Zs' forbidding industrial sprawl, consider the more radical rewrites on New Slaves Part II a little peek into what a more traditionally pleasurecentric, alternateuniverse version of the band might be like. "}