{"label":" Yep Roc / Gronland","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16129/homepage_large.b7ba7f3d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Gang of Four","title":"Content","text":" When Jon King sarcastically asked, \"What to do for pleasure?\" on Gang of Four's epochal 1979 debut, Entertainment!, little did he realize that, 32 years later, he'd be answering his own question with: buy an Xbox 360 Kinect! But rather than undermine Gang of Four's ideological integrity, the recent use of the song quoted above (\"Natural's Not in It\") in a Microsoft gamingconsole commercial marked a logical extension of it. Despite their Maoist fascinations and angerisanenergy fervor, Gang of Four were always less interested in smashing storefronts than in exploring the anxiety of consumerism how a culture obsessed with status and acquisition reduces personal interaction to a transactional experience. And they did so not out of scorn for those who fuel the capitalist machine, but to acknowledge their own complicity in it. So the seeming contradiction of Gang of Four hocking video games in 2011 is actually the perfect preamble to the unease and selfdoubt expressed throughout Content, the very title of which alludes to the process by which creativity is depersonalized into commodity. Content is the group's first album of new material since the Entertainment!era band reunited in 2004 at the height of the postmillennial postpunk uprising, and used the occasion to rerecord their classic songs (on 2005 release Return the Gift) as a strategy of diverting royalties away from their former label EMI. But even with founding bassist Dave Allen and drummer Hugo Burnham stepping aside in recent years (replaced by Thomas McNeice and Mark Heaney, respectively), Gang of Four have ironically remained more active than many of the postpunk progeny (the Rapture, Radio 4, Bloc Party) who brought them back into vogue. If Gang of Four's 2005 reformation proved they could more than hold their own against the upstarts, then Content shows that their chief concerns the financial and psychological toll of keeping up with the Joneses resonate all the more loudly in an Internetaccelerated era where even those on the vanguard can feel behind the times, and where the lawless, anonymous nature of online exchange threatens to overwhelm our identities. It's thus fitting that the album's most exuberant moment the muscular Motown stomp \"Who Am I?\" is used to soundtrack a modernday anarchist's existential crisis: \"You can't steal when everything is free.\" After spending the past few years performing only songs from the band's original 197982 catalog, it's no surprise the new iteration of Gang of Four comes much closer to capturing that scabrous spirit mostly thanks to Andy Gill's stillpotent guitar spasms than any other Go4 effort without Allen or Burnham (1983's Hard, 1991's Mall, 1995's Shrinkwrapped). \"You Don't Have to Be Mad\" is essentially an aged update of \"Natural's Not in It\", complete with a similar desperatelyseekingleisure theme and a midsong breakdown where the rhythm section drops out and King and Gill engage in callandresponse warfare; \"I Party All the Time\" strips \"I Love a Man in Uniform\" of its 80s production gloss but keeps the female backup singers and sardonic humor. But the band that brought the funk to punk isn't in much of a dancing mood here. Where the early Gang of Four were defined by the oppositional tension between Gill's messy bentstring squiggles and the airtight, authoritative rhythm section, McNeice and Heaney play a mostly subservient role to Gill, matching the guitarist's Morsecode communiqués with clipped, offkilter accents. As such, there's a pervading feel of restraint to the album especially compared to the ferocity on display during those 20052006 tours. It's as if the defeatism running through King's lyric sheet has infected the performances, while the vocoderized spokenword set piece \"It Was Never Gonna Turn Out Too Good\" threatens to completely kill the momentum on album that only sporadically accrues it. King and Gill's spirited interplay and their obvious commitment to the Gang of Four cause keep Content from becoming the assemblyline product its title signifies, but for all its jagged edges, Content too rarely goes for the jugular. "}