{"label":" Labrador","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16130/homepage_large.8359334e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hari Ashurst","artist":"The Radio Dept.","title":"Passive Aggressive: Singles 2002-2010","text":" The Radio Dept. have spent their whole career as underdogs. They are a band whose big moment has always seemed just out of reach, something compounded by the fact that they went albumless for four years, finally ending the dry spell with last year's fine Clinging to a Scheme. That record's success brought with it a swell of momentum two singles, an EP, and even a free Internet single to coincide with the Swedish elections. It was a period of activity that won them a whole new set of listeners, and the decision to reconcile their scattered career into an accessible singles collection seems to be a wise move. The first disc of Passive Aggressive aims to be just that a collection of chronologically ordered singles and album material that shows how much ground the Radio Dept. have covered in eight years. \"Why Won't You Talk About It?\" opens the set with inthered guitars and a drumbeat that seems to be endlessly on the verge of kicking in. Johan Duncanson's barely there vocals have a similar lackadaisical quality and effortless cool to Julian Casablancas of Is This Itera Strokes. It has a magnetic breeziness about it, and for all of the early2000s signifiers and the blownout lofi production, it actually sounds five years ahead of its time. After the debut album, Lesser Matters, the band took on a more electronic bent, showcased here by \"The Worst Taste in Music\", a wellexecuted piece of synthpop reminiscent of the Pet Shop Boys and a standout moment on the collection. It's a shame that it is the sole representative from 2006's underrated Pet Grief. Much of that excellent record predates many of the recent Balearicleaning groups such as Korallreven, jj, and ceo, and this would have been an excellent opportunity to recast their significance as progenitors of that scene. At their best, as on last year's \"Heaven's on Fire\", the Radio Dept. internalize their varied influences dub, sample culture, synth pop and refocus them into a something that is unmistakably their own. Their identity is so hardwired into the core of the sound that it means they can nod to slightly alien textures such as the offbeat keys and dub leanings of \"Never Follow Suit\" without it sounding contrived. The Bsides disc is less strong, and there are some odd choices the inclusion of throwaway instrumental \"Tåget\" over the excellent Curetinged cut \"Deliverance\" from the This Past Week EP is disappointing. There are a few highlights to be found, but even those, such as buzzy instrumental \"Mad About the Boy\", sound like sketches. At best, some of these songs show promise, at worst, the mostly minorkey explorations come across as labored and even overwrought in the case of \"You and Me Then?\". While it's interesting to hear the band experiment and stretch its legs, these tracks mark a lot of the disc out as fanonly material. The weakness of the second disc makes for a slightly awkward contrast as the collection straddles an uncomfortable middle ground between appeasing longtime fans with rarities and acting as a primer to the band's sadly underrated previous material. But while there are a few selection missteps overall, the first disc in particular makes for a great initiation to the Radio Dept.'s previous work. And that there is the opportunity to reintroduce this long undervalued band is something to cheer in itself. "}