{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16138/homepage_large.29ea1a71.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2011","text":" Even though it's rooted in stasis, ambient music is always evolving. The German label Kompakt, an authority in the field, has driven both its evolution and the entrenchment of certain habits in the last decade. Label cofounder Wolfgang Voigt's ambient techno with Gas and other projects inspired a generation of frank imitators, even as his label's Pop Ambient compilations have pushed the limits of what ambient can entail. The term has picked up such varied connotations since Brian Eno coined it that it's become hard to define clearly. As usual, this year's Pop Ambient entry is an opportunity to take the temperature of what ambient means right now. Pop Ambient 2011 does suggest some common properties of modern ambient music. It assumes an air of immutability then, it changes. It features cyclical phrases, layered drones, sculptural textures, and flashes of traditional instrumentation. It avoids crisp delineation of sections, obscuring its internal dynamics to create a sense of traveling without moving. It has more in common with abstract visual art than other music it calls attention to its materials and features enigmatic subjects, like the scraped and peeled paint fields of Gerhard Richter, the colored light sculptures of Dan Flavin, and especially the monumental land art of Robert Smithson. Ambient insists that music is already latent in the raw terrain of sound. But Pop Ambient 2011 provides exceptions to every rule. \"Bernsteinzimmer\" by ANBB (that's Alva Noto and Blixa Bargeld) conveys an abstracted but palpable narrative via harmonic development and whispers that suddenly break into an authoritative voice. Against the notion that ambient music is sonic wallpaper, it shockingly commandeers the foreground. Triola's \"Dunkelraum\" also taps into the current vogue for submerged voices, but otherwise is merely an inert bed of tone and texture that represents ambient music at its most pro forma. Mikkel Metal and Bhutan Tiger Rescue take the \"pop\" part to heart. The former's \"The Other Side Of You\" places dreamy piano and drums amid a radiant synthetic sunburst. The latter's \"Beginner's Waltz\" is built around three lustrous tones that sway endlessly, splashed with sleigh bells and ethereal harmonies. Here, ambient music is something superficial; a haze gathering around repetitive tunes. That's not a ringing endorsement, but it's hard to get mad at pretty songs for conceptual reasons, and the Bhutan Tiger Rescue track has an especially memorable mood. At the other extreme, Crato conceives of ambient as something closer to noise or dronemetal: \"30.6.1881\" is a grayscale dirge midway between Infinite Body and Svarte Greiner, spooky but rote. But the most fertile influence on this year's comp is classical music. Voigt offers orchestral halos that wax and wane majestically, like an overdubbed Arvo Pärt symphony. Marsen Jules splices Glassian piano minimalism with a coiled, pouncing filter odyssey, and the Orb's Thomas Fehlmann creates a \"cover\" of Mahler's First. Best of all is label cofounder Jürgen Paape's huge, swooping \"Ein Schöner Land\". Like Voigt's offering, it has more false endings than a James Brown song, and a dramatic sense of tension and release. Its shapes are stalwart and highrelief. Nothing feels vague or accidental. These are bona fide compositions, relying on traditional building blocks like tonality, counterpoint, and motivic development instead of the haphazard interaction of shimmering tones a style that some of Kompakt's artists seem content with, even as the founders who enshrined it keep pushing forward. "}