{"label":" Soul Motive","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16140/homepage_large.e2c1baa6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Eleven Tigers","title":"Clouds Are Mountains","text":" Clouds Are Mountains, the debut album for Lithuanianborn producer Eleven Tigers (and the first fulllength release for UKbased Soul Motive records) is a meditation of sorts on modern electronic music, especially UK bass music. Presented as a \"mix\" rather than a series of tracks unlike most electronic artists, Eleven Tigers opts to begin his career with an LP instead of a single Clouds Are Mountains nestles intriguing slabs of techno into listless atmospheres. Eleven Tigers first made noise in the middle of last year with the single \"Stableface\", an insistent and prolonged beat drama on an album filled with vignettes, which excited dubstep fans and received several remixes. It's ironic that an album specifically constructed to be heard as a piece will be defined by its strongest single, one that is ineffectively buried near the end of the album. Clouds Are Mountains doesn't feel like a mix because Eleven Tigers too often mistakes drift for transition. The exciting moments feel like a group of islands amidst an electronic sea. Mixes tend to build toward an emotional or musical release; Clouds Are Mountains ebbs and flows and feels merely like a particularly cohesive album. In terms of both spirit and execution, Eleven Tigers recalls Burial, but only in part because each plays dubstep: Eleven Tigers relies chiefly on distorted, alien voices and pigeonfooted rhythms for its important moments. It's also unrepentantly moody, like a child prodded too many times about just what is the matter and who keeps answering, \"nothing.\" My favorite moments on Clouds Are Mountains almost invariably exist outside those contexts, like the drum'n'bassindebted middle section of \"Thesis\" and \"Frozen Wheel\". Or when the folk/bass/pop clash during \"Songs for You\" brings to mind the underloved British act Various Production. Moments of ambience and proper reggae are sadly less evocative. Clouds Are Mountains can't sit still. It sprints between styles and tempos in a way that feels indecisive, especially for a work that stresses its cohesion. Eleven Tigers puts his hands on a lot of styles here, but the only thing he seems to take ownership of is the album's dour demeanor. That kind of monotonous mood can benefit an album of outstanding focus or singular style, but Eleven Tigers too often feels like he's trying to outexecute his peers. "}