{"label":" RJ's Electrical Connections","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16147/homepage_large.fa7af075.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"RJD2","title":"The Glow Remixes EP","text":" There's a reason for this, a giveaway EP featuring remixes of a single song from RJD2's 2010 LP The Colossus, to exist; the reason just isn't very obvious, that's all. It's certainly not because \"The Glow\" was a standout on the record; there were no standouts on that justmakingthegrade effort. Doesn't help, either, that the song is disjointed and fails to find a pocketed groove that'll stick. If anything, RJ's lyrics are what's to focus on here, as they oddly embrace oldfashioned wealth signifiers like white tablecloths, tans, and gold wrists. There's also some talk about not having to vote or pay taxes, but the whole thing is \"political\" the way N.E.R.D.'s \"politicians they soundin' like strippers to me\" line in \"Lapdance\" is. \"The Glow\" is a song about feeling yourself, and the producer born Ramble John Krohn has had good reason to indulge in recent years. After watching folks' \"Next DJ Shadow\" predictions sadly come true with the release of 2007's utterly horrible, rockheavy third album The Third Hand, it looked like RJ's fortunes resided alongside Prefuse 73's in the used CD bin. Lucky for him, then, when his instrumental for \"A Beautiful Mine\", from 2006's collaborative Magnificent City LP with rapper Aceyalone, was used as the theme song to \"Mad Men\". Because of this, more people have heard RJD2's music on a regular basis than the number of people who bought Since We Last Spoke; it's also very likely that this slice of synergy has kept RJ wellfed. So the mood here, it seems, is celebratory, and the remixers tapped to do their stuff here are well aware. For the most part, they lean heavily on that pitchy, lostfromtheBigBeatera vocal hook, recontextualizing it to reflect on some of dance music's more ubiquitous preoccupations at the moment. Chicago's Fool's Goldaffiliated duo Flosstradamus apply discoedit touches, stretching the tune out by a few minutes with a patient beat that is easy enough to leave on, if slightly unremarkable. Italian composer and fanchosen remix contest winner Paolo Palazzo takes a more kitchensink approach, folding everything into an asthmatic slurp of a rhythm that fits with the sonic aspirations of California's Low End Theory beat scene. It's UK producer Candy Panther, however, who files the most intriguing take here, experimenting with low pitches and shades of dark melody in a way that calls out to the dronier work of his brethren in the Night Slugs crew specifically, the grimeflecked Jam City and tunnelhouse alchemist Egyptrixx. So, no one is doing bad work here but there's nothing essential either, which might prompt fans to look this particular gift horse in the mouth (unless they're really into the included carsanddolls video for \"The Glow\", which is not likely). Was this release really a gift to begin with, though? Celebratory angle aside, RJ has another decent reason to go about raising his profile right now: he's about to release an LP under a new moniker, The Insane Warrior, which is said to take cues from horror and scifi soundtracks. The Glow Remixes, then, becomes less of a generous offering and more of a profileraising promotional tool. "}