{"label":" Perlon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16152/homepage_large.18f90adc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Superlongevity 5","text":" The Berlinbased Perlon label is one of the titans of the last decade of electronic music, but if their name doesn't ring out like Kompakt or Warp (or Hyperdub), it's mostly because they don't want it to. The label has a strictlyforaficionados air about it, not least because their idea of how to present a big release constitutes \"releasing a CD version\" (the label's wares are often vinylonly and they mostly stay away from digital). As of this writing, the label's website is still a giant Flash animation alerting you that Perlon.com is \"Opening Imminently.\" Breath: bated. Perlon's Superlongevity series has served as a clearinghouse for the label in the past, often collecting bushels of their 12\"only singles. The middle volumes can stand tall next to Kompakt's Total 3 and Total 4 as essential documents of 2000s techno specifically minimal, the hypnotic, spare house offshoot that dominated DJ decks and established Germany as the center of the electronic music world. Perlon's relative obscurity is due partly as well to prolonged silences from some of its bigger artists: Ricardo Villalobos, Melchior Productions, and STL have all quieted down or moved their releases elsewhere. (Shackleton's Three EPs was the label's last release to gain any traction outside dance circles.) So Superlongevity 5 represents a pretty substantial release for the label, not just because it revives a dormant brand name, but because it offers new music from the artists above as well as from standbys like Baby Ford, Kalabrese, and Shackleton. Keeping to form, Superlongevity 5 is offered as a mix of new or unreleased material spread across two CDs (a limited sevenrecord vinyl box set was also made available). As a mix, it differs substantially from a stoneskipping DJ set: the tracks are presented in large chunks, usually between five and six minutes, which not only gives each track plenty of room to breathe and develop but also obviates the need to hear \"full\" versions for all but the compulsive. Always the slightly sillier cousin to the starker Kompakt, Perlon has only gotten wilier since their heyday. Superlongevity 5 is bursting with weird mantras (\"Just being tape!\" from Matt John's \"The Tapedeckers\"), tropical horns (Kalabrese's \"The 2010 Kitchen Session\"), and rubbery rhythms (everything, really). Dandy Jack's lounge disco \"Show You My Tent\" actually chuckles at itself throughout (or at me?). San Proper's \"Lady Cop\" is a funky noir that features samples of dialogue from \"The Wire\"'s beloved Kima Greggs. Coming for the headliners Villalobos, Shackleton, and Melchior arguably have the most cachet here is a mistake. Superlongevity 5 is a place where everyone wilds out; at times it feels like a group of goofball college buddies meeting up years later. Matthew Dear takes his Jabberjaw moniker out of mothballs; \"Pop Bottle\" features sampled baby nonsense and someone shouting \"I need help!\" Label cofounder Zip teams with Sammy Dee on their Pantytec project and offer the detuned, jazzy \"Zwölvis\". Nothing here settles too heavily. Zip mixes an imposing 28 tracks of carbonated oddities into two hours of vibrant techno. When it's through, it's hard not to compare Perlon's stubborn vinyl adherence and low visibility to the colorful, clever music of its artists. But this is the context in which Perlon has always thrived: mixed among friends and peers. It's techno music for techno fans, but it never makes the mistake of being too serious or exclusive. "}