{"label":" Dust-to-Digital","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16155/homepage_large.d72b112f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Baby How Can It Be? Songs of Love, Lust and Contempt From the 1920s and 1930s","text":" It seems odd to pair the 1920s and 30s together, as they could not be any more different, at least in the public consciousness. The 20s roared decadently, all Prohibition sneakiness, flapper fervor, and urbane jazz music. The 30s nursed the nation's wounds during the Great Depression, producing hobo itinerancy and angry labor songs. Baby How Can It Be?, compiled from the collection of John Heneghan (of Eden & John's East River String Band), largely ignores history and geography, deriving its personality and power from the broadness of its organizing concepts which are really just excuses for making an engaging, exciting mixtape. Heneghan and coproducer Steven Lance Ledbetter uncover the lasciviousness lurking beneath the decades' remembered propriety, which means today the sexual code words in these songs are more unexpected and therefore more shocking than, say, the racial epithets. And yet, musically Baby How Can It Be is so diverse and wideranging that these two decades come across as a period of intense innovation, perhaps the busiest time for popular music in America. To some extent, credit goes to Heneghan and Ledbetter, who see no difference between genres and geography. Instead, they treat rural and urban music, as well as black and white music, equally and let smalltown blues pickers rub elbows with bigcity jazz sophisticates. Baby How Can It Be plays as a travelogue: lingering in Louisiana to ogle some Creole chicks, assimilating on the reservation to win a chief's daughter, eyeballing the hula girls in Hawaii. Think JayZ's \"Girls Girls Girls\", except with banjos and hot horn sections. The set gives each of the emotions in the subtitle Love, Lust, and Contempt its own separate disc, which winkingly implies a narrative trajectory beginning with getting it on and arcing toward getting over it. The Love songs typically hint at some impending disaster read: marriage while the Lust songs display a strong devotion, albeit one based on sex rather than romance. And Contempt is an especially intriguing word here, covering a range of attitudes from Robert Hill's \"You Gonna Look Like a Monkey When You Get Old\" to the Callahan Brothers' highlonesome \"I Want to Ask the Stars\". Rather than being depressive, however, the compilation crackles with sly wit and lusty energy. The musicians on Baby How Can It Be are innovators of innuendo, and anyone who thinks the first half of the 20th century was a period of propriety and repression will be blushing beet red even before hearing Harry Roy & His BatClub Boys' 1931 romp \"Pussy\". There's an endless parade of double and sometimes single entendres throughout the collection, especially on the Lust disc: a memorable yoyo, some wienies and buns, a pan of shortnin' bread, and Frankie \"HalfPint\" Jaxon boasting on \"It's Heated\", \"I can keep your boiler hot 'til the superintendent comes!\" The lovin' sounds freer and funner than anything the 1960s had to offer. Baby How Can It Be proves just as spirited when the singers are down in the dumps. Laura Smith opens Disc Three with the gleefully depressive \"I'm Gonna Kill Myself\", in which she enumerates the many ways she plans to do it: \"I wanna die die die till I die.\" These songs brim with playful humor even in the face of remorse and despair. Even when offering a lascivious wink, they're never being simply lewd, thanks to the producers' careful sequencing and to the artists' happy revelation that pop music can convey all their desires and frustrations. Or, as the unnamed female singer on \"Banjo\" Ikey Robinson and His Bull Fiddle Band's \"My Four Reasons\" so eloquently puts it, \"Everybody get filthy!\" "}