{"label":" Turn Up","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16161/homepage_large.bbdc7bf2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Sonny Smith","title":"100 Records Volume II: I Miss the Jams","text":" \"When you're young... to say screw it all and chase your dreams is seen as courageous and brave,\" Sonny Smith reminds us in his songpoem \"Broke Artist at the Turn of the Century\". \"People salute you. As you grow older, they no longer think of you as heroic. They see you as something else: selfish, foolish, or lost.\" Yeah, he's singing in character Hank Champion, descendent of Texan miners  but surely that line in the sand between youthful ideologue to struggling somethingorother has occurred to Smith. Especially lately: The San Fran renaissance man artist, author, and bandleader recently completed work on his most elaborate project yet, a handbuilt jukebox jammed with 100 songs written by Sonny and recorded with help from a coterie of the Bay Area's garagepop movers and shakers. Each tune is assigned a fake band name, each record its own custom sleeve with several groups even earning their own elaborate backstories; the mind reels at the scope of the project, the mastery of mixed media such an undertaking would require, the drive it'd take not to just say screw it and move onto something else. Here's this relatively unsung singersongwriter crafting possibly the most complicated box set of all time, in an edition of one; brave, to be sure, but at least on paper, not too many degrees removed from foolish either. But Smith, as he did with his Sunsets' stillgreat Tomorrow Is Alright LP, makes it all seem too easy, and his affably eclectic jukeboxera songcraft and the formidable crew he's assembled for backup make I Miss the Jams the second, 10song set culled from the original 100 seem anything but foolhardy. With all the project's extramusical elements, Smith and company could've almost been forgiven for halfassing the songs themselves; standing in a room with that jukebox, punching buttons for Earth Girl Helen Brown or Loud Fast Fools, the occasional noise splatter or big dumb lark would seem almost inevitable. But the 10 tracks on I Miss the Jams would suggest that Smith put the tunes at least on par with all the trappings, offering up a genial set of retrominded raveups recorded in warm, punchy midfi. Smith's sly wit and remarkably natural way with songcraft are very much in evidence here as they were on the Sunsets' LP, but the songs here are simpler and, accordingly, more direct; the bawdy \"I Wanna Do It\", featuring a brassy vocal from the Sandwitches' Heidi Alexander doesn't mince words, while \"Teen Age Thugs\" its verses in Spanish, its chorus bored into your skull in English makes its point despite the potential language barrier. \"Broke Artist\" tells its tale of a skid row artist, his similarly hardluck benefactor, and a run in on the wrong side of the tracks; Smith's best lyrics have a shortstory quality about them anyway, and it's nice to see him finding yet another way to marry his many passions on wax. Perhaps understandably, the tunes do occasionally feel a tad like genre exercises \"Ain't No Turnin Back\" skiffles, \"Back in the Day (I Can't Stand It)\" is straight British invasion R&B but Smith's such an unflappably cool songwriter than even borrowed clothes fit him like a glove. Like Tomorrow Is Alright, I Miss the Jams is a remarkably blithe, laidback work, the subtle charms of Smith's gently funny, sneakily subversive songs occasionally taking a listen or two to sort themselves out. But there's a durability there that belies the fairly easy referencegrabbing and the slightly shruggedoff attitude on display; Smith's fairly unshowy, trendaverse style may never win him the fanbase of some of his peppier, more hookforward left coasters, but their clean lines and easy feel lends them a feeling of timelessness that seems like it ought to endure. For all the romantic notions of creative solitude in \"Broke Artist\", Smith couldn't have made his big box happen without a good showing from the smoldering San Francisco indie rock scene, who come out in droves here. Ty Segall takes it down a notch or four on the surfy \"One Way Doomsday Trip to Nowhere\", Smith and the Fresh & Onlys' Tim Cohen attempt to outdeadpan each other on the otherwise rollicking \"Time to Split\", and Kelley Stoltz fulfills his unspoken obligation to be on every San Fran record ever by appearing throughout. The spirit of community amongst this ragtag crew hasn't gone unremarked upon, but it's definitely in full force here; although it's certainly Smith's record at the core, it plays like a nice little overview of the San Francisco scene as it stands, their unusually fresh and forwardlooking take on shuffly modpop. Through it all, Smith and company remain calm, totally uncowed by the task at hand. With friends like those willing to help flesh out songs like these, Smith's wildeyed devotion to this absurdly laborious project makes all the sense in the world. "}