{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16162/homepage_large.3cb41cb2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"Ride","title":"Nowhere [20th Anniversary Edition]","text":" Along with the 20th anniversary reissue of Ride's debut LP, Nowhere, comes a thick booklet of old photos, liner notes, and a Jim DeRogatispenned look back on the Oxford shoegazers' nearperfect debut. Flip to page 20 and you'll find a gem: a grainy shot of the foursome sitting on a bed, shouldertoshoulder, each with their own reading material. Vocalist/guitarist Mark Gardener is at one end, nosedeep in a copy of the cornball selfhelp novella Jonathan Livingston Seagull. His bandmate, songwriting foil, and eventual nemesis Andy Bell is left of center, peeking out from behind an issue of Bunty, an old British comic written for teenage girls. Bassist Steve Queralt is engrossed in nowdefunct UK pop rag Number One, while drummer Loz Colbert seems rapt by the Christopher Isherwood novel perched at his thumbs. With the exception of Gardener's book, a likely reference to Nowhere opener \"Seagull\", it's all very English. But at the same time, there's magic more universal to unpack from this one image. The four of them look like brothers. They look like ordinary, wiseass kids you knew or know. They look like a band. If I asked you about My Bloody Valentine, the other most seminal shoegaze band, chances are you'd think immediately of Kevin Shields and the countless places you've heard his singular guitar vision unfurl. But while Ride are often mentioned in tandem with MBV, their footprint owes more to their songwork than their sonics, and more to the way all four members clashed and combined. They weren't visionaries or titans; they were young writers with a taste for high volumes. And they didn't situate their melodies amongst tides of effectspedalinduced mayhem, either; they did it the other way around. Howls were there to support hooks, and the psychedelic interplay between Gardener and Bell's two guitars was far more pivotal to their mission than drapes of allenveloping noise. But that said, Nowhere, their seismic debut fulllength, found them playing with elements of the shoegaze sound as much as they ever would. While it's one of the genre's enduring moments, it's Ride's for another reason: This family of songs is their most focused. The remastering on this edition makes that all the more clear. It starts with a sharpening. Nowhere was never an especially warm listen, and felt a little flat at times if it wasn't played dangerously loud. The new shine seems so necessary once you hear it. Each jangle and contour has been shored up and made more distinct, resulting in a richer listen. The first whinnies of \"Seagull\" sound even more serrated than before, and the elliptical guitar figure at its core is less muddy. Gardener and Bell's dual vocals on \"Polar Bear\" are now as streamlined as that song's livelier coda. And those are just two spots where you can hear again what a great allaround fit they were in the beginning. Not a note feels errant or alone, and Queralt and Colbert sound inseparable, capable of pummeling through squall and enhancing fragile passages with ease. Colbert comes on strong enough to dole out compound fractures, especially during \"Dreams Burn Down\" and \"Vapour Trail.\" The latter remains immense, standing tall as the most gripping fourandhalfminutes of their career. Twenty years later, it's exciting to realize there's a lot more to be relished in between all its chimes. Such is the case for much of the first disc. When Nowhere first arrived in late 1990, Ride had already released three outstanding EPs (Ride, Play, and Fall) that year alone. The original North American release added three bonus tracks from Fall, which are joined here by three additional tracks from the album sessions: the workmanlike trio of \"Unfamiliar\", \"Beneath\", and \"Sennen\". The new edition also includes \"Today\", a beautiful, acousticbased torch song that plumes for miles and miles. Count it up and that's 23 songs of fantastic quality, all culled from an opening stretch so fertile, the band would have a much easier time crafting early setlists than they ever would replicating that initial spark. Though the booklet is nice and the remastering essential, what makes this anniversary package most intriguing is its second disc: a live set from a Los Angeles show at the Roxy in Spring of 1991. Ride didn't come close to making a splash in the States like they did at home, but on this night, if audience noise is any indicator, their reception was electric. Through headphones, it's hard to believe anyone on stage spent a moment gazing at their shoes, as the legend goes. Rifling through just half of their catalog at the time, they sound like wild elephants throwing their weight around. It's a terrific, thunderous recording and you can quickly get a clear sense for why their live show garnered as much excitement as it did then. At the same time, the nature of what they were trying to accomplish as a band really comes through in full. The more abrasive tones of MBV and Sonic Youth were clearly an influence as they first started to write and record, but it's the fromthegut pop screech of Dinosaur Jr. that sounds like their closest kin here. Ride's music wasn't necessarily gamechanging but the songs are the kind that last. When they close with \"Drive Blind\", a cut from their selftitled debut EP, they abandon the song's course just two minutes in to catch a massive swell of guitar. It grows and grows and it grows some more, and then, sure enough, the volume dips, and they circle right back to where they started: a melody. They were really good at that. "}