{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16159/homepage_large.e061ad6c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Robag Wruhme","title":"Wuppdeckmischmampflow","text":" Though the label was initially and famously born around a signature sound, Kompakt has slowly diversified over the past 10 years, more thanks to a creative restlessness shared by its founders than a desire remain commercially viable in the trendfixated world of techno. Ten years ago it would have been unthinkable for a Kompakt mix to open with something as traditional as the minimal deep house of Guillaume & the Coutu Dumonts' \"Odyssee\", as Robag Wruhme does on Wuppdeckmischmampflow. Its strippeddown, jazztinged boogie just wasn't within Kompakt's purview, which favored atmosphere over funk. But if the choice doesn't feel like a total curveball in 2011, it's in part because Kompakt's sound has become so wideranging that its output seems more defined by mood than any specific production tricks or any subgenre's identifying marks. Nevertheless, the label's name will likely always evoke the lush and moody techhouse and fluffierthanfluffy ambient it made famous between 1998 and 2002. Those spacious, softedged sonics and that inimitable latenight vibe certainly persist on Robag Wruhme's new mix CD, which features plenty of muffled melodies lurking behind staticy textures, synths twinkling against dark bass, and intricately layered, gently flowing beats. But as catholic a selector as any DJ ever tasked by Kompakt to make a mix, Wruhme includes classics Villalobos' \"Dexter\", regardless of how \"dated\" they might feel to some, alongside uptotheminute dancefloor cuts and leftfield electronica moves from artists like Four Tet, choosing records that chase the same atmosphere rather than what a techno DJ \"should\" be playing in 2011. It's also often plain gorgeous, the kind of richly detailed homelistening techno that Kompakt's mixes have always promised, albeit taking a new form. While many Kompakt mixes have used smooth extended fades to bridge the gaps between disparatesounding tracks, here Wruhme makes use of virtuoso inthemoment sampling, hypnotic snippets of voice, or jittery percussion fills to blend his often wildly diverse selections into a unified whole. That patchwork feel, a lot of tiny elements being smoothly edited together, extends to the tracks themselves, many of which feature rhythm tracks far more antic and polypercussive than the sleekly gliding pulse Eurotechno Kompakt made famous. Some of the stuttering transitionslike chunky syncopation that leads into Moderat's \"Rusty Nails\" are downright garagey, not a genre ever associated with the label before. Others recall a thicker, more voluptuous and sensual take on oldschool microhouse. Idiosyncratic in their choices yet never less than artfully constructed, Kompakt's mixes have always felt more like firstrate mixtapes, of the sort made by one friend for another, rather than an advertisement for the season's latest club smashes. If Wuppdeckmischmampflow, with its nearly decadeold inclusions and tracks taken from outside techno's wellpatrolled borders, won't please those looking for dance's nextbigthings from their mixes, it's never less than evocative and involving, which are the only two guidelines that count when you take a DJ set out of the club. "}