{"label":" Hello Echo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16170/homepage_large.79841f02.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Hello Echo","title":"Hello","text":" For me, the most satisfying scene in the whole Lord of the Rings trilogy was the bit where the Ents finally mobilize and move to tear down the... what was that they were destroying? Some sort of orc factory? I don't remember, honestly, but as thinly veiled as the environmental allegory of the scene was, the justice inherent to a bunch of trees taking out the very industrial operation that had been depleting the forest was quite satisfying. The album art for Hello Echo's debut album, Hello, takes that image and makes it several times more literal, showing an Entlike tree, dukes up, squaring off against some sort of smokestack skyscraper monster, and the images continues onto the back of the digipack to reveal a nearby city about to be wiped out by a towering wave. The overt environmentalism of its cover art doesn't quite carry over into the album's music, but it is reflected somewhat in the album's tension between the pastoral and the urban. The songs are full of images of moving out where people don't dominate the landscape, to the desert or the seaside, and in the case of the desert, they even juxtapose the landscape with the technology that moves them through it, in this case a car's engine. The trio is lead by guitarist Sean Aylward, best known for a onealbum stint in Apollo Sunshine, whose drummer, Jeremy Black, produced Hello. He's joined by bassist Mike Sarno and drummer Mikey Silva, and together they make an interesting trio they have a pretty normal setup, but Aylward's guitar is an unusual halfway point between lead and rhythm playing, especially when he's playing electric. Aylward's style has its best showcase on \"Stone\". He layers acoustic and electric guitar into a cycling rhythm that imparts urgency to the song's unison singing, but when he breaks out for a little solo near the end of the song, it's very tied in to the structure of what he was already playing, an embellishment of the rhythm part. It's a good style that enlivens the band's songwriting, which is mostly quite strong but occasionally a little short on developed lyrics. Opener \"When Push Comes to Love\" is good to begin with, but his rattling, spiraling leads really blow it up into something huge. The best piece of pure songwriting is the quiet, countrytinged \"Disconnect Me\", which backs Aylward's nearly twangy lead vocal with spectral, wordless harmonies and just a few wellplaced electric guitar accents. That \"Disconnect Me\" succeeds so well without Aylward's guitar dominating it is a good sign for the band's future and potential to branch out. And I do hope they get the chance to branch out. Hello is a very solid debut by a band with plenty of talent it's not often I wind up spending so much of an indie rock review talking about a particular player's instrumental style, but Aylward really seems to have found his own voice on the guitar. "}