{"label":" Bureau B","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16181/homepage_large.1b2ad82f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Hans-Joachim Roedelius","title":"Selbstportrait","text":" Digital technology provides modern electronic producers with superhuman control over countless hyperreal sounds. In the analog 1970s, HansJoachim Roedelius made do with the merely real, coaxing miles of variation from his Farfisa's limited selection of timbres, which all tended to be shrill and watery. He recorded the material that would be released in a long series of Selbstportraits whenever he wasn't busy helping to define Krautrock and ambient music as a cofounder of seminal kosmische bands Cluster and Harmonia. His augustly hyphenated name makes him sound like a severe German classical composer, but he brought a playfully jazzy sensibility to these solitary miniatures, improvisations, and moods. Amid Brian Eno's stillness and Kraftwerk's speed and light, Roedelius found a middle way between the void and the Autobahn. His Selbstportraits are dreamy, introspective cruises, rising and falling as if over looping country lanes. Recorded over old tape at low speed, in mono, on a Revox reeltoreel, these albums sound really dated. That's why this happens to be an ideal moment to rerelease the first two, as their datedness they were originally issued on Sky Records in 1979 and 1980 feels quite contemporary, thanks to the modern resurgence of Roedelius' style of gently propulsive, floridly minimalist keyboard music. You hear it everywhere in recent years, from Oneohtrix Point Never and Arp to Ducktails and Nite Jewel, burbling in woolly analog atmospheres. It seems that when modern musicians aspire to something backtobasics with electronic music, it's Roedelius' durable easylistening/newage aesthetic they're after. Selbstportrait I and II are similar in style and quality, and casual fans may need only one in their lives. II has a couple of the best individual tracks, and contains added material. I is stronger overall, or at least feels that way because it came first, introducing the palette and ideas Roedelius continues to explore on II. The formula is deceptively simple. There are usually two or three distinct voices, one of which will be an ostinato the coursing piano of \"In Liebe Dein\", or the thrumming bass clusters of \"Fabelwein\" while the others modulate thematic material around it in windy, twisting lines. Sometimes, the ostinato is left out in favor of sheer thematic exploration, as on \"Inselmoos\", where Roedelius manipulates a sticky harpsichordlike motif through major, minor, and hints of chromatic modes. The music is usually solidly tonal, eschewing dissonance to create a sense of everlasting flow. Roedelius preferred gambits of harmony and counterpoint one of his favorites is to let a clump of established intervals suddenly unclench and go wheeling across an octave or more. It's not that the music isn't brainy: The carefully patterned pitches, timbres, and durations of \"Girlande\", for instance, suggest a lot of forethought. But it doesn't make a big deal about its braininess. Each track is intent on clearly illuminating a musical notion. The groovy lowfrequency bagatelle \"Signal\" seems to preemptively summarize Boards of Canada in less than 12 seconds. The Selbstportraits can be monotonous; monotony is part of their charm. Roedelius' versatility with limited resources imbues the music with what can only be described as a deep humanity a mandatory thoughtfulness. \"Prinzregent\" has a remotely Asian cast, while \"Herold\" gestures at funk. \"Halmharfe\" has a Nordic dolefulness, and \"Arcona\" has a breezy Latin feel. \"Aufbruch\", a standout track from II, introduces the pointillistic arpeggios of techno into the matrix. But it's all so blended into Roedelius' almostsubliminal style that a cursory listen makes the albums sound monolithic, like one undifferentiated electronic pulse. You have to slow down and attune to both the pace and the narrow palette of Roedelius' world, and then the little differences seem huge. That, all in all, is the magic of this music it inspires the familiar nostalgia of having more appreciation for fewer options. "}