{"label":" VP","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16175/homepage_large.81d08537.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Riddimentary: Diplo Selects Greensleeves","text":" About four years ago, the Jamaican label Greensleeves released a doubledisc greatesthits set called From Dubplate to Download: The Best of Greensleeves Records. The label's been releasing music for decades now, and listening to the set felt like taking a crash course in 30 years of Jamaican anthems, from the the Wailing Souls' slow, organic roots music to the firedup highBPM digital dancehall of recent years. And as compulsively listenable as From Dubplate to Download was, there was enough variety in that long arc that the stuff at the end really didn't belong to the same genre as the stuff at the beginning. When you look back at Greensleeves' catalog, you're looking at a truly varied landscape. As a DJ, Diplo's greatest asset has always been his versatility, his willingness to pull from any and all possible sources in order to keep a party moving. Never Scared, the landmark 2003 mix from Diplo and Low Budget's Hollertronix project, introduced many of us to Diplo's flailing style by finding room for the Bangles and Baltimore club and the Clash and randomass Southern rap microhits; it felt like they were chewing up the whole of popular music and puking it back out in danceable form. In recent years, that DJ style has hardened into something of a shtick as lesser DJs have taken it and run. But Diplo, at his best, still has a rare sense of ruleblurring vision; he managed, for instance, to get an entire festival crowd dumbing out to Ace of Base's \"All That She Wants\" during Major Lazer's set at last year's Pitchfork Music Festival. The whole Major Lazer project is a testament to how much Diplo and partner Switch love Jamaican music in all its stylistic variety, so you'd think that, given Greensleeves' massive back catalog to play with, Diplo would take the opportunity to just go nuts. Not the case. Riddimentary: Diplo Selects Greensleeves, his DJ mix of music from the label's past, turns out to be a love letter to a very specific period in the genre's evolution: The early80s moment when deep onedrop roots reggae was just starting to transform into dancehall. It was a time when all these older stars started to integrate digital drumtriggers and echoey synthesizer lines into their tracks, and when the Barrington Levy/Yellowman style of nonsensical stutterscatting was blowing up. Riddimentary isn't a wideranging dance party; it's a mix that maintains a single mood and a single tempo throughout. You could dance to it, if you wanted, but you could also wash dishes or read a book or drive down a highway in the middle of the night. In focusing on this one instant in the label's history, Diplo shows a sharp understanding of the genre. There's only one track that appears on both the Greensleeves greatesthits record and Riddimentary: \"Telephone Love\", a 1988 crossover hit from Londoner J.C. Lodge, by far the most modernsounding track on Diplo's mix. Riddimentary does have a few big, immortal anthems Gregory Isaacs' \"Night Nurse\", for instance but it's just as likely to chase the genre down the bizarre rabbit holes it was digging at the time. So we get some dubby, digitized instrumental experiments from lifers like Joe Gibbs and Prince Far I. We also get a few tracks very specific to their moment, like \"Police in Helicopter\", John Holt's threat to burn down sugarcane fields if police keep cracking down on marijuana farmers, or \"Eventide Fire a Disaster\", Barrington Levy and General Echo's mournful elegy about a 1980 blaze in a Kingston old folks' home. Riddimentary isn't a defining work of genre exhumation or anything; if you love reggae, you might have a decent chunk of this mix in your iTunes, and the more obscure material probably won't change your life. But it does work as a warm, sustained moodpiece and a serious demonstration that Diplo knows what he's talking about when it comes to this reggae thing. If you happened to hear it in the background, very little about the mix would signal that Diplo was the guy behind it; he barely even digs into his endless supply of airhorn effects and DJ drops. He just plays the background and lets the music do the talking. In this case, that's exactly what he needed to do. "}