{"label":" Goomba","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16201/homepage_large.be5afe65.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Roach Gigz","title":"Roachy Balboa Round 2","text":" Roach Gigz's first Roachy Balboa tape was short and focused. It kicked off with a collection of skeletal bangers, a succession of freewheeling, freeassociative tracks that gave way to a few coherently thematic, melodic statements by the tape's conclusion. With its balance between unpredictable energy and the promise of possibilities, Roachy Balboa was a concisely perfect business card. Roachy Balboa 2 finds Gigz moving from recognition of potential to the execution, and as a result it's a contradictory, exuberant, and confusing mess of a record, its ambition sometimes jumping ahead of his abilities. The tape is all over the place, which can be simultaneously energizing and exhausting. Racks the DJ who mixed the first Roachy Balboa, as well as Young Gully's acclaimed Definition of Gas has a skill for sequencing mixes, knowing when and how to pace a mix's build and release. Given a tracklist that jumps from idea to idea with ADD logic, he seems to have thrown up his hands; it's uncertain whether these tracks could have acquired a stronger sense of narrative purpose, although he does manage to put climactic highlight \"Rockin and Rollin\" near the mix's center. This isn't the record's only highlight, and individual tracks find Gigz covering new creative ground. \"Got Em Like\", for example, finds him working a simple concept, but moving in as many narrative directions as possible linetoline. \"The Real Rosé\" shifts the archetypal party track by giving the intoxicated feeling a relaxed calm. \"The Moment\" finds Gigz addressing the Oscar Grant shooting alongside rappers Young Gully and Marlo, an affecting section that finds all three performers addressing contemporary political issues without falling into typical pitfalls. Each of these tracks suggests that Roach Gigz is brimming with creative ideas. What undercuts this effort is that the ambition sometimes seems to reach beyond his mastery his verses can get lost within themselves, or his jokey asides don't quite connect,  leaving lines that run by you without an impression. Gigz's intricacies and freeassociation can sometimes seem unnecessarily convoluted and slightly overwritten. This inconsistency is forgivable. The main problem with the mixtape is the production, which can grate too frequently; compared with the skittering livewire feel of the beats on the first tape, the production here is a lot more melodic. His producers grab old pop vocal samples that give some tracks a generic feel. Combined with the lack of an overarching focus, the record feels like a grab bag, even as it tests future directions. Roach Gigz has pushed outwards rather than consolidating, which is probably for the best. There are some stumbles along the way. "}