{"label":" Richter Scale / Superball","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16197/homepage_large.6498154c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"...And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead","title":"Tao of the Dead","text":" Tao of the Dead, the seventh LP from embattled hardcoreprog studio junkies ...And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead, is something of a doubleconcept album, running the thematic gamut from the death of rock radio to the work of comparative mythologist Joseph Campbell. It is split into two sections well, suites divided by key. There's a limited edition that comes complete with an extra half hour of music and a graphic novel. There's that cover. Considering, if I told you Tao of the Dead was the band's most strippedback, least bombastic affair in ages, would you believe me? Trail of Dead pared down to a fourpiece for the 10day Tao sessions, reshifting their focus back to guitar and peeling away plenty of the ostentatious orchestralpsych flourishes that’ve bogged them down in the recent past. Save the quarterhour you'll spend with its fivepart closer, Tao of the Dead seems to chop its recent predecessors' average persong runtime roughly in half. Worlds Apart and especially So Divided the nadir of the Trail of Dead catalog dragged on with excessive runtimes and twicetoomany choruses and elaborate instrumental scaffolding that, tarp removed, revealed a house of cards. Rather than blowing out the back end of every song with such a movement, Tao of the Dead maps its grand ambitions over its full length; songs slip by quickly but not without notice, and certain motifs reappear throughout, lending the disc a somewhat hallucinogenic disorientation. Mostly, though, they move; the clipped construction helps, as does the Dark Side of the Moonstyle seamlessness between cuts. But the songs themselves out front with the melodies, easy on the extraneous racket, alternately lovely and bruising are among the most delicate and memorable the band have unleashed. And, smartly, in shifting the focus back to the tunes themselves, they've pushed the grand payoff to the end, once they've really earned it. Opener \"Let's Experiment\" gives way to \"Pure Radio Cosplay\", a sweaty rocker with an almost Stonesy underpinning that laments the death of rock radio, a clever inversion considering it's the band's most radioready track in years. Conrad Keely's roughhewn, guntothehead howl is, like almost everything, pitched down somewhat here on Tao, evincing notes of nearprettiness at times, but he spits out \"Cosplay\" like he really can't believe something like Nickelback exists while he languishes in semiobscurity. Yet the sour, whynotus vibe of World's Apart couldn't be farther from the fantastical worlds Keely touches on here; his lyrics, as they often do, seem dwarfed by the music, but the few he dangles out in front seem to emerge from Keely's full immersion in Tao's mythos. He didn't just namedrop Yes' Relayer and Rush's Hemispheres in preinterviews because there's little or no pause between songs; each conjures a fullyformed universe between your ears, a quality Tao not only aspires to but frequently achieves. As \"Cosplay\" winds down, Keely jumps in with \"Wanna do another?,\" and off they go to \"Summer of All Dead Souls\", elegantly oscillating between space battle to acoustic plea without overselling either. \"Cover the Days Like a Tidal Wave\" lays a spokenword missive over some undulating chords. Despite its title, \"The Wasteland\" is a lovely, sinewy psychgrunge number, gliding nimbly from mellotron to megawatts. And \"Spiral Jetty\" feels like a the start of something overcooked that, in the past, Keely and company might’ve drawn out. Here it doesn't hit the twominute mark, closing out with a bit of dazzling feedback, then easing into the sumptuous \"Weight of the Sun (Or the PostModern Prometheus)\". These aren't epics in miniature, exactly; they move through sections and shift tone gracefully, but individual tracks rarely overstay their welcome, instrumental passages rarely getting more than a few seconds to themselves. When the reprise of \"Cosplay\" swings around again twothirds of the way through the record, it's a surprise every time: shouldn't that've felt longer? Tao, smartly, farms out most of its monolithic hugeness to the record's last two well, six tracks. But not before \"Ebb Away\", the loveliest track Trail of Dead have made since \"Crowning of a Heart\" from The Secret of Elena's Tomb EP nearly a decade ago. A little guitar tumble, remarkable in its understatement, gives way to a crunchy altrock chorus that sees Keely letting go of attachment and doing as its title suggests. It'd make for a helluva closer, but Tao of the Dead isn't about to let anybody off that easy. Onward and upward they go into kosmische whirl \"The Fairlight Pendant\", guitars encircling like three Can records playing at once. It gets to be a little much after a few times through, but I suppose it wouldn't be a Trail of Dead record without some overblown throwback jam, a slack \"Pendant\" happily picks up. But there's still the little matter of \"Strange News From Another Planet\", the fivepart, keyofF, halfa\"Family Guy\" closing suite. \"Strange News\" is a bit like the last three Trail of Dead records in microcosm, lots of movement, with a tendency to drift. The track goes from a lurching altrock swirl to sampling a documentary about teenage homelessness in Seattle to a Source Tagsstyle hardcore pummel and back around again. Some will find the grandiose \"Strange News\" the most thrilling bit of Tao; others may take it as a separate piece entirely, saving it for later or skipping it outright.  So much of Trail of Dead's postSource Tags & Codes output has felt desperate to recapture that nowclassic set’s bluster and heart, only to favor one over the other to the detriment of both. That album’s teeteringonthebrim mix of beauty and furor seems now like lightning in a bottle, the sort of thing you’d spend your life trying (and failing) to replicate. Tao of the Dead does feel, in its songs and structure alike, like the first postSource Tags record not cooled in the giant shadow of their decadeold triumph; more patient, more potent, more dynamic, less overloaded, the band deftly charting out their \"Flight of the Navigator\" death trip, the skewed altprog fantasia between their ears come hurtling to life. Set your controls for the heart of your bong. "}