{"label":" Mad Decent / Sinden","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16199/homepage_large.72014d3f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Sinden","title":"Free Gucci II: The Burrrtish Edition","text":" Last fall, still fresh from a jail stint that disrupted the release cycle of his frequently dazzling The State vs. Radric Davis, Gucci Mane needed a win. Instead, he got The Appeal: Georgia's Most Wanted, a solid but oddly muted affair Pitchfork’s David Drake rightly labeled a “missed opportunity.” The trouble with The Appeal wasn't Gucci, who delivered more of the headdown lyrical prowess that carried his superior 2010 mixtapes Mr. Zone 6 and Jewelry Selection. The problem was the beats, alternately lifeless and illfitting. So Gucci's Appeal material has plenty to gain from recontextualization; the further you can get a deliriously great twofer like \"standing on the sofa spilling liquor on the speaker/ Call the paralegal 'cuz this shit should be illegal\" away from the awkwardly undulating Justice sample in \"Gucci Time\", the better. Enter UK producer Sinden, who following Diplo's lead from last year has compiled a mix of reconfigured Gucci tunes representing the many frayed ends of England's looseknit beat music scene: grime, dubstep, purple, postwhatever. Diplo and company mostly worked with tracks from Gucci's Burrprint 3D tape perhaps the single best encapsulation of Gucci's dual strengths as a technically dazzling MC and total weirdo and the results were almost uniformly disappointing, a lot of gurgling glofi and offkilter electroid shuffle that neither bettered their origin tracks or did much to flatter Gucci's tricky rhymes. Sinden's careful not to replicate the Diplo tape's missteps on Free Gucci II: The Burrrtish Edition, opting to take on the more easily salvageable Appeal material and at its best the set does play like an unfiltered mix of the circa2011 London sound’s many rivers and tributaries. From \"Wonderful\" to \"Lemonade\", Gucci's best stuff finds the MC and the track practically sewn together, his lively slur weaving itself around the sneaky syncopations in the music. It's not that a good Gucci remix is some kind of impossibility Flying Lotus and a few others proved that on the last tape but to really succeed it'd have to preserve both Gucci's worddrunk, expectationtweaking cadences and the grim cacophony to which Gucci is accustomed. With its tottering brainwipe bass hits and stiltedstaccato rhythms, the haunting stutter of current UK dance music would seem a good fit for Gucci. Indeed, everyone, even the project's least likely contributors mathrock whizzes These New Puritans locate some midpoint between the grim and the gigantic. Some opt to switch out the beat entirely, while many attack it head on, complicating the rhythms, transmuting the bass from a throb to a wobble. The trouble, though, is what to do with Gucci, a question for which Free Gucci II has nearly as many answers as it does contributors. A few shove Gucci to the front of their new mixes; others, like Rude Kid, eliminate him entirely. Only Toddla T, who sneaks a bit of AutoTune into \"Trap Talk\", sees fit to treat Gucci's vocals much; perhaps out of reverence, most just let Gucci be Gucci, allowing him to rattle around in the soundworlds they've created. But whether they're delving directly into those Appeal tracks or affixing a Gucci a cappella to their own productions, hardly one of them betters the material from which it came, often letting the tracks run roughshod over the MC. It's not bad bass music; it's just not always very good Gucci Mane music. Keep Toddla T's halfslinky, halfsinister \"Trap Talk\", and DJ Swerve's skittering, milesdeep \"Weirdo\", with its appropriately whacked showing from MC Ghetts. And hold onto Sinden's \"Gucci Time\", which switches out Swizz's swarming Justice lick for a downwardmoving thunk that's far lusher, if no less oppressive. The snarling synths and steadier rhythm of Duke Dumont's \"Dollar Sign\" prove the closest approximation of the classic Gucci sound here, and while it's no better than the original, it's certainly no worse. Hudson Mohawke sticks a piano under \"Party Animal\" halfway between classic house and barrelhouse, lending the track a funhouse delirium well suited for the track's invocations to debauch. Do what you will with Funkineven's intriguing but inessential electro update of \"It's Alive\", Mele's suitably chaotic \"Missing\", and the Blessings' \"It's Alive\", which barely touches its source material. These New Puritans' \"Dollar Sign\" feels unusually spacious and ethereal after 2010's beautifully claustrophobic Hidden; their clattering percussion underscores Gucci's verses nicely, although I can't help but think they would've gone grander for Flocka. But don't even bother with Rude Kid's Guccifree \"Grown Man\", or the Mista Men take on \"Haterade\", both of which downplay some solid Gucci verses and, in the case of \"Haterade\", draw the wretched Pharrell hook well past the point of interminable when it clearly should've been the first thing to go. Equally baffling is the total absence of Gucci’s gregariously awful British accent from 2009's Great Brrritain, a seeming nobrainer that would’ve lent this scatteredbydesign affair a bit of muchneeded cohesion and levity. Scratcha DVA's sorta trancey \"What It's Gonna Be\" and Rustie's offkilter \"Brand New\" feel stilted and not quite finished, like they ran up on deadline and shot over whatever they had. And if they did? Hearing either didn't cost you anything. But the strictly volunteer basis Free Gucci II operates on isn't all that different than the way Gucci tends to work, offering up scads of free music because he understands the 21st century's most valuable currency is exposure. Gucci's mixtapes highlight not just Gucci, but the rappers and producers he favors, a sort of mutual appreciation society that's paid dividends for nearly all parties involved: Flocka, Zaytoven, Drumma Boy. Free Gucci II seems unlikely to turn Gucci fans onto the future sound of London, nor will dubstep kids see too much in Gucci here, given how few of the productions here strike a successful balance between the two. But, much like Diplo's set, the tape's biggest flaw lies in how many of these songs outshine, cover up, or completely rub out the whole reason this thing exists in the first place: it's Gucci. "}