{"label":" Cryptogramophone","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1498/homepage_large.bcdcb137.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brendan Reid","artist":"The Nels Cline Singers","title":"Instrumentals","text":" Yeah, singers. Like Cher. Cher sings on this album. And Madonna. And Sting. In fact, everyone who only has one name, they all sing on this album.If you didn't fall for that, good for you. The recently assembled Nels Cline Singers are guitarist Nels Cline's current touring outfit featuring Devin Hoff on contrabass and Scott Amendola on drums/electronics. And Instrumentals, though issuing forth from the titanic loins of these socalled Singers, is as unsullied by human voice as the rest of guitarist Cline's nonrock work. While Nels spends his days axing for the Geraldine Fibbers, noodling with Thurston Moore, shopping for shoes with Mike Watt, etc., all he's ever really wanted to do was go home and toss back a can of that cold, frothy jazz. Of course, given his background, Cline's never been afraid of inflecting the idiom with ideas borrowed from the more remote quarters of the rock world (exotic pedals, dictatorial spazmandates, etc). That he does so without ever approaching \"fusion\" is to his enduring credit.While Instrumentals suffers a bit in comparison to Cline's previous studio work with the huge Destroy All Nels Cline ensemble, it's mostly because the threepiece lineup curtails some of the wild tonal exploration done on that record. Don't fret, though, these folks still have an awful lot going for them. They can be furiously tight, for one thing, when in rockmode. \"Cause for Concern\" and \"Ghost of the Piñata\" both make for sublime chase music; the former spits convoluted backalley riffs out from between clenched teeth, while the latter heatshimmers with backwards reverb and crystalline arpeggios. \"Suspended Head\", dedicated in the liner notes to the awesome SFbased experimental artrock band Deerhoof, comes off as an even more elastic, unhinged version of the same.In the presence of these tracks, the even more straightforward \"blues mutation\" \"Lowered Boom\" a showcase for Hoff's menacing bowwork and Cline's rawhide chops even starts to sound a little lackluster. They more than make up for it, though, on the less structured pieces. The most immediately likable of these, the fifteenminute \"Blood Drawing\", slowly churns a soup of Canish string squeals into a spacy, arabesque guitar workout. Though it's hard to tell who's doing what at times, it often seems like Amendola is the most interesting noisemaker of the group, stringing together drum loops on the fly and then letting them decay beyond recognition. On the \"freer\" pieces, \"A Mug Like Mine\" and \"Lucia\", it's Amendola too who acts as the loosest cannon, battering away wildly enough to give Cline and Hoff's followtheleader skronk the appearance of regularity.All right, you knew I was going to have to use \"skronk\" sooner or later (and dammit, you would have said it, too). Given the amount of it that's made it onto this record, though, the Singers' capacity for melody and delicacy is pretty remarkable. Cline's relatively spare figures, Hoff's sobbing vibrato, and Amendola's electronic manipulations on \"Harbor Child\" are all equally elegiac. The closer, \"Slipped Away\" probably the most \"composed\" piece on the album is just as simply, sadly beautiful, pursuing the fundamental in slowmotion through a wasted chordal countryside. What's amazing is that this isn't really anything that new for Nels; the faces (and the warped musical personalities behind them) have changed, but it's mainly just another addition to a growing and worthwhile body of work. "}