{"label":" City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16198/homepage_large.7c130fac.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"KORT","title":"Invariable Heartache","text":" Chart Records is a bit of obscure Nashville history, notorious to those who dig through the crates at Grimey's but largely unregarded by those outside the city limits. Founded by Gary Walker in 1962 and purchased by local businessman Slim Williamson in 1964, it was the temporary home of established acts like Junior Samples and Red Sovine, but the emphasis was squarely on young talent with crossover potential, including its biggest success story, Lynn Anderson. Most of its roster might not ring a bell these days, mush less a cash register, but Chart was certainly a label of its moment, when country was entertaining the notion of pop. One Chart artist, a Miss Nashville runnerup named Connie Eaton, married Williamson's son, and they had a daughter named Cortney (now Tidwell), who grew up to become a country singer herself. Nearly half a century after Chart's founding, she is paying tribute to the family business with an album of primarily Chart covers, most of them duets with Lambchop frontman Kurt Wagner. Both represent the seedy Nashville underbelly of local artists actually paying heed to local history, and fittingly, the idea for this collaboration originated on stage at the Basement, where the two sang an impromptu Don Williams cover together. Like the best Nashville duos, their voices are very different yet suit each other well. Wagner's is an eccentric take on a cowboy croon, which makes the weird psychfolkcountry anthem \"Penetration\" more than simply a novelty, while Tidwell's is a robust, breathy version of a traditional starlet, which can sell the delicate quaver of \"A Special Day\" as well as the epic hurt of weeper \"Who's Gonna Love Me Now\". Both communicate with equal ease the regret and invariable heartache of these tunes, especially when they're trading verses. They have chemistry, which illuminates the rollicking \"Pickin' Wild Mountain Berries\" even as it makes solo numbers like \"April's Fool\" (him) and \"Yours Forever\" (her) a bit wan by comparison. The material is perhaps the most surprising aspect of Invariable Heartache. There's a startling wit to these songs, not only in the unexpected title phrase sung in the first line of \"Incredibly Lonely\" but also in the coy wink of \"I Can't Sleep With You\", which goes, \"I can't sleep with you... I can't sleep with you... on my mind.\" It's not hard to imagine any of these songs becoming hits in the 1960s, nestling alongside Tammy Wynette's \"Stand By Your Man\" or Eddy Arnold's \"Make the World Go Away\". Recruiting a skeleton crew from Lambchop as their backing band, Tidwell and Wagner don't try to recreate the classic sound of Chart Records, with all their strings and bells and whistles, nor do they try to update the songs to today's particular popcountry sound. Instead, Invariable Heartache sounds more like one of Lambchop's more countrified records, which is to say the music is both lush and minimal, the sound of so many musicians giving themselves over completely to the song. It's a gateway album to Chart's back catalog, as well as to an adventurous era in Nashville history. "}