{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16207/homepage_large.b0be4b67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"Beans","title":"End It All","text":" As much as any other MC and producer in hiphop, Beans is an auteur. With AntiPop Consortium and across a series of solo records, Beans has honed a signature futurist style typified by intricate fasttalking raps and steely, minimal beats. And while he often raps about the same subject matters as the multiplatinum artists his exquisite and expensive taste in apparel, his prowess both on the mic and between the sheets he does so in ways that are consistently disorienting and inventive. If AntiPop's mission was a deconstruction of hiphop, Beans has been an ever faithful zealot. A flipside of autership can too often be hermeticism, but although Beans' solo albums have been largely selfproduced, he has never shied away from collaborations. His 2006 album Only saw him recording with a pair of jazz instrumentalists, and he's previously worked with producers ranging from Alec Empire to DJ Shadow. His latest album, and first on boundary testing label anticon., End It All, enlists producers as omnivorous as Four Tet and Tobacco and as disparate as disco pushers In Flagranti and Interpol drummer Sam Fogarino. What's remarkable about End It All, though, isn't its variety but its laser focus Beans seems to bend all his collaborators to his singular vision: heavy percussion, deep bass, the sparest of melodic elements, and echoing, nerverattling synthesizer effects. It's an ominous sound, and it suits his rapidfire, anxiousmaking raps well. The album opens with its glossiest track, the Ade Firthproduced \"Superstar Destroyer\", on which Beans offers tonguetwisted boasts over synth flutter and gauzy, upwardwavering chords. \"Deathsweater\" is a funk track whose choruses are as dedicated to clotheshorse collarpopping as its verses are to racing down tangential rabbit holes. On \"Gluetraps\", Four Tet recycles the sort of soft electric piano tones and offkilter synth chirps heard on his last album, while on \"Anvil Falling\" he lays an unexpectedly harsh, squelching lead over headlong rhythm; both are brief interludes on which Beans relentlessly hammers away at single freeassociative verses. Tobacco gets typically skuzzy and analogue on \"Glass Coffins\", burying a loping bassline and 8bit arpeggios under a wash of buzzsaw noise. In Flagranti allow a little of their dark Italo vibe to bubble up in the form of a motorik bassline underneath the sharp snare and lone noisy sample of \"Air Is Free\", while Beans orates in a displaced RunD.M.C. style the combination is, as he says, \"retro in the sense that it's good,\" but still decidedly modern. \"Mellow You Out\" is by far the most distinctive track here, largely due to the album's only guest vocalist, Tunde Adebimpe of TV on the Radio, whose unmistakable wail and falsetto lend the song a touch of human soulfulness otherwise absent in Beans' icy cold aggression. Another odd moment occurs on \"Hardliner\", when the noholdsbarred MC engages in a bit of selfcensorship, bleeping an obvious Cadence Weapon dis amidst telltale mentions of Busy P, TTC, and a shared bill at the Knitting Factory. If Beans' consistency is what holds this album's diverse lineup together, it can also be his occasional pitfall as an MC, as his own cadence can sometimes lock into a predictable singsong rise and fall, every other syllable a hard accent, to the point that the yoyoing begins to detract from the dazzling flow. Ultimately, though, End It All, is another wellearned notch in Beans' solo belt and a testament to the strength of his artistic vision anyone who can get a convincing hiphop beat out of Interpol surely deserves some kind of ambassadorship. "}