{"label":" Old Flame","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16212/homepage_large.52b44a3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"MillionYoung","title":"Replicants","text":" On last year's Be So True EP, Florida's Mike Diaz, aka MillionYoung, showed some promise with intricate, bloopy arrangements swaddling his vocals. His debut LP, Replicants, features a widened stylistic breadth and higher recording fidelity. These improvements should be bellwethers of hope for a genre (chillwave) that may seem to have run its course. But there's a serious problem: he can't really sing. Not that he doesn't try throughout most of Replicants, he aims for the rafters with highpitched vocal yearning, with a very low success rate. Sometimes he can handle it the simple melody of \"Calrissian\" suits him well enough but it's not long before his voice gets tangled, losing grip on the song and wavering unevenly. Replicants' problems extend beyond vocal limitations; the real issue is that, at 13 tracks and 40 minutes, this record plays like a shiftlessly uninteresting, selfparodic slab of warmin2010 pastiche. There are attempts at Panda Bear's Person Pitch jangle, the cutandpaste electronica of (old) Toro Y Moi, Graceland's more drumdriven moments, Washed Out's sleepless nostalgia, and even the strungout indiepop of Beach House. No one's ever been arrested for sonic impersonation, but the album's unwillingness to sit still makes for an aggravating fronttoback listen. Its multiple false endings three by my count, and that's excluding the shambolic \"bonus track\" tacked on to the end of \"Synanthropic\" cruelly prevent the whole mess from just stopping already. Granted, this is a genre known more for shorterform EPs than LPs, which leaves open the possibility that Diaz simply bit off more than he could chew and perhaps there could be better things yet to come. Still: If this is the result when one of chillwave's brighter lights attempts to release a musical product that's more than four songs long, it stands as a giant red flag hoisted above the genre's future. "}