{"label":" Nature Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16209/homepage_large.a0e7af4c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Metal Fingers / DOOM","title":"Special Herbs: The Box Set Vol. 0-9","text":" Hiding behind a mask and a plethora of pseudonyms while working in collaboration as both spotlightgrabbing rapper and behindthescenes producer, MF Doom has enjoyed two decades as one of hiphop's most restless and prolific artists. The vast Special Herbs project, an allinstrumental series of discs put out under his Metal Fingers moniker, would seem to form the center of Doom's ample discography, at least in terms of quantity. But despite the sheer amount of music collected under the Herbs banner 10 volumes released in a variety of formats between 2001 and 2005, enough to rival another artist's career output the series is often discussed as if it were a sketchbook of Doom's production ideas that is less essential than official \"finished\" albums like Operation: Doomsday or Madvilliany. That's not particularly surprising, but it is a little unfair. On the one hand, the Herbs line mostly act as a compendium of instrumentals Doom produced for both himself and other rappers over the course of his career, from his early 1990s days with Native Tongues satellites KMD to his 21stcentury rebirth as monsterloving underground polymath. Casual fans might wonder why, especially if they own the original rap albums these tracks spring from, they need to grapple with this much previously released material in instrumental form. But these releases are far from just being DJ tools or freestyle fodder for amateur MCs. They offer a chance for anyone to revel in Doom's breadth and inventiveness, to appreciate his headspinning stylistic shifts as a producer by bringing the beats to the foreground. Make no mistake most of these tracks sound plenty \"finished\" even in rhymeless form. And as a document of an underground producer's life's work (so far), the Herbs series is rivaled only Doom's friend and fellow manic archivist Madlib in both scope and completeness. The box slaps all previous Herbs installments onto 10 slabs of DJfriendly vinyl, while also offering a digital download of the full series and bonus material for those rabid Doomheads who apparently didn't get enough with their first 10 doses (for this review, I listened to digital files). The bonus cuts include a 7\" with two slices of lofi R&B nostalgia, the tense trunkrattler \"Constipated Monkey\" and the richer brassandorgan 60s fantasia \"Project Jazz\", their \"lost jukebox 45\" quality fitting the oldschool vinyl single format perfectly. There's also a whole disc of unreleased material that ranges from the whimsical, Muppetsampling \"Humrush\" to the standup bass showcase \"It Sounded like a Roc!\", though most of the neverbeforeheard tracks stick to the warm, friendly, jazztinged sound of the 90s underground, rather than Doom's harsher psychedelic/futuristic outings. Naturally, 12 new tracks on top of 71 previously released cuts will only be an enticement to megafans who decided to preorder this set the day it was announced. But whatever the package, whether this lavish vinyl collection or the multidisc mixed CD compilation Nature Sounds released a few years back, the Herbs are an essential buy for 21stcentury beat freaks. Doom covers so much ground that it might be a little surprising for those who haven't been following his career for the last two decades, with something to please both hiphop classicists and experimentalleaning bboys on every disc. Do you miss the strutting Metersderived funk of 90s hiphop? Find plenty of it here. Or the way producers once shamelessly flipped classic rock/R&B chestnuts, letting you revel in the original hook with the bonus of a punchy rap beat? Well, Doom does his own brand of disco editing on the Doobie Brothers' \"What A Fool Believes\" on \"Mandrake\". Are you a newschool fan of the tweaked psychedelic beatscapes of the Brainfeeder crew? Doom seems anticipate those as well, making the decadeold Herbs feel more uptodate than you might expect. Sure, he's got his signature tricks, and yes some of these tracks will always feel like backing tracks in search of a rapper. But much of Doom's instrumental output is varied and listenable enough all on its own, full of gorgeous (the weeping violin on \"Syrax Gum,\" the fluttering Spanishtinged funk guitars of \"Chrysanthemum Flowers\") and often untrammeled melodies courtesy of his original sample sources. He's equally at home with lusherthanlush symphonic soul homage and disorienting krautrockesque noise refashioned into necksnapping NYC minimalism, a breadth which justifies the Herbs' status as standalone product. Some tracks offer the kind of antic and hookheavy funkcollage that once made \"DJ records,\" from Steinski to the Invisibl Skratch Piklz, plenty of fun without a rapper in sight. And even the more static and laidback cuts make for excellent, immersive background music. The luscious detailing and wild sonic changeups of the Herbs recall a time when people didn't necessarily need an MC to appreciate the intricacies of a killer cutandpaste job, when many were happy to lose themselves in the headnodding repetition of a densely layered loop. "}