{"label":" Cryptogramophone","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1499/homepage_large.24bc84b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"The Nels Cline Singers","title":"The Giant Pin","text":" When people think of wellknown guitarists, it's the Zakk Wyldes and Eddie Van Halens of the world who usually come to mind. Yet there is at least one guitar demigod who has languished in obscurity and poverty for over 20 years: Having helmed neither a formidable fan base nor a single wellselling album, Nels Cline is a quiet pioneer whose contributions to rock, jazz, and the avantgarde are deeply felt but who will likely never be credited with a signaturemodel Gibson.Considering all the stylistic liberties Cline has taken cavorting from idiom to idiom and leaving his unique treads on all of them mainstream recognition was probably always wishful thinking. But heightened exposure is what Cline seemed to be after when earlier this year he posted a frustrated, almost apologetic letter on nelscline.com announcing he was joining Wilco. After a life of devout gigging, Cline was suddenly stressing the often blissfully ignored desire to do something lucrative and, in a somewhat defensive tone, attempted to preempt charges of perfidy from longtime followers of his jazz and fringe work.The charges came, but they were marginalized, and the response to Cline's work on Wilco's A Ghost Is Born tour was overwhelmingly positive. Typically saddled with tossedoff AM radio mentions and the occasional Neil Young nod, Wilco were now drawing comparisons to Sonic Youth and Can and garnering effusive reviews for an increasingly exploratory live show.While all of this might earn Cline some long overdue exposure, the man hasn't as many feared abandoned his roots, and on The Giant Pin, a new album with his backing group The Singers, he makes sure to touch all his bases. The album essentially consolidates all the patois in which Cline has made his mark, deriving a twisted Clinean Esperanto that's something of a mouthful.\"Blues, Too\" kicks things off in familiar fashion, riding a fractured blues riff atop nimble, slightly amorphous brush work. Quiet and deceptively simple, the song is a pleasant prelude to \"Fly, Fly\", on which a pluggedin Cline delivers all manners of curlicues and arabesques. For four minutes there are no surprises the first track has plenty of the same polymathic noodling and offthewall drumming that marked earlier Cline releases such as Destroy All Nels Cline and Interstellar Space Revisited. But then things begin to fog up in an orgy of fills, effects, and scratching before a drum machine boots the song into a new direction: chugging rock punctuated with sundry bits of feedback and squall. Of course, it's only a digression, and once the overtones have rung out, Cline punctuates the track with a crisp bluesy figure.That unexpected detour isn't an anomoly, however. \"He Still Carries a Torch for Her\" reinforces the point, excising the jazz influences of the first two tracks as Cline hammers home a roiling psychrock riff. In the hands of a flimsier player the song might have been a flop, but Cline finds a way to generate intrigue through an extended, effectsladen improv section, showing a side of his playing that would have fit amid the murky din of Wilco's \"Less Than You Think\". From there, \"Something About Devin H.\" delves further into formless atmospherics, while \"The Ballad of Devin Hoff\" starts off sultry and slow before building to a roaring climax.Cline has fused his jazz and rock interests before but The Giant Pin takes both poles to heretofore untouched extremes especially at the lowvolume end of the spectrum. Stark stylistic and dynamic contrasts pervade the album, yet the transitions are smooth. The record is quieter and more restrained than other The Singers releases, making it a rewarding if slightly less exhilarating final product. Whether Cline will continue to cleave himself from the gigging life remains to be seen, but for now he's handling the balancing act quite nicely. "}