{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16221/homepage_large.a1e8a9a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Mouse on tha Track","title":"Swagga Fresh Freddie","text":" A few years ago, the Baton Rouge rap label Trill Ent. was a regional powerhouse that seemed primed for some sort of pop crossover moment, thanks to the outsized personalities on its roster and the springy, electric bounce beats from house producer Mouse on Da Track. In 2011, though, that moment of impending pop crossover is a distant memory, as the label's outsized personalities namely Lil Boosie can't seem to go six months without some sort of serious arrest. And yet Mouse abides, cranking out one elastic throwback banger after another and developing a seriously infectious rap style all his own. And here we have the hourlong Mouse solo mixtape, Swagga Fresh Freddie, proof of something I've long suspected: Mouse should be just fine on his own. For years, Mouse has been the production force behind his crew's biggest hits, like Boosie's \"Zoom\" and Foxx's \"Wipe Me Down\". His tracks were more strippeddown, functional versions of the jittery synthbounce jackhammers fellow Louisiana production hero Mannie Fresh used to make during Cash Money's first commercial heyday. More recently, Mouse has thrown scenestealing guest verses on tracks like Lil Cali's \"Ric Flair\" and Jimi Jump's \"2 Pieces\" remix, snatching the spotlight from the other rappers on the tracks just by having more fun than anyone else. This isn't a Kanye situation, where a producer transcends his way to rapstar status by introducing an original persona that rap hasn't seen before. There's nothing all that compelling about Mouse's persona; he's a club clown who loves rapping about cars and money and girls. But he loves rapping about that stuff takes obvious joy in it which makes him stand out on a label where Boosie's heliumvoiced gangsta paranoia is the dominant voice. And he's got a bit of Juvenile or Nelly or D4L's Fabo in his delivery a melodic snap that makes throwaway moments sound thrilling just because he turns every last line into a hook. Swagga Fresh Freddie is exactly what you'd hope for from a Mouse fulllength all those great hooks and guest verses drawn out to an hour, without much in the way of filler or bullshit or anything that could distract from the party. It could stand to be a little shorter than it is, and you could straightup delete the final quarter of it from your iTunes without missing much. (The world didn't need another \"Black and Yellow\" freestyle, and it's pretty jarring when Mouse halfassedly sings War's \"Why Can't We Be Friends\" on one chorus after delivering so many great choruses of his own.) But when it's on, holy shit: The twominute \"Turn Da Beat Up\" is everything you need to know about this tape a ridiculously propulsive bounce track that recalls hundreds of forgotten early90s New Orleans bounce hits and never pauses for anything as pedestrian as an actual rap verse. \"Cartoon\", which originally appeared on Boosie's 2010 behindbars album Incarcerated, is even better. The whole track has a deliriously, irresistibly dumb concept Mouse feels like he's living in a cartoon and he commits to it with the gusto of someone who loves what he's doing. The complete chorus: \"Going Spongebob on em! Going Ninja Turtle on em! Going Bart Simpson on em! I'ma transform on em! Going Bugs Bunny on em! Going Mickey Mouse on em! Going Blues Clues on em! In a cartoooon.\" It's so fun, and even Boosie gets in on the ridiculousness. \"I'm always in trouble, call me Garfield the cat!\" that's one way to talk about your ongoing murder trial. The whole tape plays out like that. Mouse impersonates Bill Cosby on one track and Shredder on the next. And you won't find any reference to his label's legal woes, beyond this line: \"I ain't thuggin', I ain't dealin', I ain't tryna go to prison.\" That sentiment separates him from a whole lot of the rap universe, even if he is delivering it on a track about how he's not afraid to beat your ass. But Mouse's music isn't about tension; it's about the physical euphoria of relief. And in that, it excels. "}