{"label":" Wierd","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16218/homepage_large.9607b11c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Martial Canterel","title":"You Today","text":" A photograph of Sean McBride the Brooklynbased composer who sets sound to tape here under the alias Martial Canterel in the booklet of his new LP, You Today, depicts him surrounded by vintage synths and vast snakelike deposits of wires. The photograph frames McBride as a custodian staring pensively at his collected wares. But his curatorial role doesn't stop short at his hardware collection. His work here, and as onehalf of Xeno and Oaklander, pays slavish homage to the antirock artifice of the coldwave scene from the early 1980s, much of which has been revived, reissued, and subsequently regurgitated via the Minimal Wave label. You Today is an attempt by McBride to feed through another oblique Xerox of that era, where austere vocals are stiffly reinforced by frigid layers of synths, all set in rigid motion by the brutal clop of a vintage step sequencer. There's a skill at work that's undoubtedly impressive. The world may have stopped turning for McBride with the spread of glasnost across the former Soviet Union in the late 1980s, but he's probably spent most of his time between then and now finely honing his craft. Opener \"Occupy These Terms\" is layered with synth rhythms that interlock and break apart at just the right moments. The alacrity of the tinny drum machine pulls this work in line with the Futurists' love of speed and motion, while lyrics about the decaying of \"aging walls\" that highlight \"a need to change\" mirror that movement's fetishization of the industrial city and a desire for humankind to rise up against the natural world. Those concepts are strung throughout You Today, with McBride often finding himself in perpetual motion, singing about \"a strategy for moving around\" (on \"Sidestreets\") and \"moving back along lost tracks\" (on \"Secret Stores\"). He twins those speed/antinature slants on \"The Empty Sand\", although his bloodless delivery never hints at any emotion felt by the events he sings about. Deadpan vocals are a basic facet of coldwave, of course, but the colorless utterances here cause a sense of ennui to seep through the cracks after a while. Sadly, the sole attempt to break with protocol, in the minutely higher range flexed on \"Still a Part\", only serves to further highlight his shortcomings as a singer. Despite such deficiencies, the album occasionally bristles with invention, mainly when the urge to stray into overt pop territory is quashed. \"Some Days\" skillfully circles downward by matching contrasting light/dark synth inflections; \"Don't Let Me Go\" is built around a stubborn wall of spidery white noise that all but obliterates McBride's distant vocal passages. Aside from those fleeting moments of inspiration, there's not much here that pushes this beyond pastiche. The playing is impeccable, but it feels like the work of an archivist. It explains why McBride's vocals lack conviction it's the one part of his arsenal that can't be studiously labored over until it's shorn of anything that's recognizably \"him.\" It's possible that You Today would have worked better as a series of instrumentals, but even that wouldn't dispel the feeling that this is a journey that reaches deep into the past and remains trenchantly stuck there. It's a shame, because other minimal synth revivalists (Cold Cave, Led Er Est) have shown a way forward for this music, by skillfully extracting pertinent signifiers from their record collections and giving them a chance to breathe in a 21st century context. For McBride, that vision of the future remains frustratingly out of reach. "}