{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16219/homepage_large.b49cc179.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Tim Hecker","title":"Ravedeath, 1972","text":" There are plenty of synth and drone artists that make epic, transportive music, but one of the unique things about Tim Hecker is his conceptual ability. Each of his records, from the cinematic rush of Harmony in Ultraviolet to the dreamedup cartography of An Imaginary Country, explores a specific theme, often in great detail. When he talked to us last month about the artwork for his latest LP, Ravedeath, 1972, Hecker mentioned that he'd been consumed with the idea of sonic decay. \"I became obsessed with digital garbage,\" he said. \"Like when the Kazakstan government cracks down on piracy and there's pictures of 10 million DVDs and CDRs being pushed by bulldozers.\" That idea, the notion of music as a cheapened, battered object, touches nearly every aspect of Ravedeath, 1972, a dark and often claustrophobic record that is arguably Hecker's finest work to date. The album is based on a single day's worth of recordings in a church in Reykjavik, Iceland, where Hecker used a groaning pipe organ to lay down the foundation for its tracks. (Throughout, you can hear the vastness of this place, as sounds ricochet around, bounce off the rafters.) With help from Icelandbased producer Ben Frost whose ominous By the Throat is a touchstone here Hecker then finished the record in studio, digitally adding synth wash and wailing shoegaze crunch to his live recordings. The result is a strange hybrid that lives somewhere between the digital and material realms, and it's remarkable how seamlessly the two are combined. For example, in a track like \"In the Fog II\", it's difficult to distinguish between the organic church sounds and the processed ones that came after. But while there is harmony between the source material, Ravedeath, 1972 is by no means about prettiness or tranquility. Hecker pits noises against one another in such a way that creates a constant push and pull between discord and beauty. It's a bit like William Basinski's Disintegration Loops, but instead of music aging over time, this is far more combative like these songs are being attacked from the inside out. It's an unusual concept but relevant given the rate at which music is consumed and discarded these days. More important than the record's ideology, though, is what Hecker does with it the weight, atmosphere, and contrast he builds into these songs. Take for example the \"In the Fog\" suite, where over three tracks, Hecker lets dissonant squall threaten an undulating organ drone until it's taken over by wailing guitar noise in third passage. Or the twopart \"Hatred of Music\", which recalls an Oneohtrix Point Never synth shimmer before it disintegrates into distant industrial creaks. In each case it's not just about the wild, unearthly sounds he creates but the force with which they move around the mix. Hecker is also smart with pacing and knows when to dial things back or add in softer, interstitial numbers when things start to become overwhelming. That's the case in the record's back half where he uses openended pieces to achieve the same foreboding effect. \"Studio Suicide, 1980\" is almost dreamy but has a sinister undercurrent, sounding something like the more punishing moments of My Bloody Valentine's \"Only Shallow\" heard through the walls of a neighbor's apartment. I wouldn't go so far as to call songs like this and \"Analog Paralysis, 1978\", which has a similar celestial vibe, \"ambient,\" but they are subtler than those in the first half and give the album a sense of balance and a natural arc. If you buy into the concept of Ravedeath, 1972 as an examination of music threatened by technology, there are pretty clear threads that pop up over the course of the record to support that. For one, it seems that the organ sounds Hecker captured back in that Rejkjavik church represent a certain purity of sound and that the digital noise battering it throughout act as the enemy, the corrosive effect. There's an ongoing struggle between the two that's mirrored in the menacing song titles and gripping cover art. It's important, then, that the album closes with \"In the Air III\", a track that features almost no interference whatsoever, just the plinking organ by itself. If I'm reading it right, it feels like Hecker's point is that music, in its purest form, survives no matter what you throw at it. "}