{"label":" Dirtnap","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16229/homepage_large.642d63c1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Mind Spiders","title":"Mind Spiders","text":" Mind Spiders whose selftitled debut was conceived almost entirely by frontman Mark Ryan during downtime from his gig in the Denton, Tex., outfit Marked Men don't present themselves as a particularly careful or calculating act. Playing fast and loose, Mind Spiders exist in a universe where the Flaming Sideburns never crumbled under the weight of garage rock revival excitement, where pulsequickening legends Jay Reatard and (fellow Dirtnap Records alums) the Exploding Hearts never met their tragic ends. The songs on Mind Spiders are energetic but not inyourface, fun but not goofy, sharp but not stifled, wild but not boorish. In essence, it's a rock record that pulls no punches, and it's all the more endearing because of it. Mind Spiders define their sound right out of the gate, sporting tightlywound, zoetropic riffs that sound blasted from sandfilled amps. There's also a touch of Bmovie fetishism thrown in scifi sound effects are not just fillers; they carry melodies, with mummymovie organs and squiggly raygun feedback contributing some Plan 9 camp. Add a little glammy pomp and a healthy amount of the Ramones' bop, and you've got a ripping collection of songs. When Ryan branches out a little, the results are equally appealing. \"Read Your Mind\" is a softwaltzing ballad, reminiscent of the kind of 1950s slowdance moves that plenty of lofi dabblers have shown a weakness for recently. But like the rest of Mind Spiders, there's something simple and genuine about the approach when Ryan is whooping it up, he's isn't thumbing his nose at anyone. Conversely, when he slows things down or tries on a little psychchanneled blues (\"Slippin' And Slidin'\"), you don't get the sense he's mining for cheap nostalgia. Ultimately, Mind Spiders is tailormade for those of us who value that fouronthefloor reverie above all else. \"Don't Let Her Go\" feels akin to Reatard's Blood Visions with a popsmart bent, and \"Neurotic Gold\" is... exactly that. \"One Step Ahead\" embodies the broken heart at punk's center, taking a crestfallen turn without letting the rhythm slow a terrific little song, but one that might have you sneaking a peek at your watch every so often. And almost right on cue, in kicks \"No. 3\", a rocketfueled Radio Birdman homage that makes you wish the record were twice as long. "}