{"label":" Human Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16233/homepage_large.74fcdddd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Tahiti 80","title":"The Past, the Present, and the Possible","text":" The winsomely cute Frenchmen in Tahiti 80 have been bouncing around the international rock scene since the early 1990s, playing the kind of blithe, bouncy, and buffedtoahighgloss indie pop that French bands do so well. So they've certainly put in the work, outlasting many indie nextbigthings over the last decadeplus. But they've also never achieved a hit on par with their peers in, say, Phoenix. The disparity between the band's dogged longevity and their limited success isn't hard to account for. Like so many bands who litter used CD bins and MP3 blogs, Tahiti 80's music has always been just good enough to ensure a modest fanbase happy enough to check out an album every two years or so. They're a wannabe pop act in search of that one really great pop song, let alone a whole album full of them. Tahiti 80 have just never written a hook as strong as the ones you'll hear on \"1901\" or \"Lisztomania\", and after six albums, you wonder if they ever will. On the evidence of The Past, the Present, and the Possible, they're still searching for one of those choruses that lingers in your head all day, as much as you might like it out of there. The main problem is the songwriting, which could charitably be described as a wellexecuted but ultimately ignorable mix of lightweight powerpop and smooth softrock clichés, played as competently as possible and yet without an ounce of verve, joy, whatever. But frontman Xavier Boyer's mimsy mewl is also a stumbling block to Tahiti 80's pop ambitions. Boyer's voice has all the character and dynamism you'd expect from a second tier indiepop band, however polished the end product. Not that Phoenix's Thomas Mars is Marvin Gaye in the pipes department, but he can honestly get across pop ecstasy, even if it's the laidback sort. Of course when you call your second album Wallpaper For the Soul, you might as well be announcing that your ambitions don't extend much beyond making incredibly slick background music for the Adult Alternative set. Same as it ever was then on The Past, the Present, and the Possible, though as indieasbackgroundmusic goes you could do a lot worse, especially these days. Like many French bands, Tahiti 80 mine heartbreak and hedonism equally, and while their music may sound lovesick, the overall vibe is also one of sun, sand, and good times. It's a triptothebeach soundtrack, in other words, at least if the beach we're talking about is in Ibiza. Perhaps rather than a pop album, where it pales, it's better to think of The Past, the Present, and the Possible as one of those (often French) chillout comps that were everywhere around the turn of the millennium, where it would be a standout. Plus compared to the glut of (mostly American) indie bands exploring a similar beachcombing sound recently, Tahiti's grasp of basic songwriting makes them sound more like pop geniuses than pop wannabes. Like most bands who list the Beach Boys as an influence, Tahiti 80 are kidding themselves if they think they've even reached a Surf's Up level of quality here, but compared to the bulk of the chillwave crew, they're Phil Spector and Brian Wilson rolled into one. "}