{"label":" Bpitch Control","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16226/homepage_large.1738d58e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Werkschau","text":" Techno labels earn no points for being versatile. When BPitch Control launched around the turn of the millennium, it had one primary thing going for it a rocksolid identity. That this identity was owed almost entirely to the whitehot streak label founder Ellen Allien was riding didn't matter. BPitch was a totem for Berlin and for the popinfluenced wing of the microhouse sound. In the intervening years BPitch has forfeited its hyperfocused creative identity in favor of a friendsandfamily approach. This has allowed Allien freedom to cultivate her own personal techno sphere incorporating a wide range of artists and styles the Boogybytes mix series has been successful, for the most part but it has also hinted at the type of slow decay that this approach can foster. In the last few years especially it has seemed that Allien and BPitch have done everything just a little bit wrong, and so it goes with Werkschau, the label's latest compilation, a labelspanning collection of unreleased material. Werkschau (translation: showcase) isn't a terrible idea, just an odd one: The label is not marking any significant anniversary or milestone. Seventeen tracks is hardly a vault cleansing, but it's also quite a bit of music, and no one really thought that BPitch was sitting on techno's The Basement Tapes in the first place. Werkschau will not stoke the flames under upcoming BPitch releases. But, importantly, Werkschau is fun to listen to, and not because it offers a lot of nostalgic kicks. It is a ragtag collection of light, effervescent techno, one that features deft pop flourishes, if few surprises. The selections on Werkschau clock in almost uncannily between four and five minutes, suggesting that BPitch had some plan here: to showcase the best album tracks (as opposed to 12\" dance singles) left in its coffers. Allien is still the bellwether; slotted second, \"The Kiss\" is one of her most houseindebted moments (no micro), and much of what follows leans on that genre's warm electric pianos and familiar bass kicks. Simple genre placeholders like Zander VT's \"Gotta Look Up to Get Down\" and Kiki & Lenz's \"Morning Maniacs\" offer a camp around which the rest of Werkschau can settle. There are some surprises: Jahcoozi show up with an especially R&Bindebted take on triphop; Paul Kalkbrenner's \"Plätscher\" is dewy, blended kosmische. The nowdefunct Telefon Tel Aviv collaborate with Robin Guthrie for gorgeous, strobing technorock. I prefer the slight, vocaloriented tracks (Timtim's \"How We Moove\" is reminiscent of the Notwist; Dillon & Coma's \"Aiming for Destruction\" is mildly sassy) because, to be quite honest, BPitch has rarely had the type of athletic, focused producers necessary for longform dance, Sascha Funke excepted. As a collection, Werkschau features no internal narrative and offers no grand perspective on BPitch. (If you were to write a onesentence bio based solely on Werkschau it might read, \"BPitch was a housey label with some good producers and some anonymous ones,\" and that would only be about half right.) It's only minorly indicative of \"the BPitch sound,\" certainly less so than the Camping series, which began in 2005 (by which point Mark Pytlik had already noted a dissolution in the label's identity). The title implies something utilitarian and under construction fine. It's hard not to want more: a truer retrospective, or some sense that BPitch is doing more than treading water between Allien releases (an album comprised of remixes of her last album, Dust, drops in March, natch). BPitch is doing more, of course, but Werkschau doesn't do much to highlight it. It's the rare album that is as impossible to recommend as it is easy to enjoy. "}