{"label":" Memphis Industries / Rare Book Room","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16232/homepage_large.81d4e289.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Banjo or Freakout","title":"Banjo or Freakout","text":" Banjo or Freakout's harmonykissed bedroom music languishes in negative space. The songs that Banjo principal Alessio Natalizia lets peek out above the grey float along somewhere between the haunted bygone pop of Bradford Cox's Atlas Sound and the ponderous swirl of Panda Bear, their tempos and hooks decidedly impressionistic. In his review of Banjo or Freakout's Way Slow odds and sods compilation last year, Pitchfork's Zach Kelly pegged Natalizia's songs as \"ghosted\": You can make out their vague outlines and maybe a sense of their spirit, but what's missing often seems more striking than what's actually there. The music's wave machine textures and gently lulling halfsongs wash over you, and your thoughts will inevitably wander. Sometimes it's bliss; others, boredom. Natalizia recorded Banjo or Freakout with Nic Vernhes at the Rare Book Room in Brooklyn, and Vernhes' naturalistic production style deepens the expanses in Natalizia's sound while maintaining its clean lines and immersive chill. What seems at first like a steely, almost surgical minimalism reveals rippling textural undercurrents throughout, lots for the ear to work out. But once you've wandered out into Natalizia's haze a few times and grown accustomed to the fog, you start to realize there's not always much behind it. Natalizia sings in a sustainladen, slightly otherworldly pitch not unlike Brad Cox or Noah Lennox, but he's got little of the former's slippery delivery and only a touch of the latter's belllike clarity, with a nasty habit of swallowing syllables all his own. His selfharmonizing can be lovely and seminarcotic, but Natalizia's voice doesn't have quite enough character to drive his ineffectual songs. \"Go Ahead\" and \"Move Out\" fare well enough and the throaty \"Can't Be Mad For Nothing\" feels like \"My Girls\" in greyscale. But save a few darker flutters that cop a move or two from Amnesiacera Radiohead and the gorgeous upfromunderneath gurgle of closer \"I Don't Want to Start All Over Again\", the rest of the songs feel meek, unwilling to assert themselves over the music's delicate swirl. Beyond a tricky turnaround here and a nice little vocal doubleup there, these tracks feel frail, mostly just sort of whisking by, as though they'd float away were they not weighed down by the translucent synth film. But if you take Banjo or Freakout as an ambient record first and a pop album second, the balance starts to shift in its favor. Natalizia's got a ways to go as a songwriter, but with the help of Vernhes, he's quite a sensualist, his snowdrift sonics capable of both delicacy and heft. There's a lot of territory covered between the shimmering shuffle of \"Idiot Rain\" and the epic Jesulike crunch of \"Black Scratches\", and even if the hooks of either won't exactly knock you out and chances are they won't the luxuriant production does help push along the more melodically wanting material. Once Natalizia writes some songs better flattered by his sonic sense, I suspect he'll really have something here. "}