{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16225/homepage_large.a37e7691.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"The Cave Singers","title":"No Witch","text":" Seattle, as much as any city, has benefited in the past few years from a renewed interest in all things folky and pastoral. Shaggy folk traditionalists Fleet Foxes are the city's most successful band of the moment, and Sub Pop is hoping to replicate that success with the more charismatic but also more conventional young outfit the Head and the Heart. Swing a banjo in that town, and you're likely to hit any number of other equally rootsy bands. It's easy to see why this music could take root in Seattle, surrounded as it is by fertile farmland and the natural inspiration of mountain ranges, rainforests, and scenic waterways. But it's worth remembering that Seattle is also a dark, gray, miserable puddle most of the year. Sure, it's great to lay out in a field and strum your guitar, but 10 months out of 12, your ass is gonna get soaked right through. And it's a place not without its own (admittedly aerospace) rustbelt and daylight hatchet murders and killer cops and all the claustrophobia of city life compounded with all the isolation of the middle of nowhere. Which brings us to the Cave Singers, a Rain City trio whose latest batch of rustic blues reflects a Pacific Northwest slightly less idyllic than their peers might lead you to imagine. Cave Singers' Pete Quirk, Derek Fudesco, and Marty Lund came to Americana from, respectively, the seedy new wave of Hint Hint, the grim punk rock of Murder City Devils, and the opulent analog synth prog of Cobra High. No surprise then that some of those darker moods would show up in the Cave Singers' more strippeddown arrangements (and, really, you can only get so opulent on a floor tom). On No Witch, their third album and first since leaving Matador for Jagjaguwar this dark streak is most apparent on the backtoback songs \"Black Leaf\" and \"Falls\", which together lend the album an early center of gravity. On the former, Fudesco plays a circling electric guitar riff over a stompandclap rhythm accented with flares of organ while Quirk rasps shaky and feverish. The latter slows the same elements down to a menacing guitar lope and backbeat then adds brass and gospel singers to Quirk's bleak muttering. The album ends with the desolate droning of \"Faze Wave\" and the relatively overdriven blues of \"No Prosecution If We Bail\". Not that No Witch is without sunshine. \"Gifts and the Raft\" opens the album with some untroubled harmonies and a fiddle jig muted enough to not sound corny. \"All Land Crabs and Divinity Ghosts\" is one long uplift, floating Quirk's declarations of consequence (\"it matters what you do\") on a light galloping rhythm, sprightly fingerpicking, and a bright, rising harmonica tone. And then there's the shorthand mystic drone and bongos of \"Outer Realms\". But even when their songs are at their most hopeful, it feels as if it's in the face of some vague distress. The verses of \"Swim Club\" have a kind of easy, ambling feel familiar from previous Cave Singers songs such as \"Seeds of Night\", but then the choruses swerve into a worrying refrain (\"the streets, watch out\") set to a similarly downcast woodwind. Quirk has grown into his voice, retaining his nasal sting while opening up a fuller and more flexible tenor, while Fudesco's fingerpicking and Lund's drumming are complemented by some of the most generous production the band has had. Like their revivalist peers, Cave Singers aren't reinventing a genre here, but they lend their local folkie scene a welcome dark side, and No Witch is their strongest album yet. "}