{"label":" XL / Young Turks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16234/homepage_large.d5bf2bbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Gil Scott-Heron / Jamie xx","title":"We're New Here","text":" Gil ScottHeron's 2010 album, I'm New Here, was his first of original material in 16 years and best in three decades. But though it was a joyful return to the living for the oncehomeless recovering addict and pivotal figure of preSouth Bronx talking blues, the album is defined by pallor. It's grim stuff, built around ScottHeron's ashestoashes baritone and XL founder Richard Russell's skeletal production, caked in grime and rust. It's essentially a podium for ScottHeron's remarkable voice, everwheezing and cracking, that both supports and condemns his life choices with its grippingly dark magnitude. Jamie Smith, percussionist and producer of the xx, has become a minor celebrity of the postdubstep Brixton scene, earning a reputation as a DJ with his MPC mastery and as an ace remixer, crafting memorable, expansive edits of songs by Adele and Glasser in recent months. Smith, like many linersscanning millennial sound nerds, is a massive ScottHeron fan, and at Russell's suggestion has taken a stab at recontextualizing I'm New Here in service of changing sounds you can practically hear him cycling through subgenres tracktotrack. It's too dangerous to question either the necessity or the motivation behind such a project 22yearold wunderkind cinches cred with resurgent iconoclast, perhaps? but it will come up. Do your best to ignore the impulse, because the residue of death that lingers on I'm New Here is wiped clean from We're New Here. It's replaced with brightness, an energy, and a historical milieu. Smith samples older ScottHeron songs and works them into these newer songs. He takes a rare moment of singing, recorded for but not included on the initial album, and turns it into the Kieran Hebdenindebted \"My Cloud\", a gorgeous and redolent centerpiece. He turns a broken man into a recombinant diva. Smith recently cited the likes of Rjd2 as both a pillar of influence, and the music of his youth and you can hear turnofthecentury collagists like Rj, DJ Shadow, and ElP all over his constructions. Smith also samples and chops unlikely vocal sources, notably a snatch from Justine \"Baby\" Washington's lone hit, 1963's \"That's How Heartaches Are Made\", for the intro to \"The Crutch\", before it erupts into a drum'n'bass burst. Here, Smith's finicky, hardcharging production trumps ScottHeron's voice, overpowering it with ideas, if not focus. But there's a goforit quality to Smith's production that suggests fearlessness over reverence. On the opener, \"I'm New Here\", he lifts a quickened dash of Gloria Gaynor's \"Casanova Brown\", giving the voice some shape and depth, and slyly nodding to a polar contemporary of ScottHeron's. This feels like quite a distance from disco, and yet Smith shortens the gap between ScottHeron's proud missives and exuberant dance music. Each experiment is a gamble; some of these spokenword recitations were meant to be without a speed or brightened exterior a reconsideration of I'm New Here standout \"Me and the Devil\" is noticeably absent here. And this isn't a simple \"Is it better?\" proposition. The sonorous, Bernard Hermannesque \"NY Is Killing Me\" is such a far cry from the handclapping original that there's hardly any comparison at all. Only rarely does something like \"I'll Take Care of U\" happen. That song, the closer, is the purest distillation of Smith's taste for spacious melodrama and cinematic sweep it'd have fit nicely on xx. These two men only discussed the music here, briefly, in handwritten letters. That much shows, though putting them in the same room is the next logical step both for Smith, who claims he has no interest in a solo album, and ScottHeron, who is now back in the consciousness and ready to be pushed hard. Here's to reunions. "}