{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16242/homepage_large.50eceb01.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"King Creosote","title":"Thrawn","text":" King Creosote is the pen and stage name of Kenny Anderson, a Scottish singersongwriter who, since 1995, has recorded and selfreleased over 40 fulllengths on his own remotebutremarkable Fence imprint. At the very least, that's an average of just under three per year, a number that, if other solo recording maniacs (Bob Pollard being a good example) are to serve as helpful guideposts, might lead one to assume that Anderson isn't much for selfediting. But having helped corelease a small handful of Anderson's records over the past eight years, Domino has volunteered to cull the Fifenative's catalogue for Thrawn, a collection of King Creosote favorites that also serves as a compelling introduction for American listeners. Anderson's baffling work rate seems to have adorned his songs with a wide variety of skins. From a curatorial standpoint, what's been arranged and sequenced here goes deep in the name of diversity. The screwball pop flourishes that propel opener \"Bootprints\" and the lovely \"Homeboy\" bleed fluidly into Anglofolk forays like those to be enjoyed in \"My Favourite Girl\" or the zootsuit referencing \"King Bubbles in Sand\". It's a blend heard most prominently in the work of Badly Drawn Boy's Damon Gough or Super Furry Animals' Gruff Rhys, both of whom also do a wonderful job of impressing their own unique, regional sense of humor and sensibility upon their work. Just as gifted, Anderson is of a similar stripe. On the aforementioned opener, he rhymes, \"we rest, we jest, we love ourselves to death but we reek of garlic breath,\" just before the electropop of \"You've No Clue Do You\" uses Clue the board game as a relationship allegory that makes sure to include lyrical appearances by Mrs. Peacock, Colonel Mustard, Professor Plum, and the rest. At the same time, a few songs here are crowded with color and verbiage at the expense of focus, and much to their disadvantage. Because when Anderson zones in, the result is magnetic. \"The ViceLike Gist of It\" is a quiet, churchly drone that Anderson, also the owner of a fine voice, carves up and through to kneebuckling, crystalline effect. The way he delivers the late line, \"It's not that I don't care for you, it's just that I'm unkind,\" is one steamroller to be found here that contrasts really nicely against the zanier fare that comprises much of the record's first half. In fact, that song in particular is a really useful halfwaymark, as much of Thrawn's more outwardly melodic and ambient moments (\"And the Racket They Made\" is deadly beautiful) sprawl out over the course of the disc's second half. Closer \"No One Had It Better\" typifies the experience best in a single dose, though: Over the span of seven very quick minutes, Anderson abandons an early scramble of wonky, often spectral vocal manipulations and synths for a simple guitarandtom groove that locks in and takes off. You can hear his voice loud and clear. "}