{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16236/homepage_large.ee6d9f53.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Malachai","title":"Return to the Ugly Side","text":" By calling their second album Return to the Ugly Side, Bristol stonerfunk pranksters Malachai are implying some sort of connection between the new record and its 2010 predecessor, Ugly Side of Love. But after loading up that debut with nudgewink samples of everything from 1979 cult classic The Warriors to the freakin' Guess Who, the only joke here is that, titular similarities aside, the two albums could not be more different in approach. But then Return to the Ugly Side is all you could hope for from a fledgling act following up a promising debut a sophomore effort that sees the duo of Gary Ealey and Scott Hendy transcending their more obvious influences and unifying their scatterbrained aesthetic into a more singular sound, one that presents all sorts of new possibilities. In contrast to Ugly Side of Love's serrated, patchwork quality, Return to the Ugly Side is clearly designed to be experienced as a single piece, complete with an opening instrumental overture that recurs later in the album, and seamless flows in and out of tracks. And where Ugly Side of Love boasted a hermetic, homemade feel, Return to the Ugly Side has a widescreen scope, with ominous orchestral swells (courtesy of noted BBC composer Ben Salisbury) and thundering drum breaks that give Malachai a heretofore unheard force and sinister majesty. Not coincidentally, the band has taken to posting a series of mixtapes on their Soundcloud page, manically pingponging between 1960s psychedelic pop, dubby 80s postpunk, and bongedout 90s hiphop. Beyond showing off their excellent record collection, the mixes serve to illuminate the raw materials that have been reshaped and refined on Return to the Ugly Side. In effect, Malachai's transformation is not unlike that experienced by their chief mentor, Geoff Barrow of Portishead, as they've subverted their more accessible retrocool reference points for more jarring, disorienting sonic collisions. As on the mixtapes, Ealey isn't shy about evincing his Beatles love, but that kaleidoscopeeyed melodic sensibility is forced to do combat with percussive onslaughts (\"(My) Ambulance\", \"The Don't Just\") or, on \"Monster\", pulverizing industrialized shocks that would sound right at home on Portishead's Third. Even the quietest moments carry a sense of unease, like a gorgeous, ghostly duet with Katy Wainright on \"Rainbows\" that's unnerving in its disaffected calmness, or the smoky jazzbar haze of \"How You Write\". But after impressively raising the stakes for the album's first three quarters, Return to the Ugly Side unfortunately sputters out in the home stretch, forgoing the climactic finale suggested by its cinematic framework in favor of an egregiously punned slackadasical serenade (\"No More Rain, No Maureen\") and a ponderous dubfolk exercise (\"HyberNation\") that brings this brief 35minute album to an unsatisfying conclusion. This would indicate Malachai still have some work to do in separating the inspired from the indulgent. But if they keep at the evolutionary pace set by Return to the Ugly Side, they'll soon be blowing many more minds than their own. "}