{"label":" Wichita","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16257/homepage_large.5920ba5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Dam Mantle","title":"First Wave","text":" Combining two previously released UKonly EPs with an additional five new tracks, Dam Mantle's First Wave is a comprehensive introduction to the Glaswegian producer (real name Tom Marshallsay). Spread over an hour, the set highlights his vast array of styles dubstep variations, foundsound collages, 8bitinfluenced electro, anything that could be termed \"purple\" sometimes all at once. There's an overwhelming amount of material, but First Wave's chronological progression helpfully showcases the development of this frenetic, though sometimes overly ambitious, producer. The first third of the record collects songs from last year's Grey EP and finds Marshallsay at his most manic. Opener \"A Statue That Is Perpetually Unveiled\" contains many different samples running at different speeds flurrying synths, errant ticks and drums, what sounds like a twinkly, forgotten Disney score. Some insidious Gfunk anchors \"Rebong\", while the strangely organic vocals woven into \"Yoghurt\" suggest there are some ghosts in his machines. First Wave's second act focuses heavily on the \"purple\" sound that Bristol's Joker and his compatriots have been fostering. \"Theatre\" and \"Purple Arrow\", in particular, rely on that sound's tweakedup synths and refined lowend. Most of the time, Marshallsay is tearing everything apart, attempting to cobble together something entirely different with the debris. Unlike Joker, Marshallsay jampacks his songs with so many different little details that the music becomes cluttered. There's a sense of relief when he takes the deconstructed route on a few of the brand new songs, crafting two terrifically ruminative tracks (\"The March of the Prince\" and \"Beaching Loom\") that stand out simply because of their ability to breathe a little. There's no denying that Dam Mantle is constantly looking for ways to shift and alter his sound, often at the expense of a reliable groove or palatable bounce. But right now, it's more about exploration and figuring out how things work than just hitting the sweet spots. He's too busy trying to crack these songs open and shake out what's inside. Unfortunately, the music often sounds just plain busy because of it. But First Wave suggests he's close to finding some kind of harmony. Don't be surprised if he strikes the right kind of balance sometime very soon. "}