{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1503/homepage_large.e63f675b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Clinic","title":"Winchester Cathedral","text":" When learning how to swim, the first thing you're taught to do is tread water. It does nothing to transport you, but if all else fails, it keeps you alive. When Clinic splashed down with their selftitled EP six years ago, they seemed capable of so much, and indeed, they accomplished a lot in two years, cranking out three excellent EPs and a debut fulllength, Internal Wrangler, whose brilliance hasn't dimmed one iota with age. Yet, two albums and four years later, they seem content simply to keep their head above water. So much acclaim early on can be difficult for a band to cope with, and even before Internal Wrangler had officially reached U.S. shores, our speculative media culture was already trying to figure out how Clinic could possibly follow such a touchstone. The band were all over John Peel's show, praised from all quarters, and asked to open for Radiohead, and their surgical scrubs schtick initially a joke that helped them garner early attention became a sort of straitjacket: They were even booed once at a London gig for appearing onstage in street clothes when the scrubs were stolen prior to showtime. To Clinic's credit, their sophomore album, Walking with Thee, strived for progression. Its restraint, however, also diluted much of what had made the band so exciting and perfect in the first place. They no longer delved into those erratic, twominute interjections and enthusiastic experiments that had lent Internal Wrangler its schizophrenic unpredictability, and without that exuberant exploration, even Walking with Thee's finest moments felt cold and studied. The madcap infectiousness that had so thrilled listeners originally had been extinguished and along with it, much of their unhinged, unfiltered energy.Walking with Thee was often described as falling about halfway between what Clinic had been and what Clinic could be. The same could be said for Winchester Cathedral. Clarinet and melodica again lead the charge, and Ade Blackburn's voice is frustratingly suppressed throughout, forcing his trademark alphabet soup under an impenetrable wave of surf guitar. But the disc does open promisingly, with a quickening EKG pulse that flatlines under metal chimes, guitars bursting in, and Blackburn churning out nearunintelligible lyrics through clenched teeth. As the drums stomp and the melodica wails, the music could be recognized as no other band than Clinic, and in an instant, it becomes crystal clear that the band have created an utterly unique sound for themselves. Each of the next three songs, however, is built on a similar template. Two of these do throw in some minor variations a Peter Hookish bassline on \"Anne\", or a piano line beneath \"Circle of Fifths\" but the album's first single, \"The Magician\", is essentially \"The Return of the Return of Evil Bill\". The band glides with rhythmic ease through all of this, yet no one song stands apart from the others, and before long, the album hits a wall: \"Vertical Takeoff from Egypt\", a grinding and boring instrumental, leaves off the band's signature spring reverb, feeling totally out of synch with the rest of the record. Later, the album closes with another instrumental, \"Fingers\", which feels like an unfinished vocal track slathered with clarinet and noisy guitar outbursts to cover for its lack of emotional center. The downplaying of Blackburn's vocals is another element detracting from Winchester Cathedral's emotional gravity. On \"The Second Line\", he made complete gibberish sound inexplicably fresh, even transcendent, but mixed beneath the barrage of instrumentation, none of his prior character or personality shows through. The only songs that truly move the album's plot forward come during the album's last quarter: The haunting ballad \"Falstaff\" makes a worthy successor to past Clinic slowsongs \"Goodnight Georgie\" and \"Porno\" its velvety doowop harmonies and wet guitars waltz in a sea of reverb while plaintive clarinet offers a fragile counterpoint to Blackburn's intense refrain. The grotesque Eastern European rock of \"August\", meanwhile, is a radical step forward, even incorporating Klezmer overtones. On these two short tracks, we're given a glimpse at what could be a very promising direction for the band. Unfortunately, the surrounding material shows the band reverting to a bynow very comfortable sound, seeming to indicate that, at least for now, they have put their evolution as a band on the backburner to pursue safer attributes like maturation and continuity, which means that the album finds Clinic stuck in the same transitional territory of Walking with Thee. Winchester Cathedral is not a bad album, and removed from context, most of its songs stand alone well. Still, one can't shake the feeling that formula is what's really at the heart of the record, and in light of the promise shown by their debut, that lack of fervor and offthecuff adventurousness is a difficult shortcoming to ignore. "}