{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16250/homepage_large.3ca16276.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan ","artist":"Papercuts","title":"Fading Parade","text":"   Papercuts' Jason Quever rarely raises his voice. The Bay Area native's oneman project began as a folkier relative to friends and tourmates Grizzly Bear and Beach House, bands also making smeary, drifting pop music informed by psychedelic harmonies of the 1960s. But unlike Beach House's Victoria Legrand's vocal smoke or the highwire melodicism of both Grizzly Bear's Ed Droste and Daniel Rossen, Quever breathes more than he sings, as though he isn't sure whether he wants you to hear him at all. So when he abandoned more earthen tones for the reverbmarinated dream pop textures of 2009's You Can Have What You Want, we lost a huge part of him. By muddling his mixes and softening his vocals even further, he also made it difficult to know how to position our ears. Toward those longgone vocals already headed out the door? Or at the impossibly curvy melody that was bouncing on our doorstep? Fading Parade, his Sub Pop debut, finds both coming together in one place. It's his strongest outing to date. We can actually hear the difference right away. Though opener \"Do You Really Wanna Know\" chains together a marvelous set of guitar melodies, it doesn't really make its move until Quever slaps his chorus square in the cheek, forcing the whole to thing to jump to life in a way that’s much more immediate than his previous sets of songs. He does the exact same thing with equally impressive force in single \"Do What You Will\", a doeeyed, autoharped beauty with a whale of a hook. A small fraction of this record sounds to be free of reverb and delay, major portions of songs submerged for varying amounts of time. That's a lot of Spectorized, effectsdriven atmosphere But it's also an interesting manner of balancing things, as those moments when Quever has a layer of melody come up for air and back into focus particularly by way of his vocals are what really distinguish this album from earlier Papercuts records. This isn't music that breezes over you anymore. In a way, Papercuts' addition to the Sub Pop roster makes perfect sense. While that label will forever be linked with the wet, teethgnashing sounds of early grunge, it also experienced a renaissance in the decade just past by releasing extraordinarily gentle records, careerlaunching debuts from bands like the Shins and Iron & Wine. (Sub Pop snatched up former/fellow freakfolker and Gnomonsong label cofounder Andy Cabic's Vetiver project not long ago as well.) Quever's songwriting and presentation have been and can be similarly nonthreatening to a fault. While a song like \"White Are the Waves\" and the rest of this record's toovanilla middle third still express \"nostalgia\" or \"haze\" or the sort of semifamiliar ache that we as listeners associate with more amorphous and inscrutable songcraft, it's not easily revisited nor is it really capable of sticking. But Quever has extended his transition into dreamy territory really well. In fact, there's actually a sharp, almost comforting amount of sonic overlap with new labelmates Beach House here, particularly in the long braids of tremolopicked guitar that Quever weaves throughout. And lthough everything about their surfaces could be considered soft, all of these songs boast remarkably strong bone structure. The lattice of organ and Fender on \"I'll See You Later I Guess\" or delaytrapped droplets of \"Charades\" aren't just narcotic, they're crushing. It's the quiet ones you have to watch.     "}