{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16264/homepage_large.46604724.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Light Asylum","title":"In Tension EP","text":" Watching the video for \"Dark Allies\" one of four outstanding tracks on Brooklyn dark wave duo Light Asylum's debut EP, In Tension you get the feeling that, at any moment, vocalist Shannon Funchess and synth player Bruno Coviello are about to have it out with light sabers. Even aside from the fact that the two are already armed with neon tubes, \"Dark Allies\" alone conjures images of futuristic peril. Light Asylum make music clearly rooted in established styles synth pop, new wave, and postpunk but there's nothing about these four songs that feels nostalgic or pandering. Dramatic, magnetic, and grand in scope, Light Asylum sound like warriors sent from the future. That they've landed here just happens to be our good luck. Most talk of Light Asylum has been centered around Funchess, and that makes sense: she seems like a starinthemaking. Having long been a fixture of the Brooklyn music scene, as well as having leant her vocals to the like of Telepathe and TV on the Radio, Funchess sees poised to make some waves of her own. Light saber or no, she certainly cuts an intimidating, Grace Joneslike figure. But even a less stylish frontwoman could get by with Funchess' unique voice alone, which shakes with a coiled energy sometimes reminiscent of the late Ian Curtis. Her low register allows her to take on a fascinatingly aggressive persona and to sell the simple and evocative lyrics. When she talks about \"laying hands on you\" on \"Knights and Week Ends\", believe that she means it. Coviello's synth work and industrial beat programming is the perfect foundation for Funchess' outsized character. The drums sound formidably cold and heavy, surprising in the regard that he seems perfectly comfortable writing recognizable, catchy synth lines. \"Dark Allies\" features a twinkling arpeggio, laser sounds, and an unctuous lowend, but he never fails to reinforce the séancelike quality of the song. And he wields his musical references responsibly: \"Knights and Week Ends\" is a nifty update of Joy Division's \"Digital\", and \"Skull Fuct\" opens with the same iconic drum beat as New Order's \"Blue Monday\". Even though In Tension is a tense and tough kind of record at any moment, it feels as if an extra ounce of pressure could crack it in half one of the record's best moments is also the most melancholic. \"A Certain Person\" isn't quite the brand of Curegrade mope you might expect from the title; instead, it surges with a mechanized intensity that becomes almost elegiac. As Funchess' guard comes down, you're able to see all the bruises underneath. Maybe on a fulllength release we'll be able to peel back more of Light Asylum's layers, but In Tension isn't ready to reveal all their secrets at once. Consider this a warning shot. "}