{"label":" Partisan","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16259/homepage_large.0f0b640c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Warm Ghost","title":"Uncut Diamond EP","text":" Indie fans have been exposed to an awful lot of woozy, effectsladen synths over the past couple of years, almost always in the service of conjuring up some sort of hazy summer sunscape. In other words, chillwave, a tag that plays off of the late 1970s/early 80s French coldwave movement, albeit while trading that scene's bleak seriousness for druggy innocence and relaxed contentment. The gooey, outoffocus synths that herald \"Open the Wormhole in Your Heart\", the opening track on Warm Ghost's Uncut Diamond EP, briefly suggest we're entering the dreamily humid terrain occupied by the likes of Neon Indian and Washed Out. Quickly enough, however, singer Paul Duncan breaks the spell with his sternly romantic voice, and it's immediately clear there's more at stake here than Hipstamatictinted bliss. That's not to imply Warm Ghost are more worthwhile than most chillwavers, only that Duncan and his counterpart Oliver Chapoy are taking the world (and themselves) much more seriously. The deeprooted influence of dark synthpop, shoegaze, and gothrock will tend to do that for a group. Warm Ghost's debt to all manner of icy synth sculpters, slow squallers, and brooding crooners is certainly pronounced, yet Duncan and Chapoy do a good job of finding ways to not sound like mere sullen reenactors. For one thing, the artists they evoke are sufficiently diverse musically and vocally that Warm Ghost can touch on several similarly moody genres without sounding like an outandout tribute act to any one group (witness how the pro forma shoegaze feel of \"Resignation Rights\" gets undercut halfway through by Knifeish synths). An equally important factor is the duo's general smeary, indistinct aesthetic, which is possibly its most alluring strength. Typically it's clear vocal tics and demonstrative melodic lines that are most likely to make a group appear distractingly derivative, but Warm Ghost frequently skirt that problem  in blurrily lovely ways, like how Duncan, his words already fairly obfuscated, slips into ecstatic falsetto for the chorus of \"Open the Wormhole\". Or the way drums and synths have just as much prominence in the mix as the vocals on \"Without a Dancer\" and the title track, respectively. In essence, they're applying shoegaze principles even to songs that don't bear any other similarities to that genre. By contrast, the more straightforward pop moments here aren't failures, but they do tend to feel more overtly secondhand, particularly the Xiu Xiuish \"Claws Overhead\". \"Let My Angst Unfurl in the Water Like a Hound's Tongue\" (okay, maybe these guys aren't taking themselves too seriously) splits the difference quite well, delivering the structured payoff of pop while still maintaining a sense of disorientation and mystery. The same feat, it should be noted, that the best chillwave also performs. "}