{"label":" Fauxpas Musik","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16273/homepage_large.c436ae58.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Desolate","title":"The Invisible Insurrection","text":" Anyone bemoaning the transformation of dubstep from pirateradio lifeforce to fractal, occasionally commercially viable megagenre can take heart: The formalists are coming. Sven Weisemann probably isn't the genre's first formalist, but he definitely seems more concerned with dubstep's particular timbres and constructions than, say, melting your brain with totally bitchin' bass or, well, singing. The Invisible Insurrection, released under Weisemann's alias Desolate, is a studied and meditative take on a specific facet of the UK bass sound that has proved especially difficult to replicate. The party line on The Invisible Insurrection is that it's Burial 2011; this isn't wrong. \"Imagination\" opens the album and it isn't more than about 10 seconds before you hear one of those 20,000 Leaguestype sonar bleeps. Also on that first track: dusty film dialogue, dry, syncopated snares, and minorkey orchestral surges. Stop me if you've heard this one before: dubby basslines, pitcheddown vocal samples...right, I'll stop. Weisemann can pull this off because his productions are so clean. He cut his teeth on deep house tracks and has also worked as an avantgarde composer (still just in his midtwenties, Weisemann has been DJing since 1997). In each case, his music is crisp, uncluttered, and beautifully recorded. Insurrection is peppered with the sort of twinkling piano figures that dominated Weisemann's Xine, but he mostly removes himself from The Invisible Insurrection, preferring instead to obsess over details. Insurrection's sounds never cross or bleed into one another: the drums patter and softly splash, the divas wail in muffled sorrow, and the strings hover. It feels very organized. This sort of nuance allows Insurrection to pull of the difficult feat of being sonically buoyant while tonally dark. Rather than despair, Weisemann sinks his mind into cinema (see the floral strings and resonant kicks drums of \"Farewell #2\" or the melancholy piano drip of \"Follow Suit\") and craft. Burial's Untrue is a heavy album, one that sits with you, whose depths of emotion demand a certain heavylidded ruggedness that The Invisible Insurrection doesn't have or, quite frankly, need. This might create a paradox for anyone drawn to Burial specifically because he brings so much vulnerability to electronic music. The Invisible Insurrection doesn't offer this; it instead borrows Burial's signifiers and deploys them in skilled, noteperfect compositions. This lack of subtext is one of Insurrection's greatest strengths, offering the opportunity to revisit this music minus the weighty proposition of listening to a legendary artist. If an album of this stripe can be \"fun\" it's that it allows us to repurpose these sound: Insurrection doesn't have to be for love lost or spiritual crisis, it can be for riding the train on a rainy night. It's not a blank canvas but it is a potent, uniform gray. I'd feel bad about the singularity of this comparison but it's difficult to avoid and, moreover, Weisemann isn't some trendrider. He's a student of electronic music and a skilled craftsman. That dubstep is his latest project is a natural product of his interests (blurry deephouse, cinematic piano composition) and a reminder that while Burial's influence looms large, few producers have proven as articulate and patient with these particular sounds.  "}