{"label":" No. 19 Music","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16279/homepage_large.9ad3c172.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Soul Clap","title":"Social Experiment 002","text":" Soul Clap are a DJ/production duo from Boston, which is notable only because Boston would probably finish somewhere between third and fifth in a straw poll of \"least technoy cities in America.\" Nonetheless, Cnyce and Elyte have been stirring there for several years now, releasing a handful of singles and edits as well as venturing out on a few tours. Social Experiment 002, both the first commercially available mix the duo has produced and the first mix on Art Department's Jonny White's No. 19 Music label, should kickstart a busy year for Soul Clap. (Social Experiment will be proceeded quickly by a DJ Kicks mix Soul Clap created with New York upandcomers Wolf + Lamb.) While Soul Clap are arguably the most visible electronic artists from Boston in some time, one thing they are not is a harbinger of a new or exciting style or scene; their success as DJs (and producers/remixers) is predicated on an elegant, elastic mix of house and techno. Soul Clap are also not classicists: Social Experiment mostly features tracks from young East Coast and European producers. They're kin to DJs like Seth Troxler and Wolf + Lamb in their sly funkiness and preference for making folks dance over making a statement. Social Experiement is not an exercise in momentum, studied repetition, or steadily building toward a climax. They favor quickstriking, vocally oriented tracks over tension and release. Nothing here qualifies as an anthem: even the most melodic tracks tend to be selfcontained, or seem so in this context. To borrow a sports term, Soul Clap \"play within themselves,\" never reaching for catharsis or exultation. The mix picks up quickly the brief cuts that dominate the early minutes are smart and stays tense and alive throughout. That might make Social Experiment sound easy or even pandering, but Soul Clap avoid those trappings. There's plenty of challenging, offkilter music here. It's just that Soul Clap are particularly adept at spinning it into warmhearted, brighteyed jams. SECT's \"H.T.A.D.\" is a lurching acidbass track but any lingering salty aftertaste is exploded by Michael J Collins' whooshing, Kraut  y \"Schizotypal\" (and then extending the bliss with Night Plane's \"Parallel Lines\"). They swing the reverse trick too, leading Benoit & Sergio's silky pophouse track, \"Principles\", blindfolded into Tanner Ross' \"4 U\", a choppy, psychedelic churn. Clashes like these provide the tiny combustions that keep Social Experiment rolling. Social Experiment is a mix without an obvious agenda. It sounds like it wants to make me dance, but it's not pushy. It's not a label showcase or a genre exercise; the only two summary descriptions I can really pin on it are \"fresh\" (most artists here are relatively new to the scene) and \"North American\" (for its creators and their choices: Art Department, Benoit & Sergio, Jimmy Edgar, Lee Foss, Seth Troxler, and Nightplane, among others, hail from this side of the Atlantic). All of this makes Social Experiment 002 unlikely to represent anything more specific than \"Hey, Soul Clap: pretty good!\" a year from now, but asking for anything more from a mix so contented and hardworking seems in poor taste. "}