{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16276/homepage_large.cf211e64.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"SMM: Context","text":" Founded by Sam Valenti IV in 1999, Ghostly International has been an important shaper of the last decade's trends in nondance electronic music. Based in Ann Arbor, roughly 35 miles west of the techno holy land (i.e., Detroit), Ghostly has cultivated a brand of techno and instrumental hiphop blended with the sort of IDM, ambient, and synthpop hybrids coming contemporaneously out of Kompakt, Warp, and Morr Music. \"Hands Up for Detroit\" was both Matthew Dear's and the label's debut single, and it went on to sign notable artists such as Dabrye and Gold Panda. It's an aesthetic defined less by genre than by lush, synthetic exteriors and an insistence on the endless compatibility of different electronic and pop styles. The label's Idol Tryouts compilations were digests of this nebulous field. SMM: Context hops the fence into ambientderived music, and serves a similar purpose one mercurial niche, at a glance. This is not uncharted territory for Ghostly: The second disc of Idol Tryouts 2 featured ethereal electronic music by the likes of Greg Davis and Tim Hecker, and the label has released 12\" comps of similar fare under the SMM banner since 2003. But this stripe of postambient stuff has taken on such distinct characteristics in recent years that it feels like an emergent genre in search of a name. Ghostly refuses to say what the acronym stands for (\"slowmotion music\" seems a reasonable guess), but they offer an accurate characterization of it: \"SMM….evaporate[s] the already unspooling musical boundaries between classical minimalism, electronic and drone composition, film soundtracks, and fragile imaginary landscapes.\" The only important touchstone missing from this catalogue is French Impressionism: This is highly piano  centric music, and the specters of Satie, Debussy, and Ravel preside alongside the American minimalists over electronic glimmers and hums. It's almost uniformly dedicated to inscribing gradual melodies onto glossy, ruffling surfaces. It represents a generation of artists who are closing whatever gap remains between the minimal ends of electronic and classical music, which have always explored overlapping territory with different tools and perspectives. It evenly splits the differences between Brian Eno and Philip Glass, Phill Niblock and Morton Feldman. The field is dominated by the labels Type and Miasmah, which have a healthy selection of artists included here: Peter Broderick, Svarte Greiner, Goldmund, Rafael Anton Irisarri, and Jacaszek. Pensive, lyrical fragments of piano are everywhere, from Goldmund's \"Motion\" and Jacaszek's \"Elegia\" to Christina Vantzou's \"11 Generations of my Fathers\": all lovely tracks, though Vantzou in particular should almost owe Philip Glass royalties. It gets tiresome mentioning Glass so often, but he really is the undisputed titan in this realm the ambient/classical pacesetter Eluvium, for instance, based his song \"Prelude for Time Feelers\" around a few notes from \"Mad Rush\", which you can hear clearly around the 2:10 mark in this video. The gaseous, freefloating drones of Manual's \"Three Parts\" credibly recast Morton Feldman as an electronic artist. While Kyle Bobby Dunn is the purest electronic droner here, there is also something Feldmanesque about his \"Runge’s Last Stand\", where he builds massive chords with his usual severe beauty, the top notes straining ever higher. This isn’t to say the rest of the matrix of influence doesn't matter: Svarte Greiner's \"Halves\" is a dark gust of Angelo Badalamentiinspired menace, and Leyland Kirby's \"Polaroid\" summons up the molten flow of classic Eno/Fripp collaborations. The upshot is that these disparate points can now be regarded as the same kind of music, blending together with indie's characteristic disregard for academic boundaries. And in retrospect, it seems inevitable that the elegant simplicity of classical minimalism would spawn a vital indie counterpart in way that premodernist classical, with its high barrier of entry, could not. SMM: Context also features Rafael Anton Irisarri, a perfect example of this new kind of composer, who exists in an undifferentiated welter of pop, techno, and classical. He's released Gasinspired ambient house for Ghostly as The Sight Below, while his pianobased Reverie EP included a cover of \"Für Alina\" by the great Estonian composer of minimal sacred music, Arvo Pärt. Irisarri embodies the hybrid genre that we may, if Ghostly's parlance catches on, wind up calling \"SMM\" as it continues to take on definition and there's the rub. A compilation dedicated to \"unspooling musical boundaries\" works at crosspurposes, as it can't help but create a new mold in the process. Nevertheless, this is an accurate and often gorgeous snapshot of a loose affiliation of ideas coalescing into a genre. "}