{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16295/homepage_large.4c7f29bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"The Builders and the Butchers","title":"Dead Reckoning","text":" Babies burn, oceans overflow, family trees don't fork; Dead Reckoning, the third LP from Portland's the Builders and the Butchers, plays out a little like Cormac McCarthy Unplugged, a ramshackle 19th century endtimes sermon gone folkrock. \"The whole world's rotten to the core,\" singer Ryan Sollee reminds us with a howl on the album's most cathartic chorus. We may already be this screwed, the Builders and the Butchers seem to be suggesting throughout Dead Reckoning. High time we started shouting about it. The rivers and trains and oncefashionable women's names peppering their lyrics and the oldtimey garb they don for press photos further lend the Builders' doomsaying an outoftime quality. Often, their bloodspattered, Revelations feel matched with Sollee's nasal voice and all the rollicking arrangements bears an uncanny resemblance of their fellow Portlandic histrionical society, the Decemberists. Like The King Is Dead and R.E.M., it's a comparison the Butchers surely could've predicted; hell, the Decemberists' Chris Funk sat behind the boards on their last album. Sollee's voice is a close cousin to Meloy's, less nuanced perhaps but wilder in the big moments. And the band's halfdelicate, halfdriving acoustic pileup's got plenty in common with their citymates' earlier, less fussy records. It'd be awfully easy to dismiss the Butchers as mere Decemberistalikes, but there's a jittery, paranoiac quality to their music and Sollee's shouts in particular that lends it a very different intensity than even those earlier, more murderous Decemberists LPs. It's almost as though, while Colin Meloy was down in Missoula studying literature, Sollee and company were somewhere deep in the woods, working out the bylaws of their own sovereign nation.All that might sound a bit bleak, but it's actually fairly raucous, helped along by the Butchers' fondness for big shoutalong choruses and the sweaty liveinaroom feel of their arrangements. Using two drummers to play a single kit, there's a wild clatter in the uptempo numbers well suited to Sollee's breathless proselytizing. \"We All Know the Way\" imagines devotionaslockstep; an ironic place for a singalong, yet there it is. There's plenty of unusually rollicking moments like that all over Dead Reckoning, plenty of morbid lines that feel almost celebratory in their hands. Recorded quickly, with minimal overdubs, Dead Reckoning has an urgency and a sense of fromtheether evil even in its slower moments; stark, swirling highlight \"Out of the Mountain\" finds Sollee moaning quite matteroffactly about setting fire to the earth and \"keeping the rain\"; this isn't just any old pyro talking, and Sollee's grim lyrical visions are left to linger in this sparse setting.Sometimes the fervor gets to be too much for them: the grating but mercifully brief \"Blood for You\" is little more than the junkyard clang of the rhythm section and Sollee's stuckpig shout, and the verses \"Cradle on Fire\" seem to get away from Sollee, who loses the melody somewhere in the back of his throat. But there's few moments when they don't seem to be throwing everything they've got into these performances, and that furious intensity drives them past both rough patches and easy comparisons. A couple of these melodies seem to run together after a couple listens, and at times the music could stand to be a bit more gnarled to match some of Sollee's more sinister sentiments. But even as they scream down the sky, the Builders and the Butchers seem to be having a blast, and it's catching. Should the end of days finds you with a bottle of whiskey and Dead Reckoning, pray you've got a way to play the thing. "}