{"label":" Island / Mercury","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16294/homepage_large.933e8802.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"Noah and the Whale","title":"Last Night on Earth","text":" Full disclosure: I am actually a sucker for the whistling, ukestrumming, handjiving, oversaturated super8 montage, matchingoutfits twee of Noah and the Whale's breakout single \"5 Years Time\". Which I guess makes me part of the reason this crap winds up in car commercials. Sorry. But that song was animated by exactly how close it crept up to the line of preciousness without tumbling into fullon Pomplamoose territory, and even if it was only a trifle, nothing else on their first two albums came close to its sugary stickiness. In fact, Noah and the Whale's sophomore album, The First Days of Spring, deliberately turned away from that sort of thing, opting instead for a glummer, stripped, and sloweddown acoustic sound. If both these albums relied on a certain handcrafted feel to derive their small charms, new album Last Night on Earth projects flaws and all onto slicker, seemingly biggerbudget productions. Baumbach and the Squid here are selfproclaimed cinephiles, so let's put it this way: If \"5 Years Time\" was their \"Around the World\" clip (cute, catchy, featuring synchronized dancing) and The First Days of Spring was their Science of Sleep (maudlin, sluggish), then the new album is their Green Hornet in 3D although that would all assume they had Michel Gondry's appeal in the first place. The change is immediately apparent on opener \"Life Is Life\"; the song begins with a lapping synth arpeggio and drum machine sputters before building up to big buzzing synth chords, echoing grand piano, and why the hell not? a gospel choir. Everything that follows is equally blown up, and the arrangements are frequently lovely, but the songwriting at the center of it all doesn't exactly merit such widescreen treatment. Over obvious changes and neatly resolving chord progressions, bandleader Charlie Fink sings stock rockisms and bland platitudes: \"Tonight's the kind of night where everything could change\"; \"baby, she's a wild thing\"; \"you got heart, and you're going your own way.\" Fink's singing is fine, but he's abandoned the folksy British accent audible on the band's early albums to settle into a kind of vast, unremarkable singersongwriter flyover country. At its best, and on lead single \"L.I.F.E.G.O.E.S.O.N.\", Fink aims for a kind of Tom Petty storysong vibe, with broadly painted characters (\"she's a rock and roll survivor with pendulum hips\") and a classic Americana sense of the possibility in the great wide open, even one littered with cautionary tales. The first half of the album is written almost entirely in third person narratives, and it begins to give the album the feel of a world looked at not through its protagonist's eyes but through a camera's lens. This trick holds up enough so that when the album shifts to first person on the flipside, it feels like Fink is inhabiting roles rather than just spilling his own guts. Even at their best, though, Noah and the Whale struggle to overcome a tryingtoohard odor that permeates everything they do right down to that illadvised band name. Here, they've lost both the rinkydink whimsy of their debut (save for a little xylophone melody on \"Give It All Back\") and the subdued strength of its followup, splitting the difference to arrive at an album that's as artfully inflated as it is vacuous and forgettable. Believe it or not, it may actually make you yearn for the simpler times of \"fun fun fun\" in the \"sun sun sun.\" "}