{"label":" No Quarter","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16291/homepage_large.5c83ef2f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"The Psychic Paramount","title":"II","text":" It's been almost six years since the Psychic Paramount's last album, Gamelan Into the Mink Supernatural. Normally a hiatus that long indicates a need to reform, retool, or in some way restart. But apparently this New York trio just gestated, growing their music into something wider, thicker, and harder to define. In huge jams that soar, crash, and smolder often at the same time the band pumps extra blood and muscle into their sound, as if stretching a balloon into a blimp. If you're familiar with Gamelan, you might wonder how the Psychic Paramount could make their sound any bigger; their crunchy noise and rumbling rhythms already filled speakers. On the surface, II is actually pretty close to Gamelan, at least in volume. But the way it plays out is more widescreen, more 3D. The songs encompass more moods and tempos, more shifts and builds, more ideas and moves. And the rippling guitars, cloudy bass, and exploding drums create sonic lava that coats the stereo space. Given that scope, it makes sense that the Psychic Paramount have been called postrock. (The same tag was laid on the band that guitarist Drew St. Ivany and bassist Ben Armstrong previously inhabited, Laddio Bolocko.) After all, they're instrumental and they like to build to crescendos. But where most postrock bands rely on quiet/loud shifts to create dynamics, these three manage to ebb and flow while sticking to a maxedenergy attack. So while they may ascend at one point and descend at another, they never sound like they're retreating. Which puts II closer to the relentless psychnoise of Japanese bands like Fushitsusha and Marble Sheep than the cinedrama of Godspeed You! Black Emperor or Mogwai. It also has the bluesy immolation of Comets on Fire and the hammering weight of Lightning Bolt, but the impressive thing about II compared to all of these groups even compared to Gamelan is how controlled and confident it sounds. It's as if they decided to make fire by patiently rubbing sticks rather than violently striking a match. And just as Glenn Branca forged an Ascension by pounding at one chord, the Psychic Paramount find fuel by drilling to the bottom of single riffs. They can get complex, too songs like the chopping \"RW\" and jazzy closer \"N5 Coda\" share a math rock vibe with Don Caballero and Oxes. But they're rarely just connecting dots. They're more interested in following intuition than patterns, and II is way more physical than mental. Its density, pace, and exuberance are, for anyone that likes to get lost in sound, basically a sonic amusement park. Still, even if you can close your eyes on this roller coaster, you can't turn off your brain. In fact, the way the Psychic Paramount infiltrate your ears, they're more likely to switch that particular organ into overdrive. "}