{"label":" Duckdown","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16293/homepage_large.a0da3865.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Pharoahe Monch","title":"W.A.R.","text":" The book isn't closed yet on Pharoahe Monch, but it's safe to say that history's going to be kind to him, and deservedly so. In the 20 years since the first Organized Konfusion album he's fathered numerous styles; without the precedent of his sharp, needling, Ornette Colemansolo flow and the triplereinforced polysyllabic depth it delivered, there's arguably no Mos Def, probably no Eminem, and definitely no army of complicated indierap spitters elbowing each other in a crowded postScribble Jam strata. And despite the huge hitch in his career arc eight years between his 1999 solo debut Internal Affairs and his excellent 2007 comeback Desire he always seemed like each dispatch from the studio could erase the aftereffects of his protracted absence. But name me one MC, no matter how great, who hasn't slipped at least a little a full two decades after his debut either through wasted potential, desperate compromise, or just a disinterest in moving with the times. The latter method does have the benefit of being backed by a certain amount of personal integrity, and if the worstcase result involves preaching to a choir, at least it's an honest kind of letdown. W.A.R. (We Are Renegades) isn't the kind of disappointment that's liable to piss off hardcore fans. Even if Monch has moments where he sounds less like a battlescarred vet and more like your cranky dad \"young children, pull your pants on up/ Who wants to see the crack of your ass and see your butt,\" he harangues on \"Let My People Go\" at least he works with material that fits the continuum of his consciousminded career. Of course a pushing40 golden age icon is going to spit about the familiar subjects of record industry disillusionment, conspiracy politics, and the tragedy of street violence. Why shouldn't he or anybody? The only catch is that this is the same golden age icon that previously did so on tracks like \"Free\", \"Releasing Hypnotical Gases\", and \"Stray Bullet\", which is about as close to unfuckwithable as an antecedent can get. More than anything else, precedent is what stifles W.A.R. And in comparison to the tracks that made him who he is, here Monch sometimes sounds more like the semiinspired 2ndgen backpacker disciples he anticipated than the firedup elder statesman who was still close to peak as recently as three years ago. There's still bursts of pressrewind brilliance \"Haile Selassie Karate\" is a condensed dose of highdensity abstraction, and his verse on \"Assassins\", the second of three cofeaturing the equally topoftheirgame Jean Grae and Royce da 5'9\", is Monch in classic tonguetwister form. You don't have to go back to Desire to find a performance to unfavorably compare some of W.A.R.'s low points to there's more than a few flashes of sharpness here already. But there's also bars that lean on more workaday lyrics, some of which are relatable and lowkey (the matteroffact hoodstruggle scenario \"Black Hand Side\") but often replace his lookthatup depth with heygetit metaphorical handholding. And hearing him drop a throwaway Laffy Taffywrapper punchline like \"I make headlines like corduroy pillows\" on the otherwise gripping \"The Hitman\" is damn near cringeworthy. The bulk of his lyrics aren't deliberately dumbed down or diluted to appeal to an audience that was never willing to get him, but sometimes they lack the weight that first hooked the audience that always has been. That leaves his delivery to pick up the slack, and at least there he's still game the agile rhythmic snap of nunchuks whizzing past your head, all staccato internals and punchy alliteration. There's one point in the pulpitdelivery \"Let My People Go\" where he gets so into the singsong preacher meter that he séances up hints of mid90s CeeLo in his voice, and while it's one of the few moments where he gets flatout transformative, his sense of interplay with the beat on the rest of the album is still enough to keep you listening even without his lyrics at their highest caliber. Seeing as how anonymous most of the production is, it's good to hear vocals that can carry the backing tracks; when the biggest sonic imprint on your album would otherwise be some Vernon Reid riffage, a few serviceable beats from MPhazes and an overambitious In the Court of the Crimson Kinginterpolating collaboration with Citizen Cope, an MC as musically integral as Monch is absolutely necessary. If you value the merits of a singular flow, then what Monch does on this album can redeem nearly anything. Or at least make something likable out of an album that could've been just mediocre. "}