{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16308/homepage_large.75811339.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pakistan Folk and Pop Instrumentals 1966-1976","text":" In Pakistan, much as in neighboring India, the film industry dominates popular music. From the 1920s onward, Lollywood the affectionate term for the Lahorebased studio system has been the source of the huge majority of hit songs in the country, even as the industry has suffered one cruel setback after another, from wars to coups to changing censorship laws. One side effect of film music's grip on the subcontinent's pop consciousness has been that India and Pakistan jointly represent one of the biggest holes in the global late1960s/early70s beat music story there just aren't many recordings of rock music from the era from either country. But the music existed. Much of it has been effectively lost simply because the record companies that operated in South Asia weren't interested and the bands didn't get to record. In urban Pakistan, the late 60s looked in many ways similar to the late 60s in Western Europe or the U.S. longhaired, politicized university kids making music with whatever was available to them. Bands covered Western hits, and some almost certainly wrote their own material, but when it came time to go into the studio a privilege few ever received their options were limited. Most cut little more than a single or an EP, and instrumental versions of old folk songs and Urdu film tunes were about all they were allowed to record. Thankfully, what was put to tape is pretty distinctive. If the 22 songs gathered on Sublime Frequencies' Pakistan Folk and Pop Instrumentals don't illuminate anything that could be considered a real scene, they do at least share a sort of charming weirdness, highlighted by a mix of local percussion, surfy guitars, and blaring, cheap organ, with the occasional sitar or accordion. The set's compiler, Stuart Ellis, has an ear for nonWestern beat music he also compiled SF's Bollywood Steel Guitar set and runs Radiodiffusion International, a site that for the past few years has posted one exceptional, forgotten beat gem from far off the beaten track, sharing songs from Brunei, Sri Lanka, Iraq, Iran, Bangladesh, Somalia, and dozens of other countries. It's worth checking out the Annex's long archive. What he's put together here actually represents the lion's share of recorded nonfilm Pakistani beat music, at least that anyone's been able to dig up. The Panthers, the Mods, the Aay Jayes, the Abstracts, the Blue Birds, and the Fore Thoughts are the featured bands, with a few nonsoundtrack songs from film composers Sohail Rana and Nisar Bazmi included to round things out. Predictably, it's the Bazmi and Rana songs that sound the most like the intentional collision of styles that lay at the heart of South Asian film music during the era. Rana's \"The Khyber Twist\" even comes from an album pointedly named Folk Tunes of Pakistan on the Latin American Beat, though that particular song is much more in the surf style of American groups like the Challengers and the Chantays. The best of the bands included was probably the Panthers Ellis is making a point when he opens the set with their \"Malkaus\", which opens with a bit of ghazalish singing before someone yells, in English, \"take over, Panthers!\" and the song comes in with a startling rush of Beatlesque guitar. It's a manifesto for a musical revolution that never materialized. The other bands give it their best shot, though. I love the twanging and chiming guitar tones they worked with, but I'll admit that the extremely trebleheavy organ sounds favored by most of these bands might sit a little hard on some listeners' ears. The mix of Western instrumentation and Pakistani rhythms results in quite a few great songs the Fore Thoughts' \"Shahbaz Qalander\" is an especially effective and subtle melding of East and West. Hearing this music takes on a slightly different shade of meaning when you consider what happened in Pakistan during the time covered by the compilation. It picks up just after the inconclusive 1965 war with India over Kashmir, and encompasses a time of immense change and challenge for Pakistan. The military junta that had ruled the country since 1958 came to an end in 1972, less than a year after a disastrous war that led to the independence of Bangladesh from Pakistan and a humiliating defeat at the hands of India. The civilian rule of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was a period of relative liberalization, and this is the period most of these songs actually come from many are from 1976, which is not an accidental closing date. Bhutto was overthrown in 1977, and the subsequent regime of General Muhammed ZiaulHaq pursued an aggressive policy of Islamization, which included the imposition of curfews and the banning of alcohol. The death of Pakistani nightlife led most of the musicians heard on this compilation to move abroad. So Pakistan Folk and Pop Instrumentals captures an extended moment in Pakistani music and history. It's a moment in which a segment of the country's educated youth was fleetingly swept up in the great tidal currents that helped make beat music one of the first globespanning cultural phenomena. It's a moment that will never be duplicated, and that's part of what makes it so fascinating today. We can lament that there wasn't more documentation, but what we do have is interesting, unique, and just plain fun to listen to. "}