{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16312/homepage_large.d9693669.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Wolf + Lamb vs. Soul Clap","title":"DJ-Kicks","text":" Wolf + Lamb and Soul Clap, two likeminded DJ teams from Brooklyn and Boston, respectively, are kind of having a moment right now. Their style of hiphop and R&Bflecked house has developed over years of collaboration, grown publicly via a wellreceived ongoing party at Brooklyn's Marcy Hotel, and just recently begun to build some traction in other dance circles domestically and abroad. So this set, part of !K7's longrunning and wellcurated DJKicks series and following two similar Soul Clap mixes for Resident Advisor and new label No. 19, arrives right when folks are wondering about their sound.The four DJs behind this mix (Wolf + Lamb's Gadi Mizrahi and Zev Eisenberg, Soul Clap's Cnyce and Elyte) recognize the opportunity and offer here a pretty definitive look at their style. On a basic level, these guys make slowburning, steamy house music but round it out with elements from hiphop, R&B, and vintage pop breakbeats, ravey vocal snatches, and funk samples split time with warm, undulating synth and bass. What's interesting, though, is that for the very outward attributes of the music they pull from, these DJs are primarily about subtlety. Rather than climatic builds, they focus on patient groove and vibe, working you over slowly and deliberately.Originally envisioned as a battle mix of sorts (literally the two acts \"versus\" one another), this DJKicks set is instead a collaborative affair, mixing original tracks from both crews and remixed material by pals like Nicolas Jaar, Greg Paulus, and Benoit & Sergio. It's a wellcrafted, cohesive mix that features some great material and a few superfluous cuts. (At 27 tracks, there's a whiff of overkill.) Generally, they impressively blend genres, like on Soul Clap's \"3 Wheel EMotion\"  , which is almost ambient gfunk, or the astral, bubbly R&B of Double Hill's \"Everytime I Go\". There's this great mix of old and new on these tracks, an unlikely fusion of dusty urban sounds and lush synth trickery.These DJs also go to great lengths to keep the mix varied and interesting, always playing with tone and incorporating surprise bits like Jaar's experimental techno or the skittery dub of Paulus' \"Suchashame\". Even with these detours, the record could still feel backgroundy to some simply because it's so understated by nature. That's just a taste issue, though some will appreciate this more muted style, some won't. But if the idea of letting some balmy, makeout house ingratiate itself over time is appealing? In that case there's tons to enjoy here. And even if this sound remains a regional thing, the mix at the very least shows these dudes are onto to something unique and maybe even quite special. "}