{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16307/homepage_large.df3c2900.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Vocabulary","title":"Faded Days","text":" The title of Faded Days implies the kind of misremembered nostalgia prevalent in a lot of modest, underground strains of recent indie music. It's a title that evokes images of dusty shoeboxes in the attic, overflowing with weatherbeaten photos from broken 35mm cameras. As artists embrace obsolete technology as tools for creation, Faded Days at first glance seems to be heading down that path: a celebration of the past, a lament for when times were simpler. \"I've seen better days,\" sings Cameron Allen in a dejected tenor on album opener \"Oskar\", minutes before wistfully urging the grass in his lawn to grow; what starts out as a young man peeking over his shoulder at the days gone by ends with him pleading for the sands of time to hurry along. It quickly becomes clear that Faded Days written and recorded by Allen in what sounds like a bedroom setting is actually a collection of songs meant to put more distance between its creator and his past, a final look into the haze of yesteryear. On the very next song, Allen pledges to \"change myself, rearrange shelves,\" turning the humdrum chore of reconfiguring his living space into a significant act of revision. The main theme of Faded Days turns out to be how the past eventually blanches and evaporates under the dark, looming shadow of the horizon. The lyrics that aren't concerned with the past are cautiously optimistic for what the future holds. Musically, Allen uses his effectsladen dronepop to render his past even blurrier. At times, his propensity for loopbased, floating stateliness is eerily reminiscent of fellow Georgian Bradford Cox, making instrumentals like \"Collision\" and bouncy, ambientleaning garagerock tracks \"Nowhere (Beth)\" and the aforementioned \"Rearrange Shelves\" sound like skeletal Atlas Sound demos. At times the similarities between the two projects veer toward suspicion, like the vocal melodies on \"Children\" or the chord changes on \"Oskar\". Many of the tracks bear interesting production flourishes that provide depth to the minimalism of the songs (Faded Days is thoroughly a \"headphones album\"), showing that Allen has an incredibly adroit ear for production. But that unfortunately doesn't save \"Spider Crawls\" or \"Children\" from plodding along and sounding a little too sparse. The album loses momentum toward the end, with Allen dragging his pedals through psychedelic soundscapes and dragging the album right behind him. On album highlight \"Window Seal\", Allen siphons his instruments into a gorgeous, dreamlike state, its glacial measure augmented by a simple piano progression, celestial, chiming guitar, and distorted synthesizer. An egg shaker keeps time as Allen draws anguished melancholy from his sleepy, boyish vocals that unconvincingly project a very specific kind of emotional distance the kind that comes from someone so broken that he's too numb to control the tone of his voice. Ultimately, Faded Days is the product of a young songwriter and sound architect that proves he holds a wellspring almost an entire world of ideas, but isn't quite sure how to fully flesh them out yet. Cameron Allen has very good reason to look straight ahead to the future, because Faded Days sends him off on the right path. "}