{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16302/homepage_large.c6196969.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Adventure","title":"Lesser Known","text":" The music made during New Order's fantastic streak in the 1980s often carried a tragic, crestfallen tone understandable results for a band that emerged from Joy Division's stillfresh remains. But that large period of the band's work contains a euphoric feeling of escapism as well; it's still too easy, after all, to put on a song like \"Bizarre Love Triangle\" or \"This Time of Night\" and lose yourself to a place of limitless bliss. It's that electronic escapism that flushes the cheeks of Baltimorebased electronic musician Benny Boeldt's sophomore effort as Adventure, Lesser Known. From the syncopated pulse of aptly named opener \"Open Door\", it's impossible not to draw comparisons to Sumner and co., as well as the best of the best 80s British synthpop acts. Unlike the frequent blockiness of new wave, though, Lesser Known sounds expansive and maximalistic in design, as squelching synth runs fill up every last bit of possible space on the record's front half. Certainly, Benny knows how to do the maximalist thing pretty well; his background in Baltimore's Wham City art scene, as well as Adventure's chiptuneswarmed selftitled debut, fortifies a reputation for Loud and Big sounds. It's his first record's 8bit confrontational, intermittently aggravating construction, then, that reveals its head on the album's back end, in the form of aggressively sinister synthpadded dance music. There's moments of heavylidded bliss in the dark oscillations of \"Another World\", but the spinningclass insistence of \"Lights Out\", as well as the sine wave noise terrorism of \"Meadows\", achieve annoyance rather than transcendence. It suggests that Boeldt hasn't yet fully exorcised the ghost of Wham City's calling card alleverything assault just yet, as the somewhat unintentionally goofy clip for a remix of \"Relax the Mind\" further suggests. Despite those hurdles, Lesser Known feels like a riskily successful work of growth from Boeldt, and it rightly should: this LP marks his first time trying his hand at singing. He's not exactly a professional or anything, but he goes for it anyway with often great success, brightly emoting with an open stride on \"Smoke and Mirrors\" and getting rubbery, like a pop version of R&B abstractionist Autre Ne Veut, on \"Fool's Paradise\". Lesser Known, then, is about selfexploration in unexplored territory, and how to lose yourself in that void. Boeldt's escaped, and it sounds like he's all the better for it. "}