{"label":" Addenda / Submarine","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16314/homepage_large.9c49e8a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"The Eternals","title":"Approaching the Energy Field","text":" In some ways, the Eternals are a band operating in the wrong era. Their multigenre stew full of funk, dub, jazz, hiphop, and postpunk always takes me back to the late 1990s. That was a time when many cuttingedge bands were so obsessed with rhythms from outside rock's mainstream, their classic forms and brandnew mutations, that it was hard to even sell them in some quarters as \"rock.\" At the time, this rhythmiccentric synthesis seemed to some of us like the genre's future, but the moment, unfortunately, passed quickly. Few current indie bands are paying tribute to Sun Ra or King Tubby, blending various strains of AfroCaribbean rhythm culture and cutting the mix with rock's bite. Of course, the Eternals aren't some postrock analog to the current wave of lofi 90s nostalgia. They come directly out of the tradition, and over the course of four albums released in the last decade, they've kept its stylistically promiscuous vibe alive. But in any era, even one crowded with likeminded bands, they would be unique. Mostly that's down to vocalist Damon Locks and his wild changeups. Many of those late90s bands peddled instrumentals. The rest had singers who (being way charitable here) seriously lacked for charisma. That's not a charge you could ever seriously aim at Locks, whose fearless vocal acrobatics, sometimes straining against his skill set, are what set him apart from most indie singers, then or now. Punk sneer, cosmic PFunk rapping, cracked crooning, wizened reggae mysticism: Locks rarely sings the same way twice on Approaching the Energy Field. His dubstyle chatting and \"mystic space voice\" chanting have more hairraising conviction than his more conventional (and technically justokay) singing, just as the Eternals' music gets better the more it strays from homages to familiar genres and into weird combinations. But as on the previous albums, its Locks' abundance of personality and weird way with a hook that elevates the Eternals beyond an experiment in making new rhythms out of old, a band with both a deep love of postfunk history and the chops to scramble that history into new shapes. Still, musically, this is the most varied and accomplished Eternals set yet. Approaching the Energy Field covers a wider range of sounds than even their first three albums, which were already pretty diverse: The jagged beats of AntiPop style ultraunderground hiphop; the jumpy syncopations of UK bass music like broken beat and dubstep; spacedout George Clinton synthesizer epics; lowkey Latin jazz. It's clear the band knows and loves these sounds; you get the feeling they could ape any of them convincingly if they wished. But they're also too restless to play things straight, to simply pay homage to their influences and obsessions. Aside from their commitment to rhythm, that desire to bend the rules and mix things up is still the Eternals' greatest asset. It's why the album's best moments are those which can be pegged to no particular genre, even when the beats drop away, like on \"I Let the Telephone Ring\", which evokes Spaghetti western soundtracks, Stravinskyish orchestral music, and the fragile dreampop ballads of A.R. Kane. The Eternals may be out their own in their own in the once again guitarcentric world of indie rock circa 2011, but that just means we're doubly lucky they're still listening so widely, still pushing themselves to come up with such unexpected new hybrids. "}