{"label":" DFA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16335/homepage_large.17693e06.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Holy Ghost!","title":"Holy Ghost!","text":" As much as the standard model has shifted from the fulllength album to the individual track, there's still a lot of baggage to the phrase \"singles band.\" A group with a couple of great songs and a few unremarkable ones might've gotten more of a pass for hiding the mediocrities on Bsides back when \"sides\" were the only game in town, but the nature of an album still has a certain weight to the idea of consistent fronttoback listening that doesn't forgive hitches so easily. Still, even though Holy Ghost! have followed up a string of singles and an EP (2010's Static on the Wire) with an album where the big stumbling blocks are redundancy and an overextension of a few good ideas, it's surprisingly easy to toss those concerns aside and just go for the choice stuff piecemealstyle. Holy Ghost! do have a good amount of choice stuff, actually, at least if you've warmed to the idea of a band that does for 1980s electropop and some of the era's more forwardthinking AOR what the Juan MacLean did for deep house. But it depends on how much you take in at once. That's another paradox of a singles band put a bit of chronological distance between a few soundalike tracks, and the watertreading doesn't seem so bad. On an album, it's easy to notice that, say, the lyrical conceit of \"Hold On\"'s hook is recycled for the bridge on \"Say My Name\" (\"Hold on, hold on, hold on/ Even though you know you shouldn't\"). But with a few years separating those tracks' original releases, the original impressions hinged more on a stylistic progression from the former's chirpy yet suave electropop to the latter's frosty, anxious, and immaculately mannered minimal new wave. That's why it's a bit harder to parse the tracks that make their debut on the album. A few of these stand out immediately. There's \"Jam for Jerry\", a subtly guiltstricken yet touching tribute to drummer Jerry Fuchs, and \"Some Children\", which not only drops a youth chorus on your head but throws in an honesttogod Michael McDonald appearance on the chorus to boot. Both sound like textbook Factoryreplica synthpop with faint underpinnings of Fourth and Broadwayeclectic dance music and R&B. Think Chromeo with a straighter face. But these songs have enough staying power in their catchiness to feel distinct so long as you keep them isolated from each other. And the songs on Holy Ghost! you might've heard already still hold up, whether after 3 1/2 years (the aforementioned \"Hold On\") or just under one, like the yearning electrofunk of Static on the Wire's title track, reintroduced here. Other tracks aren't so lucky when strung in succession, and the familiar, unchallenging pleasures of each individual song the semiindustrial churn of \"Do It Again\", the pianoflecked Jellybean Benitez poplock of \"Wait and See\", the aloof disco of \"Slow Motion\" are quickly canceled out by the next, losing detail and impact in the cumulative procession. That'll come with time, and there's plenty of momentum to grasp hold of when the music's actually playing. But the \"I need to hear this again right away\" jolt might not grab on for good. While Holy Ghost! don't have the compositional knack of Hot Chip or Cut Copy, Alex Frankel's cool, reserved, yet subtly emotional vocals and the duo's solid knack for nobullshit dance grooves are served well by a consistent mood of tense detachment the sort of mildly intriguing disconnect that comes with the combination of upbeat synthpop and downbeat lyrical ennui. It's not always the most distinct lyrical ennui, granted, with words that don't get any less vague than the titles and sentiments that often need to be heard between the lines. Just meet it all halfway, and it'll be fine. As slippery and elusive as this album's thrills can be, they'll eventually fall into place, one track at a time. "}