{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16337/homepage_large.657b02c1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Ramadanman / Pearson Sound","title":"FabricLive 56","text":" David Kennedy is the kind of electronic artist that drives casual fans crazy. He performs and/or produces under three different names (his own and the two attached to this mix); he has a boatload of singles under a cast of genre banners; he's behind one of UK bass' most consistently rewarding labels, Hessle Audio; and he has never released a fulllength album. Following him to date has required the type of dedication that, unfortunately, too often deters people from electronic music fandom. Far from obscure, though, Kennedy is a hotly tipped wunderkind, prominent enough that electronicfocused site Little White Earbuds named him the defining artist of 2010. This is how an artist that many people have never heard of ends up helming not just the next installment of the popular FabricLive series, but a highly anticipated installment. At his core, Kennedy is a relentless style maven, a forwardlooking producer and DJ whose curiosity and appetite for the new and regional can make him seem skittish, even standoffish. (To wit: he often gets credit for being one of the first European DJs to adopt the Footwork sound, and its brash repetition suits him perfectly.) He deals in a stridently rhythmic brand of techno, borrowing the syncopation of dubstep, but with ampedup tempos and elements of reggae, UK funky, drum & bass, and Detroit techno stirred in. The pileup of styles gives Kennedy's music and mixes a casually aggressive tone; he's not actively trying to batter your sensibilities, but he doesn't care if he does. Remember when suburban skateboarders began listening to WuTang instead of NOFX? Kennedy's cuts have that sort of edgy, athletic bend to them. FabricLive 56 represents a chance for Kennedy to display his voracious appetite at work. He wastes no time, racing into 56 with his own, ominous \"Hawker\" before cutting into a slice of the notoriously icy Berghain sound from Leon Vincent. It feels... a little unfriendly, to be honest. Kennedy's quick cuts the mix touches on fully 30 tracks sometimes feel like they're in the service of his waning attention, rather than the listener or the track. The payoff for this thrillseeking is the same sense of energy and quick momentum that Kennedy instills in his productions. And for all his newschool ethos and exploration, Kennedy has a healthy dose of \"classic DJ\" in him: FabricLive 56 isn't merely a sequenced, curated set of tracks with transitions. He frequently lays the tracks on top of one other, letting elements of each bustle against each other. Toward the end of the mix, Kennedy has settled into some more recognizable tracks Burial's \"Pirates\", Girl Unit's \"IRL\", Addison Groove's \"Fuk tha 101\" but he takes ownership of them. At one point he lays the Eastern reeds from Pinch's \"Qawwali\" under MJ Cole and Wiley's \"From the Drop\", creating dubby, tense triphop. There is a sense of history, too, of Chicago house (the upwithdancing mantras of Julio Bashmore's \"Battle for Middle You\"), of German minimal, and of the type of dubstep he and his peers have obviously moved on from. This makes sense: Kennedy hails from a scene of artists who are redeploying classic tools 808s, 909s, simple sampling in the service of \"new\" dance music. The novelty of this music and it does feel novel lies in its aggressive technique more than its sound design or genre signifiers. He caters to that aggression throughout FabricLive 56 without ever losing sight of his responsibilities as a DJ. Waiting for a statement release from an artist with this mindset may be futile, so let's instead consider FabricLive 56 a snapshot of Kennedy's current fetishes; expect it to date quickly. "}