{"label":" Kill Shaman","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16345/homepage_large.137f82ab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Cheveu","title":"1000","text":" I'm basing the following assertion more on a feeling than actual research, but I think it's safe to say Cheveu's 1000 will be the highestrated album on Pitchfork to feature a Vanilla Ice song, never mind the Vanilla Ice song. Until vocalist David Lemoine starts spitting out the lyrics, though, Cheveu's version sounds more like a PeeWee's Playhouse outtake than a fauxghetto \"Under Pressure\". He doesn't fight the beat so much as bellyflop on top of it, his nasal vocals doing their damnedest not to sync up with the backing track's stiff and chintzy rhythm. 1000 is only the group's second proper album but this sort of odd musical digression seems to be a Cheveu staple. For their debut, the group took a simpering, sexfixated Philip Seymour Hoffman monologue from Todd Solondz's Happiness and set it to groceryshopping Muzak, with Lemoine offering a scarily accurate PSH impersonation. While Cheveu's music can be described as \"odd\" even at its most approachable, these tracks push the envelope further than required. That said, if this sort of tasteflaunting exhibition is necessary for Cheveu to produce the mindboggling, posteverything music they're good at making, then it's a small price to pay. In a genre where the word \"angular\" is used with alarming frequency, Cheveu's take on postpunk is obtuse in the best possible sense. When not setting fire to poprap or psychosexual film dialog, these frenetic Frenchmen take their sonic and spiritual cues from all sorts of musical pranksters: fellow countrymen and protoindustrial noiseniks Metal Urbain, British New Wave chuckleheads bIG fLAME and Family Fodder, and even good ol' American Captain Beefheart. Calling Cheveu eccentric only scratches their idiosyncratic surface. There's the eerily prophetic \"Charlie Sheen\", a track whose flipflopping between loping synth tones and digital hardcore breakdowns mirrors the actor's current manic state. There's \"Sensual Drug Abuse\", a spokenword/rap on the titular subject set over chiming hiphop groove burbles. There's \"Impossible Is Not French\", in which an IggyPoppish Lemoine repeatedly sneers variations on the lyric, \"French know how to do what you don't know what to do,\" through his usual pedaldistorted setup. Nothing from Cheveu sounds quite like anything else, but there's no mistaking who's making this noise. And then there's the string section. While touring Israel in early 2010, Cheveu spent some studio time recording shockingly normalsounding string arrangements with composer Maya Dunietz. If you're wondering how Cheveu feel about this surprising development, check out their 90second Israel travelogue on YouTube. What's even more surprising is how well these cultured bits of music fit into Cheveu's distinctively uncultured songs. On 1000's leadoff track, \"Quattro Stagioni\", the strings add an air of stately elegance to the tune's spymovie milieu. For \"No Birds\", their measured swooning provides a grounded counterpoint to the song's ramshackle textures. And on the MiddleEasternflavored \"Bonne Nuit Cheri\", they join forces with an economysized hallelujah chorus to provide a oddly stirring end to this beautiful mess of an album. I'd hesitate to say that 1000 is proof that Cheveu are \"growing up,\" but if their songwriting chops can mature enough to make room for honesttogoodness orchestration and equally honest emotion, there's no telling what sort of trouble they'll get themselves into. "}