{"label":" Hardly Art","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16348/homepage_large.fbe008d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Hunx and His Punx","title":"Too Young to Be in Love","text":" The first things we hear on Too Young to Be in Love, the fulllength debut from Hunx and His Punx, are wordless vocals cooing a familiar melody and the drums pounding out the iconic \"Be My Baby\" beat. To figure out the number of times these devices have been used over the course of the past three years, all you need is a calculator with a properly functioning multiplication key. But by the time Hunx frontman Seth Bogart alternates between speaking and singing in the first verse, all worries that the band might lean too heavily on dull, tasteful homage are thrown out of the window. The fourth wall is brought down and the band is all smiles and gleefully reveling in sockhop pastiche. But don't get \"pastiche\" confused with \"smug ironic distance.\" The 10 songs on Too Young to Be in Love are exuberant snapshots of rock music's earliest years, bursting with teenage romance and allusions to oral sex, but they are also very faithful ones. Backup singers are deployed (in addition to playing their respective instruments, drummer Erin Emslie, guitarist Michelle Santamaria, guitarist/organist Amy Blaustein, and bassist Shannon Shaw all contribute vocals) and the most recognizable chord progressions are used. And while the sense of enjoyment feels sincere, the band alternates between conveying uncomplicated emotion and offering up conscious subversion. Bogart is gay, which inevitably upends some of the archetypes from the 1950s and 60s. So the callandresponse of \"The Curse of Being Young\" and the bouncy \"Tonite Tonite\" sound like a local contemporary theater rewriting Grease, where Danny Zuko and Sandy Olsson are best friends who have a crush on the same boy. The vintage greaser girlgroup vibe comes courtesy of producer Ivan Julian (Richard Hell and the Voidoids), working in a studio that was once graced with the presence of Bogart favorite Ronnie Spector. The record's dry, modest production highlights the vocal performances. Bogart is not exactly what you would call a classically trained singer. His distinctively nasal tone is punctuated with a lisp, so if you're the type of person who winces and grits your teeth when confronted with the voice of, say, Cassie Ramone or John Darnielle, Bogart's singing will likely try your patience. The background vocals are useful for taking the focus off of him (most notably on \"He's Coming Back\"), and they are equally untrained, but not nearly as potentially divisive. On the other hand, Shaw operates as the band's charismatic secret weapon, stealing the scene on a handful of songs here. The freewheeling \"Bad Boy\" is improved by her rockabillyleaning rasp, emotion pours out of her leads in \"The Curse of Being Young\", and during the end coda of \"If You're Not Here\", Shaw is given a vocal solo, where she wrings a great deal of emotion out of a few simple words. She creates the album's most arresting moment in the process. After the 20someodd minutes of sounding like they're having a blast, the band slows down the tempo and changes the time signature on closer \"Blow Me Away\". With its lyrics of sadness, regret, and crying mothers, the song at first sounds like yet another one of the band's odes to young love. But it's actually about the suicide of Bogart's father during the songwriter's teenage years, giving a bolstered level of affect when he sings, \"I want you to blow your troubles down the drain/ And then you'll never, ever have to be in pain.\" It's one of those rare moments on the record where Bogart shows a sense of genuine vulnerability. It also marks a potential new direction for Bogart, who after a smattering of singles and a comp (2010's Gay Singles) finds cohesion and stability. "}