{"label":" Bpitch Control","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16342/homepage_large.3388f3a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Ellen Allien","title":"Dust Remixes","text":" There are two ways to interpret the feeling that these remixes of Ellen Allien's 2010 album, Dust, frequently outstrip their source material. The first is that Allien's recent, modest productions provide ample fodder for danceoriented producers to work with, the originals aiming at a different effect. The less charitable interpretation notes that a farflung, diverse cast of remixers had no trouble improving upon Allien's recent output. Wherever you come down, there's no denying that Allien still a prominent Berlin artist after all these years has really cool friends. The cast includes dedicated techno recluses (Kassem Mosse), sound architects (Tim Hecker), genre veterans (Aux 88), and young upstarts (Nicolas Jaar, We Love). Dust Remixes feels a bit like an olive branch to electronic heads, as most of the material here appropriates Allien's originals in the service of Berlinstyle club music, even if releasing them as an album rather than as a series of 12\"s throws that utility into question. Most noticably, many of these remixes cultivate an air of suspense and momentum that Allien's increasingly relaxed productions lack. Where a track like \"My Tree\" moved in and out of focus on Dust, here it sustains its circular drum pattern and builds into a thwumping bass sequence. There are some truly inspired moments: John Roberts unbuttons his collar on \"Should We Go Home\", unleashing a spacey, jazzy synth line. Heretofore disappointing BPitch artists We Love turn \"Sun the Rain\" into gauzy, rocking electro. These treatments make Allien's originals seem quiet and reserved in comparison, even if they didn't need much help seeming that way. Arguably the two largest names here, Jaar and Hecker, make a different kind of sense, as both have participated in the techno deconstructions to which Allien seems increasingly drawn. Jaar's track, more a cover version than a remix and one unable to imbue any tunefulness into Dust's worst track, is one of his least inspired productions. Hecker sounds like Hecker, natch. Mosse's remix of \"Our Utopie\" which sees him just taking the best, clubbiest section of the song and playing it for a long time is as lazy as it is funny. I enjoyed Dust because it was a considered, veteran move that felt comfortable in its own skin (sometimes overly so), but I can't get away from the feeling that Allien is getting outhustled more often than not. Remixes ultimately isn't a great listen Dust hardly merited this sort of concentrated rethinking but its highs are significantly higher than those of Dust, and it confirms both how closely Allien remains tied to her techno roots as well as how curiously offcenter her work has been. "}