{"label":" Staatsakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16355/homepage_large.fc451b20.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Jason Forrest","title":"The Everything","text":" Jason Forrest's middecade breakthrough was a coup when it came to the sampling arts. 2004's The Unrelenting Songs of the 1979 Post Disco Crash and 2005's Shamelessly Exciting hit during a post2manydjs/preGirl Talk lull in mashup culture, and these albums were singularly deranged acts of joyful violence against musical familiarity. You like having your musicnerd buttons pushed by recognizable snippets of canonical rock and pop favorites? Well, here they are crumbling to scraps, rattling around like superballs in a laundromat tumble dryer or burning like overheated film stock. Whether they were specific moments of instantly identifiable songs or a more generalist interpretation of certain genres, the way these loops were fed through Forrest's unpredictable yet danceable breakcore rhythms was invigoratingly grotesque. The Everything isn't quite as manic, however, and it doesn't have as many dramatic moments where wellknown decadesold pop context gets flayed to bits. Instead, the album is driven by a wideranging eclecticism that doesn't get much footing in one overarching style, often swapping out Forrest's most wellknown tendencies towards smithereenreassembling genre clashes for a more analog breakbeat sound. It's not a bad idea there are plenty of intriguing possibilities for what a Jason Forrest track could sound like without the Ktelinawoodchipper approach at work, since half the fun was what he did with the bass and drums that didn't rely on reinterpretive trickery. But the branching out necessitates a bit of an identity crisis, one that takes some getting used to. The two longest tracks are also the trickiest to get a grasp on, though for different reasons. \"Italian Lessons\" pulls together a disorienting synthesis of disco, prog, and suspense film scoring that plays out like an elaborate suite. The sprawl of \"Archive\" is a bit less focused you could blame the beat's attentiondeficit wandering from Chicago juke to hardcore jungle with a few gratuitous breakdowns thrown in but it could just be that the same hyperactive patternswitching that worked so well on Unrelenting Songs and Shamelessly Exciting feels less convincing when it's overlaid with cheap, tinny keyboard horns instead of finelydiced samples. Some inspired samplebased tracks do still show up, thankfully, even if they're not the same hilarious corruptions of famous hits that made Forrest notorious. \"Raunchy\" and \"Keys to the Door\" take a couple different tacks the former, a choppy splicejob of twangy guitars that shambles its way from straightforward bigbeat blues to a torrent of catastrophic noise, the latter a bit of vibesheavy fusionjazz loopwork that feels like a lost highlight from one of MF DOOM's Metal Fingers beat records. But it's clear that Forrest doesn't need to lean on glitchy looptweaking to create tracks that stick in your mind. The snarling guitar on \"Crime of the Century\" had to have come from some hard rock nugget somewhere, but it doesn't drive the track as prominently as the beat does, a snaky dubstep pulse that sounds like Distance with a grudge. And the title track's simply a crowdpleasing take on mid80s Mantronixstyle boomclap beats albeit one that gradually overwhelms itself and disintegrates into waves of synthesized decay. Stylistically jumbled and overambitious as The Everything is, it's successful enough in its adventurousness. And even if the one big trick of Forrest's mid00s work had a lot of life in it, it's good to hear he's got a few more in the bag. "}