{"label":" Natural Selection","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16357/homepage_large.17e8e92a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Capillary Action","title":"Capsized","text":" Capillary action is a physical phenomenon in which liquid rises against gravity. For instance, if you have a small puddle on your kitchen counter and put the edge of a paper towel in it while holding the towel vertically, water will spread up the towel. In the most basic sense, capillary action is liquid moving in an unexpected direction. This is what makes it an effective name for Jonathan Pfeffer's band unexpected directions are at the root of Pfeffer's songwriting, which is partly predicated on defying the momentum of uninterrupted 4/4 rhythms. We used to call what he does math rock, but that's not quite adequate to cover all the weird jazz elements the latest lineup of the band brings in, or the way he and the band tease listeners with bits of surprisingly poppy melody before yanking out the rug. The opening couplet of the second verse on the album, \"It's agreed that this is a suicide mission/ But we're past the point of no return now,\" feels almost like a private joke between band and listener by the time we hit it, we've already swerved through a couple of time signatures, a few startstops, and a breakneck progfunk groove, and it's clear that this is not a relaxing album. That won't be a surprise to people familiar with the band, but the way they go about it will. Whereas 2008's So Embarrassing often reverted to brutal, punkinspired noise rock as a sort of punctuation mark, those outbursts are largely curtailed here, in favor of sophisticated vocal harmony and passages that borrow from free jazz. Pfeffer also leaves his electric guitar in the case, sticking to a nylonstringed acoustic, while the band is built around upright bass, drums, trumpet, and accordion. Thing is, I didn't even notice the lack of electric guitar until the third time I listened to the album. The band wrings remarkable volume and aggression out of its setup, due partly to the fact that Dan Sutherland's drums are recorded with a heavy emphasis on the low end. They snap like you're in the room with them, which makes songs like album highlight \"Feeding Frenzy\" sound explosive. On that song, the drums are augmented by a battery of other percussion, including gongs, woodblocks, and handbells. In fact, there's not a single nonpercussion instrument on the song other than voices, but again, it doesn't call attention to its novelty. Not everything works as well. Sometimes a weird rhythm just sounds weird \"Sweepstakes\" has what sounds like a precomposed vocal melody that doesn't really agree with the lyrics, and it makes for an awkward vocal. A band that pushes itself out of usual rock comfort zones as unflinchingly as Capillary Action is almost inevitably going to have moments that don't work as well as others, though. It's being willing to take those risks and succeeding most of the time that makes them a good band, and Capsized a good album. "}