{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16356/homepage_large.df997cd2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Ed Askew","title":"Imperfiction","text":" Ed Askew's 1968 debut, Ask the Unicorn, remains one of acidfolk's farthestout relics, the product of a freshly blown mind working his way through big cosmic questions. 1970's Little Eyes cut its planetary curiosity with more terrestrial concerns, upping the Bob Dylan influence to its slight detriment. Just what happened between Little Eyes and 1984's Imperfiction is a bit unclear; lots of wandering, some painting, and little in the way of musicmaking. Still, the gravity of those years echoes in Askew's throat as he sings his way through the brittle, haunted Imperfiction, the rare lost album that genuinely feels adrift. Highpoint \"At Home in the Factory\" begins with \"international insanity\" and ends with Askew trailing off in a string of lalalas. In between, Askew makes his case for the healing power of song, a recurring theme throughout Imperfiction; later, Askew reminds a companion that, if nothing else, \"the music and we are real,\" and it's Imperfiction's most strikingly delivered line, almost as though Askew needed the reassurance himself. Though his melodies are clear and strong if a tad similar on the longer ballads the shakiness in Askew's voice turns these ponderances into bracing little koans. There's an exposednerve quality to the way Askew sings these Imperfiction songs that calls to mind Daniel Johnston, although in 1984 it's unlikely the two had heard each other's work. Many of Askew's tunes, like Johnson's, concern themselves with navigating the day at hand: writing songs, drinking tea, meeting dudes. There's a grasping at normalcy, a sense of a routine being rebuilt; there's something in his past forever weighing on his present, and it colors even his most assuredsounding material. Askew laid down Imperfiction on a twotrack recorder armed with just a harpsichord, harmonica, a tiple his favored instrument, a sort of shortnecked 10string acoustic guitar and his voice. The pairing of all that frail instrumental treble, Askew's prickly, justbehindthebeat singing, and his weirdly regal tumbleout melodies gives Imperfiction a richness that does well by its underlying fragility. \"Tom\" is little more than the story of Askew meeting a beautiful dude and sparking a doob, yet the loping, grand melody and the way Askew vehemently exhales every word suggests that this Tom guy was really songworthy. For all of Ask the Unicorn's hippy dippy forthrightness, there's an inscrutability to the record's psychonautics all but absent on the almost startlingly literal Imperfiction. Askew listens to blues records, watches the rain fall on broken glass, reminisces, drinks a lot; these moments of everyday intimacy give Imperfiction the feel of a rambling barroom catchup with a longlost friend. Askew starts Imperfiction singing tentatively, picking out melodies almost cautiously; by the end, he's singing devotionals to Jesus and Buddha, mulling over \"Art and Life\", fingers stiff against the harpsichord. \"What can you do in a crazy world?\" he asks in \"At Home in the Factory\". His answer? \"Write a song, sing it well, lalala.\" "}