{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16361/homepage_large.22345e69.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Low","title":"C'mon","text":" The short version of the prerelease trailer for Low's C'mon was nothing but a still shot of Alan Sparhawk, sitting at a table in front of a microphone with headphones on, slapping the surface in time with music we can't hear. The space between slaps is long, allowing the sound to reverberate around the church he's sitting in. I wondered if the trailer's spartan approach might signal a return to the band's earliest days, when 39 seconds of slow, cavernously reverberating percussion might have constituted the intro of a song. That was not the case C'mon doesn't retreat from the more fleshedout, strident sounds Low have spent the last decade cultivating but it was telling in other ways. The sound is still lush on the band's ninth album, but not in the same way as their two Dave Fridmannproduced LPs, Drums and Guns and The Great Destroyer. They recorded this album themselves with coproducer Matt Beckley in that old church, using the room's natural reverb to open up their sound. 2002's Trust, recorded in the same room, is a good reference point for the sonic character of C'mon, though the low end on this album is much airier. You'd expect Mimi Parker's drums to benefit from that approach, and they do, but Sparhawk's guitar also gets a lift the tone of his strumming on \"Nightingale\" is especially striking in its icy beauty. That guitar gets a couple of impressive workouts here, reflecting Sparhawk's work with Retribution Gospel Choir and on his Solo Guitar album. He hits upon this rough, dramatic sound on a few tracks, making for bracingly ragged lead lines. On \"Witches\", a drifting, clanging guitar line ties together the decidedly scattershot lyrics. On the groaning, eightminute \"Nothing But Heart\", Nels Cline appears on steel guitar, but the song really takes off in its final third, when Parker's towering vocal appears from nowhere. Parker takes the lead on one of the album's best songs, \"Especially Me\", riding a bobbing 6/8 rhythm with a haunting, multitracked performance. The very basic instrumental arrangement is almost like a spedup version of the band's strippeddown earlier work, at least until a rush of strings carries the song to its closing verse. Sparhawk and Parker showcase their distinctive harmonies on twinkling album opener \"Try to Sleep\" if all this is beginning to sound like a tour of the various twists and turns in Low's direction over the years, there's a good reason for that. Having covered a good deal of ground since breaking out of their original slowcore mold, on C'mon, Low seem undecided on a direction forward. As such, C'mon feels more like a collection drawn from throughout the last decade than a completely cohesive album. This could be viewed as the band sorting through the progress it's made in search of the next turn there are even a few songs that come close to revisiting the glacial sparseness of their earliest music. This is all to say that, if you already like Low, C'mon will not disappoint you, and though it's not their best album, it's a fairly accessible distillation of where they've been. "}