{"label":" Community Music","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16360/homepage_large.fda53d9f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Alexander","title":"Alexander","text":" Whether reading interviews with Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros frontman Alexander Ebert or simply listening to the last decade of his music, one gets the sense that he's the type of guy who might lean deep into a hammock and sans irony, with joint say, \"Yeah, man, music really is the universal language.\" That's not to mock Ebert as much as it is to point out that he's a successful songwriter who still seems to have very little sense of the kind of songs he writes. His debut with the Magnetic Zeros, 2009's Up From Below, hopscotched between downtrodden drifters, psychedelic pop, sturdy rock anthems, and the JuneandJohnny stunner \"Home\". Though enjoyable enough at times, it begged for focus. What's more, Ebert's still the frontman of Ima Robot, the dancepunk band that failed to cash in on the Franz Ferdinand moment early last decade. And now there's Alexander, written, played, and recorded by Ebert at home during tour breaks with the Magnetic Zeros. Equal parts charming and trying, unequal parts soul and rock and folk, it's an album that's as easy to love as it is to hate. In fact, I can't keep myself from doing both at once. Alexander employs the same eclectic, inclusive, and ultimately undecided aesthetic as Ebert's more famous main gig. There's a little reggae here, a little communal Afropop there, all covered in a homespun lofi haze. The album ends with a long, sadeyed ballad that mirrors \"A Change is Gonna Come\" and a cheery little number that pays Serge Gainsbourg his due, if not his royalties. It begins, though, with a bustling burst of folkpop called \"Let's Win!\". All frantic strums, wonky bridges, and staggered harmonies, it's like listening to Stephen Stills in a yellow submarine. That armsoutstretched approach has its moments, for sure: \"Truth\" is an unlikely hit waiting in the wings, with Ebert whistling around a staggering beat and chalky rhyming that suggest Jason Mraz dazed on Dilaudid. It's sort of perfect. Thing is, most every brilliant turn Alexander makes comes mitigated by some glaring misstep, and vice versa. \"A Million Years\", for instance, is the type of effortless, tender pop tune that your parents still hum from their childhood memories. It's a portrait of a oncelost soul who has finally found the woman that not only makes him believe in love but also, toward track's end, makes him howl like a Lion King extra. It's ebullient, effective, and unforgettable, but it's certainly editable, as Ebert tacks on a minutelong coda of grunts and harmonies that mostly feel like his request to join Akron/Family. But the Dylan vocal affectations and bland gospel references of \"Bad Bad Love\" swivel over an interesting mix of Pops Staples guitars and tessellating oneman harmonies. And though the fuzzy R&B traipse \"Remember Our Heart\" is a bit textbook, Ebert sings it like he feels it, howling about romantic disappointment with the spirit of a better soul singer. But Ebert can only save himself for so long, with some tangent or extraneous touch always curbing his best efforts. Still, there's something to be said for a songwriter as restless as Ebert. Sure, Alexander is an unsteady and uncertain release, but it's also a trial run by someone who has already made it. Musically, Ebert's a devil to tag, in large part because he seems to enjoy music hearing it, absorbing it, and, yes, sometimes imitating it so much. Mostly for that reason, he's yet to make a singularly compelling album, one long statement that should forever stand as his. "}