{"label":" Park the Van","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16368/homepage_large.dac70039.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Generationals","title":"Actor-Caster","text":" Without even hearing Generationals, it's easy to to get a grip on the band's broad, commercial appeal. Pull up the New Orleans indiepop duo's Wikipedia biography, and the mention of movies, television shows, and advertisements that the band has leant its music to nearly outweighs the descriptions of the 60sfetishism that defined their debut, Con Law. And in all fairness, there's little question that any ad agency with a modicum of sense would be wise to snatch up a good percentage of songs from their strong, second fulllength offering, ActorCaster, though many of its sharp, sprightly songs deserve to be enjoyed in places other than in front of the TV. Ted Joyner and Grant Widmer court their catchy tunes in uncomplicated ways, creating minor, genrespanning songs that oddly locate the same sort of similar kind of grinning, crowdpleasing affability. The dusty guitar boogie of \"TenTwentyTen\", which could pass for an early Phoenix track, is a great guidepost, showcasing the band's proclivity for lively rhythmics and frillless, friendly hooks. The variances strewn across ActorCaster are subtle but welcome, highlighting, if nothing else, that this is a band that can do more than just tastefully ape the sounds of the 60s. From the Gracelandindebted bop of \"I Promise\" to the jerky, lifeaffirming thump of highlight \"You Say It Too\", Genrationals trade in a number of types of hooks. Even when they step outside their contort zone a little, like on the twinkling, MGMTesque love song \"Yours Forever\", they do so with poise and clarity. Aside from the solid \"Dirty Mister Dirty\", which faithfully tips its hat to ELO with a woozy gruffness, the saccharine \"Goose & Gander\" which sounds like music made for tandem bike rides marks ActorCaster's steady decline. Acting as one last giddy hurrah, the second half of ActorCaster quickly resigns itself to bland balladry, completely pale when compared to the livelier first act. "}