{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16370/homepage_large.335bae7e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Broken Bells","title":"Meyrin Fields EP","text":" Broken Bells members James Mercer (of the Shins) and Danger Mouse, aka Brian Burton, each made their names on twisting the sounds of the 1960s the former turning the Beach Boys and the Kinks into gleefully obscure indie pop and the latter remixing the Beatles' White Album into a hiphop backing track. The music they make together, however, sounds instead like radio hits from some 1960s vision of the future: love songs from a world that will never exist. That sense of unrealizable possibilities reinforced the sense of loss on their debut, and made songs like \"The High Road\" and \"The Ghost Inside\" sound bruised and battered, but not bitter or jaded. These four new songs are outtakes and Bsides from their initial sessions, which along with that similar album cover suggests they intended Meyrin Fields as an epilogue to Broken Bells. Yet, the EP has its own distinctive flavor, notably different from that of the LP. Burton's production is somehow both heavier and lighter: There's more going on in these songs, but the elements, such as the Jack Nitzschestyle guitar on \"Heartless Empire\" or the constant blips and beeps on \"Windows\", evoke spaceship mechanization and antigravity weightlessness. Gears grind and sirens wail on the title track, while a high, inhuman voice ghosts Mercer's vocals to reinforce the catchiness of the melody, like a gremlin in the works. If Broken Bells was indeed a breakup album and especially if it turns out to be about the breakup of the Shins Meyrin Fields continues that theme and plays it out a bit more, suggesting new stages of grief and acrimony. Meyrin Fields never sounds as eulogistic as Broken Bells did. It's less about loss than about the undiscovered country that comes after. That's a lot for four songs to convey, but it comes through clearly on the EP's first half. The title track and \"Windows\" are both tense and ominous, with similar stabs of melody and a distressed urgency to the production. Burton treats the songs as short films to soundtrack, and every element goes toward reinforcing Mercer's dark drama. In fact, perhaps the main spark in this collaboration is how it gets both artists outside their comfort zones: Burton's beatmaking priorities draw Mercer out of his indiepop realm and reveal the breadth of his songwriting, while Mercer's eloquent concision keeps Burton sharper and more focused. Both men show us something new, even as they struggle to break free of the gravitational pull of their other projects. On the second half, however, that tension releases, and Meyrin Fields powers down with the loping reggae approximation of \"An Easy Life\" and the buoyant drift of \"Heartless Empire\". The arrangements are less insistent and sinister, but the melodies remain slightly chilly. \"An Easy Life\" was originally released as an iTunes exclusive to the album, and it sounds similarly tackedon here. \"Heartless Empire\" does it one better, but throws everything grinding guitars, a whistled solo at a song that simply isn't very memorable. Still, this EP sounds like more than the sum of its parts. Maybe it's the realization that Gnarls Barkley will never top \"Crazy\" or that the Shins may never reform, but there's an intriguing sense of desperation on these songs, as though both Mercer and Burton are realizing that this band could indeed be their lives. "}