{"label":" Re-Up","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16386/homepage_large.6204e952.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Pusha-T","title":"Fear of God","text":" \"Roll With the Winners\" was a classic track from Clipse's We Got It 4 Cheap, Vol. 2 mixtape, but Pusha T, that duo's more visible half, is a whole lot easier to root for when he's losing. From 2004 to 2006, Clipse were down and out, forgotten by their label even though they'd made a hit album, written off by an industry that preferred its cracksales talk bigger and dumber. And the group responded by making their best music ever, exceeding even their great debut, Lord Willin', with the two Got It 4 Cheap mixtapes and Hell Hath No Fury. On these records, Pusha and older brother Malice projected raw, unbridled animosity rendered in dense, twisty language that showed them to be two of the best writers of their rap generation. But after those displays of hunger, ferocity, and intelligence, they went on autopilot, cranking out a few mixtapes and another album that sounded utterly tappedout and devoid of inspiration. A year ago, the group's critical and commercial future looked dim, and Malice embarked on an unexpected religious journey that led him to write a Bibleinformed memoir. And all of a sudden, Pusha seems to be closer to stardom than he ever came in the Clipse. Kanye West snapped him up as a solo artist and made him the linchpin of Kanye's G.O.O.D. Music roster. Pusha got to step onstage at the VMAs in a \"Miami Vice\"looking dinner jacket and deliver a shattering closing verse on \"Runaway\", and Kanye made room for Pusha verses in a ton of his G.O.O.D. Friday mp3s. Now Pusha has a label boss who appears to have full faith in him, and that label boss happens to be the most visionary producer in rap today. If ever there was a time for Pusha to make good on all his underdog promise, this is it. Instead, he's given us a mixtape so flat and lazy that I almost don't know why it exists at all. Fear of God is less than 40 minutes long, and too much of that running time is given over to pointless freestyles over wellcirculated tracks, or to tracks so flimsy that they barely exist. This is when Pusha should be establishing himself as a major artist, not freestyling over Soulja Boy's \"Speakers Going Hammer\". On opening song \"My God\", Pusha snarls, \"Bear witness as I unveil this instant classic,\" but nothing about the tape suggests that he's interested in making any sort of classic. Pusha has some serious gifts in his favor: a great snarling delivery, a vivid eye for detail, a writer's gift for getting welltrod ideas across in ways nobody could've expected. But too often on Fear of God, he's just filling space with flat, workmanlike rhyme patterns and outofgas punchlines: \"Money on my mind like my pillow is a vault.\" \"Touch It\", in which Pusha and Kanye beg for head, is the weakest Kanye West track in years, complete with a beat that must've been sitting around Kanye's hard drive forever. And on \"Open Your Eyes\", producer Nottz turns \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" into pitchedup chipmunk soul, which nobody ever needed to hear. On too much of Fear of God, nobody even seems to be trying. But when the mixtape does crackle to life, we see a whole other side of the solo rapper Pusha could be. \"Raid\" has an absolutely vicious pianodriven Neptunes beat and an onfire cameo from 50 Cent, and Pusha raises his game accordingly, giving his most energetic performance of the mixtape. And on \"I Still Wanna\", he shares a churning, operatic Rick Rosstype beat with Ross himself, and everyone comes out sounding bloodthirsty. If Pusha had made a whole mixtape of songs like these, it would've been incredible. Otherwise, though, it's just a confusing affair. On his G.O.O.D. Friday tracks and his My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy verses, Pusha sounded like Kanye had lit a fire up under him; that fire seems nothing but a barelyglowing ember through most of Fear of God. And considering the amount of faith Kanye seems to have in Pusha, I can't understand why he'd do so little to prove Kanye right. At the beginning of his freestyle over JayZ's \"Can I Live\", Pusha says that he's recording at the Emirates Palace in Abu Dhabi. If that's true and it might be it makes no sense. Pusha shouldn't have to leave his basement to record a \"Can I Live\" freestyle. And unless that freestyle turns out to be as sharp as what he was doing on We Got It 4 Cheap, Vol. 2, he shouldn't even be letting us hear it. Right now, I'm just hoping Pusha makes an album strong enough that we can all pretend Fear of God never happened. "}