{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16383/homepage_large.2b92d39f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Micachu and the Shapes","title":"Chopped & Screwed","text":" With their terrifically engaging 2009 deubt album, Jewellery, Londonbased Micachu and the Shapes superficially came off as a trio of gleefully amateurish kids bashing out a noisily tuneful brand of junkshoppop, breaking rules because they didn't know any better. In truth, the group's lead singer and mastermind, Mica Levi, studied violin from a young age (her mother is a cellist) and received a classical indoctrination at music school. As you spend more time with Jewellery, you begin to realize that even its roughesthewn, seemingly random elements carry such a concentrated punch that they could only be the product of an artist who was extremely focused and in control of her materials. Given her history, it makes perfect sense that Levi would gravitate toward a project like Chopped & Screwed, a oneoff collaboration (performed in May 2010 at Kings Place in London) between the Shapes and the London Sinfonietta, an orchestral ensemble made up of strings and woodwinds. It also makes sense, knowing the breadth of Levi's sonic interests and her hunger for experimentation, that sooner or later she'd bite off a bit more than she could readily chew. And so it is with Chopped & Screwed, which is conceptually fascinating and occasionally hits on something really compelling and fresh, but is also only sporadically engaging. Of course, even when things feel aimless, it's still intriguing to hear Levi and the other musicans working through their ideas. As its title suggets, Chopped & Screwed draws inspiration from the Houstonborn hiphop practice of manipulating beats and slowing down tempos to mimic (and cultivate) a drugged, disoriented sensation in the listener. Don't expect to hear molassesthick male voices drawling about candy paint over slow beat claps here, however. The Shapes' and Sinfonietta's kinship with the likes of DJ Screw is all about aiming for that same feel of dislocation. The way they go about attempting to achieve it is certainly creative basically, the ensemble saws or trills away on their instruments while the Shapes pluck and hammer at homemade stringed or percussive contraptions (the rotating doohickey Levi plays is particularly nifty), alternating between frantic and syrupyslow tempos seemingly at a whim. Above the maelstrom, Levi slowly and lowly intones lyrics that are frequently incomprehensible. More important are her melodies, which make \"Everything\" and \"Low Dogg\" the album's standouts, as Levi's arty appetites contend with the razorsharp pop sense she displayed throughout Jewellery and that I hope she always retains. The likes of \"Unlucky\", \"Fall\", and \"Not So Sure\" aren't as immediately riveting but do the best job of replicating screw's woozy allure. That said, there's an awful lot of connective tissue here fairly lengthy passages (especially for such a short album) bridging the more immediate moments. If the performance had been longer, such sequences would be acceptable interludes. As it is, it feels like dead patches make up almost half of Chopped & Screwed. Shelve it next to the Knife's Tomorrow, in a Year as an effort that hearteningly shows an inspired artist staking out bold terrain, but one that only fitfully delivers the impact of the artist's previous, popfocused work. "}