{"label":" Rhymesayers","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16406/homepage_large.5703e7df.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Atmosphere","title":"The Family Sign","text":" Lots of indierap figures wallow in selfpity, bemoan their own bad habits, snap at those who make life hard for them, and somehow find a way to wrap all those emotions up into a resilient shell. But Atmopshere's Slug established a particular knack for it when he broke outside the Twin Cities about a decade back every heartfelt line about lonely people or fractured relations was offset by an offhand remark that took some the sting out of his lamentations. Atmosphere got tagged as \"emo rap\" because there wasn't an easier goto term for a barfly raconteur with female troubles, but while Slug's lyrics spoke to the same sour impulses that drove teenage misery, they did so through the experiences of someone who discovers to that misery when you grow up. The catch is that growing up also means growing out of a few things, and The Family Sign catches Slug at a point where he seems to be tilting more towards plainspoken sincerity. The harddrinking, lovestressed, partyfatigued persona that made him a breakout cult figure 10 years ago might sound somewhere between disingenuous and ridiculous coming from a 38yearold today. But in stripping some of the more largerthanlife traits of misspent youth away from his approach, he's also lost some of the outsized arrogance and awshucks smartassedness that gave his more pofaced moments a threedimensional context or sharp emotional counterpoint. While The Family Sign has a specific titular focus on loved (and formerly loved) ones and the way people define themselves through them, the real conceptual leap on this album is how patriarch maturity means less jokiness, more earnestness, and a traveled perspective that doesn't leave much room for not giving a fuck. What room is left winds up parceled out over a couple of highlights. As blunt as the premise is, the negligent alky father meets stoner pickpockets of \"Bad Bad Daddy\" has a certain caustic bite to it. And the roadravaged, detailrich narrative of \"Millennium Dodo\" evokes the same harebrained excitementslashdisorientation that made the best moments of 2003's fantastic Seven's Travels stand out. Pointing out his car's mirrorball décor as an homage to Escape From New York or noting the resemblance between a Best Western clerk and \"WKRP in Cincinnati\" nebbish Les Nessman is the sort of popculture debris that's evocative enough to transcend referencedropping and hint at the metaphorical reserves in Slug's brain. But the track also starts out with a couplet \"I only act like an asshole/ Why don't ch'y'all stand back, let the man grow\" that explains the rest of the album's almost total lack of sardonic edge. Heartfelt moments haven't necessarily been beyond Slug's grasp When Life Gives You Lemons, You Paint That Shit Gold highlight \"Wild Wild Horses\" and \"Lifter Puller\" off Seven's Travels are genuinely moving in a way that few indierap love songs are. But here love songs are deployed a bit blankfacedly, strings of clichés, shrugging platitudes and halfthoughts drawn together into a husk of what used to be a compellingly contradictory personality. The idea of a banal yet subtly tense reunion with a longforgotten ex in \"Your Name Here\" is undercut by the fact that there's not enough interesting personal details to make Slug's rejected reconnection come across like anything more than a petty dismissal. And while \"The Last to Say\" is 100% worth hearing if it convinces just one woman to leave the abusive asshole that blackens her eyes, it's weird that it sounds less emotionally invested than the sharpspitting breakup kissoff \"Just for Show\". As Slug's performative role dials down the emotional resonance, the beats have followed suit into a lowintensity churn, one that undercuts what could've been a set of adventurous liveband hiphop with a uniform lethargy that tops out at midtempo. While the instrumentation of When Life Gives You Lemons signaled a wealth of potential new directions for Atmosphere's production, The Family Sign runs almost entirely on gloomy ballads heavy on maudlin piano chords and keening guitar riffs. That latter instrument's maybe the most interesting sonic component of Ant's postsampling compositional phase, and Nate Collis cranks out Black Keysian twang (\"Bad Bad Daddy\"), psychedelic noir (\"My Key\"), and eerie slide (\"The Last to Say\") with versatile ease. And if Erick Anderson's keyboards tend to provide more texture than melody, at least he's as handy with Jackie Mittoo reggae riffs (\"Just for Show\") as he is with new wave glow (\"I Don't Need Brighter Days\"). But there's little to cut through the fog with the exception of the joybuzzer jolt of \"She's Enough\" and the flailing attempt at Nilssonstyle AM pop on \"Ain't Nobody\", this is music that conflates maturity with exhaustion. "}