{"label":" Hyperdub","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16402/homepage_large.119d69b7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Burial","title":"Street Halo","text":" Burial puts out music seldom enough that when he does, it's an event. It's a scarcity thing: Instead of flooding the market with music, he keeps fans wanting, and he and the labels he works with know how to capitalize on that desire. A limited, vinylonly collaboration with Thom Yorke and Four Tet, on the latter's Text Records, was released with only a week's advance notice and sold out in no time. With the exception of the limited, vinylonly pressing, Hyperdub followed a similar strategy for this release, Burial's first new solo material since 2007, and label boss Kode9 helped build the anticipation by premiering tracks on Benji B's BBC radio show. Not many electronic producers can command that type of hype. Fortunately, Burial hasn't disappointed us. Anyone who feared that he might have moved on to a new sound perhaps, like James Blake, embracing pop songwriting can breathe a sigh of relief: This is the same melancholic Burial we've known and loved from the beginning. But listeners who wondered if the formula might be wearing thin, diluting itself amidst all the rainy pitterpatter and tearstained chords, can also breathe easy. While sticking to the emotional terrain he's known for, Burial also subtly pushes his sound in new directions. \"Street Halo\" is the closest Burial has come yet to the straighter cadence of house and techno, with shuffling hihats and a crunchy handclap/fingersnap sound accentuating the 4/4 pulse; the middling tempo backs off dubstep's quick snap and eases into a relaxed, rolling house groove. The backbeat bassline even recalls, however unconsciously, Ricardo Villalobos' \"Dexter\", which isn't necessarily as absurd as it sounds: Both artists have a thing for accidental syncopations and splintering percussion. As always, Burial's beats are oblique, with a hazy percussive clatter lurking behind crisp, timekeeping accents. And again, he has made mournful, a cappella vocals the melodic focus of the track, and everything is suffused in a suggestive layer of static and grit. But he's a masterful arranger, frequently switching up elements focusing one minute on a blunt, raveinspired bassline, and the next on supersaturated vocal harmonies that sound like overdriven Cocteau Twins. The track follows a counterintuitive logic, abandoning the predictable structure of breakdowns and buildups in favor of twists and turns you don't see coming, including a fake fadeout at the end. The second track, \"NYC\", is even better. It's got all the yearning you could want from Burial, thanks to its keening vocal lead and stately synthesizer pads. Taking his virtual razor to a long strip of female vocals, he seems to have cut and pitchshifted it in such a way that it hangs in the balance between meaning and pure sound, with slippery nonsense syllables giving way to clearer phrases (\"...when I'm around\") loaded with ambiguous emotion. Rhythmically, Burial takes up the staggered cadences of UK garage, long a favorite of his, but he slows the tempo to around 115 bpm. It's a brilliant move, giving garage's whipcrack syncopations an additional spring in their step; when combined with those floating keyboards and vocals, the groove feels almost deliriously buoyant. (As a visual analogy, I'm reminded of the underwater acrobatics in the video for Portishead's \"Only You\", which turns out to make a superb visual accompaniment to Burial's screwed kinetics.) It's strange to think that so few producers have explored grooves like this at similar tempos; in Burial's hands, it's a perfect merger of the pensive and the sensual. \"Stolen Dog\" is also based upon a midtempo house groove, but the rhythm is less urgent than on the other two tracks, its elements restricted to a thumping kick drum, faint hihat tick, and faint, syncopated rimshots signaling the distant ghost of 2step garage. There's a singsong feel to the lilting synthesizer melody and the layered vocals over the top; it feels almost like a lullaby, with soothing chord changes doing their best to keep the darkness at bay, as dissonant bursts and ghostly clatter loom in the background. It might be the least essential of the three tracks here, but it's every bit as carefully thought out. Somehow, despite a sound bank that has long since become familiar, Burial keeps finding new ideas to animate his worn, mournful samples. "}