{"label":" Polydor / Candent Songs","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16418/homepage_large.6a95bc70.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Jamie Woon","title":"Mirrorwriting","text":" Is 2011 turning out to be the year UK bass music goes semimainstream? Well, kinda. Sorta. Not exactly. For one thing, genres like dubstep and funky have been moving away from the club fringe and toward the center of the pop conversation for a while now. (In the UK itself, they've been at the center for some time already.) Dubstep sonics, however toneddown or disguised, can be heard in all sorts of chart music these days. And now we have a full slate of singers with (sometimes very loose) connections to bass culture, several of whom have released albums in 2011 aimed as much as folks who need songs as folks who obsessively collect dubplates. Thing is, and not a little ironically, the singer whose songs have the strongest sonic connection to UK bass is also the most pop, Katy B, where the hardhitting drums and wobbler bass effects are sweetened by her Iwannabeastar delivery. Meanwhile, dubstep fans, juiced on the weird rhythmic experiments of his early singles, have been scratching their heads trying to figure out why James Blake's album so firmly lashed itself to the mast of indiecrooner culture. And in the middle, we have Jamie Woon. Almost the exact middle, actually. Young and schooltrained London singer Woon's debut album, Mirrorwriting, sits between Katy B and James B, pop theatricality and singersongwriter calm, club culture and bedroom indie, oldschool soul and modern electronic R&B, extroverted and introverted. And tying it all together is the language of UK bass. His first major single, 2010's justly lauded \"Night Air\", announced him as one of a number of young English artists for whom garage, and everything that came after, was just another bit of pop language to use. And from the slowmotion jungle syncopations and muted bass blare of \"Street\" to the stuttering retrorave breakbeats that drive \"Spirits\", the computerassisted Woon makes sortapop from the last 20 years of UK dance the way current U.S. guitar kids draw from surfrock and girlgroups. But if that's all Woon was doing, he'd be just another indie onemanband with a full software suite, making specialist music with materials from stuff with more popappeal. A couple things about Mirrorwriting make you wonder though if Woon really is destined for crossover success. One is his voice, which is the instrument that turns many of these songs from sortapop to realdeal pop. Much has been made that Woon went to the same school that gave us Amy Winehouse. His delivery is lowkey for most of Mirrorwriting, far from her roadhouse belting, but the guy's clearly got chops, and an elastic way with a number of styles. And unlike a lot of guys making a murky latenight brand of indiesoul right now, Woon's pleasingly warm and smooth tone, mixed mostly upfront with little obscuring reverb or distortion, gives you the feeling that he could have a straight R&B career if he wanted. His restraint and lack of melisma trickery seems more like a choice to fit the slow drift of the music, not a limitation, and his use of HTDW/Blake style heavily processed vocals is careful, like Burial samples deployed as background harmonies. Woon wants these songs to appeal to folks for whom digitally tweaked singing is an occasional fun special effect, rather than the whole draw. And while the album's mostly full of leftfield R&B, there are also hints of Hall and Oates, 80s Brit synthpop, house, and more. There's also an occasional and unfortunate tendency toward limp VH1ready MOR ballads, which it must be said comprises the album's weakest stuff, though thankfully Woon doesn't indulge this side as much as a truly crossoverminded hack might. Woon's attempted to bridge so many opposed vibes here that you'd want to praise his ambition, even if he couldn't pull it off. The fact that Mirrorwriting really does manage to blur so many different musical worlds into something so smoothly unified is Woon's real achievement. But because of that very inbetweenness, Mirrorwriting is still likely to rankle genre partisans of all stripes. Too slick and synthheavy and modern for fans of Winehousestyle retrosoul. Too subtle for true dubstep fans wanting more club thunder. Not subtle enough for those heartonsleeve beat weirdos who've made James Blake a cause celeb. So it'll be interesting to see if it really is the wide mass of pop and indie listeners that winds up embracing Woon's everythingatonce approach. Whoever his audience turns out to be, Woon's managed one assured and beguiling hybrid of UK bass pressure and slick blueeyed soul. "}