{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16410/homepage_large.0a445557.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Family Portrait","title":"Family Portrait","text":" New Jersey's Family Portrait have for too long existed seemingly to serve the purposes of others. Acting as a sort of house band for the Underwater Peoples label (they formed when Real Estate needed an opening act at a party), the fourpiece has played the background while its brother and sister acts Real Estate, Andrew Cedermark, Beach Fossils, Julian Lynch found their niche and made their names. Now with their selftitled debut, Family Portrait look ready to finally come into their own, distilling the essence of UP's familiar fussfree garage jangle while carefully crafting their own unique voice. Though the album doesn't start out that way. Opening midtempo tracks \"Glide Part I\" and \"Wait\" are worrisome red herrings that find Family Portrait rehashing the same weary sounds they have (quite charmingly) halfassed on oneoff singles and EP splits in the past. But what follows is anything but bland: While it's easy to describe their sound and play connectthedots with similar bands, it has a strange magic, an unmistakable allure you can't quite put your finger on, that makes music this simple so very satisfying. Credit coproducer Julian Lynch, who injects his own personality into a few of these tracks, showcasing reverbrippled guitars and the watery textures that have peppered his own recordings. (Lynch's most recent fulllength, Mare, feels like a relevant touchstone here.) In particular, the gorgeous \"Instrumental\" gets a necessary boost from Lynch's explorations. But he also knows when to leave the group alone. There's a reason for Family Portrait's reputation as a really fun band when they're rolling, like on \"Other Side\" or \"Killer Statements\", it's best to just hit record and try to capture some of their intense, onetake energy. Family Portrait's other secret weapon is frontman Evan Brody. He's not a great singer by any stretch, and his voice is often drowned out in the mix (a symptom of the record's organic production). But Brody knows how to drag out a vocal hook (see the mirrorballspeckled prom waltz \"Come Back to Me\"), and his enthusiasm is contagious on the sunburnt paisleypomp of \"Interlude  Never Should've Been There\". He's clearly a guy who, even when his group is playing secondfiddle, couldn't be happier doing anything other than singing in a band. And now with this solid debut, it's safe to say he's got himself a really good one. "}