{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16412/homepage_large.b3f26e8a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"LAKE","title":"Giving & Receiving","text":" LAKE, a gentle indiepop quintet from Olympia, Wash., embody a type of unhurried organization. Their music is busy but not aggressively so; it feels orchestral, but aside from the occasional horn chart the band sticks with pop/rock standardbearers. Giving & Receiving is the band's third fulllength for K Records, on which they continue to innocuously fidget with their miniatures. LAKE's music is aimless, but pleasantly so. For all of the time spent on the arrangements, there doesn't appear to be a guiding principle; not to perfect cuddly songcraft, not to scheme the least threatening electric guitar sound ever recorded, not to be Sufjan Stevens. Flaws and inconsistencies are what drew me to LAKE's previous record, Let's Build a Roof, which, despite being a tweeinflected album about domesticity that featured an entire song about camping in the yard, had a subtle but distinct soul influence. Giving & Receiving is a quieter record than the already quiet Roof, and the pushandpull between its bigbutsmall arrangements is less apparent. When the band jumps into an almost progy groove on \"Mother Nature's Promise\" it feels like those mid1970s Beach Boys genre experiments, like a band ably and enjoyably coopting a sound that they'll never return to. In other words: no pressure. LAKE's best music has a pace that is enormously comforting. You might be waiting for a hammer to drop, to which I'd say... which one? Some options: quaint, cute, precocious, Trader Joe's. LAKE's peculiarities are almost all internal, so it's possible that if their specific purview doesn't grab your ear, nothing will. They will sound like unremarkable, overtly precious indie pop in the vein of plenty of other bands. The opening chords for one of the album's best songs (\"Pilgrim's Day\") recall the Dave Matthews Band's \"Crash\", which alone might be enough to brand LAKE \"offensively inoffensive.\" I'm resisting the urge to say \"I wish they'd built off of Let's Build a Roof,\" because I haven't the slightest idea what I would have wanted them to build. I still appreciate how their minutely focused songs have ornate houses, and how tiny those homes are; I just don't find them quite as charming. "}