{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16415/homepage_large.e385de86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Hauschka","title":"Salon des Amateurs","text":" Lately, there have been a number of acts making variations on house music, loosely speaking, using acoustic instruments and ensemble techniques. Brandt Brauer Frick is probably the best known in dance circles, performing thumping, technoinspired grooves with lineup of harp, strings, mallets, and other acoustic instruments (as well as the requisite laptop and 808 handclap). But there are also Nicolas Jaar, Wareika, dOP, and Kadebostan, among others; Elektro Guzzi, signed to Stefan Goldmann's Macro imprint, splits the difference between minimal techno and math rock with just drums, electric guitar, and effects. Hauschka's Salon des Amateurs is the latest addition to the canon. It has been made primarily with prepared piano, with understated contributions from múm drummer Samuli Kosminen and Calexico's John Convertino and Joe Burns. It might seem like a bold move coming from Hauschka (Volker Bertelmann), a musician who's best known for intimate, classically inspired recordings for chamber ensemble or prepared piano hushed, pretty, and sometimes bordering on precious. The point hasn't been lost on Hauschka himself, who spells out his status as an interloper in the selfeffacing title. (It also refers to a club in the artist's native Düsseldorf where he presents an annual piano festival.) But he needn't have: Salon des Amateurs is an inspired reverse engineering of house and techno's fundamentals, replacing the music's familiar circuitry with steel wire and felt pads. By design, it's not really house music: There's no rhythmic quantization or bottomheavy kick drum to appease club DJs. Compositionally, too, these songs are more ambitious than most club tracks, given to the kinds of harmonic changes that don't lend themselves to DJ tools. But it's not not house music, either. Despite varied rhythms and tempos across the album, steady 4/4 grooves are the norm. All the songs share dance music's fondness for  ring pedal tones and a  long, arcing shape, even if the mood and the style range from minorkey funk to steppy tango to allout pastoral bliss. This is the kind of music you could imagine being played by DJs like Dixon, Âme, or Optimo DJs who know how to recognize dance music's essential thread, no matter how wooly the garment. There are two main instruments here, Hauschka's piano and his computer. (Occasional percussion, horns, accordion, and bass synthesizer add color.) The piano he prepares, in the tradition of John Cage, with any number of small objects paper clips, clothespins, a packet of TicTacs inserted between strings or laid across them in way that provokes strange, tinny timbres and harmonics. (You can watch him prepare his piano in a fascinating series of videos on NPR.org.) Thus the piano, or a few notes of it, anyway, can come to imitate growling synthesizer bass, congas, and spluttering ride cymbals. The computer is used as a multitrack recorder, allowing him to build each song in a succession of parallel lines. There is very little evidence of digital postprocessing; it sounds, for the most part, like he has played each part in full in real time, rather than cutting and pasting phrases and fragments into a posthoc collage. (For anyone interested in a really close examination of his method, you can download all 20 multitrack parts to \"Ping\" from Juno.) It sounds, for lack of a better word, organic. I don't mean that in a loaded way; some great electronic dance music is radically inorganic, fit together out of tiny snippets of isolated sound in such a way that emphasizes disjuncture. But this album, in contrast, feels natural, artless. There are no evident seams. The preparations give Hauschka an enormous range of timbres to work with, lending the music a wonderful sense of depth and texture, and tugging it closer to sounds normally thought possible only from electronic instruments. He also makes a good case for the piano as a percussive instrument, layering parts in short, repetitive bursts, indebted both to electronic music's syncopations and to the \"pulse\" minimalism of the 1960s and 70s. The influence of Steve Reich's Music for 18 Musicians and Terry Riley's In C is all over Salon des Amateurs, particularly in Hauschka's method of daubing on tone color, even if his sense of structure owes more to popular music. Ultimately, the album succeeds not in imitation, but interpretation, borrowing house music's rudiments and riffing on them until it takes the music somewhere else. Piano house is in vogue right now, but the vast majority of it sticks to a single sampled chord. This is something else. It isn't so much that it's a facsimile of house, with downbeats here and staggered chords there, but a way of assuming its voice, of learning its vocabulary and grammar, stumblingly, and embellishing along the way with ideas borrowed from jazz and pop and classical music. It's gleefully polyglot, confident even in its own clumsiness awed by the scope of its subject and humbled by its own limitations, but still brighteyed and unstoppable. If you've ever, while learning a language, passed through a phase where every new discovery felt like a giddy eureka moment, you'll know what I'm talking about. Curious, constantly in motion, full of puzzlelike counterpoints and arresting chord changes, it's a joy to listen to, and one of the brightest, most invigorating records I've heard all year. "}