{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16416/homepage_large.43901e93.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Julian Lynch","title":"Terra","text":" The most impressive thing about Terra, Julian Lynch's third album, is how much stylistic ground it covers while sounding like it barely gets off the collapsible camping chair. Taken as a whole, it's folksy postrock, but broken down into parts, there are elements of Pharaoh Sanders' meditative jazz; blossoming, Enolike song structures; George Harrison's Eastern flirtations; the monastic drones of mid70s German music; and the hippyish optimism of a group like the Incredible String Band. (There's probably more, too, but I'll leave room for the geeks and trainspotters.) Lynch's talent as a writer and as a listener before that is to hear how all these sounds essentially exist on the same spectrum: They're earthy, unhurried, and occupied by a hypnotic kind of beauty. Lynch is a 26yearold PhD student in ethnomusicology, which I weigh more as a biographical curiosity than some kind of key as to why he's able to make good music. He's not particularly phenomenal or technically capable as an instrumentalist (or if he is, he's not rubbing our noses in it), but he handles everything whether it's piano, drums, saxophone, or synthesizer without a twitch or fumble. And despite the variety of the instruments, everything on the album sounds like it's riding backseat. If anything sticks out, it's his voice it's a little nasal and attentiongetting, though I can't imagine him letting someone else sing, either. Lynch's music is essentially nice, which Pitchforker Joe Colly hinted at when reviewing last year's Mare: \"For how druggy and narcotized it sounds, it doesn't come across as sad or tunedout.\" I'd argue that it is tunedout, but I agree that it's not sad: Terra doesn't ever feel like it's staring down the void or opening a space for the listener's loneliness (whether it's the warm or the cold kind  ). Most of the album stays just above resting pulse at its most agitated, it's a hootenanny in slow motion. Lynch gets a lot of \"front\"/\"back porch\" in his reviews, which I generally agree with, but would choose to add: warm weather, fading daylight, bird twitter, and your relaxant of choice. It's hard to know what to make of Lynch, Matt Mondanile from Ducktails, and other shortsandsandal bros that have gotten popular in the indiesphere during the last few years. Terra is almost relentlessly benign. It's not music of struggle, or even music of depth. That's one thing that definitely makes it feel different from its antecedents: unlike, say, Pharaoh Sanders or the Incredible String Band or even Sung Tongsera Animal Collective, Lynch never stretches for transcendence or intensity. It's the musical equivalent of \"beer in the fridge if you want it, dude.\" That's not criticism, just a mild skepticism. Terra's reclamation of a lowstakes domestic space is ultimately more comforting than it is naive a counterweight to the impulse to make something glossy, agitated, and, well, young. It makes me think of what one of my favorite composers, David Behrman, said when asked about the therapeutic qualities of his music: \"The world is filled with busy, noisy music and noise in general and I'd rather contribute to the quieter end of the spectrum.\" Terra doesn't just contribute to the quieter end of the spectrum, it reminds me of the boundaries of that spectrum, and all the sounds murmuring inside them. "}