{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16420/homepage_large.64d37366.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Head and the Heart","title":"The Head and the Heart","text":" Recorded and released on their own dime, the Head and the Heart's selftitled debut is one of the biggest grassroots success stories of the past year. The Seattle band managed to sell 10,000 copies by word of mouth alone, which is impressive for any unsigned act, especially in this economic and business climate. They're touring relentlessly and have landed some enviable opening gigs for Vampire Weekend and, ahem, Dave Matthews. The result is a deal with Sub Pop and, inevitably, a rerelease of their debut. That would be a remarkable story if the album were innovative or intriguing, if it offered some new take on Pacific Northwest folkrock, if it had personality beyond its success. Instead, The Head and the Heart is a lackluster mélange of vaguely oldtime instrumentation, wan gospel harmonies, and heartalwaysonsleeve songwriting. Jon Russell and Josiah Johnson trade off lead vocals, each trying to outearnest the other, while Charity Thielen's violin traces placid swirls around the melodies. But it's Kenny Hensley's piano that distinguishes the band and broadens their palette, for better or worse. He injects some muchneeded pomp into \"Ghosts\" and \"Heaven Go Easy on Me\", goosing these songs out of their tasteful torpor. On the other hand, he constantly falls back on the tactic of repeating chords to convey general drama, which recalls Coldplay more than Tin Pan Alley. The band's name is intended to emphasize both emotion and intellect, yet so many of these songs fall flat in both aspects. They're capable lyricists, although prone to lapses in judgement. \"I wish I was a slave to some ageold trade,\" Russell sings on \"Down in the Valley\", \"like riding 'round on railcars and working long days.\" Neither of those examples truly qualifies as an \"ageold trade,\" and the implication of indie slumming may have some listeners clicking Move to Trash before the first Elizabethtown chorus. The song is a travelogue that goes nowhere at all. Such nods to history and to hard labor are meant to give this album the sheen of authenticity, but it doesn't take long to see through to the calculation beneath. Musically, the band's oldtime approximations resemble the Avett Brothers, but, without that group's effortless harmonizing, easy melodicism, and demonstrative vocals, the Head and the Heart sound anonymous, their drama wholly predictable. Conceptually, they're close to Mumford & Sons: opportunistic in their borrowings, yet entirely unimaginative in the execution. Theirs is a thoroughly timid, tentative take on Americana: roots music without the roots. "}