{"label":" Hyperdub","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16424/homepage_large.c8812d1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Kode9 & the Spaceape","title":"Black Sun","text":" Dubstep's crossover bid whether James Blake's introspective fragility or Katy B's pop hybridization is starting to obscure one of the genre's initial strengths: the way it could transmit anxiety. The soupy lowend and skittering hihats of a 2006 Hyperdub side made the ideal soundtrack for a sense of encroaching doom whether it was Burial's affecting desolation or a bracing dose of Kode9 & the Spaceape. The teamup of Hyperdub's flagship producer with the earthenvoiced poet resulted in an underappreciated fulllength, Memories of the Future, which shot chestcollapsing bass and gutter synthesizers through firebrand reggae. Their next prominent collaboration was a cover of the Specials' \"Ghost Town\" that appeared on 5: Five Years of Hyperdub and made the already grave original sound like a Less Than Jake song by comparison. If there are standardbearers for dubstep's more evocatively disquieting tendencies, it's these two. Given how many trends have shifted in the past five years, it's not worth debating how Black Sun fits in the current postBlake, postRusko, postMagnetic Man landscape. Instead, the album has the tricky but crucial task of keeping an archetypal strain of bass music part of an increasingly busy conversation. It does that to an extent, but a few key changes to the partnership's approach prove how much the formula can stretch. The duo's tensiondriven personality has been preserved, but the tweaks are noticeable instead of sinking into a singleminded atmosphere of futurist foreboding, the music is more sprightly and intricate, adding subtle stylistic retorts to the production's more aggressive traits. An easy case study would be to compare the 2009 version of the album's titular single with the \"Partial Eclipse Version\" that appears here. The original track was a bit of a left turn at the time woozy 8bit drones and a funkyinflected rhythm. Revamped here, its frantic rush is dialed down just enough to amplify the oldschool Detroit feel that was overpowered in the original mix less a panic attack than a nervous glance over the shoulder. The deceptively simple beats for \"Love Is the Drug\" and \"Otherman\" set dissonant, uneasy chords against sturdy, upbeat funky house rhythms, forcing otherwise unpredictable melodies into an offhand catchiness. And with its sizzling analog synthesizer decay, \"Kryon\", the beautiful albumclosing collaboration with Flying Lotus, feels less like a gratuitous guest spot and more like a culmination of Black Sun's equilibrium between pressured propulsion and elegiac calm. Meanwhile, the Spaceape still resonates, thanks to a voice suited for slowburn tension and corrosive damnation. This time around it's less smothered in filters and reverb, giving him a little more clarity. Whether he's abstracting a harrowing physical breakdown (\"Black Smoke\") or sprinting through warzone resilience (\"Bullet Against Bone\"), the Spaceape finds a way to make even the most severe lyrics hit as slickly and nimbly as the snare rolls he weaves through. Tension and anxiety don't always have to be cavernous and austere, and Black Sun reveals a way for dubstep's vanguard to express their more ominous impulses in a way you can still dance to, no matter how the steps change. "}