{"label":" Walt Disney","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16426/homepage_large.7f460b06.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"TRON: Legacy Reconfigured","text":" A sad fact of Daft Punk fandom: Once exemplars when it came to making dance albums that played like pop albums, for the past five or six years the duo's often been more enjoyable once they've been remixed, or when they venture into the visual. Their last proper album, 2005's Human After All, was poorly sequenced and way too long, full of tracks that were just blandly, grindingly repetitive. It was almost antipop but not in a truly outthere way. Good for DJs, in other words, and bad for those of us playing along at home. Given their lack of interest in making pop records now, it's been unsurprising that much of Daft Punk's activity over the last halfdecade has been about crafting raw material for remixing (including masterfully remixing themselves on 2007's livealbummeetsDJmix set Alive) and the cinema (including their foray into arthouse territory in Electroma from 2006). Here then is an album that combines the two. When it was announced that DP would be recording the score for the TRON reboot, it seemed like the natural next step in the duo's 21stcentury trajectory. A slick pop science fiction film, with a Disneysized budget lavished on its special effects, would surely provide their lushest visual accompaniment yet. And while the symphonic elements of the TRON: Legacy soundtrack made it very different from Human After All, as a homelistening prospect it played out in much the same way. Not so much fun to listen to minus the film's visual razzledazzle, and primed for creative remixers to turn the results into something closer to pop. TRON: Legacy Reconfigured succeeds as much as most remix projects do, which is to say about 50% of the time, and without Daft Punk's name attached to the project it's doubtful it would have attracted much attention. The list of remixers sure doesn't inspire much confidence, at least if you're not afflicted by a serious case of 1990s nostalgia. From Paul Oakenfold to Photek to Moby to the Crystal Method, it's full of names whose best work (using the phrase very loosely in some cases) is a decade or more behind them. If Daft Punk shaped a lot of the past 10 years, whether via indie kids glomming onto Discovery or brutalist dancerock producers picking up from Human After All, much of Legacy Reconfigured seems sonically stuck in the late90s era of superclubs and \"allstar\" remixes on CD single. The best tracks here are hugely unsubtle popdance tunes with big acidmeetselectro riffs in other words not too dissimilar from from what DP were peddling circa Homework. That's not a negative, of course. The Crystal Method's redo of \"The Grid\" is cheesily anthemic and unabashedly big in a way that's sadly rare these days, and Oakenfold's \"C.L.U.\" has a sturmunddrang epicness that the original soundtrack approached rarely. Much of Legacy Reconfigured is what many of us were actually hoping for from the actual Legacy score, and from Daft Punk in general: grandiose electronic pop full of bombastic hooks, without the genteel orchestral touches that felt like a lame cop to Hollywood tradition. Unfortunately, Legacy Reconfigured can't keep that intensity up across a whole disc. Plenty of these remixes are just inert filler. Oddly, many of the weakest remixes are by younger producers, like Teddybears' \"Adagio For Tron\", which could be any squelchy and interchangeable French dance single of the past five years. Who knows, maybe the new jacks were cowed by working with material from a group they consider a formative influence rather than just peers. In any event, taken as a whole, what we're left with is a solidly middleoftheroad project building off a solidly middleoftheroad movie score. The best you can say is that Legacy Reconfigured is less disappointing than Legacy itself. No one expects much from Paul Oakenfold these days, so it's a pleasant surprise here. But it's hard not to expect more from Daft Punk, even with how often they've missed in the last decade. "}