{"label":" Northern Spy","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16435/homepage_large.e2db008a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Rhys Chatham","title":"Outdoor Spell","text":" In 2008, New Yorkbred, Parisbased composer Rhys Chatham released Guitar Trio Is My Life!, a 3xCD set that gathered gargantuan live takes of his most famous piece in one plastic package. Those multiple versions of Guitar Trio, a piece written in 1977 for any number of guitars, were recorded in 2007, during a Chatham legacy tour. Essentially, Chatham roamed from city to city with a minimal core band and recruited rock musicians members of Sonic Youth, Tortoise, Godspeed You! Black Emperor to play along. During the Cleveland performance, as nerd lore has it, a drunk fan shouted, \"Guitar Trio is my life.\" The slogan stuck, and it's a telling one: Chatham has worked outside of Guitar Trio's onechord confines, sure, releasing a trumpet and electronics album in 1997 for Ninja Tune imprint Ntone and reissuing a threedecadeold, beautifully strange 1971 composition called Two Gongs in 2006. Thing is, Guitar Trio is the bellwether of his reputation, the thing that, if you know Chatham, you certainly know. Chatham's latest, the trumpetled Outdoor Spell, finally looks to shatter that typecast. Only the last of four pieces here, \"The Magician\", features any electric guitar, and even it's played by the Frenchman JeanMarc Montera. More importantly, though, the improvisation swaps Chatham's generally strict performance rules for 12 minutes of free jazz, with melodies and rhythms arriving only to blur into continuous slipstreams of texture and tension. Drummer Kevin Shea works in fits and starts, building a beat, it seems, just to beat the band toward a new direction. This is Chatham, fending off fealty to Guitar Trio with, well, a very different kind of guitar trio. That's not to say Chatham is ignoring his history: Rather, the opening title track and, really, the only essential piece here reaches into Chatham's past, beyond Guitar Trio and to the time he spent studying with Yoshi Wada, a drone pioneer who built seemingly eternal pieces with massive horns and electronics. \"Outdoor Spell\" loops Chatham's voice into a monochromatic blur, a sound that suggests the space is already full.  Steadily, though, Chatham adds various trumpet lines, recorded to suggest that they're surrounding his hum on all sides. The music begins to stretch not just horizontally, then, but also vertically. So much of Chatham's career has depended on lots of people 400 guitars, multiple bass players, a drummer who could shatter the sky to achieve that effect. But this is Chatham alone, and he brings the same powerinsound enthusiasm that's often made his most famous work so revelatory. At this point in his career, it's a brilliant look. Still, it's unlikely that any of these pieces become anyone's life, or that, 30 years from now, Chatham will structure a tour based around recreating them. The 18minute \"Crossing the Sword Bridge of the Abyss\", for instance, is an unfocused trip for solo trumpet and electronics. Voyaging through patches of Sun Ra, Albert Ayler, and early tape music, its transitions are as weak are its tones are motley. A mix of squawks and squeals, hums and howls, the piece shows Chatham's ability to make a lot of sounds without putting them together in a compelling fashion. His career has been largely defined, though, by very finite sounds arranged in shocking arrays. Here, above the cajón's rollick on \"Corn Maiden's Rite\", he successfully returns to that approach. During the past two decades, one of America's most interesting experimental record labels, Table of the Elements, released the bulk of Chatham's discography, from the beautiful A Crimson Grail to the declarative Guitar Trio Is My Life! After reshaping the scope of American minimalism and adding new approaches to both modern electronics and fingerstyle guitar scenes, though, Table of the Elements seems to have entered a spell of deserved and deep quiescence. Chatham's decision to release Outdoor Spell via New York's nascent NorthernSpy Records feels like an endorsement from the trusted guard, a sort of torch being passed to a young label that, like Table of the Elements, is working to combine veteran names with fresh perspectives. Outdoor Spell is, after all, an urgent, interesting proclamation for the 58yearold Chatham, one that gives the avantgarde legend some welcome, if sometimes uncertain, breathing room. "}