{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16438/homepage_large.3ae2b8de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"tUnE-yArDs","title":"w h o k i l l","text":" The stylization of the name tUnEyArDs in print is a bit offputting, but it at least gives people fair warning: This is not an act with any interest in politely conforming to expectations. tUnEyArDs is the music project of Merrill Garbus, a songwriter, vocalist, percussionist, and ukulele player who has fused elements of acoustic folk, R&B, funk, Afropop, and rock into a bold, uncompromising hybrid all her own. Garbus is blessed with an extraordinary voice, and she wields it with great confidence, always coming off in total control of her phrasing while seeming totally uninhibited in her expression. There's an authoritative quality to her voice she often sings with a commanding, fullbodied boldness, but even at her softest, Garbus sounds assertive and forthright. w h o k i l l, Garbus' second album as tUnEyArDs, delivers on the promise of her 2009 debut, BiRdBrAiNs. Unlike that album, which she recorded almost entirely on her own using a digital voice recorder and the sound editing program Audacity, w h o k i l l was mostly made in traditional studios in collaboration with bassist Nate Brenner, engineer Eli Crews, and a handful of other musicians. The music benefits from the increased professionalism, but Garbus has not abandoned her lofi aesthetic. As on BiRdBrAiNs, Garbus layers sound to create a patchwork of contrasting textures. This time around, the greater clarity allows for more exaggerated dynamics. This is most apparent in \"Gangsta\", a carefully arranged track that evokes danger and fear with bluntly abbreviated blasts of horn noise and sounds that cut in and out erratically like a set of headphones with a busted wire or a cell phone that can't hold its signal. On the opposite end of the spectrum, she creates an almost unsettling intimacy on \"Wooly Wolly Gong\" by mixing the ambient hum of room sound with closely mic'd arpeggiated chords and vocals. Brenner's presence on bass is the biggest difference between w h o k i l l and BiRdBrAiNs. His style is loose and jazzy, with fluid, melodic lines that add dimension to Garbus' compositions. She sounded so isolated on BiRdBrAiNs, but suddenly her music is like a conversation, with Brenner's parts bouncing off her voice and rhythms like thoughtful banter. He brings a janky funk to \"Esso\", a zippy groove to \"Bizness\", and a delicate weight to the airy \"Doorstep\". On \"Powa\", his lead lines slink around Garbus' slomo rock riff as if in a subliminal duet with her expressive vocal performance. That song builds steadily over the course of five minutes until it reaches a stunning climax in which Brenner's bass bounces gently as Garbus hits a glorious high note like a feral Mariah Carey. Throughout w h o k i l l, Garbus confronts thorny issues of race, gender, body image, and privilege in ways that are pointed but nuanced. She mostly sticks to personal narratives, suggesting big ideas and complex tensions in her subtext while emphasizing the urgency of small moments and concrete details. She's most direct in the opening cut \"My Country\", in which she wrestles with guilt over her own privilege, but she's more thoughtprovoking when in murkier, more ambiguous territory, like when she sings about a sexual fantasy involving the brutal cop who arrested her brother in \"Riotriot\" or when she wonders aloud why she does not have more black male friends at the end of \"Killa\". Garbus is particularly fascinated by violence; most of the tracks on w h o k i l l deal with power struggles that arise from inequity and lead to further cruelty and injustice. Her lighter moments are still quite complicated she playfully wrestles with negative body image in \"Esso\", while that same lingering disgust and selfdoubt brings a moving subtext to \"Powa\", an ode to a lover who can get her to momentarily let go of stress and insecurities. Back in 1983 Sonic Youth's Kim Gordon wrote an essay for Art Forum that suggested that when we go to rock performances, we pay to see other people believe in themselves. A lot of what makes w h o k i l l and tUnEyArDs' excellent live performances so compelling is the degree to which Garbus commits to her ideas and displays a total conviction in her personal, idiosyncratic, highstakes music. This, in and of itself, is very inspiring and empowering. This unguarded, individualistic expression encourages strong identification in listeners, so don't be surprised if this record earns Garbus a very earnest and intense cult following. "}