{"label":" Fat Possum","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16434/homepage_large.41d8137b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Sonny and the Sunsets","title":"Hit After Hit","text":" The ridiculously fertile San Francisco garagepop scene is full of people who crank out vast amounts of music and who sound like they're having fun doing it. And much of the time, Sonny Smith seems to be making more music and having more fun than anyone else. About a year ago, his band Sonny and the Sunsets released the sweet, inventive album Tomorrow Is Alright, and Smith then followed it up with his \"100 Records\" art installation, in which he wrote and recorded an absurd 200 songs for 100 fictional bands. While he was at it, he issued an EP for one of those fake bands, Earth Girl Helen Brown. And now, after that furious burst of activity, we get the Sunsets' sophomore album. That's LilWaynein2006 levels of productivity.But Smith never sounds like someone rushing to crank out literally hundreds of songs. His songs have an enormously appealing loose, homespun quality muffled, refracted, selfaware takes on the starryeyed, innocent sounds you hear coming from oldies radio. Smith's voice is warm and laconic; you can practically hear a goofy stoner grin on his face a lot of the time. He allows himself a few guitar solos, but unless the song is an instrumental, he likes to keep them to three seconds or less. A lot of the fun in his records is hearing him interact with his backing vocals wordless oohahh harmonies on some songs, equally flat female interjections on others. The whole thing sounds like something they could've bashed out in a long afternoon, killing time waiting for a midnight screening of Rock 'n' Roll High School.This, then, is simple, lowstakes music, but it's simple and lowstakes music done extremely well, with clever touches that don't always reveal themselves on first listen. Plenty of tiny instrumental flourishes show just how deeply Smith and his band have studied their oldiesradio fare: The lightly tribal floortom rumbles on \"She Plays Yoyo With My Mind\"  , the nifty little surfguitar riffage on \"Home and Exile  \", the heartbroken jangle on \"Pretend You Love Me\". And Smith has a lyrical mischievousness about him, too. One line on \"Don't Act Dumb\" sums up four decades of lovesick garagerock frustration in a few words: \"I'm in love, love with you baby/ I am dumb and so are you.\" And \"Teenage Thugs\" has to be one of the first punk songs in history that doesn't identify with juvenile corner toughs but with the grown adult weenies who are afraid of them.Many of Smith's defining qualities his selfdeprecating lyrics, his easy way with melody, his ability to make bashedout and idiosyncratic music out of ancient forms of pop unites him with another wave of Bay Area bands. In Smith, I hear a lot of the Bay Area poppunk of the early 90s bands like the Mr. T Experience, Samiam, even very early Green Day. And like MTX frontman Dr. Frank, he knows how to convey confusedteenager feelings in smart, adult ways. With Hit After Hit, he's made 11 more charming and knowingly primitive bursts of sunny fuzz. He's got plenty more left in him. And as much fun as it could be to watch him grow as an artist, part of me hopes he stays his lane and keeps making these sugary jangles forever. "}