{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16431/homepage_large.88c3beaa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Starfucker","title":"Reptilians","text":" It's been four years since the surprising commercial success of MGMT's Oracular Spectacular, and a steady stream of vaguely pysch, synthloving bands continues to flow from that record's neon wake. In the corner of higher aspirations, you have Columbiasigned freshfacers Foster the People, whose labelmate status with MGMT gives off a bit of a \"the calls are coming from inside the house\" feeling. Portland synthpoppers Starfucker, on the other hand, have been doing the spacey headband thing for almost as long as MGMT have (or, more accurately, were) and, yet, it proves difficult to resist comparison. Their 2008 selftitled debut had the same shoddy, indevelopment synthy sound that many of us heard from those Wesleyan boys when their Time to Pretend EP was circulating around 2005; on Starfucker's sophomore effort, Reptilians, there are a few moments (the drum sounds on opening track \"Born\", the mortalityquestioning nature of \"Death as a Fetish\") where that influence is extended to MGMT's forebears, the Flaming Lips. To dismiss Reptilians and Starfucker's general style, by extension as the result of wellexecuted pastiche would be ignoring that, believe it or not, it's actually a pretty good album. The sonic fidelity here is about a million times better than that of their debut an improvement no doubt abetted by the band's jump to recoveringbutstillfighting indie Polyvinyl. What you're getting here: a fair amount of intricate synth work paired with catchy altindie melodies that would fit in perfectly as transitional music to almost any show on the CW. At times, the former can overshadow the latter minus some blaring MIDI'dtodeath horns, the twinkling tunnel of \"Bury Us Alive\" is the kind of rabbit hole that bands like Bear in Heaven should think about heading down more often. They clearly demonstrate the capability to make \"hits,\" too; the anthemic ascent of \"Julius\" and \"Mystery Cloud\" seem like the kind of stuff that, for better and for worse, would get stuck near the top of the Hype Machine or elbo.ws charts for a while. There's something innately appealing to the best of this band's melodies whatever it is almost completely lacks originality, granted, but it's hard not to see the small promises hidden within this record's modest highlights. Whatever goodwill that gets built up in the record's enjoyably familiar first half is slowly chipped away at during its back end. As a whole, Reptilians is 41 minutes long not exactly as bad as listening to 2112 three times in a row or anything, but the running time on this thing nonetheless feels like a slog. A glut of midtempo dithering mostly takes up the second half, and while some of the songs situated there are decent on their own, together they congeal into an asymmetrical mess, exposing Reptilians' frontloaded wiring. Oh, and another thing: This band's name sucks and I say this in an era of truly terrible, rollyoureyesuntilyoudie monikers. With a band name like Police Academy 6 or Nid and Sancy, though, you get the idea that they're in on the joke too, an enjoyably stupid public selfprank that makes for good conversation at the least. Naming your band Starfucker, on the other hand, seems like an action on the level of cursing around your friends for the first time in grade school it's blunt, and it might get a laugh or two, but it's strictly juvenile. It's almost as if they picked the name to dare people to listen to their record. Seeing as how they're still a ways away from being anything more than a blog concern, I'm not too sure the gambit is working. "}