{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16442/homepage_large.ee4f578c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Daedelus","title":"Bespoke","text":" The term \"bespoke\" refers to the detailoriented process of making custommade clothing; it's also the name of the new fulllength from Los Angelesbased electronic veteran Alfred Darlington, aka Daedelus. Excluding the man's sartorial fixations, the name seems like an ill fit. Throughout his decadelong career, he's been seemingly averse to the process of tightening and selfediting, instead choosing to stuff every idea that pops into his head into misshapen, often uninteristing bursts of sound. As a result, his discography is less impressive for its breadth (at least 10 fulllengths and countless more EPs in 10 years) than it is for its lack of a single coherent, enjoyably listenable statement. At this point, it's understandable if folks interested in the sort of experimentalleaning music that Darlington trades in have simply left him be, assuming he would never make an album worth listening to more than once. It's a pleasant surprise, then, that Darlington's made his first truly decentsounding album with Bespoke. Thematically, the record takes a few cues from cosmopolitan house and stuttering techno figures, but anyone walking in from off the street (or a club floor) expecting a danceleaning record might as well turn back around; this is a Daedelus record, which means \"form\" and \"unification\" are dirty words around these parts. The whole thing is an enjoyable mess, and when this record is really cooking, listening to it has the pleasurable effect of someone messing with a radio dial. Save for beatscene wunderkind Baths' misguidedly lowkey and maudlin take on \"French Cuffs\", the guests that have been rounded up add personality to the schizophonic stew. Bilal, the Bird and the Bee's Inara George, and multiinstrumentalist Amir Yaghmai (monikered here as Young Dad) deliver heartily in the case of the first two, their voices slightly outshine the material they're layered over. It's fastrapping abstractionist Busdriver, however, who really steals the show with a disarmingly crooned delivery on \"What Can You Do?\". The last time Bus and Dae teamed up was for 2003's The Weather, a sporadically interesting mess of broken beats and oversyllabication; comparatively, Busdriver sounds smooth and free here, riding alongside the track's cabseattechno melodic stabs and jazzy flourishes. As if Darlington simply couldn't help himself, there are moments of overindulgence on Bespoke that veer close to selfsabotage; the jarring drum breaks on \"One and Lonely\" severely disrupt the song's monastic solitude. The insanely repetitive, previously mentioned game show horns on \"Sew, Darn, Mend\", on the other hand, sound like the result of a \"Press Your Luck\" contestant futilely shouting \"No Whammy!\" after the cameras stop rolling. Overall, though, Bespoke is a rare success for Darlington, and it couldn't have come at a better time. For the last year and change, the increased recognition of folks within L.A.'s beat scene has come with cosigns thrown in his direction: Flying Lotus released Darlington's last effort, last year's Righteous Fists of Harmony EP, on his Brainfeeder imprint, and Darlington's mentorlike position in Baths' career breakthrough established his position as a tastemaking listener. Now, he finally has some good music of his own attached to his name. It may or may not be enough to catch up to the rapidly accelerating talents of his younger peers but it's certainly a start. "}