{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16455/homepage_large.cf096c0a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"Jonny","title":"Jonny","text":" Jonny is Norman Blake and Euros Childs, two 90s indie rock lifers with very different songwriting styles. Childs, whose psychedelic outfit, Gorky's Zygotic Mynci, called it quits five years ago, has continued to churn out similarly charming, distinctly unpredictable pop songs under his own name since. He's your wild card. Blake, whose vocal harmonies and melodic skillset you may have heard by way of his work in Teenage Fanclub, has been equally active over the years, though rarely on his own. He's a glue guy. Together they form what can (in certain circles) be loosely termed as a supergroup. But Jonny, their first fulllength as a duo, doesn't approach that construct with much of a straight face. Although they've played and recorded together in the past, here they sound as though they're still finding out how to best combine their quirks. Take for instance pubrocking opener \"Wich is Wich\", a subtwominute boogie that functions more as curio than attentiongrabbing salvo. While the groove is sturdy, its relatively short length doesn't allow it to leave much of a dent at all. It feels instead like a song that never quite became a song. While you'll find equally, confusingly short scraps on the tail end of Jonny (see: the country shuffle of \"I'll Make Her My Best Friend\"), there's enough great songwriting at play here to make that kind of whambamontothenext approach all the more frustrating. On tape they can be just as good as they are on paper. The burble and harmonies of \"Candyfloss\" is proof of that. Merge, their label home, has hailed their union as \"the advent of an irresistibly infectious new strain of psychedelic pop.\" But Jonny retains the feel of old, familiar parts being slapped together to form something old and familiar. There's a good reason why these two have followings on their own. Euros Childs' stamp on these songs is particularly strong, his Welshaccented vocal tics and corkscrewing organ flourishes much more obtrusive in the mix than Blake's far more palatable contributions. In fact, the latter's longdeveloped ear for vocal harmonies is responsible for not only smoothing a lot of Jonny's edges, but also corralling his bandmate for some genuinely beautiful vocal performances. It's not difficult to discern who penned what throughout, but like the aforementioned \"Candyfloss\" (also, \"English Lady\" and \"Circling the Sun\" and \"The Goodnight\" and \"Never Alone\" and so on), Blake's gilded harmony arrangements lend a muchneeded constant to an affair that sheds its skin from track to track. Aside from two very melodically inclined minds joining forces, what spurs Jonny to succeed in its own strange way is the audible heart and enthusiasm with which they try everything here. Sandwiched between what sound to be two more experiments in need of more time, \"Cave Dance\" is an experiment that drones on for 11 minutes. Eleven. From redblooded rock circus to synth dream to Fleetwood Macindebted krautrock coda, it goes on and on and on. They're having so much fun. "}