{"label":" Constellation","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16458/homepage_large.277d28a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Tindersticks","title":"Claire Denis Film Scores 1996-2009","text":" \"Cinematic\" is a difficult adjective to avoid when discussing the music of Tindersticks. The band's moodiness, use of orchestration, and tendency toward restraint punctuated by brief moments of overload all lend their music a filmlike quality. Some of their songs even feel like short movies, telling stories not just through lyrics, but also through the motion of the music. The Nottingham, England, band isn't wellknown in the United States, and probably won't ever be. Something about them scans as very European, their casual blend of jazz, lounge, soul, rock, and noise conjuring the intellect, elegance, and lurking seediness of café society. The cinema in their sound is more art house than blockbuster. That their music blends well with the vision of French filmmaker Claire Denis is not very surprising. Denis has a visual style that likes to breathe, featuring lots of wide shots and a patient way of framing her subjects. Denis was born in Paris but grew up for much of her childhood in Colonial Africa, spending time in Burkina Faso, Somalia, Senegal, and Cameroon. Her films, including Chocolat, Beau Travail, 35 Rhums and White Material, often deal with the intersection of European and African culture and interests, centering on French characters born in Africa or Europeans living in former colonies. Tindersticks have scored six of her 10 features, including the last five, and those six scores are collected on this boxed set. Only two, 1996's Nénette Et Boni and 2001's Trouble Every Day, have been released on CD before. Nénette Et Boni was the band's first foray into soundtrack work. The band met Denis backstage after a show in Paris, and she asked if she could use \"My Sister\", a song from the band's second album, in her next film. The band instead offered to do an original score. Rather that producing specific, timed cues as most modern film composers do, the band worked more the way Pink Floyd did when they wrote scores for Michelangelo Antonioni and Barbet Schroeder in 1969, composing pieces of music that fit the mood and flow of Denis' footage. One of these is basically an instrumental version of \"My Sister\", and Denis used the album version of \"Tiny Tears\" in the film as well, but the rest is a strange and slightly intoxicating loungejazz score characterized mostly by prominent, repetitive basslines and wandering vibraphone, piano, and organ textures. Though all but two of these scores predate the breakup of the band's original sixpiece lineup, Nénette is the only one to future the whole original band. In the wake of 1997's Curtains LP, Tindersticks put together a sampler called Marks Moods (marks is a verb here, not a name) and sent it around to film producers, hoping to scare up more film work, but this effort apparently came to naught, and the band's next soundtrack found them working with Denis again on the score for 2001's Trouble Every Day, a dark and disturbing film about, in Denis' words, \"how a kiss becomes a bite.\" To put it less artfully, it's about sexual cannibalism, but Tindersticks being Tindersticks, they've avoided translating the onscreen violence into the music. The opening title theme, the only vocal song on this whole set aside from \"Tiny Tears\", is masterfully icy, the kind of spare, stately song that this band does better than anyone. Even with a full string section and band, the song sounds empty at its core the longer reprise for the closing title, featuring violinist Dickon Hinchliffe in duet with Stuart Staples, is even better. The rest of this score explains as well as anything why this set is not for beginners. First of all, a big part of the band's appeal is Staples' voice, and it is barely heard across these five discs. But more importantly, it is soundtrack music, and as such it's not really meant to stand on its own, and it often doesn't. Some tracks take musical chiaroscuro to an extreme, surrounding little patches of music with inky nothingness. It's effective with visuals, but less so on a CD. This is, of course, something every soundtrack album struggles with to an extent, but any listener coming into this should know not to expect full albums worth of fully developed songs, instrumental or otherwise. That said, if you're a devoted fan of the band (of course you are, if you're even thinking about owning this), it does offer an interesting parallel portrait of a great band and some engaging music. The third disc, which is split between Dickon Hinchliffe's solo score for Vendredi Soir and Stuart Staples' solo score for L'Intrus, is probably the one best suited to active listening all the way through. Hinchliffe's glassy, stringdominated score feels as though it's being pulled from the air, and the experience of writing this score outside the band ultimately prompted him to leave and devote himself fulltime to soundtracks he's since scored Winter's Bone and several other films. Staples goes another direction entirely for L'Intrus, which is the most strident and discordant of all the scores. Working with drummer Thomas Belhom and frequent collaborator Terry Edwards on trumpet, Staples really digs into his guitar and creates a foreboding, unnervingly static score. The original sextet played its final show in 2006, and the final two scores are crafted by the Tindersticks, Mk II Staples, original keyboardist David Boulter, original guitarist Neil Fraser, and a set of younger new members. 2008's 35 Rhums (a rhum is a shot of rum), features occasional Ondes Martenot played by guest Christine Ott, and its opening title theme is the brightest piece of music here by far, featuring a sunny melodica part that's oddly reminiscent of XTC's \"Summer's Cauldron\". The score is a sharp contrast to White Material, which fairly drips with dread. The opening title sequence isn't so much a theme as a lurching sequence of widely spaced, bloodcurdling string phrases. The film is set in Africa and features child soldiers the band's theme for this child army is a gentle flute melody set against menacing, droning strings. \"Andre's Death\" is one of the most fullydeveloped pieces on the set, blowing up from a harmonium part into a postrock thing with fractured guitar arcing over the top. I'd actually like to hear the band develop some of the White Material music into songs on a future album, because there are a lot of good musical ideas lurking in the score. That's not likely. Tindersticks seem content to keep their soundtrack work separate from their other recording, even if that cinematic quality still carries over to their albums. This box, with its extensive notes that offer a narrative history of the band's work with Denis, is a nicely assembled and welcome addition to the Tindersticks discography. It's not a casual purchase, but the band's most dedicated fans and soundtrack heads will be thankful for its creation. "}