{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16468/homepage_large.ed575255.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"The High Llamas","title":"Talahomi Way","text":" Head High Llama Sean O'Hagan recently mused on his working methods and storied career in a podcast. For someone entering his fourth decade of making underground music, the singer found reallife pressures had forced him to put his main band on the back burner. The interview reveals that his natural talent as an arranger allowed him to keep working in music in some capacity, but those long stretches between High Llamas albums aren't going to be getting shorter any time soon. The last time he released a fulllength recording with the band was with the 2007 release Can Cladders, which worked chirpy soul and R&B influences into the core High Llamas template. O'Hagan spends a decent amount of time talking about Brian Wilson during that podcast, and he seems to be at peace with the fact that the band's base sound is essentially a refraction of Beach Boys dreaminess circa \"Cabinessence\". On Talahomi Way he's subtly twisted the High Llamas' aesthetic once again. It again feels like O'Hagan has rifled through his record collection and immersed their sound in its esoteric element. It's led to an uneven career, with the band often sounding like they're slotting parts of a puzzle together (Martin Dennystyle exotica, 90s Warpesque electronica, etc.) but struggling to form a solid identity of their own beyond those basic ingredients. Here, they've erred toward the tender \"Bach Ze\"style side of their sound for the duration of a short record that again highlights their strengths and weaknesses. It's incredibly tasteful and somewhat filmic at times, with the brief bursts of strings on tracks like \"Woven and Rolled\" and  the lush harp of \"To the Abbey\" resembling the soundtrack to a sumptuous Technicolor melodrama. \"Fly Baby, Fly\" sounds directly extracted from 70s AM radio. O'Hagan calls this a spring album, and with good reason. The songs have a supple weightlessness to them. It feels like the first crack of the sun's rays after months of grey skies. Additionally, one of the weakest components of the High Llamas' sound O'Hagan's wholegrain vocals is significantly dampened by some wellplaced multipart harmonies and several instrumental tracks. At times it lapses into unwelcome pastiche; the rustic harmonica on \"A Rock in May\" could be ripped from the soundtrack to the longrunning CBS snoozefest \"The Waltons\". The standout track, the opening \"Berry Adams\", seems to have been politely set at the start of the running order to get it out of the way in case it actually grabs someone's attention. In it, O'Hagan weaves a tale of a workingman down on his luck and with crushed dreams in mind, while a string arrangement that will sound instantly familiar to anyone who has followed his career blooms up around him. From there it's a pleasant amble through the rest of the record, which carries a dainty air partly shaped by the exclusion of intrusive drum patterns on most of the songs. The preponderance of long instrumental passages suggests O'Hagan is acutely aware of both his shortcomings as a songwriter and his strengths as an arranger. \"Wander, Jack Wander\" is set in motion by some delightfully parping trumpets and beautifully filmy strings, while \"Angel Connector\" is a slight return to his Turn Onstyle attraction to analog circuitry. Those two tracks, both entirely instrumental, find a little more space to breathe than the vocalheavy passages elsewhere on Talahomi Way. Perhaps with a stronger singer and lyricist this band may have gained more momentum throughout its career, but it's unlikely that's what O'Hagan has ever had in mind. He seems perfectly content to let these smallwonder songs shuffle out unobtrusively into the world, and it's come to feel like a comforting spot to return to every couple of years or so. "}