{"label":" the council","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16465/homepage_large.455dd6b5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Del the Funky Homosapien","title":"Golden Era","text":" Del the Funky Homosapien's always gone his own way. After all, here's a guy who was set to become a pop star in the early 1990s with the playful proto gfunk of 1991's I Wish My Brother George Was Here. A guy who then purposely abandoned that trajectory in order to burrow deep into the underground with Oakland's Hieroglyphics crew. Who then came back at the peak of indie rap's turnofthemillennium popularity with Deltron 3030 and Gorillaz, two of the era's biggest crossover smashes. And who's still here, putting out oldschool underground hiphop albums built on furious rhymes and gorgeous understated beats, like the three collected here on Golden Era, including one new record and two previously Internetonly releases. That doggedness about sticking to oldschool ideals might be the most surprising thing about Del. After the success of Gorillaz, he could have easily taken another shot at stardom, or at least had a profitable run doing rock guest spots and Adult Swim projects. This kind of dizzyingly intricate indie rap the kind that values density and nimbleness of flow more than Odd Future shock appeal or Lil B's excesses of personality or the big blustery knockyouonyourass hooks of Waka Flocka Flame is more of an underground phenomenon than ever before. Del's commitment to wild but technically tight rapping pegs him as a survivor from the days when virtuosity was a virtue. He's sure not interested in crooning his own R&B choruses, even tongueincheek, to help him get anywhere near the radio. That's not to say Del's just a technician pursuing perfection. He's always had one of the most immediately magnetic voices in rap, and it's grown even more commanding as it's deepened with age. Del's got the stentorian bluntforce impact of a guy who cut his teeth on early gangsta, sweetened with the inimitable West Coast drawl, but he's nimble the way indie rappers once were as a rule in order to put this many words across in four minutes or less. He can do bouncearound enthusiasm and a stoner simmer with equal ease. About the only downside is that this much gohardorgohome rhyming can be a little wearying after almost two and a half hours of music. In 10 or 12track chunks, as these records were individually conceived, it's powerful, funny stuff, all without numbing you out. Musically there's almost enough variety to counteract any flow fatigue, especially if you miss the days when underground rap meant Rawkus rather than Gucci mixtapes. How many DatPiff downloads have you listened to lately that still found creative ways to flip breakbeats? Or that featured awesome Bomb Squad style horn squeals instead of synthesizer ooze? Or brought back the late 90s scifi menace of Company Flow/AntiPop Consortium/Divine Styler? Or just wallowed in the mellow shimmering soul that used to define West Coast rap? All of which is to say that, yes, the three discs of Golden Era are a zone of throwback pleasures. It's a chance to listen to one of rap's best voices run on, with breathless speed and breathtaking control, over the kind of effortlessly funky beats that sadly don't get much attention in certain quarters these days. That may put Del at odds with the \"mainstream\" (whatever that is in 2011) more than ever before, but he's still here, and for that we should be thankful. "}