{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16473/homepage_large.a93fd5a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Of Montreal","title":"thecontrollersphere EP","text":" At the end of \"Faberge Falls For Shuggie\", a song from Of Montreal's excellent 2007 album Hissing Fauna, Are You the Destroyer?, Kevin Barnes sings a string of phrases that would become the titles of his next three releases: Skeletal Lamping, False Priest, and now, thecontrollersphere. This suggests a thematic connection between these records, or at least some kind of grand plan. If this unorthodox way of announcing future projects is indeed a meaningful thing, it may also be significant that, whereas Skeletal Lamping and False Priest arrived as fulllength works complete with their own distinct quirks and visual iconography, thecontrollersphere is a set of leftovers from the False Priest sessions. Though its tone is very different from False Priest, the deckclearing nature of this EP hints that Barnes may be eager to complete this arc and move on to something else. \"Black Lion Massacre\", the EP's opening track, is the best indication of Barnes' creative restlessness. It's a fiveminute noise rock dirge; deliberately unpleasant and violent in its attack. Prior to the release of False Priest, Barnes had mentioned in some interviews that he had wanted to make music that was ugly and visceral; this song is almost certainly the product of this impulse. As much as it is different from the band's established psychedelic funk style, its monologue about a horrific sexual ritual is firmly rooted in the erudite freakiness of Barnes' last few records. \"Black Lion Massacre\" also foregrounds a darkness and rage that was buried just beneath the surface of the False Priest material. It sounds like an exhausting catharsis. The remainder of thecontrollersphere hews closer to the sound of False Priest. \"Flunkt Sass vs. the Root Plume\" echoes the melodrama of False Priest's \"Casualty of You\" and the more despairing tangents on Skeletal Lamping, and in the sequence serves as a mournful coda to the devastation of \"Black Lion Massacre\". It's effective and moving, but not the finest example of Barnes' work in this mode. \"Slave Translator\" and \"L'age D'or\" have less spark decent, mildly funky tracks that hit their mark but sound very much like outtakes. The keeper here is \"Holiday Call\", which starts off in the agitated funk vein of other songs from the False Priest era but concludes with an inspired extended instrumental outro with Middle Easternaccented strings. Like \"Black Lion Massacre\", this section is a departure for the band, though its graceful, melodic sound feels like a more natural progression from where Of Montreal have gone on their last few albums. \"Holiday Call\" and \"Black Lion Massacre\" aren't among Barnes' best songs, but they are bold and show that he's an artist who is eager to challenge himself rather than stick to what has become a very successful formula. Hopefully the next full Of Montreal record will find the band continuing on in this adventurous direction. "}