{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16474/homepage_large.0cb1ffa3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Fleet Foxes","title":"Helplessness Blues","text":" Fleet Foxes' unpretentious, crowdpleasing directness was the key to their rapid rise. Their Sun Giant EP and selftitled debut LP, both released in 2008, brimmed with inviting melodies, evocative lyrics, and openarmed harmonizing that seemed designed to reach a wide variety of listeners. Their bright folkrock sound wasn't exactly \"cool,\" but that was sort of the point it's familiar in the most pleasing way, lacking conceit or affectation. Their expression of their love for music (and making music) was refreshing three years ago, and that sort of thing never gets old. But clouds inevitably roll in. On the band's followup, Helplessness Blues, the mood is darker and more uncertain, adding shade to their goldhued sound. The change in tone reflects the tumultuous road Fleet Foxes traveled during the album's creation. In late 2009, Fleet Foxes had an album's worth of songs ready, but the tracks were mostly scrapped before mixing. The arduous creative process took a toll on the group members, particularly singer/songwriter Robin Pecknold, who told Pitchfork at the time, \"The last year has been a really trying creative process where I've not been knowing what to write or how to write.\" The group's persistence paid off, though: Helplessness Blues is comparatively deeper, more intricate, and more complex, a triumphant followup to a blockbuster debut. Working again with producer Phil Ek, they've crafted a cavernous record that allows more room for them to breathe and stretch. The album's longer, episodic cuts contain disquieting shifts in tone. \"The Plains/Bitter Dancer\", for example, begins as a spindly, psychedelic folk tune reminiscent of some of the Zombies' more introspective moments, and then, after a brief pause, bursts suddenly into the type of gangland chorus Fleet Foxes have practically trademarked by now. Elsewhere, shorter songs seem to end midthought; the rollicking tumble of \"Battery Kinzie\" cuts off suddenly, while \"Sim Sala Bim\"'s heavystrummed raga quickly unfurls like broken strings. This battle between tension and serenity is new to the band's repertoire, and it lends the album a compelling uneasiness that starkly contrasts the sunnier disposition of their first two releases. The group harmonies that flowed from Fleet Foxes are in shorter supply here, employed largely to embellish tracks, allowing Pecknold to take a clearer lead role, both vocally and lyrically. He first emerged as an impressionistic songwriter, but he's since become stronger and more descriptive, conjuring vivid imagery of men striking matches on suitcase latches and pennyladen fountains. Mostly, he spends time working out his own personal puzzles, pondering the big questions of existence and meditating on the dissolution of his fiveyear relationship during one of Helplessness Blues' more difficult creative periods. The record reflects his determination to deal with the present while leaving the past behind. At times, Pecknold's voice takes an aggressive tone, as on the eightminute breakup saga \"The Shrine/An Argument\"; other times, it cracks slightly, exposing his pain on the bittersweet \"Lorelai\". But the warmth is there. On the album's most intimate track, \"Someone You'd Admire\", he contemplates the contradictory impulses to love and to destroy, accompanied by spare harmony and softly strummed guitar. Pecknold confronts more universal concerns as well, starting with \"Montezuma\"'s memorable albumopening lines: \"So now, I am older/ Than my mother and father/ When they had their daughter/ Now, what does that say about me?\" He wrestles throughout the record with his own measurements of success, and whether any of it adds up to anything. He asks questions only to come up with more questions, and they all lead into a sort of resolution on the album's title track, \"Helplessness Blues\". Here, he retreats from the world into idyllic, pastoral imagery and wishes for a simpler life before trying to come to grips with his newfound renown. \"Someday I'll be like the man on the screen,\" he promises at the end of the song. Helplessness Blues' analytical and inquisitive nature never tips into selfindulgence. Amidst the chaos, the record showcases the band's expanded range and successful risktaking, while retaining what so many people fell in love with about the group in the first place. And once again, a strong sense of empathy is at the heart of what makes Fleet Foxes special. Much has been made of American indie's recent obsession with nostalgic escapism, but Robin Pecknold doesn't retreat. He confronts uncertainty while feeling out his own place in the world, which is something a lot of us can relate to. "}