{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1525/homepage_large.4000170a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Coldcut","title":"Sound Mirrors","text":" Coldcut were incredibly overrated. Past tense is critical here because the moment in which Coldcut were feted feels like a hundred million years ago now. Concepts like triphop, turntablism, etc., aren't quite past tense enough to stir warm feelings of nostalgia. They're \"what the fuck were we thinking?\" ideas in 2006, and no one wants to listen to records that give them the feeling of looking at old photos of themselves with bad haircuts and stupid clothes. Sure, no genre is completely devoid of good ideas or even, more importantly, good records but there's a landfill full of \"abstract beats\" out there that no one's stepped up to reclaim. If you want a real laugh, read the second half of the Rough Guide to Drum and Bass devoted to big beat/downtempo. What the fuck were we thinking?So, while, yes, better than the bulk of their Ninja Tuneaffiliated peers, Coldcut were not as good as we once believed. That Eric B and Rakim remix that Eric B and Rakim hated it's really not that great, is it? I'd rather listen to \"Pump Up the Volume\" than \"Beats and Pieces\" for my kitschy sampladelic single fix. And while concepts like multimedia and chopping up the history of recorded music seemed like not just a good idea at the time but the very future itself, information overload isn't an exciting concept in 2006, it just is. (Plus their Journeys by DJ record is the most overrated DJ mix of all time.) So credit them for getting there first, but don't flog pioneer status to tell me why I should listen to the records.Sound Mirrors isn't a cutandpaste DJ record per se, but it's constructed in the same way. Instead of slamming chunks of disparate records together via sampler or turntable, they wrangle a few albums' worth of guest stars and hop from genre to genre like Q*Bert. (The video game sprite, not the Skratch Pikl. At least I think so.) \"Walk a Mile\" tries on the shimmering fabric of smooth, gauzy deep house, complete with vocals from the original voice of postcoital, outerspace ennui, Robert Owens. Saul Williams hectors \"Mr. Nichols\" from an era where we thought poetry slams and poetry slams on rap records were a good idea, and \"This Island Earth\" reminds you just how hard people worked the thin concept of a female singer over a midtempo rap beat in the late90s. If you've ever wanted to hear Jon Spencer and Mike Ladd on the same track, Sound Mirrors is for you, and the pairing, or even just the concept of the pairing, will tell you whether or not you need to hear it. Coldcut acquit themselves well, in the sense that they pull off all of their various generic sleights of hand. But, as per usual, whatever offhand virtuosity Sound Mirrors displays, there's no center here. No one likes a showoff. "}