{"label":" EMI / Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1526/homepage_large.1db5227a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Coldplay","title":"A Rush of Blood to the Head","text":" Though my hopes were briefly raised by a frazzled Christopher Lloyd in 1985, it's painfully obvious now that time travel doesn't exist as a human technological capability. This being overwhelmingly the case, I will try my best to transport with words, and paint a picture of another time a time ever so slightly more innocent, when terrorism wasn't being used as an excuse to crush civil liberties and drop bombs on mustachioed megalomaniacs. So, drag that bottle of Orbitz out of the back of the closet, put XFiles on the VHS, and journey back with me to the year 2000. It was a wondrous time we were still fascinated by the three zeros that had signified the birth of the new millennium, and many were relieved to have escaped judgment from an infinite, intangible being. Then, toward the end of the year, we began to hear rumblings from the manyheaded hydra of UK rock journalism that some amazing new music had come to usher us into the New World. This music was deemed fascinating, uncompromising and utterly prizeworthy by our English brethren, who spoke in hushed tones of how it was to be the coming of \"the next Radiohead,\" or perhaps more tellingly, \"the next Travis.\" This new music was produced by a band of four affable bluecollar lads from Europe's island neighbor who called themselves Coldplay, and before you knew it, there was no escaping their leadoff single, \"Yellow\", as it burned itself into the national consciousness via extensive radio exposure and ABC promotional spots. I, myself, was never too taken with that single, though I openly admit to enjoying the album it was culled from, Parachutes. It was innocuous, to be sure, but it was also honestly rendered, and the opening three songs, effortless and hummable as they were, were hard to deny. Two years and a veritable avalanche of press later, A Rush of Blood to the Head has Coldplay taking a second shot at it, and to be perfectly honest, what they throw at the wall doesn't stick quite as well. I will credit them where it's due: they've admirably eschewed cloning their debut album, a path that would have been all too easy to take given that record's critical and commercial success. But while the sound of this album is more expansive, the influences a bit less obvious, and the approach more varied, the guys forgot to tote along their initial strength: the songs. Atmospherically, a couple of these tracks are remarkable particularly \"Daylight\", with its swooping guitar and synth lines. Even its strings, which echo melodies from Suede's last album, lend a sense of drama to a song that otherwise wouldn't hold much. Midtempo nonrockers \"Green Eyes\" and \"Warning Sign\" stretch the most obvious thread back to Parachutes with their lovelorn lyrics and slightly more developed melodies. And there are also a couple of \"memo to listener: we can rock, too!\" moments, specifically \"A Whisper\" and the liteapocalypse of opener \"Politik\". The latter essentially takes the blueprint of \"Yellow\" namely, the slamming, repetitive strumming of clean electric guitar and builds a more spacious song from it, one with more rattle and hum, but less melodic substance. Martin's doubletracked vocals hover curiously low in the mix and the band thrashes earnestly, but all the listener really comes away with is a nebular dustcloud and the sense that Coldplay want to break out of their box. Part of the blame for moments like these rests on producer Ken Nelson, who doesn't seem to know what to do with the band's expanded sound this time out. He alternately dries up the quietest passages and drenches the louder sections with Martin Hannettsized reverb tides. It takes a lot of discretion to handle that sound, and the folly of Nelson and the band (who coproduced) often comes at the expense of the vocals, which frequently get lost in the haze. And that's a shame because vocalist Chris Martin has improved since the band's notsohumble beginnings his voice is dramatically fuller than in the past, and he falters less on the higher notes. But, of course, he's still far from foolproof: at times, his attempts to broaden his palette don't pan out, such as during the regrettable midsection of \"Clocks\", where he barely bothers to add a melody to the central lyric \"nothing else compares.\" To his credit, he does manage a pretty good verse melody here, but then he oddly shies away from what should be the hook at the end, tentatively trailing off as though he's not sure it's good enough. That could very well be the case, too, as it's been widely posited that Coldplay nearly didn't make this album at all, fearing that they didn't have the depth to provide an adequate followup to their debut. I'll avoid the obvious cheap shot there and instead offer that they indeed still might. Parachutes proved that Coldplay have at least a nascent songwriting capability, and A Rush of Blood to the Head shows them testing themselves musically, so it seems logical that if their third album were to combine those strengths they might finally start to sound like the band the UK press is always going on about. After over a halfdozen listens, I still haven't taken anything away from A Rush of Blood to the Head (by contrast, I recognized Parachutes' \"Don't Panic\" for the relatively tight song it is after hearing it once), and my girl, who was much more a fan of Parachutes than I was, sums it up as \"boring.\" She's pretty much got it right. Coldplay may claw their way back from this, but it'll be a pretty steep climb. "}