{"label":" Kora","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16501/homepage_large.58a1e7c9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Fredrik","title":"Flora","text":" The third album by the Swedish band Fredrik is cut from same cloth as Trilogi, their beguiling second release. They like finely textured guitars and electronics, quasiclassical embellishments, miniature clockwork percussion, and windy vocals placed high in the mix. Flora definitely has that Fredrik feel, which is like a Scandinavian Radiohead, or the Notwist at their duskiest. But while Trilogi was rooted in folk and triphop, Flora seems to take more cues from dance music, in its distant postrock way. The motif at the beginning of \"Rites of Spring\" passes within spitting distance of Culture Beat's \"Mr. Vain\", and you'll hear a greater emphasis on pittering snares, hand percussion, and arpeggiated synths than before. Where Trilogi was more focused on rococo leaps and hesitations, Flora draws out a stiffened pulse. The record opens with the kind of sonic foliage that was allowed to flourish more freely on Trilogi: \"Ylva\", where an otherworldly voice lifts out of chimes. But the first proper song, \"Vattenfront\", takes a crashing turn. Waves of horns course through a tight circuit of bass and snippy percussion, establishing a feintandattack pattern that carries on into the Knifelike \"Chrome Cavities\" and several other songs. This new approach is kind of a tradeoff. The downside is that the subtleties feel flatted by all the smoke and thunder; the upside is that some adrenaline pumps into Fredrik's eventempered sound. But a couple of the most unequivocally appealing songs clear out more space around the singing. On \"Inventress of Ill (and Everything)\", the kind of squeal that steamrolls some songs is relegated to a more helpful role, coloring a quiet melody in  the background. There's some room to breathe and sink into this pulse Fredrik are exploring. You want to lean in, rather than back. For all of its good qualities, it's hard to pinpoint what makes Flora a little less satisfying than Trilogi overall. I think it has to do with a certain softness that is diminished in favor of a chestbeating tone. Certainly, there are a few mechanical issues: Some songs that aim to trance out just wind up feeling repetitive, and more than once, I found myself wishing that whoever was banging on metal stuff so relentlessly would just cut it out. (\"The North Greatern\" combines both of these flaws.) But the real difference is that Trilogi earned and offset its more blustery moments with haunting respites like \"Milo\". While Flora exceeds Trilogi in pageantry, it never feels as effortless or humble as that little tune did the two qualities that distinguish Fredrik's best work from haughty postrock boilerplate. "}