{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16492/homepage_large.5a0f1e53.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Mick Harvey","title":"Sketches From the Book of the Dead","text":" It's been a long road to this point for Mick Harvey. He's been in bands since the mid1970s, and for 32 years was Nick Cave's chief officer, helping to define the sound of the Birthday Party and the Bad Seeds as a musical director, arranger, and multiinstrumentalist. He left the Bad Seeds in early 2009 for the usual reasons people leave bands at age 50 more time with family, simmering creative differences, and a general desire for change and control. From the 90s onward, Harvey has not lacked for work outside of Cave's sphere, working with PJ Harvey, producing other bands, writing soundtracks, and cutting solo albums, but Sketches From the Book of the Dead is his first solo album recorded without the safety net of any members of the Bad Seeds. It's also his first solo album to feature only songs composed by Harvey himself until now, he's focused mostly on other people's songs, including two full LPs of Englishlanguage Serge Gainsbourg covers. Harvey plays most of the instruments on the album, and it has the understated feel of a quiet and personal project, not unlike his last solo album, 2007's Two of Diamonds. In both his solo work and his work with Cave, Harvey has had plenty of experience with dusty murder ballads, and he creates a few of his own here, giving his doomed characters names and histories. The most fully fleshedout of these characters is the title character of \"The Ballad of Jay Givens\", whose story Harvey tells from the perspective of the son of Givens' best friend. In a twist on the murder ballad formula, Givens doesn't kill the narrator's father after the father steals Givens' wife he takes his own life instead, which somehow makes it much more tragic. Harvey keeps the song hushed and dark, his deep voice sometimes falling to a whisper. Aside from the uptempo closer, \"Famous Last Words\", that's the feel that prevails across the album icy piano and organ infuse nearly every song with a hanging sense of dread and impending fate. The album's atmospheric consistency is generally a plus, but it would work better if Harvey's songs had stronger melodies. The album's most memorable moments are mostly just that, parts of songs that stand out for the way they briefly change things up, such as the sudden, haunting swell at the end of \"Frankie T. & Frankie C.\". The best song on the album is the one that strings the most of these moments together: \"The Bells Never Rang\" has the strongest vocal melody on the album, combined with a good arrangement that constantly shifts intensity to pull you through. It's a tantalizing glimpse of how great solo Harvey can be, but unfortunately, a good deal of the rest of the album is simply unmemorable. "}