{"label":" E1","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16507/homepage_large.dc4ed4fd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"The U.N.","title":"Gunz n' Butta","text":" Cam'ron's debut album, Confessions of Fire, turns 13 this year. His commercial appeal and creative verve have dimmed over the years, but he's still an enormously influential figure; it's tough to imagine, say, how Lil Wayne might sound if Cam hadn't paved the way for gangsta rappers who pile up leftturn lyrical absurdities with audible glee. Given all his years in the game, his cultfavorite status, and his impact on the genre, it'd make a whole lot of sense for Cam'ron to do what most older rappers do: call in guestverse favors and play the mature, reflective elder statesman. But this is, after all, Cam'ron we're talking about. Even at this point, he'd rather kick assholish punchlines: \"Now I'm shaving coke/ On an amazing boat/ 'Fuck you, suck dick' I don't know what to say to folks.\" The second Cameron Giles figures out what to say to folks, he will cease being the Cam'ron we know. For the past couple of years, Cam's been pairing up with Vado, a younger Harlem dude with a husky, unstable energy in his voice that recalls past Cam proteges Juelz Santana and Jim Jones. In his own way, Vado's as much fun these days as Cam'ron is, even though his lines aren't nearly as quotable. Vado's got a great array of adlibs, which he yells constantly, and he attacks every beat like it owes him money. He and Cam make a good pair Cam laying back and making fun of you even as he threatens grievous bodily harm, Vado playing the eager and bloodthirsty henchman. Another relative newcomer, the MPCabusing producer AraabMuzik, handles most of the production, cranking out a succession of hard, simple beats that transform classical string fanfares and 1980s actionmovie soundtrack keyboards into utilitarian thuds. Araab's instrumentals can be dense, hectic things, but his beats here just get out of the way and give Cam and Vado room to go to work. No guests appear on Gunz n' Butta; Cam and Vado are the only rapping voices we hear. And they keep their focus narrow; they're not interested in doing much more than delivering an endless stream of amusingly worded fuckyouup threats. Lately, Cam's sounded most alive when he's indulging in goofy, oddly gentle relationship talk, as on the great recent single \"Girls Cry\". But \"Girls Cry\", for whatever reason, doesn't appear on the album, and a couple of halfassed love songs buried at the end are the only slight indications that we're dealing with threedimensional human beings here. Even their minorhit club tracks, last year's summer jam \"Speakin in Tungs\" and the more recent and stillcatchier \"Hey Muma\", only show up on the album after 11 tracks of amoral jokes. But the album works anyway because of Vado's energy and because Cam is still great at clowning people. Cam doesn't bring the same energy he had on the Diplomats' mid00s run of mixtapes or on Purple Haze, his 2004 masterpiece, but he's still perfectly capable of putting together a ridiculously strong verse. Even his dumbest lines are a whole lot of fun to repeat: \"You got some gay friends? Me, I got some lesbians/ And you ain't just a actor, you a thespian.\" There's just nobody else in rap who does deadpan silliness like that, and Cam makes it sound like the easiest thing in the world. There's nothing even the slightest bit innovative about Gunz n' Butta, but it does give us Cam, Vado, and Araab, three guys with great chemistry, doing what they do. It's a onedimensional affair, but that one dimension is pretty awesome. "}