{"label":" Hotflush","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16510/homepage_large.2a4a14f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Back and 4th","text":" After an initial burst of creativity, dubstep has splintered into a number of camps. There's \"brostep,\" of which nothing more need be said. Some artists took the \"dub\" mandate literally and constructed a world of midnight, alienated electronic music, best exemplified by the Hyperdub label. A third, diffuse group borrowed the movement's rhythmic syncopations and set upon exploring the vast stylistic implications of bass in electronic music. Some of the finest music in the latter camp has found a home on Paul Rose's UKbased Hotflush Recordings; Back and 4th is Hotflush's second label compilation, featuring a disc of unmixed hits of and another of new material from its stillsmall roster. The big names here will be recognizable to anyone paying a modicum of attention to UK electronic music: Mount Kimbie, Joy Orbison (now Joy O), and Untold all feature, as well as less prominent but still productive names like Scuba (Rose himself) and Pangaea. Hotflush's output has always felt warmer than their more claustrophobic peers, and Back and 4th is inviting full of bobbing, circular rhythms and august synths. On the whole, it's more immediate than Hyperdub's excellent (and similarly constructed) 5; the mood is glum and contemplative, but you won't need to uncrate your personal paranoia to best enjoy it. The hits disc cuts a limited swath through Hotflush's catalog, but it's a boon both to those who haven't diligently collected tracks like Mount Kimbie's \"Maybes (James Blake Remix)\" and Joy Orbison's \"Hyph Mngo\" and anyone who hasn't been replaying them faithfully. A homespun mix of ashy, melodic techno would hardly do better, and the slightest bit of hindsight reveals  that these tracks have as much in common with late 1990s Warp and, say, Tricky as anything that could rightfully be called dubstep. The disc of new material is a mixed bag. Thematically similar, the new tracks rely more heavily on corroded vocal samples and brisk tempos. Disappointingly, there's nothing fresh from Mount Kimbie, Untold, or Joy O. Instead, Hotflush showcases newer talent and signees, rolling out tracks from dBridge (an artist involved in the awesomely named Autonomic movement that purports to be reimagining drum and bass), FaltyDL (\"Regret\"'s widescreen arbors are a career highlight), and the promising George FitzGerald. Like Scuba's work, the new material leans heavily on deep house conventions: sturdy, insistent kick drums and lean, melodic hooks. Incyde's \"Axis\" and Boxcutter's \"LOADtime\" play like dance music set through a brush of heavy burrs, bristling and itching their way to release (a natural progression, perhaps, from Joy O's dense loops). The disc is a letdown only inasmuch as none of these tracks are likely to migrate to a \"hits\" disc on a theoretical future compilation. Not anchored by history, the new disc meanders. Hyperdub's equivalent compilation was a synthesis, something to rally around; Back and 4th promises something more a roster of expressionists redefining bass music but delivers less. Instead, it reminds us just how formative and vital tracks like \"Maybes\" were, but it only hints from where Hotflush's next breakthrough will come. "}