{"label":" Polydor / Downtown / Cooperative","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16508/homepage_large.67e8f7f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Cat's Eyes","title":"Cat's Eyes","text":" For the past few years, Horrors frontman Faris Badwan has frequently turned his gaze to past sounds and styles, from the rockabilly gutterpunk lurking under the dirty fingernails of his band's 2007 LP, Strange House, to its surprisingly successful aboutface embracing of dark, melodic postpunk on 2009's Primary Colours. The past continues to be the focus in Cat's Eyes, Badwan's collaborative project with Canadian opera singer and multiinstrumentalist Rachel Zeffira. The pair create gauzy reminiscences of 1950s and 60s pop, while their videos and visual design resemble the flickering glow of a damaged, ancient TV set. Even Cat's Eyes' first show took place in a particularly oldworld venue: St. Peter's Basilica, in Vatican City. Leading up to the duo's selftitled debut LP, Badwan cited Joe Meek, Phil Spector, and the film Dirty Dancing as sources of inspiration; there are merely strains of those influences throughout Cat's Eyes. Instead, Badwan and Zeffira have created an enjoyably sinister, richly atmospheric backdrop for their softfocus pop fragments. The influence of Portishead's Geoff Barrow producing Primary Colours continues to bear fruit, as the intense claustrophobia that marked Portishead's 2008 comeback Third similarly colors these proceedings. The deathmarch horns in \"Bandit\" suggest that the badly behaved lover in question is more of a murderer than a philanderer; when the infamous opening rhythm to the Ronettes' \"Be My Baby\" finally appears in the kissoff \"Not a Friend\", it sounds not like a heartbeat, but a pair of feet, trying to get the hell out of town. Zeffira sounds like she's already gone, though: She maintains her distance throughout Cat's Eyes. Any hint of her operatic training has been wiped clean and replaced with a delivery that rarely breaks past a coolly delivered singchant. Initially, the choice not to exercise what's a fairly unique ability comes off as a bit strange; you'd think that she would want to see how at least one of these songs would sound in her fullthroated soprano. As it turns out, though, Zeffira's vocal stylistic departure is a solid fit, emphasizing the damaged loneliness captured on the record. She floats over these songs, dropping quiet bombs on \"Best Person I Know\" and adding weariness to the brassy proclamations of \"Over You\". At times, her voice is reminiscent of late Broadcast member Trish Keenan in vocal tone and enunciation, adding an occasionally eerie feel to Cat's Eyes. Consequently, when Badwan's own deeptoned voice enters to duet with Zeffira, it's something of an intrusion; unhelpfully, during the torrential dirge \"Sooner or Later\", he takes his only solo turn on the album, and the droning mess sticks out like a fist of sore thumbs. Badwan and Zeffira are credited with writing, orchestrating, and arranging the record on their own, and despite all the fluttery horns and Disney strings it wears like Christmas bells, the result is tight in form and execution. The two nonCat's Eyes cuts from the Broken Glass teaser EP released earlier this year, the punky \"Sunshine Girls\" and \"Love You Anyway\", would have no place on this album, revealing a talent for selfediting that makes a miserable, moaning momentumkiller like \"Sooner or Later\" feel wholly extraneous. Otherwise, Cat's Eyes is the rare side project effort that feels as (if not more) fully realized than the band from which it borrows members. "}