{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16503/homepage_large.0ee5751a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Grails","title":"Deep Politics","text":" At this point, you'd have an easier time rattling off all the kinds of music Portland instrumental rockers Grails don't make than the kinds they do. They have not, to my knowledge, released a hiphop track; the klezmer influence is negligible. Beyond that, though, their shapeshifting postrock seems capable of swallowing genres whole. And Deep Politics, their latest, is among their richest, most expansive offerings to date. From stoner sludge to swirling desert rock to meditative mood music, Grails run an impressively wide gamut on Deep Politics. Less heavy and histrionic than 2008's grisly Doomsdayer's Holiday, Deep Politics has a rugged but decidedly habitable feel, craggy but markedly earthbound. Though the record's cohesion in the midst of its everchanging sound is plenty impressive, each constituent part, too, is thrilling. So much postrock leaves the listener waiting around for the good bit to kick in; Grails' constantly changing sound makes every moment arresting, not simply the big crescendos. For all its sparseness and delicacy, nearly every moment on Deep Politics is suffused with a sort of looming dread. And when it hits, it hits hard. You can take your pick on Deep Politics' most stunning segment; the gnarled tangle of guitar and strings on opener \"Future Primitive\", the towering symphonic blast of \"All the Colors of the Dark\", the punishing back half of \"I Led Three Lives\". The many quiet moments prove just as rich and striking, suffusing the disc with rays of light to help offset the wide swaths of darkness. They push sounds nimbly in and out of the mix without ever risking overload, and while there's plenty of virtuosity bubbling under the surface particularly on the trickily fingerpicked closer \"Deep Snow\" there's little flash to be found, all instruments joined in service of the overall picture. From swirling Easterntinged psych to ruddy widescreen metal to lilting modern classicalinflected strings, the dynamics are constantly in motion, but everything slots together just so. The fluteled \"Corridors of Power\" shoots for twilight peyote ceremony but winds up in a suburban yoga studio; it's salvaged a bit by its snaky guitar backdrop, but it's the moment on Deep Politics that misses its mark. Just the same, though, it's as easy to imagine the smoky backlight poster vibe of the mildly funky \"Daughters of Bilitis\" or one of their sidetrips into heavier realms turning some other listener away. That's the risk you take when you take on so much music in the course of threequarters of an hour, I suppose. But while their pangenre noise is certainly ambitious, the quietly virtuosic Grails only occasionally overreach. And even as they fold more sounds into the mixture, they find a place for nearly all of them. All encompassing and utterly engrossing, Deep Politics proves yet another stirring triumph from one of rock's great unsung ensembles. "}