{"label":" Traum","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16515/homepage_large.0ca60fae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Dominik Eulberg","title":"Diorama","text":" It's difficult to accuse Dominik Eulberg of grace. The German producer known primarily for his implicating of biology into techno has excelled as a singles artists but has gone to lengths to remind us that his vision of techno does not conform to the sterile, selfserious club paradigm. My favorite work by him, Heimische Gefilde, is a collection of his best 12\"s strung unnecessarily together by hammy naturedoc chatter. His tracks feature recordings of wildlife. There are, of course, the album covers. A workhorse producer, Dom's creations become overgrown when allowed time. Diorama, his fourth album, is different in this respect. Following an unusually protracted silence (he last dropped a new track in 2009), Eulberg delivers a comparatively composed and wellfelt long player. Eulberg has always made his obsession with nature explicit, but unlike, say, Boards of Canada (obsessed with weirdo library music) or Trentemøller (pure forestrock), his application isn't stylized; it's clinical. (Said another way: BoC are interested in Kodachrome nostalgia; Eulberg in a butterfly specimen pinned to felt.) Once a parttime forest ranger, Eulberg has dedicated each of Diorama's 11 tracks to a different aspect of \"domestic nature.\" If we understand Diorama's title literally, these are representations, and I can get there: Diorama feels more detailed, scripted, and painterly than his previous efforts. No one should conflate Dom's extracurricular interests with an inability to get down: He specializes in fouronthefloor techno with burrpatch bass and starry synths. At his best, Eulberg produces lowcal trance. His tracks thrive on the friction between horny, acidic lowend and panning, belllike leads. Rhythms are uncluttered, and he lovingly tweaks them as his tracks begin to buzz and flutter. Diorama features plenty of this (\"Das Neunauge\"), but there is a greater sense of control. Opener \"TaeuschungsBlume\" takes Four Tet's breakbeatladen psychedelia and distends it over the course of five pillowy minutes. On \"Der Tanz der Gluehwuermchen\" he goes to great lengths to prepare us for the skyscraping synth melody that carries the track home; the next track (\"Aeronaut\") is a beatific comedown. Though he crafts long, arching pieces, Dom's music has never featured a narrative, just details. He builds to beauty but not necessarily to climax, and close listening can be exhausting. Diorama is better paced than his previous albums, but it's trance music both stylistically and functionally, abstracted nodding for the thinkers. Nature is a perfect corollary: Delight in its peculiarities, because divining a greater purpose will make your head hurt. "}