{"label":" Shout! Factory","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16527/homepage_large.97edffd4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Iggy Pop","title":"Roadkill Rising... The Bootleg Collection 1977-2009","text":" For any other artist, the idea of issuing four discs of moldy live recordings particularly for a performer who's been anthologized a couple of times already would reek of the worst kind of barrelscraping, fanfleecing cash grab. But to summarize a career as unlikely as Iggy Pop's, it makes perfect sense. Despite the enduring import of his first three albums with the Stooges and mid70s collaborations with David Bowie the influence of which can still be heard today in everyone from Fucked Up to LCD Soundsystem those albums tell only part of the story. The real reason why Iggy's been able to carve out a career for 40plus years going from certain drug casualty to potential \"American Idol\" judge without the benefit of a platinum record is his magnetic charisma as a live performer. And long before YouTube allowed us to attend concerts vicariously, bootlegs played a crucial role in establishing that legend. Even without being able to see his wiry body slither across the stage, the seemingly bottomless supply of unauthorized Iggy concert recordings reified his incomparable talents for baiting a crowd, ad libbing, and rewriting \"Louie Louie\" with new lyrics more vulgar than the FBI could've ever imagined. At an Iggy show, what happens between the songs is just as entertaining and edifying as the songs themselves. This quality was first widely brought to light with the most (in)famous of Iggyrelated bootlegs, Metallic K.O., a delirious document of the Raw Powerera Stooges' dying days (circa 197374) and Iggy at his selfdestructive zenith, encouraging all manner of abuse (verbal or otherwise) from a bloodthirsty crowd. In contrast, Roadkill Rising is like the extended postscript to that moment, picking up the story in 1977, after Bowie had effectively brought Iggy back from the dead with the stillpotent doublewhammy of The Idiot and Lust For Life. The set devotes each of its four discs to performances from a specific decade, but even if you don't think Iggy has produced a fronttoback great album since 1979's New Values, Roadkill Rising is still worth your time. No matter what era, each disc is padded with period performances of Stooges and Bowieera material and amusing coversong desecrations (ranging from \"Hang on Sloopy\" to the \"Batman\" theme), while 80s/90s selections like \"Blah Blah Blah\" and \"Home\" hit with greater force when stripped of their dated productions. But more significantly, Roadkill Rising functions less as a simple overview of Iggy's postStooges career than an elaborate portrait of the first punk who had to grow up in public, and the difficult transition from selfmutilating spectacle into respectable artist. Early on, at a Detroit show from 1977, we hear Iggy trying mischievously to muscle his way into the classicrock canon with a cover of Them's \"Gloria\", wherein he uses the famous refrain to spell out his own name. But later, at a particularly unruly Detroit gig from 1980 the excerpts of which alone are worth the compilation's price tag we hear him paying the price for his own petulance: It takes Iggy no less than three tries to get through a subdued, smoky cover of the Sinatra standard \"One For My Baby (And One More For the Road)\", as he's forced to talk down an increasingly impatient crowd who'd rather he do away with the showtunes shtick and get back to \"Cock in My Pocket\". As Roadkill Rising traverses the 80s up through the 2000s, you can hear the audiences getting larger and more receptive to his whims, while Iggy becomes less concerned with antagonizing his audience than looking out for them; he cuts a 2003 performance of \"Dirt\" short to berate a bouncer for denying an overeager fan's attempt to dance with him onstage. Inevitably, for a set that sprawls over four discs and 65 songs, Roadkill Rising is weighed down by blocks of inessential tracks from 1993's American Caesar and 2001's Beat Em Up, at the expense of including certified classics like \"I Got a Right\", \"Success\", \"I'm Bored\", and \"Fun House\" (the last of which is actually featured on the tracklist, but incorrectly so; it's really \"1970\"). But even as it catalogs numerous changes in style, backing bands, and recording fidelity climaxing with selections from the Stooges' riotous 2007 reunion tour Roadkill Rising invariably succeeds in presenting an Iggy Pop gig as an exceedingly exciting place to be, where the line separating exhilaration and unrest is routinely blurred. And in the context of all that precedes it, the closing string of songs from Iggy's jazzy Frenchchanson experiment, Préliminaires complete with cordial, \"VH1 Storytellers\"style betweensong banter feels less like the WTF leftturn it seemed upon release in 2009 and more like a welldeserved reprieve from spending the past four decades sating his audience's desire to see him open up and bleed. "}