{"label":" Lovitt","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16531/homepage_large.af89788b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Des_Ark","title":"Don’t Rock the Boat, Sink the Fucker","text":" Des Ark started as a queercore duo 10 years ago, releasing their first LP, Loose Lips Sink Ships, in 2005. Since its inception, the band has remained in a state of flux, with members coming and going almost on a showbyshow basis. The mainstay has been Aimée Collet Argote, a guitar player and songwriter currently based in Philadelphia. She spent nearly four years recording her second fulllength, and one would imagine that would give her plenty of time to think up a better album title than Don't Rock the Boat, Sink the Fucker. There is a curious incongruity between the presentation of the music and the music itself on Fucker. Scribbled across a radiant photo of Argote, that title suggests a bumper sticker more than an album, and \"My Saddle Is Waiting (C'Mon Jump on It)\" and \"Bonne Chance, Asshole\" don't sound like songs called \"My Saddle Is Waiting (C'Mon Jump on It)\" and \"Bonne Chance, Asshole\". Anyone expecting agitprop mallpunk or ironic cowpunk covers may be surprised by the shimmery pop sound of Fucker, which creates a dynamic, often dense sound out of a minimum of instruments. This is an album of compelling contradictions and frictions. Argote is an especially forthcoming songwriter, penning incisive and cutting lyrics about female relationships that range from selfdestructive (\"I was fucking every girl who looked my way\") to accusatory (\"when you find a lover that you want to keep, I think you'll talk to her first, before you tell her you don't love her\"). She bares her soul on the lyrics sheet, yet sings and mixes her vocals as if to obscure her words, often bending her syllables or burying them in the mix. Rather than alienating, however, the tactic proves engaging, as she makes the listener lean into the music and work to decipher it. Most of the time it's well worth the effort, as Argote and her collaborators including guitar player Noah Howard and drummer Ashley Arnwine capture a loud sort of quiet, emphasizing the softer passages to give the abrasive moments more weight. It's most effective on \"My Saddle Is Waiting (C'Mon Jump on It)\", which begins with a gentle acoustic theme that repeats throughout the song. By the end, it has changed completely simply by juxtaposition to other melodies and motifs, and all the elements come together for an unexpectedly poignant finale. \"Howard's Hour of Shower\" is so spare that you can hear the speaker buzz behind her chiming guitars and vocals. On the other hand, \"It's Only a Bargain If You Want It\" churns stridently as the instruments grind against each other and Argote sings, \"You will always be my girl.\" It's both reassuring and menacing a promise and a threat. Listening to Fucker, it's difficult to discern Argote's intentions regarding that disconnect between the packaging and the music or if she even intended such a disconnect. The effect, however, is often intriguing, suggesting a sleight of hand that slyly upends listener expectations about the sound and politics of gender, sexuality, lust, love, and indie rock. To her credit, she never comes across as strictly political or academic, although surely she doesn't really buy into that title. Sinking the fucker is much too blunt; Des Ark rock with more nuance than that. "}