{"label":" Captured Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16535/homepage_large.d9c51eba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Blank Dogs","title":"Collected By Itself: 2006 to 2009","text":" When oneman Brooklyn band Blank Dogs debuted a few years back, many listeners thought Mike Sniper's distorted, minimalist synthrock represented the tail end of the era's fascination with early1980s UK postpunk. With time, and a big general shift within indie rock, Blank Dogs actually turned out to be one of the first, and rather prescient, examples of the new lofi generation at work. Blank Dogs wasn't a cheap offthecuff take on the fullbodied (and pristinely recorded) dancepunk sound of the DFA. He was a purposefully strippeddown tribute to the first wave of bands that turned thrifty bedroom recording into a badge of honor. Heard in 2011, the grab bag of singles and random early tunes collated on Collected By Itself sounds less like the work of an indie outlier and more like the (retrominded) Sound of Right Now. True, Collected By Itself may not share many obvious sonic reference points with, say, Best Coast. But like the sunandfun wing of lofi, Collected defiantly foregrounds its fuzzedout homemade qualities. It's just that everything sounds claustrophobic, rather than warm and inviting, with all the dynamic qualities of \"real\" rock squashed into a grimy midrange blare. As David Raposa pointed out in his review of Blank Dogs' last proper album, 2010's Land and Fixed, this was very much intentional. Sniper chose to pay homage to a sound that reveled in murk and grime and gothic menace, and so why wouldn't his music sound like this? Though recent Blank Dogs records have grown brighter, their hooks more distinct, it's hard to imagine the songs on Collected being improved by cleaning them up for mass consumption. The chilly and muted vibe is a big part of the record's appeal, as it was for the records he draws from. The muffled machine drums and friedsounding synthesizers on Collected By Itself are often a deadringer for \"Nag Nag Nag\"era Cabaret Voltaire, and Sniper seems to have a similar conflicted relationship to pop as the early Cabs. These aren't dirges, and Sniper does have a weird knack for memorable choruses. But a tune like \"Waiting\", a ramshackle guitar stomper not a million miles from the current crop of San Francisco garage bands, is still a rarity. The bulk of Collected is propelled by Peter Hook bass lines throbbing weakly along and some squiggles of sour keyboard noise. Sniper's droning voice occasionally bears a resemblance to the late Jay Reatard in Anglophile mode, but usually stripped of any intensity, the choruses driven home by their nagging repetition rather than any sort of pop ecstasy. In other words, as you might guess given the limitededition nature of these songs on their original releases, it's not for everyone, especially in 27song hourplus bulk. If the gray and eerie world conjured by the grottier members of the original Rough Trade crew appeals, and you've never delved into Blank Dogs' ample discography before, then Collected might be for you. For everyone else, a little dose of this drizzly dourness will probably do you. "}