{"label":" Slumberland","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16539/homepage_large.bf7459be.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Brave Irene","title":"Brave Irene EP","text":" Brave Irene's debut EP represents a return for bandleader and indie pop veteran Rose Melberg. It's the first time in 15 years that one of her projects has seen release on Slumberland (the Bay Area indie previously put out a selftitled 10\" from her collaboration with All Girl Summer Fun Band's Jen Sbragia as the Softies.) It's also the first time she's fronted a band making this kind of racket since her days as a member of the early 1990s noisepop outfit Tiger Trap. So for anyone who has been following along with her more lowkey work in the interim, the rocky blast that kicks off Brave Irene opener \"No Fun\" is both a surprise and a welcome look back at the past. That's not to say she's repeating herself here. Melberg has always been a shapeshifter. While Tiger Trap had a hand in drawing the clattering blueprint for a sound that's still beloved and imitated, the Vancouverbased Brave Irene draws inspiration from a different world of underground rock specifically, the rolling \"Dunedin Sound\" that came from esteemed New Zealand label Flying Nun in the 1980s and 90s. The Kiwi callback comes mostly in the form of Caitlin Gilroy and Jessica Wilkin's dual keyboard assault; their seasick lines dart in and out of the eight songs here, providing a seesawing motion to even the EP's least \"rocking\" song, the sweet \"Bank Holiday\". Coupled with the rapidly precise drumming of Laura Hatfield, Brave Irene's keyboardheavy sound carries with it a hint of psychedelia. There's nothing distinctly \"trippy\" about Brave Irene as a whole, though; these songs contain the same questions of the heart that fans of Melberg's output expect from her projects. She delivers those musings in her bright, empathetic voice the same one that made the Softies' dreamy, drumless songs so instantly inviting. Not a word is wasted, from the longdistance heartbreak of \"River to the Sea\" to the fearless flight of \"Hit the Grass Running\", pronounced with an arresting intimacy that feels refreshingly out of step with current indie trends. After all, this is \"feelings\" music, and if you can't parse the sentiments, how do you relate? That directness is what places Brave Irene in the here and now. Obviously, the \"Slumberland sound\" has been warmed over plenty of times by younger artists with impeccable record collections and keen ears for replication. But little of the recent revivalism has sounded this fresh and bright ironic, given how long Melberg has been at it. There's plenty to like here, whether you've been approaching indie pop through its new disciples or you're the kind of person wondering if Cub will ever make another record. For a band with such strong ties to the past, Brave Irene's future sounds especially appealing. "}