{"label":" Rodriguez López","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16537/homepage_large.fafd0354.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Omar Rodriguez-López","title":"Telesterion","text":" Omar RodriguezLopez makes most of his peers look like slackers. In addition to five albums with the Mars Volta, each a hyperdetailed slab of acid rock in their own right, the guy's released more than 20 solo albums and collaborations over the past seven years, ranging from meandering journeys through electronic ambience to noodling saxophonedriven fusion jams to frantic riffheavy hard rock. On Telesterion you get a very large dose of all three modes. And yet, even as wideranging summary of RodriguezLopez's last decade of activity, this compilation only offers a hint of the scope of his project. This is not necessarily a bad thing. RodriguezLopez's creative outpouring has often felt from the outside like productivityforitsown sake rather than someone building a wellcurated body of work. Like the Mars Volta's endlessseeming multipart epics, going overboard is sort of the whole point with RodriguezLopez's solo career, both in terms of the sheer number of records and their musical indulgences. This is grand and outlandish and virtuosic stuff, less about writing songs than locking into crazed and complicated grooves while everyone else (including the singer) wails overtop. The best of these records are still aimed squarely at the cult already wanting to hear RodriguezLopez and his admittedly talented band of collaborators show off their chops, get deep in the pocket. Some of these records have even alienated fans, though, especially the ones that fully abandon the fractured funk of heavy 1970s jazzrock (at which Rodriguez excels, even if it's a very minority interest among modern rock fans) for experimental soundmanipulation (which sometimes feel more like private sketches than anything the public might actually be interested in). So a compilation like Telesterion should be a muchneeded chance to both edit out weaker stuff and allow curious Volta fans an easier in. Right? Well, yes and no. If it's easier to get to grips with than listening to a few dozen individual albums, Telesterion is still in keeping with dude's general mission in life. A vast and unwieldy thing, offering two and a half hours of sound to digest, it's in no way a userfriendly greatest hits. There are songs, even hooks, in this mass  , but they're clearly not the main draw for artist or fans. Some tracks, like \"Sex, Consolation for Misery\", are little more than extended guitar solos, though if you've got a low tolerance for shameless displays of instrumental virtuosity then you're probably not the intended audience. The experiments, like \"Deus Ex Machina\", which sounds like recordings swiped from Latin American radio and subjected to all sorts of studio trickery, still make up a good percentage of Telesterion's running time. But bracketed by the claustrophobic (if sometimes very thrilling) guitar freakouts and Mahavishnu slowjams, these interludes suddenly feel more like necessary breathers. And Telesterion is indeed very wellsequenced for what it is. The opening threesong runs offers some of the most direct (read: rocking) music of RodriguezLopez's solo career, easing you into the extremely loose stuff to come, and even late into the second disc, he'll throw in a wailing hard rocker like \"The Power of Myth\" to bring things back to Earth. For most people reading this, at a time when few of us still park ourselves in front of our stereos for a few hours to soak in music without distraction, it all probably still sounds like just too much to process. But while in no way aimed at pop fans, it's more repeatlistenable than anyone except the biggest RodriguezLopez diehard would have expected. "}