{"label":" Ernest Jenning","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16550/homepage_large.88684b6c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Title Tracks","title":"In Blank","text":" After recording almost every instrument himself on It Was Easy, Washington, DC's John Davis (former Q And Not U drummer and member of Georgie James) has enlisted collaborators Andrew Black and Michael Cotterman for In Blank, his second album as Title Tracks. While It Was Easy was clearly written by an accomplished, popsmart musician, its gentle eclecticism and mild singersongwriter indulgences made it feel a little too clean and calculated. With In Blank, Davis has tapped into something vital that even the best backing band can't automatically afford: confidence. In Blank is, for the most part, a raucous blast of powerpop, its mono recording nicely balancing the inherent tunefulness of these fastpaced, quicktempered songs. The first third of the album boasts a blur of highenergy cuts that shake with the tenuous endurance of Hearts of Oakera Ted Leo. Despite being jammed with memorable hooks (the sneering shoutability of the excellent \"Turn Your Face\") and riffs (the elastic guitar that snaps all over \"Light Sleepers\"), these songs work thanks to their continuity (and the constant pogo of Cotterman's bass). Sounding as if they were all meticulously rehearsed and then recorded in one breathless, blurry streak, their energy feels infinite. But, alas, Davis falls into humdrum Elvis Costello homage on the album's sagging middle section. Davis has a lot in common with Costello vocally, so it's not as if he can't hold his own but the songs themselves either meander a little too much (\"All Tricks\") or seem like flimsy Xeroxes. Not to mention, when stationed next to those tightwound first 11 minutes, they dissolve from memory, feeling like an unfortunate step backwards. Luckily, Davis shares a certain kinship with another powerpop legend, New Pornographer Carl Newman. \"No Air\", which takes pot shots at \"artists whose real skill, fleeting or not, is that they don't have anything to say,\" has a fire in its belly reminiscent of early Pornos, while \"Cain and the Twigs\" carries some of the bright, simply stated hallmarks of Newman's solo debut, The Slow Wonder. These are strong tracks that showcase Davis' firm handle of sharply orchestrated pop, but ultimately, In Blank's songwriting peters out a little. If Davis can continue to find the courage he frequently taps into here, he could cut it even looser next time. "}