{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16563/homepage_large.35d61977.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Soderberg","artist":"Spaceghostpurrp","title":"Blvcklvnd Rvdix 66.6 (1991)","text":" Though nobody's idea of the next big thing, Spaceghostpurrp, a 20yearold from Miami who makes hypnagogic stripper anthems, received a strange cosign from L.A. Weekly's blog: They called him \"Odd Future's Cosmic Cousin.\" To be clear, Spaceghostpurrp will not make a gamechanging appearance on \"Late Night With Jimmy Fallon\", and outside of being another young skate kid fascinated by video games and Satan, he doesn't have much in common with Tyler and company. If a comparison must be drummedup to sell this very weird, really good, but inarguably niche stuff, let's go with \"Clam Casino's evil druggie dropout cousin from the South.\" Like last year's NASA: The Mixtape, Blvcklvnd Rvdix 66.6 (1991) is obsessed with the earliest, ugliest Three 6 Mafia releases (particularly Underground, Vol. 1: 19911994) and follows that tradition of creepy club music while slyly updating it as well. \"Possessed\", Blvcklvnd's intro track, is lofi Lex Luger that tops the oppressive feeling of all those \"B.M.F.\"style beats, but toys with their pop appeal, thanks to a catchy, simple hook that is screamed like a black metal vocal. Further separating his style from anything resembling conventional hiphop, Spaceghostpurrp doesn't care for proper mixing (you might go insane listening to this on headphones) and he piles on video game sound effects and dub reggaelike noises. \"Captain Planet\" is a contemplative bouncing moan, like some lost Oval track; hypnotic synth blasts turn the ridiculously titled \"Suck a Dick For 2011\" and hazy stripper anthem \"Grind on Me\" into something transcendent. By the way, there is lots of stuff like \"Suck a Dick For 2011\" on here, which means Spaceghostpurrp is also very into 90s rap's misogyny (lots of strip club talk and \"bitch\" shouts), so be warned. The last bunch of tracks climb out of the sizzurp murk and go for a 90s New York rap style. \"Legend of the East Pyramyds\" does moaning soul sample rap better than it has any right to, and then it piles on Halloween sound effects. ODB tribute \"Osiris of the East Pyramids Blackland R.I.P. ODB\" consists of synth tones floating ominously, merging the streetwise paranoia of New York and the vergeofdeath doom of Houston. It's one of this year's most haunting songs even though it sounds like a mashup of underground hiphop from 15 years ago. Born in 1991, Spaceghostpurrp's really just another one of those indie bedroom producers approaching the music of his earliest years, pairing it with very ofthemoment sonic decisions, and exposing the ways that once disparate arenas of sound mesh together. Blvcklvnd Rvdix 66.6 (1991) is a mess of Three 6 Mafiachanting, woozy WuTang loops, DJ Screw wheeze, and Mortal Kombat and Godzilla sound effects, all paired with an offthedome rapping style that's equal parts Lil Wayne and Lil B. It's as if James Ferraro Lawnmower Maned his way into a rap rarity message board and soundtracked the journey. "}