{"label":" Trekky Records","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16558/homepage_large.3acfc41c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Phil Cook & His Feat","title":"Hungry Mother Blues","text":" Megafaun stand out from a crowded field of Americanainspired indie rock bands because of their investment in musical heritage, from oldtime string bands and traditional folk ballads to jazz to 20th century classical. Last September in Durham, the historically rich North Carolina city the band calls home, they collaborated with former bandmate Justin Vernon, Brooklyn singer/songwriter Sharon Van Etten, and Virginia jazz combo Fight the Big Bull on an expansive reinterpretation of one of American folk's sacred documents, Sounds of the South, the anthology recorded by Alan Lomax circa 1960. It's no stretch to imagine that Megafaun multitasker Phil Cook's immersion in this venerable material shaped the deeprooted simplicity of his solo debut. During the Sounds of the South premiere, I was especially enamored of Cook's sensitivity as an instrumentalist. On the piano, he had a gracefully leaping sense of melody, and on the banjo, he played clusters of sweet harmonics in places where a less humble musician might have soloed hard. This tasteful and generous temper suffuses Hungry Mother Blues, a collection of instrumental folk compositions mostly for acoustic guitar, banjo, and growling resonator; perhaps a dash of harmonica for color. Cook's Feat are actually just his feet, lightly whomping on a homemade stompbox. He's alone and yet not, conversing with a pantheon of American innovators who favor expressivity over flash: people such as slide guitarist Ry Cooder, the fingerstyle guitarist John Fahey, and the shapeshifting Bill Frisell. The album opens with the welcoming breeze of \"Frazee, Minnesota\", whose lead melody strongly resembles the vocal part of Arthur Russell's \"Maybe She\". While almost certainly coincidental, it gives you an idea of how melodically lucid Cook's writing is. The fluent \"Juniper\" is just as eminently hummable, to an almost crazy degree for instrumental music. These are simple, bucolic themes, brought to life with a deft assortment of bends, slides, and evolving transpositions. Offsetting the earworms are grooveandatmosphere focused tracks such as the gently galloping, clawhammer banjo tune \"Waiting 'Round the Oven Buns\" and the Cooderesque \"Ballad of a Hungry Mother\". Overall, it's a great chance to hear the subtle and relaxed touch Cook brings to Megafaun unadorned, save for the barest fouronthefloor beats here and there. Still, let's be clear: This is not a Megafaun record. There are no freakouts or electronic interventions or field recordings. It's eight casualfeeling songs in just under 20 minutes, though it's quite diverse within those narrow confines, flowing easily from the moony blues of \"Sparrowander\" to the cockier swagger of \"The Last Steam Engine Train\". Hungry Mother Blues shows us some of the basic underpinnings beneath Megafaun's gritty inventions, reminding us that if you want to make something really new, it helps to be deeply coversant with the old. "}