{"label":" When In Doubt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16565/homepage_large.a54c1102.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"2562","title":"Fever","text":" For better and worse, electronic music cares about process. You wouldn't ever congratulate a friend who spent months getting his oven to function as a refrigerator, but anyone who can make a vacuum sound like an 808 can prepare for notoriety, if not outright praise. Artists such as Matthew Herbert, the Field, and Matmos have diced sounds until their notable sources are barely detectable. So it goes with 2562, whose third album, Fever, was inspired by disco music (hence the title) released in the late 1970s around the time of the producer's birth. It's probably a smart gambit for the producer: His first two albums, while well received, were more notable for expanding dubstep's geographical imprint (2562 is the postal code of the producer's home in the Hague) than its sonic one. Despite its roots every last sound here is sampled from disco records Fever is a fairly catholic dubstep set: Racketeering snares, ominous chord structures, and a vague melodic distension pervade the album. Still, you can hear the fruits of his labor, especially in comparison to 2009's Unbalance. Fever is warmer, due both to its subtle vinyl crackle and the vague symphonic timbre that hovers whenever its minute samples are massed in melody. The persistent, fouronthefloor clacking that propels \"Brasil Deadwalker\" is a visceral reminder of how techno and house borrowed and digitized disco's rhythmic structure. The anthemic opener \"Winamp Melodrama\" (great title) grabs a Gamble & Huff hammer and bangs everything in sight. 2562 doesn't employ vocal samples very often, but on the albumclosing title track he gathers several into a dense fog and achieves a kind of beauty rarely attempted elsewhere on the album. About that: Fever, like 2562's previous records, is hard music. There is no wobble in the bass or flutter in the melodies; they are presented asis, with little space for the listener. Fever can sound plastic, unpliable at times. I can hear the echoes of those old disco records in these sounds, but I can't find any of the laughter, silliness, or goodwill that fueled them. 2562 spent a lot of time molding one genre of music into another: It's safe to say he cares about sound for sound's sake. Which is fine, but it also means that the process that drove Fever's creation wasn't undertaken in an effort to illuminate the source material (it should be said that while most genres of dance music owe a healthy debt to disco, dubstep is really more of a third cousin than a granddaughter) or forge new territory. It was done as an exercise. So parts of Fever the boneonbone thwacks that close \"Flavour Park Jam\", for instance are essentially just 2562 going through the motions: the tedious, musically rigorous motions. I adore the idea behind Fever, and the attempt to artistically bind oneself to a process like this is brave. But in boxing himself in, 2562 seems to have found just a new box, a constricted area where several of his compositions suffocate. Those that escape are enjoyable as some kind of tonally curious, hardscrabble bass music, which is where 2562 began in the first place. "}