{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16571/homepage_large.249e90a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Bevan","artist":"Ensemble","title":"Excerpts","text":" Ensemble is the current nom de plume of Olivier Alary, Frenchborn, Montrealbased composer. You may recognize his name as one of a few contributors to Björk's Medulla, where he served as both a cowriter and remix artist. Or, you might have heard the score he provided for 2009's Last Train Home, a wellreceived Chinese film about a family of peasants journeying to be reunited. Both are good contextual examples when approaching Alary's work as Ensemble, a project in which he marries elements of film score and classical music to more experimental avenues. It's a note he hits early in Excerpts, his latest. As \"Opening\" opens, Alary arranges for what feel like great orchestral sighs and groans, violins that dance above a layer of lowend that recalls the Montreal postrock of Godspeed You! Black Emperor. That dichotomy between flight and discord makes for music whose axis is constantly being flipped, whose focal point is always shifting. It's disorienting listening of a very specific type. It's often that music so fit for film suffers without a visual compliment. That's not the case with Excerpts. Alary's work here holds up well on its own, though it's not a record with a whole lot of replay value. Take for instance the many stages of \"Things I Forget\", a piece that stops to change direction several times within its own fiveminute running time. \"They come, they go, things I collect,\" sings Darcy Conroy, whose vocals appear often here, both in French and English. \"Gathered en masse, spilled from the drawers, estimating the past.\" It's an image echoed both by Excerpts' cluttered cover art as well as the overarching concept Alary threads throughout the record. As he and Conroy conclude warring spoken word passages at this song's jarring midpoint, it finds a new melodic thread to carry it home, the very same that Alary recycles for the title track's bedrock in the album's second half. It's a clever attempt attempt at what feels like musical deja vu. Alary designed Excerpts to feature a host of trapdoors and moving walls that connect to one another both conceptually and musically. The glowing tympani of \"En attendant l'orage\" could very well be a link to the atonal needling and cinematic whoosh of \"Valse des objets trouves\". Or how about the strings of \"November 22nd\", which Alary writes to mimic the blare of Martin Horns, more commonly known as European sirens. Just as soon as that sound makes itself familiar, Alary pairs it with the real thing. There are instances like these smartly arranged throughout. Holistically, they combine to form an album that interacts with itself on a number of levels. While it brandishes a certain kind of insular brilliance, it's music more ripe for conversation or think pieces than headphones or the living room hifi. "}