{"label":" Wonder Beard Tapes / Fork and Spoon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16572/homepage_large.a642dec9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Coma Cinema","title":"Blue Suicide","text":" It's not hard to draw a line between the music on Coma Cinema's third proper release, Blue Suicide, and the pains it took to make it. Mat Cothran, the sole member of the South Carolina downer pop project, spent time in between sessions carrying microphones around, looking for the opportunity to record on equipment he stumbled upon. Lacking funds and created against the backdrop of the bellyup mill town he grew up in, Blue Suicide is expectedly blue. Perhaps not as expected is how ambitious and arresting this album can be, taking its emotional cues from the lovesick and bored American Gothic landscapes it was conceived in, and its musical touchstones from just about anywhere Cothran's determination allowed. There's a moment on \"Greater Vultures\" that helps put this process and the end result into perspective. Instead of amping up the poignancy on this dirgelike wallow by employing a weepy string part, Cothran brings in a sort of monstermovie synth line that's both oddly placed and a little disquieting. It's possibly a move made out of necessity, but it's these limitations and what Cothran does with them where the magnetism lies. When he creatively skirts these hindrances, it's often what keeps you on the hook. In the case of \"Greater Vultures\", it allows the song to take on a much deeper desperation. As Cothran murmurs, \"Are you willing to eat what the vultures will not?\" it's pretty clear that this acceptance of a less than perfect situation is a valuable part of Cothran's approach, as well as Blue Suicide's appeal. Which isn't to say it doesn't succumb to mere convenience at times. There are plenty of songs that seem comfortable just floating by in ways that clash with Cothran's larger ambitions. But there's always something to hold onto, no matter how shaky the foundation may be. Cothran by no means a flexible singer often alternates between a buzzing lilt and a dolorous hush throughout the album, but he has an ear for melodic hooks, often testing his limits with surprising results. \"Lindsey\" sounds like a Siamese Dreamera Smashing Pumpkins demo, with Cothran miming Billy Corgan at a dramatic extreme. \"Caroline, Please Kill Me\" is equally pleasing, boisterous and whiny with a radiofriendly enthusiasm. The fact that these bigger songs sound so homemade (though wellmixed and recorded) may prove detrimental to some, but it's hard not to admire a guy who has the gall to flatly ignore his relative inexperience in favor of just going for it. There are moments that come close to real greatness. \"Her Sinking Sun\" is a devastating hymn that can barely scrape itself off the ground to greet you, but Cothran isn't the kind of songwriter who gets off on sulking. \"Sinking Sun\" harnesses the gloom in such a visceral way, it has the strength to puncture. \"Eva Angelina\" is even better, mostly because it's the most selfassured offering here a patient, slowblooming heartbreaker that gets under your skin. More importantly, it's proof that there are truly impressive songs in Cothran. With some luck, enough people will get their hands on Blue Suicide to give him the chance to really prove us right. "}