{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16576/homepage_large.393343de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Group Doueh","title":"Zayna Jumma","text":" A glorious kind of chaos infiltrated the earliest recorded output by the Western Saharan act Group Doueh (pronounced \"Dooway\") on the Sublime Frequencies label. Much of the material spanned several decades of recordings culled from the tape archives of band leader Doueh (also known as Salmou Baamar). His disregard for time and trajectory was mirrored in the chopping up of styles from different eras that the band cultivated in their home in Dakhla. Doueh's childhood worship of Jimi Hendrix and James Brown could be keenly felt, but so could traditional forms of Saharoui and Gnawa music. Group Doueh is a family affair, with Doueh employing his wife Halima on vocals, and his sons El Waar (organ/keyboards) and Hamdan (drums). Doueh himself alternates between a threestringed lute called a tinidit and an electric guitar. Like the prior Beatte Harab, this album was recorded by Sublime Frequencies' Hisham Mayet, who dampened the band's earlier lofi recording techniques while maintaining the raw heart of the Group Doueh sound. There has been some notable sonic evolution since Beatte Harab. The tinny percussion of that album is replaced by more boisterous playing from Hamdan, and Doueh is prone to more regularly swapping out the tinidit for his electric guitar. In short, the rock and pop melodies that have always been present are given greater clarity, although Zayna Jumma still rests firmly within that panglobal mashup of cultures they've ingeniously threaded together. It begins in a place of abstract euphoria, through the casually faltering rhythms of the title track. At times it feels like the tinidit is falling out of sync with Hamdan's beat, but that slackness in the playing functions as the root of the song's slowbuild arc into abandon and elation. By the end of the track, Halima and her cosingers are shouting the words as they get all caught up in that frenzied spot they've been teased into by the increasingly maniacal playing. That steady shift into vocal exultation is a common event on Group Doueh recordings, but they also know how to temper those urges, putting the brakes on at just the right time on restrained tracks like \"MetHa\" and \"Aziza\". Doueh breaks out some chunky wahwah guitar to ease in \"Ishadlak Ya Khey\", which might be their most \"rock\" recording to date. But it retains vital components of the band's sound, such as the looseness in the playing that droops at just the right weight between the players. It's a credit to Mayet's work that he made these recordings sound as \"live\" as possible on \"Zaya Koum\" it feels like you're sitting in on a cozy session in Dakhla, where Doueh is happy to noodle his way into guitar oblivion while his family works around him. Similarly, on the sputtering \"Jagwar Doueh\", the vocal lines feel like wild oneoff improvisations that would have taken on vastly different forms had they been recorded in another time and place. Repetition is a key trait in the Group Doueh sound, and they use it wisely throughout this record. Often it will be a thudding beat that cycles tirelessly in place, allowing Doueh to layer his flanged and wahed guitar over the top. At other times, such as on the closing \"Wazan Doueh\", a stringed instrument of some type will loop over and over to form the rhythmic hook. That track is the most trancelike piece here, and its airy delivery demonstrates the band's remarkable versatility. The lightness of touch forms a neat contrast to the raucous close in the opening \"Zayna Jumma\". Doueh seems like a humble man, who'll continue to run his cassette store and work in Group Doueh's primary outlet as a wedding band regardless of the focus afforded to this album. In fact, he resisted all attempts to release his music until Mayet trekked across a large part of northwest Africa to meet him after hearing a few of his songs on the radio. Thankfully that mixture of modesty and reticence didn't endure, because Zayna Jumma is a densely layered piece of cultural crosspollination that consistently spills over into outright joy. "}