{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16589/homepage_large.68609ea3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Nick Cave & the Bad Seeds","title":"Let Love In","text":" The 1990s were very good to Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds. Where the previous decade saw Cave successfully transition out of the Birthday Party's combustible punk toward a more urbane, theatrical brand of rock, the 90s elevated him to the realm of archetype and institution. He successfully partycrashed Hollywood and \"Top of the Pops\", all while the collegeradio charts filled up with emergent artists PJ Harvey, Tindersticks, Afghan Whigs cut from the Bad Seeds' blackvelvet cloth. The Bad Seeds' mid90s pinnacle forms the basis of the latest round of Mute's excellent reissue series, which include vividly remastered versions of the original albums, along with a 5.1 surround sound mix, Bsides, official videos, and the latest installments of Iain Forsyth and Jane Pollard's illuminating fantestimonial documentaries, Do You Love Me Like I Love You? The title of the film series is taken from the twopart song that opens and closes Let Love In, an authoritative show of force that was perfectly timed for the Bad Seeds' insurrectionary appearance on the 1994 Lollapalooza tour. The Bad Seeds had always traded in high drama and dissonance, but never before had they sounded this imposingly heavy the lecherous intimations of \"Do You Love Me?\" explode into a torrent of chaingang vocals and drummer Thomas Wydler's machinegunned snare rolls, while \"Loverman\" triggers its quiettoloud eruptions so masterfully, Metallica would later cover the song to the surprise of no one. But amid Let Love In's ballast, you can hear Cave's increased adeptness at exploring his fascinations using sly, pitchblack humor instead of transgressive shock tactics. \"Red Right Hand\" the future theme song of the Scream film franchise sets its serialkiller narrative to a seductive swampy groove, and the beautiful piano ballad \"Nobody's Baby Now\" is a work of such wry, understated elegance, Cave originally thought of giving it to Johnny Cash. As Let Love In's signature tracks proved, Cave's love songs could easily turn into death songs, so it was inevitable that he'd devote an entire album to exploring that symbiotic relationship. Murder Ballads has a title so obvious and selfdefining, it's amazing that it took the Bad Seeds nine albums to use it. And the last thing you could accuse Cave of is false advertising: Dozens of characters lose their lives over the course of the album, which updates infamous folk tales like \"Stagger Lee\" with enough profanity and gratuitous violence to satisfy the bloodlusty standards of the postgangsta rap/Quentin Tarantino era. But the Bad Seeds' most lyrically depraved record is also their most musically ornate and accessible, with the band expanding to accommodate Dirty Three violinist Warren Ellis and former Cramps/Sonic Youth stickman Jim Sclavunos (as second percussionist), plus a pair of smoldering duets with PJ Harvey (\"Henry Lee\") and Kylie Minogue (the unlikely MTV hit \"Where the Wild Roses Grow\"). In fact, with its densely detailed storylines, heartracing epics (\"Song of Joy\", \"The Curse of Millhaven\") and cheeky curtainclosing cover of Bob Dylan's bornagain anthem \"Death Is Not the End\", it's hard not to imagine Murder Ballads as some perverse, alternateuniverse West End musical production. But look past its comically overthetop presentation and you realize Cave isn't simply indulging in some subversive genre exercise. He was examining the very idea of poetic license, pushing the limits of what an artist can get away with in a song when writing in character. The Boatman's Call is Cave's plea for redemption, an album every bit as dignified as its predecessor is deranged. After spending much of his career spinning yarns out of other people's misery, Cave emerging from a divorce and a highly publicized but shortlived affair with PJ Harvey comes clean about his own. On the stirring pianobased hymns \"Into My Arms\" and \"There Is a Kingdom\", he looks to religion less as a convenient dramatic device and more as the genuine refuge for the lonely soul. Cave had flirted with tender balladry many times before, but whereas previous turns like \"Straight to You\" and \"The Ship Song\" were shot through the Bad Seeds' widescreen lens, here, the atmosphere is so spare and intimate, you feel like you're curled up inside Cave's piano. More than any other album in this batch of reissues, The Boatman's Call is greatly enriched by a remaster that amplifies the magnitude of Cave's loneliness, from the burningember ambience of \"Lime Tree Arbour\" to Ellis' trembling violin lines on the absolutely devastating \"Far From Me\". But even though The Boatman's Call is Cave's most confessional, openhearted album, its sense of sorrow and catharsis transcends a strictly personal interpretation. It speak volumes about the album's universality that its songs have soundtracked everything from Michael Hutchence's funeral to Shrek 2. Following that triumphant triptych, it would be another four years before Cave reemerged with a new album, during which he finally kicked his recurring, 15year heroin addiction once and for all. Not surprisingly, No More Shall We Part carries the tentative air of an artist and band trying to reconnect with their muse, and with one another. No More feels more like a transitory album than a definitive statement, one that showcases the increasingly crucial role of Ellis' mournful violinplaying to the band's sound, but perhaps at the expense of founding members Blixa Bargeld (who would leave the band in 2003), and Mick Harvey (who would follow suit in 2009). Tellingly, Bargeld and Harvey are nowhere to be seen in the No More set's accompanying installment of Do You Love Me, after making prominent appearances in each of the series' previous episodes. But amid its stately sprawl and gorgeous guest vocals from folk legends Kate and Anna McGarrigle, No More Shall We Part effectively points the way from the desolate, pianobar introspection of The Boatman's Call toward the swagger, bombast, and cutting humor that would define the Bad Seeds' output throughout the rest of the coming decade. Following No More's release, Cave would switch labels to Anti and, with 2003's Nocturama, ignite a more raucous, rawpowered phase of his career that's currently manifested itself in the Bad Seeds' hellacious alterego act, Grinderman. But if No More Shall We Part seems less distinguished next to Cave's mid90s streak and his reinvigorated Anti output, it represents an important turning point in the Bad Seeds discography. At the onset of the 2000s, Cave had essentially completed the transformation from being an artist who would soundtrack your funeral into one who could provide the firstdance song at your wedding; No More Shall We Part marks that pivotal moment where Cave regains the sensation in his red right hand. "}