{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16587/homepage_large.29ce8f73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Mickey Newbury","title":"An American Trilogy","text":" The years preceding the American Bicentennial were especially good ones in Nashville. Not only did country music graduate from a rather large niche market to the mainstream, but the talent on the city's periphery began to insinuate itself into the center, as songwriters like Guy Clark, Kris Kristofferson, Donnie Fritts, and Willie Nelson attracted so much attention that the scene became known as the \"New Nashville.\" In practice, this group of musicians raised hell all over town and wrote aching songs with unpretentiously poetic lyrics, passing their compositions up the ranks for royalties and notoriety. A few became stars in their own right: Nelson's Red Headed Stranger was a critical and commercial hit, and Kristofferson became the scene's sex symbol. But some of the most talented songwriters simply faded into the background, with albums that were invariably praised by critics but largely ignored by listeners. Despite a robust voice and a thoughtful way with medleys, Larry Jon Wilson retreated to Augusta, Georgia, but managed a comeback just prior to his death last year. Mickey Newbury, disgusted with industry politics in Nashville, absconded to the mountains of Oregon, releasing albums on his own label until his death in 2002 (his final record, A Long Road Home, was recorded between oxygen treatments for emphysema). Some of the scene's success can be attributed to Newbury, a Houston native who wrote hits for Tom Jones, Don Gibson, and Kenny Rogers (if you've heard \"Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In)\", then you've heard Newbury). He also hung around with and influenced a younger generation of local songwriters, many of them similarly Lone Star expats; you can hear him in Kristofferson's sing/speak phrasing and in Nelson's complex narrative undertakings. Even today, he remains a songwriter's songwriter, lionized by a new generation of musicians including Will Oldham, Nick Cave, and the Black Swans' Jerry DeCicca (who says he got the job producing Wilson's 2009 comeback album based on his thorough knowledge of Newbury's catalog). Drag City's new bundle of reissues which includes three albums plus a set of rarities from the late 1960s and early 70s, released separately on vinyl and together in a 4xCD set titled An American Trilogy portrays Newbury as a man out of time and out of place, even among his friends in the New Nashville scene. With his gently grainy voice and folksy phrasing, he was country more by proximity than by sound, and he incorporated jazz, R&B, and folk elements into his forwardthinking music. These three LPs are all heady concept albums of a sort, sequenced to create and sustain a particular mood of grievous loss and precarious composure. Newbury conceived them specifically as a trilogy examining his own romantic past as well as the country's contentious history, and 40 years later, they sound just as imaginative, evocative, and emotional as ever. Looks Like Rain, from 1969, was actually Newbury's second album. Just a few years prior, RCA had paired him with a producer who lent his songs a tooslick sheen that Newbury detested. When he rerecorded them, he kept closer control on the music, casting the songs as spare, lonely ruminations on lost love and lost opportunities and barely masking his own depression. But there's always dignity in his despondency, and there's always something rumbling in the background of these albums: the crisp guitar and ghostly doowop vocals on \"33rd of August/When the Baby in My Lady Gets the Blues\", the otherworldly choir on \"San Francisco Mable Joy\", the mournful harmonica on \"Looks Like Baby's Gone\". There's real space on these albums, which are so lonesome and introverted that Newbury's flourishes of sound are less an accompaniment to his vocals than his fond memory of music halfremembered. Looks Like Rain is, quite literally, rainyday music. The songs are interspersed with samples of a downpour, which reinforces the sense of backporch reverie. It ought to be corny as hell, a tired gimmick meant to literalize certain aspects of the songwriting. The effect, however, not only allows the album to cohere into a listeninonesitting experience, but reinforces the emotional alienation of these songs. Newbury liked the idea so much that he repeated it on subsequent albums a musical element as distinctive as an artist's signature on a canvas. Those interludes and other musical flourishes stitch these albums together as a whole effort, not inseparable but certainly more powerful in each other's proximity. Another of Newbury's signatures was his fascination with old American songs. Arguably his biggest hit was \"An American Trilogy\", a medley from 1971's 'Frisco Mabel Joy that interlaced \"Dixie\", \"Battle Hymn of the Republic\", and \"All My Trials\". It was at that time a contentious piece of music: At the tail end of the civil rights movement, there were calls to ban \"Dixie\" for its slavery connotations and sympathies, although Elvis Presley's overthetop Vegas cover helped dispel some of that controversy. Newbury's arrangement is conceptually fascinating, as it pairs a southern song written by a northerner with a slave spiritual imported from the Caribbean. Musically, however, it sounds overly serious and antiquated, almost quaint more an artifact from the period than a durable piece of music. And yet, \"An American Trilogy\" reveals Newbury's complex approach to songwriting and album sequencing: Every word or line or stanza or song complements the others and shades their meanings, contributing crucially to the whole. On all of these albums, his songs shift and melt into other songs, creating thoughtful medleys and often devastating juxtapositions such as the onetwo punch of \"How Many Times (Must the Piper Be Paid For His Song?)\" and the gorgeous synth theme of \"Interlude\". That means songs like the relatively spry \"T. Total Tommy\" on Looks Like Rain and \"Why You Been Gone So Long\" on 1973's Heaven Help the Child stand out all the more strongly for being so selfcontained. On the other hand, it means Better Days, a disc of demos, live recordings, and rarities, sounds particularly jarring in this set for not cohering into a more powerful whole. The songs themselves are strong, in particular a version of \"Why You Been Gone So Long\" that rivals Johnny Darrell's hit version, but they work primarily as songs, not as pieces of a larger whole. When he was living in Nashville and even after he headed as far west as he could go, Newbury strove to capture something larger and more powerful than a song or even an album. This handsome set doesn't suggest exactly what he was trying to find, only that he never found it. That fate adds another layer of melancholy to these monumentally sad songs, but leavens any sense of depressiveness by showing us Newbury's obvious creative zeal. It's that sense of discovery, coupled with his unflagging belief in the purity of a wellcrafted song, that makes these albums resonate as powerfully today as they ever did. "}