{"label":" Home of the Rebels","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16595/homepage_large.630d0399.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"The Most Serene Republic","title":"Pre Serene: Thee Oneironauts","text":" \"The smartest thing a record label can do is sign a bunch of kids at 19, and then trick them into documenting their lives for the next six to 10 years.\" So mused Ryan Lenssen, a founding member of the Most Serene Republic, upon the release of the band's most accomplished record, 2009's ...And The Ever Expanding Universe. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Lenssen was 19 when the Most Serene Republic began releasing their take on baroque, kitchensink pop, in the process becoming the became the first nonBroken Social Scenerelated project to sign to Arts & Crafts. Now they dig back into their vault to remaster and release eight tracks from Thee Oneironauts, a band that Lenssen and two other members of the Republic played in when they were 18. The resulting collection, Pre Serene: Thee Oneironauts, is as gawky as a middle school yearbook photo: It sounds like it was made by teenagers who play immoderate amounts of Zelda, like to write songs about 1980s movies that they think are really awesome, and do not yet feel the artistic need to disguise or complicate either of those artistic impulses. O sweet, guileless youth. Thee Oneironauts shows that even at an age when most wouldbe musicians are fiddling with distortion pedals and refining their teen angst, current Republic members Lenssen, Adrian Jewett, and Nick Greaves (along with nonRepublican Emily Hunt) were always in the business of bleeding heart earnestness and ornate compositions. Unfortunately, Thee Oneironauts were unable to unite either of those things in intriguing ways, and this collection of their recordings comes off as skittish, cluttered, and excessively maudlin. \"Today Is the Day\" sounds like the work of a young band equally enamored with the Postal Service and the fact that synths can sometimes sound like rocket ships, while the tone and lyrics of the unreasonably long \"St. Germain\" aim for romantic but miss the mark. We now know that these guys would later develop into better songwriters, but this record doesn't offer much evidence in support. Still, Thee Oneironauts' most cringeworthy moment, \"Zoltar Speaks\" (yes, it's a song told from the point of view of Tom Hanks' character in Big) serves as a pithy thematic summary: This is a document of the anxieties of growing up. It's full of the sort of details and feelings that few of us sensible grownups would commit to tape (the lyrics to \"The Breath\" sound like facts that the band members memorized for their high school history class: \"1896: the first movie shown/ 1912: the Titanic went down\"), and there's a certain charm to a document like that. But this one is something that only very loyal fans of the band will be able to appreciate; the rest will probably be left wondering why they took these recordings out of the vault in the first place. "}