{"label":" Monkeywrench","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16604/homepage_large.19480e0c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Eddie Vedder","title":"Ukulele Songs","text":" If you include the soundtrack album he recorded for Into the Wild, Ukulele Songs is only Eddie Vedder's second solo album. Considering the size and devotion of his cult, coupled with Pearl Jam's \"No, you really shouldn't have\" overgenerosity when it comes to releases, it's remarkable he hasn't put out five by now. This makes Ukulele Songs even more of a curiosity: As its title makes clear, the album consists of 16 tracks of Vedder pawing the tiny, fourstringed Hawaiian instrument and warbling love songs. That's it. In a way, it's as clearcut a proposition as you're going to get these days. You either instantly know you need 35 minutes of this in your life or are already backing slowly away. The songs themselves date back, in some cases, 10 years or more presumably from around the same time Vedder wrote \"Soon Forget\", the twominute ukulele ditty from Binaural. The rest of the songs occupy that same headspace. They are casual, sweet, and disarmingly unaffected, and you can practically smell the campus green wafting off them. That Vedder is putting Ukulele Songs out during this Big Blowout Year of Pearl Jam (Documentary! Festival! Reissue! Tour!) makes it seem even less of a solo project and more like a a souvenir for longtime Pearl Jam fans. It works best that way. Indeed, in small doses, Ukulele Songs is lovely. Vedder has always been affecting when he's lovelorn, and here he's more or less curled up in a ball of bewildered hurt. \"As I move myself out of your sight/ I'll be sleeping by myself tonight,\" he croons on \"Sleeping By Myself\". The album's best moments \"Sleeping By Myself\", \"Without You\", \"Longing to Belong\" tap the same quietly wounded melancholy as Paul McCartney's 1971 protoindie pop masterpiece Ram. Alas, 34 minutes is a perilously long time for most to to spend alone with just Eddie Vedder, a ukulele, and his feelings for company. Vedder's precious side has never been his best one (see: No Code's \"Sometimes\"), and Ukulele Songs is so determinedly twee and relentlessly selfeffacing that it can feel like watching a grown man attempting to morph into a baby koala before your eyes. By itself, hearing Chan Marshall playing Bernadette Peters to Vedder's Steve Martin for the duet \"Tonight You Belong to Me\" is winning and funny; in the context of a full ukulele album, it is slightly cloying. Vedder has said he wants this record to inspire people to pick up the instrument and sing with their friends, an oldfashioned sentiment impossible not to be charmed by. Like a lot of Vedder's experiments, the spirit is easier to admire than the final product. The ukulele might be a great campfire instrument, but sometimes what works best at the campfire should stay there. "}