{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16607/homepage_large.e27ec125.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Helado Negro","title":"Canta Lechuza","text":" Roberto Lange makes Latintinged electrofolk music under the name Helado Negro (Spanish for \"black ice cream\") and a recent stint the woods of Connecticut seems to have had a curious impact on his music. Most of Canta Lechuza (which translates as \"Owl Singing\"), the second fulllength offering from the Helado Negro moniker, feels like something of a oneman vacation. The compositions conjure images of lanternlit patio parties and lightly narcotized cometgazing, with less focus on the folkier aspects that shaped his debut, Awe Owe. From the outside looking in, Canta Lechuza shares something with Destroyer's latest LP, Kaputt. Like the latter record, Canta Lechuza finds an artist ignoring his established pastoral leanings while sailing into smoother waters in a style that touches on kitsch. But instead of Bejar's ornate, romantic bluster, Lange is more interested in negative space, noise, and subtlety starryeyed crooning, celestial background textures, and slinky rhythms crafted around bass plinks and plunks that seem to have been stolen from some Barcelona nightclub and slowed to a crawl. But back to all that noise. Lange is clearly in the mood to experiment, letting more traditional instruments take a backseat while he fiddles with electronic equipment, peppering nearly every track with whirs, burrs, clicks, and clacks. He occasionally takes time to build distinct grooves from all these little pieces (\"Cenar en La Manana\"), but more often than not, his fiddling is distracting. It's such a pleasure getting wrapped up in the dreamy ethers of a song like \"Lechuguilla\", you can't help but feel a bit slighted by the fact that Lange didn't choose to dial it back a bit. Not all of the experimentation is quite so invasive. This is, after all, a record that was composed in the wilds, and Lange's ability to channel his surroundings affords Canta Lechuza an important transportive quality. \"El Oeste\" concludes with a serrated swell that recalls a summer thunderstorm, while \"Calculas\" features lightning bug synth flashes. Best of all are the heavily processed blurts on \"Oreja De Arena\", which provide Lange with what sounds like a belching bullfrog as a backup singer. When Lange goes with the flow and allows elements like this to permeate his music, Canta Lechuza is at its best. "}