{"label":" Our Mouth","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16596/homepage_large.ff1891a8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Sightings","title":"Future Accidents","text":" When I reviewed Mouthus' Divisionals two years ago, I called them \"professionals.\" Not every record they make is a masterpiece, but they always deliver diligent, worthwhile music. The same is true of Sightings, whose latest LP happens to be released on Our Mouth, the label run by Mouthus' Brian Sullivan. The two bands have lots of similarities each takes a workmanlike approach to its music, each has a patience that makes even its wildest moments sound thoughtful, and each relies on a uniquely dissonant guitar sound and hybrid acoustic/electronic drumming. Most importantly, both like to carve structures out of their noise. Their brittle feedback and clanging rhythms can be harsh, but even their most abstract stuff is carefully shaped. On recent Sightings albums, those shapes have become more prominent. 2007's Through the Panama even had some hummable tunes, and 2010's City of Straw continued that momentum. On Future Accidents, Sightings are less concerned with short, sharp nuggets. There is one track the churning, hardcoretinted \"The Knotted House\" that pours its energy into a fiveminute burst. But the remainder of the album is more expansive. Its sounds as if some particular ideas were itching at Sightings, and they decided to scratch away until music bled out. That may sound brutal, but this is actually their mellowest effort to date. Other Sightings records, particularly 2004's Arrived in Gold, are sparser and more restrained, but Future Accidents has the smoothest surface. Mark Morgan's trademark guitar sound, a singularly metallic scrape, is a bit more distant here. Think of it and his snarling voice as the supporting cast to the starring rhythmic loops of bassist Richard Hoffman and drummer Jon Lockie. It may be a stretch to call this Sightings' Krautrock album, but there are some grooves here, and the band rides them as if hypnotized. At least, there's something Faustlike about the final track, \"Public Remains\", which at 19 minutes takes up about half of Future Accidents. However it came together, it sounds chopped up and rearranged, echoing some of the rattling, brokenmachine collages on The Faust Tapes. It's one of the most abstract things the band has ever done even their early attacks had songs buried at the bottom, while this piece is more like audio sculpture. But it's also detailed and organized, again bearing a methodical approach that, for this group, has become second nature. Which makes the album title kind of funny with Sightings, it's hard to imagine anything being an accident, now or in the future. "}