{"label":" DFA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16617/homepage_large.b7dc489d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Perpetua","artist":"Planningtorock","title":"W","text":" It's easy to understand why Janine Rostron, the multimedia artist known as Planningtorock, has become a frequent collaborator of the Knife. In aesthetic terms, they're on a very similar wavelength. They both gravitate toward tense rhythms and a particular timbre in their keyboard parts that is at once totally menacing and vaguely cheesy. They both integrate elements of theater and performance art into their live shows. Most obviously, Rostron and Knife singer Karin Dreijer Andersson share a fascination with inhabiting male characters and exploring masculinity in their songs, to the point of pitching their voices down into a grotesque parody of manliness. Rostron does this trick on \"Doorway\", the opening track of her second fulllength album, W, and the result is a song that could easily pass for an outtake from the Knife's Silent Shout. This is a compliment, to a point. Silent Shout is a remarkable album, so it's a flattering if somewhat superficial comparison. At the same time, that record is so singular and selfcontained that there may not be need for anything else to sound like it, including future music by the Knife themselves. Rostron is a lot more interesting the further she gets from the sound of the Dreijer siblings. She established a distinct aesthetic on her debut, Have It All, and that style carries over to a large chunk of W. In these songs, she sings in a bold, sexually assertive style over riffs played on cello or keyboards. In one of her best recordings, a string arrangement of \"Think That Thought\" from the Have It All Stringed Up EP, she ends up sounding almost exactly like Robert Plant singing over a string quartet. She still recalls Plant here and there on W, but this time around, she's a bit closer to Annie Lennox, another female vocalist with a confident, soulful style and an androgynous tone. \"The Breaks\", W's atmospheric centerpiece, showcases this quality. Her voice is the most dynamic sound in the song, sketching out a complex mix of conflicting emotions while the rest of the arrangement settles into a sad, mellow keyboardhorn groove. It's a quietly compelling piece of music intensely passionate yet strangely subdued. She's even more impressive on the album highlight \"I Am Your Man\", a twitchy showstopper with an ironic, genderbending perspective and an earnest, lovestruck sentiment. In this song, masculinity is invoked more than it is critiqued. It's a celebration of being forthright and aggressive, of being bold enough to pursue someone with the firm belief that you're the right person for them. It's not that different from, say, Jeff Tweedy singing \"I'm the Man Who Loves You\", but Rostron's gender flip brings an intriguing tension to the mix. Is this the person she wants? Is this the person she wants to be? There are other fine songs on W the tense disco track \"Living It Out\", the sultry \"Manifesto\" but as a whole, the record doesn't quite gel. The songs generally sound better out of context. This makes some sense. Though the pieces have a lot of musical similarities, each comes across as a discrete composition with its own set of ideas. In that way, W feels less like a pop album and more like a gallery show. "}