{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16608/homepage_large.b8e6a2e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Oneida","title":"Absolute II","text":" In 2009 the Flaming Lips invited Oneida to play at a day they were curating at an ATP festival in upstate New York. That pairing felt like an inevitable convergence of likeminded talents two similarly wayward outfits naturally coming together. Both have gone though stages of latecareer reinvention, both have a fondness for repetitive psychedelic rock music played loud, and both have demonstrated scant regard for conventional career trajectories. At that point Oneida were two albums deep into a proposed trilogy titled Thank Your Parents. The fact that they decided to play a 12hour set, complete with a double drummer assault from Lips sticksmen Steven Drozd and Kliph Scurlock at one point, made a strange kind of sense. It felt like Oneida were in the process of untethering themselves from their own sound, of cutting loose common constructs that had been threaded through their prior work. In Absolute II, the third and final segment of Thank Your Parents, that evolution has been taken to its most farout point yet. Of all the strands that make up the trilogy, which began with Preteen Weaponry in 2008 and continued with the triple album Rated O in 2009, this is the one that makes least sense as a standalone item. It's very much a part of a greater whole, a logical if somewhat obtuse and reflective way to enter the comedown phase after the wild diversity of the previous installment. With all three pieces slotted together, it's easier to process the other material. The studio trickery and dubinfluenced tunes of Preteen Weaponry, which was split into three songs but designed to be listened to as a continuous track, now feels like a perfect easein entry point to the sprawl of Rated O. But finding a similar way in to Absolute II takes some work. There are no drums here and barely any vocals. Anything that could be defined as \"traditional\" instrumentation is largely absent. Initially, it feels impenetrable. Almost everything is locked in stasis, with tiny phrases and pulses occasionally prickling to the surface. As such, it's firmly rooted in the minimalist tradition. Steve Reich's \"Pendulum Music\" is a touchstone, as is Philip Glass's \"1+1\". At times it bears a similar textural heft to Brian Eno's work with Harold Budd on their The Plateaux of Mirror collaboration. In terms of eyebrowraising deviations in style it's not dissimilar to the arcane moods of Scott Walker's Tilt and The Drift. Like Preteen Weaponry this isn't an album that needed to be divided into individual tracks, although there are four of them, beginning with \"Pre Human\". The opening is built around a single repeating keyboard riff that's lightly distorted and sounds not unlike something Martin Rev from Suicide might have left on the cutting room floor around the time of their first album. It feels like a reflex shift out of the jagged edges of Rated O and into calmer waters, especially when it relaxes into solitary organ drones and droplets of waterlike piano plinks. But the mood of Absolute II oscillates somewhere between turmoil and ease, with the stretched out tones of \"Pre Human\" ultimately congealing into the hostile atmosphere of \"Horizon\". Here, the solitary vocal lines on the album are cut so they speak a curious unlanguage, which is set to aggressive machine noise that feels like a feverish itch prickling away under the skin. It's the dark side of Eno's dream for ambient, or the notion of Erik Satie's \"furniture music\" gone horribly wrong. Something that should sink into the background is ultimately turned on its head and shoved in your face instead. \"Horizon\" is painful at high volume, and it's most likely designed to be listened to that way. From there \"Gray Area\" continues in much the same vein, with its clanging guitar motif ratcheting up the inhospitable atmosphere. It's like Oneida have locked you out of their world and are making it as difficult as they can for you to reenter. This isn't music as escapism, it's music as challenge and provocation. Even the closing title track, which is all hushedout generator hum and occasional murmurs of instrumentation, falls loosely into the same kind of disconcerting atmosphere as the incidental music to David Lynch's Eraserhead. Oneida are often talked about as a band that should have reached a wider audience, but they won't achieve that here, and they don't seem to care. They're a group whose music takes a great deal of time to sink in, where the process of evaluation slowly unravels over years and months rather than days and minutes. It's the reason why their album Each One Teach One, which is nine years old, is only now being fully unpacked and canonized as a major piece of work. Thank Your Parents will take an equivalent span of time to reveal its secrets, especially as this final part is likely to be met with a large degree of bafflement on first listen. But taken as a concluding piece of a larger body of work, as this is intended to be heard, it's a fiercely individual statement to end this chapter in Oneida's unique history. "}