{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16614/homepage_large.fab30af4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Witch Gardens","title":"Alice, Agatha, Branch & Christ","text":" Right before virtually the entire music industry descended upon Seattle in the fall of 1991, flinging wads of cash at anyone wearing flannel and carrying a guitar case, a different part of Washington's Puget Sound area was the site of a smaller but still influential cultural event. In late August of that year, indierock godfather Calvin Johnson organized the International Pop Underground Convention in Olympia, a sixday festival that housed a vast array of DIYminded bands, from the Spinanes to Fugazi. The 20th anniversary of the convention is coming up in a matter of weeks, and it's tempting to speculate which of today's bands would make the lineup if it were held in 2011. With their funloving brand of lofi guitar pop, Seattle's Witch Gardens would be a very appropriate choice. Guitarist Casey Catherwood has been involved in Seattle's doityourself music scene for almost decade, including a stint writing the Underage column for The Stranger. Given those bona fides, the light cloud of tape hiss that floats above the bright melodies on Alice, Agatha, Branch & Christ feels like a genuine homage to direct forebears such as Beat Happening and the Vaselines, using those bands' playful artlessness to create eight infectious tunes detailing the joys and trials of youth. On \"So Many Parties\", after a false start and a tempo change, bass player Beth Corry, drummer Sara Beabout, and autoharpist Karolyn Kukoski capture the histrionics of a heartsick teenager standing in the corner of a birthday party: \"Here is not my home/ I'd rather die than be here alone,\" they sing. \"Softball Chick\" contains a hiphopinspired callandresponse that's charming rather than ironic a Nicki Minaj or Trinalike assertion of female empowerment readjusted for the indiepop set. Each song on the brief album stands out as a unique pop composition, and several are split into movements, with frequent key and tempo changes. The intro to \"Small Daring Boy\" is the closest the record comes to a melancholy moment, but even that track shuffles back and forth between tempos, eventually making way for a driving, climactic finish that expresses heartbreak through a sweetly sung round (the lyrics: \"You were never good to me like I was good to you\"). The only real miscue comes from the sequencing of bouncy closer \"Baby Got a Haircut\", which would have been more fitting as an opening track. But that's only a small error among the treats available on Alice, Agatha, Branch, & Christ, an album that can stand proudly beside the work of the indiepop heroes of yesteryear. "}