{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16613/homepage_large.6f4102b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Black Lips","title":"Arabia Mountain","text":" There comes a time in every rock'n'roll band's career when they have to decide whether to get out of the garage or stay mired in the grease. Black Lips seem to want it both ways. With the release of their fourth studio album, 2007's Good Bad Not Evil, the Atlanta rockers saw their audience expand well beyond the garagepunk underground, thanks to a new alliance with Vice that yielded fawning New York Times profiles, Conan O'Brien appearances, and Virgin Mobile ad placements. At the time, a Hivessized crossover success didn't seem out of the question, but the Lips seemed to handily kibosh that possibility with 2009's 200 Million Thousand, a sprawling mess that seemed designed to prove Black Lips could still outscuzz and outslop the lowest of the lofi. The band's decision to record Arabia Mountain with Amy Winehouse producer Mark Ronson is surprising, not because they're at odds aesthetically the two camps do share an affinity for 1960s retro recording techniques but because of the timing: hooking up with an Alist producer is the sort of move that would've made more sense two years ago, to capitalize on Good Bad Not Evil's mainstreambreaching momentum. But whether they're responding to Vice's vocal dissatisfaction with 200 Million Thousand or following the example of their late friend Jay Reatard whose 2009 swan song Watch Me Fall saw him cleaning up his buzzsawpop sound without compromising his essence Black Lips seem more eager to play ball this time around. And unlike previous cautionary examples of garagerock bands teaming up with Top 40 hitmakers (the Hives and Pharrell, the Mooney Suzuki and the Matrix), Ronson thankfully doesn't try to make Black Lips into something they're not. Though an early single had the loaded title \"New Direction\", Arabia Mountain sticks to the same Nuggetsstyle playbook that's governed all previous Black Lips releases. Ronson, who produced nine songs and mastered another two recorded with Deerhunter's Lockett Pundt, simply gives the band the most faithful faux60s production money can buy. If anything's changed here, it's Black Lips' point of emphasis on the Nuggets spectrum: Arabia Mountain draws less from the sinister psychedelia of the 13th Floor Elevators or the deranged blues of early Beefheart, and more from the togapartyrockin' likes of the Sonics and the Premiers. So it favors the more amiable aspects of 60s garage frathouserocking saxophones, songs inspired by comicbook superheroes and baseball mascots, and grooooovy singing saw over antiauthoritarian attitudes and fuzzbox abuse. Black Lips have never been shy about showing off their playful side, but in the past, these moments (Let It Bloom's poignant, poorboy ballad \"Dirty Hands\", Good Bad Not Evil's outsider anthem \"Bad Kids\", 200 Million Thousand's soberup pledge \"Starting Over\") nicely complemented their more raucous raveups, revealing a sincere softer side to the band's notorious delinquent image. With Arabia Mountain exuding a mostly cheeky and cheerful demeanor, you do lose some of the oppositional tension between innocence and insolence that always distinguished Black Lips from the garagepunk pack. And with a somewhat bloated 16song tracklist, the album's abundance of openroof Thunderbird anthems \"Go Out and Get It\", \"Time\", \"New Direction\" starts to feel somewhat interchangeable. But Arabia Mountain's chiseled production and considerably tighter songcraft provides a better forum for showcasing the band's subversive sense of humor. The best songs here play up the dichotomy between their retro sound and modern preoccupations: bad acid trips at the Louvre (the Yardbirdsish freakbeater \"Modern Art\"), exotic fad diets (the breezy Beach BoysviaRamones romp \"Raw Meat\"), and postrecession survival tactics (the spoton countryStones sendup \"Dumpster Diving\"). And in anticipation of those oldschool fans who might view Arabia Mountain as a calculated act of careerism, the Lips throw a lategame curveball with the queasy closer \"You Keep on Running\", a creepy hauntedhouse trawl that finds Cole Alexander issuing the title's warning in a highpitched squeal that's equally unnerving and silly. Its inclusion sends a nonetoosubtle message to anyone who thinks they've got Black Lips all figured out: Arabia Mountain may be poised to push this band further overground, but they're not going up without a fight. "}