{"label":" Mad Decent","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16619/homepage_large.fc8015a7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Blow Your Head Vol. 2: Dave Nada Presents Moombahton","text":" Velocity is destiny: two \"new\" dance subgenres getting attention in 2011 offer almost opposite perspectives on the effects of playing records at the wrong tempo. From Holland comes \"bubbling,\" a jittery, uptempo skitter with origins in the late 1980s, born from spinning dancehall records too fast. Meanwhile, in 2009 U.S. DJ Dave Nada slowed down Dutch house records to 108 beats per minute until the music (already partCaribbeanized) uncannily resembled the throbbing pulse of reggaeton. Add cutup Latin vocals, dem bow offbeats, crisp and seemingly endless drum rolls, and a bevy of obvious samples, and a new genre is born. \"Moombahton\" takes its name from the Afrojack remix of Silvio Ecomo and DJ Chuckie's \"Moombah\" (the \"ton\" comes from reggaeton), but the idea is expressed most succinctly in Nada's remix of Sidney Samson's Afrojacklike anthem \"Riverside\". On the latter, the original's grating siren synth attack transmuted into a bleepy melody of unbearable tension. It's tempting to assume that transcending this simple gimmick would be necessary for moombahton to produce anything of lasting worth, but that's not the case. As Nada's new mix Blow Your Head Vol. 2 (for Diplo's Mad Decent label) proves, there's nothing wrong with a decent gimmick. In fact, moombahton works by treating everything as a gimmick. Just as big beat reduced both rap and rave to sample toolkits to be mined for maximum party hijinks, moombahton usually treats its Latin and Caribbean affectations as ruthlessly as it does house records. At times it's hard to say just who is spiking whom: As well as raw source material, the house components of moombahton paradoxically act as a stylistic destabilizer, like a returning comet throwing the music out of orbit. Take Sabo's remix of Dennis Ferrer's strobing vocal house anthem \"Hey Hey\", wherein the original's sharp counterrhythm becomes a desultory strut around which Sabo weaves an exquisite rumpshaker groove. If anything, Blow Your Head Vol. 2, which gathers together a selection of tracks from moombahton's key producers, is at its weakest when the tunes veer too close to naturalizing their influences, and risk sounding too comfortable with themselves. Munchi's \"Sandungueo\" could easily be a malnourished, thuggish dub of an actual reggaeton record. Conversely, \"Gal Where Yuh Come From\" by Nadastrom (a duo of Nada and Matt Nordstrom) squeezes out just the right amount of estrangement from the music it mimics via an ominous rap from Jamaican DJ Natalie Storm, whipcrack snares, and a murky, dubspacious arrangement. Nada pays respect to moombahton's roots by including cuts from ancestral reggaeton rapper El General and Shabba Ranks' \"Dem Bow\", but the best inclusions here work their magic by wearing these influences lightly and setting their sights more broadly. On tracks \"Masta Blasta\", \"Broken Hearts\", and \"Que Que\", Dillon Francis has developed a bevy of tricks stuttering electro kicks; woozy and disorienting synth lines that fuse European slither with Caribbean bounce. It would be meaningless, not to mention faintly ridiculous, to start talking about \"sophisticated\" or \"experimental\" moombahton, in part because the music is so rigorously partyfocused. But there's also a stylistic restlessness that makes Blow Your Head Vol. 2 a more surprising listen than you might expect. The mix closes with Nadastrom's remix of Win Win's \"Rleleaserpm\", which could be a dancefloor renegade from the latest Gang Gang Dance album (in fairness, that is GGD's Lizzie Bougatsos on vocals). Crucially, this gorgeously sunny number never sounds impressed with its own unexpectedness: In the middle of moombahton's nononsense party vibes, pretty much anything is up for grabs. "}