{"label":" International Feel","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16621/homepage_large.a4c4c104.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"DJ Harvey","title":"Locussolus","text":" Harvey Bassett has had a long and idiosyncratic career in dance music, one that speaks as much to the necessity of scene and tastemakers in that sphere as actual musicians. At least partially responsible for the spread of influential house and disco sounds to England, the Cambridgeborn Bassett spent the 1990s booking DJs like Larry Levan in London and holding supposedly awesome residencies at a handful of influential clubs. These days, Bassett resides in Los Angeles where he hosts his epic, inviteonly Sarcastic Disco parties. Suffice to say that if it was dance music and it was created in the 1980s or 1990s, Bassett was on that shit before you. Not that Bassett wasn't making music as well; he was just doing so sporadically and seemingly in deference to his career as a partystarter of unimpeachable taste. DJ Harvey Presents Locussolus represents the first time in Bassett's 20year career that a fulllength CD of his work will be available (he released a Late Night Sessions mix for London's Ministry of Sound in 1996). (It's a fitting title, \"Locus Solus\" being the private estate of a mad scientist in Raymond Roussel's novel of the same name.) It's not a proper album not even particularly close rather a collection of the three Locussolus 12\"s he has released since 2010. One new track, \"Bloodbath\", and remixes by the likes of Andrew Weatherall and Lindstrom & Prins Thomas round out the collection. Sequenced cleverly, Locussolus actually functions well as a long player. If you close your eyes and forget the track titles, the fact that \"Gunship\" is just one track removed from a remix of itself makes it sound more like a variation on a theme rather than CD padding. Bassett is all over the dance music map, but he mostly sticks to the sounds of mid80s electro and house, with heavy doses of Ze Records hippiedust. It is a beguiling and slippery mix. During Weatherall's dubby \"Gunship\" remix, as a lunatic rants about hams in the middle of the street (20 listens later and I'm still flipping a coin to decide if this is a metaphor), I am certain I am listening to electronic music and that DJ Harvey made this music, but little else. Locussolus isn't immersive; rather, it commands your attention without making a fuss about it. \"I Want It\" checks of most of the \"classic house\" boxes thick, salty basslines, insistent kick drums, reverberating synth pads but Bassett's banal, circular backandforth with a female voice gives the track life as it morphs into a (G)funky strut. \"Tan Sedan\" steams forward as a scifi floorfiller, its UFOsynths jamming languorously over its lockstep bassline. Bassett isn't a sonic radical, just a hip, studied craftsman unafraid to let his freak flag fly. For those of us not privy to Harvey's parties old or new Locussolus is a treat: a document of one of dance music's behindthescenes/decks allstars. That's where Harvey made his name, but this set proves that he has plenty to offer as a producer as well. A latecareer burst of activity would be welcome, but there's no use getting ahead of ourselves. Enjoy Locussolus for its loose, loving swagger, a rare transmission from inside Bassett's private, mad utopia. "}