{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16632/homepage_large.9fbf2f8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Fucked Up","title":"David Comes to Life","text":" Punk rock has had its share of ambitious bands producing ambitious records Double Nickels on the Dime, Zen Arcade, Sandinista!, and The Shape of Punk to Come spring to mind but few groups in this sphere have pushed the envelope as often as Fucked Up. For the last few years, they've been releasing singles as part of a series based on the Chinese Zodiac, each of which usually runs over the 10minute mark. For a 2007 charity Christmas single, they managed to get James Murphy, Nelly Furtado, and \"Degrassi: the Next Generation\"/\"90210\" actress Shenae Grimes (among many, many others) to appear on the same song; during a 12hour (!) NYC concert in 2008, they got moshers to smash along to Vampire Weekend's Ezra Koenig doing Descendents covers. Their reach continues unabated on their new album, David Comes to Life, a 78minute rock opera. The story of David Comes to Life is fairly complicated and, at points, heavily meta. It concerns a factory worker named David Eliade who falls in love with a woman named Veronica Boisson. They conspire to build a bomb together and death, destruction, and redemption follow; along the way, the story's narrator does battle with David for control of the plot. There's a long tradition of rock concept albums that aren't easy to understand, and this one is no exception; but enjoying it doesn't depend on decoding the tale. The record is divided into four separate acts, with a narrative focus that shifts from scene to scene a few songs are told from the overarching narrator's perspective, while David's exgirlfriend, Vivian Benson, offers her side of the story in the album's back half. While a few guest vocalists are employed to help out Cults' Madeline Follin and singer/songwriter Jennifer Castle represent Veronica and Vivian, respectively the story is largely told by the band's screaming frontman, Damien Abraham, aka Pink Eyes. Taking into account the album's relatively limited range almost an hour and a half of straightup bashing and riffage, with moments like the jangly acoustic figure that opens \"A Slanted Tone\" as a rare respite it becomes apparent that you will need a few listens and a lyric sheet to apprehend David Comes to Life's ambition and follow its labyrinthine storyline. Or, you could just sit back and let the record's dense, visceral blast of guitar squall wash over you. More than any single Fucked Up record, David Comes to Life is thick with walls of noisy melody. It's hard to get a handle on just how many guitar tracks are on a given song, and Shane Stoneback deserves a medal for mixing the sheer bulk of the sound into something so clear. But for all the shoegazey textures and blistering sonic assault, David Comes to Life is also direct and immediate. Hooks are piled on top of hooks, bursting through torrents of spacey noise (\"I Was There\") and peppy rhythms (\"The Recursive Girl\") alike. At points, the primal appeal of the blunt and effective riffing even brings to mind the barband rock of the Hold Steady. Out front, Abraham still retains his scorchedearth bark. He's been finding ways to broaden his voice's impact, and it's never sounded better than it does here. Abraham knows his range and limitations and is finding new ways to work within them while adjusting to the band's forward lurch, in effect becoming another instrument in the mix. His stomping melancholia on \"Turn the Season\" feels like a gutcheck, while he follows up his sole quiet moment on album closer \"Lights Go Up\" by shouting amidst curled screams, \"I'm still in love with you/ After all of this time!\" Besides the aforementioned appearances by Follin and Castle, Kurt Vile delivers a typically slack backing vocal on \"Lights Go Up\", too but, really, this is The Pink Eyes Show, and it's never been so compelling to watch. That said, all the howling and the album's extreme length might be a tough thing for those new to Fucked Up. For people in this category, it might be best to check out Hidden World first; it's a good representation of how fun and hooky Fucked Up are when they're in the zone, and in many ways it's a simpler, spiritual precursor to this record. Regardless, David Comes to Life is absolutely worth the commitment, a convincing demonstration of what can happen when a band works without limitations. "}