{"label":" Sugarcane","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16634/homepage_large.8099a402.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Processory","title":"Change Is Gradual","text":" Finland's Jori Hulkkonen and Jerry Valuri come from a long line of electronic musicians who, instead of focusing on either dance or experimental music, choose to put more emphasis on using traditional structures to craft dreamlit pop songs. On Change Is Gradual, their second fulllength release as Processory, Hulkkonen and Valuri are among a growing faction of revivalists taking their cues from the new romantic pop music of the 1980s. Processory's approach may be more straightforward, but like contemporaries the Tough Alliance, the goal is to write solid, accessible songs with an unusual bent, no matter what tools are at their disposal. There's something wonderfully familiar about these songs; you could swear that any number of subtle synth hooks and vocal turns have been patchedin from some reimagined Tears For Fears or Spandau Ballet track. Dramatic, distant and oddly sexual, Change Is Gradual sounds like a surrogate soundtrack to The Breakfast Club if Ally Sheedy's character were the only member. And yet, there's something very current in the touchstones the duo uses to get its point across. Drums sound suspended in a viscous liquid, Hulkkonen's vocals feel specterlike, and heliumtuned synths and celestial atmospherics rise and fall with a scope reminiscent of M83. But for all the retro touches, there are moments that feel positively futuristic for starters, the tellingly titled \"Human, Unfortunately\", which sounds like Sade for replicants, and \"Farewell, Welfare\", which features the booming voice of Big Brother monotonically rattling off a number of societal ills. The pair of songs that conclude the record (\"In the Unlikely Event of an All Life Erasing GammaRay Burst, This Is the Soundtrack\" and \"Adaptation For Survival\") give off an apocalyptic vibe that's also transportative: for all the earthbound carnality and desperation that floods the album, this strange final cosmic arc somehow manages to take you somewhere very far away. Still, you could probably attribute all this headtripping to the giddy exhaustion felt from listening to the whole thing in one sitting. Change Is Gradual is nearly as long as a feature film, and there's no getting around the fact that it can be daunting. But Hulkkonen and Valuri do their best to break up the frozen detachment, offering a few groovecentric detours. \"Take Me to Your Leader\" is a smoky, Balearictinged bodyrocker, and \"Recovery Measures\" glides and jukes with an appealing foreignness. As if that weren't enough, Change Is Gradual comes supported by three separate EPs, featuring remixes from heavyhitters like Hercules and Love Affair, CFCF, and Aeroplane. The result is yet another full hour of music. Fortunately, the reinterpretations here add needed bounce while still honoring the chilled minimalism of the originals. Hannulelauri makes the most of the opportunity, putting up a remix and a dub of highlight \"Recovery Measures\" that are both faithful yet movementminded; for pure batty fun, Pink Skull's funkstruck take on \"Take Me to Your Leader\" is the real keeper. Needless to say, Change Is Gradual not to mention the extras is a lot to digest, and it sometimes feels as if all this music has just mushed together in your brain. But Processory's ambition and hard work ultimately trumps the album's exhaustive length. "}