{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16633/homepage_large.86d9c9b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Our Lives Are Shaped By What We Love: Motown's MoWest Story 1971-1973","text":" Frankie Valli was one of the most successful pop artists of the 20th century. In addition to a successful solo career, his work with the Four Seasons resulted in an incredible 71 chart hits; more than half of these made the Top 40, and eight of them topped the charts. His hitmaking prowess even bucked the albumoriented trends of the Sgt. Pepper's era, but there were some hiccups along the way. One of the most notable was a stint with Motown's shortlived MoWest imprint in the early 1970s, where Valli found himself in a slump. After a few disappointing swings at the charts, Valli tried to release \"My Eyes Adored You\" in 1974. MoWest passed on the record. Valli released the song late that year as a solo artist on Private Stock Records, and it topped the Billboard Hot 100 by March of the following year, ending the artist's stint on the label and kickstarting a new era of success. This story is a microcosm of MoWest's inauspicious reign as the forgotten moment of one of the most iconic labels in the history of pop. The creation of the imprint was part of Berry Gordy Jr.'s gradual shift of Motown operations from Detroit to Los Angeles, away from the assemblyline production of the label's peak years. The HollandDozierHolland team had already departed, replaced in part by Norman Whitfield and a raft of superstar auteurs: Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder, Smokey Robinson, and Diana Ross. The shift to Los Angeles also marked the end of the singular Detroit sound, as the label became reliant on a rotating cast of session musicians. But even with all the upheaval, it's difficult to figure out why MoWest fell through the cracks; the music contained in Our Lives Are Shaped By What We Love: Motown's MoWest Story 19711973 is almost uniformly great. The compilation showcases a wide range of notable artists a 1971 Billboard article notes the label's purpose was to \"expand Motown's musical horizons\" at varying stages in their careers. It was an indisputably exciting time, creatively, for soul music, in the years before disco became a codified sound. Stevie Wonder, near the beginning of his incredible decadeplus solo creative run, does make a behindthescenes appearance on this compilation, producing the tracks from Syreeta's debut LP. Both are highlights. Odyssey, not to be confused with the disco group of the same name, contribute three songs; each, but particularly the uptempo fluteladen horndriven dance number \"Battened Ships\", is a compelling example of a kind of posthippie spiritual 70s soul. There are also early career appearances from future superstars the Commodores and Thelma Houston, whose \"I Ain't Going Nowhere\" includes an inspired vocal performance. Rock group Lodi, on the other hand, may have marked an attempt on Motown's part to move towards a psychedeliccumacidfolk sound, but their \"I Hope I See It in My Lifetime\" feels aimless, without the kind of memorable songwriting that defines the bulk of this compilation. Perhaps the best moment on the collection is one of the record's bestknown, at least to American dance floors. Although still an obscure cut by any reasonable standard, the Sisters Love's \"Give Me Your Love\" manages to completely reinvent Curtis Mayfield's original. With its heartdamaged vocals, the song manages a rare balance of driven vulnerability over an endless, inimitable groove. It's a strong document of the predisco era, but also an example of one way these oddities could endure (in this case, seeing a resurgence in a later floorfriendly edit), whatever its chart success. The primary common denominator here is that none of these artists sold well at the time. (MoWest's one hit in the United States, Tom Clay's \"What The World Needs Now Is Love\", is not included.) But whatever the commercial obstructions, the music certainly holds up. "}