{"label":" Rocket Science","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16640/homepage_large.83d80930.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Brent Hinds","title":"Fiend Without a Face/West End Motel","text":" Of all the members of metal gods Mastodon, Brent Hinds is the guy who looks most like a bloodthirsty Viking, which is saying something given the rest of the band's appearances. He also seems like an agreeably silly and approachable goofball who just likes to play. (Let us not forget his recent appearance in a burrito commercial.) That nottakingyourselftooseriously side is what comes across here. Fiend Without a Face and West End Motel are two of the guitarist/vocalist's outside projects, one newish and one longrunning, packaged here together as a valuepriced twofer. But if you fell in love with Mastodon's early, raw bloodandthunder, or got on board with their more recent cosmicscale progmetal epics, know that you won't be getting much of either here. Though Fiend Without a Face opens with a spazzy blast of guitar and some unhinged shrieking on \"Calypso\", it sounds more like early Meat PuppetsmeetQOTSA than your average hornthrowing extreme act. The rest of the album ventures into places even more surprising sometimes laughoutloud funny and sometimes heartonsleeve sad given Hinds' rep as a glowering shredder. Anyone with a fulltime band, especially one as musically demanding as Mastodon, who still has the energy to spearhead two other groups has to be a little musically restless and prone to compulsive songwriting. Hinds indulges here, stretching wildly across parched desertrock boogie, downandout country, even (whisper it) sprightly indieish guitar pop. There's a playfulness to both bands' material, especially the occasional deranged vocalizing and overall jamming vibe, but things never (or mostly never) stray into sloppiness. If anything, what unites the music here, at least the Fiend Without a Face material, is Hinds' manic virtuoso guitar playing. But instead of Priest theatrics or Sabbath crunch, we get a guitar that veers between rockabilly at warpspeed, surf music stripped of kitsch, 1960s chasescene scores, and amphetaminegrade country jangle. \"Tsunami\" even reminds me of the bright, jittery sound of the early Feelies. It's not all grins and crazy rhythms, though. The latterhalf, especially the offbrand Tom Waits barroom lament \"Under My Skin\", hews closer to country's cryingonthefloor side, and \"She's on Fire\" is just plain pretty altrock. This record is in no way a Crack the Skyestyle statement; its offthecuff amiability will probably be offputting to as many Mastodon heads as it is charming. It sounds like a lark, especially if you're expecting metal's cathartic roar, but even so, it's an undeniably fun lark. "}