{"label":" De Stijl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16647/homepage_large.d172bdab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Wet Hair","title":"In Vogue Spirit","text":" Wet Hair have a long and longwinded history as some of the Midwest's reigning vibe merchants. The Iowa City duo's members percussionist Ryan Garbes and keyboardist/vocalist Shawn Reed used to play in Raccoooooon, a sorely missed noiserock group that released three records and a handful of rambling, livetotape jam sessions before disbanding in 2008. Since then, Reed in particular has established a heavy underground presence, both through his Night People label (Peaking Lights, Dirty Beaches, Pocahaunted) and his hieroglyphicstyle visual art. Where Raccoooooon went heavy on spastic syncopation and postpunk guitar skree, Wet Hair have followed a mellower path. By patching rinkydink synths through a bevy of effects, they work up vintage krautrock haze on a DIY budget. The band's two albums have been heavy with luxuriant lofi drones and unhurried eightminute blissouts. This time around, they've opted to rein in the jams a little. Wet Hair's third LP, In Vogue Spirit, is its most straightforward batch of songs yet. Garbes and Reed temper their openended improv with the traditional stuff of rock: guitar riffs, deep bottom end, and propulsive rhythms. Album opener \"Echo Lady\" flows forward at full speed, powered by fuzzbass and motorik percussion beneath a wall of dizzying keyboard textures. It's In Vogue Spirit's immediate, headbobbing moment. After that, things only get weirder. On \"Tarantula\", a web of interlocking melodies spins over the distant rattle of a junkshop drum machine. Reed delivers his lyrics in a coolheaded, Alan Vegaworthy whisper, which is then further obscured by a cloud of echo. In their previous output, Garbes and Reed took heavy inspiration from the German electronic psychedelic music of the 1960s and 70s, but added a layer of earscorching grit inherited from the mid00s noise scene. On In Vogue Spirit, their reference points have drifted toward the dreamy pop moves of Silver Apples and Spacemen 3, as well as contemporary psychdroners like Moon Duo and Sun Araw. The headier compositions, \"Liquid Jesus\" and \"Cosmic Radio\", forgo distortion in favor of lush and dreamy texture. In both Raccoooooon and Wet Hair, Garbes and Reed have been uncompromising in their pursuit of the outer limits. They set up a table full of bangedup doodads, set the controls for the heart of the sun, and let it rip. That hasn't changed. But with In Vogue Spirit, Garbes and Reed have delivered a more consistent, considered record. Space is still the place, but they've found shortcuts to getting there. "}