{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16654/homepage_large.3a27d16d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Arrange","title":"Plantation","text":" \"Still can't feel much of anything,\" Malcom Lacey sings on \"Tearing Up Old Asphalt\", a slowburner from the South Floridian's first LP as Arrange, Plantation. With his soft voice awash in electronic hums and next to a tranquil piano line, you can almost believe him. But the claim seems mostly aspirational. His unassuming vocals quiver and crack with emotion, giving the impression not of a person who can't feel, but of one who must be cautious of feeling too much. That's a common symptom of being a teenager, which Lacey is. So it's extraimpressive that Plantation never goes over the top. Instead, this highly personalized fusion of dark indiepop and laptop ambient taps into volatile wellsprings of longing, resentment, and fear with controlled intensity. Plantation is very much a bedroom production. Often using either a cloud of tone or a simple piano figure as a base, Lacey fashions understated, compact hooks from guitar, vocal loops, and software synthesizers, and then rolls them out for just long enough to lodge them in memory before they vanish. As mentioned in a Playlist review of \"When'd You Find Me?\", Bright Eyes might wind up with something like Plantation if he judiciously added vocals to a Kompakt Pop Ambient sampler. But Lacey's vision is unique, and makes the album cohesive despite its piecemeal diversity. Many different touchstones flow into one retiring mood. Opening instrumental \"In Old Theaters\" has the stately drive of M83. The standout \"Tiny Little Boy\" nods to R&B with splashy mechanical drums and a soulfully lilting vocal performance. A techno influence becomes more pronounced in the back half: On \"Blinds with You\", a droning synth line soars and slumps with weary majesty over crisply staggered drums, and \"Veins\" owes an unabashed debt to the Field's slithering pulses. The blurry melodies of chillwave, the drafty space of dubstep, and the hypnotic repetitions of classical minimalism are all contextual influences. But everything blends into a unified voice thanks to Lacey's knack for thoughtful connective tissue and striking lyrical point of view. This is thoroughly a breakup record, but Lacey deals in implication and austerity. His perspective has a mature balance: He makes accusations that cut both ways, and then he questions them. We get not just the wounded heart and its grudges but the filter of the skeptical mind, watching from a critical distance. Plantation's recording quality is a little uneven, but that seems a small price to pay for the genuine intimacy that can occur when a young person holes up in a bedroom with a computer, a guitar, and his complex sorrow, figuring out on his own what can be made of it all. "}