{"label":" Reprise","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16655/homepage_large.bf8e6aba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Neil Young & International Harvesters","title":"Archives Performance Series Volume 9: A Treasure","text":" Neil Young spent the 1980s making more headlines than hits. He defended Ronald Reagan in interviews, skewered Pepsi and Budweiser in a video banned by MTV, and fought off lawsuits from his label, Geffen, over a string of stylistically divergent albums. One of these was Old Ways, a traditionalcountry throwback that wasn't too many cornfields removed from Young's starmaking 1972 release, Harvest. After some twists and turns that included 1982's synthpop transgression Trans and 1983's goofy 50s rock homage Everybody's Rockin', a radically revamped Old Ways eventually came out in 1985, between a couple of tours backed by a crack live band of countrymusic veterans called the International Harvesters. This shortlived group included longtime Young collaborators Ben Keith, Spooner Oldham, and Tim Drummond. The International Harvesters may not hold the same exalted status in the Neil Young story as Crazy Horse or the Stray Gators, but they get their proper due on the latest installment of Young's Archives Performance Series, which continues to defy all laws of chronology and numerical order. (A Treasure, the sixth set released in the series, is classified as Volume 9; it follows 2009's Dreamin' Man Live '92, aka Volume 12.) So far, the Archives Performance Series has mostly featured embryonic performances of what would become Young's bestknown work; A Treasure is the first entry to put the spotlight on a less celebrated stretch of his career. As such, this choppy compilation of Harvesters tour highlights allows us to reassess some of Young's 80s output outside its contentious context. Among all of Young's 80s genre exercises, the Harvesters country detour was the most musically in tune with his canonical turnofthe70s work. But Young shot that music through with a persona every bit as calculated as the skinnytied humanoid heard on Trans, or the ersatz Elvis seen on the cover of Everybody's Rockin'. For the Harvesters tour, Young wasn't so much playing country music as playing the role of a countrymusic singer: taking the stage in a HarleyDavidson ballcap, spouting overthetop proAmerica rhetoric in the press, and booking the band to play state fairs, rodeos, and variety TV shows instead of the usual bigmarket concert halls. Only Young knows how genuine his new image really was, but the recordings on A Treasury capture a very real desire to leave behind Geffen and the increasingly corporatized rock world by taking refuge in the heartland. Helped by the frenzied fiddling of Rufus Thibodeaux, the Harvesters transform Harvest warhorse \"Are You Ready for the Country\" from FMradio roadtrip anthem into an advertising jingle for their own Nashvillebound sound. (Yes, Old Ways' \"Get Back to the Country\" is included here, too.) And if Young's label and old fans were frustrated by his Music City makeover, the middle American audience ate it up. Autoindustry address \"Motor City\", from 1981's Reactor, may have originally been written in cranky character, but on A Treasure, an enthusiastic crowd receives its madeintheU.S.A. boosterism as gospel. However, unlike previous Archives Performance Series issues, A Treasure's set list pulls from a diverse, careerspanning range of sources. The collection stands less as a specific document of an elaborate \"fuck you\" directed at Geffen and more as a testament to Young's undiminished reputation as a fiery, inventive live performer even when he was releasing the weakest albums of his career. The standouts here are a pair of reworked obscurities: a gorgeous rendition of the Buffalo Springfield chestnut \"Flying on the Ground Is Wrong\" (written by Young but originally sung by Richie Furay) and a showstopping charge through \"Southern Pacific\" that upgrades the Reactor version's sluggish boogie into a banjopowered barnburner. A Treasure also boasts five previously unreleased tracks. Some of them could have easily been left in the bootleg bin, such as the cheeky tearinmybeer ballad \"Let Your Fingers Do the Walking\" and swinger \"Soul of a Woman\", which predicts later Young band Bluenotes. But others handily transcend the datedness of so much 80s Neil. The sweet serenades \"Amber Jean\" and \"Nothing Is Perfect\", for instance, could sit comfortably among the timeless, lowkey classics on 1978's Comes a Time, while the closing rager \"Grey Riders\" anticipates 1989 returntoform Freedom. All of which suggest that Young's greatest affront to Geffen in the 80s wasn't making subpar, \"unrepresentative\" albums. It was not giving the label the satisfaction of releasing his better efforts from the era. "}