{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1541/homepage_large.0db576b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Com.a","title":"Shot of Love","text":" Breakdancing for Gundams? Wild Style for pasty 8bit geeks? Make out music for toasters? Reviewing electronic music, you notice certain descriptions beg repeating as commonalities in various subgenres begin to show themselves; for example, elements of electro and/or hiphop cropped up on every IDM record released in the last year. Which is not to say things have grown stale, to suggest that tinkerers like Solar X and Team Doyobi whose sounds share common roots with Com.a's recent release on Tigerbeat6, the hydraulicsandbirthday cake Shot of Love are flogging a dead effects processor. It's more a cosmic coincidence that these artists refer back to the same points in their past, sharing common history through the technology that raised them. Now, they're old enough to apply this knowledge during twister and dodgeball.Shot of Love is Com.a's third solo disc since the disillusion of his former group, Rom=Pari. The beats here bring to mind a dozen artists, ranging from the unavoidable (Aphex Twin, Squarepusher) to the more selective (the first thing that came to mind: the Electric Chicken Music Vol. 1 compilation, on Worm Interface). Unlike Dream and Hope his selfreleased sophomore disc, whose breaks sound big, gritty and closer to the frontline the percussion here finds itself playing second fiddle more often than not. The biggest exception is the muchtouted \"Air Scratch Filter\", the lead cut on January's One More Story 12\". It's a jetengine backdraft that hurls a heated scratch battle headlong into the craziest 4/4 piledriver this side of an Ultimate Cheerleading competition. But by the time the sepiatoned intermission \"Am I Wrong\" rolls around, the beats have been beaten back, hidden under the floorboards, giving the melodies room to get busy and multiply, resulting in heartbreaking kaleidoscopes that propel tracks like \"Crime Of Mr. Com.a\", a stunning grid of splintered machine drums and tender analog harmonies (which only grow more abrasive and pained on the following number, \"Fickle Grief\"). But the mood isn't all rainy days and weeping robots; just look at that cover. How sad can a heavily armed robobaby in his sexual prime be? It's the sound of cybernetics that provides the inspiration for the title cut, a mobile assault field training exercise that inexplicably finds itself on the losing side of a skirmish with electrowielding interstellar arms dealers. Just try not to imagine a 9foot cyborg drinking 18 gallons of caffeine and endorphins when the blitzkrieg melody on \"Sick Of It\" goes off the deep end, that's all I'm saying. For this great change of pace, \"Make My Day\" takes the cake, doing the Space Raiders one better with a ditzy pop riff that must be the soundtrack of every horny android slumber party from here to the beaches of NeoTokyo. Com.a isn't the first act to use vintage videogames as stock for his sound banks, and he won't be the last. The gleeful drill n' bassmeetsurban thump framework that supports Shot of Love is a welltested infrastructure, with a safe expiration date. Perhaps aware of the need to break away from the pack, Com.a infuses the beats with a precocious personality, one that saturates even the densest layers of beat sequences with a youthful Nintendo charm, although the twisted, Gummoquoting closer, \"Hug Luv Suck\", resides in a completely different sector of the subconscious. IMost of the cuts sound fresh, plugging away like Dozers as they skitter through shirting tempos and moods: there's an emotional investment here that makes Shot of Love fly, a measured amount of representin' backed by a whole lot of love, assuring this album a place in discmen all over Saturn. "}