{"label":" In the Red","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16659/homepage_large.be54e9b5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Thee Oh Sees","title":"Castlemania","text":" Over the past decade, San Francisco's Thee Oh Sees have morphed from a showcase for skronksavant John Dwyer's sensitive side into the hardest working band in garagerock. Their output is prolific and their live show combustible. But on Castlemania, Dwyer opts to go it alone. With the exception of liveband regular Brigid Dawson who, along with the Sandwitches' Heidi Alexander, contributes some backing vocals the shaggybanged songwriter handles almost all of the instruments. Drummer Mike Shoun and Guitarist Petey Dammit aren't out of the picture permanently. They're just offduty until the fall, when Thee Oh Sees are scheduled to release yet another fulllength record. Castlemania is a fairly introspective affair, at least by Oh Sees standards. It's Dywer's most melodious batch of songs since 2006's mostly acoustic Cool Death of the Island Raiders. Without the heavy fullband artillery he leans toward skewed bubblegum pop, fleshing out the guitars and drums with flutes, bells and thrift store synths. It was recorded, at least in part, at Dywer's former group house. \"This here is the last record worked on at 608c Haight Street in San Francisco (very near and dear to my heart and heavy in my memories) before control was assumed by rich assholes,\" he writes in the liner notes. Not that this is Thee Oh Sees' answer to Nebraska. Even at his most reflective, Dwyer's songwriting retains a sinister, \"Sesame Street\"onLSD sensibility simple melodies and creepy lyrics, frequently delivered in a whackedout monstervoice. \"It don't feel too good to be dead in the 21st century/ I am dirt but I can be/ A home for wayward hungry seeds,\" Dwyer growls on \"I Need Seed\", deploying a Looney Tunesworthy narrative in a song about death. It's summery retro nuggets pinned into the red, shot through with a healthy dose of drugs and dread, while \"Pleasure Blimps\" finds him singing of machines stripping away flesh over shimmering glockenspiel lines and 12string guitars. All in all, Castlemania is a fairly loose and scattered record. There are plenty of oddball tangents, including a strippeddown and spooky cover of West Coast Pop Art Experimental Band's \"I Won't Hurt You\" and the forlorn mellotron and sax instrumental, \"The Horse Was Lost\". Songs frequently melt down into racket rather than stop on a dime. But it's good to hear Dwyer step away from his backing band's big guns, if only for a moment. "}