{"label":" Partisan","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16677/homepage_large.f034b1bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"BOBBY","title":"BOBBY","text":" The garish album art for BOBBY's selftitled debut features two identical boys in their tightywhiteys, one blank white and the other a photonegative shadow; on the back, the theme is repeated with a black cat and a white cat nuzzling into an implied yin and yang. This artfolk group, comprised of recent Bennington grads (including Mountain Man's Amelia Randall Meath), are fascinated by opposites and negatives, by the sharp disparities between ambient and rhythmic, airy and earthy, restive and tranquil, male and female. For their selftitled debut, the circle of friends holed up in a tiny Massachusetts hamlet to arrange these dozen songs (most written by de facto frontman Tom Greenberg), then recorded them in Woodstock, New York. Spacier and less Americanabased than those settings might suggest, the result is an intriguing marriage of familiar sounds in new settings, sounding variously like a noddingoff Joanna Newsom or tUnEyArDs with the caps toggle off. BOBBY's songs float loose and untethered, occasionally nudged along by percolating percussion. The contrast between drift and momentum are intriguing, especially on \"Sore Spores\", which pits an emphatic female vocal on the verses with a smoother, slyer male vocal on the chorus. The transition between them is intentionally jarring, suggesting a he said/she said account of a relationship. With its sleepyeyed bassline and whispers of guitar, \"Nap Champ\" lives up to its title, then rouses itself, upping the tempos and setting the guitars on high shimmer. Neither half would work without the other, but together they form a dynamic whole. Sprawling to seven members, BOBBY take advantage of their inclusive roster by indulging many ideas, from the slightly menacing basslines to the great yawns of synths to the wordless vocal flourishes that adorn several songs. Opener \"We Saw\" knots up a melody that crescendoes with each steady repetition of its central phrases, the harmonizing voices moving against instead of with the plateauing chord changes. Few songs on BOBBY are quite so assertive, although the arrangements are often busy and mercurial: \"It's Dead Outside\" changes shape almost constantly, yet maintains its murky drift across seven minutes. At times, the extremes are too extreme, with too much dead air abutting too many busy passages. Midalbum instrumental \"Loading Phase\" lulls BOBBY to sleep, while closer \"The Shed\" marries a churchly organ theme to a small chorale of voices, suggesting a cathedral in miniature or a shed, perhaps. The idea is more intriguing than the music itself, yet the idea is appreciated, as is the ambition to mix sounds together in subtly new ways. In that regard, BOBBY intently evoke that drowsy space between wakefulness and sleep. It's lively in its drowsiness, which may be the album's most compelling and distinguishing contrast. "}