{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16676/homepage_large.b4f6ef5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Ungdomskulen","title":"Gimme Ten","text":" Pitchfork's Stephen M. Deusner summarized CryBaby, the album Norway's Ungdomskulen released in 2007, by pointing out that it crammed in \"eight long songs with as many digressions, tangents, and asides as possible.\" Anyone deterred by such extravagance may find something more palatable to chew on in Gimme Ten. But this is indulgence of a different kind. Here the band has simply stripped everything down and produced an album of 10 songs that are each around one minute long. The entire record breezes past in less time than it takes the average krautrock jam to hit its stride. The band members are doubtless prepared for people to wave this album away as a gimmick without actually hearing it, but to do so wouldn't entirely be fair. There's definitely an air of novelty about it, but there's still as much care and attention put into these songs as there is in their other material. Those \"digressions, tangents, and asides\" are all still intact they've just been vacuumpacked into an impossibly tiny space. That level of detail maintained by Ungdomskulen recalls other artists who have worked in a vaguely similar manner, such as the earliest material by Glasgow's the Yummy Fur or Manchester postpunkers bIG fLAME. This album also borrows heavily from the same stylistic mien as the latter. Much of it contains elements of the syrupyfunk undertow that bands like Orange Juice and A Certain Ratio were dabbling in during the 1980s. There's a spikiness to the guitar sound and a playfulness to the lyrics that also recall that era. \"Elle\" contains most of those elements, with its jerky stopstart rhythms and liquid bassline combining to do some pitchperfect Gang of Four cloning. Some of these could be decent offkilter pop songs if they were allowed to spread their wings a little \"It's Official\" and \"Number One\" cover the kind of ground that Franz Ferdinand and Queens of the Stone Age were respectively delving into with some success in the past decade. But therein lies a big part of the problem with Gimme Ten. Too many of these sounds and directions have been thoroughly regurgitated and explored in recent years. Ungdomskulen are certainly well drilled at taking those ideas and condensing them down into bitesized chunks; it's just a shame they couldn't have chosen some less pickedover territory in which to perform this experiment. There are flashes of inspiration, but the nature of this record makes it a frustrating listen at times. \"Silver or Bronze\" matches synthesized handclaps with some wickedly lumpen rock riffing at one point, and \"Take It Back\" almost bears a chantalong chorus to go with its buzzsaw guitar. Ungdomskulen are more than capable of packing such short songs with plenty of belief, but too often it feels like they're straining under the weight of it all. With so little room to function, the rush to get to where they're going causes any genuine flashes of insight to be discarded with indecent haste. Despite such reservations, it's to their credit that Ungdomskulen have taken to this task with considerable zeal. There are 10 videos, one to go with each song, and the audio files are available for free download from the band's website. They even prove the worth of the oneminute format a couple of times. \"Walking the Dog\" works just fine as an impossibly brief pop track interrupted by quirky burping noises reminiscent of Elastica's \"Line Up\"; \"Your Soul\" filters in posthardcore yelling that's well suited to such claustrophobic expanses. As an exercise put out into the world for free, albeit with a decent amount of love and perspiration, Gimme Ten provides fleeting moments of enjoyment. But instead of really inhabiting its restraints and taking them somewhere revelatory, much of this album serves to highlight why it's not a very good idea to deliberately impose shackles on musical notions that are on the cusp of heading somewhere stimulating. If they're looking for a quickie followup project, it might be worth filtering these songs through the same kind of ambition they demonstrated on CryBaby, just to see whether all this abstraction can congeal into something more substantial. "}