{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16684/homepage_large.e2706af0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Fania Records 1964-1980: The Original Sound of Latin New York","text":" In 1962, Johnny Pacheco got divorced. One of the partners in the firm that represented him during the proceedings was Jerry Masucci. Pacheco was a bandleader; born in the Dominican Republic, he moved to New York with his parents when he was 11, studied percussion at Julliard, and started his own band in 1960. With this band, he was working on a fusion of all the Caribbean styles that could be heard in New York at that time, bringing together the related traditions of Puerto Rican, Dominican, and Cuban music to plant some of the seeds that became salsa. Pacheco and Masucci formed a much deeper connection than the average lawyerclient bond, and in 1964, they founded the Fania label, initially selling records out of the trunk of a car in Spanish Harlem. Pacheco and Masucci signed many of the brightest young lights on the New York Latin scene, and over the next 15 years, the label became essentially synonymous with the emerging salsa movement. Pacheco was the label's house producer and from 1968, led the Fania All Stars, a supergroup of some of the label's best musicians. But Masucci was more than just the business end of things. He attended sessions, bought lunch for the musicians, and with his brother Alex, encouraged the development of the music. Strut's new Fania compilation documents that development over two packed discs, with key tracks by Willie Colón, Rubén Blades, Héctor Lavoe, the Fania All Stars, Celia Cruz, Ray Barretto, Mongo Santamaria, Joe Bataan, and others. It's a good introduction to the Fania sound and stable of artists, steering refreshingly clear of songs where the funk beat has taken over. In fact, one of the central tensions of this music is the way the musicians work to incorporate some of the groove of funk without surrendering their own rhythmic heritage. Caribbean music (and much other Latin American music as well) is built on a very different concept of rhythm and harmony than most North American music. The African elements of North American music come to it less directly than the African elements of Caribbean music, which were preserved more strongly. Where rock, R&B, funk, soul, and even classical music tend to think in terms of a beat or pulse that is determined separately from the key the song is in, Caribbean music is constructed around a different rhythmic concept called the clave, which covers both the rhythmic drive and tonality of the music. So you'll hear plenty of cycling, hypnotic piano figures, locked in with simple bass lines, underpinning these songs, while an arsenal of percussion defines and accents the different parts of the rhythm. It gives even the slowest, mellowest songs an undeniable momentum, as one bar pours effortlessly into the next, with vocals and horns syncopated on top. Most of the songs are sung in Spanish, though there are exceptions. Fania artists tended to be bilingual, with Caribbean heritage and American upbringing, but frankly, Spanish is the language better suited to the music. A substantial jazz influence can be heard in some of the playing as well check Willie Colón's nicely phrases trombone solo on \"The Hustler\", or the way Ray Barretto's swirling \"Indestructible\" seamlessly builds the clave around a series of jazz chord progressions. Mongo Santamaria's \"O Mi Shango\", by contrast, displays a heavy Afrobeat influence and rides a drum kit that plays with a sort of protodisco accent on the upbeats. But that's the exception. For the most part, this set functions as an ace introduction to salsa music in all its brassy, undulating glory. "}