{"label":" Honest Jon's","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16682/homepage_large.36b417af.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"Vladislav Delay Quartet","title":"Debut","text":" For most artists 15 years and at least as many albums into a career, titling a new album Debut could be taken only as a wan joke but Vladislav Delay (born Sasu Ripatti) has released albums under enough genuinely distinct aliases that the appearance of any new entity might very well deserve the designation. And looking at the relatively traditionalist name of Ripatti's latest outfit or at their website, which features a photo of the group arranged in a clean and spacious woodpaneled studio on standup bass, acoustic drum kit, keys, and electronics, you might expect the Vladislav Delay Quartet to be a straightforward if modernist jazz band (Ripatti's roots are in jazz drumming). Debut, however, wastes no time in disabusing a listener of such notions. The album opens with \"Minus Degrees, Bare Feet, Tickles\", eight minutes of cold, blistering, windtunnel static punctuated only barely around the halfway point by the introduction of a loose hihat and a distantly bleating clarinet. Even taken as a liveband extension of Vladislav Delay's chilly dub, this is pretty extreme, and it's a damn far cry from Ripatti's most lauded project, the artfully subdued vocal house of Luomo. From there, though, the album opens up considerably, with \"Santa Teresa\", a nearly 12minute long song anchored by a repeating, resonating upright bass pluck around which percussion clatters, saxophone squalls, and grains of delay cluster and scatter like a timelapsed weather pattern. \"Des Abends\" continues in this vein and expands further. The same elements are at play percussion clatter, bass thrum, tinkling glass notes but here they echo through much larger, frostier acoustic spaces, and that photograph of the band all spread out in the studio starts to make a lot more physical sense. Having established a pace and tone (willfully glacial, on both counts), the rest of the album begins to disrupt those parameters. \"Hohtokivi\" begins with the single most electronic sound on the album, a low, buzzing bass pulse that grows increasingly staticky across the song's sevenandahalf minutes, letting off vents of steam and crackle and one final plume of feedback. \"Killing the Water Bed\" puts Lucio Capece's sax/clarinet playing upfront over Ripatti's busy cymbal rolls. \"Louhos\" introduces a dubbier vibe, propelled by a thick electronic kick drum beat. The relatively brief songs (at about four minutes apiece) \"Presentiment\" and \"Salt Flat\" provide the album's most ambient passages, the former creating a billowing fog of bass hum, the latter a brighter, optimistic coda, with what sounds like a church organ cresting over a ticking drum click and unreeling white noise. If this sounds like a difficult listen, even from someone as consistently expectationdefying as Ripatti, it's actually a surprisingly enveloping, and immediately rewarding album. The songs have an open, improvised feel, and the tracks themselves, for all their icy howls and inclement racket, sound roomy enough to build a house and settle down in them. It's those acoustic spaces, almost more than the live instrumental flourishes with which the band inhabits them, that set the Quartet's Debut apart from what was already the more challenging of Ripatti's main guises, pushing Vladislav Delay into even stranger, more viscerally rewarding territory. "}