{"label":" Hippos in Tanks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16688/homepage_large.048f919c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Laurel Halo","title":"Hour Logic EP","text":" Last spring, Brooklyn electronic artist Laurel Halo's King Felix gained significant notice among fans of murky electronic pop. The EP secured official release by the end of the year through Hippos in Tanks, and the increased attention Halo was drawing made sense. King Felix prominently featured Halo's expansive vocal range (also exercised on Ford & Lopatin's Gamesera cut \"Strawberry Skies\") doing curlycues and loopdeloops above beds of tickled, arpeggiated synths; the results recalled Dirty Projectors' disjointed acrobatics as much as the cosmic analog odysseys of Brooklyn pal Daniel Lopatin's Oneohtrix Point Never. As the electrifying cover art of the Hippos in Tanks rerelease suggested, the music possessed a strange, swarming quality, originating at a central point and covering everything in its path. King Felix sounded like a blueprint for something larger and more sweeping, a hint at greater potential not quite realized. But on Halo's latest EP, Hour Logic, she takes a sharp left turn, largely ditching anything that resembles conventional melody for dark, propulsive rhythms where her beats run wild. As heard here, Halo's version of dance music comes over as sterile and inert the beats are there, but they never coalesce into anything in particular. When they're not static (as they are on the constant drip of \"Aquifer\") they wind up lost in the clutter. She moves through some intriguing ideas the acid squiggles that surface near the end of the title track, \"Speed of Rain\"'s dewy beatbroken opening but there's a lack of momentum and the tedium disrupts Hour Logic's flow. For all its relative experimentation, the EP's most impressive moment takes place during \"Constant Index\", which finds Halo's distant cries submerged in synth washes and long stretches of delay. It's no coincidence that Halo is at her best when returning to and refining the ideas presented on King Felix. So Hour Logic ultimately seems like an intermittently interesting misstep, a bold experiment that doesn't quite come off. "}