{"label":" Holidays for Quince","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16696/homepage_large.9378b285.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Mount Moriah","title":"Mount Moriah","text":" In a 2006 interview with Pitchfork, the Mountain Goats' John Darnielle explained why he chose Bellafea as an opening act: \"I took out good bands I liked! It's really as simple as that. I really wanted people to see Bellafea especially. I think you don't see a stage presence like Heather McEntire's more than a few times in your life. She's unbelievable.\" Five years later, Bellafea's fate is unknown it's unclear whether they're on indefinite hiatus or broken up permanently but McEntire's charisma comes through strong and clear in her new act, Mount Moriah, which she formed with guitarist Jenks Miller of Horseback. While Bellafea derived its sound from spartan postpunk experimentalism, Mount Moriah explores more traditional folk, country, and gospel sounds. Those are, of course, the hallmarks of the bustling North Carolina scene one of the most interesting and active in the country right now but this new sound is a perfect setting for McEntire, whose voice suggests the expressiveness of Dolly Parton, the forcefulness of Carole King, and the textured restraint of Emmylou Harris. That voice is the ideal conduit for McEntire's lyrics or perhaps the lyrics are the ideal vehicle for her voice. She writes in a direct style that manages to incorporate interesting turns of phrase, knotty combinations of words, and evocative imagery. \"Social Wedding Rings\" deftly dissects circleoffriends politics, neither lambasting nor condoning those interrelationships but finding a finer balance between fond remembrance and bitter regret. Even singing about hanging out in Colorado Springs and listening to Buffy SainteMarie, she's makes the song specific to her own experience yet sympathetic enough to apply to any listener. On \"Lament\", McEntire slyly subverts lovesong conventions to write a declaration of love's opposite: \"A mouthful of bees couldn't stop me from whisperin', 'I don't love you,'\" she sings with a steeliness in her phrasing, right before the handclaps come in. Her repulsion is just as intense and wild as the attraction and excitement of first love. Dominated by shuffling drums, slow southern rock guitar licks, and pedal steel, the music on Mount Moriah is unobtrusive and reserved at times almost too much so but there are some fine flourishes in these songs, which feature members of Megafaun, St. Vincent, and Bowerbirds. The strings on \"Old Gowns\" quiver and sob, as if allowing McEntire to maintain her composure, and Miller's steady, chiming guitar theme on \"Lament\" gives her something to lean on. The music isn't as distinctive as the singer, but the band's mission is to support, not compete with, her performance. The accompaniment is understated by necessity, because what else can you do when the album's finest moment is McEntire singing wordlessly and eloquently on \"Old Gowns\", sustaining a single syllable to show the full, gorgeous grain of her voice? "}