{"label":" Acéphale","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16697/homepage_large.5b9c0439.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Pure X","title":"Pleasure","text":" After a few scattered 7\"s, Pure Ecstasy decided to up and change their name to Pure X for their debut fulllength. But Pure X are hardly suffering from a personality crisis a San Francisco cover band already had the former handle copyrighted, so the abbreviation occurred out of necessity. For those of us who heard something special in loose, wandering tracks like 2009 Bside \"You're in It Now\" or \"Voices\" a year later, nearly everything on Pleasure will feel like a welcome distillation of the elements that made those songs sound promising. In turn, the band's new moniker should seem completely fitting: No longer just a kickaround project from three Austin dudes, Pure X have become the refined and elemental version of their former selves. Fans of those early singles don't need to worry too much. Pure X remain very much attached to their singular style. Jesse Jenkins' bass still sounds peanutbutter sticky, while Nate Grace's guitars showcase pondripple textures and Mideasttinged tones one moment and hemorrhage syrupy feedback the next. Like grunge for beachcombers or shoegaze for people happy to be alive, Pleasure is all about texture and patience, stretched to ensure maximum zoneage. Anything MDMArelated about the moniker is a total misnomer this sounds like music made by people who mainline Benadryl. Sure, the album's blownout guitars, dusky shoreline vibes, and drugsick crawl can seem awfully familiar. But Pure X aren't just coasting on shaggy fumes. For one, this is a terrificsounding record, built for headphones and high volume. Recorded live with no overdubs, everything emulsifies beatifically while a disorienting quality still looms, like riding in a fourdoor on the freeway with only the back left window down. Pure X also set themselves apart by both honoring their influences and recombining them in interesting ways. Opener \"Heavy Air\" sounds like a chopped 'n' screwed Real Estate, while the new version of \"Voices\" suggests My Bloody Valentine channeling the Everly Brothers. After all, these songs owe a lot to the starryeyed romantic ballads of the late 1950s and early 60s. Instead of harnessing the rebel cool of that era, Pure X get lost in the simplicity and slowburn daydreaminess, stoking these characteristics with uniquely visceral reverb and a zonked tunefulness that impart a vaporous sensuality. But the most defining and pleasurable thing about Pleasure is the guitars impressive for a record that doesn't care about showoff guitar shit at all. Grace lets his pedals do most of the talking, gracefully sussing out emotional detail with subtle melody while still creating memorable moments, like the cheap firework burnout at the end of \"Half Here\". Pure X may not be breaking new ground, but as far as deadbeat summer vibes done right go, Pleasure is one killer drag. "}