{"label":" Rock Action","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16691/homepage_large.8582641b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Blanck Mass","title":"Blanck Mass","text":" The sheer maximal strength of Fuck Buttons' second album Tarot Sport was something to marvel at. It felt as if the duo of Benjamin John Power and Andrew Hung were shifting around vast tectonic plates of noise, daring one another to see how much detail their music could retain while pushing the volume firmly into the red. That love of scale remains firmly intact on Power's debut album under his Blanck Mass moniker, although he's purposefully tempered its overall feel with a more reflective bent. This is a themed work, based around \"cerebral hypoxia and the beautiful complexity of the natural world\" according to the Blanck Mass Bandcamp page. At times it crosses paths with the folksy elements of the Ghost Box aesthetic, where creepy electronics are twisted to produce the kind of deadened atmosphere found in old horror flicks like Witchfinder General. It sometimes shares that film's lack of refinement, with Power allowing his sounds to loop over vast expanses of time, matching Fuck Buttons' prowess for chiseling crude beauty from repetition. Much of this music is rooted in the ambient tradition; there are no beats, and Power often leans heavily on a wash of wavelike noise similar to what Brian Eno cultivated on \"Alternative 3\" from Music for Films. On first glance it can feel like there's little structure underpinning the glasslike inflections of \"Sifted Gold\" or \"Chernobyl\", but dig a little deeper and subtle shifts in tone and mood gradually unravel. It demonstrates how adept Power has become at adding and subtracting layers of gentle abstraction in his music. Blanck Mass also shows how well he can foster an atmosphere of unease without pushing everything skyward all the time. Occasionally it threatens to topple over into a Fuck Buttonsstyle morass of jagged edges, but on songs like \"Sundowner\" the prickly distortion dissolves into clear digital glitchiness. The track has a woozy atmosphere, causing it to feel like Power and his table of instruments are rocking back and forth on a creaky old ocean liner. Elsewhere the Blanck Mass sound sinks into introspection. \"Sub Serious\" is a densely layered piece full of twinkling loops and percussion elements that make it sound like it was recorded in the middle of a rain forest. The mood subtly slides from pessimism to dejection throughout; on \"Sub Serious\" it's the former, while the similar \"Land Disasters\" and \"Icke's Struggle\" use great swells of synth to generate an air of sadness. The latter two songs both use sampled birdsong, one of the few overt attempts to maintain the naturalworld theme. Occasionally Power steps close to his other band's territory, particularly on \"Land Disasters\", where he channels that wall of gnarly distortion again and sets it to the kind of icy interference that dominated \"Sundowner\". Those two tracks feel like distant cousins here, both feeding off the same kind of ultrafrosty banks of towering electronics that Power was clearly obsessed with creating during the making of this record. Blanck Mass reaches its apex in the form of the extraordinary 13andahalf minute \"What You Know\". The shifts in tone encompass many of this album's contrasting styles, including the glacial pileups of noise and the dips into impossibly quiet reflection. At its close there's even a hint of groove as a bass synth expands and contracts, ultimately blocking out the rest of Power's palette and opening up new lands for him to explore with this project. The air of serenity shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone familiar with Fuck Buttons' work in many ways Blanck Mass functions as a continuation of the bittersweet emotion pulled out of the closing Tarot Sport track \"Flight of the Feathered Serpent\". But this mostly feels like Power taking all his musical impulses and tunneling inward toward a more nuanced spot. The shadow of his other band always feels like it's on his shoulder, but that tension between his past and present guises is what makes this work so well. Blanck Mass is all about Power excavating new domains while still working within that great glut of voluminous space he's already mapped out. "}