{"label":" Thin Wrist","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16708/homepage_large.8ba30197.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Tearist","title":"Living: 2009-Present","text":" Tearist's first fulllength release, Living: 2009Present, strings together a hodgepodge of live takes drawn from the L.A. duo's first two years' of gigs, complete with stage banter and noisy tangents. Though bleak electronic music and live albums don't necessarily make good bedfellows, Tearist manage fairly well, mostly because singer Yasmine Kittles and beatmaker William StrangelandMenchaca know how to work a stage. Listen closely and you can hear them swapping out gear, evolving their setup, and refining their schtick. You can also hear the truth: These weren't bigtime shows. Tearist have recently grown buzzy enough to warrant their own L.A. Weekly profile, but there were a few lonely rooms along the way. Some songs are followed by heavy applause, but sometimes Tearist's final notes give way to mannered clapping. Other tracks ring with the hollow and boomy sound of empty rooms. \"There's only one person here, that's so weird,\" Kittles says at one point. Like their cityfolk Abe Vigoda, Tearist are devout students of 1980s goth and industrial sounds, but they've taken that moody, studiodriven music and retrofit it for basement shows and DIY spaces. On songs like \"Civilization\" and \"Closest\", StrangelandMenchaca pushes his electronic rhythms up to punk tempos, but keeps his basslines dry and squelchy. Tearist don't really do hooks, though. StrangelandMenchaca plays Martin Rev to Kittles' Alan Vega, blasting sparse and repetitive beats while the vocalist rants, writhes, and yowls animalistic grunts through a delay pedal. In other words, he lays down a steady foundation while she provides the dynamic. A live video of \"Civilization\" taped at KXLU provides a better picture of the band in performance. StrangelandMenchaca hangs coolly in the background as Kittles works herself into a heavy froth, going all Einstürzende Neubauten on a piece of scrap metal. In other words, Living really provides only half of Tearist's show: the stuff you can hear. And the stuff that you can hear on Living is fairly obscure. "}