{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16705/homepage_large.d757a2ef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Memory Tapes","title":"Player Piano","text":" Taking the long view, Seek Magic strikes me as a great album made by someone who really doesn't care much for the format. It's understandable since Dayve Hawk's prior gig Hail Social released a couple of LPs of timely, danceable indie rock while perpetually hemmed in between positive notice (SPIN Band of the Day, a deal with Polyvinyl) and a legitimate breakthrough. I can't imagine being too enthusiastic for the obligations of the traditional album cycle after all of that. Hawk's subsequent release of singles, remixes, and other oneoffs under a clutch of confusingly similar names (Memory Tapes, Weird Tapes, Memory Cassette) announced his newfound artistic direction as a cry of freedom, and he didn't show much interest in performing live either. But more eyes are on him than ever for Player Piano, and he's still got a thing for demurral. He's already claimed his third record to be almost done, allegedly a collection of Black Sabbathinfluenced dirges. You would think such diffuse focus would eventually catch up with him, yet Player Piano finds him more concentrated and economical than ever. Unfortunately, it comes off more like complacency than conviction, that Hawk's either holding back on us, misreading his true strengths, not recognizing the need to rise to the occasion, or possibly all three. While the individual songs on Seek Magic were excellent themselves, what made that record stand out was its comprehensiveness. Whether you enjoyed Hawk's laconic and fuzzy melodies, gelatinous electronic textures, or pulsating dance music, you weren't too far from any of those at a given time (and you could find them all on \"Bicycle\"). Player Piano lacks that crucial cumulative effect, and instead Hawk presents himself more as an able if indistinct singersongwriter than a molder of pure sound. And it isn't any sort of reactionary statement against chillwave: He stood out in my mind as the most forthright vocalist of his peers to begin with, his feminized coo relying more on elegant melodic curvature than foggy evocation. He gets a proper showcase with single \"Wait in the Dark\", on which Hawk is a true frontman rather than a texture over a streamlined arrangement. This shift makes Memory Tapes successfully come off like a sleek rock band than a homebound project. Though he's comfortable doing true pop music, as opposed to pop determined by immediate context, his more extroverted moments can be as cloying: \"Sunhits\" rousts Player Piano from a midrecord plateau, but the overly chipper guitar doodles and Hawk's dodgiest and most clearly enunciated hook (\"Nothing's a dream if you never wake up\" he's never been a lyrics guy) strain too hard to fulfill the prophecy of its title. And how \"Today Is Our Life\" hits me depends almost entirely on my current mood: There are times when I find it to be a genuinely buoyant tambourineshaking shimmy of breathless hooks; there are others where that cornpone guitar solo and sitarlaced coda are the stuff of shopping mall karaoke booths. It cuts to what's really troubling about Player Piano, how such a committed studio geek like Hawk delves into productionintensive 60s sunshine pop and ends up with such a weirdly distracting 2D sound that leaves it sounding unfinished, demolevel, even. Its mood lighting is similar to that of Seek Magic, but the underlying instrumentation is often flat and airless, sucked dry of his typically evocative detailing. Paradoxically, the tracks that are proudly samplefree and reliant on acoustic instrumentation are the ones that are the least dynamic and eerily evoke the disembodied artificial intelligence of keyboard presets. \"Yes I Know\" submerges its carnivalesque pinwheels and Hawk's vocals in a waterlogged muffle that you expect to lift at some point, but it goes relatively hifi still without coming up for air. The same goes for \"Offers\" and \"Worries\", nice enough experiments in bubblegum funk and digitally retouched Nuggets Farfisarock that lack any sort of immersion or fluidity. And the instrumentals no longer feel like they're on equal footing, not that they do much to make themselves noticed. \"Humming\" is a palate cleanser of skittering drum machines and languid atmosphere begging for a longer work to play a part in, and while the first half of \"Fell Thru Ice\" finds Hawk exploring newly unmoored song structure, Part II is simply a lesser replay of Seek Magic tricks. It gets chased with \"Trance Sisters\", which deserves some credit as a buzzerbeating freakout of maximalism, even if it's basically a compressed version of \"Bicycle\". All of which makes Player Piano a curiosity more than a flop. In fact, the sturdy hooks and thin arrangements make it ripe for remixes, and considering the similar wavelength he was on with Andorra, I wonder what Dan Snaith might be able to do with the raw materials here. But while I'd love to say Hawk's ear for melody or texture is what differentiates Player Piano from the dozens of agreeable but wholly unremarkable electropop records that get a pass, truth is, it's ultimately the comparison to Seek Magic that makes it such a letdown. "}