{"label":" Fantasy / Concord","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16710/homepage_large.a1466983.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rave On: A Tribute to Buddy Holly","text":" Buddy Holly was a singular musician who rose and fell in the era after rock'n'roll had become a distinct art form but before it had become art per se in the time, basically, between Elvis and the Beatles. His best songs are spare, nervy miniatures about puppy love riddled by anxiety an anxiety Holly made manifest in itchy percussive tracks and an inability to sing more than two lines without breaking into hiccups, the musical equivalent of sweaty palms. (This was in the late 1950s, when nonverbal ejaculations vocal or rhythmic were the closest a pop singer could get to talking about sex, a time when sex was broken down into gesture and metaphor). Holly's legacy in contemporary music is unclear a lot less clear than, well, Elvis or the Beatles. Rave On, a collection of covers released on the anniversary of what would've been his 75th birthday doesn't make it clearer. On a purely instinctual level, it's puffy and depressing, like one of those cable artsnetwork specials in which a series of talking heads in comfortablelooking chairs say hyperbolically admiring things about dead people everyone agrees the collective \"we\" should respect, but don't actually seem very interested in the dead person at hand. It's an exercise in celebrity that encourages the idea that famous people have mystical ways of relating to each other and the world around them. Until hearing Rave On, for example, I had not thought much about the relationship between Buddy Holly and Kid Rock. Now I have, and I understand it slightly less than I did before. I have no need in my life for very literal performances of songs like \"Everyday\" by people like Fiona Apple, for example, not because I dislike people like Fiona Apple but because 1) the original \"Everyday\" still sounds good to me; and 2) literal performances of songs like \"Everyday\" by people like Fiona Apple make me feel spiritually manipulated: If the same recording had been performed by a singer not named Fiona Apple, I don't think it would've been released. Most of Rave On is just tedious that way. Julian Casablancas sounds bored. Modest Mouse sound bored. Kid Rock sounds like he's trying to sing like Otis Redding but sounds like neither Otis Redding nor Kid Rock. Karen Elson, Jenny O., and Zooey Deschanel all sound nervous and coy and almost indistinguishable. My Morning Jacket's version of \"True Love Ways\" one of several songs Holly recorded with an orchestra after breaking up his band, the Crickets is the only straightlaced cover that transcends its surroundings, in part because I think the song's unimpeachable to begin with, in part because Jim James' high, whittling voice seems preternaturally wellsuited to the song's tone: blissful and sweet, but backlit by melancholy. The departures from the originals are generally more entertaining than the straight readings. Lou Reed, an underappreciated humorist, sings \"Peggy Sue\" with the aimless intensity of a very drunk person grinding through karaoke. \"It's So Easy\" a song Holly originally sang with a geewhiz kind of tone is turned into a noisy blues about how hard it is to control yourself when you're horny. Happily, comfortingly, it is sung by Paul McCartney, the only Beatle funny enough to write a song about his sheepdog. Patti Smith sings \"Words of Love\", maybe my single favorite Holly song and arguably the genesis of dreampop. Against all personally established odds, it's stunning, an example of how a jagged, vulnerable voice like Smith's can play against an arrangement so thin it keeps threatening to dissolve a basic and effective study in contrast. These covers are fun. They're spirited. They're slightly disrespectful, and in being slightly disrespectful, they feel like a true tribute and consideration of Holly's idiosyncratic spirit. Maybe the fundamental problem is that the compilation's \"Y'all come!\" inclusivity and eagerness to show just how many artists, young and old, love Buddy Holly, has a cold and windy void where its heart should be. In trying to please everyone well, you know how that one goes. The younger picks Modest Mouse, Julian Casablancas are safe. The older ones Graham Nash, John Doe aren't surprising or challenging, and aren't going to appeal to people who are there to hear the younger ones. It just feels like empty tribute, lip service for someone who really does deserve something more: the dignity of being left alone. "}