{"label":" Dischord","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16713/homepage_large.1d9fb6c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Lungfish","title":"The Unanimous Hour","text":" They say it takes only three chords to write a punk song. Lungfish did it with two. And they did it for 18 years. From 1987 to 2005, the Baltimore quartet could be considered the world's leading purveyor of punkrockasdevotionalart. They were a band hellbent and singleminded in their commitment to ascetic thrashing, with an amply bearded and tattooed frontman who came off like underground music's answer to John the Baptist. For all that, Lungfish's music sounds immediately familiar. It's just a handful of cyclical guitar riffs and pulsing, seashanty rhythms played in steady repetition. \"A person doesn't have to be Lungfishliterate to know how to hear our music,\" singer Daniel Higgs told the Baltimore City Paper in 1998, during one of the band's only extensive interviews. \"If you've never heard the song before, after several seconds you have heard the song, and it's gonna do that for a few more minutes.\" Like the best punk bands, Lungfish used common tools, but created singular music through sheer force of personality. Totaling 11 albums, Lungfish's catalog can be intimidating, but 1999's The Unanimous Hour is a good place to start. Recently remastered and repressed by Dischord, Lungfish's longoutofprint eighth record is among the band's sturdiest statements. On first listen, it sounds a lot like any other Lungfish record: Two or three chords repeat ad infinitum while Higgs belts out apocalyptic psychobabble. But this record has a special place in the Lungfish discography. It's a pivot point between the band's early years and the laserguided minimalist riffage that would predominate its final three records. Even before the Internet sped up underground music's turnover rate, Lungfish's evolutionary pace was unthinkably glacial. This is one band that never hired a string section, bought a drum machine, or contemplated a sudden creative left turn. Each record shed a few more superfluous notes, reducing the music to its barest, heaviest essence. Early on, Lungfish tempered their sound with some basic concessions to pop music verses and choruses, mainly (\"Friend to Friend in the Endtime\", from 1992's Talking Songs For Walking, was hooky enough that it eventually wormed its way into Joan Jett's setlist). But Lungfish spent the subsequent years streamlining their approach. By the time of The Unanimous Hour, the group had jettisoned conventional song structures in favor of unflagging hypnotic grooves. Opener \"Space Orgy\" barely budges from a single chugging chord that pingpongs back and forth between guitarist Asa Osborne and bassist Nathan Bell. \"Mated\" thunders along on an unceasing twonote bass line. \"Vulgar Theories\" pushes a single fuzzdrenched riff far enough to stare down the most fully zonked Spacemen 3 tune. The Unanimous Hour also finds Higgs shifting gears as a vocalist. He further ditches the pretense of linear narrative, embraces hymnlike forms, and makes his words as repetitive as Osborne's riffs. The record holds some of Higgs' most subdued moments (the prayerful chant on \"God's Will\") as well as his most farout (the hissed lyric about a mirrored, ringing urethrasprout on \"Metatron\"). Epic album closer \"Hallucinatorium\" splits the difference between these two extremes, with parallel lines of prose detailing a family portrait that could have been snatched from a Max Ernst sketchbook. \"Hallucinatorium\" was initially put to tape as a shortwinded instrumental, but upon hearing it, Higgs felt inclined to lay down a few verses. The problem: The original recording was too short to accommodate all the ribcages, hexagon faces, and living prayers the singer hoped to mention. Dischord cofounder and Fugazi frontman Ian MacKaye, who guided the recording sessions, suggested simply slowing the tape down in order to buy a few extra minutes an idea he cribbed from hearing the Prince Far I song \"Survival\" played backtoback with its pitcheddown instrumental \"version.\" So instead of picking up steam, the song tumbles into a dubby dreamworld. Against the screweddown sounds, Higgs' lyrics become deeper and heavier in their resonance. During the group's 90s heyday, Lungfish were unfairly lumped in with the emo and hardcore scenes, mostly because their music came out on Dischord. A decade removed from that context, Lungfish records seem more in line with weirdo luminaries like 13th Floor Elevators or contemporary mysticmetal heads like Om. Punk's basic impulse is fairly concrete, while Lungfish's inspiration is strictly otherworldly. The means of transmission, though, remains simple. On The Unanimous Hour, Lungfish use it to blast their message onward and outward into oblivion. "}