{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16714/homepage_large.70b223ab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Curren$y","title":"Weekend at Burnie's","text":" It's easy to characterize Curren$y as a weedrapper and nothing but Wiz Khalifa's stickymouthed country cousin, say, or a younger Devin the Dude with no singing voice and little sense of vulnerability. And it's true that Curren$y raps more about getting high than most people do, and that his fluid, heavylidded drawl does a better job evoking the experience. But Curren$y's become an interesting figure with a lot going on, and to focus on his cannabis appetite is to ignore some of the things that make him one of the more dependable working rappers. For one thing, he's become a workhorse. In the past year, he's put out four ridiculously solid solo releases and that's not counting his kindasucky Return to the Winner's Circle mixtape, his crew's Jet Life to the Next Life mixtape, or his scores of guest appearances on other people's tracks. Those four solid releases paint a picture of a musical adventurer, a guy who tests himself against a new style of production whenever he gets bored. On last year's two Pilot Talk albums, Curren$y made his way through producer Ski Beatz' lush shagcarpet psychedelic soul, a luxurious retro sound. Then, a couple of months ago, he released the free Alchemistproduced Covert Coup EP, which gave him a chance to navigate Alc's tense, broken boombap a dizzy, refracted take on classic New York rap. Compared to those other records, the sound on Weekend at Burnie's is remarkably warm and approachable, and it brings Curren$y closer to the sound of current radiorap than he's been in a while though, of course, he's still a long way from any serious rotation. For this one, he links up with producer Monsta Beatz, whose diffuse, melodic synths sound like a lowkey version of the smoothly emotive style that's helped turn Drake and Wiz Khalifa into stars. The music on Weekend at Burnie's drifts by in an exceedingly pleasant haze. Now, Weekend at Burnie's won't turn Curren$y into anyone's idea of a star. His idea of a chorus is still something like this: \"Get paid, get paid my nigga, get [long pause] paaaid.\" And his rap style doesn't employ the sort of attentiongrabbing punchlines that leap through club speakers to grab you. Instead, his delivery is more an unhurried runon that hits various ideas and images along the way without pounding any of them home. Though the music on his albums has changed, his slippery delivery really hasn't, and it's remarkable how completely at home he sounds on just about any form of beat that he attempts. So maybe the best thing about Weekend at Burnie's is the way these unassuming Monsta Beatz tracks give him room to operate. You can hear the man better on this album than you can on many of his recent efforts. And that gives us plenty of room to admire his slick little turns of phrase. A line like this one deserves to be heard: \"Haters tryna deplete my shine like venetian blinds/ But son do what the sun do: rise.\" In terms of subject matter, Burnie's doesn't exactly push Curren$y outside of his comfort zone. You never get the impression that much is at stake for Curren$y, even if this is his first commercial release since signing his new Warner Bros. deal. Protégés Trademark and Young Roddy both get plenty of mic time; beyond a single toobrief Fiend verse, they're the album's only guests. We never get to hear Curren$y expressing any sort of drive or urgency or emotion; he's always happy to rhyme \"ease\" with \"breeze.\" \"She Don't Want a Man\" is a fairly thin relationshipbased storyrap that succeeds mostly because of a smeary cinematic keyboard sound that reminds me of Mario Winans' \"I Don't Want to Know\". But Curren$y's a rapper so sharp and confident that he never needs to leave his comfort zone, and it's a lot of fun to hear him flexing his style on a sunnier sound palette. On \"JLC\", near the end of the album, Curren$y indulges in a bit of paranoiac drugdealer talk: \"Through text message, we plot the takeover/ Can't talk out loud 'round these chauffeurs/ Way on the outskirts of town, we have slick meetings/ Lookin' over our shoulders muhfuckin' lip readers.\" I have no idea if any of this comes from Curren$y's personal experience or if he's just spinning yarns, but it's a packedtight bit of writing, and he sounds unflappable as ever delivering it. In a moment like that, where you hear a guy deliver those dense lines so nonchalantly, you know you're in secure hands. Weekend at Burnie's, like so many other recent Curren$y releases, is full of those moments. This guy is still on a very serious roll, and it doesn't seem to be anywhere near over. "}