{"label":" Innovative Leisure","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16722/homepage_large.205ac80d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Mexicans With Guns","title":"Ceremony","text":" Ernest Gonzales, aka Mexicans With Guns, seems disinterested in things like nuance and pacing. Often seen outfitted in a luchador mask, Gonzales clearly has a flair for the theatrical, and his debut LP, Ceremony, strives for the cinematic. Rooted in drum'n'bass while touching on everything from 8bit to dubstep to house, Gonzales aims to assault your senses with all the subtlety of a frying pan smack. But for all its range, Ceremony suffers from being brazenly repetitive, relying on flash instead of substance and betraying a lack of restraint. Tracks are build around deep bass, throbbing swaths of electronics, and errant sound effects, all of which are usually contrasted by a mercurial element, like say, a brief, semimelodious synth line. The resulting tracks sadly feel too truncated for the dancefloor and too monotonous for headphones. Gonzales does have a solid feel for the role of percussion in his futuristic assemblages, such as the shakers and claps on the alien, evil \"Jaguar\" or the riotous cowbells on \"Fields\". And despite a lack of variance, Gonzales proves to be an interesting mimic at times, offering a slightly lessheady approximation of a Zomby track (\"Fields\"), and channeling a menacedripping Massive Attack (\"Restart\"). The latter gets a boost from vocalist Sasha Perera, who finds herself in the esteemed company rapper Freddie Gibbs and folkfuturist Helado Negro, proving, if nothing else, that at least the guy has taste. But Gonzales' mishandling of those guest spots and the record's frankly obnoxious second half makes for a burdening listen. Gibbs tries to craft some semblance of a song out of the wonky bluster of \"Highway to Hell\", but the track is a nonstarter. Everyone else is simply drowned out by the racket, making Gonzales' \"look at me\" aesthetic feel even more masturbatory. (For some reason, only rapper Nocando gets a pass for his appearance on \"Got Me Fucked Up\", a song so hilariously awful it demands to be mentioned here.) Despite the thoughtfulness bestowed upon the Helado Negroassisted closing track, it's of little consequence the record's end is reward enough. So, lesson learned: No matter how deep the bass is, it can't mask how shallow most of the ideas are. "}