{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16738/homepage_large.3e404272.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Zomby","title":"Dedication","text":" Zomby's early records weren't always aggressive, but they were never really demure, either. When his first Hyperdub singles began to attract notice in 2008, he was part of a wave of postdubstep producers who drew as much from synthdriven 1980s film scores, 8bit era video game soundtracks, and electro as they did from Jamaica, hiphop, or UK garage. True, his output wasn't as garish and noisy and abrasive as those made by some of his more intractable collaborators and remixers, and he used the EP format to experiment with tracks more ambientleaning than clubready. But they still had distorted riffs, the kind of lowend that makes you adjust your stereo settings to avoid frying your speakers, and hooks more Capcom than Kraftwerk. His first proper album, 2009's Where Were U in '92?, even ditched dubstep entirely to recreate the unruly spirit of the genre's ancestor, hardcore rave. The album sounded far more finetuned and far less cheap than most of the hardcore tunes it paid homage to. But it also suggested Zomby wanted nothing to do with the kind of listener who throws on an electronic album as unobtrusive background noise. If his notquitedubstep peer Lone brings the pacific and beatific side of early rave into modern UK beat culture, Zomby brings in the roughness, the menace, the boldness. Even when he goes for almostbeatless psychedelic beauty check \"Mercury's Rainbow\" the results have a disorienting intensity, like John Carpenter incidental music on fastforward and with the bass at +8. Although it's barely longer than some of his EPs, Dedication is being sold as Zomby's second album, and it's also the strangest, most lowkey, and least dancefriendly record he's released yet. It's hard to say to whom Dedication is aimed certainly not hardcore dubstep fanatics and that's part of its perverse charm, especially since everyone was likely expecting a cohesive, scenesummarizing statement given that this is Zomby's debut for bigtime indie label 4AD. It's too jittery and restless and rhythmic to work as comfy ambient music. But while it's very obviously designed to be listened to rather than politely ignored, its choppy transitions and abrupt shifts in mood means it doesn't always flow the way we expect of albums or even homelistening DJ sets. In a way it reminds me of the same hermetic and stuckbetweenworlds sound Boards of Canada were mining circa Geogaddi, alternating crunchy beat experiments with ethereal soundwashes and sometimes blurring the two modes together. Dedication never quite reaches (or aims for) the same scope or grandeur as BOC; it's a weirdly personal record, the kind made by a studio loner stringing together little oddities. So maybe call it Zomby's private reels made public, an audio sketchbook filled up with haunted miniatures, something to marvel over if never quite immerse yourself in. It's certainly the most stylistically wideranging record he's released yet. It's got some of what Zomby fans have come to love, those icy arcade game sound effects stamped into brief club tracks (\"Digital Rain\"), but just as often the album chases unexpected directions. For a guy not known for his love of atmospheric murk or soulful smoothness, the blurred vocals on \"Natalia's Song\" evoke the downcast vibe of Burial with just a hint of the Art of Noise circa the sensuous \"Moments in Love\". For a guy not known for working with singers, on \"Things Fall Apart\" Zomby drafts Noah \"Panda Bear\" Lennox as leftfield diva, reimagining the droning repetitions of Tomboy as techno for kids who grew up reading Nintendo Power. But throughout Dedication you're struck by how assured Zomby is with textures outside of \"game cartridge kitsch,\" how he refuses to be slotted into an alreadydated subgenre for marketing purposes. \"Haunted\" is like a computerassisted take on the pensive soundtrackjazz of DJ Shadow circa Endtroducing... with the vinyl crackle cleaned off. When the beats drop away entirely here, you're more likely to somber acoustic piano (\"Basquiat\") than glossy, unnatural keyboards. Barring a few exceptions, Dedication lacks the wobbly jumpup energy of Zomby's bestloved early singles and the ravey mania of Where Were U in '92. He's more inventive with rhythm than ever; they're just not the kind of rhythms you might have expected. With their fingersnap drums and bass ooze and queasy synths, \"Witch Hunt\" and \"Lucifer\" have the sluggish gravity of Southern hiphop and grime, outdoing acts like Salem in approximately onethird the time and with no sketchy rapping to dull their creepy pleasures. An entire album of tracks like that might have made for an easy hit, given Zomby's profile and the buzz around similarly druggy instrumental rap from producers like Clams Casino and the wonky triphop of the Brainfeeder crew, but Zomby won't make it that easy on himself. Though it doesn't sound like the work of a showoff, Dedication is in many ways the work of a producer pushing himself to see how hard and how far he can push his music into new places. Some might lament the fact that so many tracks feel like teasers pointing toward something longer and more developed, with most of these two or threeminute ideas fading out as soon as they get a good, eerie groove going. If so, you can take comfort that he's given himself so many possibilities for album number three. Just don't expect a producer this perverse to follow up on any of them, let alone all of them. "}