{"label":" Hessle","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16734/homepage_large.959b1142.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"116 & Rising","text":" Since 2007, Hessle Audio has played host to a smattering of singles from UK bass music's most exciting names, including James Blake, Untold, and Blawan. The label has also released work by its coowners: David Kennedy (Pearson Sound/ Ramadanman), Kevin McAuley (Pangaea), and Ben Thomson (Ben UFO). If fellow UK imprint Hotflush explores the breadth of bass sounds in electronic music, Hessle explores their depth, stitching the concept of sternumshaking lowend into the fibers of their style. This approach has led to a rupturing interpretation of dubstep and techno that often concedes beauty or charm but has not precluded curiosity or exploration. The label hosted what is arguably Blake's most progressive work (The Bells Sketch EP), and Kennedy has also been instrumental in electronic music's adoption of the footwork sound (an influence that pervades Addison Groove's \"Fuk tha 101\" and Pearson Sound's \"Stifle\" here). 116 & Rising, Hessle's first fulllength release, offers one disc of classic label cuts and one disc of new material. The label's tendency to sequester itself in 12\"s, as well as its notoriously stingy release schedule, makes the retrospective portion particularly valuable. Presented at dancefriendly tempos, these 12 tracks are split among only seven producers, forfeiting range for tense, agile deployment. The tracks are not about establishing a mood; they concern themselves first with bass and second with the ways rhythm can aid, embellish, circle, and attack that bass. Blawan, the label's most exciting young product, enacts this most clearly on \"Fram\", which is the sound of a Transformer continually unfolding: exponentially mechanistic, ugly but undeniably neat. The disc of new materials suffers both in comparison to the classic material and from a frantic energy never properly corralled. Still, there is plenty to digest: Untold takes his Duploblock chords and applies them to Chicago house on \"Cool Story Bro\". Addison Groove's \"Fuk tha 101\" proves the artist also known as Headhunter has plans for the footwork sound grander than the indelible \"Footcrab\". Pangaea continues an uninterrupted run of excellent singles with \"Runout\", a tart, acidic current of noise. (A \"Second Version\" of Blake's \"Give a Man a Rod\" feels sadly like an attempt to include a \"New James Blake track!\") 116 & Rising offers a clearer vision of where Hessle has been than where it's going. It's OK to care less about such visions and more about a collection of kickass tracks (of which 116 offers many), though Hessle's cautious nature suggests that coherence matters. That the new disc includes some producers D1, Peverelist, Randomer that the label considers kin indicates that the closeknit, communal aspect of Hessle isn't going away. At a bare minimum, 116 provides a third totem (after Hyperdub's 5 and Hotflush's Back and 4th) for anyone requiring a quick primer on the last halfdecade of progressive bass music. It is a techy, aggressive totem, but don't conflate that aggression and lack of expanse with a dearth of creativity. "}