{"label":" Escho","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16739/homepage_large.dd41bc58.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Eric Copeland","title":"Waco Taco Combo","text":" Eric Copeland's music sometimes gets lumped in with chillwave or hypnagogic pop, presumably because of how he chews up old sounds and spits them out in new shapes. It's like building sculptures out of thriftstore finds and junkyard debris, so naturally some of his collages can sound nostalgic. But associating Copeland with anyone besides himself or his group Black Dice feels wrong. He really inhabits his own universe, one he started before current cutups took to scouring VHS tapes and video games for source material. And his fractured rhythms, which can approach bouncy hiphop loops, are as close to the Bomb Squad or J Dilla as Washed Out or Ducktails. In fact, where those latter artists often deal in blurry memories of decades past, Copeland's music reminds me more of a specific 1980s moment the scene in Ferris Bueller's Day Off where Matthew Broderick's character plays \"Blue Danube\" on a keyboard programmed with coughs and wheezes. Back then, the thrill of using synths and samplers came in making any sound into a note, and making any string of noises into a song. Copeland still seems fascinated by that simple idea and the unlimited potential it implies. On Waco Taco Combo, his latest LP, that fascination results in some of his catchiest songs to date. What makes them so catchy is also what makes them simple hard, straightahead beats. Which is not to say that any song here is straightforward. They all creak and groan with lopsided motion. Drops of noisy oil leak out and loose screws rattle as Copeland's musical jalopy sidles down the street. But each track eventually digs into a bumping groove, which becomes glue that holds all the rickety parts together, or a magnet around which Copeland's furry filaments align into bodymoving tuneage. It's a pretty singular pleasure to nod your head to such cartoonish music it's as if Copeland stole Wile E. Coyote's ACME bomb kit, and turned the explosions into beats. On side two of Waco Taco Combo, all the string and tape that Copeland uses to hold his sounds together finally snaps, and a bunch of sonic detritus comes spilling out. In one sidelong track, \"Spangled\", Copeland's beats become more random and less fluid, his scenes fused via random jump cuts rather than smooth dissolves. Some might see \"Spangled\" as a doggie bag, filled with leftovers whose connections are hard to see. How appetizing you'll find this stew depends on your tolerance for collage as an end in itself. To me, it's a nice contrast to the album's smoother songs. But even if you can't stomach all 17 minutes, there's more than enough nuggets on Waco Taco Combo to sink your teeth into. "}