{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16741/homepage_large.d3e341e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Father's Children","title":"Who's Gonna Save the World","text":" At the end of the 1960s, three high school friends from Washington, D.C.'s Adams Morgan neighborhood formed a doowop group together. They sang in all the usual places the park, street corners, walking home from school. After adding a fourth member, they got good enough to start playing parties and talent shows. Even as they got gigs, they still didn't have a name until one was given to them when they backed a local soul singer. They became the Dreams. In the late 60s and early 70s, a lot of predominantly black neighborhoods had community centers working hard to get kids off the streets, and Adams Morgan had the People's Center, founded in 1972 by Norman Hylton. The group found itself frequenting the Center, and it was here that it was suggested that they add instrumentalists and become a selfcontained band in the Earth, Wind & Fire vein. The singers recruited a band and took up instruments themselves, quickly developing into a tight, flexible unit with a strong original repertoire, much of it written by keyboardist/vocalist Nick Smith. It was a chance event that put the final piece in place, though: the band emerged unharmed from a rollover van accident while touring Virginia. They changed their name to the more hip and current Father's Children, and most of them converted to a form of Islam. Late in the year, the band entered the studio to make its first album. A few personnel changes, tours to Texas and Bermuda, and some sessions that lasted into 1973 later, they had it. But it never was released. The band couldn't get a record deal as its management company folded, and producer Robert Hosea Williams, who didn't get paid for his work, put the tapes in his garage, where they remained until now. Numero Group has dusted them off and finally put together Who's Gonna Save the World, the lost debut of Father's Children. The album reflects the fivemonth period over which it was recorded quite well, presenting the band as skilled in funky social commentary, stringsoaked love songs, Santanaesque jams, psychedelic posthippie mysticism, sweet harmony soul and artsy fusion. Some of these songs are truly great. \"Dirt and Grime\", a harmonysoaked rumination on the rundown state of the group's neighborhood, erupts with nasty fuzztoned guitar that seems encrusted with all the filth implied in the title. On \"Kohoutek\", named for a bright comet that appeared in the night sky in early 1973, the flexibility of the band's spiritual, religious, and mystical beliefs is readily apparent as the horn arrangement and whispers of the title give way to spoken lyrics about the body being a prison for the soul. \"In Shallah\", a gorgeously swaying harmony number, is titled as though it has openly Muslim themes (that's Arabic for \"God Willing\"), but it really doesn't it's more of a sweet soul tune with spiritual overtones. There are bits that haven't dated well the muddled spoken conclusion of \"Everybody's Got a Problem\" is one, with members speaking such profundities as \"war's a drag, man\" but overall it's a cool album that probably could have done well had it been promptly released. It captures the zeitgeist of its age as well as anything by Earth, Wind & Fire, with not much less commercial appeal. Father's Children endured through the end of the 70s, ultimately releasing a selftitled LP recorded in Hollywood for Mercury Records in 1979, and another after briefly reuniting in 2005. Neither of those went anywhere, and while this release can't quite correct history, it does finally bring to light a good wouldbe debut by a worthy band that just never caught its break. "}