{"label":" Tompkins Square","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16746/homepage_large.2a0a49d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"To What Strange Place: The Music of the Ottoman-American Diaspora, 1916-1929","text":" In the summer of 1952, the filmmaker, collector, and noted weirdo Harry Smith then just 29 squirreled himself away in a tworoom office at 111 West 47th Street, chewing peyote buttons and digging through his massive collection of hardsought 78rpm records, selecting the songs that would later comprise Folkways' Anthology of American Folk Music. Over the past halfcentury, the Anthology has become a neatly packaged standin for the whole of American folk music, despite its dubious legality (rights were finally cleared for the 1997 reissue) and hugely personal conception. The blues, country, and folk songs (most recorded in the 1920s and 30s) Smith chose to include range from the obscure (Uncle Eck Dunford) to the popular (the Carter Family), and are presented with an eye toward the metaphysical the socalled Celestial Monochord etched onto its cover is being tuned, after all, by the Hand of God. The Anthology is a stunning thing, disorienting and funny and sad and transcendent, but it's also limited by design; the collection's supposed snapshot of the American folk canon is as much a selfportrait as anything else. Now, over a halfcentury later, To What Strange Place a 3xCD box set compiled by another 78 collector, Ian Nagoski feels like a longlost companion piece. Rather than defining folk music as a rural, indigent practice, Nagoski goes broader, offering up the Ottoman immigrant songs that animated American cities in the first half of the 20th century for inclusion in the same canon. To What Strange Place collects the work of musicians from Anatolia, the Eastern Mediterranean, and the Levant who lived in the U.S. and recorded in New York City between World War I and the Depression (19161929), as culled from Nagoski's own collection (according to a recent Washington Post profile, he purchased most of the source records en masse, for $5, from some dudes paid to haul junk out of vacated row houses). None are sung exclusively in English, and nearly all nod to musical traditions likely unfamiliar to casual listeners. It's not particularly easy to absorb, at least at first the textures and instrumentation are foreign, the tempos are shifty, the voices often spastic. Ultimately, though, none of that matters: The immigrant experience, so rich with glee and terror and homesickness and hope, is expressed here in all its wild, universal glory, and if you listen hard enough, these songs start to sound as familiar and as American as \"This Land Is Your Land\". The jewel of the set is Marika Papagika, a Greek immigrant and famed practitioner of Rebetiko (a Greek analogue of Ottoman café music) who apparently recorded over 225 records in the 1920s and eventually helmed her own club, Marika's, in New York. Nagoski included some of her work on his 2007 set Black Mirror: Reflections in Global Musics 19181955, but she gets more space here, and she deserves it: Papagika's voice is bold and otherworldly, a high, skewering whine that defies rote comparison. It feels desperate and preverbal, like a baby crying in the middle of the night, and with it Papagika communicates (unselfconsciously, and with unchecked fervor) a staggering range of emotion. \"Smyrneiko Minore\" is her best, strangest track; there's not much melody, just Papagika howling over piano and a bit of bowed strings (probably a violin), but the anguish in her voice is unforgettable. Elsewhere, it's the rawness of the performances that lingers. Tetos Demetriades' rendition of \"Miserlou\" which Dick Dale transformed into an instrumental surfrock staple in 1962 is dark and ominous; Kanuni Garbis's \"Ouchak Canto Guzel Tourna\" is frantic and foreboding. There are expressions of joy here, too D. Perperian's \"Tamzara\" (a folk dance) is giddy and bright, an invitation to move. With its many moods, To What Strange Place offers a small, telling glimpse of the immigrant existence, using only the songs they recorded here. It feels as essential to an understanding of American music as anything else. "}