{"label":" Green Label Sound","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16751/homepage_large.23c089f9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"The Cool Kids","title":"When Fish Ride Bicycles","text":" Back when the Cool Kids first made the rounds a few years ago, it was still pretty weird revolutionary, even for a new group to build a buzz and an audience without relying on a physical product. The Chicago retrorap duo seemed like they sprang fully formed from the Internet. They lived their lives one blogbait mp3 at a time, releasing another dose of icycool 808 thud whenever the time felt right. For this group, the idea of an actual fulllength album was almost beside the point. If they could tour and play lucrative corporatesponsored shows without the benefit of an album, then why bother? It wasn't like the Cool Kids were bursting with artistic ambition; they rapped about their sneakers and cars and haircuts, not exactly the sort of thing that extends well over an hour or so. And though they've been promising the imminent arrival of honesttogod debut album When Fish Ride Bicycles for a few years now, the release remained stuck between record labels, and it felt perfectly reasonable to assume that it would never show up. The album has now shown up, but it's not some sweeping cohesive statement. Fish has a few big names attached, but it's not an onslaught of guests. If you've been paying attention to these guys over the past few years, almost everything here will sound familiar. The production, mostly from Cool Kid Chuck Inglish, is straightforwardly spacey, a crisp and bright take on minimal mid1980s drummachine boom. Inglish and Mikey Rocks have voices so flat that they usually sound bored, and they're less interested in punchlines than they are in matteroffact situational boasts, many of which have a weird patina of nostalgia to them. When Fish Ride Bicycles is out on Mountain Dew's Green Label Sound imprint, but it's not like the Cool Kids are rapping about sipping on Code Red or anything. Instead, the album illustrates the absurd things a rap group has to do to release an actual widecirculation retail album in 2011. They've made the leap to corporate patronage with their personalities totally unchanged; the move hasn't audibly affected their personality as a group. (It does have to be said, however, that the gigantic Mountain Dew logo on their cover art is a pretty bad look.) The real move that the group makes on When Fish Ride Bicycles is a slight step away from minimal 80s rap toward squelchy 1980s funk. Most of the tracks here come with gooey Zappsounding keyboards, a slick melodic sound that gives their tracks an extra dimension. It's a sound that works for them in small doses, but when they go back to it a bit too often, the trick robs their simple, affectless sound of some of its power. Melody and warmth aren't Chuck Inglish's strong suits; he sounds best when he's stripped his tracks back to their barest elements, as he did on The Bake Sale EP. But these flourishes are nowhere near enough to drown the album. The Cool Kids' greatest asset is that their music is fun; it sounds good at parties, or on summerafternoon drives, or at corporatesponsored live shows. That doesn't change with When Fish Ride Bicycles. These guys still know who they are, and their lines still show some serious linguistic style without going out of their way to impress: \"She wanted me to beg, but I beg your pardon/ I'm Park Place, you're Marvin Gardens\". For a couple of tracks, they link up with the Neptunes, the producers whose dizzy Triton experiments probably showed them what a resourceful mind can do with a drum machine. Ghostface Killah and Bun B roll through, sounding grizzled and authoritative, their mere presence implying a sort of legitimacy. Asher Roth pops up on the unnecessary posse cut \"Roll Call\", but he gets out of the way without doing any serious damage. The whole thing makes for a solid, lowimpact listen. It's not going to change your life or even, most likely, your day. But it might make 39 minutes pass by more quickly, and that's all it seems to want to do. The Cool Kids have now proven that they can make an album, but they haven't proven that they ever needed to make an album. "}