{"label":" Planet Mu","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16743/homepage_large.e034e9ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Machinedrum","title":"Room(s)","text":" Rarely does a moment pass on Machinedrum's Room(s) during which a human voice isn't present. This wouldn't be noteworthy save for the fact that Room(s) is an electronic album, one (presumably) devoid of its creators voice. Instead, it is stuffed to the gills with harping, distended vocal samples deployed in hypnotic, overlapping curlicues. This style of sample, popularized by UK bass music, at this point has become prevalent enough that it represents modernity the sound of contemporary electronic music more than any one genre. Still, Machinedrum's Travis Stewart approaches this trend like a glutton. Where peers like Four Tet and Jacques Greene apply these samples in precise, painterly strokes, Stewart gloms them onto the canvas with abandon. In doing so, he seems to suggest that their accumulation, more than their placement or timbre, provides the necessary weight and mysticism. Stewart enjoys these kind of tactful reactions. He's spent 10 years releasing music under the Machinedrum moniker, much of it worthwhile, much of it in widely varying styles of electronic composition, from IDM to deep house and back. Bass music is Stewart's current muse: Earlier this year he released the excellent Fleur 12\" as half of Sepalcure (whose other half, Praveen Sharma, released one of the better bass singles of the year, \"The Year 3000\", as Braille). On Room(s) he takes bass music's vocal samples and strips them of their candor, the sense that they are disassociated from the techy fray. They become globs of sound, the primary element around which these tracks are constructed. A collection of active, grazing drum patterns and warm keyboards holds these gobs together. Stewart manages a fair range of styles from the pounding, pianohouse of \"Come1\" to the opiate shadows of \"Youniverse\" though nothing escapes those contorted yelps. Those samples ululating, detuned, hypnotic normalize everything on Room(s), to the point where vastly different tracks are tonally similar. Sometimes, such as on \"GBYE\", he succeeds using short, eager samples, colliding two or three voices together dozens of times in quick succession. The tracks that stray furthest from dance music fare the best: \"Sacred Frequency\" (itself a single, with excellent Bsides, for the record) veers into the gleaming psychedelia of Caribou, while \"Now U Know the Deal 4 Real\" touches on cold, assertive R&B. I want to stress how many listens it takes to suss out even these differences. It's not that they're not real, it's that the shivering vocal timbres dominate the mix to the point where large shifts in tempo and style are obscured. It's during these moments when I think that Room(s) and its elevation of the vocal sample was perhaps a better idea than an album. Still, if you're the type of person who feel hard for Greene's \"Another Girl\" or Burial's shaky ghosts, there's enough hypermelodic, mushmouthed whir on Room(s) to reward your time.  "}