{"label":" Weird Forest / Saffron","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16742/homepage_large.7459211d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Noveller","title":"Glacial Glow","text":" Sarah Lipstate, the Brooklynbased guitarist who calls her solo project Noveller, has been busy the past two years. She's made four albums and two split releases in that time all interesting forays into noise, drone, and ambience. But Glacial Glow is a leap forward. Confident and consistent, it bears a musical personality that had been somewhat hidden. Previous Noveller records could drift into vagueness, but here Lipstate gives each track a distinct theme, telling a series of wordless stories. Her sounds are more like syllables and sentences than abstract textures. That makes Glacial Glow her most melodic album, but that's not why it's her best. The increased accessibility is simply a byproduct of finding a stronger, bolder voice. It's also a byproduct of her focusing more on her guitar than the effects pedals she attaches to it. Notes and chords take center stage, where once they could get blurred in echo. There's still lots of atmosphere here, but the causes of that effect the basic act of plucking a string or strumming a chord assume prominence. According to Lipstate, these songs began with her playing guitar unamplified in bed, and the simplicity and intimacy of that approach comes through in the end results. The distance between initial idea and what we hear feels short. Each track has a patient, searching quality, as if she's discovering sounds with us, never rushing through them or piling them up. In that sense, Lipstate reminds me of that singular model of patience, Loren Connors. Her sound is certainly busier than his, but you can hear Connors' painterly fortitude on \"Alone Star\", a kind of frozen Western theme in which bassy plucks tremble in the moonlight and highend curls sparkle in the distance. Other artists echo here as well I hear a little Sonic Youth in the loops of \"Waxwing\", a little Papa M in the pastoral strings of \"Tuesday Before Poland\", a little of Explosions in the Sky's cinematic drama in the lilting \"Glacial Wave\". But often when an artist gets stronger, the music becomes more universal, and reference points become easier to hear. It may sound paradoxical, but these evocations help make Glacial Glow distinct. What most distinguishes the album is Lipstate's boldness. Every song steps forward even as it envelops, and most have short titles that eschew irony or indecision. Take the closer, which is bluntly titled \"Ends\" because that's what it does, with gentle tones slowly disappearing into the horizon. If you're familiar with Lipstate, you might notice I've gotten this far without mentioning her many other projects and collaborations, which come up in most reviews and articles about her. Those are interesting too, but they're irrelevant to Glacial Glow, a work in which she's fully earned the right to be considered completely on her own. "}