{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16748/homepage_large.d5ddb363.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Invasion of the Mysteron Killer Sounds","text":" Kevin \"The Bug\" Martin has been a strong advocate for Jamaican music over the past 20 years in his work as both artist and curator. But it's his adventurousness that makes him so valuable. Beginning with the Macro Dub Infection compilations he put together for Virgin in the 1990s, Martin has been just as interested in the way Jamaican pop has been reinterpreted, mutated, and even perverted by outside influence as he is with tracking its history at home. Martin assembled this year's Invasion of the Mysteron Killer Sounds with Stuart Baker, the head of Soul Jazz, a UK label that is itself a longtime champion of Jamaican sound system culture. The two discs work as a whistlestop tour of postdigital Jamaican music, but they also highlight the ways dancehall has spread around the globe, twisting itself into almost unrecognizable shapes along the way. Built largely around instrumentals, Mysteron jumps from Jamaican dons cranking out essentialist beats to U.S. producers like Diplo making tracks for a wired worldwide audience. While the minimalism of some tracks might test the patience of those who aren't already beat freaks, Martin and Baker's selection is a perfect way to learn about the outlandish, shouldn'tbethisfunky things Jamaican producers (and their farflung acolytes) have been doing to rhythm for almost three decades now. With its delirious beat clonking from one headphone to another, Andre \"Suku\" Gray's \"Sign Rhythm\" sounds both tribal and cybernetic, and you can marvel at the way Gray has made these superheavy drums dance around the mix. The \"Sign Rhythm\" also has a hook that sounds like a tea kettle's whistle or a broken kazoo, which is a pretty good indicator of how farout Jamaican producers will go in search of texture. Firehouse Crew's \"No False Hair\" has a sprinkle of familiar Caribbean steel drums, but good luck hearing them fighting their way out of the riot of gabbagrade drums, gameover effects, and (because it wasn't deranged enough) a slide whistle. One of those cuts is from the 00s, the other from the 90s, both unique and at the same time utterly dancehall. Mysteron is no history lesson, but it should give newtoragga listeners a sense of dancehall's evolution, even if they have to puzzle it out through repeat listens. The 80s cuts collected here, from when reggae and dub giants like King Tubby (\"Fat Thing\") and Prince Jazzbo (\"Great Stone\") went digital after the genrechanging success of Wayne Smith's \"Under Mi Sleng Teng\", still have plenty of reggae's skank; they squeeze as much of the old liveband swing as possible from drum machines and synthetic bass. By the 90s, beats like Fat Eyes' \"Steel Plate\" and Steely & Clevie's \"Streetsweeper\" had become strange and strident, full of ominous negative space. By the 21st century, Jamaican producers were searching even further afield for fresh sounds, whether the agitated doubledutch clapping of Lenky's \"Diwali\" or island acid house of South Rakkas Crew's \"Red Alert\". Mysteron tends toward the tense and fierce, but there's room for chill beauty, too. Kickin Productions' placid but driving \"What You Gonna Do\", for instance, is a merger of oldschool reggae and newschool rhythm programming that looks both backward and forward while being totally captivating. Which is a pretty good way to describe Mysteron as a whole. "}