{"label":" Atlantic Jaxx","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16756/homepage_large.9c07051a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Ratcliffe","title":"Dorus Rijkers EP","text":" Basement Jaxx's Simon Ratcliffe and Felix Burton have long used Atlantic Jaxx to release material that's too clubfocused, instrumental, or experimental to fit onto their radioleaning albums. As official Basement Jaxx releases have grown slicker in their attempts at perfect pop pastiche, the side projects and outtakes issued on the duo's label have come to seem even wilder. With no guest singers and zero hooks, Ratcliffe's new solo EP is another chance for these onetime house barbarians to remind people why their unconventional spirit once made dance classicists turn up their noses. Dorus Rijkers unleashes livesounding rhythms that twist, turn, and feel like they don't want to do what their producer tells them to do. Opener \"Tightrope\" sounds like Ratcliffe tried to lay down a fat, funky, straightforward breakbeat, but then his cheekiness got the better of him, with the boombap quickly mutating into a loony jazzmetal hybrid. On much of the EP, the squealing synths and ultrabright electro riffs aren't too far off from the kind of arcadegame mania and tortured gfunk beloved by Zomby, Rustie, and their peers. In fact, the frenetic, densely layered \"Mindset\" makes the postdubstep crew sound almost staid, while its fried fuzzbass and general noisy mayhem shame the Ed Banger crew and similarly brutal French house producers. The second half of the EP is calmer, but just as surprising. \"Flying by the Sun\" essentially applies the methodology of disco edits to an old electric jazz record, compressing a halfhour of freeflowing improvisation into a deranged fourandahalfminute jukebox single. But even in shortened form, this kind of knotty jazzfunk isn't for everyone. Neither is Dorus Rijkers as a whole, even at just four tracks, which is probably the perfect length to avoid burning out on music this dense and convoluted. If you think that Basement Jaxx have been too buttoned up lately, then you'll probably appreciate the way Dorus Rijkers sounds like a man unleashing a lot of fuckyou intensity. Throw it on looking for the glossy rollerboogie bounce or Europop sheen of Crazy Itch Radio or Scars, though, and the drums alone will slap the expectations right out of you. "}