{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16760/homepage_large.4a0b9dd1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Olivia Wyatt","title":"Staring Into the Sun","text":" In 2009, filmmaker/photographer Olivia Wyatt traveled to Ethiopia to document a music and dance event called the Festival of 1000 Stars. Things didn't quite go according to plan. On her arrival in the country, Wyatt discovered the Ethiopian government had canceled the event. So Wyatt instead headed out to visit 13 tribes, whose performances Staring Into the Sun documents in a DVD, a CD, notes, and photographs. It's an extraordinarily careful, comprehensive package, featuring stories about close calls with authorities, comments on the distinctive qualities of each tribe, and details about the various instruments used in the recordings. The hourlong DVD is the best way most of us will have to witness the music of the people Wyatt visited. With visuals as hypnotic as the performances, she deftly illustrates how music seeps into many different parts of life. The opening scene is one of the most spectacular, showing members of the Borana tribe in southern Ethiopia chanting a cyclical polyphonic song as they pass up buckets of water from a multilevel well; Wyatt's shots skillfully match the repetitive nature of this backbreaking work. Scenes of spiritual possession and ceremonial whipping further demonstrate music's role in ritual practices. The sheer breadth of styles in the film also extends to more commercial fare often featuring keyboards and synthesized drums shot directly from TV sets. One clip even features a band decked out in military garb and posing with guns. That stands in stark contrast to the the scenes of the Tsemay tribe, where kids and adults bounce around in a circle to an uplifting song. The big highlight here is the discordant synchronized panpipe playing of the Dirashe tribe in the Great Rift Valley; the music feels like it could career out of control at any moment, but it never does. The accompanying CD is less essential than the film, though it just about works as a standalone item. Listing no artists or tracks, the disc is simply a collection of recordings Wyatt made. Some of them feature the trilling female vocals that are a staple of the region; others are built around an openended structure of loosely handclapped rhythms. The masterfully offkilter panpipe players of the Dirashe tribe resurface in a nearly eightminute excerpt of a piece that presumably stretched on far longer. The disc's common thread comes through its ceaselessly looping vocal chants, which are mesmerizingly easy to get lost in just as the performers themselves may have done to reach such a tranceinducing state. Staring Into the Sun shows how that kind of loosening is simply one of many purposes music can have for a group of people. "}