{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16761/homepage_large.4dfca7c5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Serengeti","title":"Family and Friends","text":" As L.A.based Anticon has expanded its horizons, it has slowly moved away from the navelgazing, leftfield hiphop that made its name. Chicago rapper David Cohn, who performs as Serengeti, represents something of a return for the label. Following a 2009 collaborative record with producer and fellow Illinois native Polyphonic, Serengeti's first solo album for Anticon is an unflinching homage to an indierap template that has otherwise largely gone the way of the dodo. Producing Family and Friends are enigmatic WHY? frontman Yoni Wolf and exCasiotone for the Painfully Alone mastermind Owen Ashworth (now working as Advance Base), who provide a sparse but sometimes gripping backdrop for Cohn's stable of strange characters all down, a few out and their struggles. As an MC, Cohn is part broken rambler, part highly attuned peoplewatcher. He sounds like he could use a drink, but his easy, nearspokenword delivery is nothing if not welcoming. If you're up for hearing about absentee junkie fathers or suburban malaise, Cohn has a barstool ready for you. For such a conversational rapper, though, Cohn often makes it difficult to know exactly where you've landed in the conversation. Tracks like the freeassociative \"A.R.P.\", which finds the narrator taking DMT and later stubbing his toe, or the cryptic \"HaHa\", about falling in love with the girl at the hardware store, would benefit from a bit more coherence. And even when lucid, Cohn frequently has trouble living up to the cleverness of his own concepts. For every moment as arresting as UFCfighter lament \"The Whip\", which pairs Cohn's workmanlike flow with spiritcrushing toy keyboard plinks, there are too many where the pieces fit awkwardly. The desperate \"PMDD\" pines hazily for a girl in a pharmaceutical ad, while the depressive title track echoes the famous \"Choose Life\" speech from Trainspotting, but both make their points a little clumsily. Fortunately, Wolf and Ashworth each prove to be positive enablers, adding nuanced touches when things get a bit too hamfisted. Base's chunky \"HaHa\" could pass for a minimalist tUnEyArDs track; Ashworth's soulful, lonely \"Dwight\" features carousel music piped in from the ends of the earth. Not quite stylistic opposites but still distinctly different, the two producers almost always make sure to stay on the same page, taking skeletal percussive tracks and shocking them with little flecks of light. But as with much of Family and Friends, that light seems to be just out of reach. "}