{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16753/homepage_large.20a86518.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Singer","title":"Mindreading","text":" It's best not to go looking for an explanation as to why Singer have taken so long to follow their 2008 debut, Unhistories. Or what the impenetrable front and back covers mean, or why the song titles appear only on a loose sheet of paper tucked inside the album sleeve. The liner notes indicate the Chicago artrockers recorded Mindreading in April 2009, with mixing later that year by Randall Dunn a producer for heavymusic heavyweights Sunn O))) and Earth. Meanwhile, with former U.S. Maple guitarist Todd Rittman leaving to focus on his Dead Rider project, Singer have slimmed down to a threepiece: exU.S. Maple drummer Adam Vida; his brother, Ben; and former 90 Day Men bassist Robert A.A. Lowe (who also records solo as Lichens). Beyond that, their new album's as mysterious as Lowe's brief collaboration with TV on the Radio. The air of inscrutability surrounding this band helps align Mindreading with some preinternet Drag City releases. It's reminiscent of something you'd stumble across in the racks of a record store and take a chance on, perhaps because of the label or a familiar name credited on the back sleeve. Even the enigmatic covert art might be enough. The musical offerings inside continue that theme; it's never really clear who's singing, what the words are, or which instruments were used. The sighing falsettos that rise and fall against stuttery percussion and chunky analog keyboard runs on opener \"Sister's Mane\" will be familiar to anyone who remembers Unhistories, but there the similarities mostly end. Guitars are on the backburner for much of this recording, with condensed synth tones pushed firmly to the fore. \"Voices from the Tapes\" flicks back and forth between a serene central groove and great piles of ugly electronics. On the following \"Wi(s)tches\", the group's vocals battle with analog sounds that reach a piercing screech as the song dawdles to a close. There are germs of good ideas here: For instance, the woozy, multilayered singing in \"Dial \"M\" for Mother\" edges close to the kind of work Doseone occasionally hits on in Subtle. Too often, though, Singer are on a journey with no particular destination in mind, especially when they lurch from the ugly liquid funk of \"Gabbing\" into the unfocused crooning of closer \"Bitter'd Moon\". It's a shame, because the track records of everyone involved suggest Mindreading could have been a different proposition. Instead it's all untethered strands of work loosely floating around, with occasional moments of clarity that might make this a record worth returning to when another three years have passed. "}