{"label":" Datpiff.com / 1017 Brick Squad","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16772/homepage_large.b0062cf2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Gucci Mane","title":"Writings on the Wall II","text":" Gucci Mane has lowered expectations considerably in the past year. In addition to the rapper's recidivism issues and garish facial tattoos, his Brick Squad guest spots have been as inspiring as a gamesix LeBron James performance. But by almost any standard, Writings on the Wall II is a major comeback. There are no weak tracks or unfortunate production choices, and Gucci's delivery, if not his lyrical content, retains its distinctive character. Musically, he's adapted his unique songwriting approach to a more aggro era, welcoming Brick Squad mixtape mercenaries Lex Luger and Southside to the fold. The new sonic strategy works as quick sleight of hand to distract from what could otherwise be some repetitive moments on a 70minute rap record. It helps that the everversatile Drumma Boy produces the bulk of the record's back end. Drumma's highlight here, \"Translation\", ratchets up tension with simple, ascending piano lines, a trick the producer has used before. Few beatmakers can create a larger variance of ideas and moods with such minor modifications of a simple formula. (It may be no coincidence that Gucci's lyrical approach functions in a similar manner). His beat for 50 Cent feature \"Recently\" throws out the rulebook completely. A walking bass line transforms into a mindwarping rumble during the chorus, while an organ riff hits at unpredictable rhythmic angles, giving the entire song a frenetic tension. Southside takes some unexpected liberties, too, most impressively on \"Major\", where lightly tapped snare and exhaled background vocals create an odd sense of ominous delicacy. Fat Boy's \"Camera Ready\", the tape's standout, bears more similarity to recent Brick Squad tracks like producer Prince's epic \"Like a Dream\" than the typical Fat Boy sound (\"Wasted\"). Lyrically, Gucci is considerably more generic now than during his memorable 20082009 run. Even when his flow hits its doubletime stride, he's still falling back on traprap clichés. Missing are the moments of narrative power, like his verses on \"Frowney Face\"; gone is the mustrewind imagery that used to dominate his tapes. Gucci acknowledges on \"Gucci Talk\" that he has returned to the \"no pad, no pencil\" style of his earlier work. But when 2008's No Pad No Pencil came out, everything Gucci was releasing seemed to push hiphop's possibilities in new directions. Writings on the Wall II instead consolidates several song structures he has done before, wedding them to some (stunning) contemporary production. Gucci's lyrics weren't celebrated for their complexity, although he deployed that strategy on occasion. His lyrics' power stemmed from the imagery and humor he used to render in full color a world that for most rappers exists only in black and white. To the tape's considerable credit, Gucci disappoints here only when compared with himself. "}