{"label":" E1","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16764/homepage_large.840e1ae3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Red Hot + Rio 2","text":" The Red Hot Organization was founded in 1989 with a noble if idiosyncratic mission: to fight AIDS through pop culture. At the time, the general public was just beginning to understand what AIDS actually was and how it could be transmitted. Red Hot's decision to raise money for AIDS research by selling themed albums featuring prominent musicians helped raise awareness as well as funds, and its first compilation, 1990's Red Hot + Blue, featuring David Byrne and Tom Waits, among others, covering Cole Porter songs, sold more than a million copies and made millions of dollars for AIDSfocused nonprofits. Twentyone years later, Red Hot + Rio 2 is the 12th Red Hot title, and the organization has released nine other compilations (including No Alternative and Dark Was the Night). The math is a little different these days. Not as many people buy CDs, and the idea of selling a million of these seems almost quaint (2009's Dark Was the Night still managed to raise more than a million dollars, though). AIDS awareness is also in a very different place in an odd way, people in the United States seem to have almost forgotten how bad the pandemic really is, and how crushing it is in a lot of societies, especially in SubSaharan Africa. AIDS has become something that's just there, in the background, and we may know a few people who have it, but the aura of public health crisis has fallen away from it in our media. So in that way, building awareness is just as important as ever. Red Hot + Rio 2 is a followup to the 1996 Red Hot + Rio installment, which was focused on an update of 60s bossa nova sounds. This moves on to a contemporary take on Tropicália, and the list of collaborators involved includes a few original Tropicálistas: Rita Lee (solo), Os Mutantes (with of Montreal), Tom Zé (with Javelin), and Caetano Veloso (solo and with David Byrne). It also features Beck and Brazilian singer Seu Jorge doing a version of the former's own \"Tropicália\", and a mix of other artists doing covers of original Tropicália songs and new tunes written in descended styles. These artists, working alone and together in various combinations, come from at least four continents, and you'll hear Brazilians singing in English, Americans singing in Portuguese, and all sorts of other oddities. Sonically, this is aimed in a strange place, somewhere near the middle of the road, but not quite there it edges into toosmooth territory on the John Legend and Twin Danger tracks, but also into funky surrealism on the Os Mutantes/Of Montreal update of \"Bat Macumba\" and into heady jazz on Madlib's collaboration with veteran Brazilian singer Joyce Moreno. Some of the best tracks either feature Tropicálistas or their songs. Gilberto Gil's classic \"Aquele Abraço\" gets a propulsive, percussionheavy funk reworking courtesy of Forró in the Dark, Brazilian Girls and Beninese singer Angélique Kidjo. David Byrne and Caetano Veloso sound great dueting on \"Dreamworld/Marco De Canaveses\", backed by spooky synths and strings. Veloso's simple \"Terra\" also sounds good getting picked apart by Prefuse 73 and remade as it plays from a spare acoustic song into a gently dissonant orchestral work. In 2011, the mainstream benefit LP no doubt plays a delicate balancing act, trying to be interesting enough musically to connect with adventurous listeners, but broadly appealing enough not to drive off more casual listeners who want to contribute to a good cause while buying one of the very few CDs they'll purchase all year. There's a sweet spot in between that Red Hot + Rio 2 comes close to hitting over the course of its two discs. Some of it will be a little too outthere for some people, and some of it will be a little too harmless for others. But overall, it's an interesting assemblage of artists, and the music is good, covering just enough ground that you can feel the variety but no one's likely to be overwhelmed. "}