{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16773/homepage_large.50f675a0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Fennesz","title":"Seven Stars","text":" It's weird to think of a Christian Fennesz record as \"comfort food,\" but that's what living with an experimental artist's work will do. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the Austrian avantguitarist and corrupted software whiz trafficked in the harsh and unpredictable \"glitch\" sound of his benefactors at the Mego label. But as he began to play openly with the surf'sup sound of 60s pop on 2001's Endless Summer, listeners not usually into grating improvised noise began to find a way into Fennesz's world. He became one of the 21st century's more improbable crossover figures, and one of its most inventive advocates for bringing the guitar into a brave new laptop world. Fennesz's music hasn't shied away from darker places since, but his love of twisted beauty allows people a chance to become familiar with, even soothed by, a sound that seems decidedly notforeveryone on the surface. A fourtrack EP, Seven Stars is Fennesz in an almost purely placid mode, not too dissimilar to what he was exploring a decade ago. The least comfortable moments here, like \"July\", aren't all that different from the dark ambient the Aphex Twin was exploring circa SAW II. Even the metallic buzz that rises like the sound of insects on a summer night stays on just the right side of being shrill. Tracks like \"July\" and the cinematic \"Shift\" are about as uncomfortable as music can get while remaining immersive rather than alienating. The last few years have seen a glut of dayatthebeach acts using digital tools to capture a sense of summertime fun. Aside from the fact that he arguably got there first with Endless Summer, Fennesz's music is never quite so glib or obvious, attempting to capture the vibe of bands like the Beach Boys without the aid of quotes, hooks, harmonies, or even the stable ground of pop song structure. On \"Liminal\" and the title track, he evokes the heartsick string arrangements of the Pet Sounds era with unnatural swells of computerized sound that nonetheless have a real lowkey emotional punch. And while his guitar is both bright and sad, a pure 60s balladeer tone, his playing still follows an improviser's inscrutable logic. Seven Stars is a welcome if not surprising dose of what Fennesz has been doing well for a decade now, playing on the thin edge between familiar pleasures and the truly outthere. "}