{"label":" Rvng Intl.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16777/homepage_large.acd3fe27.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Borden, Ferraro, Godin, Halo & Lopatin","title":"FRKWYS Vol. 7","text":" The concept for RVNG's FRKWYS series meetings between young experimental musicians and veterans is nothing revolutionary, but so far the results have been quite rich for oneoff collaborations. That trend continues with Vol. 7, for which the label first approached Daniel Lopatin, aka Oneohtrix Point Never. Together they brainstormed a project involving minimalist composer David Borden. The latter's résumé is wide even including a mostlyunused score for The Exorcist but he's best known for founding the synth ensemble Mother Mallard's Portable Masterpiece Company. That group began in 1969 playing Moog versions of pieces by Terry Riley, Philip Glass, and Steve Reich. Soon they began composing their own music and experimenting with newer electronics, something they continue to do today. Such openness to sounds and ideas comes through on the five pieces here, which are impressively varied despite being pretty uncomplicated. Part of that variety is due to the participants Lopatin brought into this session last August James Ferraro, Laurel Halo, and Samuel Godin, all open creative minds on their own. But what's most impressive about Vol. 7 is how it never sounds like a mess of piled up activity, or five voices elbowing for room. If someone told you this was made by one person, you'd probably believe them. So it's not too farfetched to guess that, for two days in the studio, these five became of one mind, joined by a simple sonic vision. Perhaps Borden is just that forceful a musical personality, steering his comrades toward a very distinct set of goals. However these tracks came together, the unity of purpose is evident throughout. It starts from the very first seconds of opener \"People of the Wind Pt. 1\", a 12minute drone that constantly builds and expands, marrying airy etherealness to dense guts in a way that recalls Stars of the Lid's best epics. From there, the ensemble winds through a range of moods and timbres. \"Internet Gospel Pt. 1\" warps like an underwater wedding processional; \"People of the Wind Pt. 2\" adds a sense of galactic transmission to Pt. 1; and \"Twilight Pacific\" fuses Lopatin's flowing repetitions to Borden's Terry Rileyish allnightflight inclinations. All of this can get pretty spacey and drifting; you'll need some predilection for things like OPN, Emeralds, or the early Kranky roster to fully dig into such synthedout pieces. Stick with it, though, and you'll get rewarded by closer \"Just a Little Pollution\", whose rippling synths and haunting Julee Cruiselike vocals presumably provided by Halo make it a kind of otherworldly pop song. It's as if these sonic sculptors spent the previous five tracks chiseling away at a big block of sound until it produced this shiny little gem. It's remarkable enough that this onetime alliance produced so much good improvised music, an approach so dependent on listening and communication that it can take years of trial and error to create the right working situation. But the fact that they also made that music build to an albumending peak gives Vol. 7 a shot at being a record that holds up over time, regardless of how impermanent this group itself may be. "}