{"label":" Interscope / Zone 4 Inc.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16780/homepage_large.b56e52d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Lloyd","title":"King of Hearts","text":" No contemporary R&B singers approximate the elusive stomachbutterfly rush of infatuation as consistently as Lloyd. \"Lay It Down\", King of Hearts' peak moment and a lead single that predates the record by nearly a year, is an exemplar: Its innocent, almost naïve earnestness is married to a preternatural sense for R&B vocal acrobatics, giving dimension and believability to his devotion. A distinctive talent, Lloyd often let his vocals dance around the periphery of a song, giving his best tracks a spacey, removed quality. As a whole, the LP takes a major step toward streamlining his sound, pushing Lloyd's voice to the center and making a bid for a higher level of recognition in the R&B world. Despite a few missteps, it is a major success, in large part due to the chemistry of Lloyd with producer Polow Da Don. Lloyd's knack for endearing romanticism is a vehicle for great music, and when the record falters, it feels like a misunderstanding of how his talent operates. The superfluous intro track can be forgiven thanks to its brevity and a surprisingly clunkerfree verse from the Game. But \"Dedication to My Ex (Miss That)\", the first full song on the album, is bizarre and clumsy. The generic, fauxMotown beat frames the track as a joke, along the lines of Cee Lo's \"Fuck You\". Perhaps the right performance could have saved lyrics that fetishize the vagina as a relationship's vestigial remnant, but it's hard to buy the tongueincheek selfdeprecation of a line like \"I'm about to kill this bitch!\" from an artist typically so wrapped up in enthusiastic sincerity. Aside from this misstep and a platitudinous track aptly titled \"World Cry\", King of Hearts seems perfectly matched to fit Lloyd's strengths. Polow clearly understands those strengths. Outside the occasional producer's flourish like the grinding bass break that opens Young Jeezy's verse on \"Be the One\" his work is primarily devoted to underlining Lloyd's vocals for maximum impact. On \"Naked\", Lloyd's performance has a dreamy distance from the physical reality of sexuality; instead, his vocals are draped in softly descending washes of guitar and muted trumpet lines, giving a sensuous texture to this awestruck ode to beauty. Single \"Cupid\"'s exuberant chorus baits cynical listeners: It works so well as a radio single because, through mild repetition, the hook's infectious idealism overwhelms any resistance. The heart of the record, though, are tracks like the euphoric headrush \"Jigsaw\", where Lloyd's sense of rhythm lets his vocals dance confidently in the subdivisions of the groove, balancing sugary enthusiasm with deft physicality. Many of the album's best songs seem to inspire comparisons with dancing: There is a connection to the idea of dance as liberation here, as Lloyd's blushing sincerity builds up potential energy, the nimble performance acts as a release valve. In an echo of Aaliyah's \"Loose Rap\", album highlight \"Shake It 4 Daddy\" finds Lloyd dancing atop a vocal shadow; somehow, in his hands, even strip club storytelling comes across as boyish flirtation. Although the lyrics imply he's in the audience, the song's excitement suggests Lloyd is the one performing. "}