{"label":" Brainfeeder","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16778/homepage_large.7c4f0d82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Samiyam","title":"Sam Baker's Album","text":" This year, producers like Clams Casino, Araabmuzik, DJ Burn One, and Main Attraktionz' Squadda B have been turning out amorphous beats that sound just as good (and especially in Clams' case, better) without someone spitting over them. The music they're making is beguilingly strange, and although much of it carries bits and pieces of J Dilla's legacy, most sounds far removed from his dusty knock. Dilla set a precedent for the producerasauteur movement, but his influence is less apparent in the twisted synths and borrowed trance figures of this year's most interesting beatmakers. Of course, there are still plenty of people carrying Jay Dee's torch in 2011: a good deal of the soul stable in Stones Throw, for example (JRocc, Oh No, Dilla's spiritual cousin and fellow innovator Madlib), as well as California's Sam Baker, aka Samiyam. His second longplayer, Sam Baker's Album, is being released by Brainfeeder, Flying Lotus' label another artist whose early work was heavily indebted to Dilla (though creatively, he's in a much different place now). Compared to the futurist glitch work that's been released on Brainfeeder as of late, Sam Baker's Album sounds quite formalist in execution, right down to the last delayed beatdrop. Still, this isn't exactly a \"real instrumental hiphop, naw'mean\" traditionalism. Tart, whinnying keyboards abound, as well as a fair share of oozing bloops. But there's an enticing familiarity to what Samiyam is doing here, even if its own tiny eccentricities and abstractions take a few listens to wholly unpack. The stonergiggle vocal samples scattered throughout only accentuate the record's sticky, loping feel; needless to say, there's a certain smoky atmosphere this music was almost tailormade for. When he leaves the arena of sampled hiphop signifiers and heads toward more abstract pastures, however, the material loses itself in its own towelunderthedoor haze. Baker's early EPs (especially his 2008 Return EP for Hyperdub) were smothered with melodic wooze, which made the relatively straightforward boombap snippets on that same year's Rap Beats, Vol. 1 LP seem a little rote and oldhead by comparison. Sam Baker's Album continues on the latter path, but with a little more attention paid to the use of empty space. In other words, it's \"Sam Baker's album\" by name and ownership, but it's also another beat tape in a very crowded field, one where it's easy to get lost amidst the increasingly innovative producers working now. "}