{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16781/homepage_large.3a750486.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Eternal Tapestry / Sun Araw","title":"Night Gallery","text":" For the past couple of years, Eternal Tapestry and Sun Araw have been gliding along parallel paths. The Portlandbred spacerock group and the Long Beachbased vibe merchant both skew toward the softer side of psychedelia, using primitivist improvisation and a palette of mellow sounds to generate potent new age zoneouts. Night Gallery, a 40minute jam session recorded last year for Austin's KVRX FM, brings them together with unsurprisingly trippy results. Tapestry's Dewey Mahood and Nick Bindeman take the lead, playing expansive guitar solos while Araw's Cameron Stallones supplies heady textures on flute and keyboard. The rhythm section, comprising drummer Jed Bindeman and bassist Yoni Kifle, mostly lays low. Night Gallery is still, slowly evolving music, where the perspective shifts gradually if at all. The performance has been edited into four suites, but it flows like a single, continuous piece. Imagine King Tubby crashing an allnight Crazy Horse rehearsal, or a mixtape compiled from a decade's worth of \"Dark Star\" bootlegs (which exists, actually). While Eternal Tapestry and Sun Araw are of a similarly mystical bent, their methods differ. The former is a fairly traditional rock ensemble, complete with guitars, drums, and even the odd saxophone solo. Stallones' approach using cassette loops as a rhythmic foundation for lush and lightly funky guitar twiddling is less familiar. The music on his 2010 2xLP, On Patrol, sounded like it drifted in from a thirdworld scifi metropolis. Night Gallery shifts back and forth between these two feels. With dense drones and wahwah gurgles, \"Night Gallery I\" tilts heavily toward Sun Araw's dubinflected territory. Nine minutes later, the burden shifts. On \"Night Gallery II\", he's a supporting player, slipping organ gurgles into Tapestry's tumbling raveup. During the fourth and final suite, the group follows a steady organ pulse through 14minutes of abstract doodles, refusing to congeal around a single melody for more than a few moments. It's either an admirable display of restraint or adequate evidence of inebriation, but the track excellently subverts spacerock clichés. The predictable part where everybody locks and hits the gas never arrives. Eternal Tapestry and Sun Araw share an affinity for foggyheaded 1970s experimental outfits Cluster and Popol Vuh, but the performance on Night Gallery has a less sinister and more laidback, ambling feel that's more in line with the Grateful Dead. There are bum notes, and rhythms that wander. But Eternal Tapestry and Sun Araw mesh well. When they hit a groove, they're a match made in a UV lamplit and sagescented stonerrock heaven. "}