{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16788/homepage_large.5d6ba3e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Inc.","title":"3 EP","text":" We don't really know each other, but I'm gonna guess that you love Prince. Or, at a minimum, you respect the man even if he really hasn't done much worth a shit in the past 15 years or so. This shouldn't be a problem except there's probably no pop music figure of the past century whose universal acclaim is matched by an almost total inability of his acolytes to create proper homage. We come across respectable integrations of Bowie, Dylan, Lennon, and Brian Wilson, but especially amongst rock musicians who use the Purple One's legacy as their mainline to R&B the whole of his work is often distilled into a falsetto and a bunch of terrible sexual puns. Well, if Inc. prove anything on their 4AD debut EP 3, it's that you can plunder the lesserknown regions of his discography, boast impressive instrumental chops, and still be no better off than some hapless power trio trying to rip off \"Little Red Corvette\".  At its core, Inc. (formerly known as Teen Inc. during their particularly galling 2010 CMJ set) is comprised of Los Angelesbased brothers Daniel and Andrew Aged, both of whom are experienced session musicians. Which shows, not so much in the sense that 3 displays their virtuosity as much as their keytarswinging live show, though there are plenty of geeky timestamps and frilly synth doodles. It's more in how its overcooked arrangements bear the mark of backup players overcompensating after finally getting ahold of the mixing console, and 3 turns out to be a maximalist grotesquerie of minimal sounds. \"Heart Crimes\" wanders around in search of a tune or even a beat for nearly five minutes while occasionally busying itself with Three 6 Mafia's 32ndnote hihats, vocal snippets that drift like paper bags in the wind, and synth slapbass presets so offbeat they sound more like Spike Jones sound effects. This may not be particularly shocking, but mixing all of those elements turns out to be a total fucking disaster. Slightly more successful are the two tracks that play with straightforward melody. At first glance, the arrhythmic hook of \"Swear\" ingratiates due to its own nagging repetition, but if you're steeped enough in the realm of 1980s radio pop to appreciate Inc.'s simulacra, odds are you'll eventually recognize it as a pretty brazen rip of \"Sussudio\". Not that there's anything inherently wrong with \"Sussudio\", but once that connection is made, it can never go back to being \"Swear\". \"Millionairess\" sounds like a way out of their own rut, or at least a chance to bat oneforthree, but they abandon its quickhitting chorus for a mess of vocal mutations that barely acknowledge a slowly simmering New Jack Swing beat. Credit where it's due for trying to enter Zapp & Roger and Andre Cymone into the PBR&B conversation without being total ironists, but \"Chromeo, except no fun at all\" isn't what the game's been missing. "}