{"label":" Bark and Hiss / Wagon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16790/homepage_large.6e90a309.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Mark McGuire / Trouble Books","title":"Trouble Books and Mark McGuire","text":" If you were in a band and looking for a hiredgun guitarist, Mark McGuire probably wouldn't be the first name to pop into your head. There's a distinct chance the Clevelandbased solo artist and member of tweakedout futurist outfit Emeralds might take your record and run away with it. That's a chance Akronbased Trouble Books, the husbandandwife duo of Keith Freund and Linda Lejsovka, prove willing to take on this collaborative LP, released on their own Bark and Hiss label. Luckily for both parties, Trouble Books and Mark McGuire demonstrates a healthy cooperative relationship. The two factions built most of these songs by improving upon one another's already halfformed ideas; figuring out where one party's contribution stops and the other starts soon becomes impossible. Trouble Books seem to work in negative space, letting their insectlike electronic chatterings, spare string pieces, and slowburning, upwardsloping synths litter the calm. McGuire snakes through these structures in a number of attentiongrabbing ways, filling the molds with recognizable, frenetic layerings one moment (\"The Golden Waste\") and unleashing a scorching hairmetal wail (\"Song for Reinier Lucassen's Sphinx\") the next. The goodnatured piggybacking coheres into a unified and direct whole. In fact, while at times these tracks feel like extraterrestrial Neil Young ballads, the most gratifying thing about Trouble Books is how completely immersive it is, especially album centerpiece \"Local Forecast\". A play on \"Forecast\" and \"Extended Forecast\" from McGuire's 2009 record A Pocket Full of Rain, the track exemplifies how even the most crowded McGuire/Trouble Books composition is still an exercise in transfixing clarity. Both Freund and Lejsovka sing on nearly every cut here, and while their calm, flat vocals may prove a little too distracting for some, they help reinforce the album's lackadaisical, daydreamlike feel. Their vague, oddly graceful observations can be simplistic, but they provide a nice contrast to the sheer lushness of the music. Trouble Books brings together people who have an unusual knack for finishing each other's thoughts, and the result is an uncompromisingly pretty record. "}