{"label":" Streamline","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16812/homepage_large.05822061.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Nicholas Szczepanik","title":"Please Stop Loving Me","text":" When I first started listening to Nicholas Szczepanik's latest album, its title felt off by 180 degrees. Its single, 48minute track is warm, reverent, and emotional. Compared to some recent trends in drone, which tend more toward the dark and cavernous, Please Stop Loving Me's bright organ tones are practically hymnlike. In other words, this is music that sounds like it wants you to love it. The further I got into the album, though, the more Szczepanik's wry choice of name made sense. Whenever you try to get too comfortable with his drones to glide across their surface or ride them like a soft cloud he pushes back. His sounds constantly twist, dive, and circle, avoiding complacency and requiring you to do the same. Innumerable shifts in volume, tone, and tempo occur with sneaky unpredictability. Often Szczepanik will lull you into calm waters before tossing you into choppy waves. There is a lot to love here, much of it mesmerizing, even soothing. Just don't turn your brain off, because Szczepanik is more interested in challenging than hypnotizing. The beauty of Please Stop Loving Me is that he manages to do both consistently. There's really no point along Szczepanik's journey which doesn't feel long or short, but more outside of time where the music's meditative qualities outstrip its thoughtprovoking ones or vice versa. In that sense, his material reminds me most of the careful work of Kyle Bobby Dunn. There's an intangible similarity between the ways both musicians turn sounds and patterns into wordless emotional language. But where Dunn is a master at massaging his tones toward quietude, Szczepanik excels at finding subtlety and nuance in immersive volumes. Even at his softest here, he could fill an airplane hangar with his music. Szczepanik's work conjures lots of images like that one. Whenever I listen, I find myself thinking in pictures and metaphors, giving shapes and colors to his sounds the way I imagine the faces and voices of characters in a book. So it's tempting to concoct a narrative that could accompany this sonic epic, and claim that its arcs and curves are scene changes and plot twists. Maybe they are, but what impresses most about Szczepanik's story is that it could be told only with sound, and only through his particular, engrossing way with it. "}