{"label":" Very Friendly / 101 Distribution","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16824/homepage_large.c8bbe5e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Cut Hands","title":"Afro Noise I","text":" When artists with established styles shift into new sonic territory, they're often reluctant to talk about the change. After all, words can ruin the mystery of something as abstract as musical direction. William Bennett must not be worried. In interviews and on his various blogs, the founding member of UK noise group Whitehouse has openly discussed his fascination with Africa, how it influenced Whitehouse, and how it eventually led to his Cut Hands solo project. Bennett has even given his new style a name: \"afro noise.\" Bennett's candor turns out to be wise, because the more you know about Cut Hands, the deeper and richer the music sounds. The artist's longtime interest in African culture and world sociopolitical issues (see his Extreme Music From Africa compilation, or the reading list on his website) adds layers of meaning to the songs. When you learn that Bennett has studied African voodoo, or that he uses native instruments like djembes and doun douns, all the rattling activity on Afro Noise I starts to sound like the rumblings of a global subconscious. Besides, there's still a lot of mystery here, particularly in how Bennett can make such spacious, oftencatchy music retain the penetrating relentlessness of Whitehouse's allout noise. Part of it is simple evolution: Three of the tracks here are from previously released Whitehouse albums, and they complement newer pieces that mix gunfire beats, heavy atmospheres, and piercing tones. But even the songs that skew furthest from Whitehouse like \"Impassion\", which could soundtrack a nature documentary have the dark, foreboding quality of Bennett's previous work. In keeping with Bennett's omnivorous tastes, Afro Noise I also shows impressive sonic variety. On \"Stabbers Conspiracy\", overlapping layers of pulse and clang reach Autechrelike levels, while the echo of \"Rain Washes Over Chaff\" and grind of \"Shut Up and Bleed\" dart between eerie calm and screeching panic. Ultimately, every sound that Bennett adds to his core of percussion reinforces the beats. But taken together, those sounds are a lot thicker and thornier than they appear on first listen. Still, this album is pretty accessible, and the question of whether Bennett fans would like this music were it done by someone without a noise pedigree will inevitably arise. But with Cut Hands, the point seems moot it's hard to imagine anyone else making Afro Noise I. Certain tracks can be compared favorably to other artists for me, the more filmic pieces call to mind the Residents' underrated soundtracks to the Discovery Channel series Hunters. But as a whole, Afro Noise I has a scope and vision that's pure Bennett, making this new direction less a wild leap than a supremely logical step. "}