{"label":" Tiger Style","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/156/homepage_large.e55b1eb9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"American Analog Set","title":"Know by Heart","text":" The American Analog Set make the kind of music that wraps around you like a homeknit sweater the sleeves may be a little irregular, but the elements can't get you. And on top of that, it's totally one of a kind, just like that sweater. Low, Seely, and the New Year played through a pillow are good points of reference for the American Analog Set, but over the course of four albums and a rarities compilation, the band has grown far too unique to bare direct comparisons. This band is the only one I've heard that can open an album with a song called \"Punk as Fuck\" and make it feel like you're curled up next to a fire with a good book. Vibes swell around you, guitars meditate in the background, and then the vocals enter, a soothing tenor calling you out of the real world and into that warm place. Brushed drums and barelythere bass propel the proceedings with measured patience. There's nothing urgent about this music; it flows at its own pace. From there, Know by Heart flows gracefully through a series of warm textures and somnambulant melodies, much like the band's past efforts. Thankfully, though, the band have avoided becoming stuck in a holding pattern, leaving their old trademark Farfisas in mothballs, and instead pulling out a phalanx of alternately soothing and buzzing organs and Rhodes pianos, changing up the sound often. The band also toys with a few new tempos and meters. Overall, the effect of these changes is that Know by Heart offers a great many more standout moments than any other American Analog Set album, but winds up feeling a bit less consistent as a result. That's a small price to pay, though, when you get songs like \"Million Young,\" with its brisk rhythm and buzzy organ, or \"Aaron & Maria,\" which aims to add another \"youngsters go off to the Big City\" chapter to the Great American Songbook. Warm, clean guitars surreptitiously sink monster hooks into your cerebellum as laidback drums gently urge the song to its conclusion. There's something extremely admirable about music that demands to be heard by whispering, never rising to a clatter or resorting to petulant whining to attract attention. Instead, the American Analog Set create quietly engaging hymns that make you want to pay attention. If you should choose to ignore it because it's not making a racket, well, hey, that's more for me.Know by Heart ends pretty much exactly where it should, with the pulsing \"We're Computerizing and We Just Don't Need You Anymore.\" Lyrically, the song holds an alltoofamiliar tale of technology replacing heart, but the music is what really gets me. The band casts a glance back toward their old sound here, while inconspicuously inserting a cold synth low in the mix, suggesting that the band themselves may be headed into the brave new world on future releases. But even if that world doesn't yield rewards as pleasing as this, it will probably at least bare giving a listen to. In the meantime, Know by Heart will remain a warm, reliable source of calm in a loud, confusing world. "}