{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16825/homepage_large.ea56b15e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Richard Buckner","title":"Our Blood","text":" The urgency you're bound to hear in Richard Buckner's voice throughout Our Blood isn't accidental. Though he's released an album every year or two during his twodecade career, Our Blood is his first since 2006's Meadow. Because that extended interim wasn't intentional, it was, as you might imagine, extremely frustrating. After Meadow, Buckner stopped writing records to focus on a score for a movie that was never released; after moving to upstate New York, he worked shifts holding signs for Con Edison construction crews and assisting the Census Bureau before turning his focus back toward a proper LP. His tape machine broke, so he lost all his recordings. Then his laptop was stolen, so he lost all of his recordings again. But these restarts proved purposeful: Our Blood is the most concise, driven, and wellconsidered Buckner album in the last decade, his ruminative prosepoems becoming determined, lastchance exhortations. At one time a majorlabel musician, the peripatetic Buckner has worked with a staggering cast of stars over the years, from Guided by Voices alumnus Doug Gillard and Tortoise's John McEntire to esteemed fiddler Champ Hood and dobro maestro Lloyd Maines. His plans for Our Blood originally included Sonic Youth drummer Steve Shelley and some pedal steel, but the sessions were among those stolen. For expediency's sake, Buckner played almost all of Our Blood by himself, at home in Kingston, New York. Calling it spare would hedge on hyperbole, but there is a certain necessityborne restraint. Rather than create complicated convolutions, organs, electric guitars, electronics, and slight percussion mirror or augment the central themes. This economical approach pushes Buckner's voice into the spotlight, giving him a reason to make every word count \"a panicked freshness,\" he told me, describing his own singing here. Buckner's rarely sounded more authoritative and confident. For instance, during the album's masterstroke, \"Escape\", the instrumentation is a central acoustic guitar graced only by a few rudimentary keyboard flourishes. \"Let's waste the night/ Pay the price and get out of here,\" Buckner sings, his roomfilling baritone unencumbered by its surroundings as he makes his escapist order. His tone sort of forces you to agree. More or less, Our Blood seems to be an album about making better decisions in adulthood learning how to hold a job that doesn't hold you down, discovering how not to let bad friends and bar rooms ruin your life, realizing that the best days deliver something you'd never even considered. Buckner's voice feels experienced and empathetic, then, like a knowing pat on the back from a parent or an old friend that recognizes weakness yet pushes you ahead. He sings of \"shaking in the coldest hours,\" \"forgetting to forgive,\" and being \"caught in the lights, left again,\" like a veteran or a guide. If Our Blood has a fault, it's brevity: Its nine songs (including one slight and predictable instrumental) run only for about 37 minutes. But Buckner's elliptical, impressionistic writing style demands that most of those 37 minutes be heard, studied, and reconsidered. After all, Buckner remains one of the most intriguing songwriters working, using a style that's more likely to show up in anthologies of 20thcentury literature than in other Merge Records liner notes. On paper, these tunes are collections of highly punctuated paragraphs (not verses), full of pauses and runons and fragments. Diaphanous closer \"Gang\" is a set of two tangled, 70word questions that beg to be diagrammed; throttled midalbum highlight \"Witness\" mostly forms a spider web of seemingly inconsequential observations, like, \"Sometimes, it would get so cold,\" and \"Leaves, too young to fall.\" They're the kinds of phrases that cause the listener to pause midsong, the rest of it flying by before a meaning's been teased out. These songs store well more than a halfhour of reward and intrigue appropriate enough for a record that had to be made three times. "}