{"label":" Because / Phantasy","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16843/homepage_large.272af227.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Connan Mockasin","title":"Forever Dolphin Love","text":" Young New Zealander Connan Mockasin's lowwattage, shufflefooted, hypnadelic kiwipop's a little like shaking Syd Barrett awake from a nap, or maybe Tortoise jamming on Chills songs underwater. Or is it Black Moth Super Rainbow's Haunted Graffiti? Tricky as it is to pinpoint just what's sliding past in Forever Dolphin Love's psychemining slipstreams, it's awfully easy to get caught up in its current all the same. Mockasin's languid, drowsy psychwhimsy with its occasional brainbending detours into a selfmade language, more Sigur Rós goobledigook than WU LYF cookie monstrism seems to emerge from a gauzy dreamland state, only semiconscious of its constantly shifting positions. But if you don't come to Connan Mockasin expecting too much pep the first few minutes he's up and going, the gears eventually start to turn. Forever Dolphin Love opens with a gaggle of children shouting salutations at Mockasin: It is, by some distance, the loudest sound on the LP. The stark, almost gestural tunes, Mockasin's wiggly, highpitched vocals whether slathered in Tobaccostyle smear or unadorned and the record's murky, twofloorsup mix don't exactly get the heart rate rising, but Mockasin's ease around both hooks and arrangements offer plenty to catch your halfattention. Its spindly guitars and squirmy vocals suggest nobody's in any particular hurry to get anyplace, yet Forever Dolphin Love's drifty hooks, when he gets around to them, never seem to wander too far off course. (Once awoken by those kiddies in the record's first few seconds, Mockasin may be a bit crusteyed throughout Forever Dolphin Love, but he's always got his wits about him.) Opener \"Megumi the Milkyway Above\" is something of a slacker samba, its gently descending melody and chipmunk vocals beamed directly from Mockasin's subconscious to yours. It slides into the untethered, almost subliminal \"It's Choade My Dear\": Halftravelogue, halfcome on, the tune wafts its way into the room and seems to hang there like a fog. Mockasin's ofttreated, clarityaverse, dareIsaywimpy vocals swallow syllables whole, further lending these slippery, spacious tracks their dreamlike quality. It's probably best, all told, that literal meaning takes a backseat to glorious nonsense on a record called Forever Dolphin Love. To that end, the title track all 10 minutes and four seconds of it is the album's deliriously comatose highlight, a rusty motorik giving way to a kooky, fauxnaif, headsticking hook. An occasional semiFloydian foundsound burst swirls around the stereo field: The almost skeletal arrangements occasionally give way to a jazzrock flareup, but these eyelid flickers never seem to disturb Mockasin's semiconscious state. Dolphin glides casually through song and snippet, its construction almost elliptical, its effect amniotic. As such, its highlights seem to emerge afterthefact, burrowing in while it's on and bubbling up later. Mockasin's a more ambitious songwriter than his sleepy demeanor would sometimes suggest, though the epic unravel of his tracks are proof enough of that. Ultimately, the everunraveling, mindsubmerged Forever Dolphin Love reveals itself to be the work of a guy who's sounding small but dreaming big. "}