{"label":" 3 Lobed","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16834/homepage_large.7afdbcde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Not the Spaces You Know, But Between Them","text":" Quick: How many record labels can you name? Unless you work inside certain sects of the music industry, the answer, at most, is likely a couple dozen. Yet the number of working imprints in the world from the biggest corporate conglomerates to the upstarts young bands craft only so they can have a logo to put on the back of whatever they issue is incalculable because it's everchanging. That is, running a record label is a risky business plan, where one mistake about the number of units you might move can torpedo the entire operation, where technological sea changes can wash the need for you and your product away. Labels, then, tend to memorialize every few years, commemorating every anniversary with a limitededition box set, a spree of concerts, or an appreciative giveaway. However deserved it may be, this is selfcongratulations of the purest sort, a proud proclamation that the brand has yet again made it to some arbitrary finish line. To that end, Three Lobed Recordings' Not the Spaces You Know, But Between Them is a different kind of birthday set. Meant to mark the 10th anniversary of the tiny North Carolina outsider music label, the collection subverts the usual order of such pieces, serving more as a celebration of the participating bands than the presenting brand. The packaging a hard paper box containing four LPs and liner notes, all designed by the instantly recognizable Portland, Ore., poster artist Casey Burns hardly mentions the anniversary. In fact, the label's name takes a smaller font than not only the bands included, like Sonic Youth and Sun City Girls, but also Burns himself. Inside, during an interview with Pitchfork contributor Marc Masters, label owner Cory Rayborn doesn't talk much about his happenstance journey into owning a label (he started it to release one Bardo Pond 10\") or the stylistic confines of Three Lobed (from broken folk to paneverything psychedelic explorations, there have been none). Rather, he spills his words about the acts involved, calling Steve Gunn \"transformational,\" suggesting Johnny Cash would have covered Wooden Wand, and labeling Mouthus as \"true auteurs.\" At least half of Rayborn's own short essay is spent thanking friends and expressing dismay that this is happening. Not the Spaces You Know, But Between Them is less a Three Lobed trademark proclamation than an earnest and excellent offering from one of America's best little labels. Most commemorative compilations like this simply stack a bunch of tracks from catalog artists sidebyside, reprising both the accomplishments of the label in question and offering a few selected gems that either never made it onto a release or have long been outofprint. But Spaces smartly gives full LP sides to seven bands, essentially affording each act the opportunity to create an EP that's simply part of something bigger. None of this material has ever been released. Considered on its own terms, each contribution from each band is stunning, most often as a summary of what they've done best. Mouthus' two sprawls, for instance, are violent churns of sound, splitting the unexpected distance between industrial music, power electronics, IDM and singersongwriter fare. A 21minute, relatively seamless collage of Comets on Fire rehearsals reminds that they’re one of the most ferocious bands of last decade’s psych revival. \"The Invisible Fire\" is one of Bardo Pond's customarily immersive zones, with guitar riffs, electronic whirs, and the alternating flute and contorted moans of Isobel Sollenberger forming a sheet of sound as thick as smoke from a woodland wildfire. And the three live cuts from Sun City Girls, recorded in 2004 at the band's last American show, vividly capture the group's range their guitar bravado and brilliance; their mix of country, jazz, rock and Middle Eastern music; their almostalien intercommunication; their humor; their interesting songs; their interest in exploring those songs' edges through improvisation. But these are all reaffirmations by bands with status to spare: Not the Spaces is, at its best, about future heroes. In the liner notes, Rayborn says that guitarist Gunn doesn't realize \"how ridiculously talented he is.\" His \"The Lurker Extended\" is a testament to ambition and narrative, plus a validation of the brilliance Rayborn suggest. Spiraling from slow, graceful licks to variations so fast and frenetic they seem to kick up sparks, Gunn's piece is the kind of statement that should make the unaware place him alongside the best acoustic masters, past and present. The young Pacific Northwest collective Eternal Tapestry has never sounded more forceful and convincing than they do on this alternate take of \"Doing Your Own Being\". With saxophone, bass, and guitars clinched in tidal unison, the band suggests the most triumphant souljazz of the 1970s, aggressively recreated by some stoned kids in a basement. D. Charles Speer & the Helix actually split the last side of the third record with Wooden Wand, but their sets are different sides of the same sermon. Led by Dave Shuford of the NoNeck Blues Band, the Helix handles two country classics with a tight grip, giving Gene Clark's endofinnocence tale \"Shooting Star\" a heartrending, Skynyrdsized coda. Wooden Wand's three originals are ramshackle country laments, strummed and sighed with threadbare despair. His tunes are written with the same deepseated gravitas that those Helix covers sport, showing that the blues don't necessarily depend on how they're offered. In his most polished country affectation, Shuford sings, \"It's all very clear/ It's near and then gone.\" Wand later slurs an answer, unaware: \"If this is a destination, call it No Survival Drive.\" Surprising as it may seem, Sonic Youth supplies this set's most positive, apt metaphor. Lee Ranaldo has released a record through Three Lobed, as has Thurston Moore's side project, Bark Haze. Sonic Youth never has, but Moore's own label, Ecstatic Peace, trades in many of the same circles as Three Lobed. Playfully titled \"In & Out\" and \"Out & In\", Sonic Youth's dual contributions were recorded a decade apart from one another, so Jim O'Rourke who plays bass on one song but not the other had left the band and so that, after September 11th, they had moved their Echo Canyon studio from New York City to New Jersey. Together, these songs show the band's consistent excellence as patient textural explorers. \"In & Out\" is Sonic Youth at their most tempered; \"Out & In\", the earlier of the pieces, is one of the most ferocious Sonic Youth jams ever put to tape. What begins as a winding, discordant instrumental suddenly finds this threeguitar, fivepiece configuration surging with a hardcorepunk intensity. Noise claws at the edges of the relentless beat. They sound scary. The interval between these tracks roughly coincides with Three Lobed's lifespan. Given that Sonic Youth's career was really just starting at the 10year mark, it serves as a promise of Three Lobed's continued vitality well past this landmark release. And considering the label's mostly spotless résumé and the incredible substance of this commemoration, it's difficult not to hope that suggestion holds true in this often anonymous, unstable industry. "}