{"label":" Hometapes","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16846/homepage_large.c2f3c838.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Collections of Colonies of Bees","title":"GIVING","text":" Milwaukee's Collections of Colonies of Bees has been called a side project to Pele, the postrock band that guitarist Chris Rosenau and drummer Jon Mueller founded in 1997. But those roles look pretty shaky now that Pele is defunct and CCB is still going strong. Founded almost concurrently with Pele, the project began as an outlet to explore folk and bluegrass in a postrock context, and while its purview quickly expanded, those origins are still vestigial in new album GIVING. They're tangible in the bright banjo plinking behind the guitar cascades of \"Lawns\", and they spiritually inform the conversational disposition of the instruments. Though the songs are as sprawling and segmented as the band's name, CCB brings a touch of relaxed humanity to a style of music that can be unduly grave. While peers such as Explosions in the Sky worship sheer trajectory, CCB seem more interested in the vistas that open up along the way. Downtown minimalism and ambient electronics have become pervasive influences, and during tiered ascents that take in the molten guitar waves of Rhys Chatham (with whom Mueller has worked) and the spectral patterns of Steve Reich, the band often wanders offcourse to linger in Enoinspired electronic wildernesses. Their adventurousness earned them a devoted fanbase, and their stock really took off in 2009, when they hooked up with Justin Vernon to create the widely admired Unmap as Volcano Choir. The foursong, halfhour GIVING is their first new record since then, and finds them saying hello to new fans while bidding goodbye to two outgoing members, Mueller and pianist Thomas Wincek. It feels both triumphal and valedictory, bypassing spacey tangents in favor of CCB's hardcharging live sound. Though GIVING may be an unusually eyesontheprize record for CCB, they still have more in common with questing, omnivorous postrock bands like Jaga Jazzist than with the singleminded crescendo hunters of the world. Variations of force and expression derive less from rhythmic and harmonic changes than from the accumulation and development of soulful ostinati, woven in and out of freer, more \"rock\" chord progressions. Though a guitar may occasionally break off for an expressive flight of fancy, there's seldom a single musician carrying the moment instead, they each lean into repetitive fragments that gradually coalesce into organic, blossoming wholes. At the deepest level, a collectivist honeycomb pattern prevails, and the onenote lead seared across alternating bars of the crunchy climax of \"Vorm\" is the closest thing you'll hear to a killer solo. This is rock music that has come almost completely unstuck from the blues, with a sleek, relentless drive subbing in for swing. Mueller's almost motorikstyle percussion sows accents in the intricate layers of pattern, so that similar instrumental passages take on different feelings of loping, staggering, or soaring. Still, it doesn't quite save the album from a somewhat monolithic quality, which is clearly intentional but can be a trifle wearisome. \"Lawn\" is the obvious anthem; \"Vorm\" is bucolic and churning; \"Lawns\" is moodier; and \"Vorms\" is the rangy epic. These cosmetic adjustments to one hypnotically bruising ideal only go so far, and if you're not in the mood to hear dudes being really stoked about their guitar playing, it can make for a long halfhour. But all in all, it's an exciting victory lap for a band whose confidence is highly palpable in this hardearned moment of high visibility. "}