{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16848/homepage_large.b2b05997.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"Alias","title":"Fever Dream","text":" In the late 1990s, the anticon. collective emerged as a unique label dedicated to bursting the boundaries of what could be reasonably considered hip hop: Battle freestyles reconstructed as abstruse beat poetry, hip hop production smeared into ambient drone, rap cadences and phrasings bent to indie folk ends. They were leaders with, at first, few followers. But as anticon.'s own recombinant styles began to calcify as Why? became more of a straightforward indie rock band, say, or Themselves increasingly spiraled up their own archlyinflected, hypersyllabic ass the label began to seem less like leaders and more like merely idiosyncratic outliers. Even as one of anticon.'s founding members, Alias has always maintained a decidedly low profile on the adventurous label: just a guy and his drum machines holed up in the home studio in Maine. And that's not only compared to big personality MCs like Doseone or Why?'s Yoni Wolf, but even to other inhouse producers, such as the relatively flash, TV Carnageabetted analog screwball Tobacco. Alias seems to relish a certain hermitic anonymity right down to the blankfaced moniker and it's an attitude reflected in his beats: moody, introspective tracks whose athletic drumming and melancholy melodies make for heavy headnodders but that can begin to feel a bit faceless. Latest album Fever Dream aims to disrupt Alias' comfortable patterns as a producer the one sheet talks of being \"reborn\" but it doesn't succeed in making the artist any more familiar, and the change of course feels less like a visionary renewal than it does a wellplayed catchup. From the first beat drop, Fever Dream is obviously informed by the vaporized, offkilter instrumentals of Flying Lotus and likeminded contemporaries: beats shuffle and scatter, bass hits low and leaves space in its wake, samples hiss and dissipate like the air is being sucked out of them, synth lines falter and wobble. This is most true of the album’s opening tracks \"Goinswimmin\" and \"Wanna Let it Go\". Deeper into the album, amidst the adaptation, Alias teases out some of his typically thick grooves and understated but staying melodies culminating with the onetwo combination of the inthepocket acoustic drum break that lights up the latter half of \"Dahorses\" and gives way to the dreamy \"ladida\" vocal echoes of \"Lady Lambin'\". Elsewhere, and to lesser effect, Alias calls in fellow anticon. collaborators Why? (whose starring turn in \"Well Water Black\" gave 2008 LP Resurgam an unlikely single) and Subtle's Dax Pierson. The former contributes a stretched, monosyllabic nasal wail to the chunky beat routine of \"Boom Boom Boom\", while Pierson plays keys and sings lead on the bloodless R&B drift of \"Talk in Technicolor\". So, no, Fever Dream's new direction doesn't quite recapture the genredissolving days of anticon.'s youth or remake Alias into a soontobe household name. It does, however, stand as another fine, frequently very satisfying effort from a dependable producer and deft beatmaker. "}