{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16854/homepage_large.1e878a3f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Milk Maid","title":"Yucca","text":" There are different ways to approach the band purgatory of \"indefinite hiatus.\" You could maintain a dignified silence, either letting the memory of your band live relatively untarnished in the hearts of fans, or maybe building up feverish anticipation for a lucrative reunion tour. You could start a blog, an acting career, or some other nonmusic project. There's also always the possibility of starting a new project to satiate your musical urges. Like many artists, Martin Cohen, bassist of UK ladrockers Nine Black Alps, has chosen Door No. 3, recording songs under the name Milk Maid primarily from his Manchester apartment. From the blast of distortion on opener \"Such Fun\" on, Yucca clearly basks in the influence of a few 1990s lofi indie greats. Guided by Voices have been the chief comparison so far, but Cohen isn't as strong a singer or as gifted a melodicist as Robert Pollard and where 11 songs make up Yucca's 33 1/2minute running time, GBV could easily cram at least two dozen songs in that window. Milk Maid is more similar to a group like Sebadoh in musical and lyrical content, combining mostly sunny, popfriendly melodies with macabre imagery and the occasional spate of abject selfloathing at least in the handful of lyrics that you can make out. Cohen injects a little irony into \"Such Fun\", delivering the bouncy, jaunty tune and its chorus of \"'Round, 'round, 'round, and over again\" with an affect so distant, that it sounds like he's lamenting a tedious exercise, regardless of the slightly more energetic backing vocals that punctuate the hook. \"Dead Wrong\" puts an emphasis on the former word of its title, with the song's first few lines splattered with blood from dismembered limbs and stab wounds in the stomach. The first verse of the 49second \"Kill Me Again\" simulates the backandforth of a lovers' spat, with Cohen singing, \"Kill me again... And then I'll kill you.\" Most of Yucca's violent images are delivered as a metaphor for a deteriorating relationship, relating to the death of a romance as death in the most literal terms. Reportedly inspired by the recording approach of Sic Alps, but mostly lacking the bloodthirsty snarl the San Francisco basement dwellers capturing on tape, Yucca is almost split evenly between propulsive, driving, popinfluenced garagerock tunes and downtempo almostballads covered in a thick topcoat of fuzz. The catchiest of these \"Can't You See\", with its acoustic guitar drownedout by heavily distorted electric guitar, latealbum climax \"Back of Your Knees', the buoyant powerpop of \"Not Me\" are torn wide open by earsplitting guitar solos, ably and excitingly straddling the line between noise and pop. While its lyrics especially the hook of \"She was American / She was an American girl\" aren't especially gripping, \"Girl\" provides a refreshing cool down in the midst of the blown, overheated amps exploding across most of the collection. A melancholy sway marks \"Someone You Thought You'd Forgot\", finding Cohen using his voice to deliver a kind of sadness that perfectly matches the song's chords. The song itself makes for an appropriate closing track it feels like the soundtrack for saying goodbye to someone, all long faces, downturned eyes, and slow, monotone speech. It's softer feel also illustrates the dynamic range Cohen has as a songwriter on his first solo outing, one that isn't especially revelatory or inventive, but does offer a solid starting point for the second chapter of his career. "}