{"label":" IAMSOUND","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16858/homepage_large.bee75614.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Fool's Gold","title":"Leave No Trace","text":" We sure got over Afropop real fast, right? Jokes aside, even if King Sunny Ade hasn't exactly surpassed Thurston Moore as a dominant post2007 influence, those spindly leads, clean guitar tones, and assorted hand percussion are more primary colors at this point than elements that automatically set a band apart. They were certainly omnipresent on Fool's Gold's 2009 selftitled debut, but the Los Angeles collective distinguished itself from its peers (including guitarist/songwriter Lewis Pesacov's more straightforward Foreign Born) with a rhythmic verve and a bewitching, enigmatic quality that wasn't entirely attributable to Luke Top singing primarily in Hebrew though that played a part. Now there's Leave No Trace, sung almost entirely in English, pointedly more conventional in song structure, and given a bright, crisp, electric sheen that uses its cover art as a guiding sonic principle. In other words, Fool's Gold made a Foreign Born record. But hey, Foreign Born albums are certainly enjoyable in their own right, and regardless of which band it came from, \"The Dive\" is the most immediately hooky song Pesacov's been involved with so far (unless you're counting his production with Best Coast). They skew more toward \"Brit\" than \"Afro\" in its pop, the galloping snare beat, briskly strummed acoustics, and highfretboard arpeggios recalling a soupedup Smiths or Orange Juice. You might even hear it as a mixtape staple for a summer crush based on its most stressed lyric (\"No I won't stop staring/ And I can't stop from watching\"), even if it's meant as rubberneck commentary on a friend guided by their own destructive impulses. Nothing else is quite as instantly ingratiating, but \"The Dive\" does reveal a sonic attitude that Leave No Trace follows even if the pinging guitar lines, lolling vocals, and rhythms take their inspiration from any number of continents, it all maintain a casual affability of an Echo Park barbecue. Take a blind taste test of the slipsliding bassline and grouphug harmonies on \"Wild Window\" or the quacking guitar effects of \"Street Clothes\" none of it would sound too out of place between a Red Hot Chili Peppers or Sublime track on a KROQ superset. Which is sort of a bummer, since Leave No Trace as a whole seems like a talented group of musicians perfectly alright with being the Red Stripe in a cooler of Budweisers, an enjoyable diversion distinguished by attractive packaging and a vague, ultimately unremarkable exoticism. Though prone to the occasional campBowie affectation, like the similarly worldly Zach Condon, Top favors an elongated croon that pulls notes like taffy and works up to some sticky harmonies. But too many melodies take the same kind of angles, leaving the choral turns of \"Wild Window\", \"Narrow Sun\", and the title track to be sorted out by a matter of increment. And while Top's lyrics concerning the bothersome pace of modern life generally create friction against their serotoninboosted arrangements, the words themselves give a whiff of just a little too much misplaced effort. Likewise, the band's formidable live dynamics are canceled out by the sleek and beveled production, leaving the sort of things that should be integrated touches the bump and grind Bollywood rhythm of \"Balmy\", the contrast between the hard, guttural consonants of Hebrew and melismatic English on \"Tel Aviv\", \"Lantern\"'s doowop affectations as the main focus. Having a name like Fool's Gold always felt like tempting fate, especially when working in a style that can be a battlefield for the Realness Wars. But this album title? On a record that aspires more to be sociable than remembered, they're really asking for it. "}