{"label":" Hardly Art","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16871/homepage_large.e4205cf8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Gold Leaves","title":"The Ornament","text":" Even if you don't know Grant Olsen by name, there's a good chance you've heard his voice. In 2007, Olsen and fellow Seattle resident Sonya Wescott released In Camera as Arthur & Yu. The pair took cues from a narrow set of influences the Velvet Underground's drowsy popleaning moments, the sunglassescool work of Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra but the results felt full and well executed. Four years later, Arthur & Yu seem to be on a hiatus, and Olsen's got a new gig: the hearty folkpop project Gold Leaves, who, like A&Y before it, is releasing its debut LP, The Ornament, on the increasingly reliable Sub Pop offshoot Hardly Art. The label affiliation provides the opportunity for a family affair, as Papercuts frontman Jason Quever lent a hand with production and instrumental flourishes. As a result, the record carries shades of Quever's own distant, faded brand of indie pop only, Olsen's compositions sound rounder and warmer than anything Papercuts have ever released. The fact that the album opens with the immense, elliptical \"The Silver Lining\" only hints at the fullbellied heat contained on the rest of the record. In Camera was a charming effort, but also a relatively smallsounding one; The Ornament is the exact opposite, with melodies that stretch across highways and drums so hollow you could live within them. The Ornament's expansiveness owes a fair bit to Olsen's voice, which sounds like it's been given an emotional B12 shot. His lyrics are prettily albeit somewhat emptily evocative, richly textured, and his tonal pronunciation (the \"POlice cars\" of \"Hanging Window\") adds temporal sentimentality to his words. Any narcotized simplicity Olsen previously possessed as a vocalist is basically over and done: Honestly, he may have one of the most flatout pretty voices in contemporary indie rock. Granted, the field for strong vocals in today's indie isn't exactly a crowded one, although the above descriptions will likely remind many of another certain Sub Popsigned bearded belter (hint: rhymes with \"Bobbin Plecknold\"). Like Fleet Foxes, Gold Leaves are doing nothing new this sound is comfortably familiar, like a rocking chair or stretch of welltrodden road. It's remarkable how well Olsen wears this new sound, though, to the point that the few cuts that reach back to his days in Arthur & Yu (\"Honeymoon\", \"The Companion\") can't help but feel slight by comparison. But there's a twist, as the swaying throb of \"Honeymoon\" yields a single sentiment besting the emotional distance of Olsen's previous work, repeated like a mantra: \"Come back to me.\" Take it how you will me, I'm hoping it means we won't have to wait so long to hear from him again. "}