{"label":" Gold Metal","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16868/homepage_large.b09aae7d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Big Business","title":"Quadruple Single EP","text":" When Seattle's Big Business were still a bassanddrums duo, they seemed like what could've happened if Lightning Bolt decided to become an actual metal band instead of a terrifying parody of one. Like that Providence duo, Big Business made busy music the sort of chaotic roiling thunder that can only happen when two expert musicians decide to make as much noise as possible. But unlike Lightning Bolt, Big Business put those gifts in service of burly bellowed hooks and the sorts of hammerhead riffs that would've impressed any highschool parkinglot hessian at any point over the past 40 years. Arriving just after band members Jared Warren and Coady Willis got the call to join Dale Crover as the Melvins' new rhythm section, 2007's Here Come the Waterworks was a piece of largerthanlife fistsup powerrock that would've nevertheless fit in just fine in any of the nation's finer dusty DIY noiserock warehouses. Since that album, Big Business have doubled their personnel one guitarist joined before 2009's Mind the Drift; another jumped on board last year. But on both Mind the Drift and the new Quadruple Single EP, Big Business' mission remained admirably unchanged, its focus squarely on the thudding, juddering roar of that Warren/Willis attack. On Quadruple Single, the guitars seem to be largely extraneous tinny squiggles that only take away attention from the primordial scuzz that still anchors the mix. If anything, the new guys seem to be on board for backingvocal duty more than anything else. And when opener \"Always Never Know When to Quit\" bursts into a gloriously hooky bridge, the extra voices succeed in making an alreadyhuge sound even bigger. On the first three tracks, though, those skyward melodies don't come quite often enough. Like recent tourmates Torche, Big Business know how to balance melody and sludge with aplomb, but sludge and strained timesignature gymnastics win out just a bit too often on the new tracks. It's still perfectly effective fuzzmetal, but it's coming from a group of guys who have done seriously indelible work with the same ingredients, so it comes off a bit too slight. What really redeems the EP, though, is the elementally dumb final track, a platonicideal snarl anthem called \"Guns\". The entire lyrical content of \"Guns\" is as follows: \"Guns! Guns! Guns are better than everything else!,\" repeated over and over. If that sounds like a fun goof, it is, but it's also something more. The track starts out as a ferocious martial stomp and builds from there, slapping on layer after layer of scratchy, brutal rocknoise and building into a dizzy roar of directionless animosity. In the right context the end of a shitty day, say, when my car stereo is cranked all the way up you could convince me that \"Guns\" is the single greatest thing Big Business have ever recorded. "}