{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16874/homepage_large.48c9a424.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Mister Heavenly","title":"Out of Love","text":" Eight years ago, the smart money would've bet against Nick Thorburn becoming one of the more industrious alumni to emerge from the early2000s Canadian indierock uprising his endearingly unstable former band, the Unicorns, could barely make it through a set without experiencing some sort of breakdown (be it technical or psychological). But while he has since emerged as the autonomous creative force behind the progpop ensemble Islands (tellingly, it was his face alone that graced the cover of 2009's Vapours) and recently released a low key solo album under the name Nick Diamonds (I Am an Attic), Thorburn has not forgotten what made the Unicorns so special: the alternately cheeky and tense dynamic between himself and exbandmate Alden Penner. As such, Thorburn has never shied away from the opportunity to match wits with a creative foil, teaming up with Jim Guthrie for the countrified Human Highway detour and, now, squaring off against Ryan Kattner aka Honus Honus of Philly carnival barkers Man Man in Mister Heavenly. Thorburn, of course, is no stranger to highconcept side projects (namely, his flirtations with hiphop in Th' Corn Gangg and Reefer) and, on paper, Mister Heavenly initially reads like a similarly orchestrated lark. The band rounded out by Modest Mouse drummer Joe Plummer was reportedly devised around a selfexplanatory subgenre they dubbed \"doom wop.\" The stuntcasting of actor Michael Cera as the band's bassist during their spring 2011 tour reinforced the assumption that Mister Heavenly would be a casual, lowstakes endeavor with which Thorburn and Kattner could amuse themselves before returning to their main gigs. But Mister Heavenly's Sub Pop debut proves to be something far more lasting and rewarding: Rather than serve as an outlet for their welldocumented eccentric streaks, Thorburn and Kattner's goodcop/badcop dynamic yields some of the most tightly focused, immediately engaging songs either principal has produced. Ironically, it's Plummer's band that seems to wield the most influence on the outset, with Thorburn's ominously quiet verses on the opening \"Bronx Sniper\" yielding to an immodest, unmousey grunge crunch and an especially Isaac Brockian howl from Kattner. But, as bracing an introduction as it is, the song's angstrock ballast does not provide the best showcase of Mister Heavenly's charms. These are more readily revealed when the band settle down and put their modernist spin on early, preBeatles rock'n'roll balladry and 1960s tropical pop. Paralleluniverse goldenoldies like \"I Am a Hologram\", \"Diddy Eyes\", and \"Hold My Hand\" may not fully live up to the transgressive promise of the \"doom wop\" descriptor but, like fellow 1950srock enthusiasts Black Lips and King Khan in their gentler moments, Mister Heavenly approach their AMradio inspirations with just the right balance of devotion and deviance. (To wit, on the winsome titletrackcumbandmissionstatement \"Mister Heavenly\", Thorburn is not so much claiming to be the man of your dreams as resigning himself to the impossibility of living up to the matineeidol ideal.) Out of Love's playful spirit sometimes crosses the line into unnecessary indulgence the rocksteady rhythm of \"Reggae Pie\" sounds like it'd be fun to groove on in the practice space, but probably didn't need to be featured as the album's longest track (complete with false ending), while the 98second song that actually bears the title \"Doom Wop\" doesn't even attempt to honor either half of the equation. (Oddly, its sludgy sloprock sounds uncannily like a tossedoff Ty Segall demo.) However, at no point does it feel like the players are simply using Mister Heavenly as a dumping ground for leftover song scraps they couldn't work into their primary projects: Every song here comes off like a true, collaborative union of the singers' singular personalities, with Thorburn's calm, childlike voice and Kattner's wizened oldsoul rasp trading verses and choruses in surprisingly complementary fashion. The effect is mutually corrupting by the time we reach the wonderfully warped penpal exchange \"Pineapple Girl\", Thorburn sounds like the creepy one while Kattner acts as the stabilizing force. Really, no one would ever accuse Islands or Man Man of lacking character and presence, but once Thorburn and Kattner return to their bands after this dalliance, you'll be excused for thinking they'll sound a little bit incomplete without one another. "}