{"label":" Bôłt / Monotype","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16867/homepage_large.2749d6f0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"MIMEO","title":"Wigry","text":" MIMEO is an acronym for Music in Movement Electronic Orchestra, but the name also brings to mind the obsolete duplication machine known as the mimeograph, responsible for so many blurry copies of gradeschool tests and local newsletters. It's an apt image, because Wigry, like any live album, is at best an approximation of the original event it attempts to reproduce. The performance that lead to this recording looks particularly impressive. The dozenstrong European ensemble performed this music in a church in Poland, with each member given a separate loudspeaker and seated beside each other across a long table. Participants include AMM guitarist Keith Rowe, IDM pioneer Christian Fennesz, Dutch improviser Gert JanPrins, Editions Mego founder Peter Rehberg (aka Pita), British electronic wizard Kaffe Matthews, and drone maestro Rafael Toral. Despite the busy schedules of the members' individual pursuits, this group has somehow worked together for 13 years, and the doubleLP Wigry is their seventh release. Which probably explains why, even though the album consists of four sidelong, presumably uncut pieces, very little here sounds like unfamiliar artists forced to grope and grasp at ways to listen and respond to each other. That's not to say that every second is compelling. But the tones and moods are remarkably consistent, even when the activity lulls or the sounds are unsurprising. Perhaps the church's natural acoustics left an indelible stamp; if so, the musicians take good advantage of that, trusting that their actions will become interactions via the glue of the surroundings. Whatever the cause, all the sounds echo and bounce with an unfailing bluegrey hue, so that when the sparse cricketchirp halfway through side three crests into a wall of hum, you can hear the original sonic raindrops inside the gathering storm. There are some other identifiable crescendos spread around the album's four sides, but what makes Wigry most interesting is also what might frustrate some listeners. Sometimes the group's progress seems oddly arcless, lacking in discernible momentum. Yet even when the album feels static, everything remains drenched in atmosphere and texture, like a storm cloud frozen in the sky. To me, MIMEO are best when they make motion feel like stasis and vice versa, and that paradox takes hold quite often here. But even if that part of the experience seems too abstract, simply getting to wet your head with Wigry's misty ambiance makes it worth a dip. "}