{"label":" New West","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16870/homepage_large.4c6e0a90.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Drive-By Truckers","title":"Ugly Buildings, Whores & Politicians: Greatest Hits 1998-2009","text":" DriveBy Truckers' first career retrospective opens with \"The Living Bubba\", a standout from their 1998 debut, Gangstabilly, that tells the true story of Gregory Dean Smalley, an Atlanta musician who played hundreds of shows while he was dying of AIDS. It's a remarkable song, hardheaded and unsentimental, and singersongwriter Patterson Hood sings his throat ragged to convey Smalley's mortal fear as well as his mortal defiance. \"The Living Bubba\" is more about the musician than the music, so the Truckers play those last notes almost reluctantly, as if only the song were keeping Smalley alive. As an opener, it signals both the high stakes in the band's output as well as the general subject of Ugly Buildings, Whores & Politicians: These are songs about the dedication, determination, integrity, and stubbornness it takes to be in a hardworking, hardtouring band. If the Truckers were at all cynical, or if their songs lectured about their subjects, Ugly Buildings would be unbearable. But any lessons they impart in songs like \"Carl Perkins' Cadillac\" (about label/artist relations) or \"Outfit\" (about fatherly advice) sound more like notes to themselves milemarkers on what Hood might call \"the righteous path\" and allow this collection to cohere into something more than a career retrospective. While the tracklist seems too short at a mere 16 songs, Ugly Buildings still attests to the breadth of the band's music, which ranges in style from gritty rock to Southern soul and ranges in subject from racial politics to recession worries (\"The Righteous Path\" may be the best song ever written about class distinctions). Their catalog is unique in American music, an almost literary endeavor with none of the pretensions such a description might entail. They give voice to the losers, tragic heroes, and everymen beaten down by hard circumstances, allowing each character his or her dignity. Most yukandpluck altcountry bands of the 1990s would have approached a song like \"Bulldozers & Dirt\" from 1999's Pizza Deliverance with a smirking irony, making a joke of its whitetrash subject matter. It's sung, after all, from the perspective of a man clumsily flirting with his ex's teenage daughter. Hood paints him as a real and relatable person, rather than a cornpone lecher, leaving all his contradictions intact. The Truckers approach these people with care and even respect, which is a crucial lesson for any storyteller. Another one: Write what you know. Hood, Mike Cooley, and Jason Isbell the three main songwriters, although Isbell has since gone solo pack these songs with wellobserved details that don't just sell the songs but suggest a larger world where music might save your life or lead you further astray: \"Rock'n'roll means well but it can't help telling young boys lies,\" Cooley sings over the boogie guitar of \"Marry Me\". The Truckers have been trying to untangle all those lies and to tell some truths for 13 years now, which makes closer \"A World of Hurt\" sound better in this context than it ever did on 2006's lackluster A Blessing and a Curse. \"Remember,\" Hood sings, \"it ain't too late to take a deep breath and throw yourself into it with everything you got.\" Such a direct exhortation might sound a bit corny, but the best advice is often the simplest. "}