{"label":" Samples 'n' Seconds","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16876/homepage_large.5dc54307.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Love","artist":"Gotye","title":"Making Mirrors","text":" At his best, Gotye (stage name of Australian musician Walter De Backer) hearkens back to a time when the crop of middlebrow male pop stars wasn't so lousy with simpering troubadours or assemblyline idols. Instead, the ranks were populated by guys like Peter Gabriel, George Michael, and Hall & Oates, who sang forcefully and made bold pop hits with intelligent, grownup themes. Artists who also had broad sonic appetites and arty predilections, guaranteeing their work would sometimes frustrate, but would remain intriguing. On his last solo album, 2006's Like Drawing Blood, Gotye achieved the abstraction and restlessness of good artpop, but failed to bring enough actual pop to the equation. The album was an inspired, dense blend of globespanning sounds, yet it meandered far too frequently. Many of the songs stretched between five and seven minutes long, and found him stitching together multiple sounds and ideas at the detriment of shape or focus, eschewing pop's vital sense of urgency. Fortunately, with his newest release, Making Mirrors, Gotye has figured out how to remain sonically voracious while still giving his listeners a sturdy foothold. He finds room here for psychrock, soul, earnest balladeering, creepy retrofuturism, electronic and Tropicalia touches, and, yes, scads of seriousminded 1980s pop. It's in that last category that most of album's best moments reside. Without ever settling in one spot too slavishly or lengthily to come off like a mere imitator, Gotye deploys his sincere, powerfully expressive voice (underutilized on Like Drawing Blood) in evoking those bombastic 80s pop architects referenced above. \"Somebody That I Used to Know\" and \"Eyes Wide Open\" dramatically convey the acrimony and finality of a shattered relationship, while \"In Your Light\" and \"Save Me\" offer up the redemptive side of the coin. These declamatory studiopop moves don't just represent many of Making Mirrors' highlights; their shared style and tone also really helps hold the album together, compensating for Gotye's scattershot attention span elsewhere. Admittedly, some of these oneoffs are very good – the CeeLo/Jamie Lidellapproved retrosoul of \"I Feel Better\" is the kind of thing that actually works far better as an isolated detour than an organizing principle. The same is true for the guileless \"Giving Me a Chance\" (which somehow manages to favorably evoke Travis) and the \"Drive My Car\"styled acidrock blast \"Easy Way Out\". Only occasionally does Gotye wander too far off the reservation, but by that point he's earned his quirks, and so the bizarrely pitchshifted, suburbiatech nightmare \"State of the Art\" and eerily whispered, Reznorish \"Don't Worry, We'll Be Watching You\" feel more like an endearingly loopy sidebars than selfindulgent, momentumderailing bores. Gotye's exemplary pop sense may be the big revelation of Making Mirrors, yet it's his arty restlessness that will continue to keep him interesting. "}