{"label":" No Pain in Pop / Arbutus","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16878/homepage_large.4b87bd2a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"Grimes","title":"Geidi Primes","text":" In a recent interview with the New York Times Magazine blog (tagged: \"culture;\" previous post: \"The Novelty Knit\"), 23yearold Claire Boucher proudly described the music she makes under the name Grimes as \"postInternet.\" \"The music of my childhood was really diverse because I had access to everything,\" she said, and this omnivorousness is apparent in her eccentric, dreamy sound, which draws upon everything from dubstep to disco, Eastern music to 1990s R&B. Even before that interview, it was clear Grimes knew her way around a web browser. She first attracted an audience outside Montreal's DIY art and music scene when she put her earliest recordings online for free, and since then she's cultivated an online presence that makes equal room for her music and haunting visual art. She's even issued preemptive strikes against critics' misguided games of Spot the Influence (\"I don't listen to Kate Bush, nor have I ever,\" she tweeted a few weeks ago a delightful bit of sacrilege from an artist who's probably never read an article about herself that didn't contain the word \"weirdo\"). Whatever she’s doing, it's working: at the beginning of last year she was uploading to her MySpace the DIY bedroom recordings that would comprise her debut album, and now she and her art school haircut are posing in couture for Times online subscribers. (Just ask Salem shit doesn't get more postInternet than that.) Now that debut album, Geidi Primes, is getting a good old fashioned CD/LP rerelease on the UKbased label No Pain in Pop. (Previously its only physical release was a limitedrun cassette on Montreal’s flourishing experimental pop imprint Arbutus.) Coming on the heels of her terrific material on the tantalizingly brief Darkbloom split EP, the Geidi Primes' rerelease is a wisely timed holdover for the months before her next LP comes out early next year. But Geidi Primes is much more than a quaint indicator of how far Grimes has come in the past year and a half. Despite its modest production values and relative simplicity, it's a cohesive, enchanting, and surprisingly assured debut. Even though it clocks in at a slight 30 minutes, Geidi Primes is a wholly immersive listen. The melodies are hooky and sweet, but each track has a throbbing undercurrent of menace that pulls you in like a riptide. It's hard to pinpoint exactly from where this pervading element of darkness springs especially since, on paper, most of the lyrics read like valentines. (Pretty much every discernable chorus revolves around the word \"heart.\") The hypnotic standout \"Feyd Rautha Dark Heart\" begins with a simple Casiostyle beat and an ostensibly sugary hook \"I won't break your heart in the dark\" but the track builds into something decidedly eerie: chilly synth hits, zombified vocals, and percussion that sounds like rattling bones. By the end, even the sweet refrain sounds less like an expression of devotion and more like a chant meant to put you under some kind of spell. Which, you come to realize, is Geidi Primes' main objective. Perhaps Geidi Primes' greatest virtue is its resourcefulness: It excels at crafting evocative moods from deceivingly simple sonic materials and song structures. Nowhere is this more apparent than on the simple, looping bassline of \"Rosa\", the brightest and most unabashedly straightforward song on the record, and also the one most likely to stay lodged in your head for days. Then there’s the brief, wordless \"Gambang\" making utter gorgeousness from nothing more than a slightly warped sample and breathy falsetto curlicues. As a vocalist, Grimes knows how to work her range. Though she's become known for her impressive falsetto (which she pushes to rapturous, Donna Summerlike heights on the Darkbloom single \"Vanessa\") and she can occasionally pull of a spooky low tone that's faintly reminiscent of Karin Dreijer Andersson, she spends much of Geidi Primes in midrange, tuneful deadpan, which lends wry humor to the lines she coos to a lover on \"Zoal, Face Dancer\": \"Everybody thinks that I'm boring/ Many people think I've got no clue.\" Just because she's spacey yes, nerds, those are Dune references scattered throughout the track listing doesn't mean she's without earthly wit. It takes a pretty good sense of humor to write an utterly gorgeous closer and call it \"Beast Infection\". Given her restlessly prolific creativity (she followed up Geidi Primes with another solid 2010 release, Halfaxa) and the bounding artistic strides she's displayed with her recent singles, Grimes could very well be poised for a meteoric rise with the release of her next full length. But Geidi Primes shows that even her earliest recordings displayed a distinct point of view and an oddly mesmerizing quality. There’s something refreshingly \"postInternet\" about that too a dreamy soundscape that invites an escape from the glitchy universe, a brief provocation to let go and just bliss out. "}