{"label":" Paper Bag","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16877/homepage_large.a58651b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"PS I Love You","title":"Figure It Out","text":" Some may deem it premature for a band whose debut album isn't even a year old to be releasing a Bsides/rarities compilation this early in its career. But it's important to remember that PS I Love You essentially began life as a Bside: tucked away on the back half of a split 7\" with Diamond Rings' \"All Yr Songs\", PS I Love You's heart andfacemelter \"Facelove\" proved to be every bit as affecting and addictive as its more celebrated Aside, and the heretofore unknown Kingston, Ontario, indie rock duo subsequently parlayed that momentum into a wellreceived fulllength album (2010's Meet Me at the Muster Station) and a nonstop international touring itinerary. So the hasty appearance of Figure It Out represents more than just a stopgap measure to maintain visibility in an increasingly crowded playing field; more than most bands, PS I Love You understand how a Bside can pave the way to the Alist, and how thin the line is between a forgotten song and a fondly remembered one. The purpose of Figure It Out is ultimately twofold: Its first side shines a light on the band's preMuster Station origins, while the second brings us up to date on what the band has been up to since the album's release. Though singer/guitarist Paul Saulnier and drummer Benjamin Nelson had previously played together in a Kingston quartet called Magic Jordan, PS I Love You initially began as Saulnier's oneman project, and the five solo demos collected here pulled from a CDR sold at early shows stands in stark contrast to the boisterous noisepop jams heard on Muster. On clicktracked confections like \"Subtle and Majestic\" and \"Actually (I Am a Monster Now)\", Saulnier plays with a delicacy that suggests he's being extra careful not to wake up his neighbors, laying off his distortion pedal and singing in an uncharacteristically soft tremble, while the Neil Youngian acoustic ditty \"Notes and Stuff\" suggests a few dues paid at coffeehouse openmic nights. We also hear skeletal, drummachined versions of two future Muster Station standards, which are ultimately more interesting as historical artifacts than standalone tracks though the instrumental arrangements for \"Facelove\" and \"Scattered\" are more or less mapped out already, you can hear Saulnier stretching the limits of his onemanband setup, and begging for a more bombastic treatment that he just can't achieve on his own. Side two brings us back to familiar, presenttense territory. PS I Love You confidently navigate the spectrum from the ridiculous to the righteous, shifting between the endearingly stoopid Pixies karaoke of \"Starfield\" (which celebrates what is presumably the ultimate scifi geek fantasy of \"fuckfuckfucking on the back of a flying space lion\") and the gleaming, majestic Diamond Rings collaboration \"Leftovers\". In tandem, these songs reinforce what PS I Love You do so well: They handle the silly and serious stuff with equal conviction and drown them both in so much volume and distortion that you're not sure which side they're playing on anymore. Figure It Out's two cover selections may seem unlikely, but they adhere to the same fuzzy logic. On a sandblasted makeover of Madonna's \"Where's the Party\" Saulnier yelps out the chorus with the creepy suggestiveness of someone who's probably been blocked from the Facebook invitation list. And though Rush's sternfaced, suburbanoutcast portrait \"Subdivisions\" fits right into PS I Love You's thematic wheelhouse, their reasonably faithful version actually works best as a comedic exercise in how freakin' hard it is to cover a Rush song Saulnier and Nelson variously leave out certain changes altogether or add in extra bars as if they needed more time to catch their breath. Though Figure It Out's title is taken from \"Starfield\", its sentiment rings most true here: Saulnier and Nelson know they're no Alex Lifeson or Neil Peart, but as their career up to this point has shown, they sure know how to make the most of their limited means. "}