{"label":" Barsuk / Memphis Industries","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16884/homepage_large.9fea7f95.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Cymbals Eat Guitars","title":"Lenses Alien","text":" Cymbals Eat Guitars have followed Why There Are Mountains, their selfreleased debut of 1990s indie rock alchemy, with a difficult and likely divisive sophomore LP. Which isn't all that surprising these things happen when the \"next step\" involves signing to a label, hiring a venerated producer (John Agnello, who also worked this year with altrevivalists Male Bonding), turning over half of your personnel, and releasing an 8 1/2minute song as the \"first single.\" Here's the thing: Lenses Alien doesn't really sound all that different from Why There Are Mountains, which is a tribute to how fully formed and musically tight CEG were right out of the gate. Perhaps the most challenging thing about Lenses Alien is how it makes what it sounds like fairly unimportant: Like last time, almost none of its sonic touchstones exist outside of the Clinton administration, but Joseph D'Agostino takes an enormous leap of faith by doubling down on his brickthick verbiage during a lyricsfirst record that puts more confidence in the listener's attention span than pretty much anything else I've heard this year. It's become something of a cliché to praise an \"album in the mp3 age,\" and while Lenses Alien certainly isn't intended to be stripmined for singles, it's meant to be experienced on a remarkably micro level. It's actually more ambitious than the already grand Mountains, but it doesn't manifest in Byzantine song structure or farflung sonic touches. While there's a peripheral shift from the more bluecollar, populist likes of Built to Spill, Modest Mouse, and the Wrens into the deconstructive and unfairly less celebrated Cap'n Jazz (when it's loud) and the Appleseed Cast (when it's quiet), the craft is evident in how every lyric and riff is exactingly honed to be of near equal importance. The rest of Lenses Alien doesn't take after the sprawl of \"Rifle Eyesight (Proper Name)\" it's about twice as long as anything else but it lays out the record's rules of engagement. I've talked with others who consider its flow to be somewhat clunky, which is understandable considering what listeners typically expect from a song of that length, particularly an opener. There's not an epic build or a cataclysmic blowout: D'Agostino occupies the mind of an unstable, possibly predatory narrator, changing perspective and mood from verse to verse, the extended floods of physically punishing guitar feedback acting as outbursts of mental anguish linking unorthodox yet accessible and sprightly vocal lines. I'll call it anticlimactic as a compliment: Over an ugly, gnarled cluster of notes, D'Agostino asks, \"What former police sits at the bus stop offering rides?” and the song ends abruptly like a stunning reveal. After eight minutes of psychodrama played out in his head, the camera pans out for you to imagine the yellowed teeth or cold, vacant stare of its main character. So many of Lenses Alien's enduring moments come from these mergers of sensation the chorus of \"ohwhoas\" from tired passengers on the cunningly catchy \"Shore Points\" underlining an abrupt change of plans along the Jersey coastline; a picture of motorboats and Styrofoam coolers amidst the burst of crowdpleasing guitars during \"Keep Me Waiting\". Then there's the liquid, unsteady nearinstrumental of \"The Current\" stopping to make a brief and lucid prayer for a universe free of physical suffering, while \"Gary Condit\" offers the record's final grasp at understanding: \"Is it teethshaking polyphony, grace, and completion or nothing?\" delivered as an unholy, desperate cry for help. The need for release runs throughout Lenses Alien, as it condenses the spacious travelogues of Mountains  into claustrophobic ruminations on the metaphysical, moving cars, and D'Agostino's mind existing as purgatories. \"Plainclothes\" opens suggesting a True Crime story, but it's a passing thought during a paranoid drive up a New York highway interspersed with startling, vivid details the tricks cops pull on unsuspecting drivers during initiation season, the sensation of being haunted by ghosts of past partiers in a guest house. This unsettling otherworldliness continues through \"Definite Darkness\", a mysterious police investigation causing a sleepless night that fades out on a coda of wearied sighs. Considering all the paranoia and fleeting revelations, drugs unsurprisingly play a big role here, particularly psychedelics whose side effects are less about hedonism than discovery. D'Agostino and friends have relatable freak outs and puke in sand dunes, pass out with their shoes on, roll down hills on skateboards, and remark upon how \"dried mushrooms taste a lot like communion wafers.\" They’re disarmingly naïve about worlds opening up to them, seeing gas leaks, air force bases, and the suburban and rural expanses of the northeast United States as reflections of celestial significance. The downside is how the music occasionally buckles under the weight of its own restlessness and D'Agostino’s words a slightly skewed ratio of visceral immediacy to cerebral satisfaction making it a slight notch below Why There Are Mountains. While packed with forceful riffs and quirky melodic turns, \"Another Tunguska\" and \"Secret Family\" are such slippery compositions that D'Agostino's backing can sometimes feel incidental. But once you stop looking for the hooks and choruses as they might be defined traditionally, dozens of inventive melodies emerge: Is the elegant, Elliott Smithesque melody of \"Shore Points\" less sticky because there’s no chorus? Do the soulfully swooping harmonies of \"Wavelengths\" constitute a chorus even though the lyrics don’t repeat? I suppose it's indicative of Lenses Alien's strange magnetism that it raises as many questions when it's catchy as it does when it's inscrutable. After all, it's so thick with overlapping images, memories, stray thoughts, and second guessing that I sense D'Agostino's asking us throughout: How real are our own emotions? Are you guessing at your own feelings? It's heavy stuff, never answered in an easy way, and can really feel out of step with their peers who treat lyrics as placeholders and thoughts as fact. More than the sound of the 90s, Lenses Alien recalls, at least to these ears, the way we might’ve interacted with those records at the time: poring over the lyrics sheet, having a real sense of investment. It's no slight to say Lenses Alien  isn't at the level of Perfect From Now On or The Moon and Antarctica  it's not a masterpiece. But while Why There Are Mountains  reminded me of what those records sounded  like, Lenses Alien  does something more difficult by reminding what it felt like once they were over and you were left to wonder if you just stumbled upon a cosmic, philosophical treatise disguised as an indie rock record. "}