{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16894/homepage_large.fda5901a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Tinariwen","title":"Tassili","text":" In southeastern Algeria, there is a vast plateau set aside as a national park called Tassili N'Ajjer. It's close to the border with Libya, and years ago, in the 1980s and early 90s, it was a place of relatively safe passage for Kel Tamashek fighters moving between the refugee camps in Libya and the battlefront in northern Mali. To look at it in satellite images, you might think you were looking at he surface of some distant moon, long ago scarred by geologic activity but now barren and strangely beautiful. It wasn't always this way. Thousands of ancient cave and rock paintings dating from 8,000 to around 1,700 years ago depict a place of plenty that slowly dried to become the modern desert. There are lost religions and civilizations out there. The Tassili N'Ajjer covers some 45,000 square miles. Near the southern rim of the plateau is a town called Djanet, and it's out in the rocky desert near this town that Tinariwen chose to record its fifth album. The group would have preferred to record near its homebase, Tessalit, in northern Mali, but the security situation was too precarious. The reflaring of a conflict the group hoped was put to bed clouds some of the album they made the first couplet on the album, sung in weary Tamashek by Ibrahim Ag Alhabib, translates to, \"What have you got to say, my friends, about this painful time we're living through?\" It's not only about the new conflict, though. From there, the song calls out to people who have given up the nomadic life of the desert, lamenting that they've left but seeming to understand why they have. These complex emotions run through the album, and the predominant feeling that comes out of them is longing, for home, for peace, for old friends, for a way of life whose place in the modern world is uncertain. Tinariwen have mostly put aside their electric guitars for this album and returned to the acoustics they first played together, backing the rhythmic playing with small hand drums and clapping. They've invited in a few friends as well. Nels Cline contributes a beautiful wash of ambient guitar to opener \"Imidiwan ma Tennam\", two members of the Dirty Dozen Brass Band add rough, sonorous texture to \"Ya Messinagh\", and TV on the Radio's Kyp Malone and Tunde Adebimpe, who traveled out to the desert recording site, are on hand on five songs, adding subtle backing harmonies and even a bit of lead vocal on one song. The invitation of outsiders into the songs is in one sense a measure of the confidence the band has in the integrity and singularity of its sound, and also a reflection of where they've been recently. Tinariwen has toured the world and will be in North America again this fall. Some of the longing for the desert in these songs undoubtedly stems from the band's travel schedule, and when Alhabib asks others why they left, he may in part be doing it to remind himself that it's worth the challenge of staying. Meanwhile, Tassili is a very different album from any Tinariwen have recorded before, and they're proving to be a band of considerable range as they build a catalog of varied and excellent albums. Only time will tell where they're able to record the next one, but their retreat to the Tassili seems to have left them creatively refreshed. "}