{"label":" Digitalis","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16903/homepage_large.6fb2f9cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Motion Sickness of Time Travel","title":"Luminaries & Synastry","text":" Tucked into some remote woods in Georgia, Rachel and Grant Evans have created a kind of momandpop drone factory. Between their duo Quiet Evenings, Grant's Nova Scotian Arms, and Rachel's Motion Sickness of Time Travel, they've spun reams of drone, mostly on smallrun cassettes and CDRs. Of the three projects, MSOTT leans most toward songlike structures. Though her work is often meditative and abstract, filled with busy synths and widescreen reverb, Evans has a knack for shaping subtle rhythms, slow crescendos, and the wordless phrasings of her own voice. That voice is more prominent than ever before on Luminaries & Synastry, the best MSOTT effort to date. It's not quite right to say Evans' singing is the center of these songs each piece is too unified to let any element dominate. But there's something uncanny about the way her voice melts with her drifting tones, as if it's both responding to the music and spawning it. (That effect is mirrored in the fluid visual montages Evans made for \"Day Glow\" and \"Late Day Sun Silhouettes\"). Such circular motion produces the feel of a sonic Möbius strip, with each song looping in on itself until time seems to stand still. This illusion of timelessness might suggest that the name Motion Sickness of Time Travel (taken from William Burroughs' novel The Soft Machine) is inappropriate, but in fact it's quite apt. Though her soothing atmospheres are never exactly queasy, Evans' way of making time elastic unpredictably stretching and shrinking it produces a kind of mesmerizing disorientation. Often it feels like she's reenacting the fuzzy, timedefying boundary between consciousness and sleep: Drift into her music, and you might feel like you’re drowsily blinking to make out figures in the dark, or waking from a naplong dream that seemed to last a day. Which might be why, despite being relatively short for drone pieces, the songs on Luminaries & Synastry feel as long and developed as those of any previous MSOTT work. So a track like \"Ascendant\", with its misty tones that cast even dewier shadows, can come as close to infinity in six minutes as, say, Spacemen 3's epic \"An Evening of Contemporary Sitar Music\" can in 45. It might seem like a stretch to place MSOTT in such lofty company so soon, but Luminaries & Synastry sounds ready and willing to stand the test of timelessness Evans made for it. "}