{"label":" Acéphale","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16908/homepage_large.f4469c9e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Elite Gymnastics","title":"Ruin","text":" The story of music is largely a story about machines. Just as developments in recording and broadcasting technologies drove 20thcentury pop, the Internet and accessible music software are driving something new in the 21st century. Its contours are getting clearer as the first generation to grow up with it comes of age. These musicians are sweeping away the vestiges of generic lineage and regional identity. Unselfconsciously mingling the prefab, the pilfered, and the original, they have none of their elders' qualms about samples and virtual instruments. Many live outside of major culture centers, and thrive online rather than onstage, working with sophisticated editing tools in relative isolation to construct their idiosyncratic visions. The production duo Elite Gymnastics is a perfect example of this diaspora of younger musicians. James Brooks and Josh Clancy live in Minneapolis, but this tells us little about them the Internet is their habitat, not a conduit. Their music is proudly unaffiliated, cobbling together influences that will probably strike older listeners as disparate and younger ones as perfectly concordant. The band's name comes from a song by power electronics pioneers Whitehouse, and noise terrorism is latent in their churning tone and freighted lyrics (which are barely audible but have an evil vibe). The drum breaks come from jungle and hiphop, the radiantly smeared textures from shoegaze and dronerock, the samples from video games. They're comfortable mixing Waka Flocka Flame or Ryuichi Sakamoto, chopping Final Fantasy theme music into Balearic house or tending to ghostly, blackened whirrs. According to the band, they used chillwave to Trojan Horse these diverse sounds into complacent earbuds. Whether or not you buy that line, the only chillwave thing about RUIN 1 is how miscellaneous listening habits dissolve in a solution of overstimulated memory and prodigious sonic options. There's nothing slackened or balmy about it, no pink Christmas lights or plastic palm trees. It's a rugged, mercurial terrain with heatwaves blasting off it. Jungle drums slice through dark, grainy atmospheres flashing with techno synths (\"So Close to Paradise\"), and the only thing separating throbbing Spacemen 3style rock (\"Little Things\") and gentle vintage shoegaze (\"Omamori\") is the fizzy electro of \"Here, in Heaven\". The throughline is a pitched, exciting contest between aggressive percussion and emotive melody. The drums are often taut and frantic, but great floating swaths of texture provide a nebulous weight. Besides the frequently inconsequential vocals, the only downside is some murky mixing, with lots of uncompressed clutter. Blurry but lucid is a very tricky sound to nail, and Elite Gymnastics are getting good mileage out of raw energy while they work it out. That's why RUIN 2 which basically borrows the idea of chopped and screwed remix discs from rap is more than a supplement. It actually improves some of the original mixes by clearing out the dense thatching, letting them breathe. The original version of \"Here, in Heaven\" sounds flat compared to the second, a yawning chasm that evokes the ambient dub of Brock Van Wey. \"Little Things\" also gains distinction with its vocal hung between huge, skeletal pulses and silvery curls of ambiance. But this isn't to say that Elite Gymnastics should only make coredout dub: \"Minneapolis Belongs to You\" lets some light and air into RUIN 1 with refreshing results. And do you also detect a tacit \"(But Not to Me)\" after that title? If folk music's domain was regional and pop's was global, this music lives beyond the world, where ideas floating through waves and wires take on an independent, hermetic life. "}