{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16907/homepage_large.7a11f60b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"Throwing Muses","title":"Anthology","text":" In 1983, at age 16, Kristin Hersh was hit by a car. She landed on her head and lost a lot of blood. When she was recovering in the hospital she started, for the first time, to hear songs \"sonic hauntings,\" as she called them in her 2010 memoir, Rat Girl. Initially humming, mechanical tones, they quickly organized themselves into the familiar grammar of guitar chords, drum beats, basslines, and surreal melodies. She didn't feel quite right until she got them out of her head: \"As soon as I give a song a body in the real world, it stops playing and I breathe a sigh of relief, in precious silence.\" She played the chords herself and taught the other parts to her friends Dave Narcizo and Leslie Langston and her stepsister Tanya Donelly, and they became the earliest material recorded by their band, Throwing Muses. It's a hell of a creation myth, but an easy one to believe: pretty much every song Throwing Muses ever recorded sounds like an exorcism. Though indebted to punk's passion, fury, and occasional goofiness, the Muses were punks only in the spiritual sense of the word: Even by their teens, the original four were all accomplished musicians wellversed enough in music theory to create the weird, irregular chords and erratic time signatures that would become hallmarks of their sound. There was something almost Zenlike about the band's approach: Dump the contents of your busy brain out onto the street, and see what sounds they make on impact. The offspring of hippie idealism (Hersh grew up living on a commune and calling her dad \"Dude\") and postpunk disillusionment, the Muses' rhetoric was not about breaking the rules so much as transcending them completely. In a recent interview, Hersh said of her earliest days in the band, \"I realized that in order to play with the voice you would have if you grew up on a desert island without a radio you need to forget rules.\" Anthology, the first retrospective collection of Throwing Muses material, comes to us on the 25th anniversary of their (first) selftitled record, a stammering, brutal masterpiece that managed to capture both late adolescent angst and feelings well beyond its years. Producer Gil Norton made Hersh's most intimate moments of neardelirium sound epic: like portions of someone's diary blown up to billboard size. Ever wary of commercial appeal, the band said it didn’t want to make anthems, so before its next record its label 4AD passed Norton onto the opening act on the Muses' European tour, fellow Bostonian scenesters Pixies, who were looking for someone to record their next album, Doolittle. Though the histories of the two bands are deeply, famously entwined, the Muses have enjoyed a fate harder to identify than the burden of being hugely influential (even though they were in certain corners: It's almost impossible to imagine the visceral bleats of singers like Corin Tucker or Marissa Paternoster without Kristin Hersh). This moment of reunions, reissues, and boundless nostalgia seems a good time to ask: where did Throwing Muses fit in? Anthology doesn't quite answer this question. Neither an exhaustive box set nor a greatesthits collection, Anthology is more like mixtape personally compiled by the band, making a very characteristically Muses argument for the personal over the canonical, for a song’s appeal as something that's more subjective than objective. Though it eschews chronology and omits some of their most popular tracks (there’s only one song on here from 1991’s The Real Ramona and it’s the deep cut \"Two Step\"), Anthology is still an accessible entry point to the band’s formidably deep catalogue for the already initiated, it’s a relatively taut refresher. The first disc is 21 tracks culled from major Muses releases, skewing heaviest on their late80s output over half of the material comes from a threeyear run that spanned the exquisitely dank Chains Changed EP to the somewhat brighter Hunkpapa in 1989. There are classics (\"Fish\", \"Hate My Way\", \"Marriage Tree\", \"Bright Yellow Gun\") and a few surprises (\"Mr. Bones\", \"Two Step\", \"Pretty or Not\"), but there’s a remarkable cohesion to the collection’s flow. When the band released its 2003 selftitled album after a long absence, even its biggest fans were kind of astonished at how well the group had been able to capture the sound and spirit of its earliest recordings. Two songs from that \"reunion\" album made the cut here: I'd bet anything that Anthology listeners coming to the band for the first time wouldn't be able to pick them out of the bunch without peeking at the liner notes. Naturally, the Bsides and rarities disc is spottier I could live comfortably in a world without the tepid version of \"Amazing Grace\" or the instrumental \"Manic Depression\", which could pass for the interstitial music on an old Ken Griffey baseball video game. But once you get to the material from the Firepile EPs, it offers a killer middle stretch: \"Snailhead\" (featuring one of the most blistering Hersh vocals on the whole collection) segues into the smoldering slowburner \"City of the Dead\". I’ve actually found myself spinning Disc 2 more than Disc 1, probably just because most of the material is fresher to my ears. It's not the most essential entry in their discography, but it's solid. To some people, the word Anthology might promise something bigger or more definitive than what the Muses have given us here, but most fans will appreciate the personal flourishes all over this collection (especially Hersh's always poetic liner notes). Anthology isn't exactly a totemic bookend to Throwing Muses' long and lively career, but as the band’s 2003 record and upcoming reunion tour suggest, maybe there’s still too much life in them for a definitive ending. "}