{"label":" ECM","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16924/homepage_large.d5d5c774.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Ricardo Villalobos and Max Loderbauer","title":"Re: ECM","text":" Ricardo Villalobos is the undisputed winner of the last decade's minimal techno movement. He released two of the period's finest long players (Alcachofa and the still underrated Thè au Harem d'Archiméde) but also established himself as an indemand festivalpacking DJ. Unlike his incredible run between 2004 and 2006 (when Ricardomania was so obvious that Philip Sherburne made note of it, midreview), his releases these days are thin on the ground, limited to a single here, a remix there. His work has grown more historical as it's grown scarcer. It's not his own history he's concerned with, but the varying strands of musical DNA comprising his ropey, winking techno. \"Enfants (Chants)\" featured communal chanting, while this year's excellent Joli Chat EP was conversational and punchdrunk. His last \"album\" was a premixed LP of his own productions. He's collaborating more. It's as if, having found his perfect beat, he's seeking its perfect context. Re: ECM sees Villalobos reach out to longtime experimentalist Max Loderbauer (who has a host of credits to his name; recently and notably he has played in the Moritz Von Oswald Trio). At issue is the varied output of fabled Munich jazz/out music label ECM (Edition of Contemporary Music). The two artists were given full access to ECM's vast catalog, and label founder Manfred Eicher oversaw the mastering process. The \"Re:\" (\"regarding\") in the work's title is important: These are not remixes but rather compositions that suggest and converse with ECM's history. Villalobos and Loderbauer make no attempt to tie the works to beatdriven techno. The catalog is a quarry of sounds from which the duo extract loops and beats that range from ornament to animal. It's not necessary to be intimately familiar with ECM's catalog to enjoy Re: ECM (your reviewer is not); suffice to say that the label has housed most permutations of jazz and improvisational music since its inception in the late 1960s. Jazz and electronic music make natural partners; it's a pairing that many have explored previously, from Moodymann's dusty Black Mahogani releases to Four Tet's work with drummer Steve Reid. Both styles fascinate themselves with sustained textures and place a premium on sublimating the artist to the form (both also lack rock music's obscene physicality, which has allowed jazz musicians and electronic producers to stay creative late into their careers). Villalobos and Loderbauer don't seem interested in jazz's harmonic infrastructure so much as the vast array of tones used to produce it. Hissing hihats, voluminous standup bass, and damp woodwinds are placed decoratively next to one another. If I'm feeling cynical I start to think of Re: ECM as aural feng shui, its 2xCD, twohour structure better suited for inattentive moodsetting than true exploration. But there's nothing easy or simple here; the artists' restraint provides plenty of airy space, but between that air are sounds that are almost uniformly rich and complex. It feels minimal but unbalanced. If Re: ECM were to soundtrack a dinner party, it would have to be of the newfangled, slightly sadistic variety in which the chefs have lots of tattoos and serve mostly foie gras and bone marrow. Re: ECM stands out not just for its depth but for its variety, for the sheer number of musics it incorporates. Jazz is the primary focus it has been for the label but the duo also touches on tribal blues (\"Reannounce\"), choral (\"Rekondakion\"), Eastern drone (\"Requote\"), and lounge (\"Recat\"). If Villalobos has ported over one element from his techno work, it's an uncanny ability to fashion rhythms that are both crisp and deep; the sounds here will buzz and twitch with his unmistakable style, but they'll do so less predictably. Applaud ECM for letting Villalobos and Loderbauer run amok; this album is a symptom of a process that has allowed ECM to remain relevant since its inception. For Villalobos, it's another tie, however oblique, to the musics that birthed his style. As a new generation of electronic producers notably Nicolas Jaar takes cues from his seminal works, Villalobos continues to reach backward. If he makes the past seem half as thrilling and rewarding as he once made the future seem, the next generation won't be the only one that owes him a debt. "}