{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16930/homepage_large.2dd942ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Wild Flag","title":"Wild Flag","text":" On SleaterKinney's 2005 single \"Entertain\", Carrie Brownstein summed up her dissatisfaction with popcultural stagnation and newwave nostalgia by asking, \"Where's the black and blue?\" She repeats the question three times in succession, each one increasingly maniacal, as if to illustrate her own point: Art can evolve only when it pushes forward, provokes, and leaves bruises. Alas, in the five years since SleaterKinney fell silent, nostalgia has become such a pervasive condition in pop culture that entire books are now devoted to analyzing the phenomenon. But Brownstein has not relented in demanding her blackandblue, whether using her NPR Monitor Mix blog to lament the preponderance of sensitive, softrockin' beardos in contemporary indie, or skewering hipster fauxhemia alongside SNL's Fred Armisen on the IFC comedy show Portlandia. So for a vocal cultural critic and shithot guitar player like Brownstein, the act of forming a new band isn't a simple matter of course; it's a declaration of war. But rather than point fingers from the sidelines, with Wild Flag she's leading by example. The name Wild Flag amounts to more than just a distant echo of similarly imposing Black and Pink varieties; it represents something to rally around, at a time when the internet has broken down traditional musical allegiances in favor of allyoucaneat consumption. As per its members' pedigrees (Brownstein is joined by fellow SK veteran Janet Weiss on drums, exHelium frontwoman Mary Timony on second guitar, and Rebecca Cole of Elephant Six affiliates the Minders on organ), Wild Flag variously invoke firstwave punk, posthardcore indie rock, 1960s girlgroup pop, Nuggetsvintage garage, Stonesy FMradio raunch, and even flashes of proggy psychedelia. But Wild Flag aren't so much trying to relive a particular era or movement as restoke the kind of passion, commitment, and fandom in listeners that allowed those movements to coalesce and flourish in the first place. Brownstein and Timony previously collaborated in late1990s side project the Spells, but where their voices tended to blend together within that band's lotech indierock sound, here their personalities are much more pronounced and distinct. For much of SleaterKinney's existence, Brownstein played the more mildmannered foil to lead shrieker Corin Tucker, before asserting herself more forcefully on 2002's One Beat and 2005's The Woods; on Wild Flag, she essentially picks up right where she left off on \"Entertain\", pushing her voice toward more brash, flamboyant extremes. Timony, meanwhile, sounds as if she's still immersed in the fantastical reveries of Helium's 1997 swan song The Magic City, her familiarly conversational tone having an infectiously calming effect on the band. But in their own peculiar ways, both singers strive to express their irrepressible awe for the power of music and the effect it has on them nearly every song here hinges on the connection between sound and movement, and the relationship between what happens between the ears and below the belt. Brownstein's \"Romance\" and \"Boom\" are impassioned testaments to rock'n'roll's sensuous allure, translating inner desire into public manifesto; Timony sings of music's essence in more mythic terms, equating it to a magical artifact (the psychedelic set piece \"Glass Tambourine\") or cult ritual (\"Electric Band\", as in: \"Come on, join our…\") as if she were the friendly fairy godmother on some subversively trippy Saturdaymorning kids' TV show. The considerable contrast between the two singers gives Wild Flag a somewhat predictable ebb and flow, with a songbysong tradeoff between Brownstein's rambunctious, locomotive rockers and Timony's more quirky, complex compositions. Credit Weiss and Cole for effectively mediating between these disparate sensibilities: Wild Flag never sound more together than when they're being led off the rails by Weiss' Keith Moonworthy breakdowns and Cole's wandering \"Sister Ray\"style organ lines, as they push the wiry \"Short Version\" and charmingly cheeky \"Racehorse\" into joyous fullband jams and singalong chants. For all the ideological intent fuelling the Wild Flag mission, the band rarely sacrifices the rock'n'roll fun they no doubt deliver that elusive blackandblue, but it's a hit that feels like a kiss. "}