{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16916/homepage_large.93b57f32.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"CSS","title":"La Liberación","text":" The 2006 arrival of Sao Paulo novowave sextet CSS couldn't have been better timed, coming as it did in the wake of a pervasive postpunk revival in indierock, a burgeoning Diploled interest in gritty Brazilian dance music, and a broadbandenabled globalized mode of music consumption that allowed record labels to perform international A&R scouting from their desktops. And CSS were more than happy to seize the moment, making music with no regard for tomorrow, filling their hipsterembraced debut album Cansei de Ser Sexy with trashy tributes to indierock favorites of the day and 15minute celebrities du jour. However, after their 2008 downer of a sophomore album, Donkey, failed to generate the same amount of dancefloor traction and following a subsequent split from their North American boosters at Sub Pop CSS know it's going to take a lot more than a Death From Above 1979 reunion tour to make them relevant again. And so on La Liberación, they attempt something of a maturation process. If, as Pitchfork's Eric Harvey said in his review of Donkey, CSS' discopunk found its life source in Blondie's \"Atomic\", then La Liberación finds them uncoiling that tightly wound sound to absorb \"The Tide Is High\" island vibes and \"Rapture\"style innercity funk. Musically speaking, CSS can evolve only as much as lightningrod frontwoman Lovefoxxx allows, and on La Liberación, she's only game to break from her pottymouthed partygirl persona about half the time. That Lovefoxxx is aware of her own vacuity doesn't make it easier to take the remedial, callandresponse chorus of \"I Love You\" (all together now: \"I love you/ I love you, too\") may very well be a comment on the transactional nature of relationships, but, in the absence of a proper hook, it feels more like lazy songwriting. And the wouldbe empowerment anthem \"City Grrrl\" an unapologetic celebration of revealing outfits and onenight stands feels like a forced attempt to fly the freak flag for club kids sick of dancing to \"Born This Way\". And yet as much as these songs play right into wellworn CSS themes of vanity and selfgratification, on La Liberación, the band sounds genuinely torn between pandering to the sort of hoppedup hedonists who want to rip off Lovefoxxx’s clothes when she does a stage dive, and a desire to dial down the crassness and redefine their character. Their experiments don't always yield useful results the downcast, acousticguitarpowered \"Partners in Crime\" comes awkwardly decorated with freeform piano rolls that trip up rather than propel the song's momentum. But there are moments when CSS find a way to successfully evolve without alienating their base, particularly on the playful, Afrofunkinflected pop of \"Echo of Love\" and the \"Paper Planes\"fashioned, tropical slowburner \"Hits Me Like a Rock\", a winning duet with Bobby Gillespie (returning the favor after Lovefoxxx's guest appearance on Primal Scream's 2008 release Beautiful Future). In light of these developments, the saxsquawked nihilism of the closing \"Fuck Everything\" feels all the more empty: There's enough evidence on La Liberación to suggest CSS actually do care about being a band you'll still respect in the morning. "}