{"label":" Radio Killa","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16915/homepage_large.e3a083d9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Terius Nash","title":"1977","text":" 1977 is to quote Terius Nash himself an \"Internet album.\" Nash (aka TheDream) released it for free on his website on August 31, with the begrudged blessing of his bosses at Def Jam. It's his fourth solo album, but his first released in this manner, and it raises the question of whether or not we are supposed to alter our expectations. Is this a tossedoff repackaging of demos? Is he merely trying to satiate a fanbase waiting for an album that he promised to drop this past June? We don't know the answers to those questions (although my guesses would be \"no\" and \"maybe\"), but it would seem foolish to hold 1977 to a lower standard. It's no longer unusual especially in the world of rap, and to a lesser extent R&B to put a full album on the Internet for free. If Nash had included a way for fans to pay what they wanted for the album, he would've been adopting a strategy utilized in previous years by Radiohead and Girl Talk. And yet, Nash is asking us to adjust our expectations. Crucially though, he's not asking that we alter our notions of what we expect of him, just what we expect from him. 1977 represents not a conscious change in quality, but a conscious change in style and sound, at least for the time being. A few days before he released the album, he tweeted, \"When I'm 40 ill write Myself a Pop Smash just so I can Perform on National TV. Not that hard to do. But that's not who I am right now.\" True to his word, 1977 often strays far from Nash's few solo pop smashes. Instead, it is a deeply personal and presumably therapeutic album. It's one that he fought with his label to release, that he's putting out under his birth name and titled for his birth year, and for which he has put the lyrics of every song up on his website. Though he was predictably coy about the subject, the specter of his divorce from singer Christina Milian looms over it. In its sparseness and unrelenting directness, the album's most recent precedent is Kanye West's break up opus 808s & Heartbreak, and much like that record, it's already proven to be a divisive if misunderstood album. It showcases a bitter and angry Nash, and though he has previously dabbled in acidic and unflinching breakup songs, 1977 is his first album to largely focus on something other than his sexual prowess. Like West, his vitriol is mostly spewed outward, with seemingly little regard for the feelings or reputation of whoever is on the other side. There is Spanish guitar, as if Nash imagines himself readying for a duel. There is acoustic guitar, as if to accentuate his confessionals. And there is guitar feedback, as if his heart were screaming out. As a portrayal of a broken relationship, 1977 at its best is as vivid as it is onesided. \"Wake Me When It's Over\", which effectively utilizes the glacial R&B of Drake and his producer Noah \"40\" Shebib, opens the album with a wrenching portrait of a romance falling apart in plain view of friends and the public. As Nash coos the chorus we find him frozen in amber, unable to shake a break up for which he claims he would've taken bullets. Even tracks like \"Rolex\" and \"Wish You Were Mine\", which don't hew as close to the theme as others, have a spitefulness that hint at an intense desire to throw your recovery in your ex's face. But of course, writing songs from this point of view presents some problems. Mainly, one has to be able to stomach the onesided bile and Nash's likely halftruths. To that end, 1977, like West's 808s, functions best as a look inside the mind of a man wrecked by a trying relationship and a worse break up. His failings should not be excused, but the feelings exist, and have likely existed inside most of us at some point (regardless of gender), and to that end, they're understandable even if they're not completely acceptable. There are also essential moments on the album where Nash perhaps unwittingly reveals the more aggressively resentful songs to be a sort of Pyrrhic victory. One is on \"Form of Flattery\", where he addresses the ex he hates and seethes, \"I'm not better than that.\" Another is \"Wedding Crasher\", the absolute standout here, wherein Nash shows up at his ex's wedding and admits, once and for all, that his attempts to replace her have been futile. Sonically, it recalls the buoyant lightness of Love King's \"Florida University\", though it's less cloying, and this time he's basically saying, \"fuck you\" back at himself. All that said, Nash still misses a huge opportunity. One of the legitimate criticisms of 808s was that West's ex had no forum to respond to the album. While it's obviously impossible to expect Nash to cede space on 1977 to Milian (or whomever), there is a critical difference between himself and West. Nash is a songwriter by trade who made his name writing from the perspective of people (mostly women) other than himself, including what may be the biggest female empowerment single of the past decade. When Nash does give the floor completely to a female voice, it's for the relatively unknown Casha to sing a cover of Deniece Williams' 1981 hit \"Silly\". As a tune, the song itself is fine, but framed by Nash's wrath it sadly comes off as pleading and passive. How great would it have been for Nash to use that spot on the album to turn the pen on himself, if only for one song? Still, 1977 itself is a success, even if it doesn't stand up completely to his three previous releases. As a standalone depiction of a deteriorating relationship and miserable break up, it's engrossing and, even to a fault, extremely honest. As a piece of music, it eschews the richness and lushness of those albums, a sound that's felt on the verge of becoming stale. 1977 could be called a palate cleanser, but it's way too tornup to be that. It's more like a shot (or three) of whisky. Sometimes that feels like exactly what you need. "}