{"label":" Nettwerk","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16926/homepage_large.74cd525c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Ladytron","title":"Gravity the Seducer","text":" Seduction can be an evil art, and Ladytron are certainly capable of resisting it. The Liverpool mainstay's fifth album is titled Gravity the Seducer, but Newton's discovery clearly struggles to seal the deal throughout. During their dozenyear career, the band's refused to outright repeat themselves 2002's Light & Magic was a glossier, more robust update on the toystore analog work of the previous year's debut, 604, while 2008's underrated, overstuffed Velocifero added a menacing stare and attimes mismatched experimentation to the voidcreating shoegaze synths of 2005's gamechanging The Witching Hour. For Gravity the Seducer, they've taken off the cinder block that Velocifero applied to the gas pedal, opting for a floatier, airy feel that often sounds as if its creators' feet are barely touching the ground. Hired gun Alessandro Cortini (Nine Inch Nails) returns to lend an extra hand, but his touch is less heavily felt than on Velocifero, where, more often than not, throttling industrial rhythms prevailed. Change is good, right? Well, here's the rub: Ladytron aren't quite content to let go of the sinceperfected Witching Hour sound that won them attention beyond the Cobrasnake crowd, so the pushandpull between their newlook sound and the blankeyed electrogaze of the past creates an unfortunate tension. \"Ace of Hz\" and \"Mirage\" are boilerplate, lateaughts Ladytron, right down to the charging synth melodies and vague politicalnaturalistic lyricism, and the former's shouldersshrugged ordinariness is driven home when its melody is redone on the instrumental LP closer \"Aces High\". Earlier on the album, another sortainstrumental rears its head in the form of \"Ritual\", a limp fauxrocker that, if nothing else, makes for an easy \"Roxy Elevator Music\" joke. Unsurprisingly, the weightless pomp of Gravity the Seducer's fresher material is more impressive. Opener \"White Elephant\" is a sneakygood song with a swaying melody that belongs in the Great Ladytron Songs canon, while the drum machinekissed ballad \"Ambulances\" bucks the band's trend for blushworthy, Tolkienesque lyricism in favor of a worrying plea in the name of lost love. Still, even when Ladytron attempt to fully escape the past, it haunts them: the melodic structure of album highlight \"90 Degrees\", in all its glistening beauty, can't help but recall Witching Hour closer \"All the Way...\", a song that's of the band's most directly affecting works to date and certainly more substantial than the majority of what's here. So Gravity the Seducer is a transitional album bearing the growing pains and separation anxiety that we usually associate with bands that are in between periods of true inspiration. It's not a bad record, but it is an upsettingly uneven one, especially considering the flashes of greatness that Ladytron are still capable of. I'm tempted to give them the benefit of the doubt, though, based on their longevity alone. In his review of last year's greatest hits collection, Best of 0010, exPitchfork editor Scott Plagenhoef made an excellent case for why Ladytron demand more than a light dismissal and, let's face it, considering the flashinthepan electroclash \"movement\" that first gave them recognition, it's a pleasant shock that they've stuck around this long and still manage to evolve. \"Points for showing up\" usually carries negative connotations, so how about we give Ladytron \"points for surviving.\" After all, simply sticking around without growing totally stale is a feat that's not easily pulled off these days. "}