{"label":" Sargent House","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16932/homepage_large.3d1f78fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Hella","title":"Tripper","text":" No matter how much Hella have juggled their lineup, the music has always sounded the same. The Sacramentobred spazzrock duo's done the OutKast splitsolo album thing (Church Gone Wild/Chirpin' Hard), given its songs the coffeeshop openmike treatment (Acoustics), and revamped itself into a fivepiece supergroup (There's No 666 In Outer Space). Yet through all of these rearrangements and reinventions, the band has rarely deviated from its staple schtick: shreddy guitars, frenetic drumming, and hooks scavenged from the Power Glove era of Nintendo gaming. Sometimes it was hard to tell if they were dedicated to a singular vision or stuck within one. Following a fouryear hiatus, Tripper finds Hella back to their original twopiece incarnation, with founding members Spencer Seim and Zach Hill on guitar and drums. It's business as usual: spastic pounding, warpspeed scalar runs, and various mathrock feats of strength. Tripper  is a more focused effort, but only in comparison to the wanton schizophrenia of other Hella records. On \"Long Hair\" Seim gets more melody out of fewer notes, sticking to single riffs for longer stretches of time. On \"Yubacore\" Hill plays with dynamics, interrupting his constant stream of abstract fills with a few simple, spacious grooves. Hella are never relaxed, but they no longer sound like they're sprinting to get to the end of the record. For all of the sweaty battering and calculated sloppiness, Hella's music always retained an inorganic feel. They make high volume but emotionally distant music. The band's main muse, in spirit if not in sound, is Devo. That hasn't changed on Tripper. Hella's peers artschool shredders like Mick Barr (Orthrelm, Krallice) and Lightning Bolt found their inspiration in hardcore punk and more extreme strains of metal. Though their playing is repetitive and mechanical, it's framed as a quasispiritual pursuit and, in Lighting Bolt's case, done in the hopes of producing a sweaty moshpit meltdown. Hella's intent is more arch. The song titles \"Kid Life Crisis\", \"Psycho Bro\" are meaningless goofs. The music's unpredictable and schizophrenic architecture subverts earnest headbanging. On Tripper, Hella's instrumental chops are better than ever, but riffs aside, there's not much to think about. "}