{"label":" Service","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16949/homepage_large.5be2c27b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"The Embassy","title":"Life in the Trenches","text":" In 2001, a Gothenburg, Swedenbased duo called the Embassy released a 7\" titled Sneaky Feelings. Sharing a name with both an Elvis Costello song and a jangly 1980s New Zealand indiepop group, the foursong EP was littlenoticed by Americans at the time, but it marked a turning point for their city's music scene. Blending Fredrik Lindson's yearning vocals and chiming guitar chords with Torbjörn Håkansson' pattering percussion, euphoric electronics, and occasional exotic sample or two, the record had more in common with the tweemeetshouse hybrids of early1990s Saint Etienne than with any record of its period even the Avalanches' similarly balmy, ambitious Since I Left You. By the end of the 2000s, echoes of the Embassy's aesthetic could be found in critically acclaimed albums by Jens Lekman, the Tough Alliance (who named their imprint, Sincerely Yours, after an Embassy song), Studio (ditto for their Information imprint), Air France, jj, and the Honeydrips, among others. Gothenburg's indie pop scene was now run by mysterious pranksters all too happy to tie the already thin line between sincerity and artifice up in sailing knots. Life in the Trenches contains 13 hardtofind tracks, most of which haven't appeared on an album. The set has a gleaming surfacelevel appeal, with the meticulous production and bountiful melodies that are to Sweden what beer is to Milwaukee. This music's vibrant lushness is most evident on the two newest tracks, the stoic strummer \"You Tend to Forget\" and loping fakeittilyoumakeit manual \"St8\", both 2009 singles a woman's soft moan, a vaguely African vocal snippet, or a bit of oceanic echo converts fairly simple songs into endlessly replayable tracks. But there's a fragile, unfiltered quality to Lindson's contributions, in particular, that keeps the atmospheric prettiness from lapsing into wallpaper. Slick craftsmanship? Raw expression? The Embassy reinforce how moot such questions can be. Life in the Trenches also embodies most of the contradictions that make the Embassy so beguiling. The impression of earnest sensitivity that makes you want to pat the guys on the head often gives way to a mischievousness that leaves a notunpleasant sensation that you're being had. Subtitled \"The Other Side of 20012011,\" the album sure gives the impression of being a rarities compilation, but one of the songs, \"Information\", appeared on the second of the band's two highly recommended fulllengths, 2005's Tacking. Then there's 2004 single \"Flipside of a Memory\", which starts with a guitar part that's jarringly similar to Nirvana's bonesimple \"Come as You Are\" riff, then builds it into a shiny electropop stomper about old love vague and vaguely familiar but no less affecting for either. Whether venturing into synthdrenched instrumentals (\"Puttgarden\"), dubwise hiphouse (\"Heathrow\"), or distorted electrorock (\"No Thanks\"), Life in the Trenches rarely keeps its simple pleasures as simple as they may at first appear. If these guys were handing out Halloween candy, you'd check it for syringes. In 2011, the Embassy look finally poised to capture some of the attention they were too early for the first time around. Elements of their cryptic presentation and polished yet slightly warped sonics can be heard across the indie pop spectrum, and the press materials for Life in the Trenches hint at potential new Embassy recordings in the near future. In the meantime, it's worth seeking out Tacking and 2002's Futile Crimes (itself a likely inspiration for the Tough Alliance title \"Silly Crimes\") to get a fuller glimpse of the duo's style. As for the Sneaky Feelings EP, the only copy I can find online is selling for upwards of $100, and the other nonalbum releases compiled here aren't much easier to track down. So for those of us who prefer to own our music in tangible form, Life in the Trenches is the best chance many listeners have had to acquaint themselves with these overlooked architects of some of the past decade's best new sounds. "}