{"label":" Handmade Birds","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16941/homepage_large.36346e05.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Circle of Ouroborus","title":"Eleven Fingers","text":" Most of today's forwardthinking black metal groups weren't born that way. This includes better known crossovers like Chicago's Nachtmystium or Norway's Enslaved, bands who started by coloring within the lines but eventually shifted styles so radically, they basically invented their own genres. Usually in black metal a scene with an extremely rigid set of rules and regulations progression takes time (and balls). Now and then, though, a black metal group emerges fully weird. Some of these are eccentric oddities (see, for instance, Striborg); others have a larger universal vision in spite of their strangeness. One of the more compelling of the latter is Circle of Ouroborus, a Finnish duo that's been finding ways to straddle its love of Joy Division and corpse paint for a number of years. (If their intentions weren't explicit enough on a 2004 demo or an early, eerie split with Germany's Urfaust, their first fulllength, 2006's Shores, included a cover of \"She's Lost Control\".) Since the beginning, CoO have continually tweaked and refined what they do, further establishing (and enmeshing themselves in) a very particular aesthetic, all without sounding samey. In 2010 they released, among other things, the Current 93like Cast to the Pits, the droning, blackened Fallesque depresso rock of Unituli, a split with the postmetal band Crooked Necks, and the Woldscaped MatterEther EP. The fact that the group is just two guys multiinstrumentalist Atvar and vocalist/lyricist Antti Klemi gives them a kind of devilmaycare, readyforbattle gameness. Or, to put in terms of prolific lofi peers from a different scene: Since 2004 they've put out records at a Guided by Voices pace. For instance, 2010 alone had close to 10 releases, including three fulllengths, a couple of EPs, a pair of demos, splits. Some are minor, some skippable, all of them pretty hard to track down. Their newest, Eleven Fingers, is my favorite CoO to date, their best fulllength since 2009's Tree of Knowledge, a collection released by Dominick Fernow's Hospital Productions. This new one, mastered by James Plotkin, is out on Handmade Birds, the new imprint by R. Loren (Pyramids, Sailors With Wax Wings). It should also be easier to find than some of the others: The initial vinyl edition of 500 will be followed by a larger CD edition Loren says will likely be available \"well into next year,\" something you don't usually hear regarding a CoO record. Beyond availability, it's the strongest, most concise example of what they do, a dark and depressive sort of blackened postpunk that also manages to be catchy and anthemic. (The lines, \"Now I drink the wine and swallow the shadow/ Now I take my knife and slash this landscape apart,\" on standout \"Shadows Lead\" should also give you an idea of the feel they're after.) Importantly, it's also a record that will appeal to people who don't care, at all, about black metal. As the previously posted \"Warpath\" suggested, Eleven Fingers spins a darkly cavernous, bizarrely buoyant sound that really is akin to Ian Curtis and mates delving into the kind of black metal that came along after Lords of Chaos. It's raw but deep, and there's a lot folded into its layers: Pair it with Iceage, and it's punk; play it with Amesoeurs, and the more postmetal tendencies surface. Even on the album's more stationary, droning rants, you get a sense of movement and release, something not always present in CoO's past material. They're better songwriters now, able to offer strong melodies and hooks, not just the originality of the aesthetic. In fact, the push and pull between these seven tracks feels impressively endless guitars buzz like synthesizers, drums pull you in with their wobbling rolls. More than on other recent offerings, they've found a way to reintroduce some of the black metal elements first associated with them: On opener \"The Prayer\", that deadened Curtis bellow is repeatedly interrupted by a fullon growl. Speaking of which, the most integral part of Eleven's upgrade are Klemi's vocals: The submerged, sadsack Mark E. Smithpatterned rantings are tuneful and (surprisingly) emotional. Overall, there's less distance. In the past you sometimes got the sense he was singing to himself in the next room; here, there's a weird connectivity, even if you have no idea what he's howling beneath all the fuzz. The biggest surprise, and greatest pleasure, though, is that Circle of Ouroborus no longer seem all that weird. Sure, one of the things that's always made CoO interesting is that dogged adherence to their original, obsessively personal aesthetic. (The \"Ouroboros\" is the symbol that shows a serpent forming a circle by swallowing its own tail. Or, as Klemi bellows in \"Warpath\": \"My pulse is my mantra.\") But if you didn't know the history, and didn't follow the timeline, Eleven Fingers would hit you like a great, haunting, moving postpunk record, not the culmination of a march inward by a couple of Finnish outsiders. "}