{"label":" Green Owl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16959/homepage_large.d555521b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"CHLLNGR","title":"Haven","text":" There's little argument that dubstep has bled into the mainstream. The pulsing electronic music offshoot that reared its head in South London in the early aughts has since gone global, and while it hasn't reached the same levels of notoriety as, say, hiphop did in the mid 1980s (nor has it yet become subject to those same levels of commercialization and bastardization), the market is indeed flooded. Enter Steven Borth, a CopenhagenbywayofCalifornia musician who records as the trendily monikered, allcapsnovowels CHLLNGR, best known for his cavernous, doomdrunk remix of the xx's \"Islands\". As with most artists that could be gathered under the shaky genre umbrella called dubstep, Borth has a few unique hallmarks to call his own, but you'd be safe in filing his debut LP, Haven, in the same section. In fact, if you were feeling generous, you could call Haven something of a primer for the uninitiated: Tickytacky drums, spectral moanings, and fuzz blurting synths all pockmark Borth's work, tweaked only enough on each individual track to make them distinguishable from one another. But for those who have explored the eversplintering genre just a little will notice that, at its best, Haven is an inoffensive introduction that only feels comfortable modeling the most basic templates put forth by some of his more moodconscious contemporaries. Which is to say it's a decent listen no one is going to call out Borth for not knowing what he's doing, as he occasionally drums up some creative pieces of programming but at a time when the most enjoyable and exciting voices within the movement are challenging people's notions of what this expanding niche is and can be, Haven seems to aim directly for the lowest common denominator. When Borth has some rhythm behind him, he has little trouble hitting the right sweet spots. Between the singleworthy \"Ask For\", which feels practically lowrider ready, and \"Out of Your Hands\" (boasting a pleasingly rickety snap), it's clear that he's struck a movementmotivated creative spark. But more often than not, it's those boilerplate creepings and ethereal purrings that take precedent. Where these spinetingling atmospherics have been known to raise pulses (Burial seems to be an important touchstone on Haven), Borth's simplistic poaching feels lifeless. Not to mention that most songs hover within the threeminute mark, making Borth look insecure in his ability to set a tone or expand an idea beyond its repetitive base. Perhaps even more staid are the ways in which vocals are handled. Borth is clearly interested in voices (Dragons of Zynth's Aku and Coco O. of Quadron both make appearances), but too often they're flavorlessly integrated. The reallive guests don't provide the dynamic dimension needed to pop against these backdrops, while the familiarly pitchshifted cries and coos only draw attention to the fact that, thanks to their overuse, this cybernetic brand of vocal manipulation seems to be verging on the parodic. But Haven is no parody, nor is it a carelessly made record it's simply a late entry that tugs the same strings, only to lesser effect. At a time when everyone else around Borth is pushing themselves forward, sitting pretty in the starting gate isn't the most effective strategy. "}