{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16968/homepage_large.1b281b61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"S.C.U.M.","title":"Again Into Eyes","text":" Look up any review of S.C.U.M. in the British music press, and you're likely to encounter the phrase \"little Horrors,\" a diminutive comparison to the band that put out this year's fine LP Skying. This was S.C.U.M.'s first handy hook for the NME not only because bassist Huw Webb is the younger brother of the Horrors' Rhys Webb, but also because the bands share traits on the musical and magazineready haircutsandcheekbones levels. This seems like the sort of tag the younger quintet would be eager to shake off, the better to stand on their own feet, but it's a lineage S.C.U.M. can't entirely lose on debut album Again Into Eyes. In the two years since their formation, S.C.U.M. have followed a strikingly similar path to that of their elders: Both began as brash, noisy outfits the Horrors as goth garage shriekers, S.C.U.M. with a reputation for nowave noisemaking live shows and have arrived in 2011 at an atmosphereheavy, 1980sinfluenced rock sound that's less abrasive and vastly more ambitious than those origins might've predicted. That tends to mean impeccably produced moody, midtempo rock songs, swaddled in vaporous synth textures, and led by seductively fainting singing. In S.C.U.M., the singing's done by Thomas Cohen, whose breathy, soft moaning smears across the rhythms on \"Summon the Sound\", drifting over the edge of the beat as it fades into the distance. It's a familiar effect, but Cohen's singing sounds less affected and more skillful than that of the Horrors' Faris Badwan. Another important distinction: While the Horrors recently rounded off the edges of their guitar tones (to the point of largely obscuring the instrument's original sound), S.C.U.M. have done away with guitars almost entirely in favor of keyboards and synthesizers. (A less commonly mentioned but perhaps more interesting family tie is that S.C.U.M. keyboardist Samuel Kilcoyne is the son of Add N to (X)'s Barry Smith one imagines him inheriting a pile of pristinecondition Moog synthesizers for his 16th birthday.) One sixstring features on single \"Amber Hands\", and there may be some more deep in the mix elsewhere (band member Bradley Baker is credited with \"machines, press,\" which leaves room for some ambiguity). Either way, the band relies less on sharp, mixpiercing leads than on amorphous washes from which the melodies gently emerge it's an accomplished sound, one that may not immediately dispense with the comparisons that have dogged the band, but one that does suggest a group more than capable of outgrowing the associations. "}