{"label":" Lex","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16967/homepage_large.02df162d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Boom Bip","title":"Zig Zaj","text":" It's easy to picture Bryan Hollon casting a few interested glances at Ford & Lopatin earlier this year, particularly when the duo gained acclaim for embellishing their work with overt 1980s pop references on Channel Pressure. Hollon, better known by the Boom Bip moniker he's recorded under for more than a decade, had already covered vastly territory in 2008 through his Neon Neon project with Super Furry Animals singer Gruff Rhys. But his work there and as Boom Bip has been characterized by a restless desire to keep his sound in flux, to constantly seek out fresh collaborators and remixers, to help pull away from any set patterns he may be settling into. Even Neon Neon, which bustled with future potential, quickly went quiet after Stainless Style was released. Hollon's work as Boom Bip has also fallen into protracted periods of silence this is the first fulllength release under that name since the 2005 album Blue Eyed in the Red Room. The fastidious arrangements that proliferate throughout Zig Zaj suggest he's spent much of that time laboring over these tunes, getting everything just right and slotting new collaborators into the fold. Hollon is primarily a producer of instrumental electronic works that grab from a range of disparate influences in that field. But he's also well known for the collaborators he brings into the fold. Rhys and Nina Nastasia featured on Blue Eyed; Alex Kapranos, Money Mark, and Josh Klinghoffer from the Red Hot Chili Peppers all worked on Zig Zaj. This one lacks a cohesive narrative in the same way that last Boom Bip fulllength release did that's to be expected from an album with such a diverse crew on board. It's a world that takes some adjusting to, especially when you get a great lurch from the Grizzly Bearlike, chaingang grind of \"All Hands\" to the broody noiresque pop moves of the Kapranosfronted \"Goodbye Lovers and Friends\". In fact, casual listeners could be forgiven for thinking they had stumbled onto an outright indie rock record at certain points, especially after a cursory listen to the versechorusverse structure (complete with grinding guitars) of the latter song. On \"New Order\" Klinghoffer and Empire of the Sun vocalist Luke Steele garishly clash to push the Boom Bip sound closer to the kind of popmetaltechno hybrid the Prodigy were practicing in their heyday. \"New Order\" is particularly jarring here and is likely to be a divisive and confounding track for Hollon's fans. It's a shame he found the need to bludgeon us so hard, as his real forte comes from gradually layering on elements, either in subtle, slowbuild movements (\"Reveal\") or through steely, Ladytronesque grooves (\"Automation\"). It would be wrong to complain that Hollon doesn't know what he wants Boom Bip to be, as he's always operated in this manner. But Zig Zaj feels like he's straining a little too hard to make every song different from the last, where he’s actually become pinned down by the \"eclectic\" reputation he's accrued, forcing him to make unwise decisions just to keep a certain degree of diversity afloat in his work. Fortunately, there aren't too many other clangers in the vein of \"New Order\". The Boom Bip sound really flourishes when Hollon happens upon a suitable meshing of his dual interests in indie rock and electronica on Zig Zaj that point occurs on the wonderful \"Pele\", which bears a heavy load of austere electronics that are gradually flipped out of the picture by some distinctly Curelike flanged guitar riffing. It's got that refined power of suggestion the higher quality Boom Bip tracks possess, which makes it doubly mystifying that he's occasionally happy to swap all that out and resort to sheer brute strength. But the individual songs on this record will find more color when extracted from the constraints of the album. It's not hard to see \"Goodbye Lovers and Friends\" getting a decent lease of life as a pop single, whereas here it feels like a malformed part of the puzzle that won't quite slot into place. No doubt Hollon wouldn't have it any other way. "}