{"label":" Salvo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16956/homepage_large.32e712e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"808 State","title":"Blueprint: The Best of 808 State","text":" In the late 1980s, 808 State asked themselves a couple of important questions: Was it possible to get the masses to rise up and embrace instrumental beatscapes? Could a couple of guys with a couple of keyboards become a pop group without ever really writing pop songs? Should a house or techno act even bother releasing an album aimed at a general audience? There was no real evidence that the answer to any of these questions was \"yes,\" but 808, along with a handful of other ambitious crossover types, persisted anyway. Thanks to a mixture of luck, timing, and skill, 808 actually succeeded. And more than an any other crossover 1990s dance act, they stayed true to both their club and avantelectronic roots. The careerspanning Blueprint proves that 808 did have a certain commercial instinct almost from the start. What's more surprising is how big they scored with the stuff on Blueprint that sounds the least commercial. 808 came up in the early days of British rave by making intense and dense compositions that represented club music at its furthestout, anticipating the kind of abstract hardcore electronica that didn't quite exist just yet. It's a thrillingly manic and claustrophobic sound, enough so that it inspired more than a few future IDM tyros. On the other hand, it's unsurprising that the caustic acid maximalism of \"Flow Coma\" never charted. 808's next single, however, hit in the biggest possible way. Relaxing a bit, like rave as a whole for a brief second, they scored massively with the platonically placid \"Pacific State\". The tune that helped to enshrine both the saxophone and the birdcall as part of the softer side of dance music's vocabulary, \"Pacific\" still has enough of techno's antic bounce to make it seem like a great lost direction for pop, where hippie relaxation vibes and bright video game funk are not incompatible. An accountant probably would have told them to ride their status as chillout pioneers until it stopped being profitable, which could have lasted at least until Moby smothered the trend stonedead with the success of Play. Instead 808 released a few charmingly clunky takes on hiphouse that are left out on Blueprint. That certainly helps the collection's flow, even if it does underline why the group calls this their \"greatest bits\" rather than a complete overview. When they finally rebounded, creatively, it once again paid off commercially. \"Pacific\" and their Britrap adventures had clearly given them an appreciation for ideas of beauty and fun that conformed to 99 percent of humanity's. But they never quite lost their taste for the robotsinmeltdown fierceness of \"Flow Coma\". \"Cubik\" and \"In Yer Face\" were among the 808's biggest non\"Pacific\" hits, but they were also among their rawest tunes. The difference is that the intensity now felt brash and joyful rather than hermetic and kinda creepy. But the fact that one of 808's albums was called Gorgeous should give you an indication that their sympathies ultimately lay more with \"Pacific State\" than \"In Yer Face\". Gorgeousness as an end in itself sometimes led 808 to slick and forgettable tracks like \"Plan 9\", which has as much passion and inventiveness as the houseashighendhotelmuzak they unfortunately helped inspire. But even \"Plan 9\" doesn't outstay its welcome. Early adopters of the \"radio edit\" approach to taking electronic dance into the mainstream, even 808's opulent ambient stuff almost always has an instrumental earworm to get you humming. So, in addition to being just damn listenable, front to back, Blueprint's also fascinating as a look at one group's answer to Brit dance culture's warring impulses in the 90s. 808's most memorable music is never split between opulent ambiance designed for the laidback appreciation of connoisseurs and rugged slabs of computer madness to pump the adrenaline of young folks juiced on rave's novelty. The two are almost always mixed up into the same tunes, the wild beat constructions complimented by a real musical richness. That's probably why they've endured, while so many onenote singles from 808's peers have faded away. "}