{"label":" Friendly Fire","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16960/homepage_large.87b01018.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Regina","title":"Soita Mulle","text":" That thing about a picture being worth a thousand words? Someone should remind Regina. The front cover of the Finnish indie pop band's fourth proper album, Soita Mulle (Finnish for \"Call me\"), is adorned with a beautiful blackandwhite photo (taken by Megan Kathleen McIsaac) of two people lying down in a pastoral setting. Unfortunately, the ugly and carelessly placed typeface obscures and, in effect, blunts the image's aesthetic beauty. Obviously, the band has a need to claim ownership for the album's contents, but the image on its own so excellently represents Soita Mulle's sensual, arresting feel that it functions strongly as a statement of purpose. Largely, Regina are working within what many listeners will instantly recognize as the dreamy, limitless confines of shoegaze only, their take on it is less staticky and obscured than the way today's younger bands have approached the genre. Soita Mulle's most impressionistic moments sound clean and deep an approach similar to what stateside shoegazers School of Seven Bells did on last year's Disconnect From Desire providing space to wrap yourself within their compositions, rather than attempt to smother you with blistering, fuzzy noise. This sound fits Regina like a glove, and the new look largely makes Soita Mulle their best record yet admittedly, an easy feat. Since 2005's Katso Maisemaa, the band's toyed with various genres and sounds just close enough to occasionally mix and mingle the cool allure of French yéyé, snatches of downtempo dance music, Stereolab's bouncy warmth. 2009's U.S. debut, Puutarhatrilogia, marked their most consistent effort at that point, but Iisa Pykäri's thin, powerbereft voice resulted in her surroundings sounding occasionally chintzy and underproduced. On Soita Mulle, multiinstrumentalist/principal songwriter Mikko Pykäri's production hand is heavy on the lushness, resulting in something more fullbodied and robust in sound. And, the improvements that Iisa's made as a vocalist are not to be overlooked: the album's highlights find her dipping in and out of melodies, filling the air with her voice, and effortlessly unleashing torrents of Finnish syllables. When she lets out a sweet melodic sigh near the end of \"Haluan Sinut\", you breathe with her, and that's a good thing. Of course, Regina being Regina, the band still does a bit of outsidethelines genre exploration, and as on previous efforts, it doesn't always come out well. On one hand, the piping synths of \"Ui Mun Luo\" gel with the song's cosmopolitan shuffle; on the other, \"Harjun Takaa\" seems an attempt to embrace upwardsmoving anthemic melodic structures, ending stuck on the tarmac instead. The misses scattered between Soita Mulle's hits make the album drag as a fronttoback listening experience and this record is nine tracks in under 35 minutes. Forget the cover art: the real tragedy about Soita Mulle is that Regina grab the brass ring of consistency for the first time in their career, and with excellent results they just can't seem to hold on the entire time. "}