{"label":" Glacial Movements","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16963/homepage_large.61074043.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"bvdub","title":"I Remember","text":" It can be difficult establishing a sense of personality in ambient music. Because of a relative formlessness and a lack of narrativebuilding lyrics, many of the ways artists assert themselves are via extramusical details like album art, liner notes, or artist bios on the far wonky side of the spectrum. Think, for instance, of Brian Eno's genredefining essays to the natureworshipping or the botanicallythemed titles of Biosphere. Brock Van Wey, aka bvdub, offers another good example. Van Wey is a hyperprolific ambient producer six fulllength releases this year alone, counting one collaboration with Ian Hagwood whose deeply sentimental titles (\"This Place Had Known Only Sadnes\", \"There Was Nothing But Beauty in My Heart\") and cover art of cold, lonely landscapes lit from within by a heavenly glow, place him in a corner one might term \"emoambient.\" It's a minor niche, maybe, but bvdub is hardly alone. Ghostly International artist the Sight Below has leveraged similarly sadsack song titles \"Feeling Lost Forever\", \"Burn Me Out From the Inside\" to evoke goth's mope and shoegaze's introversion. (The Sight Below's also gone so far as to record an actual Joy Division cover, making the leap from mere signposting to straightup homage). A certain type of music fan might be disposed to see these weepy marblenotebook poetry headings as kind of a flipside to the playful and pottymouthed wordiness that helped distinguished the Locust and Kid 606 as abrasive sonic pranksters rather than faceless avant noisemakers. The songs on bvdub's newest, I Remember, tend to follow a standard ambient formula, one made most familiar to indie audiences via Wolfgang Voigt's masterful Gas albums for Kompakt, on whose Pop Ambient series Van Wey has also appeared: a wash of sound builds layers of white noise, echo, and submerged melodies gradually reaching a climax sustained and minutely varied for minutes on end. Out of these slowly shifting clouds, any number of distinct elements (massed choral voices, the metallic pluck of an individual guitar string, echoing finger snaps) might emerge before being swirled back into the fog. Which is not to say the songs are mere static a single track (all but one of which on the 78minute album clocks in at 13 minutes or more) might subtly evolve through multiple movements before you realize they've passed. There are also slight but noticeable deviations from the ambient template: \"Would It Be the Same\" begins as a piano played in a bottomless well of reverb but gives way to the album's lone beatdriven passage, full of prickly, brittlesounding hihat skitter. Personality is a different concern from mood, of course, and I Remember would be thick with mood even without the handy reference points of track names and album covers. From the slowly coalescing guitar figure that opens the record to the Arcticwind howl that fades it out, bvdubs' tracks effectively conjure feelings of, alternately, frigid isolation and quietly blissful/wistful reverie. "}