{"label":" Marshall Teller","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16986/homepage_large.5356692e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan Minsker","artist":"Total Slacker","title":"Thrashin'","text":" This year's been a good one for 1990s revivalism, with bands like Yuck pointing back to the altrock heyday of Dinosaur Jr. and Pavement. Brooklyn's Total Slacker, the trio of Tucker Rountree, Emily Oppenheimer, and Ross Condon (brother of Beirut frontman Zach Condon), are an easy addition to the \"movement.\" They've cited Nirvana, Weezer, Beck, the Breeders, and Sonic Youth as musical touchstones, and you can hear those influences in their scuzzy guitars. But the 90s aren't just a musical inspiration they're the band's entire aesthetic. They coopted the typography and dinosaur from the Jurassic Park logo and slapped their own name on it. They named their band after Richard Linklater's 1991 film Slacker. Their lyrics cite \"Full House\", New Kids on the Block, and Bagel Bites. They have an entire song about a VHS collection and another one called \"Stuck in '93\". It's not a subtle implementation of the decade's many pastiches, nor is it meant to be. Total Slacker's sense of humor is the album's driving force, and it's both overt and weirdly specific. The lyrics, for the most part, are a goofy celebration of the slacker caricature. Between the references to weed and various snack foods, and the record's languid pace, Rountree perpetuates the archetypal slacker character with his nasal whine. The track \"Thyme Traveling High School Dropout\", for example, is a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtlesstyle branding for a guy who goes back to the 18th century because marijuana isn't illegal then. And the title \"Stealing From Salvation Army\" says it all he plans on doing just that after he wakes up in the afternoon. That's pretty much the whole album. Thrashin' largely depends on buying into that character and thinking it's funny, or at least interesting, for 40 minutes. At first, it works the aesthetic is clearly defined, and the jokey tone of each track functions as a cohesive statement. Most of the juvenile imagery is funny (\"He's watching 'Full House', playing Sega on his Slip 'n Slide\"), but an extended 1993 joke backed by a series of \"woo's\" and references to Crystal Pepsi ultimately doesn't stick. After you've heard the songs a few times, the gags become empty and start to sound like a roll call of 90s nostalgia keywords and stereotypes. And worse, some of the lyrics eventually grate (the second series of VHS references, for example). It's up to the music itself to hold up the album, and for the most part, their altrock churn works in their favor. The hooks, grinding guitars, and \"oohwaas\" of \"Psychic Mesa\" may drag, but they're catchy. If that song presents a joke, it's the most subtle one of the album (it's a song about an ideal psychedelic otherworld, and even if they're being ironic, it works). And thankfully Rountree is an adept guitarist. His style is reminiscent of some of their aforementioned influences, particularly Weezer and the Breeders. He uses a mild fuzz to accent simple, elegant guitar lines. \"Magical Date Night\" and \"High School Dropout\" open with moodsetting onenote solos that act as complete earworms. And even though \"Koolz Mccrulez\" is 11 minutes of one hook on repeat, it's offset by echoing psych guitars. It's a nice, spacey cooldown from the gimmickry. It's impossible to ignore what Thrashin' is at its core a shrine to growing up in the 90s. Sure, there are references to things that are post90s, like MySpace and Four Loko, but even those things are shellacked in irony at this point. Oppenheimer said that these songs were written as jokes, but they ended up having a good time with them, so they built the band with that general aesthetic. And maybe that's the most important thing: The songs can be fun, if only for a moment. Their narratives sharing pizza bagels in a bunk bed, going back in time to meet Miles Davis are weird and silly enough to warrant some kudos to Rountree as a weirdo and songwriter. But even with great hooks and bubblegum melodies, it's hard to imagine Thrashin' as an album that outlasts the initial series of laughs. "}