{"label":" One Handed","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16984/homepage_large.798b41a1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Paul White","title":"Rapping With Paul White","text":" In case the album title's got you thinking otherwise: Paul White is not a rapper. He's a producer from London, a designation that, these days, might bring to mind dubstep and UK bass but despite some enthusiastic cosigns from publications that orbit around that scene, White ain't part of it. He works in sticky, abstracted hiphop rhythms coated in THC resin; 2009's The Strange Dreams of Paul White, one of his earlier fulllengths (all of which can be heard on his Bandcamp page) found Captain Beefheart bumping up against weirdedout boombap. Those previous releases felt homemade and somewhat amateurish, a distinction which makes Rapping With Paul White a bit of a comingout party: there's equal parts mutant funk and dusty beats here, but it sounds like White's first true statement of purpose, his own preferred introduction to new listeners. Perhaps not coincidentally, it's also his first LP that largely features guest vocals (this is where the Rapping comes in); White's gathered names both recognizable (Danny Brown, Homeboy Sandman, frequent past collaborator Guilty Simpson) and notsorecognizable (Marv Won, Moe Pope, Tranqill). So this is a record that depends as much on what the spitters bring to the table as what White cooks up in the lab and, unfortunately, the rappers don't exactly come correct. Considering how he and White have a past history of collaborating, you'd think that Guilty Simpson and White would be firing on all cylinders by now; instead, the Detroit hardhead unfurls cliché after cliché and drops vague, autobiographical teases that don't reveal much in particular. (Though he gets points for the \"murdering mic's like Conrad Murray\" line in \"Dirty Slang\".) His performances are uninspiring enough to think that of last year's fulllength collab with Madlib, the cleverly titled OJ Simpson, relied solely on 'Lib's beatcraft. Fellow Motor City spitter Marv Won rides the chantknock of \"Run Shit\" ably, but spoils the broth by getting corny about Heath Ledger; Queens native Homeboy Sandman, on the other hand, basically recounts a trip to England on \"A Weird Day\", which is about as thrilling as it sounds. Even Danny Brown, another Detroit rapper that is having a very good year with his excellent, audacious XXX mixtape, is smothered by the spiraling carnival melodies and gameshow filth of \"One of Life's Pleasures\", his trademark excitability barely registering. The only rapper that comes out of this unscathed is White's labelmate Tranqill, whose cadences on \"Rotten Apples\" match well with White's searing, voidcreating beat. There are instrumental versions of Rapping With Paul White out there and I strongly suggest seeking out those versions, if only to feel the blunt impact of White's strongest moves (the spooky claps of \"Trust\" and \"Indigo Glow\", in particular). You could take a rapless version of this LP and convince your friends that it's a beat tape from Madlib or Oh No, a quality that speaks as much to White's influences as it does his lack of a specific identity. Thing is, copping to Stones Throw influences almost seems quaint these days, as anyone with an ear to the ground has noticed that much of the underground hiphop that's in vogue relies on quiet introspection, stronger drugs, and ambient, eerie beats made by people who inexplicably refer to themselves as Friendzone. The fact that Rapping With Paul White sounds so oldhead suggests that the \"Stones Throw sound,\" made most popular by the late J. Dilla's inimitable Donuts, is on the verge of transitioning from old school to just plain old. "}