{"label":" Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1571/homepage_large.00d1233d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Console","title":"Reset the Preset","text":" It's fairly common or at least I hope it is for critics to see what other folks are saying about an album before laying down their review, in order to establish some context, to make sure you're not just rehashing a tired angle. Reset the Preset proved a difficult subject for such research since it had yet to achieve stateside release, the only reviews available online were in the group's native German. Fortunately for Pitchfork, I received four years of training in German back in high school; unfortunately for Pitchfork, all I remember are swear words, how to order a beer, and the correct way to announce \"I smoke cheese!\" However, I am also highly skilled in the use of the Google page translator, and fired it up to do my factchecking on this lengthy double album. I confirmed that Console is predominantly the work of Martin Gretschmann, who is \"also known for the electronic influence of the guitarband The Notwist, in which he is a fixed member.\" Console's also earned some acclaim of his own with the Matador release Rocket in the Pocket, which featured the \"from the media high praised lovesong to his computer,\" \"14 Zero Zero\". But the most helpful Germanic resource I found was an Amazon user review by one Juergen Albertson, a lad with a promising future in the boom market of poorlytranslated criticism. In his native language, the title of the review reads \"Guter Elektrorock!\" a statement that's not only accurate for the purposes of Reset the Preset but a ripe compilaton title just waiting to be plucked. Yet somehow the translated version \"Good Electrical Skirt!\" is even more fitting, as Gretschmann enlists the singing talents of Miriam Osterreider on the poppier of the two stylisticallysegregated discs. Dubbed Reset, the first platter works like a photonegative version of The Notwist: rockaccented electronic rather than the opposite. Gretschmann shrugs off the recent IDM vogues, ignoring the glitch and only dipping his toes into the electroclash, instead choosing a fairly straightforward clubby sound: \"electrical skirt with genuine woman singing,\" as Juergen says. \"Dirt on the Wire\" is the most effective of these, combining deep strobe light bass and loops with unexpected horn breaks and robotic vocals before stopping on a dime and reconstructing its genetic material into a new, more corporeal direction like a Sade remix. Osterreider's Warwick act works well within the lappop constructs of Reset, her ability to emote more than your typical electro detachment sweetening the Morrish \"The Times They Are Not AChangin'\" and floating amidst the synthgaze ending of \"A+A=B\". Juergen rightly points out that it sounds dangerously close to other Indietronica acts, but also says the material \"makes for all of us luckier humans.\" Well put. Disc Two, Preset, is entirely instrumental, and launches with \"Diagonal\", which could be the score to Terminator 4: The Machines and Humans Lay Down Their Weapons and Start a Groove Band Together. Tortoisey with live drums and bass churning, while guitars and keyboards fight for melodic supremacy, it implies that Gretschmann is going to take a hack at Germanifying the Chicago sound. Ach der lieber, If only it were so; instead much of the disc concerns itself with meandering soundscapes, offering up four original tracks alongside dubbier, sparser remixes. Nothing offensively bad, mind you, but without much in the way of innovation it sounds like stock IDM gone stale: the nineminute \"Marina\" sets Barcelona street accordion against a tired triphop beat, \"Independencia\" scatters wholesale beat flurries amongst minimalist piano...Juergen calls it \"pluckernder, verschmitzter Ambient from the PowerBook,\" and I have to agree with him provided \"pluckernder\" and \"verschmitzter\" are as negative as they sound. The organization of Reset the Preset makes it nice and clear what Console is best at producing: the digitized indiepop of the first disc, and his work with The Notwist. Stripped of traditional song structures and without a band to manipulate, Gretschmann's work can't seem to find a foothold to distinguish itself from the catalogs of other keyboardslingers. As a result, only occasionally do Console's \"sound surfaces join themselves perfectly unexpectedly from single noises and awayrinse us.\" Goddamn, no way can I top that. "}