{"label":" Roadrunner","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16997/homepage_large.df5bb71a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Opeth","title":"Heritage","text":" In a review of the special edition reissue of Opeth's 2005 collection Ghost Reveries, I quoted band leader Mikael Åkerfeldt as saying that what his group does is \"more than metal.\" At the time, the forwardthinking Swedish group was still very much performing within the metal tradition. On their 10th album, Heritage, they aren't. For longtime fans, the shift from progressive death metal to fullon progressive rock won't be a surprise: 2003's Damnation gave a good idea of what Åkerfeldt sounded like doing clean vocals sans death growls, and since 1995's debut, Orchid, he's never been afraid to stretch the templates of all the genres they incorporate. (Åkerfeldt's used his airier croon for ages here, more confident in that angle, he removed the heavier stuff and expanded upon the airier bridges.) What might surprise you, though, is the intense completeness of the transition: Heritage's 1970sinspired prog feels more like the followup to fellow countrymen Dungen's 2004 opus Ta Det Lugnt than Opeth's own Watershed. The 10song collection is another collaboration with Porcupine Tree's Steven Wilson, who mixed the record with Åkerfeldt it has a warm, analog feel, something that lives up to the colors of the cover painting. The brief opening title track is a plaintive, scenesetting piano piece Åkerfeldt says was inspired by Swedish jazz pianist Jan Johansson and the folk music of his country. Elsewhere, guest spots from Swedish flautist Björn J:son Lindh and Weather Report percussionist Alex Acuña (both on eightminute loudquietloud standout \"Famine\"), give Heritage a mystical, pastoral feel. If you've heard only the King Crimsonnodding lead track, \"The Devil's Orchard\", you have a good idea what to expect: an exuberant, forward rushing blend of bellbottomed jazziness and Deep Purple, Camel, and Jethro Tull love made more complex with quick tempo shifts, stoponadime implosions, and breezy, racing, drifting, and other sorts of atmospheric, psychedelic flourishes. Another track, the muscular \"Slither\", is appropriately dedicated to Ronnie James Dio. The 37yearold Åkerfeldt, who says Heritage is an album he's been \"building up to write for and participate on\" since he was 19, has also mentioned listening to Alice Cooper frequently over the past year. You won't necessarily detect the latter in any obvious way, but you'll feel it in the album's appropriation of the texture and atmosphere of an era. Åkerfeldt and co. do offer a convincing take it's a pretty, wellthought out collection but for all the ideas and layers, Heritage feels somewhat empty. It's the group's most genremelding, but it's also the most obvious, largely because much of it sounds like things we've heard before. The lifelessness may also be the result of the singularity of the vision: Heritage lacks the usual shift and pull between heavy and soft that they've managed to weave into their music for the past two decades. It feels a bit listless and emotionally distant. When it comes down to it, Åkerfeldt's death growl is more memorable than his rock singing (and both work best when you get them together). There are dynamics here, but not the kind that create unexpected chills. The story behind Travis Smith's colorful cover painting is instructive. We're told Åkerfeldt gave the artist a number of references including Pieter Bruegel's \"The Triumph of Death\", Hieronymus Bosch (in general), and the Beatles' Yellow Submarine. The final picture depicts a tree sprouting the heads of each Opeth member with the noggin of exkeyboardist and backing vocalist Per Wiberg, who left the band after recording his parts for the new record, toppling into \"a pile of exmembers' skulls.\" Beneath those skulls? The roots of the tree that point to the band's devilish roots in death metal. We're also told the nine stars in the sky represent Opeth's nine past albums, the sun representing Heritage. Then comes the line of people \"want[ing] a piece\" of the band, etc. It's fine to get conceptual, of course, but the forced, overripe symbolism of this image and its fussiness point to a problem with the record: Åkerfeldt remembered to include everything here except space for his songs to breathe. He refers to Opeth records as \"observations\" and, ultimately, for all its considerable beauty, Heritage too often feels like a passive, backward glance. "}