{"label":" Williams Street","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17000/homepage_large.2ed03c6c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Cerebral Ballzy","title":"Cerebral Ballzy","text":" Punk rock has a long tradition of taking the counterculture vibe that rock'n'roll cultivated back when hipshaking was a crime against propriety and cranking up the volume to intentionally offend every possible denomination: the fans, the critics, the outcasts, the bigots, the sellouts, the scenesters, and so on. Some bands had a wellreasoned method to their misanthropic madness, and some just wanted to piss people off (or, in special cases, actually piss on people). What's most 0ffensive about Cerebral Ballzy's attempts at \"edgy\" provocation isn't tastelessness or insensitivity it's the blandness. To be fair to these five guys, it's not like they're aiming for any sort of lofty artistic goal. They just want to be a punk rock band, with their own stupid band name, with their own songs about getting fucked up and telling various authority figures and peers to fuck off, and with their own Raymond Pettibon cover art (complete with bonus photocopier fuzz at the edge of the image, for that extra bit of D.I.Y. verisimilitude). Granted, it's on the musiclabel offshoot of the studio famous for a lot of Cartoon Network's Adult Swim content it's the label's first noncompilation fulllength that has nothing to do with one of their shows, actually but let's leave the scene politics to the Maximumrocknroll's of the world. And it's not like they're necessarily bad at it. They know the moves (the spokenword intro, the slowintofast startup, the \"bridge\"), they know the rules (the album proper is only 20 minutes long, with only one song clocking in at over 150 seconds, and to hell with a guitar solo), and they hit their marks. \"Singles\" like \"Cutting Class\" and \"Insufficient Fare\" are perfectly OK punk songs. So are the other 10 \"official\" album tracks, as well as whatever nonlive bonus tracks come with the various different versions of the album. \"OK\" is about where these guys top off, though subject matter notwithstanding, the songs are pretty interchangeable, meaning there's not much that distinguishes antiestablishment tracks like \"Anthem\" and \"Don't Tell Me What to Do\" with passthepipe tracks like \"Drug Myself Dumb\" and \"Puke Song\". This album features perfectly serviceable and perfectly competent, middleoftheroad punk rock music that probably sounds much better live than it ever could in a recording studio. If it weren't being released at a time when groups like Off!, Double Negative, Trash Talk, and any number of hardcoreflavored punk groups are putting their own individualistic spins on the wellworn, threechord monte, Cerebral Ballzy's paintbynumbers take would possibly stand out. And if it weren't for the countless number of precedents that have done exactly what CB are doing here, their faithfultoafault homage might actually seem quaint. In this day and age, though, what these kids are doing, and the way they're doing it, means that their only truly distinguishing feature is their band name. And when all you've got going for yourself is that you're called Cerebral Ballzy, you've got your work cut out for you. "}