{"label":" Mishka","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/16995/homepage_large.b6ca5709.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Mr. Muthafuckin' eXquire","title":"Lost in Translation","text":" Full disclosure: I am totally cognizant of how this review might be utterly pointless. A rapper named Mr. Muthafuckin' eXquire has chosen that for his album cover. Your mind's already made up. That is, if it wasn't already after his searing, antieverything calling card \"Triple F\" that's \"fuck 'em\" in triplicate or \"Huzzah\", eXquire's dangerously catchy single produced by horrorcore vet Necro, with a hook that packs boundless sociopathology into five words: \"drunk driving on a Wednesdayyyy.\" Such an assault of antisocial behavior would lead to you believe there's nothing pleasant or new about Lost in Translation. But it's a nice surprise how it reveals itself as a comprehensive and ultimately human, if not always humane, portrait of eXquire's consummate underground ruggedness. eXquire's been getting a healthy share of buzz of late, in large part because of the most divisive aspect of Lost in Translation: this is a New York mixtape and one that's provincial as fuck. His cantankerous and bullish flow can be traced to all purveyors of unwashed hoodie rap, but he boasts of a \"Vote for Pedro\" tattoo representing the underdog and all of the alcohol being abused is within the budget of the listener. Casual fans will easily spot the interpolations of JayZ and Lil' Kim tracks from 1996 but bonus points if you spot the hattip to a 50 Cent freestyle on Hot 97. Likewise, it's not enough to have a boombap medley called \"Pissin' Between Train Cars\" stuck between \"Cockmeat Sandwich\" (\"if you ain't seen Harold & Kumar, that means suck my diiiiick\") and an indefensibly drawnout blowjob skit he tells you where his stop is on the C Train from Euclid (Utica, if you're interested). That some of these beats are ripped from Cannibal Ox's The Cold Vein might be the best illustration of the realm in which eXquire functions. It's a world of postWu murk where even the gulliest sounding dudes escape into comic books and hiphop CDs because girls just don't understand. Even if it all takes place within a couple of city blocks, eXquire makes it feel like a universe of experience where he comes of age as a microphone fiend (\"I Should Be Sleepin'\"), lays out some deeply nerdy storytelling raps (\"Maltese Falcon Pt. 1 and Pt. 2\"), and joyfully gets on some Anthony Bourdain shit as an ambassador to his local chicken spots (\"Plus they got pizza, y'all can't fuck with this/ Got macaroni salad too, but I don't trust that shit\"). But don't think that this is merely a celebration of New York… or really a celebration of much of anything. His focus on humility and grind doesn't separate eXquire from many other up and comers, but when I hear, say, Green Ova Undergrounds, their hustle raps seem to take place in some sort of vacuum, and it's unclear what they're pushing against other than themselves. Translation is similar in a lot of ways to Danny Brown's XXX mixtape in that eXquire's sharing some very uncomfortable and often unflattering aspects of his life in order to fully express just how real this is to him. You get the feeling Lost in Translation wasn't chosen as a title for the fact it's a cool phrase: Despite the occasional guest rap, it shares the movie's overwhelming loneliness and desperation. He's in command railing against hiphop ass kissers dud skits named \"Hip Hop Networking 101\" and \"YeahRight!.com\" should make that obvious but when bills, guilt, and the impending sense he's fucked up his life get the better of him on \"Nuthin' Even Matters (Regrets)\", eXquire's surprisingly effective singing voice rings out like a distressing call from someone who might end it at any moment. Likewise, while the drowsy hooks on \"Lovesponge\" and \"BuildABitch\" might initially signal the point where this 18track tape should've packed it in, eXquire sounds more confused than misogynistic. On \"Huzzah\", eXquire boasts, \"publicist asked me what's my gimmick, I said 'going in,'\" and it's based in truth: these aren't the kind of lyrics filled with punchlines and tricky wordplay, and his fairly unglamorous strengths lie in his ability to pick beats, flesh out concepts, and develop stories. There are plenty of easily identifiable precedents in his tone and cadence Method Man, 50 Cent, hell, even a hell of a lot of Dr. Dre whether topically or vocally, eXquire covers so much ground that I'm not sure I'd be able to spot an uncredited verse from him. Particularly on \"The Last Huzzah!\", he sounds a little indistinct compared to highly pronounced stylists like Danny Brown, Das Racist, and ElP. The \"Last Huzzah!\" remix is easily one of the best posse cuts of the year, and besides hearing Brown continue his hot streak and Das Racist come through with the kind of quotable jawdroppers that were few and far between on Relax, there's the sense that some kind of vanguard is being established. Along with Brown, Roc Marciano, and Action Bronson, in a different era, they're the type of songsavvy hardheads whose skills and sound might have landed them on a major label with no real idea of what to do with them. But the freedom they have allows them to honor and revive \"New York rap\" as an artistic framework rather than a matter of geography: Of course that designation was going to generate skepticism when the personalityfree likes of Skyzoo, Maino, and Saigon were all too eager to claim the throne. But eXquire has less to do with \"real MCing\" than a relatable realness, so yeah, that cover really does make sense: eXquire is flaws and all, and it's tough to look away. "}