{"label":" Tompkins Square","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/16993/homepage_large.4a7930ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"This May Be My Last Time Singing","text":" In 2009, YETI publisher (and Pitchfork contributor) Mike McGonigal assembled a compilation of \"raw, rare, and otherworldly AfricanAmerican gospel\" that showcased his penchant for wild, devilfearing church songs. As far as gospel collections go, Fire in My Bones felt revelatory, crucial: those three discs of evangelical missives reconfigured religious music as unpredictable, sonically challenging material. McGongial's next project, This May Be My Last Time Singing, focuses specifically on gospel songs recorded and released between 1957 and 1982. Like its predecessor, it's a deeply compelling document of the various ways human beings talk to God. There's urgency to all good art, but gospel music, in particular, is fueled by desperation: Transmit your message of gratitude to Heaven before you lose the chance entirely (and end up somewhere else). The mission is massive, but in many cases, the material legacy is humble; at least a third of the songs included on This May Be My Last Time Singing were selfreleased and pressed, in small batches, onto 7\", 45rpm discs, a process paid for by church congregations or the singers themselves. Decades later, McGonigal tugged those little records out of cardboard boxes and milk crates, trawling record shops (this might be the only compilation in recent memory that thanks at least a dozen), online auctions, and flea markets for lost prayers. That these songs were released commercially (even if they sold only a few dozen copies for local or vanity labels) feels paramount to any real understanding of the performers' intent these aren't field recordings. They're solicitations: holler along, fall to your knees, pray with me. Believe. McGonigal's finds are spread across three discs, each loosely organized around a state of faith (\"The Devil's Trying to Steal My Joy\", \"Perfect Like the Angels\", and \"All Wrap Up in One\"), and while they range dramatically in style from funk to rhythm and blues to drum machine psychedelia they're linked by an industriousness that feels unique to the genre. No matter how rowdy these tracks get, their creators are still doing selfless work. This May Be My Last Time Singing focuses specifically on postwar gospel, but most of it feels oddly timeless. Rev. J.W. Neely and Family's \"Don't Let Nobody Turn You Around\" was selfreleased in 1980 but sounds divorced from the era altogether; it's disorienting to consider that this rendition was born into the same pop landscape as Pink Floyd and Blondie. An a cappella, handclapheavy ode to solidarity in the face of temptation \"Don't you let nobody turn you around/ You just keep on together,\" Neely and family shout, their voices warm it's encouraging, never threatening. Same goes for the Exciting Traveling Four's \"O Lord I Have No Friend\", which was released by the National Recording Label in 1982. Save a wonky electric organ intro (which sounds as if it were being piped up from the deep end of a swimming pool), \"O Lord I Have No Friend\" is quaint and earnest in a way that defies its age. You can practically see the matching bow ties, the four faces crowded around a single mic. The collection's longest track, the sevenandahalf minute \"He Walks With Me (Parts 1 and 2)\", is also its most exhilarating. Calvin Leavy, a singer and guitarist from Arkansas, scored a modest hit in 1970 with \"Cummins Prison Farm\", a scrappy electric blues that decried conditions at Cummins Prison, the Arkansas penitentiary infamous for its abuse (torture and inmate rape were common, and in 1968, three skeletons, one decapitated, one with a crushed skull, and a third with both legs broken back were discovered in shallow graves on the prison grounds). In 1976, Leavy who, in a particularly cruel twist, would be shipped off to Cummins himself for drug charges in 1992 recorded \"He Walks With Me (Parts 1 and 2)\" with the Cummins Prison Farm Singers for the aptly named Messenger Records. The song contains a bogus fade out three and a half minutes in, but Leavy's really just warming up, his raspy voice growing higher, wilder. The music loose, rudimentary rock gently revs back up, providing a steady, rhythmic canvas for Leavy to scribble all over. His message is determined, redemptive: we are not alone, not ever. By the time the track actually fades out, it feels like there's a full army of believers crammed into the room. Plenty of new, privately sourced anthologies have inadvertently positioned the record collector as curator, savior, interpreter. But unlike many maniacal stockpilers of vinyl and shellac, McGonigal doesn't fetishize these songs as hardsought rarities. This May Be My Last Time Singing contains plenty of oddball finds, but, as McGonigal explains, these are just the tracks he loves the most which is exactly what renders him such a reliable guide. As his brief liner notes state, \"these are the songs I'm most obsessed with, that if you dropped by my house I'd say 'You have to hear this.'\" Which, as any music fan knows, is the very best way to hear anything. "}