{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/16994/homepage_large.ed6a06ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"Speculator","title":"Nice","text":" In spite of having the lofi \"slacker\" label hung around his neck at nearly every turn, L.A.'s Nick Ray is far from a slouch. For the past couple of years, he's been releasing tapes for his oneman project Speculator, taking samples and blurring, frying, or completely eviscerating them. Much of his music to this point sounded like 1980s and early1990s nostalgia blown apart from the inside. While the notion of samplebased music is usually accompanied by the image of someone hovering over a machine, Ray treats his compositions with the immediacy of a garage band finally figuring out its parts everything is usually nailed in the first take. Last year's Lifestyle featured hairmetal, charttopping pop, and the Super Shredder scene of the second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie all thrown into a torrent of distortion. It was an avantgarde, postmodern collage of blownout pop music, carrying the woozy and deteriorating quality of a frequently malfunctioning VHS tape. While Nice isn't as reliant on artdamaged nostalgic sign posts (it uses far fewer samples than his previous work), it certainly doesn't neuter Ray's flair for sonic exploration. The album effortlessly segues from 80s radioready poprock and chillwave to firstwave shoegaze and motorik. Ray can sound like he's from the Purling Hiss School of ClassicRock Appropriation in one move, and just as seamlessly turn in a lilting, ambient piece that may or may not be named after a member of the Black Eyed Peas. There's the corrosive synth line that swells to the top of \"Design\", and there's the tape decay and clanging guitars that interrupt \"I'm a Slug\". What's remarkable about Nice is how cohesive it sounds in spite of the vast array of styles; it never submits to the \"album that sounds like a mixtape\" format; instead, it sounds like the work of an artist crafting everything he touches into something of his very own. This is the first Speculator fulllength pressed onto vinyl, and Nice is definitely a work of two sides. Side One sounds like an album all on its own, starting with the foundsound rumblings and spectral guitar line of the album intro and ending with album highlight \"(It's on) Every Channel\", a blaring drone track whose tempos and pitches are shifted by Ray using the tape machine itself as an instrument, a trick he uses more subtly on a few of the album's tracks. The four songs on Side Two feature a meditative pace, the album's final minutes a more glacial stride than the popfocused numbers that populated Side One. Instead of ending with the slow burn of ballad \"Blue Rose\", Nice closes with the buildup of distorted synths that is \"Sweet Emotion\". Even without a drum track, the rhythm of the song's elements is hypnotic, eventually swirling into a vertigo of drone and delay effects, serving as the album's eroded, dissonant, and weirdly effective punctuation mark. "}