{"label":" Monkeytown","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17003/homepage_large.c66ffc4e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Modeselektor","title":"Monkeytown","text":" With their last couple of albums, Modeselektor have proved themselves artists with a range of farflung good ideas that just can't seem to coalesce into one big concept. But if the Berlin duo has never been entirely easy to categorize hiphop with techno sensibilities or viceversa, with recent forays into allpurpose et ceterastep (Modeselektion Vol. 01) it helps quite a bit that they've never been selfserious purists. As it happens, their new album, Monkeytown, should benefit from the fact that there's still a boom market for nebulously connected circles of \"bass music.\" Listening selectively, it's pretty easy to hear Modeselektor picking up on some postFlying Lotus signifiers. Opener \"Blue Clouds\" seeps out like a slightly more placid take on Cosmogramma highlight \"...And the World Laughs With You\", swapping out its frantic, futurejunglist breaks for a lesscluttered rhythm and letting the synths simmer instead of boil. Busdriver feature \"Pretentious Friends\" rides off a buzzing throb that fits the MC's wiseass artrap credentials well, though the most interesting sonic tweaks and maybe the most disorienting ones are all the hitches and hiccups and pitchwarps that they embed into his voice, like a mangled stretch of magnetic tape that can't quite find the right tracking. \"Humanized\" is a nauseatingly wobbly AntiPop Consortium teamup teeming with winking, retrospaceage analog noise. And the highestprofile cosign comes in the form of Thom Yorke; \"Shipwreck\" and \"This\" highlight his ability to sound more emotionally compelling the more his voice is dissected. The former track's rampedup, nervoustwitch ambience and the latter's massive yet isolated emptyarena echo both loop snatches of halfformed words and phrases into hypnotic swells that are bobbed and tossed by roiling, skittering rhythms it's heady stuff, easy to sink into. But don't look for that sort of Brainfeederlike atmosphere to run through the whole album there are more than a few tracks that refuse to let Monkeytown be defined by a single operating motive. \"Evil Twin\" in particular busts out a more straightforward take on techno, bumping a 4/4 beat that's as upfront as some of the glitchier tracks are evasive. \"German Clap\" flirts with UKfunky rhythms in a way that seems to beg from a titular scene of its own, ascending synth chords clashing against descending, liquidburble bass. The club tracks, the more experimental IDMskewing cuts (\"Blue Chords\"), and the Yorke collaborations form their own kinds of peaks, but Modeselektor pull off accessible, popfriendly stuff just as well. Hearing Miss Platinum go from disconnected voicechopping to euphorically harmonizing with herself on \"Berlin\" gives the slowride electroR&B groove some real gravity, especially when all those parts finally reassemble into her untouched human voice for the hook. And even if the delicate melodrama of \"Green Light Go\" seems a bit too selfserious amidst an otherwise playful and energetic collection of songs, it still builds tension in a way that manages to sell its wistfulness as something legitimate. The album may be scattershot, but perhaps that doesn't matter so much when it's delivered out the barrel of a 12gauge. "}