{"label":" Not Not Fun","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17002/homepage_large.b241df03.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Maria Minerva","title":"Cabaret Cixous","text":" Maria Minerva is begging you to think about her music. And not just think about it: pick it apart, deconstruct it, comb it for references. Overthink it, even. Hotbutton issues both musical and not hypnagogic pop, 90s revivalism, feminism are baked into Cabaret Cixous, her second album for Los Angelesbased antipop label Not Not Fun. Maria Minerva (real name Maria Juur), certainly has the pedigree: the daughter of an Estonian music critic, Juur studied art history while in college; she contributes to The Wire. Cabaret Cixous borrows monikers from two Juur favorites: the pranging electro of Cabaret Voltaire and lauded feminist writer Hélène Cixous. Juur doesn't softpedal her exploration of sexual dynamics; she pouts lustily in photos and gyrates in music videos. Sex can be a tricky subject for an artist from Juur's world: mainly, it's difficult to walk the line between the carnal and political in pop music. (Madonna, for instance, expertly managed both, but it seems easier to err on the side of the carnal, like almost everyone else.) Selfconsciousness and obfuscation can be deeply unsexy, and while it's easy to admire the games Juur wants to play with her image, there's very little allure or attraction on Cabaret itself. It's one thing to undermine the exploitation of female sexuality to sell pop music; but in doing so she also seems to undermine the immediacy and compassion the very appeal of pop music. Juur, at least, has the right inspirations: 1980s electro and dancepop, 1990s house. Much of Cabaret sounds like Ariel Pink covering Jennifer Paige's \"Crush\" hooks made to quiver over seasick chords and seasicker drum machines though I don't think Juur is playing the same savantlike memory games Pink is. Her referents are too carefully cultivated, too obviously considered (though no one should do her the disservice of suggesting insincerity). Juur's treatments are like the soap scum: Her aim isn't just to dull the shine of the nickelplated pop that informs her music but to alter its texture. Cabaret conveys thinness above all, Juur's dryly echoing vocals and keyboard presets hovering on the same plane. It constantly feels like even a cursory scrubbing would make a world of difference. In this environment, beauty and melody are secondary concerns, though they are concerns. It's impossible to hear standouts such as \"Pirate's Tale\" and \"Soo High\" as anything other than soberly conceived pop songs, but \"pop songs\" is a tricky term: these tracks aren't meant to unite, or inspire, or empathize. They're meant to make you think. About what, exactly, sometimes gets lost: the lyrics of \"Ruff Trade\" eerily triangulate sex, violence, and despair, but \"Soo High\" begins with \"Baby baby baby/ You make me so high/ When I'm around you/ Time just flies by.\" Tongueincheek? Probably, but I don't always wish to exit my swoony pop trance to suss that out. So you see why Cabaret functions best in the midst of the Maria Minerva audio/visual/theoretical experience: Juur's music isn't yet precise enough to probe the nuances of admittedly weighty material on its own. I really like Cabaret Cixous' sound, though it's fidgety and restless, full of love for its inspirations despite its partly academic birth. I'd be more optimistic on Juur's future if her prodigious output Cabaret follows her Tallinn at Dawn tape, also released this year and haphazard recording style signaled a clearer process of trial/error/refinement. She is not moving toward a more perfect remembrance of or epitaph for dance pop; we remain firmly in the realm of ideas. For now, Cabaret is paper disco of a thoughtful and occasionally moving variety, more durable than it lets on. "}