{"label":" Fenway","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1573/homepage_large.f7e7f682.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Consonant","title":"Consonant","text":" It's like Clint Conley has been thawed out of hibernation. After years off the Boston rock scene, he's jumped back in as if he was never gone. First he plays a handful of ravedabout reunion shows with Mission of Burma the most famous out of a legion of great rock and pop bands that played Boston in the 80s. Now he's got his own project, Consonant, whose debut album has just been released. There's nothing wildly new or innovative about the band, and nothing unfamiliar about the music; it's just an extremely likeable powerpop band playing a bunch of great songs. With Burma, Conley played bass and wrote some of their best songs, including \"That's When I Reach for My Revolver.\" As Eric Van of Boston rock rag The Noise reports, Conley kept writing for a while, and then stopped until recently; this album includes both postBurma songs and brand new ones. When he decided to record them, he worked with Holly Anderson to turn her poetry into the lyrics, and lined up an indie allstar band featuring Chris Brokaw of Come and Winston Braman of Fuzzy, plus Matt Kadane of Bedhead and Silkworm on drums. Consonant is more accessible than Mission of Burma, and less jittery and abrasive. It veers towards powerpop, though it's usually more propulsive than jangly. It sounds as if it was recorded in a wornout Allston rehearsal space, which gives the band room for their rough edges and loose professionalism. The opener, \"Blissful,\" immediately grabs you with a slick hook and ebullient drumming. From there, the moods switch from dirges like \"Call it L,\" to soaring pop like \"What a Body Could Do\" (which cribs from a song by the Busted Statues). \"Details of Attraction\" has precious overtones and almost folky, fragile vocals; like most of Anderson's lyrics, the words can be lined up to spell out the names of flowers, which admittedly ain't too rock. But \"The Kiss\" and \"John Coltrane's 'My Favorite Things'\" blare full bore on top of Conley's and Brokaw's guitars. Anderson's and Conley's lyrics are full of fumbling sexuality and vulnerable moments. Aside from a few misfires (the \"Love, glove, moon, June\" line in the song \"PostPathetic\"), they're a perfect match for the vocals. High and a little thin, Conley's isn't the most assertive rock voice, but the songs turn that into a strength: for example, the shouted grind of \"Buckets of Flowers, Porno Mags,\" or the amused frustration on \"PostPathetic.\" And he sounds genuinely unguarded on the slower numbers for example, on \"Not Like Them.\" One of the standouts, \"What a Body Could Do,\" has lyrics about teenagers learning to mess around with each other. It's as blaring and tensely excited as the adolescent sexuality that these guys should have forgotten years ago. When the song drifts into a quiet bridge, you can see from a mile away that the band's about to come crashing back, rocking harder than ever. It's the biggest cliché in the lexicon, but when it happens, it's like nobody's ever done it before: you have to crank up the volume and pound on the dashboard. Maybe it's the spontaneity of the playing, or the honesty of a mature and experienced man who can still talk about fumbling around and figuring things out. Or maybe it's the excitement Conley projects from getting back in a band and realizing he's as talented as ever. Consonant's debut sounds fresh even though it's steeped in years of indie rock and, best of all, Boston rock. It could be my hometown prejudice, but this is one of the most flatout enjoyable albums I've heard this year. "}