{"label":" Fat Possum / Lefse","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/16755/homepage_large.f71fbcdd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Youth Lagoon","title":"The Year of Hibernation","text":" There are a few things we've come to expect from recent, homerecorded indie pop: thin production, lyrics that reference childhood and nostalgia, a vibe of hushed intimacy, lots of reverb. Youth Lagoon, the project of 22yearold Boise, Idaho, musician Trevor Powers, ticks all of those boxes and sounds immediately familiar the first time you put it on. \"Posters\", the opening track on his debut LP, The Year of Hibernation, even starts with a warbly synth to evoke the fabled VHS glow that has become a touchstone for kids of his generation. When you hear so much of this stuff, it starts to bleed together almost as if by design and you start to wonder what it would take for an artist in this realm to stand out. Powers has a few ideas. Some of the album's appeal is straightforward. Powers writes melodies you remember and has an excellent ear for arrangement, even if the songs are rendered crudely. They generally start as whispered laments and then twist and turn until they become huge \"oh oh oh\" singalongs. The album sounds like it was recorded in a bedroom, which feels right given the small and personal details of the songs, but it strains to break free of its technical limitations. Rare is the record in this sphere that works much better loud, but The Year of Hibernation wants to be cranked. Roomfilling volume allows a song like \"Afternoon\" to grow from its delicate, whistleandelectrickeyboard opening into its grand, swelling conclusion, with a 4/4 marching drum and wordless vocal refrain that envelopes you like a hug. The title of the record describes its world. These are songs about alternately hunkering down and hiding, and heading out into the world to explore and report back on what you've found. Powers is very much an innocent here, a kid with an ear for poetry who mixes striking images with the occasional groaner. The music of the Pacific Northwest feels like a key touchstone, and in many ways Youth Lagoon seems like a shy, quiet, and more hermetic version of what Modest Mouse were doing before 1997's The Lonesome Crowded West. Small town claustrophobia bumps against the possibility of wideopen spaces. Two of the first three songs reference the latenight strobe of the television and beds and walls of posters, and these are mixed with campgrounds, woods, lakes, and watching fireworks from a roof. I don't want to strain the Modest Mouse comparison, since this record doesn't have a \"band\" feel, but the guitar breaks also show Isaac Brock's early flair for simple melodic embellishments that complement the songs perfectly. Dean Wareham is another guitarist with an ear for elegant guitar leads, and the comparisons with Galaxie 500 extend to Powers' cracked guitar whine and way of building clattering and echoladen arrangements to moments of grandeur (not to mention the G500like song \"July\" that outlines a disintegrating relationship against the backdrop of a sky filled with explosions.) Powers is smalltown throughandthrough and doesn't have a hint of Wareham's cosmopolitan sophistication, but that works for this landscape. Hibernation is a record for pulling up the covers and dreaming and then venturing out to the town to see the strange and magical world of encroaching adulthood. The anthemic \"Cannons\" starts off with Powers singing, \"Rolling up the windows of my '96 Buick so the rain can't get inside of it,\" and that pretty much sums it up: The record mixes feelings of protection and safety with the tug of adventure and wraps it in compulsively listenable music that explodes at just the right moments. "}