{"label":" Editions Mego","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17007/homepage_large.763e5873.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Bill Orcutt","title":"How the Thing Sings","text":" Many influences behind Bill Orcutt's acoustic guitar music are easy to guess the raw blues of Lightnin' Hopkins and Fred McDowell, the abstract improvisations of Derek Bailey and Cecil Taylor, Orcutt's own attacking bent in 1990s noise outfit Harry Pussy. But there's at least one that nobody could've deduced: \"tic videos.\" As Orcutt told The Wire, he's fascinated by clips \"made by people... who have these involuntary physical and verbal tics, and they actually document their symptoms and put the videos up on YouTube.\" It's an odd inspiration, but one that says a lot about his playing style, which Orcutt himself likens to hiccuping. His wiry plucks and messy note clusters come in exhilarating fits and starts, so fast and impetuous that his guitar strings seem hardwired to his firing neurons. His obsessive repetition is less about creating studied mantras than capturing the primal power of involuntary impulse. That goal is reflected in the title of his second acoustic album, How the Thing Sings. It implies that Orcutt would rather document his muse than control it, letting the flow of his spilling ideas be the thing that sings. This approach gives his music a distinct immediacy, something like a waterfall of consciousness rather than a stream. And its rapid, irregular heartbeat creates an urgency that commands attention. You may not love all the moves Orcutt makes, but together they quicken your pulse and pressurize the atmosphere, much as a good horror film makes even calm moments seem one second away from shock. Such tension allows Orcutt to venture into all kinds of territory without hitting lulls. Often he'll veer from plaintive strums to lone plucks, then into torrents so hyperactive they sound overdubbed, even though How the Thing Sings was recorded in single takes with a single room mic. This forceful jamming together of moods results in overlapping narrative arcs. In \"The Visible Bosom\", sandy chords give way to halting minimalism, only to smash into lightning bolts of string strangling accompanied by Orcutt's possessed moans. That sound collage is stretched to epic proportions on closer \"A Line from Ol' Man River\", which fuses together so many hectic ups and downs that calling it a rollercoaster would be an understatement. The same is true of How the Thing Sings as a whole. It's tempting to focus solely on the adrenaline rush of Orcutt's playing, and let it all fly by like a stoner zoning out to Jackson Pollock's splattery paintings or Stan Brakhage's colorfilled abstract films. That's a fine way to experience Orcutt's music, but there also seems to be a lot of intense thought going on behind his impulsive acoustic clatter. Maybe that's why his solo acoustic work has so far had a lot more staying power than the fleeting pleasures of a single trip. "}