{"label":" History Always Favours the Winners","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17015/homepage_large.28c16693.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Leyland Kirby","title":"Eager to Tear Apart the Stars","text":" James Leyland Kirby is an ambient musician whose records tend toward the romantic and sentimental. Tinkling bells, faraway strings layered with static, softpedal piano lines ready to soundtrack footage of rain falling from the window of a slowmoving train: This is Kirby's world, and in Kirby's world the moments are lost, the opportunities missed, and the sky gray, then black, than gray again. I suspect this all sounds heavyhanded, but what makes his music appealing to me is its curious lightness. It takes a teenager to be melodramatic, but it takes an adult an adult capable of the weird human reflex called nostalgia to achieve Kirby's levels of ambivalence and indifference. Eager to Tear Apart the Stars his first fulllength under his own name since 2009 is melancholy, sure, but it doesn't strike me as the kind of album designed to make its listeners melancholy. Its operative verbs are drift, float, shrug. A record like this takes poise and patience aside from the grim opener \"The Arrow of Time\", I almost never feel any muscle, any sense that a mood is being forced on me. And yet at nearly every turn music like this seems eminently delicate: A stray sound could shake the listener out of whatever dream the album has put them in. There's depth here, too, and enough bass, grain, and atmosphere to make the music as engaging at louder volumes as it is passive at quieter ones. On my first few listens I thought of a quote from the filmmaker and archivist Jonas Mekas that my editor, Mark Richardson, quoted in his review of Fennesz's Endless Summer, in talking about the look of decaying Super8 film footage: \"time is laying a veil of poetry over them.\" Eager is filled with moments where static is employed as a texturing device and sounds have a recycled, distant, and brokendown character. In 2011, this tactic is nothing new nostalgia is just a clipped signal away. Ultimately, though, that is where the album's poetry comes from: hearing Kirby's sweet, sad piano and string lines sound like they're crumbling as they reach our ears. Eager is Kirby's second great album of 2011: He's also responsible for the Caretaker project, under which he released An Empty Bliss Beyond This World near the beginning of summer. The alias isn't really just for the sake of the artist's ego: While both this record and and An Empty Bliss have an unrepentantly nostalgic quality to them, the Caretaker records have become narrowly focused on microedits of prewar parlor and ballroom music, but the music Kirby's releasing under his own name has a more cinematic, less conceptually unified feel. I'm not sure one's better than the other: There's something satisfying about how contained the Caretaker sound is, and something equally satisfying about how permissible and personal Kirby sounds under his own name. I can't say as many nice things about the two Intrigue & Stuff 12\"s he's put out this year. The first has a vaguely techno conceit to parts of it, with more clearly defined and rhythmically rigid synthesizers. The second, for interested parties, is closer to Eager, but denser and outrightly threatening. In both cases what I think turns me off about them and what turns me on about Eager is the constant feeling of Kirby's presence, pushing buttons, triggering things, mixing sounds together. And that brings me back to what makes Eager a compelling and frankly weird album: At times, it sounds like there's nobody there making it. "}