{"label":" Boy Better Know","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17021/homepage_large.4cf776b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Tropical 2","text":" The timing wasn't right for the Boy Better Know collective's first Tropical mix: in 2006, while most grime was trying to erase the distance between itself and hiphop, dubstep was mired in deathcrawl dystopias, bassline had yet to hit popular consciousness, and UK funky hadn't even happened, the world may not have been ready for a collection of feverish girly rave tunes reimagining the space between grime and garage. Emerging from the febrile imaginations of grime artists JME and Skepta, Tropical was messy and ravey, an exhausting sprint through spiraling, Todd Edwardsstyle vocals and roughhewn 2step loops, as if grime's lowbit, highcontrast aesthetic had circled back to swallow early UK garage whole. But its rave was radically dysfunctional, too hysterically unbalanced for ordinary dancing. Instead it seemed a glorious, unrepeatable oneoff, a sound whose moment had passed before it could arrive. But the unrepeatable always does repeat, and here we are five years later with Tropical 2. Replacing Skepta with several youngergeneration acolytes, JME's belated sequel already feels more at home in the wider world than its predecessor ever did. What's changed in the intervening halfdecade is less the Tropical sound (though that has, too) than the sonic constellations into which it reemerges. Whether in postdubstep (Zomby, Rustie, the Night Slugs stable), or the undergrounds of funky, grime and bassline, virtually everyone seems to want to make some brand of lurid, hypercolor (let's call it) ravehouse, sonic approximations of the fixed grin of partying past your physical limits. As if to underscore this point, Tropical 2 features several tracks from basslineintogrime unifier DJ Q, whose pretty but disconcerting, stuttering house tunes constitute the tropical sound at its most resolved, their glowering basslines, gauzy synths, and overlapping sighs molded into a disorienting edgelessness even as they stagger, like a room with no corners. Even more pointedly spelling out the Tropical raison d'être, widescreen instrumental grime specialist RoyalT perversely switches to unabashed house for his sole contribution, \"Cool Down\". Like a hyperactive dub of Robin S.'s \"Show Me Love\", \"Cool Down\" is the year's greatest dance antheminwaiting, an exhilarating victory lap of organ basslines, xylophone riffs, and a quavering Greek chorus of female vocal samples. But with the glorious exceptions of \"Cool Down\" and \"The Stranger\" (unexpected but welcome bustling syncopated garage from Todd Edwards in a startling piece of Back to the Futurestyle intergenerational meddling), Tropical 2 is mostly lessexcitable than its predecessor. Rather than skip relentlessly toward a fluorescent, druggedup futureworld, the mix instead plunges into zones of eerie, beautiful uncertainty. In particular, JME builds on the mysteriousness of his best contributions to the first collection, less laughinggas rave than alien ballet on a heliumcloud planet. With their delicately stabbing snares and hesitantly strobing cutup vocals, \"Sandy Beach\" and \"Easy Jet\" almost defy description, existing in a state of zerogravity paranoid grace think the feel, rather than the specific sound, of Super Mario Bros.' underwater levels in the game's rudimentary, mid1980s incarnation. Throughout, the Tropical celebration of wrongness is retained, but in a manner more creeping and creepy for its nearrespectability. Preditah's \"New York\" misremembers Skepta's earlier Tropical tunes like jungle misremembered hardcore techno, its jagged, asymmetrical snares and shrill, sliding vocal samples subsiding into jazzy piano chords, and the soothing refrain, \"tell me you need me,\" pushing U.S. garage to the max. What Preditah and everyone else here recognizes is how mixing in the smooth with the rough simply makes the latter more estranging and disquieting. This music is most exciting at its most morphological: Best of all are the interstitial moments between tracks when one contorted, molten shape deliquesces into another, beats interlocking in strange patterns of the residual and emergent while melting hiccup vocals form impromptu harmonies. It's this sense of being thoroughly of its time and yet outoftime, ontrend but offworld, that helps make Tropical 2 so much more compelling than the multitude of edgy house/grime/dubstep DJ mixes clogging the internet's arteries. Rather than expose the connections between everything in a vibekilling process of demystification, the artists on Tropical 2 trace a constellation of perspectives looking awry, a slippery articulation of that sense of (im)possibility in rave that is more than rave and more than dancing: the shapes we throw to constrain the aliens seething under the surfaces of our skin. "}