{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17023/homepage_large.9f902cd4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Superchunk","title":"Foolish","text":" In certain key ways, Superchunk's Foolish perfectly sums up what made so much early1990s indie rock so great. It was rambunctious enough for kids who craved the caffeinated buzz of punk rock at its catchiest. It was also tender enough for kids who loved hearing their own humansized romantic foibles reflected in indie's everyperson approach to the love song. Foolish can be plenty fast and plenty noisy, but it skips the meathead aggression that's a nasty side effect of so much fast and noisy music. It's unafraid of getting down to personal angst, but smart enough not to get all gross and mawkish about it. It was made by a group who could have walked off stage and gone to their day jobs without having to change out of their Rock Band costumes. These are the kind of songs about bad breakups, worse parties, and lonely walks home that you and three of your friends might have written. Except you probably wouldn't have, or couldn't have. Like a lot of early90s indie music, Foolish still projects a D.I.Y. spirit, a welcoming vibe of accessibility, community, smallscale ingenuity. But there's nothing about the album that really says \"anyone can do this.\" In fact, it still sounds like a major statement, albeit one from a selfeffacing band. You knew from \"Slack Motherfucker\" that Superchunk would not be destined to play collegetown gigs for a couple of years and then disappear. They were just more driven than the bulk of their contemporaries, a work ethic that's pretty obvious from at least album no. 2 onward. You don't come up with that many intense and memorable choruses, or play that tight, thanks to luck. And while they had an antipretentious streak that was a godsend in the messianic years of grunge, Foolish is where the band's ambition really blossomed for the first (but not the last) time, a dozen songs that turned smalltown heartbreak into loud and weirdly triumphant anthems. A big part of that is the sound of Foolish, and how that sound perfectly complements the more adventurous songs. But then, despite their rep as a smoking live act who do their best to simply translate that vibe in the studio, Superchunk have always had a real knack for picking the right producer for a specific set of songs, almost from the start. Steve Albini's typically unembellished recording on 1991's No Pocky For Kitty accentuated the wiriness of its very frantic tunes. John Reis added an almost claustrophobic, garagerock intensity to the rawer set that would make up 1993's On the Mouth. Those albums weren't exactly static, though they did get a lot of mileage out of punk's joyful bashing. But Foolish is very much a bigcanvas album, full of stark, quietloud shifts, songs with more breathing room, and grander peaks. Given that producer Brian Paulson's the guy who recorded Spiderland, he seems to have been the perfect choice to give Foolish the appropriate weight and ferocity. Mac McCaughan and Jim Wilbur's guitars on \"The First Part\" clang and scrape as fiercely as any of the posthardcore bands coming out of D.C. at the same time. But there's also a real bottomend under all that trebly attack, the kind missing from most classic indie albums of the period, give or take the similarly minded Archers of Loaf. Paulson keeps things crisp and booming in the lowkey moments, going fulltilt when the band decides to get loud. Painful examinations of an exhausted relationship, like \"Keeping Track\" and \"Revelations\", start out at a slowburn and build to a thrilling climax or three, the wave of feedback coming almost as a relief after all that pensive tension. Foolish is a heavy album, musically and emotionally. But it's also never a drag. That controlled sense of pacing extends not just across the songs but the whole album. There's still plenty of that old joyful bashing, the caustic moments balanced by speed and sweetness. Heartpunching breakup songs like \"Driveway to Driveway\" are also bright shoutalongs. This remaster sounds just fine to me, maybe a little louder in the top end as usual, though my muchplayed and morethanadecadeold CD copy also sounds plenty fine. The real benefit is that Foolish is once again available on vinyl; while clearly aimed at longtime fans, the newly appended live set and handful of other bonuses are still largesse on the part of Merge, one the few labels that actually bothers to include something of value if you're going to repurchase an album you've already owned in multiple formats. But the original album remains the main draw, especially if you just came onboard with last year's swift and colorful and totally fun Majesty Shredding. This is probably the darkest album Superchunk ever made, but however serious Foolish gets, there's always more of the giddy thrill of hearing a group friends who sound like they're having a blast playing together, even if they're also pushing themselves to go further, giving the songs that much more allornothing intensity than everyone else around them. "}