{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17029/homepage_large.9638422d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Loney Dear","title":"Hall Music","text":" Taking a wideangle view of the sweeping vistas he's spent years detailing in miniature on his often homerecorded albums, Hall Music Swedish softie Emil Svanängen's sixth LP as Loney, Dear is his most elaborate work to date. Where there once was little more than voice and guitar and a bit of keyboard, there are church organs and double bass and, at the end of \"Calm Down\", a gorgeous vibraphone solo, all swirling around Svanängen's high, lonesome vocals. Matching an intimacy of sentiment to a grandiosity of sound, the longing in Svanängen's throat seems palpable and piercing, and the rich orchestral arrangements he drapes over these tunes mostly serve to heighten Svanängen's matters of the heart. Hall Music may be Loney, Dear's most sumptuoussounding record to date; its tender, plainspoken songs are just as humble and heartfelt as anything Svanängen's done. But their unguarded sentiments sometimes shrink under the weight of their ornate arrangements. Opener \"Name\" turns \"I want your name/ I want your name next to mine\" into a mantra of devotion, its music starting small but swelling to match the accumulated emotion. The swarming music heightens Svanängen's lyrics. \"D Major\" starts out plaintive and pretty but slowly builds to a crescendo of AutoTune, while \"Loney Blues\" gracefully folds in glimmers of sound as it rolls along, lending the song a depth of feeling its semimuffled vocals only halfexpress. Svanängen's long been fond of soft starts building to shimmering squalls, but on past albums, its been a flutter of synths and guitar rather than a tangle of brass and strings. When Hall Music's flutterby orchestrations run up against one of Svanängen's more heartrending sentiments, there's a multiplying effect, the high drama of Svanängen's devotionals sent skyward. But as often as they bolster Svanängen's pleas, these arrangements seem to crowd the songs themselves from the frame. Despite Hall Music's expanded instrumental palette, Svanängen's songwriting style essentially hasn't changed much since his last LP, 2009's Dear John. Svanängen still prefers to let a few words say what too many might muddle, doubling and tripling his oftaffected voice to send the central message of his songs straight through the chest cavity. But some of Hall Music's grander instrumentations offer a lot for Svanängen's gentle voice to compete against, and occasionally it's just too much; the brassy \"Largo\" finds Svanängen duking it out with a tuba (and losing), while the slightly sour melody of \"Durmoll\" proves no match for its stabbing strings. This newfound musical nuancé isn't at fault there; it's often the songs themselves, which can't always claim the same sort of depth. There's a track on Hall Music called \"My Heart\", and then, not too many songs later, another called \"Young Hearts\", which should tell you plenty. Love and the like have always been Loney, Dear's favorite subjects, but whether he's devoted or destroyed, the oftpuppydoggish Svanängen frequently falls back on familiar sentiments, leaving the inbetween emotions for the music to handle. That, it often does, but even a stirring highlight like \"I Dreamed About You\" does little more than increase the drama behind its titular line over progressively swelling synths, and too often here, Svanängen's sweet nothings come up a little empty. For all the sonic strides Svanängen takes on Hall Music, he sometimes seems stuck singing the same sad song. "}