{"label":" Sacred Bones","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17004/homepage_large.8756b45e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Zola Jesus","title":"Conatus","text":" Nika Roza Danilova began her Zola Jesus project with a formidable arsenal already in place. She had a richly gothic perspective honed by a rural upbringing and studies in philosophy, a background in opera conjoined with a taste for industrial music, and a scarredyetcommanding voice. The albums and EPs she issued over the last couple of years were startlingly realized for such a young artist, but Conatus, a big record that keeps turning dark and strident, makes them seem like warning shots. Most traces of obscuring murk have burned away, so that every pock and ridge in the rugged, elemental music stands out distinctly. It's new wave mounted on a geological scale, where Danilova's solipsistic spirit \"I was able to communicate this universe that is my prison,\" she said of \"Vessel\" assumes epic proportions. Her bouts of nihilism feel nervier and more bracing in the unforgiving light of sonic clarity. The closer she gets, the more enigmatic she's revealed to be. Conatus is mainly built from thundering toms, majestically revolving synthesizers, and warm courses of classical stringed instruments. \"I kept having these primal images,\" she said of the music, \"just quite strange landscapes and shapes I couldn't shake.\" That may sound like a meaningless gloss, but on \"Swords\", the minutelong opening track, you can hear exactly what she means. Concussive drums and scrolling mechanical textures vividly evoke a terrain. Whatever biosphere you choose to project on it (I get desert), Danilova's voice remains fixed on a faraway horizon, receding as you approach. When she bursts into the foreground on \"Avalanche\" and stays there for the remainder of the album, the impression of impassable distance lingers. This is partly because of the authority of Danilova's voice, and partly because the music gives nothing away, thrumming along with power that shades into ambivalence toward the shifting emotional register of the singing. The results are dramatic but never melodramatic, as Danilova maps the dimensions of her selfimprisonment with resolve. There has always been something almost subliminally idolkilling about the Zola Jesus project, and it really comes into focus here. Danilova's childhood opera aspirations are subverted into something nearly opposite. Opera singing is narrative and flows smoothly from deep within. Danilova is more allusive and tortuous. Her voice keeps getting caught in her throat, where it's stressed and twisted by transient emotional surges. Though the theatricality and the epicpop trappings may evoke artists like Dead Can Dance, the vocals have the passion of blues singing. Danilova is equally iconoclastic when it comes to industrial influences like Throbbing Gristle, finding ways to make abrasion as musical as possible without sacrificing tension. Her touchstones have been digested into a personal style that is much more substance than reference. She has said that she struggled with the psychological pressures of opera singing. You could regard her early run of Zola Jesus recordings as a direct reaction against intricate formality and classical perfection: an eruptive loosening of strictures and simultaneous retreat into shadow. Though some may miss the rough and raw approach of her last two EPs, it's refreshing and exciting to hear music that relies on bonehard essence rather than gauzy trimmings to create an aura of mystery. There's a newfound sense of purpose, as if, having tested her abilities, Danilova now understands exactly what she's doing. "}