{"label":" Young Turks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17030/homepage_large.068ad5e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Bullion","title":"You Drive Me to Plastic","text":" Being a fan of Bullion can be frustrating. The West London producer real name Nathan Jenkins first caught a fire in 2007 with Pet Sounds: In the Key of Dee, a surprisingly deft, quasimashup record that married snatches of the Beach Boys' classic LP with a variety of J Dilla samples. Roughly four years, an EP, and a handful of singles later, and an honesttogoodness Bullion fulllength still hasn't fallen into our laps. This brings us to You Drive Me to Plastic, which saw release on Young Turks at the tail end of last year as a onesided 12\". The 500 copies went fast, and while it was made available overseas on CD this past April, it's only now available stateside. While it might be the second closest thing he's ever done to making an album proper, You Drive Me to Plastic is, in fact, not the debut we've been waiting out for. Billed as a \"nonLP,\" the piece's nine tracks blend into one another to create a 20minute extended mix, highlighting Bullion's genresmashing groovers that continue to prove just as idiosyncratic and danceable as past efforts. Using shorter, less movementminded pieces to glue together three big, singlefriendly tracks and a more ambitious finale, Plastic most certainly doesn't feel like a debut, but it also doesn't seem like just another keepingbusymixofthemonth either. Whether the whole \"nonLP\" tag sounds like a bunch of nonsense to you or not, a little more Bullion in any capacity is a good thing. One of Bullion's greatest assets is being able to work with so many different ideas and styles while being overwhelming, and the way Plastic is structured is perhaps even more of a testament to this ability. Each of those interludes provide a specific purpose, linking the more memorable moments to create an even more fluid experience. And while stuff like \"Lol Express\" can get by on its own merits, sounding something like M83 crashing into a 1980s copshow theme, the real pull are the more fully realized songs that will inevitably end up in a \"Best Of\" folder along with his more poporiented assemblages. Everything from wandering saxophones, strange vocal clippings, chic club pulsings, and a variety of geographically varied rhythms coexist together while rarely sounding jumbled or too mazy. It shows that, for a guy who isn't terribly prolific, his attention to pacing and matching incompatible sources with finesse often results in success. Bullion has often oriented himself using hiphop he's the same guy that could thrown Klaus Nomi and Buffy SainteMarie on a track and still have it sound like an Afrika Bambaataa record but Plastic finds him exploring the dancefloors of Europe and the Carribbean. \"Magic Was Ruler\", which again features a SainteMarie sample (\"God Is Alive, Magic Is Afoot\"), feels as if you could salsa to it, with a bright guitar line and horns that are evocative of a night out in Havana, while \"Pressure to Dance\" splits the different between slinky Italodisco moves and Kraftwerk. There was always a sort of deranged quality to Bullion's sound as well maybe it has something to do with the fact that his music has always had a joyous, almost spritely disposition, but often contained imperfect samples and darker tinkerings that could readily translate as feelings of unease. A good many of these 20 minutes explore even more haunted extremes. \"Too Right\", which features a pulsing Laurie Anderson vocal sample, is one of the more menacing things he's ever produced. Plastic might not contain your favorite Bullion moments (some of the shorter tracks feel a bit lost), but they're important in the sense that he can feel comfortable exploring certain extremes of his personality without compromising the sound he's been sculpting over the past few years. "}