{"label":" Domino / Double Six","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17032/homepage_large.10ab35c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"John Cale","title":"Extra Playful EP","text":" \"Say hello to the future, and goodbye to the past,\" declares John Cale on the first song on his new EP, and no doubt, he's earned the right to sing that line. For a good chunk of the past two years, Cale has been touring a fronttoback performance of his 1973 chamberpop masterpiece Paris 1919, the most enduring and beloved album amid his sprawling postVelvet Underground discography. Naturally, the process of revisiting a specific body of work night after night can't help but exert some influence on an artist's subsequent move, and Cale is no different. However, in the case of the Extra Playful EP Cale's first release in six years, and a teaser for a new fulllength coming in 2012 the Paris 1919 revival has seemingly inspired him not to revisit that album's orchestrated elegance, but to take a reactionary leap into the opposite direction, to further explore the deconstructed electronic productions and mechanized power pop heard on 2005's Black Acetate. From an artist who's always evinced an adventurous spirit and sense of humor (however dry and dark it may be), the title Extra Playful is to be received as both a promise and a threat. The ideal here is a sort of absurdist, avantgarde take on adultcontemporary pop, feeding straightforward, midtempo rock'n'roll songs and romantic balladry through synthetic sonics and alien frequencies. From the mellotronlike psychedelic textures that lend the endearing serenade \"Whadda Ya Mean By That?\" a woozy, weightless feel, to the Scary Monstersesque freakazoid guitar squall that rips through the android funk of \"Perfection\", Cale takes considerable glee in destabilizing his songs' structures. To wit, the Francophonesung triphop flashback \"Pile a L'heure\" would sound right at home on some circa1996 chillout compilation, were it not for an unnerving background drone that provides a distant echo of Cale's violascraping on the Velvets' \"Venus in Furs\". But Cale's sense of playfulness can degenerate into cringeinducing silliness, as on \"Hey Ray\", which works the same Beatsplusbeats formula as Black Acetate's equally illadvised \"Brotherman\". As a satire of 1960s idealism, \"Hey Ray\" is actually pretty funny, as Cale plays callandresponse with his backing chorus, counting off each year from the decade before reducing it to a punchline: \"1967 it's the golden age/ 1968 and it's all over!” (Tellingly, he stops short of calling out 1969, effectively dismissing the year of Woodstock, Manson, and the lunar landing as just another year with nothing to do.) As a song, however, \"Hey Ray\" is a sorethumb irritant on an EP that otherwise carefully mediates between Cale's populist and deviant tendencies. That said, it's still guaranteed to be only the second worst thing a former member of the Velvet Underground will release this year. "}