{"label":" Lakeshore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17042/homepage_large.bc2204c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Drive OST","text":" A few weeks ago, the film Drive opened to wide release. Nominated for the Palme d'Or at Cannes, it's a pulpy story about a stoic wheelman (Ryan Gosling) who digs himself even deeper into the Los Angeles criminal underworld on behalf of a woman and her son. Drive is a genre film, heavy on style and short on dialog, complete with fingershuttering spurts of violence and, despite being set in the present, a pointed focus on retrocool and classic car films. The Monday morning after Drive's opening weekend, the soundtrack anchored by a few unknown but choice 1980sindebted synthpop songs and a score by Cliff Martinez (Steven Soderbergh's goto guy) went to number four on the iTunes music charts, its success credited to good wordofmouth thanks to Twitter. If you've seen the film, it makes sense: The Drive soundtrack pops with just as much neon camp and sex as the lipstickscrawled opening credits. Effective and memorable soundtracks need to either introduce you to new music that works on its own or transport you into the world of the film. Drive manages to do both, mostly thanks to the five songs that come early in the album, preceding Martinez's score. Director Nicolas Winding Refn (known for ambitious indies Bronson and Valhalla Rising) preselected these tunes before the score was written. Most of them catalog key moments in the film and are for the sake of getting this thing on folks' radars the real draw. These songs follow such a similar format, you could almost mistake them for the work of a single band. All have hyperliteral lyrics, drypulsing beats, and subdued, comely female vocals. Sounding like a more sinister second coming of the Human League is opener \"Nightcall\" from French electronic artist Kavinsky, featuring vocals from CSS's Lovefoxxx. \"I want to drive you through the night down the hills/ I will tell you something you don't want to hear,\" purrs an almost demoniacally mechanized voice, and it's hard not to imagine yourself doubleclutching it down Mulholland. Lovefoxxx's tender counter, \"There's something inside you, it's hard to explain,\" feels like a perfect encapsulation of the film's juxtaposing moments of benevolence and brutality. Glass Candy's Johnny Jewel gets his hands on two tracks here, with his Desire and Chromatics projects, respectively. However, Jewel could've played a larger part: In a recent interview with Box Office Magazine, he revealed being approached by both Refn and Gosling to score the film (Glass Candy's \"Digital Versicolor\" plays a big part in Bronson), but wires were crossed, and, despite having finished \"the whole score,\" conflicting interests left Martinez with the job. It's hard not to speculate what Jewel's music could have brought to the film but Martinez's muted yet deft approach makes it hard to imagine anyone else smearing such wonderfully subtle hues across the screen. On the album's second half, Martinez's score works like a patient, engaging ambient record with a dramatic arc that works independently of the film. Keyboards plink back and forth like turn signals and human heartbeats, with atmospheres that hang in the air like ghosted taillight streaks. As things get grittier onscreen, so does the music, with industrial grindings and craggy booms slowly working their way into the mix. It's long 50 minutes to be exact and obviously not the selling point, but where other soundtracks weave bits of score around the proper songs, Martinez's vision, while challenging, smartly gets its fair shake being presented as a whole. By far the most notable thing about the Drive soundtrack is \"A Real Hero\", a collaboration between French producer College and Toronto duo Electric Youth, both of whose phones are no doubt ringing off the hook. Working as a theme and mantra for Gosling's Driver, it's a shimmering, deeply romantic track that, thanks to its repeated use in the film, sticks in your head. \"Try getting behind the wheel without hearing that 'Real Hero' song,\" a friend mentioned to me after I saw the film. Luckily, I had a fourhour slog ahead of me the next day, and while a clogged New Jersey Turnpike at noon is about as far away from a driving experience as the blinking sprawl of Los Angeles at 3 a.m., I couldn't help but feel the stitching from a phantom, scorpionemblazoned satin jacket itching at my back. "}