{"label":" RJ's Electrical Connections","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17054/homepage_large.31a4a4ed.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Icebird","title":"The Abandoned Lullaby","text":" As shaky as his output was in the years since he first set hip hop orthodoxy aside, writing RJD2 off as a total loss seems premature. The Third Hand's dippy bedroompop flopped in the way that only abrupt stylistic detours can, but when he honed that litefunk sound on last year's decentenough followup The Colossus, he seemed on his way toward actually taking it into appealing places. Factor in this year's oddball side project as the Insane Warrior, the 1980s horror soundtrack/electroprog/library music pastiche We Are the Doorways, and he's already put out a couple of solid pieces of work in the last few years that retain his adventurous nature without letting the burden of his early rep stifle him. Maybe all he really needs to do is keep working out the kinks and find a way to let his beatmaking chops translate more readily into traditional song arrangement. Plus, teaming up with a pretty good vocalist wouldn't hurt. Enter Aaron Livingston, a singer originally out of Philly who flirted with fame via a guest spot on the Roots' \"Guns Are Drawn\" and showed up on The Colossus six years later to lend his talents to \"Crumbs Off the Table\". That went so well that Livingston and RJ recorded another dozen songs under the name Icebird, and if The Abandoned Lullaby is the best piece of evidence so far to justify RJD2 Mk. II, it's also a good showcase for an eccentric singer on the verge of reaching a wide, receptive audience. Both parties click together because they're willing to let genre be an afterthought, yet they still avoid succumbing to a rootless, stylistically overreaching identity crisis. Identity crises being what they've been over RJD2's career, the fact that he's pulled together a number of familiar elements from his past repertoire is unsurprising but wellexecuted. Fans enamored with the rangy, allthings1970s blowout Since We Last Spoke will find some good moments to grab on here there's still no gymnastic drumbreak sample flipping, but RJ's geeky ear for crossgenre fusion pays off in a similarly satisfying way. The \"Move on Up\" vibe of \"Just Love Me\" and the minorkey, pianodriven skulk of \"Please, Don't\" are retrofunk 101, but their straightforwardness is driven by a marked flair for percussive arrangements that hit with more oomph than anything on his last two solo records. And his sense of ambition starts cresting on the album's dramatic, moody second half, where he indulges in the best instincts of his prog affinity to ends both icily ambient (\"The Return of Tronson\") and arenarock heavy (\"Gun for Hire\"). Livingston, meanwhile, makes for a good foil to RJ's occasionally grandiose production. There are moments where he switches from a casually conversational way of singing into a fullon jolt of unadulterated joy or frustration with Swisswatch timing. He works his raspy tenor well enough to make the moments where he drops flat, bum notes (like the quasiEgyptian chorus in \"King Tut\") more of a jokey, selfaware idiosyncrasy than actual sandbagging. Best of all, he's got enough charisma to break out of proforma neosoul roles: an optimist getting frustrated in the face of aggravating bullshit on \"Going and Going. And Going\", the desperately haunted lover on \"Spirit Ache\", the recidivist begging not to be led back into temptation on \"Please, Don't\". He doesn't have the showstopping voice or the lyrical incisiveness of a CeeLo to justify the surfacelevel Gnarls Barkley comparisons The Abandoned Lullaby might rack up and RJ's not quite at the full command of a landmark signature sound like Danger Mouse was a couple of years back, either. But if there's been a better twoman indiefunk producer/singer superduo to come out of the woodwork since \"Crazy\" dropped, I must have missed it. "}