{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17046/homepage_large.ecf3a721.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"The Drift","title":"Blue Hour","text":" A ghost hovers over instrumental rock outfit the Drift's third proper LP, Blue Hour. After 2008's Memory Drawings, the band reunited with original bassist Trevor Montgomery. But as a band member returned, another was saying goodbye: Jeff Jacobs, who primarily handled horn duties, died of cancer, giving the group his blessing to carry on without him before he passed away. The remaining members of the Drift chose not to replace him, and anyone with a working knowledge of the their back catalog thus far would understand why. He was far from just a brass sideman; the successes of Memory Drawings and 2005's debut LP Noumena were a result of not only the band's spacious dubinflected sound at the time, but also the splashes of color that Jacobs' horn work lent to it. His wide emotional vocabulary allowed his contributions to range far outside the Drift's loosely drawn lines. Jacobs was an integral key to that sound and they seem to be going for something different on Blue Hour. Save for a few delaytreated guitar lines on \"Continuum\", there's little trace of dub on the album, but what they're moving toward stylistically is less clear. The mood on Blue Hour is often understandably tense, with Montgomery's low rumbles (as well as Rich Douthit's rolling, punctuated percussion) throwing stones against guitarist/keyboardist Danny Grody's aquatic ripples. The album's opening cut, \"Dark Passage\", remains engaging as its negative space is filled and, subsequently, drained with dread, but its lack of an emotional payoff makes for something of an unfulfilled finish. That sense of building toward nothing runs through Blue Hour, where inertia takes the form of softloud climbing (the 12minute centerpiece \"The Skull Hand Smiles/May You Fare Well\") and ominous, outofplace \"Peter Gunn\"isms (early leak \"Horizon\"). The band's gift for melodic interplay is in limited supply here, so when some light finally shines in with the sad sways of \"Hello From Everywhere\", the effect is that of windows being opened in a room filled with humid air. On one hand, Blue Hour is a disappointment, especially coming off of an album as strong and promising as Memory Drawings. But the loss of a bandmate has been enough to stop other groups in their tracks. So another way to look at Blue Hour is as a document of survival, a record whose very existence shows the group's courage. It's impossible not to admire the Drift for doing anything other than packing it in. "}