{"label":" Prosthetic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17055/homepage_large.1afca81b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Skeletonwitch","title":"Forever Abomination","text":" Skeletonwitch have always been a party band, even if their cover art and song titles tells you otherwise. My first taste of the quintet came in 2006 via their brief, selfreleased Worship the Witch EP. I didn't know much about the Athens, Ohio, group but enjoyed their mix of classic Bay Area thrash and Norwegianstyle black metal it came off like Cliff Burtonera Metallica jamming with Immortal. The scruffy production, which matched the era, cemented the mix. What really hooked me, though, were the scorching dual NWOBHM lead guitars busy, catchy, and worthy of any number of bad Midwestern Viking jokes. As it happens sometimes, that first taste when they were still basically unknown was my favorite. Since then, they've played Ozzfest (and Danzig's Blackest of the Black tour), gone through a couple of drummers and bassists, shown up on Metal Swim, tightened their sound, and released three records for the Los Angeles label Prosthetic. All of these albums were good, but nothing struck a chord like Worship the Witch. That is, until this new one, the Matt Hydeproduced Forever Abomination. It's their first album with heavyhitting drummer Dustin Boltjes, but the core that drew me to the group early on is still intact guitarist Scott Hedrick, guitarist Nate Garnette, and Nate's deathgrowling brother, vocalist Chance Garnette. Under the watchful eye (and in the sweet looking, beersoaked pool) of Hyde, a Grammy winner who's also worked with Slayer, Hatebreed, No Doubt, Porno For Pyros, and Sum 41, among others, they've managed to regain their early atmospheric density, only on a larger, more stadiumready scale. It's darker and heavier than the last three, offering an icy, deep ambiance that went missing on the too cleanly layered, brittle postWorship offerings. Really, Forever is the rare example of a bigname producer actually helping a metal band progress. (Jack Endindo's dialedback approach didn't quite click with me on 2009's Breathing the Fire.) The 11song collection opens with a few seconds of pretty acoustic guitars before launching into the rest of \"This Horrifying Force (The Desire to Kill)\", a proper breakneck Skeletonwitch anthem. That quiet moment's brief, but the transition gives a good idea of the spaciousness you'll find a deeper bass sound, sturdier drums, more vibrant guitars. They also place the vocals a bit lower in the mix, which works, because in the end, it's those guitars that keep pulling you closer: the hooks on opener \"Cleaver of Soul\"; the lighterlifting notation of \"Rejoice in Misery\" and \"The Infernal Resurrection\"; the forwarddriving tradeoffs on \"Sink Beneath Insanity\"; the huge leads on \"Of Ash and Torment\" that manage to be technical, anthemic, and memorable. Outside Amon Amarth, I can't think of another band that does a better job translating classicleaning metal riffs into sugarcoated pop hooks without sacrificing heaviness or turning a blind eye to the band patches on their jean jackets. Which brings me to the beginning: Chance Garnette's mentioned the evil and despair of Forever's lyrics, and you can pick that up in his performance or via titles like \"Shredding Sacred Flesh\" and \"Cleaver of Souls\" without being able to understand the bulk of what he's saying. But outside of the studio, Skeletonwitch have never done \"mean\" convincingly. If you've read their interviews, you've seen the happy exclamation points. If you've caught them live, you know they're first and foremost a group of Ohio dudes only too happy to smoke your pot and drink your beer. There's nothing wrong with that the transparency adds another layer of enjoyability to the tracks and connects them to a long history of pageantry in metal. Basically, this is exciting, skilled, fistpumping, truetolife stuff made by goodseeming guys who, in the end, aren't afraid to laugh, goof around, or make fun of themselves. The music feels grounded and bluecollar in that sense, even with Garnette going on about our souls suffering in the fires of hell. "}