{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17079/homepage_large.c6cd24b7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Stevie Jackson","title":"(I Can't Get No) Stevie Jackson","text":" Stevie Jackson joined Belle and Sebastian about 15 years ago, and he's been playing hard to get ever since. As guitaristvocalist for Glasgow's preeminent indie pop outfit, Jackson typically contributes only a track or two per LP. While frontman Stuart Murdoch has been busy with new project God Help the Girl, and former bandmate Isobel Campbell has put out album after album with gravellyvoiced collaborator Mark Lanegan, Jackson has pretty much limited his extracurricular activities to covers, soundtrack work, and instrumental appearances. If Jackson's solo debut is overdue, though, it's also disappointingly undercooked. Sure, (I Can't Get No) Stevie Jackson sounds a lot like what Belle and Sebastian fans might expect, with tinges of 1970s singersongwriter records, bucolic late1960s British pop, and, yup, showtunes. Put together intermittently since 2006 with fellow B&S members and a few longtime friends, these 12 songs feel like whimsical larks, and Jackson's considerable charm should be able to put them over just fine in a live setting. But the record can also be too whimsical for its own good, and for most listeners, Jackson's Belle and Sebastian songs will be enough. Chalk it up, perhaps, to yet another case of a solo artist's gifts working better with a band. In the context of last year's Write About Love, Jackson's \"I'm Not Living in the Real World\" is as accomplished as it is crazy for key changes. Here, when Jackson channels Elton John while proclaiming that he's \"Pure at Heart\", tosses off literary puns over ambling \"Mellow Yellow\" psychpop, and coos, \"Along came a bigger bird/ More bigger than he,\" amid tweepop orchestration all on the same album it's a little tougher to take. When he jauntily narrates the potential pitfalls if you \"Press Send\" on an email to an object of your affection, context isn't the problem. On a musty tape somewhere, there must be a forgotten Jens Lekman song that brings this stale theme to wittier, more vivid life. That said, Jackson has long since proved himself to be more than merely an adept sideman, and he flashes glimmers of those skills here. Jittery preview track \"Try Me\" skirts the album's occasionally narrow topical concerns (two songs loosely about directors, one about a redevelopment project) and dippy fauxinnocence (\"He was my best friend at school...\"). Instead, Jackson homes in neatly on a rich, distinctive emotional state \"I got pills and I'm looking for thrills/ At the same time I want to start a family\" and an equally welldeveloped organrock sound that builds on predecessors like ? and the Mysterians, the Clean, and Love Is All. This one's definitely worth the attempt. The new album's other preview track, the stringsplashed, manyvoiced \"Man of God\", comes closest to the Jesus Christ Superstar theatricality of The Life Pursuit songs like \"Act of the Apostle\". Only appropriate, given the title. Here, though, Jackson dodges some of the new record's pitfalls with yet another droll piece of songwriting: The religious imagery turns out to be just an unlikely setting for a music fan's doomed attempt to seduce through the strength of his record collection. Thankfully, Jackson doesn't make that mistake on (I Can't Get No) Stevie Jackson. Still, there's a disconnect between this fairtomiddling solo record and the vital role its creator plays in one of the indie world's truly singular ensembles. "}