{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17067/homepage_large.a3013b8e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Prince Rama","title":"Trust Now","text":" When Pitchfork's Joe Colly reviewed Prince Rama's fourth album, Shadow Temple, he signed off by hinting that the band's psych experiments \"might become something more\" in the future. A little over a year later, Trust Now has arrived, again on Animal Collective's Paw Tracks imprint, to test out that prognosis. A few things have changed in the intervening months they've slimmed down to a duo of sisters Taraka and Nimai Larson after their fellow founding member Michael Collins went on hiatus from the group, and Scott Colburn (Sun City Girls, Arcade Fire) replaced Avey Tare and Deakin in the producers' chair. There's been a minor toughening up of the sound, with everything from the swampy keyboard work to the wailed vocal lines gaining a little more bite, but otherwise Trust Now continues in the same vein as its predecessor. For a band reportedly raised on a Hare Krishna farm and with a live show that positively reeks of patchouli oil, there's a surprising amount of bad vibes sunk into Prince Rama's music. They may give their songs titles like \"Golden Silence\" and \"Summer of Love\", but the repetitive stretches of tribal drumming and vocal incantations makes them sound like they're trying to cook up the accompaniment to a horrific Wicker Manstyle ritual. The problem is one of identity; the music doesn't swing far enough in a fullon occult direction to give a true sense of nastiness, nor does it completely bask in the hippy idealism the Larson sisters are clearly so well versed in. It's a touch too polite and apologetic, more Sabrina, the Teenage Witch than Witchfinder General. \"Trust\" is the best demonstration of the dichotomy at the heart of the band. It begins with a vocal line that intones the title of the song over and over, like we're being ushered into the most genial ritual sacrifice of all time, while squealing synth tones wail in the background. Midway through the song, it's turned into much lighter fare, with a keyboard motif that could have been ripped straight from Haha Soundera Broadcast, which picks out a poppy melody that feels at odds with the first half of the track. In fact, Prince Rama could learn something by listening to Broadcast and the Focus Group's collaborative album, Investigate Witch Cults of the Radio Age, which contains the creepy air of inventiveness that Trust Now is striving for but can't ever reach. The music here contains germs of good ideas, but too often they get frittered away through loose and indulgent jams that never go anywhere. On those Broadcast/Focus Group recordings, the musicians appeared to be immersed in the kind of folkloric tales that provide the unpleasant edge material like this needs. It's also got the kind of razorsharp sense of purpose from which Trust Now could benefit. Instead Prince Rama end up mired somewhere closer to kitsch, especially when their music meanders without much purpose on songs like \"Portaling\" or uses a corny \"boing\" sound (presumably made by a mouth harp, or a sample of one) on \"Incarnation\". Frustratingly, Trust Now doesn't advance on the better ideas from Shadow Temple, particularly the elements of dance music that occasionally surfaced. Essentially it's the core Prince Rama sound boiled down to its essence, which means anyone hoping for this band to \"become something more\" should sit this one out and hope the Larsons can finely trim their vision next time. "}