{"label":" Mom & Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17073/homepage_large.2fc3549c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rachael Maddux","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Norman OST","text":" It's been four years since Juno and seven since Garden State, which means we're due for another carefully soundtracked independent film celebrating young white folks' ability to find love despite crippling quirkiness. Right on schedule, here comes Norman, a 2010 festivalcircuit selection rolling into theaters across the country with all the proper credentials: the squarepeg protagonist (here, the titular Norman), the sweetly bumbling dalliance with an equally offkilter wouldbe soulmate (Emily, \"a girl who likes Monty Python\"), the heavyhanging bleakness of some unfortunately timed personal tragedy (the death and illness of Norman's parents). Then, of course, there's the music, a soundtrack released a few weeks before the movie's superlimited national opening. But while the names on the tracklist read with the same indieish panache as those of Garden State and Juno, the two bestselling sophomoreyear mix tapes in history, Norman takes a more focused approach. The film's score was composed and performed by Andrew Bird, a move that should shock no one faintly familiar with the classically trained multiinstrumentalist: Over the course of five solo albums, his swooping melodies and carefully built arrangements have all but pleaded to be overlaid on celluloid. Ten of his Norman tracks are original instrumental pieces that, even when taken out of their intended context (as we experienced them, unable to catch one of the movie's limited screenings before press time), fit nicely among his existing catalog. \"3:36\" is perhaps the most readilyidentifiable as a Bird song, its nervous, gnawing waves pocked with violin pizzicato and eerie whistling, his dual touchstones that he's almost always better off ditching. Here, though, they're used sparingly, maximizing their effect. When the dreadful pulse that opens first track \"Scotch and Milk\" repeats three tracks later on \"Hospital\", the ominous thrum glowers, grows heavy, then finally gives way to mournful violin pulls and plucks. That textural pushandpull defines the score, Bird's strings caustic against the smooth, nearperpetual hum of the organ (or maybe it's a hurdygurdy, or deeply distorted violin loop whatever it is, its pitiless drone is so reminiscent of Wendy Carlos' analogsynth soundtrack to The Shining that Bird seems bound to one day score a horror flick). Here, if not for the gentle, almost mischievous lope of \"The Kiss/Time and Space/Waterfall\", the title of which tells its own little story, the tension would be nearly unbearable. Bird has promised a new record out early next year, and if this collection can be considered any kind of preview, the arrangements will be darker, bolder, weirder but his songwriting, perhaps, more direct. On recent albums, especially 2009's Noble Beast, he has seemed nearly incapable of anything but lyrical abstruseness, throwing out mentions of aubergines and Cypriots like decoys, as if his cleverness would distract from his avoidance of grappling with anything more frighteningly real. Instrumentally, while \"Arcs and Coulombs\", the first of Bird's three proper songs on Norman, holds tight to brushed drums and glockenspiel (his third and fourthmostoftendeployed tricks), but its talk of candyapple lips and \"your serum in my veins\" are new, their borderline corniness forgivable for their offering of proof that Bird is capable of feeling, or at least transmitting, such a pedestrian sentiment as romantic infatuation. It seems to be the most straightforward love song he's ever turned out, at least until \"Night Sky\" comes along a bit later: \"What if we hadn't been born at the same time?/ What if you were 75 and I were nine?\" he wonders, supported only by a feverishly stroked acoustic guitar carried over from the preceding track. Nary a whistle, a pluck, nor an obscure scientific metaphor just straightup wonder at two people somehow managing to find each other amidst the whole mess of space and time. It's a new Andrew Bird, followed shortly by the old one: \"Darkmatter\", from 2007's Armchair Apocrypha, is the only Bird song not original to the soundtrack, but here it blazes in with a cinematic bravado that all but destroys its former self. Contributions from three other artists are nestled among Bird's tracks. The Blow's Khaela Maricich lends the compilation its only female voice with \"S.O.S.\", a dreamy, heavylidded cry for help: \"If you get a minute, would you come and look for me?\" \"You Are a Runner and I Am My Father's Son\", the crunching, stilted opener of Wolf Parade's 2005 LP Apologies to the Queen Mary, is reworked here into a darkly pulsing neardirge, its electric guitars pushed down, Spencer Krug's yawp subdued and accented with slinky percussion and accordion wheezes. And Chad VanGaalen's \"Rabid Bits of Time\" is carried over directly from his Soft Airplane, its mournful cello slub and lonely guitar fitting it in neatly among Bird's instrumentals, VanGaalen's ragged, exhausted bleating no doubt laid over some key moment onscreen, pushing the movie and soundtrack into its cathartic final third. A soundtrack taken apart from its movie is a funny thing, especially one working in such familiar territory as Norman. It's not hard to imagine the scenes these songs must play over on screen: here's when he walks through the halls and the other kids stare, here's when he wonders how her hair smells, here's where he wonders about the vagaries of human existence and what's the point of it all, here's where they kiss, here's where they cry. Maybe it's that easy; maybe it's not. At the very least, it's beautiful. "}