{"label":" Fool's Gold","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17083/homepage_large.4ea68d1d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Cubic Zirconia","title":"Follow Your Heart","text":" Fakediamond punchlines aside and on a label called Fool's Gold, no less there's something hard to shake about the allsurface nature of Cubic Zirconia's floss. Here's a group from New York that shoots for a Basement Jaxxcaliber house/funk crossover, one that rides on the presence of a singer who paid her dues alongside Detroit rap'n'B artists Platinum Pied Pipers, mutantdisco purveyors the Phenomenal Handclap Band, and postdubstep architect Kingdom. Cubic Zirconia set their sights on a genredemolishing, universal clubhopper soundtrack that's aimed to fuse alteredstate headrush and restless libido in ways that made those two sensations feel inseparable. And after surveying the crowded field of allpurpose posthiphop/postelectro dance music, they set about figuring out what parts to draw from to synthesize it all into the only album in the field that anybody would need to own. The end result of all this is Follow Your Heart, and it's the most frustrating kind of retropastiche. This is one of those albums that attempts to fuse multiple instances of the familiar instead of trying to coax underheard and unusual ideas out of a single deeper vein. There's a dominant, vaguely 1980s feel about it, and even if there's some loosely hinted signs of picking up a particular inspiration from the big three midAmerican hotspots of the era Minneapolis, Detroit, and Chicago they're rolled out with what feels like the musical equivalent of received wisdom, letting experienced listeners fill in the blanks in the hope that the blanks aren't the only thing they hear. You like frenetic, highconcept synthesized funk à la Prince? See if you can cope with the way \"Freebase You\" and \"Runnin' in and Out of Love\" siphon it into a nuancefree piledriver. Think acid/techno fusion is interesting? The title track provides the absolute basic clichés of that potential and lets it ride out on autopilot. You want an aloof, slightly off singer muttering comeons and empty debauched phraseology over electro homages that don't sound much different as 30year throwbacks than they did as 20year throwbacks? \"Cherry Nights\" and \"Yellow Spaceship Pt. 2\" have you covered. The singer in question, Tiombe Lockhart, is not untalented there are some flashes of charisma and fuckwhatyouthink oddness that sneak through during odd moments in Follow Your Heart. But there's this sort of semiintentional Teflon aloofness to her voice, and for the most part her notes just kind of drone out instead of soaring or piercing or hitting with any real impact. For most singers, that detached, flat, and affectless tendency can sound either cool or empty depending on the surrounding production. So when it's hard to tell how much depth the backing track's supposed to have, it's also hard to suss out any real emotion from that proforma deadpan, whether she's quipping about \"writing a neosoul song\" on the exact opposite thereof in electro workout \"Darko\" or making lovestruck euphoria sound mildly diverting on \"Take Me High\". It only becomes more obvious when she's pitted against someone with some chops (Bilal providing subtly rich harmonies on \"Night or Day\") or an actual personality (DâmFunk going allout on \"I Got What You Need\"). And when you pair that voice and those beats with similarly placeholderfeeling lyrics \"Summertime\" actually follows up the couplet, \"Never makes me feel bad/ Never makes me feel sad,\" with the line, \"Every time I see you my heart skips a beat\" it's enough to make you wonder if trendy NYC dance music's found a way to run on aggregators. "}