{"label":" Constellation","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17074/homepage_large.d1e05c22.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Sandro Perri","title":"Impossible Spaces","text":" Sandro Perri has never shied away from expressing his admiration for Arthur Russell; among the highlights of the Toronto musician/producer's decadepluslong career was a distended, 21minute reinterpretation of Russell's already lengthy Dinosaur disco classic \"Kiss Me Again\". But as Perri's discography has pluralized and diversified in unexpected ways, Russell has become less of a direct musical influence than an inspirational model of following one's muse across dance, avantgarde, and rootsrock boundaries, and marking those stylistic shifts with different, highly evocative aliases. Since first establishing himself in the early 2000s as a producer of aquatic, cerebral techno under the Polmo Polpo moniker, Perri has variously indulged his interest in Nigerian juju and shantytown funk with onealbum wonders Glissandro 70 and dubby disco as Dot Wiggin. But since 2007, he's been releasing albums under his own name, signaling a singersongwriterly shift that foregrounds Perri's considerable talents as a pedalsteel guitarist and fondness for 1970s AMradio pop, even going so far as to faithfully cover Fleetwood Mac's \"Dreams\" and Harry Nilsson's \"Everybody's Talkin'\". Scanning the tracklist on Perri's new album, Impossible Spaces, you're first greeted with another familiar title: \"Changes\". But while the song that bears its name turns out not to be a version of either the David Bowie classic or the Black Sabbath piano ballad, Perri at the very least embraces the root sentiment behind that wellworn title. Though \"Changes\" picks up where 2007's tropically tranquil Tiny Mirrors left off, there are some immediately noticeable developments: Perri's plainspoken voice is several inches higher in the mix, and the sound has been thickened considerably by warm organ tones and more scabrous electricguitar lines, while drummer Dan Gaucher sounds like he's itching to kick into a more robust backbeat. But then after three and a half minutes of stopstart teases, \"Changes\" does just that, by shifting into a glorious instrumental coda powered by a chugging Afrofunk groove and analogsynth starbursts that feels like an ecstatic, outofbodyexperience answer to the more tentative passage that preceded it. \"Changes\" effectively confirms Impossible Spaces as the first Sandro Perri release to truly synthesize his myriad musical interests and place equal emphasis on rhythm, texture, and melody. With Perri backed once again by a coterie of Toronto improvscene all stars who provide him with all the queasylistening sophistication of a more inebriated Sea and Cake or a less spastic Dirty Projectors the album strikes an uncanny balance between sounding ambitiously executed and completely offthecuff; an epic of both accident and design. Perri isn't afraid to push his song lengths past the sevenminute mark (or thematically link shorter tracks into twopart suites), but Impossible Spaces never feels taxing or overwrought. Rather, extended and exceedingly patient pieces like the woodwindpowered \"How Will I?\" and the exquisite 10minute beast \"Wolfman\" yield a sustained thrill of discovery as, with each new verse, they wind and wander into an everdislocating swirl of brass, flutes, electric guitar, strings, and synth drones. Throughout it all, Perri's invariably calm tenor assumes the reassuring presence of a tour guide who won't tell you where you're going but ensures you pass through safely: He rarely sings his verse melodies in any kind of formalized cadence but always returns to a familiar chorus refrain at just the right time to help you get reoriented. In that sense, Impossible Spaces isn't simply the most accessible and immediately rewarding album to bear Sandro Perri's name, it also serves as a handy musical roadmap to its maker's sinuous creative course. "}