{"label":" Ugly Edits","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17084/homepage_large.2c1f20d9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Theo Parrish","title":"Uget","text":" It's hard to imagine disco music (much less modern dance music and hiphop) without the edit, wherein songs had their choice drum breaks extended, were trimmed of excess, or looped for greater duration and danceability. Or as one DJ put it to me, edits arose from the pleasure principle, that \"when you hear something great, you want it to continue.\" Early disco DJs used them as secret weapons for their dancefloors, as did hiphop's pioneers, spinning familiar songs into alternate universes, but after the heyday of Chicago house masters like Ron Hardy and Frankie Knuckles, the edit as a DJ tool faded from view. While London's DJ Harvey dropped his series of \"Black Cock\" edits in the mid1990s, it was when Detroit producer Theo Parrish's selfdeemed \"ugly\" edits (complete with slapdash spraypainted labels) lurched into view at the turn of the 21st century that the trend came back in full force. Rather than resort to using scalpel and cutting block, the technology allowed dancefloor professionals like Prins Thomas, Pilooski, and even James Murphy to drop such reconfigured tunes. It also allowed newbies and bedroom DJs alike to make their own edits, albeit to diminishing returns. Theo Parrish's limited disco edits remain in high demand, getting bootlegged repeatedly (a bootleg of a bootleg?) and going for ludicrous sums online. And while this collection has neither \"Ugly Edits\" nor Theo Parrish's name anywhere on the art, the handy 2xCD set compiles the first eight editions of those edits released over a threeyear period. It's not just an affordable compendium of the wiggly, playful, grimy, and irreducible disco edits the man had his way with, but also a fine gateway into his wholly idiosyncratic soundworld, suggesting a common ground between Larry Levan and Brion Gysin. Always an inscrutable musicmaker, with productions eschewing the distinctions erected between house, jazz, funk, avantgarde electronic, and soul music, all of Parrish's traits can be heard in the perfect opening track, a woozy, spiraling edit of Jill Scott's \"Slowly Surely\" from her 2000 debut album. Starting with a glitching CD, tocking drum machine, and a voicemail from the singer herself, she thanks him for a CD that she has yet to listen to. She talks of her overprotective manager but that polite backpedal transforms into a gently cycling whispered plaint: \"I just don't know where I should go.\" Pillowy soft chords lift and drift back down; a woodblock and some other random percussive moments get foregrounded only to dissipate. Yet somehow 12 of the most effervescent minutes in house music have surely drifted past. The set's bread and butter is in how Parrish dices and lengthens funk and soul cuts by acts such as the Dells, Minnie Riperton, Willie Hutch, Funkadelic, and Kool & the Gang. He takes Sylvester's \"Dance\" and boils it down to rubbery bassline, incessant hihat, and a pickup line for its first three minutes before the dancefloor release comes. In teasing out Sugarhill Gang's lateperiod joint \"Hot Hot Summer Day\", he lobs off all their wack rapping and instead elevates the meltedbutter backing vocals from the last third of the song, spinning a nineminute epic out of it. Which is not to say he emphasizes only the bright, dancefloorfriendly aspects of tracks. When he takes incidental music from Quincy Jones's score for The Color Purple, a clanging polyrhythmic vocal chant dissolves into a disquieting stab of strings. In reworking slick boogie band GQ's \"Lies\", he offsets a loop about \"a party going on\" with a man agonizing, \"I got to know why,\" to a cheating woman. On the easily recognizable Harold Melvin and the Blue Notes' PhillySoul classic, \"The Love I Lost\", Parrish drops us midway into the track. He makes Teddy Pendergrass' honeyed yet gritty vocals bump against the sparse organ and guitar opening of the song (with plenty of vinyl crackle at the edges) before dumping both atop the propulsive middle section. What makes its sloppy nine minutes work is how he swings the equalization to extremes on every component, finding new spaces and juxtapositions where there previously were none. What should be familiar and mere repetition is anything but. As he once told Resident Advisor: \"Repetition kind of sets a certain mass in a song… then there's little bits that come in and out and these changes that kinda shift on that pivot. This is where I go in my head sometimes… shifting, spinning, all kinds of stuff.\" Consider these 18 tracks, then, the results of Parrish's everspinning musical centrifuge. "}