{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17093/homepage_large.4466506e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"FAC. DANCE: Factory Records 12\" Mixes & Rarities 1980-1987","text":" What does dance music sound like when it's made by people who seem slightly worried about the whole idea of dancing? What about people who are totally passionate about dance music even if it's not their native language, who can tackle it with the fearlessness of musicians who love something but aren't of it? Stateside, the music of Talking Heads is one answer. Along with a host of American artists from the same time, they carved out a unique interstice between rock and dance not quite one or the other. Fac. Dance goes some way to answering those questions from the UK's perspective, and it's probably no coincidence that some of it mines the same vein as Talking Heads before they discovered M.O.R. A collection of singles from (mostly) the early days of Factory Records, it's a glimpse of world where former wallflowers, whether onetime punks, or oneman avant acts suddenly found the possibilities of disco and postdisco club music too enticing to ignore. For some, those possibilities were purely musical, a new set of compositional ideas to explore and formal rules to bend or break. On their 1985 single \"Boss Toyota Trouble\", Manchester postpunks Biting Tongues, featuring future members of Simply Red, Yargo, and 808 State, sound like an industrial band who got its wigs flipped by Middle Eastern music and Ethiopian jazz and gamelan, but who couldn't quite shake the perversity that leads people to form industrial bands in the first place. Two inclusions from the Durutti Column are just jittery and uptempo variations on Vini Reilly's usual plangent and gorgeous brand of guitarbased instrumental music, seeming to have wandered in from a completely different compilation. In each case, the communal qualities of dance music get shortcircuited, in both interesting and \"interesting\" ways, by artists too individualist to join any club night that'd have them as a member. And sometimes this formalist fucking around just leads to jokes that burn themselves as quickly as you'd expect. Experimental jazzrock group Blurt founded by poet/puppeteer Ted Milton, for example, certainly earn their name, their 1980 track \"Puppeteer\" featuring an early hiphop groove where the MC is replaced by an imitation of a mentally ill ranter who owns a cheap saxophone. It's a curious artifact of one of those rare moments when bands felt the compulsion to experiment with whatever was in the cultural air around them, but ultimately that's all it is, like a lot of the stuff collected here to pad things out to two discs (the inclusion of such tracks when the comp has nothing by New Order doesn't help). For other Factory artists, though, dance music became both an experiment in new sounds and their first real attempt to make records that met the needs of an audience who wanted to do more than nod with approval at the innovation on display. This is the impulse that animates the bulk of Fac. Dance, and it's why the compilation is worth hearing. Dance music can be many things, but to actually be dance music, it's got to be, you know, funky. You can't impede the groove, whether out of nervousness or perversity or indifference. What's most surprising is how many of these artists, a lot of them reared more on the pogo than the hustle, made these tracks into realdeal dance music that also served as experimental tape collages or extended trancerock jams. Section 25's legendary but only intermittently availableforpurchase 1984 BSide \"Looking From a Hilltop (Megamix)\" is, on one level, pure streetlevel electro of the glassy and inhuman sort that was everywhere in the early 1980s. But the tension comes from the way it seamlessly weaves in the abrasive, clanging postpunk Factory was first known for, jolting you out of dancefloor hypnosis without disturbing that groove. Section 25 and a few other Factory artists also helped not to break but to extend the rules enough to help create the next wave of dance. It's telling that Fac. Dance cuts off at 1987, a year before acid house took parts of Factory's later, compulsive, electrodriven sound and remade the dance mainstream. However outthere or abrasive it gets, much of Fac. Dance is also stuff that still worked for clubbers, mostly young ones hungry for something new, in New York and Detroit as much as Manchester and London, kids who saw group revelry as the whole point of pop. Note, for example, how many tracks here are the \"New York Mix\" version, with Factory also drafting in U.S. producers like Jellybean Benitez as the label's records became international DJ tools and its artists began making pilgrimages to New York studios to learn the ropes, often leaving any lingering trace of their punk past behind. One representative and truly obscure American inclusion, the Hood's 1987 cut \"Salvation! (Nitromix)\" is pure early freestyle/electro, that simultaneously most machinedriven and most pop brand of mid80s dance, denigrated by old heads but integral to all the house and techno tweaks that would follow. Much of Fac. Dance probably wasn't considered \"true\" dance music by certain disco aesthetes at the time. But its fearlessness, its untrueness, helped in a small way to invent the future we're still living through. "}