{"label":" Maybach","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17113/homepage_large.da05ae4d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Meek Mill","title":"Dreamchasers","text":" Here's the biggest surprise in rap this year: Its preeminent tastemaker is Rick Ross. Imagine that being true in 2009, when, after being outed as an excorrections officer, Ross got roped into a childish feud with 50 Cent, who rediscovered his ability to ruffle the feathers of his overly serious peers, while blogs and commenters gleefully cackled along. That Ross emerged from the embarrassing fracas to become one of the few largerthanlife stars in the game was shocking enough, but now his stamp of approval alone is enough to make, or salvage, careers. Wale, who was left for dead by the major label system following his disastrous first album, was scooped up by Ross after a rather pedestrian appearance on Waka Flocka Flame's smash hit \"No Hands\" and is now poised to sell hundreds of thousands of copies of his upcoming album. But Ross' most intriguing protégé is the young (though by no means rookie) Philadelphia street rapper Meek Mill, a fact not lost on Ross, who saw fit to include himself on both of Meek's radio singles from this year. Being from Philly, it's easy to see the lineage of exRocAFella underlings State Property in Meek's excitable, eager shout. But we're a long way from 2002, and there's a distinctly Southern bent to his rapping that has helped him rise to prominence during the reign of Lex Luger. Meek still carries an air of detached cool that is no doubt filtered down from JayZ, but the rapper that he often resembles is the currently imprisoned Lil' Boosie. Though his music isn't as emotionally raw as Boosie's, both rappers engage the listener on a purely visceral level, primarily through deliveries that seem on the verge of careening off the rails. The ability to connect in this manner is something that can't be taught, or even really developed. An untold number of rappers have tried to get over on energy and the sheer force of their charisma alone, but certain guys DMX, Waka, Boosie have an innate ability to connect with their audiences in a way that can leave nonbelievers, especially ones who privilege lyricism, baffled. Sometimes pro scouts will watch an athlete and say that the player has \"it\" well, Meek Mill, at least in this regard, has \"it.\" Dreamchasers  coming after the relative success of singles \"Tupac Back\" and \"Ima Boss\", and with DJ Drama on foghorn duties is easily the biggest solo release of Meek's career, and it ends up serving a dual purpose. On the one hand, it easily showcases how deep his talent runs and how versatile an artist he can be. On the other, it functions as a blueprint for exactly what kind of rap music he should and should not be focused on making as his career moves forward. Let's start with the disappointing stuff. The tape is littered with beats either produced by Lex Luger or by people copying Lex Luger, and while that sound is now minted and unavoidable, Meek Mill isn't a rapper that needs to be working off the template. \"Ima Boss\", which is also included on the tape, is evidence enough that Meek can bark his way onto the radio without having to fall back on Luger's lurching productions. Meek doesn't sound bad on those songs, per say, but the highlights of the tape prove just how unnecessary the generics are. For someone who doesn't try and dazzle with his lyrics, he possesses an exceptional eye for telling stories on both a macro and micro level. \"Middle of Da Summer\", for instance, finds Meek using the season as a frame for sketching a portrait of how his city revolved around him as he grew into a life of crime. \"Tony Story\" is not only one of the most vivid story raps in recent memory, but its plot and development are so engrossing on a cinematic level that it should give David Simon pause. And then there's the title track, with a beat straight out of the Clams Casino school of \"soulful\" and featuring a particularly devastating guest shot from Beanie Sigel, which transcends the trappings of rote inspirational ploys via Meek's sober and realistic rendering of the life of a struggling rapper. Meek is being groomed for rap stardom, and the genre would be better off if he were able to get there. But while his proximity to Rick Ross has accelerated his career and will continue to open doors for his art, it's important for him to remember that he's not Ross and doesn't need to be. There are plenty of midtier rappers willing to merely ride out Lex Luger's wave, but Meek has enough dimensions to be in it for the long haul. "}