{"label":" West Palm Beotch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17125/homepage_large.defbad46.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Weird Wives","title":"Some Motherfuckers Gonna Be Walking 'Round With a Size 9 Diehard up Their Ass...","text":" A couple of dudes from Surfer Blood have an abrasive, noiserock side project? Of course a couple of dudes from Surfer Blood have an abrasive, noiserock side project: while Astro Coast derived much of its strength from mastering a very narrow set of alt/indie touchstones Pavement, Weezer, Built to Spill, all ca. 1994 you had to figure such intense focus was a conscious choice to hide their freak flags rather than hard evidence that they didn't have any to begin with. The funny thing about Weird Wives which includes SB guitarist Thomas Fekete, bassist Brian Black, and former tour percussionist Marcos Marchesani is that they don't really have to travel all that far to get to the grimier confines of Some Motherfuckers Gonna Be Walking 'Round With a Size 9 Diehard up Their Ass, Cause Apparently They Ain't Never Seen a Short AC Man Get Bad Ass on Methadone. Just turn the radio dial a little to the left from your mainstream altrock station or wait out the next the commercial break of \"120 Minutes\" for the likes of the Jesus Lizard or Butthole Surfers to make their brief flirtations with mainstream attention. Surely, Weird Wives' hearts are in the right place here, but Some Motherfuckers  turns out to be the kind of record where you can see where its creators' interests lie and, unfortunately, where their expertise does as well. At the very least, this isn't some sort of bid to totally negate Surfer Blood's populist charm for acceptance from the academics and armcrossers. Everything from the album title to Weird Wives' website to the cover art and the names of most of the songs themselves (\"Fresca\", \"Predator 4\"), and… well, you'd be forgiven for thinking this was a chillwave record. At some points, it sorta is: Instrumentals \"Alone Times\" and \"Peak Commute\" feature the kind of drippy, amniotic keyboard textures signifying a greyscale rendering of Black Moth Super Rainbow. And for the most part, Weird Wives maintain a loose grind, most of Some Motherfuckers  cycling through a fourbar pivot where the band locked in and decided to turn it into a fourminute jam. But while there's plenty of feedback splatter, drone, and flattedfifth skronk, what Weird Wives lack above all else is a sense of true aggression or purpose. Or at least some impression of danger: this is the sort of thing that works best when something feels like it's at stake, whether it's a show that's verging on police intervention or the sonic excavation of an ugly, malignant tumor that simply couldn't stay inside of its host. Hell, maybe this slays live, and their earlier singles did show some fangs, but Weird Wives' brute force runs up against reverb that deadens Some Motherfuckers like so much pink, puffy insulation. The occasional hook does exist the fretboardcorroding riff of \"Plastic Masks\", the headbanger repetition driving \"Michaels\", and heck, the grotty, downstroking postpunk of \"Predator 4\" recalls an ornery Interpol jacked on truckstop coffee or speed. But they're only hooky within the context of Some Motherfuckers. Of course, melody isn't paramount in this realm, and you could troubleshoot in the form of a compelling frontman, but Nick Klein (a Weird Wife not from Surfer Blood) sounds uncertain that he's even up for the job. His megaphone yawps blend in just fine with the surrounding sheetmetal timbres, and the occasional lyric you can make out \"building new homes\" on \"Gila\", \"It's gonna be one of those nights again\" on \"Predator 4\" don't really accumulate much tension out of their repetition and instead just sit as vaguely ominous placeholders. But how much of Some Motherfuckers itself is supposed to be a vaguely ominous placeholder instead of a definitive statement from a popular band's side project? That's tougher to parse it's easy to understand why Weird Wives felt the desire to make a record like Some Motherfuckers, less so to understand why they felt the need to share it. "}