{"label":" Strange Lane","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17117/homepage_large.b9a5d768.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Young Bleed","title":"Preserved","text":" The No Limit record label has long been treated with a patronizing condescension from critics, although in much of the country, the label's stars were the biggest and most influential of their era. Baton Rouge's Young Bleed was one of Master P's many late1990s marketing successes. 1998's My Balls and My Word sold half a million copies not Mystikallevels, but certainly a respectable number for a 20yearold rapper advertised solely in No Limit liner notes and the pages of Murder Dog magazine. Since that time, Young Bleed has continued to release material, with his trademark laconic delivery effortlessly masking suave precision. Now his alliance with Tech N9ne's Strange Music label has found the rapper releasing his best collection of songs since 1999's Priority Records release My Own. Preserved could easily describe Young Bleed's loyalty to the reliable sound of his earliest work. Because the sound is such an unmined era in rap history, it is a comforting approach to anyone who fondly remembers the countryfried grap of \"How You Do That\". Leadoff track \"Put Your Stamp on It\", which was actually released in YouTubeonly format back in 2006, is an easy standout, with its nonchalant swagger. Although \"Make Em Say Ugh\" might give dilettantes the notion that No Limit was all aggressive energy, raw and explosive, Young Bleed was always at his strongest with the kind of strutting restraint on display here. The variety of production within that framework makes Preserved an especially interesting listen. Lead single \"Holla at Uh Dog\" is built upon bongos and an exotic flute loop. The way it injects the music video's swamp setting with a particular magic is representative of Bleed's approach as whole: giving the everyday or the cliché a mythical significance. \"It's Nut'n\" Bleed often writes his track titles out phonetically is one of the record's more adventurous beats. Along with stammering horns, the production is all texture, layered moneycounting machines and clattering drums giving it the feel of a factory at fulltilt; it is like a ghost of the record's implied setting, the postindustrial landscape of neighborhoods and cities of the economically abandoned. \"Call the Police\", meanwhile, places the album in a specific geography, with its accordionaccompanied zydeco groove, while \"City Uh God\" has an extremely effective livemusic feel with its strummed guitars. Only \"Wall Uh Fame\", which has a Lupe Fiascoesque \"inspirational\" melody, breaks the record's general mood, aiming for emotional transcendence a bit too blatantly. Of course, it's Young Bleed himself who primarily carries the record by focusing the listener's attention to his lyrics. Fans of Curren$y might find something to like here; Bleed's flow has always utilized a similarly slick, imperturbable delivery to buttress more intricately musical rhythms and rhyme schemes. His persona, however, differs considerably from Curren$y's newer incarnation as a jetsetting stoner; Bleed emphasizes the individualism, agency, and nobility of the street soldier, weaving a universal story of hustle and struggle through implied, writerly details and a sixth sense for style. Preserved could as easily refer to his stylistic approach as the quality of his output, which remains high 13 years into the game. "}