{"label":" Dial","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17122/homepage_large.341053fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Roman Flügel","title":"Fatty Folders","text":" Techno thrives on agendas. Whether innovation, futurism, rebellion, or austerity, such creative constraints help rein in the limitless possibilities of synthesizers and samplers. Roman Flügel is not exempt from this. A veteran of leftfield electronic production, Flügel has released professional DJ mixes and collaborated on a jazz/techno hybrid; he works under different aliases (Soylent Green, with collaborator Jörn Wuttke in Acid Jesus and Holy Garage) for varying styles. (Several years ago he made waves with his \"Dirty Dutch\" anthem, \"Geht's Noch?\".) Many of his releases are 12\" singles, utilitarian in purpose if not sound. So naturally one of the greatest aspects of Flügel's debut LP under his given name, Fatty Folders, is how untethered and adrift it is. This is not to say that Folders is experimental, just that it's difficult to place. As best I can tell, Flügel has no overriding purpose other than to produce gummy techno, the kind that sticks to the roof of your mouth (and the kind you happily leave up there). Flügel has seen a decadeplus of singles, collaborations, and live sets receive nearunanimous praise. His 12\"s, while diverse, have tended toward the mechanistic and throbbing, though he's always been slightly out of step with his contemporaries in the German scene, eschewing the severe austerity of Ostgut Ton and the lush minimalism of Traum. (Dial, a Hamburgbased label whose releases often seem rote and plain before revealing intricacies, is as good a home as any for Flügel.) Folders collects a handful of tracks from recent EPs and singles but offers mostly new material and, as such, stands as the most accessible and robust barometer of his work to date. Folders doesn't offer any kind of narrative not of Flügel's career, not of a broader music scene, not even intraalbum. On display instead is the sheer variety of sounds Flügel conjures, and how vibrant they seem in his arrangements. If Flügel has a trick though he is not really the type of producer who relies on them it's saving his tiniest, most erudite melodies for his bangers and getting bigeyed and starry during his softer moments. \"The Improviser\" falls into the former category, its rude, burping bass barely ceding any ground to the dubby vibraphone sounds that sneak in. On the other end of the spectrum, the panning, glowing sunrays of \"Krautus\" would be at home on any Field record, and \"Don't Break My Heart\" sounds like a pleasant Saturday morning in a clock repair shop. If there's one true monster track on Folders, it's the previously released \"How to Spread Lies\", a patient, autumnal midtempo caress that relies equally on a descending piano melody and a subtle, fournote bassline. That it's been out for over a year won't matter to anyone but the most vigilant Flügel fans. (Considering both \"Lies\" and \"Geht's Noch?\", it would be somewhat ironic if the versatile, understated Flügel were remembered mostly for a few standout tracks.) Fatty Folders is a summation of Flügel's career not in sound but in scope: It's multifaceted, rich, and cagey. He's worth the investment for casual techno fans, even if you only have time for the CliffsNotes. "}