{"label":" R&S","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17144/homepage_large.5a530362.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"IOTDXI","text":" Of all the great hubs for forwardthinking bass music the past half decade (see: Hotflush, Hyperdub, Punchdrunk, Hessle), Belgianborn, Londonbased R&S Records has the deepest roots. Since its founding in 1984, artists like Model 500, Joey Beltram and Aphex Twin have roosted there; its logo was parodied by London's queer disco party Horse Meat Disco. When the label returned from an absence in 2006 and set up shop in London, bass music was a natural focus. Concentrating on singles and EPs, the label has since released some of the most adventurous material by James Blake, Untold, and Lone. IOTDXI is a 2xCD/3xLP compilation that collects highlights from the past 18 months and, as is the custom these days, presents 10 exclusive tracks as well. Everyone (including myself) has pontificated about the spreading tendrils of bass music, but sometimes it feels less like evolution and more like insects scattering after a rock's been lifted. The fervor with which the bass community has adopted deep Chicago house, Berlin minimal, and Detroit techno has begun to feel like an abandonment of purpose. What's most refreshing about IOTDXI is listening to a group of artists who have largely clung to quick syncopation, mildly aggressive bass, and arrested vocal samples. High praise: The highlights disc contains a handful of songs so familiar they threaten tedium. Blake's \"CMYK\", Lone's \"Coreshine Voodoo\", and Pariah's \"Orpheus\" form a potent trio in the middle of the first disc; anyone who hasn't worn their bytes thin on mixes and DJ sets the past two years is encouraged to do so here. The disc is better, perhaps, at reminding us of the young talent R&S has put to wax. Cloud Boat offers sighing dubstep heartbreak on \"Lions on the Beach\" (and is noticeably absent from the exclusives disc), while the lightly whipped synthpop of Vondelpark's \"Camels\" feels refreshing at the close of the first disc. Appending an exclusives disc to a retrospective has become common practice for electronic music labels, but I wonder if a gametheory course or two wouldn't help them better incentivize their artists. Knowing that the label will be judged, not the artists, seems like a surefire way to collect the fourthbest track sitting on every producer's hard drive. (Another problem, of course, is that these exclusives sit opposite the producers' best by design.) R&S has enough talent on the roster to remain appealing. Lone places piano house in a blender on \"Cobra\". Blawan returns to form after his disappointing \"What You Do With What You Have\" single, offering aggressive, hoofed dubstep. The curious Space Dimension Controller apply lush, loungey tempos to analog video game patter. You'd be right to assume that your collection doesn't need Oneohtrix Point Never's gassy remix of \"Orpheus\" or the Chain's techy, mundane \"Suffer for Your Art\". We can safely write these off as consequences of format, because the overriding message that IOTDXI delivers is that R&S is a healthy, engaged label equally capable of housing established talents and coaxing out fresh ones. If there's no explicit sense of direction or momentum, perhaps that's because R&S understands permanence more than most of its peers. "}