{"label":" Universal Republic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17137/homepage_large.782ca7d9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Florence and the Machine","title":"Ceremonials","text":" When I first saw Florence and the Machine two years ago at New York's cozy and beloved Bowery Ballroom, leader Florence Welch's voice was simply too loud for the room. She sounded massive, but shrill. Overpowering. If the show took place in an XMen movie, the wind gushing from Welch's lungs would have propelled several patrons smashing through the Bowery's back window onto Delancey Street. The next time I encountered That Voice, it was five months later, in the relatively gigantic Terminal 5 on Manhattan's far west side. And while that venue is often knocked for its booming, detailabolishing acoustics, and concreteslab atmosphere, it was a much better fit for Welch, who hopped, ran, and wailed while 3,000 giddy fans looked on, awestruck. For this band and this singer, nothing could be too big. Or so it seemed. Growing up, Welch was met with stern eyes when she was caught singing her favorite hymns with a bit too much verve. Her unbridled talent is the type of thing producers of TV singing contests fantasize about. It's soulful. It's instant. It's blaring. On \"American Idol\", contestants like Welch are invariably deemed \"quirky\" and doomed to runnerup status. And though Welch is a more convincing Artist than even the best \"Idol\" has to offer, make no mistake that her voicefirst delivery is perfectly tailored for a generation who grew up judging singers as much as they listened to them. Even the hopelessly hip crowd that showed up to see Welch at Vice's Creators Project event last month saved one of their biggest ovations for the moment when she held out one piercing note for an exaggerated period of time a primal sign of skill that banks on nothing less than sheer audacity. The same can be said of Florence and the Machine's second album, Ceremonials, which can feel like Welch simply holding out a single note at top volume for an hour. On paper, the album takes a wise path. After trying out a few different producers and styles garagepop; vampy twinklepop; and tribal, mysticpop on her debut, Lungs, Welch settles almost exclusively on the latter for Ceremonials, bringing along producer Paul Epworth, who was so good at the mystic stuff on the first record, to oversee the whole thing. So what we get is Florence trying very hard to top the gargantuan drums and cascading harps and chestthumping choruses of Lungs hits like \"Cosmic Love\" and \"Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up)\" on damn near every song. Instead of Lungs' largely charming yet discombobulating diversity, Ceremonials suffers from a repetitiveness that's akin to looking at a skyline filled with 100story behemoths linedup one after the other, blocking out everything but their own size. Some of these world wonders stand tall despite their surroundings. First single \"Shake It Out\", a stadiumwilling anthem about getting past one's troubles, sets a new high for this group. As does the similarly barreling \"No Light, No Light\", which is one of the few tracks where Welch sets aside her usual flighty, dreamy, gothy lyrical goto's ghosts, graveyards, devils, angels, myths, drowning for something a bit more personal. \"Would you leave me, if I told you what I'd become,\" she sings during the track's magisterial bridge, \"'Cause it's so easy to sing it to a crowd/ But it's so hard, my love/ To say it to you out loud.\" The lines double as a snippet of selfcriticism; perhaps Welch finds it \"so easy\" to sing her tunes to thousands because they often lack an individual touch that could send them even further skyward the same touch that comes so naturally to fellow UK chart queen Adele. But by the midway point of the LP, its endless crescendos start bleeding into each other, and the loudness soon tires itself out. The few tracks that deviate from the heavensbrokenopen formula hardly curb frustrations. The haughty \"Breaking Down\" could be an outtake from MGMT's careerstalling Congratulations, dirgey \"Seven Devils\" aims for Beelzebub but is about as haunting as a toddler with a pitchfork. In what's becoming an increasingly annoying problem in this era of iTunes bonus tracks and myriad deluxe editions, it's the extras not included on the proper album that offer reasonable outs for Florence's Big issues. \"Remain Nameless\" replaces the record's corporaterock drums and overzealous whoosh with an electronic minimalism similar to Welch's pals the xx. The song's allowed to breathe, and is all the better for it. Other bonuses include a few demos of some of the record's huger cuts (and the term \"demo\" is relative here these strippedback tracks are still pristine). Backed by only acoustic instrumentation, we finally hear the creases in Welch's voice that the album whitewashes at every turn. \"I don't want your future, don't need your past/ One bright moment, is all I ask,\" sings Welch on choiraided closer \"Leave My Body\". Ceremonials is so hellbent on providing such \"bright moments\" that flash of overwhelming emotion resulting from rampedup strings or a frantic harp or a particularly audacious vocal run that it never zooms out to consider its own listenability. Welch is 25, and she's likely chuffed at the thought of bringing these massive songs to equally immense crowds at festivals all over the world for the next two years. And that's where many of these tracks will have the greatest chance to thrive in the open, with heads as far as one can see. On record, though, too much is crushed by blind ambition. "}