{"label":" Sargent House","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17146/homepage_large.60f3205e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Russian Circles","title":"Empros","text":" A balancing act on a cosmic scale, Empros the fourth LP from mostly instrumental Chicago trio Russian Circles marries light to dark, order to chaos. Empros swings from the exceedingly beautiful to the punishingly physical in seconds flat. Every note on Empros is its right place, every surface scrapedup just so; a recent Decibel writeup found bassist Brian Cook claiming he'd never make another record \"from the ground up\" like the meticulously constructed Empros. Shame, that; as on 2009's swarmedwithstrings Geneva, the expanse charted by the grandiose Empros is very vast indeed. Building on the strides they made on Geneva's adventurous first half, Russian Circles complicate the driftandbuild of most postrock, injecting craggy climaxes, letting the low end take the lead. Highlight \"Mlàdek\" finds a rousing, almost Broken Social Scenestyle guitar chug careening headlong into a patch of black metalinspired ballast; the shift in tone's a bit jarring, but considering the disparity of styles at play, the transition's pretty flawless. Empros' best moments the snowdrift strings that blow across the end of \"Schiphol\" and into \"Atackla\", the patch cord static and drums that open \"Batu,\" the aforementioned \"Mlàdek\" assault find some little sliver of gorgeousness overwhelmed by some orbitupsetting rumble from Cook or some outfromnowhere turnaround from drummer Dave Turncrantz. Complexity for its own sake muddled the Circles' first few LPs a bit; Empros, like Geneva before it, is less prone to wriggle, more likely to lunge, each move bigger than its last. That increased compositional confidence gives each move they make that much more heft, songs charging eagerly towards their second acts, then dizzyingly doubling back. Still, with most of these tunes hinging around some staggeringly huge midsong wallop, once you've traveled Empros' strangeways a few times, you'll start to see the landmarks coming from a few miles off. Bigger, stranger, and just plain heavier than any Circles disc before it, the first 35 minutes of Empros' empyrean, oblong alienprog finds the band once again wrestling their grand ambitions into impossible shapes. And then there's \"Praise Be Man\", a searching, Spiritualizednodding folkgospel featuring a rare vocal turn from Cook. On a record with less scope than Empros, \"Praise\" would prove the sorest of thumbs, an outofcharacter overreach from a band who oughta stick with what they're good at. Arriving at end of all that interstellar overdrive, \"Praise\" proves an especially lovely comedown, one last burst of light to offset all that darkness. "}