{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17148/homepage_large.2507584a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Cass McCombs","title":"Humor Risk","text":" Say it quickly, eliding the r's that cap the end of the first word and the beginning of the second, and the title of Cass McCombs' second fulllength this year becomes Humoresque a genre of Romanticperiod classical music that favored lyrical, moodbased expressions intended to be funny. As a title, Humor Risk functions as a sort of riddle, one where the answer comes quickly but you still feel silly for not getting it earlier. McCombs probably prefers it that way. In a rare, cagey interview with Pitchfork's Ryan Dombal, he defended the grim and elegantly dark WIT'S END: \"You can't just explain a joke, can you? Either it isn't funny, or the person just totally missed the punchline.\" To be fair, that record did have a punchline or two buried beneath its incessant gloom. But McCombs' work has never really been expressively funny, and by his standards, Humor Risk is something of a laugh riot. There's a hapless drug deal that ends in murder (reminiscent of Silver Jews' alsoprettyfunny \"San Francisco, B.C.\"), a philosophical discussion on the nature of beauty in a mannequin factory, and a domestic ghost story that may or may not compare California to a mythical, firebreathing creature. Another topic raised in that interview is McCombs' reclusive nature and his penchant for personal privacy, which in the Internet age, fairly or not, seems like an unusual character trait. Since we don't know much about McCombs, save for his fascination with death and that he's lived as a nomad for most of his life, it's unclear whether his reservations about giving away personal details are due to something darker within him, or an intent to lend mystique and character to an otherwise relatively normal nomadic singer/songwriter type. Either way, McCombs isn't any more ready to reveal himself on Humor Risk; he delivers many of the lyrics to \"The Living Word\", a meditation on personal and universal spirituality, in a warm halfmutter that requires a lyric book to truly comprehend what he's saying. Religion is a touchy topic for McCombs, and here, even when he's embracing a somewhat positive message of universal existence on \"The Living Word\" and \"The Same Thing\", he's reluctant to say too much. Sonically, however, Humor Risk is his most straightforward and outgoing record to date, and the first time he's cranked up the electric guitars and dry drums since 2007's Dropping the Writ. The album's most upbeat songs chug like poppy mantras if McCombs were into such a thing, opener \"Love Thine Enemy\" could comfortably soundtrack some movie or TV commercial while the straightforward beauty contained in other cuts is often designed with tricky simplicity. There's an easy likability to most of this album, even if McCombs' everpresent opaqueness seems somewhat superfluous when he's in this zone. Productionwise, McCombs and frequent collaborator Ariel Rechtshaid have made the most of this album's piecemealrecorded nature (recording was spread out in various homes and studios in California, Chicago, and New Jersey). The backing vocals on \"The Same Thing\" are chilly and hairraising, while \"To Every Man His Chimera\", which sounds like a WIT'S END cut with enjoyably hammy theatricality added for good measure, is interrupted intermittently by distant voices and barking dogs. Like its creator, Humor Risk just sounds all over the place. In a certain sense, that's a good thing, as it only takes some homespun recording trickery to make McCombs seem distant and vaguely intransit on even the most harddriving songs here. Nonetheless, Humor Risk is a minor work in his growing (and impeccably consistent) catalog; unlike WIT'S END and 2009's softfocus careerhigh Catacombs, it plays less like an \"album\" and more like a \"collection of songs,\" a factor that may make it something of a difficult initial listen. There are a handful of solid songs on Humor Risk, though, without an outright dud in the bunch and if that represents a disappointment, then in the end, the joke might be on us. "}