{"label":" Slumberland / Wichita","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17156/homepage_large.7a5f8933.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"Spectrals","title":"Bad Penny","text":" If you were a committed enough blogminer in 2009 to have discovered Best Coast's early singles when they were first posted, chances are high that you discovered England's Spectrals the same way. Early tracks from the now 21yearold Louis Jones similarly mixed 1950s and 60s doowop and pop with a modern indie rock mentality. Dense, lofi textures and hummable hooks left his work rich in color and personality, and the gritty walls of sound were decidedly punk rock. When Male Bonding included the Spectrals track \"It's Very Kind of You to Put Up With Me\" on the first compilation from their label, Paradise Vendors, it felt like a slowmotion, acidfueled spin on a creaking Coney Island ride, Jones' soulful croon buried under washes of red reverb. At a point when eartotheground actually meant eyetoMySpace, Jones made an account, uploaded some songs, and friended Woodsist and Captured Tracks. The latter label messaged him about a 7\", \"Leave Me Be\", which followed in November of that year, and is now one of the imprint's most essential outofprint singles. It ushered Spectrals into what ought to be remembered as Gen Y's International BlogPop Underground a scene that in 2009 included hyper lofi acts like Dum Dum Girls, Real Estate, and Twerps. Whether the ramshackle renaissance of 2009 was rooted in fashion or necessity is an open question, but Spectrals were in and of that underground Spectorfueled wave, and have since released material on a handful of international D.I.Y. labels. These groups have all shed some fuzz by now, so it's no surprise that on Jones' first proper fulllength, Bad Penny, he makes a similarly slick departure. Indeed, the sound of Bad Penny is related only peripherally to his previous releases. Though it's hardly overproduced, Jones barely employs any reverb at all, and while his evolved sonic identity might be jarring to existing Spectrals fans, the polish sounds better over time. Indie rock readings of Phil Spector pop are almost passé at this point, but Jones makes it work due in no small part to his English wit, articulation, and gray mood. \"Get a Grip\" opens with a small, fun riff, prefacing a crooned rhyme: \"I need to get a grip, I always seem to let my smile slip.\" His delivery is slow and monotone, as he stretches each fifth syllable or so, but it's a toetapper, underpinned by cool bits of bongo and guitar. The bongo drum returns later on \"You Don't Have to Tell Me\", and whether or not the 50s jazzclub feel comes with a wink, its fauxsophistication still comes over as charming. \"Luck Is There to Be Pushed\" has a similar effect, but this time with the runs of jazz piano that fleck its dramatically soft guitar strums and subtle, gliding synths. The upbeat punch and texture on \"Big Baby\" and \"Confetti\" make for two of the album's most lively tracks, the latter offering a clever joke about dating: \"If what you call fun is courting, bring on the confetti.\" That hidden humor makes it easy to celebrate the record's smoothness, even on its more mysterious side. \"Many Happy Returns\", for example, is a slowmoving piece of pop poetry that recalls a hardboiled Dashiell Hammett novel. Its sway starts with a sharp sentiment of afterschool romantic uncertainty: \"Stood waiting for your Ma to collect you/ Wondering if she ever asked you/ Who I was to you?/ And wishing that I knew.\" Bad Penny has its weak points. The second track, \"Lockjaw\", is soulful but tired and awkwardly placed, tearing down the mood of the album after a sharp opening, and Jones' lyrics in general can seem recycled. Still, the record's main dividing line is the production, as there is a real philosophical shift that comes with moving away from lofi. Slumberland devotees might identify more with Spectrals' original grassroots mentality, but the album's more broadly inviting sound ties the band into a realm of music that rock critic Ellen Willis called \"ecumenical pop.\" It's music pleasant enough to carry intergenerational appeal, characterized by a youthful spirit but rooted in a classic sound. Bad Penny, then, is ultimately a solid debut that is still surprisingly safe. "}