{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17150/homepage_large.0f096132.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Royal Trux","title":"Singles, Live, Unreleased","text":" Like so many groups fond of noise, lofi recording, and insolence, Royal Trux were often classified as a garage band. But for the duo of Neil Hagerty and Jennifer Herrema, the word \"garage\" didn't so much represent a dirtyD.I.Y. aesthetic as a messy, greasy place where things get stripped down, torn apart, and welded back together. Throughout their 12year run (from 1988 to 2000), Royal Trux took a chopshop approach to pop history, deconstructing their favorite FMradio icons in particular, Mick Taylorera Rolling Stones and reassembling the scrap metal and wires into heaving junkyard jalopies, with the hoarsevoiced but imposingly beautiful Herrema serving as the hood ornament who could sell their mutant custom jobs as classic rock. Given their amorphous aesthetic which yielded works as incongruous as 1990's byzantine bricolage Twin Infinitives, 1995's bikerbar boogiefest Thank You, and 2000's ghettoblasted breakdanceathon Radio Video EP there is no truly definitive Royal Trux album, a fact reflected by the band's myriad contemporary admirers, who range from Bradford Cox, Liars, and the Kills to Bat for Lashes, Hot Chip, and MGMT. As a 3xLP collection of the band's early90s ephemera, Singles, Live, Unreleased may not seem like the most logical entry point into the Trux's phantasmagoric universe. But for newcomers, it's the standalone release that provides the best bigpicture perspective of Royal Trux's seesaw relationship with rock music and the avantgarde. Originally released in 1997 (and now reissued in unchanged form), Singles, Live, Unreleased was more than just a stopgap measure between albums; it also represented a symbolic homecoming to Drag City after a brief stint on Virgin that constituted one of the more bizarre byproducts of the postNirvana majorlabel signing blitz. After Thank You and 1997's Sweet Sixteen failed to realize Virgin's dreams of turning Royal Trux into the next Black Crowes (the pukestained album covers probably didn't help), Singles, Live, Unreleased heralded the band's eventual return to the weird with 1998's fuzzedout triumph Accelerator. Its chronology covering the years of 1988 to 1995 roughly aligns with the period when Hagerty and Herrema were in the throes of an infamous heroin habit that effectively defined the band in its early years and provided an unavoidable lens through which to interpret its music. But as far as junkies go, they were highly functional on top of the four official albums released over that span, the band recorded several nonalbum singles, compilation tracks, and Peel Sessions. (Of the 32 songs collected here, only five appear in different form on Trux albums proper.) And just as the duo was struggling to get sober over this period, its music was also undergoing its own slow, difficult lurch toward tradrock accessibility. Going one step further than Hagerty's Rolling Stones desecrations in Pussy Galore, Royal Trux's initial singles sound like all the individual recording tracks from Exile on Main Street spliced up and reassembled at random. Songs like \"No Fixed Address\" and \"Hero/Zero\" possess discernible raunchrock riffs, vocal hooks, and rhythms, but they sound like they each belong in different songs; at the same time, the duo's use of drum machines and weird synth frequencies not to mention Hagerty's Hendrixian facility at pushing standard bluesrock scales and solos into lobotomizing squalls lend this primitive music an oddly futuristic, temporally dislocating quality. In the same spirit, Singles, Live, Unreleased negates any kind of linear reading of Royal Trux's evolution, favoring instead jarring juxtapositions of era, musical style, and recording quality. But now, with the band defunct for over a decade, this illogical approach makes a lot more sense today than it did in 1997, transforming the listening experience into an archaeological mission, as each excavated track provides another clue to decoding this strange band. Royal Trux's music may not always make sense to you, but even at its mostmessed up, you can still hear how it made sense to them. The more straightforward rockers here (\"Steal Your Face\", \"Gett Off\") aren't quite on the level of the ones heard on 1992's selftitled effort and 1993's Cats & Dogs, while the glaring omission of \"Delta 70 of Hearts\" a \"Can't You Hear Me Knocking\" to call their own from the 1994 Hey Drag City compilation still confounds. But Singles, Live, Unreleased reveals intriguing new sides of the band that were lamentably never explored on their official albums, like the sampledelic pimpfunk of \"Shockwave Rider\" and the blissedout protochillwave of essential '93 Sub Pop single \"Back to School\" (recently covered by Of Montreal). And in contrast to Royal Trux's formative killyridols tack, we hear a more sincere interpretation of their influences here, including faithful covers of Milton Nascimento's Tropicália chestnut \"Faca Amolada\" and Jefferson Airplane's freedomrockin' \"Law Man\", and, most curiously, a '93 Peel Session take on \"The Theme from M*A*S*H\". But in the last case, what on paper appears to be a cheeky exercise in 70s revivalism proves surprisingly devastating, as the song's chorus \"suicide is painless\" takes on a several layers of significance when sung by a couple who once endured prolonged spells of addiction, poverty, and homelessness. Only in the hands of a band as peculiar and indefinable as Royal Trux could kitsch sound so affecting. "}