{"label":" Not Not Fun","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17176/homepage_large.24367aa9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Rangers","title":"Pan Am Stories","text":" Rangers' 2010 album Suburban Tours brought to mind alienated youthful evenings spent in identikit housing, so cut adrift from the world that the only place to escape was deep into your own head. Skip forward a year, and we have Pan Am Stories, an album title that's superficially linked to the process of escape, tied into a company that went bankrupt after misjudging the flux in demand to get away from it all. Rangers is a solo project conducted by the San Franciscobased Texas transplant Joe Knight, who put out a flurry of cassetteonly releases on As Above So Below and his current label Not Not Fun toward the end of the last decade. Suburban Tours was a surprisingly concise effort after the freeform sprawl of those releases, but the central Rangers sound dense layers of fudgy guitar melancholia engulfed by acres of tape dust remained intact. On Pan Am Stories, Knight attempts to build a better link between his past and present selves, retaining some of the expansiveness of earlier Rangers releases and stacking them up against exercises in cropped lofi pop. It's a double album, with many tracks stretching well over the fourminute mark, and a focal point in \"Zeke's Dream\" that runs to 13andahalf minutes. That song, like most of the others here, is marked by a strangulated guitar tone reminiscent of the heavily processed work Jonathan Donahue and Grasshopper were dabbling in on Mercury Rev's Yerself Is Steam. Like that band, Knight appears obsessively occupied with severing open altered states of consciousness through his music. \"Zeke's Dream\" feels like several different songs all pushing one another out of the picture, with the feverish playing cascading through basic riffing, rippling solos, and even some Tangerine Dreamlike keyboard drones. It's no surprise, then, that a search for Rangers throws up a story of people tripping balls to the everunfolding Low Cut Fades cassette while driving through the desert. That tale seems particularly appropriate when you consider Knight's fascination with travel, where the mode of getting somewhere appears more attractive than the final destination. In a sense, that's how Rangers' most expansive music plays out too. \"The Mule\", at the back end of this album, is a loosely woven ballad that ebbs and flows as keyboard noise and fat guitar excess is worked in. Despite those elements, it never deviates from its central riff, which coils over and over, locked down in a journey with no particular goal in mind. Even at its most tuneful, on tracks like the poppy and more tightly structured \"Luncheon Ghana\", there's a sense that these songs are fragments of works that could easily be pushed out into \"Zeke's Dream\"sized spaces. What makes Pan Am Stories worth returning to is the scope Knight works within, where elements of prog, folk, and psychedelia blur in and out of focus, often mirroring the superior work Bristol explorers Flying Saucer Attack were practicing in the 1990s. At times it does lag, especially when the buriedinthesand vocal exercises on tracks like \"Khyber Pass\" and \"Sacred Cows\" don't add much to the overall picture. But it feels like Knight is finding his confidence as a singer here, perhaps prepping to step out of the dimly lit corner he was sporadically crooning into during the making of this record. In particular, the twinned \"Zombies (Day)\" and \"Zombies (Night)\" are among his most fully formed pop efforts yet, indicating that his music can be as much about design and execution as it is about voyage and discovery. "}