{"label":" Hydroshare.tv","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17184/homepage_large.88ec9b73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jeff Weiss","artist":"Gonjasufi","title":"The 9th Inning EP","text":" Gonjasufi invented intelligent demon music. The oneman boom began on last year's A Sufi and a Killer, where San Diegobred Sumach Ecks split the difference between Western aggression, Eastern mysticism, and extraterrestrial idiosyncrasy. Even his stage name is a compound noun: half weed, half wisdom. All rolled up into a blunt, banshee wail. Released on Warp, A Sufi and a Killer was both futuristic and primitive, a glass pyramid breaking under the weight of his psychedelic bombed squad: Flying Lotus, the Gaslamp Killer, and Mainframe. The evil spirit was summoned by a 32year old exunderground MC who found his sedimentstrangled singing voice via Bikram Yoga, high grade chronic, and magic mushrooms. A biblically bearded original prone to Twitter jeremiads against the contemporary age of \"LITTLE SAMBO AND HIS PACK OF DEVIL WORSHIPPING BARBIES.\" He routinely stresses love, understanding, and the violent overthrow of government a peaceseeking yogi who will slap the shit out of you for talking reckless. Some things are not supposed to be logical. Based in \"the Mojave,\" the desertdwelling prophet dropped The 9th Inning EP last month. We owe the free, foursong collection's existence to an arrangement between Sufi and viral video/mixtape portal, Hydroshare. He gets paid for old tracks that had been infecting his hard drives since being first recorded several years ago. We get new music to hold us over until his minialbum MU.ZZ.LE drops in January. From the first words of The 9th Inning, we're sucked into apocalypse. Industrial noises clank like robots led to the guillotine. John Carpenter synths ooze and \"Demonchild\" starts with Sufi croaking, \"My mama says son/ Look what the world's coming to/ My mama was right/ The sun is colored blue.\" What makes Gonjasufi's music so singular is that voice, suspended somewhere between George Clinton, Tom Waits, and something that crawled out of the La Brea Tar Pits prehistoric and warped from thousands of pounds of pressure. \"Eat Fish\" finds Ecks hanging ectoplasmic hooks on boombap drums and raps from L.A. leftfielder Blu. The chorus' moral: \"be rich, eat fish, and die.\" It's sage advice partially cribbed from the WuTang Clan's Ghostface Killah, and indeed, the spirit of WuTang hangs heavy over this project. With its stripped down organ loops and dusted drums, \"The Lows\", sounds like a distant cousin to Gravediggaz and Tricky's The Hell EP. Opting to spit his tiger style raps, Sufi channels the unhinged delirium of Ol' Dirty Bastard. There are coldblooded threats of \"wandering eyes getting poked\" and the difficulties of keeping oaths not to kill when there are \"vampires walking around with smiles on their grill.\" Lest you think there is a clear father to his style, he calls on \"savasana\" for calm the corpse pose in yoga. Nor can you define the title track. It's not quite rap, and even though it's partially sung, it's light years from R&B. Disembodied vocals coo in the background, and Sufi sounds like someone who attempted to conjure Nate Dogg at a séance and received a demented ghost from a nearby dimension. It's unclear whether he's singing or rapping, and that's the point. It's otherworldly and unclassifiable. Or as he chants about a former partner, \"similarities in our style, but I took it from here. I took it from here.\" Enter the demon. "}