{"label":" Doomtree","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17188/homepage_large.4ded0ba4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Doomtree","title":"No Kings","text":" Minneapolis' Doomtree let a bunch of their hydra heads have a turn in the spotlight over the last year or so, and the ensuing solo releases were a solid indicator of just how multifaceted a crew they could be. But of all the records that had the potential to raise the collective's profile including rapper/singer Dessa's coolly strong Castor, the Twin, Sims' feral, heavyhitting Bad Time Zoo, Lazerbeak's indie popfriendly Legend Recognize Legend, and Paper Tiger's intricately soulful beat record Made Like Us it was, of all things, a mashup record that blew up. Funny thing is, the concept behind the Cecil Otter cocreated \"Wugazi\" project wasn't just some blogbaiting crossover stunt it's a way to look at where Doomtree got their early inspiration as an entity, somewhere between the formlikeVoltron WuTang enclave's early underground mythbuilding and Fugazi's communitybuilding independence. But the easysell concept of Shaolin punk doesn't even really come into obvious play with No Kings. The hardcore continuum isn't as readily acknowledged as it was on P.O.S.'s solo work, while Lazerbeak's Plastic Constellations background doesn't figure in his productions much, either. (The most traditionally and superficially \"punk rock\" sound on the album is the surferhoodlum riff that opener \"No Way\" builds around, and that's sourced from an early 1970s soundtracklibrary album.) And not even Ghostface in fullblown manic streamofimagery Supreme Clientele mode was as relentlessly evasive and tricky to parse as some of the verses on here. Loosely alludedto themes about camaraderie and identity get buried under waves of abstract allusions that leave behind little narrative impact on first listen, other than the vague sense of some victorious resilience. Fortunately, that vague sense has some intrigue beneath it. Sims, Cecil Otter, Mike Mictlan, P.O.S., and Dessa all share a beatpoet sense of tightlypacked extended abstract metaphors, which they vary to subtle enough degrees that differentiating their voices seems beside the point. That's not to their detriment, and the aforementioned solo releases are proof enough that they can each go in their own distinct directions. But as a unit, they complement each others' talents naturally, each providing their own variations on allegorical stressrap. \"Team the Best Team\" might be the best example of how all five MCs switch up their approaches P.O.S. as sincerely intense slowburner, Sims's slickflowing, machetesharp delivery, Cecil Otter throwing pinpoint darts with deadpan calm, Dessa's deceptively coolheaded, subtly melodic shadowboxing, and Mike Mictlan's agitated yet precise internalrhyming intensity. Those qualities are easier to pick up on when they shake you away from the duty of parsing their lyrics, which, unbound by typical battlerap punchlines or personabuilding, at least manage to sell their cryptic insights as rallying calls. The dense weight of verbiage on No Kings actually welcomes uninitiated listeners, rather than siphoning them out for not being advanced enough on some impenetrable ultrabattler shit. And for the scattered talk of 10year tenures and the occasional fucktheseotherrappers declaration, the album's tone of flagplanting resistance builds off something deeper and more universal than political beef, star status or personal style. The trespassingasliberation undercurrents of \"Bolt Cutter\", the solidarity anthem \"Bangarang\" and the selfrealized, apocalypseflipoff \"Own Yours\" are all introspective in their own ways, but they're too busy staring you dead in the eye to gaze at their own navels. And it's easy enough to give the lyrics plenty of time and space to sink in or even just roll off your back for the time being when the beats are this upfront and anthemic. With a production that largely draws off the strengths of their two primary beatmakers, the individuals' highlights Lazerbeak's grimy, garagepsychinfused \"String Theory\" and \"PunchOut\"; the Super NES prog of Cecil Otter's beats for \"Beacon\" and \"The Grand Experiment\" are as much a collective triumph as the group efforts, like the coproduced bookends of motorcycle chainswinging minisuite \"No Way\" and the digital brass blowout of \"Fresh New Trash\". Doomtree have been comfortable inside their own space for so long that their individualistic pride in it has grown from defiant to triumphant. That oneoff bootleg drew all the attention No Kings damn well better keep it. "}