{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17186/homepage_large.54b037aa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Sigur Rós","title":"Inni","text":" Inni arrived in stores with plenty to keep Sigur Rós fans occupied over two hours of music spread across two discs, as well as a handsomely shot DVD but last week, there was a piece of unintentional bonus material capable of changing its context completely after the fact: news that the band was back in the studio. Save for one track that ended up on the cutting room floor, Inni was taken from the band's final show in London before their indefinite hiatus and the launch of Jonsi's solo career, the success of which was a foregone conclusion. So it was easy to see Inni as an attempt at a totemic, final word on the Icelandic group or at least a 4Q sweep at completist dollars. As of now, it still does maintain something of a sense of finality, but only as a smartly arranged retrospective of a rewarding decade that began with an unprecedented sound and ended up with the sense that complete ownership of that sound had people taking them for granted. Though basically any concert performance from Sigur Rós has been considered transcendent due to its underlying material, both of their live documents have had some sort of distinguishing characteristic. 2007's Heima stripped them down to acoustic essentials and Windham Hill vibes, the novelty manifesting in how closely they were willing to lean into their accusations of being New Age For Radiohead Fans. Here, you bear witness to the closest incarnation of Sigur Rós as a rock band comprised of human beings who play stringed instruments you could buy at Target as opposed to some sort of mythic conjurers they didn't bring closely associated string quartet Amiina, a horn section, or a choir, or anything that lumped them into the \"prog\" category outside of song lengths that regularly top eight minutes. But the lack of literal bells and whistles could've been more out of convenience than a desire to make any sort of artistic point. Thanks to Jónsi's impeccable vocals, a rare falsetto that loses none of its power in a live setting, everything remains indubitably the work of Sigur Rós. Peeling off a few brassy layers isn't going to reveal any sort of true pop songcraft that you might've missed. Likewise, Inni will only be disappointing if you consider a live version as the de facto \"real version\" due to some strict concept of authenticity turns out that knowing when and how to employ a horn section is a skill and one the band excels at, so it's understandable that \"Ný Batterí\" and \"Hoppípola\" don't max out quite as volcanically as they do on record.  And if we're being honest, do we really want their back catalog to be humanized? I've always enjoyed \"Med Blódnasir\" as the three rapturous minutes where Sigur Rós thought they were a shoegaze band, but does hearing it sped up to a near punkrock velocity, flubbed bass notes and all, add any real value? And while a gorgeous, dewdrop piano ballad on its own accord, \"All Alright\" doesn't definitively answer whether Ágætis Byrjun would be every bit as cherished had it been in English, or any identifiable language for that matter. But this format does establish commonality between the five studio albums Inni draws from and makes the sequencing and pacing spoton. This isn't easy to do since none of them really do a good job in terms of substituting for each other. Still, they heavily favor the material that came after 2005's Takk, a crucial pivot where Sigur Rós started to be slotted into what might be considered \"conventional\" songwriting, or at least transcendence doled out more succinctly and frequently. Even when removed from its amniotic cocoon, \"SvefnGEnglar\" moves tectonically, its cathartic, minor key rupture lasting about 20 seconds on a track that's got 10 more minutes. Fast forward five years, and \"Hoppípola\" sounds like the most anthemic part of Snow Patrol's \"Run\" isolated for reproduction in a Petri dish, while \"Vid Spilum Endalaust\" could pass for one of the most instantly catchy songs from either Mew or Muse. Still, even if Sigur Rós do plan on picking back up, Inni rewards those ruthlessly evaluating it based on whether it's a legit substitute for the real thing. Its purchase price is within the range of a facevalue concert ticket, but the truth is, I find no reason to begrudge anyone who'd prefer Inni, much like I don't hold it against people who'd rather watch an NFL game in the comfort of their own home, considering the ratio of aweinspiring catharsis to buildup. After all, the 15 minutes of \"Popplagid\" (aka \"Untitled 8\") are an investment when you've elected to consume ( ) in its entirety, but here you have to evaluate whether it's worth taking up space that more viscerally satisfying songs like \"Gobbledigook\" or \"Gong\" could've filled.  Practically anyone can admit that two consecutive hours of Sigur Rós is a lot to take in, and if you need to take a bathroom break or check your Fantasy Football lineup after \"EBow\" closes out the first disc, there's no shame in that. After all, if the point of Inni is to prove that Sigur Rós are human, why can't we be given the same luxury in their presence? "}