{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17198/homepage_large.87b38842.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Carter Tanton","title":"Freeclouds","text":" The work of Carter Tanton is relatively unknown outside of tightknit indie circles, but there's already evidence to suggest he's going to be a lifer. In 2007 he released a record of bullish roots rock with Tulsa titled I Was Submerged, only for that band to disintegrate before their potential was fully realized. Tanton has subsequently worked with Marissa Nadler and Baltimore art punks Lower Dens, establishing himself as a guitarist with both bands. His presence in Lower Dens continues, but he has also found time to record Freeclouds, an alloverthemap solo effort that tugs strongly on the aura of David Bowie's \"Wild Eyed Boy From Freecloud\" for inspiration. Tanton is more rooted in earthly matters than Bowie, lending much of this record an agrarian feel that meshes with surges of serrated energy, perfectly intersecting his work with Nadler and Lower Dens. Part of Tanton's appeal to other players surely comes from his studio skills. Freeclouds was mostly recorded at home, but you'd never know it. Tracks like \"Murderous Joy\" and \"Saturday\" may bear tinny drum sounds, but it sounds like an aesthetic choice rather than one forced upon him. Like a lot of people in his position, Tanton's biggest strength is as a composer and arranger rather than a lyricist. There's a midsection on \"Murderous Joy\" where all the clutter drops away for a few seconds and an affected guitar sound sags and swoons, digging out a feeling of loss that reaches somewhere far more meaningful than his strained Wilcolite vocals. But this is an album of evershifting modes, where Tanton's singing remain constantly fluid, occasionally spreading out toward a Chris Martinstyle rush (\"Landlines\") and sometimes wallowing in a lower registry lament reminiscent of Bradford Cox in his Atlas Sound guise (\"Fake Pretend\"). His desire to process his voice on multiple songs perhaps suggests he hasn't found his feet as a singer yet, although it's more likely to tie into his need to constantly dabble with the overall sound. The most successful experiments are prized out of the glitchy electronics Tanton likes to work with \"Gauze of Song\" bears a fizzy backing that sounds like old analog circuitry burning out and going haywire, while \"Pasture Sound\" fixes bright acoustic plucking to a bed of rippling beats that are all buried in a warm coat of fuzz twothirds of the way through. There's a sense of hippy idealism that pervades throughout Freeclouds, edging toward the kind of wideeyed sentiment John Lennon practiced at his least cynical. That feel is best manifested in Tanton's Lennonlike cover of \"Saturday\" by Sparklehorse, which sits at the center of this record and unfolds with an ease that the stilted material elsewhere never quite reaches. It's not clear what Tanton wanted this album to be, especially when he takes wild diversions into the Mary Chainisms of \"Horrorscope\" and the pitchbent shoegazery backing of \"Land Lines\". It's a loose collection of whims and desires, unrolled over vast expanses of terrain that Tanton could survey for a while to see how they fit. That makes sense for someone who has made a career of gifting his talents to a diverse collection of other artists, but further solo ventures could use some big picture thinking to add the edge of clarity Freeclouds is lacking.  "}