{"label":" Debemur Morti","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17201/homepage_large.edce3a49.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Blut Aus Nord","title":"777: The Desanctification","text":" One of the year's biggest threads in heavy music has centered on the loose enclave of American metal bands reshaping black metal and, in turn, introducing it to fresh faces. From Liturgy and Locrian to Horseback and Atlas Moth, they've each manipulated the decadesold, foreverinfamous strain in their own identifiable ways. Whatever your views on Hunter HuntHendrix's verbosity or Krallice's kinetic cascades, it's inarguable that they've all passed the sounds of corpsepaint and battle axes to bigger, more generalized crowds not overly concerned with someone's respective KVLT credentials. One reason for this, of course, is that these bands generally look and talk mostly like your average rock dudes; they give interviews, tour, and generally wear band Tshirts and tattered jeans. They're not the first North Americans to mutate black metal, neither by a long shot nor by a decade, but they are distinctly identifiable people manipulating a sound that, compared to the indie mainstream, feels exotic and perhaps a tad dangerous. For the last 15 years, Blut Aus Nord the oneman band French musician Vindsval has twisted the idea and essence of black metal into new shapes. He's added the crushing reverberations of prime Godflesh and the militant pacing of Ministry, saturating some of his best moments with relentless drones and splintering noise. Several Blut Aus Nord albums are not only incontrovertible classics but also compelling evidence of the obvious that all this talk of metal's experimental interests is accurate, if just very overdue. Vindsval hasn't done himself any favors, either: He doesn't tour, doesn't issue album lyrics, and doesn't say much in public. In press photos, he is often hooded and shrouded in darkness. The same hermetic mystique that's helped push artists like Jandek, Burial, and MF DOOM into an ironic spotlight has mostly kept Blut Aus Nord in, well, the shadows. But audiences historically love a trilogy, a supposition that, combined with black metal's recent widespread notice, might deservedly help lift Blut Aus Nord out of relative obscurity. After all, the first two installations of the band's threepart 777 are two of this year's bestbuilt records. 777 Sect(s), released in April, is an obliterative march through rigorous black metal, apocalyptic postrock, and speakerrattling industrial tangents. \"Epitome 4\" encapsulated that approach with vocals that sounded as if Vindsval were being strangled by the battery of drums and guitars marching around him with Teutonic precision. Through its 12 minutes, the song took unpredictable turns dissonant countermelodies here, a choir of ghouls there, even almostpretty tones suggesting some relief in the distance. Unapologetically heavy, Sect(s) was the trilogy's breathless start. The Desanctification is less extreme than its predecessor, with generally shorter tracks (only the opener breaks the eightminute mark) and even an atmospheric instrumental impasse that's as delicate as it is foreboding. Where Sect(s) raced open on a string of blast beats, stage two lumbers forward with a simple midtempo throb. Repetitive guitar lines and stabs of noise circle sickly above. Those background coos from \"Epitome 4\" have grown into a full choir by albumopening \"Epitome 7\". (So far, the series lasts just less than 90 minutes, with each of its 12 tracks named and numbered as a sequential \"Epitome\".) That's not to say Desanctification is an easylistening experience, as some stretches here are so stuffed with electronic drums and echoing guitars that a claustrophobe could go catatonic listening to it. But the riffs are tempered with a certain accessibility, as with the Isislike hook of \"Epitome 10\", and the rhythms occasionally back into something nearly danceable, as with the stuttering clip that quakes through \"Epitome 11\".  Essentially, it's more dynamic than its predecessor, making stops at most every point between the frantic rush of \"Epitome 8\" and the doomlike stasis of \"Epitome 12\". There's more movement, more development, more variety; fitting for a trilogy's middle, it's where the sounds get thicker, where the possibilities simply become more intriguing. Perhaps Blut Aus Nord's cult status to this point is an unwitting setup for this strange moment, when television stars create parodies of black metal in major music magazines and an altcountry stud hosts a very funny but also very reverent talk show about the stuff. Perhaps this is the moment when the thing that actually does matter you know, Blut Aus Nord's music, captured here in a sofar, soperfect trilogy will supplant Vindsval's lack of indie rockready gestures, like press photos or Scion showcases. After all, 777 Sect(s) and 777: The Desanctification are as distinctive and daunting as anything else that's given buzz to black metal this year. "}