{"label":" Frenchkiss","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17204/homepage_large.50a64192.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"The Antlers","title":"(together) EP","text":" Prior to the release of Burst Apart, the Antlers' Peter Silberman delivered a trackbytrack breakdown of his band's gorgeous, subtly gripping record to Drowned in Sound the explanation of \"Rolled Together\" was particularly revelatory on three levels. First off, this is a pretty strange exercise for a lyricist as blunt as Silberman rarely does an Antlers song leave much to the imagination in regards to \"what it's about.\" Secondly, he went on to call it the result of an obsession with Boards of Canada, which also struck me as odd since it sounds almost exactly like Sigur Rós' \"SvefnGEnglar\". Lastly, he described the track as \"best heard stoned with friends.\" If so, while \"Rolled Together\" is Burst Apart's musical centerpiece, it's the thematic outlier on a record that speaks about sex and alcohol in an unusually austere and often negative manner, endorsing solitude and emotional sobriety as a corrective to the inevitable turmoil each brings. \"Rolled Together\" is better understood as the jumping off point for the odds and sods collection of the (together) EP, since it proves that, despite what Hospice and Burst Apart may have led you to believe, Silberman isn't holed up in a Brooklyn apartment waiting for his heart to be atomized between albums. That's not to say drugs were clearly a major influence here but the indie rock remix album is pretty much on the level of a bowlpassing session or drum circle in terms of pastimes that can be enjoyed only by the people directly participating in them. Hospice and Burst Apart were closed narrative circuits, so any sort of mixed bag from Antlers was bound to be jarring, and indeed, each entry into this hodgepodge of refurbishments, live performances, and outtakes exhibits its own unique set of errant artistic impulses. Take their cover of the xx's \"VCR\", for instance. Look beyond the fact that sampling, remixing, or covering the xx is quickly becoming a tiresome rite of passage and remember why the impact of xx continues to manifest: While the songwriting was surely exquisite, its striking minimalism, romantic candor, and sonic intimacy still cuts through the indistinct clutter many of the bands reinterpreting their music don't even realize they're responsible for. Problem isn't that the version here stays true to none of the original's artistic ideals, but it doesn't even sound like \"VCR\" reconfigured to the Antlers specs of passionate, electronic pop everything gets soused in a whorl of reverb, to the point where a Doppler effect on Silberman's vocals is the only thing breaking through. For whatever reason, the same tactics are applied to \"I Don’t Want Love (Peter's Version)\".  Where the sleek and silvery contours of the original added a layer of resolute determination to the narrator's conflicted take on physical attachment, the solo version just turns maudlin and ponderous under its blownout echo, something akin to hearing the guy down the hall work through cover versions of Grace. While those two are at odds with their expressive underpinning, the reduxes of \"Parentheses\" and \"French Exit\" unwisely ignore any sort of emotional context altogether, and Silberman simply becomes a trebly sound effect amidst tumbling, metallic loops. But those all serve as prelude to the physical bulk of (together), tied up in three consecutive instudio collaborations whose combined length nearly equals that of Burst Apart. Take your pick as to what's the more glaring sign of a total qualitycontrol void the motley collage serving as the cover art or the nearly two minutes of studio chatter and dead air that precedes each live cut. And yet, they still sound like they could've used more time to plan things out: previously, \"Hounds\" was an impossibly delicate meditation on fresh wounds and codependent fragility, but Nicole Atkins' interjections of husky blues notes triggers the same sort of nosewrinkling gag reflex of taking a shot of straight vodka. And there's a time and place for Alan Palomo to test out the wild oscillations of his homemade synths namely, Neon Indian songs. Here, they simply break the beatific spell of \"Rolled Together\" before the Antlers lock into its mixedmeter sway (which features some pretty nifty falsetto swoops), at which point you forget he's even there. And yet, it's the most blatantly selfindulgent song here that makes (together) ultimately impossible to truly dislike, because it's ultimately impossible to truly take seriously. And that would be a version of \"Parentheses\" with Bear in Heaven that would've been the secondlongest track on Lulu, and to its credit, one of the least grueling. Even in the postCD age, we've become accustomed to marathon song lengths housing a bit of false advertising, but there's no hidden track, no gaping vacuum of silence, just literally 18 minutes of the Antlers and Bear in Heaven jamming on \"Parentheses\", at its core a threeandahalfminute song based on a single drum loop. Frankly, I'm surprised they made it all the way to the end halfway through listening, I could get a snack or check my email. They didn't have that option. Look, (together) is borderline unlistenable taken as a whole, but it actually makes me like Burst Apart even more, since I can add \"tremendously edited\" to its long list of redeeming qualities. And really, it's less of an indictment of the Antlers as it is of (together)'s format. After all, the Antlers have produced a total of two great records since 2009, approximately two more than the entire cottage industry of indie remix albums has in its history. You know, drug abuse, divorce, war, and death all get a bad rap, but somehow they've succeeded in inspiring great art for 40 or so minutes, where letting a couple of friends fuck with your songs has failed about 100% of the time. "}