{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17199/homepage_large.72e70a4e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Future","title":"Streetz Calling","text":" As the epicenter of popular rap music, Atlanta is known as the birthplace and the machine for most of this generation's major gangster stars. But in its own way, Atlanta is also something like the L.A. of the black music industry, a place where pure, unadulterated pop and club music grows and mutates, and sometimes interacts with the mainstream, like when T.I.'s derided \"Whatever You Like\" became his biggest hit ever. For the most part, though, the purest of Atlanta poprap is an underground phenomenon followed feverishly by teens, young adults, and adults who wish they were still young adults (as engrossingly chronicled by Michael Schmelling, Kelefa Sanneh, and Will Welch in their book Atlanta) and whose stars burn quick and fast. D4L and Soulja Boy and Shawty Lo and Yung L.A. have all more or less come and gone, but there are always guys ready to fill the space, if only for six or 12 months. Every high school class has its own heroes. Future, an Atlanta born and bred singer/rapper, is currently wearing the crown, and if he doesn't prove to have a longer shelf life than most, his star will have maybe burned the brightest. You may know his voice from the hook and second verse of \"Racks\" (on racks on racks), one of the biggest club hits of the early year, or from \"Tony Montana\", his current underground smash that features him rapping in a ridiculous voice that's a very rough approximation of that of the movie character. But this is often ridiculous and very rough music, and Future pulls it off well; the song is one of the most fun tracks of the year. Peers are now starting to attach themselves to the guy with the hot hand, too: Drake blessed Future with a verse for the \"Tony Montana\" remix, and with the remix to \"Magic\" (his other underground smash), Future somehow secured T.I.'s most recent \"first verse since being released from jail.\" Streetz Calling is his most recent mixtape, and to give you an idea of how quickly these things move, none of the aforementioned songs appears. Instead of milking his hits dry, Future is presumably providing a breeding ground for new ones. He's so far basically come as close as anyone to perfecting this thread of ringtone pop, where singing and rapping are practically the same thing, and conversing 100% through AutoTune doesn't mean you still can't talk about how you used to sell drugs. It would almost feel antiquated if Future weren't amassing hits, or if he weren't bringing some subtle new dimensions to the microgenre. His nearcomplete integration of singing and rapping comes off as something born out of genuine inspiration, and less like a decision made because he's just not very good at rapping (like Yung L.A.) or seemingly bored by the entire idea of it (paging Soulja Boy). He's smooth enough on \"Unconditional Love\" to recall the time when Lil Wayne's AutoTune experiments were kind of romantic, and gritty enough on \"Never Be the Same\" to evoke dancehall singers who have used AutoTune to accentuate their pain. There are tracks here that hew closer to rap music, and though some lose his identity in the process, others highlight his ability to move closer to either pole and still make good music. \"Power of That P\", especially, is the work of someone full of ideas, as Future riffs on the letter, tying in everything from \"promethazine\" to \"petroleum\" to \"Peru.\" On \"E\" he works fine over a muted brassy beat next to Trouble, one of the city's most promising goon rappers, and on \"The Way it Go\" he sounds right at home over Zaytoven's candycoated keyboard funk. He's at his best when the amalgamation of rap and pop is more pronounced, but he's good enough when deciding to indulge his gangster impulses. Future works as prolifically as most artists need to these days, and a number of his tracks, including, say, a third on Streetz Calling, keep it moving without making any sort of impression. It's par for the course for the style of music he's trafficking in and for the way the game is played now, but Future's batting average is notable, and as more of his tracks become hits (however minor), his ability begins to speak for itself. This is pop music before it happens, and Future seems equipped to outlast many of the artists that paved a path for him. "}