{"label":" Touch and Go / Quarterstick","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17206/homepage_large.d902390d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Calexico","title":"Selections From Road Atlas 1998-2011","text":" The first time I saw Calexico live was in 1998, when they were opening for the Dirty Three at a tiny venue in Memphis. It was just Joey Burns and John Convertino up on stage, filling out their austere songs with resonant guitar fills and intricate drum patter. More than a decade later, I caught another show, this time at a large club in Washington, D.C., and it couldn't have been more different: The duo was joined by a small orchestra of musicians, who added horns, pedal steel, bass, and various other instruments. The sound was larger and louder, but equally cinematic. That contrast between early Calexico and later is telling. While their lineup has shifted almost constantly over the last few years, absorbing so many musicians in the Tucson scene, Burns and Convertino still approach Southwestern musical and oral traditions through the lens of indie rock records and film scores. And that approach has proved much more durable and rewarding than it might have seemed when they were openers instead of headliners. So it's fitting that this major retrospective release from the band isn't a greatest hits, but a collection of touronly LPs, available on vinyl for the first time and summarized on a 16track CD. Calexico have been releasing these limitededition LPs on their own Our Soil Our Strength label since 1999, using them as clearinghouses for outtakes, oneoffs, live cuts, and mostly studio experiments with various techniques, instruments, and musical genres. Packed together as Road Atlas 19982011, they form a compelling history of Burns and Convertino's partnership as they broke free of Giant Sand and Friends of Dean Martinez and gradually discovered what all they could do on their own. The vinyl set is almost a realtime account of a band feeling its way forward, and the fact that they never intended for these LPs to be \"real\" Calexico releases means they didn't have to worry about adhering to any particular approach or dynamic. Calexico could be a slippery entity, reassessing the possibilities with every note. In that regard, these LPs are essential to the band's identity. Even so, Road Atlas is by its very nature and limited availability (only 1,100 were released) aimed at diehard fans. Selections from Road Atlas proves more accessible, albeit not quite as revelatory or as immersive. Instead of adhering to strict chronology, the CD is sequenced to play like a Calexico album, which means, like Feast of Wire or Carried to Dust, it alternates between vocalheavy songs and instrumental interstitials. It's not too difficult to distinguish early songs like \"El Morro\" from later tracks like \"Man Made Lake\", but the juxtapositions can be illuminating. With its full sound and Burns' desperate vocals, \"Griptape\", from 2005's The Book and the Canal, sets up the rough terrain of \"Glowing Heart of the World,\" from 9899 Road Map, creating a dynamic that flows from Burns' vocal melody on the former to the lonely guitar strum and crashing finale of the latter. Selections is full of such passages, which blur the timeline and allow the songs to comment on one another. Even as the band has grown in lineup and in sound, Burns and Convertino remain the defining elements of Calexico's aesthetic. The drummer's complex rhythms allow a song like the live version of \"Lost in Space\" to essentially turn itself inside out, and he adds a jazzy spontaneity even to the rigid beats of \"Boletos\" and \"Entrenando a Los Tigres\". Burns may have started out as a slightly distant frontman with a limited vocal range, which actually reinforced certain themes of inbetweenness in their songs, but somewhere in the early 2000s, he developed a much more expressive delivery and became a much more engaged interpreter. On the dark cover of the 19thcentury lullaby \"All the Pretty Horses\", he doesn't shrink from the singsong melody or from the unsettling lyrics about flies feasting on a dead child. It's a fine showcase for both musicians, actually, as Convertino's drums comment on the verses with muted menace. Selections lacks the impact and narrative thrust of Calexico's best albums, but it doesn't sound like a hastily assembled oddsandends collection either. Instead, it showcases one of the band's defining and most distinguishing traits its ability to jumble and blur so many different styles and sounds together. Burns and Convertino ambitiously and unselfconsciously assert that mariachi, meringue, folk, jazz, rock, soundtrack scores, and studio tinkering all exist on the same plane and all lead ultimately to the same dark desert heart. Road Atlas makes that point with more power and nuance, but Selections is persuasive in its own right. "}