{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17207/homepage_large.081f2e1e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"North Highlands","title":"Wild One","text":" Some people travel far from their hometown in order to get away from it, others end up needing a few reminders of where they're from. Singer Brenda Malvini appears to fall into the latter category; after growing up in North Highlands in Sacramento, California, she moved to New York to attend NYU, ultimately naming her band after the place where she was raised. If North Highlands find fame, at least she can never be accused of forgetting where she came from. Wild One is the band's debut fulllength, constructed by Malvini and her band, which demonstrates a proficiency seldom heard on the Brooklyn indie rock circuit. Fortunately, this is a group that knows how to juggle the technical gifts at its disposal and the emotional application needed to make this something more than an exercise in indie navelgazing. Wild One might seem like an inappropriate banner to hoist over such quotidian surface structures, but dig a little deeper and it clearly represents this band's desire to shake things up every once in a while. Like any new group still etching out an identity, it's not hard to pluck out precedents to the North Highlands sound as this record progresses. In particular, the recently revived Electrelane circa No Shouts, No Calls are a strong reference point, with Malvini's singing mirroring Verity Susman's vocal lines on occasion (\"Steady Steady,\" \"Roundhouse\"). The band members are fond of taking her work and interlacing it with jerky rhythms that are clamped to the kind of ultrabright guitar playing Vampire Weekend practice, ultimately settling into a style that's one part icecold detachment and one part fizzy pop encompassment. The juxtaposition is good for creating a space for North Highlands to operate within, where the aloof vocal on a song like \"Chicago\" keeps their audience at arm's length, only for some Tindersticksy string arrangements to pull them back in with their warmth and vitality. Those strings add a touch of drama to Wild One whenever they surface. \"Lion Heart\" is a moving piece or orchestral pop that errs close to the kind of drunken flamboyance that Marc Almond or Patrick Wolf are fond of staggering around in, conjuring up a feeling North Highlands would be wise to return to more often than they do here. Much of this record remains solidly grounded in indie rock, with the band members occasionally scattering trails of potential paths they could follow behind them. When they keep it simple, with a guitar jangle and a driving beat (\"Bruce\") or by taking the pace down a little (\"Best Part\") it works simply as a showcase for Malvini's striking voice. She tends to shy away from revealing too much about herself, falling into a group of similarly minded female singers that includes Broadcast's Trish Keenan and Laetitia Sadier from Stereolab, where the notknowing leaves a series of questions simply hanging in the air. That sense of mystery is North Highlands' biggest asset, especially as they can always anchor it in a sound that's flexible enough to allow them to experiment and work up characteristics that are identifiably their own. The next step should be to shore up that sound, in a similar manner to Broadcast's leap from The Noise Made by People to Haha Sound. Sometimes Wild One wears its influences a little too hard on its sleeve, or strives too hard to create something anthemic with acrosstheboard appeal the closing \"Here's\" fulfills both of those criteria. That song has a tension that feels illfitting, because when North Highlands relax into their looser material, this stuff just seems to pour out of them, delivering an elegance that suggests they could shake off their tendency to emulate artists to whom they're so obviously in thrall. "}