{"label":" New Amsterdam","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17215/homepage_large.cbf92e9b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"yMusic","title":"Beautiful Mechanical","text":" If you're an indie rocker in need of chamber instruments, odds are you'll end up hiring a member of yMusic. The quietly ubiquitous sextet has spent its threeyear existence amassing crossgenre collaborations like so many passport stamps: you've heard them, wittingly or not, playing with Bon Iver, Björk, Grizzly Bear, Sufjan Stevens, Arcade Fire, the National, Vampire Weekend you get the idea. But they also perform as a more traditional contemporaryclassical ensemble, and on Beautiful Mechanical, their first proper fulllength, they mix up the two worlds, slotting compositions from St. Vincent's Annie Clark and Son Lux alongside new works from young composer colleagues. The album's existence is a feat of networking savvy and determination it was funded via Kickstarter page but the music itself is sadly hitormiss, underlining a melancholy truth about bridging genre divides: It results in empty pressrelease fodder as often as it produces luminous, surprising new music. Son Lux's titular work, \"Beautiful Mechanical\", lands somewhere blankly in the middle. Son Lux is no dabbler: He studied composition at Indiana University. But his work is somehow both antic and utterly frozen its gestures twitter away in different corners of the compositional space without engaging thematically. The work, which does some sly things with missing beats and rhythmic emphases, is technically assured, but it feels like the sort of forgettable, frictionless, minimalist sketch you can currently hear too many of at downtownNYC newmusic concerts. Annie Clark fares significantly better. In fact, her piece, \"Proven Badlands\", might be the most beguiling and multilayered composition on the album. On the basis of it alone, Clark could easily slip outside of her indie rock clubhouse entirely for an album's worth of chambermusic miniatures. \"Badlands\" begins with a swannecked glide of a bassoon line, a thricedigested memory of Gershwin's \"Rhapsody in Blue\". Cello and flute hop lightly into the frame. Then, the instruments clear out a space for an unexpected fingerpicked acoustic guitar. Interesting things keep happening: A muted trumpet calls out a yearning tritone, the sharp, eartroubling interval found at the heart of West Side Story. Bugling horns erupt into a lockedin pattern, an arch almostquote from some lost bigband record. The work is a lively jumble of jazzyFrench flavors, strongly suggesting that Clark's education in the classical canon made a little extra time for Debussy, Milhaud, and other jazzage cosmopolitans. Shara Worden of My Brightest Diamond also shows up to hand yMusic two sketches one vaguely Eastern, one vaguely African. Both are spry bundles of tiny noises. Worden's rich singing voice, which lit last year's Penelope, isn't here, but her pieces are imbued with the same lamplight glow. They are minor, but lively. Sarah Kirkland Snider, the composer of Penelope, revisits its agitated sound world with \"Daughter of the Waves\", a nineminute swirl of muted anxiety. Judd Greenstein's \"Clearing, Dawn, Dance\" starts with a loping figure in the woodwinds and sends it rippling expertly outward through the ensemble, like small bobbing boats in a wake tracking its movement and hearing how Greenstein obscures it proves absorbing listening all on its own. yMusic are part of a resourceful, engaged cluster of young classical musicians who are furiously networking a fullblown scene into existence. Collectively, they represent the movement's best qualities: broadminded, ambitious, eagerly collaborative. However, Beautiful Mechanical also hints at some of the stillgrowing scene's nagging limitations: As exciting as all this activity is to behold, the marketing heat it generates carries over into its music only about half of the time. There are delightful moments scattered throughout, but the overall impression is of a small box of baubles, modest and lovely but inessential. "}