{"label":" Drag City / Yoga","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17223/homepage_large.f75db97b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Dwarr","title":"Starting Over","text":" Privately pressed records can be dodgy propositions; if you've ever tittered at a high school marching band's LP, or wondered about that bearded, bespectacled, fingerpicking guy pictured on the back of a handdrawn sleeve from the early 1970s while thumbing the dollar bin of a record store, you know this to be the case. At their absolute worst, these selfpublished albums are tineared things (and invariably tied to local parishes). A select few like the kind of Midwest soul and funk oddities that the mindful reissue Numero label constantly unearths are redeemable listens. Yet only a few privatepress records ever offer portals into alternate realities. That west coast Yoga Records imprint mostly dabbles in the latter, be it Traveler's Advisory, the beguiling hammer dulcimerdrum machine album from Matthew Young or Ted Lucas' lonesome and stoned folk album. So it's no question that the peculiar strain of heavy metal that Duane Warr recorded to a Tascam eighttrack in 1984 while living inside his trailer in Columbia, South Carolina, is a portal to another realm. Dwarr, the oneman band of Warr's, goes to a dark alley in the psyche that few ever feel the need to wander, much less record and overdub crafting handdrawn album art as well as homemade videos for certain songs (not to mention pressing up and distributing, only to be unable to sell them). Warr homerecorded and selfreleased both 1984's oddlytitled debut Starting Over and 1986's Animals, before a divorce and spiritually harrowing time led to a breakdown and to Warr's becoming a bornagain Christian. With a continued fascination with Norwegian black metal, it makes sense that a rarity such as Dwarr should blip back for recent metal converts. Last year, Yoga (in conjunction with Drag City) rereleased Animals, which, despite having a cannibalpopulated landscape for a cover, sank without much fanfare. Now follows Starting Over, which is, alas, the weaker of the two albums. Dwarr's records are harrowing experiences, both in their tone and listenability, but despite a visual and aural aspect that seems to forecast doom and black metal, Dwarr never feels quite that dark and depraved. Despite what it predicts for the future of metal, it's genealogy still consists of Deep Purple, Pink Floyd, Tarkus, and Black Sabbath. From the looks of Starting Over whose cover art exists somewhere between Planet of the Apes' Statue of Liberty, The Shining's flood of blood, and whatever that hesher in your high school art class used to always draw on looseleaf this should be an evil, teenage suicideenabling shredder record of the highest echelon. Only, in the greater scheme of things, Dwarr's music isn't like that. While electric guitar shredding is the focus, this isn't satanic, apocalyptic doom heavy metal in its weird warped way, it's Christian folk. The greatest example of Dwarr and his particular kind of genius can be found in the video he shot and edited himself for \"Screams of Terror\", the second song on Starting Over. It conveys his gifts more than making the music can. What else can be genuinely campy and haunting, then campy again, but then bonechilling by video's end? \"You know you're going straight to hell/ And if you don't straighten your life/ You'll have an endless plight,\" Warr intones on the lugubrious, doorbellchimed tune, delivering his lyrics in that portentous Roger Waters whisper. Its early lines invoke that dread children feel in the dark, but Warr's lyrics ultimately veer towards a pat Christian morality, despite the monsters and skull paint. Even if at this phase of his life he's only into the damnation and sulfur parts of the Bible, returning to his religion seems inevitable in hindsight. He cites the Book of Job directly on the brooding \"Job's Revenge\", though \"brooding\" isn't much of a descriptor when it could describe every aspect of the music. Here he reads from Job 5:29 during breaks from a 12bar blues melody with a rote guitar solo on top. Too often, Warr delivers his lines and plays his parts without much variance. The best moments of the album come when Warr is at his most overt in his worship of Black Sabbath (rather than trying to conjure the ghost of Randy Rhoads via his Eddie Van Halen splatter guitar), as he does on \"Cannabinol: the Elation\". Only on furious closer \"I've Been Thinking\", where Warr's guitar cops the \"Sweet Leaf\" power chords and Ozzy's strangulated voice can one imagine a world where a heavy metal god isn't turned into a reality show punchline. "}