{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17225/homepage_large.c14d9588.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"Zomby","title":"Nothing EP","text":" Don't let the title or postalbum lateyear timing fool you there are plenty of good things happening on Nothing.  While it sounds like it was taken from the same creative burst that birthed London producer Zomby's recent LP Dedication, here that album's glum funereality gets an almost dancefriendly makeover. With its classicsounding jungle breaks and ragga vocal samples, opener \"Labyrinth\" immediately recalls Zomby's vaguely conceptual throwback debut Where Were U in '92?, though drenched in noir melancholy. The breaks stutter and sputter, the perfunctory chord progression is oddly defeatist, and the characteristic airhorns are mockingly empty and peripheral: Breakbeat 'ardkore never sounded this tormented. That's not to say Nothing isn't ever upbeat or danceable it's tinged with Dedication's air of quiet, nocturnal introspection but not shackled by its thematic bent or albumoriented sequencing. Thus we get seven shades of Zomby, and even if they're basically different shades of gray, it's exciting to hear him branch out. He tries something new on the unusually dissolute \"Trapdoor\", where grainy synths billow over scattershot percussion that has more to do with footwork than Zomby's usual hardcore continuum. \"Digital Fractal\" and \"Equinox\" take the pseudogarage bounce of older tracks like \"Tarantula\" and turn it somber in two different ways: \"Fractal\" plays with dulcet, mournful tones and shrouds its cycling arpeggios in reverb so they sound like they're off in the distance, lost in a fog, while the shimmering \"Equinox\" sucks that echo chamber dry, all crisply slicing snares and tactile hand percussion. It's a brilliant realism often missing from an artist whose work is expressed through glassy, artificial textures or borrowed tropes from extinct genres. Those extinct genres make a determined comeback on Nothing, however, and Zomby's take on them is stronger than ever. \"Sens\" toys gently with its breaks, carefully placing them in the white space of a melody caught between jerky and jilted, and \"Ecstasy Versions\" transitions from a hesitant breakbeat crawler into fullon jungle. Even here, again Zomby's morose melodicism takes center stage, a track more about its sadly cooing vocals a common sample source sullied and sullen and bleepy melody than the flashy, distracting breaks that should be the center of attention. It's like he's proving once and for all that Where Were U in '92? wasn't just a transparent exercise, blending his hardcore copycat tracks with his more personal, idiosyncratic tendencies. The Nothing EP was originally included as an appendage to the Japanese edition of Dedication, so it seems almost certain that these were leftovers from the album. But it says a lot about the strength of these tracks and Zomby's preternatural propensity for prolific greatness that the seven odds and sods on Nothing make for such a strong whole. It's not quite the sound of Zomby having fun this music is still too dark for that but it's Zomby being his usual tangential self again, after bearing the constraints of a second cohesive album. He recently tweeted: \"jungle is going to come back hard, mark my words, it might be five years from now but we will witness a new great age of jungle in England.\" This sounds like the excitable mouthingoff of a delusional purist, but really, with visionary artists like Zomby behind a potential new wave of the stuff, it's hard not to wonder if he could be right. "}