{"label":" DGC / Interscope / Shady / Ghet-O-Vision","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17238/homepage_large.955ce10c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Yelawolf","title":"Radioactive","text":" There's a curious moment at the end of the sixth track on Yelawolf's majorlabel debut. It's \"Throw It Up\", one of the album's highlights. After the song ends, there's a skit where Yelawolf and his boss, Eminem, discuss the course of the album. Eminem tells Yelawolf that the album needs songs for women, love songs specifically. Yela, for his part, feigns protest. It's presented as a conversation that any label head might have with an artist, but including it on the album is a bizarre and remarkably cynical move. It's unclear whether it's presented as a warning, an apology, a copout, or all three, but it more importantly marks exactly where a potentially great album starts to go off the rails. The idea of \"crossing over\" is something almost every rapper at a major label has to deal with. Making songs about, and for, women be it about love or dancing to gain popularity is a move about as old as the genre itself. For some rappers, it's a seamless transition. For others, it's not. It can be frustrating and dispiriting to watch the formula applied to a career that has yet to take shape, though it's a process everyone more or less knows is coming. It's also a route that can be rejected (a recent obvious example being Odd Future) or navigated deftly (\"No Hands\" didn't lose Waka Flocka any cred). Or, I guess, one can take the path Yelawolf chose, to lamely act as if you're a prisoner of a system that you chose to enter and make halfassed songs as if sentenced by law. And with that rehearsed conversation with Eminem about making love songs for women, Yelawolf is trying to absolve himself from the responsibility of about onethird of Radioactive being decidedly halfassed. The middle of the album (featuring hooks from the likes of Priscilla Renea and Fefe Dobson) is far and away the worst music of Yelawolf's career, and he knows it. His rapping is passable, but the beats are leaden and uninspired and the hooks are about as canned as possible. It's hard to imagine what the market for those songs is, really I can't imagine that Yelawolf's female fans want to hear him rap about conventional romance, or want to hear a potentially good song about bluecollar American life drowned in a syrupy chorus. The worst part isn't the songs themselves, but that the album didn't have to go this route. Outside the sagging middle section, the subject matter and production will be nothing new to those familiar with Yela's music; his voice and perspective remain sharp and unique, and he certainly hasn't lost any of his technical skill. The guests (Mystikal, Killer Mike, Three 6 Mafia secret weapon Gangsta Boo) are also otherwise the type of people that should be on a Yelawolf album, rappers from whom he pulls his vocal style or sharp wit, or to whom his fans likely also listen. (There is a frame of a great album here, and in the age of selective iTunes playlisting, maybe the regrettable portion of the album is merely just forgettable.) This isn't Yelawolf's first foray into trying to make pop songs or songs for women, but it's by far his worst. His previous albums last year's Trunk Muzik and its repackaged followup Trunk Muizk: 060 showcased an ability and an affinity for pop songwriting that could've been fostered and encouraged here instead of being shelved for industry castoffs. And then there is \"Let's Roll\", the song with Kid Rock that unexpectedly shows exactly how the formula can go right. Whether it equals pop success remains to be seen, but it's a collaboration that plays to both artists' strengths. As country boys at heart with an interest in both rap and rock, Yela and Kid Rock are arguably closer kindred spirits than Yela and Eminem, despite the tonguetwisting rapping. \"Let's Roll\" asks Rock to sing a conventional rap hook over a conventional rap beat, but the crux is in the grittiness and twang that Rock brings to the track, which dovetails perfectly with Yela's imagery of life as a rebel in Alabama. It's an inspired pairing, one that amounts to one of the best songs of Yelawolf's career, and it holds a mirror up to the four or five insipid crossover attempts that come later. "}