{"label":" Hideout","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17239/homepage_large.548007ed.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Patrick Wolf","title":"Brumalia EP","text":" Bait: Following this year's blindingly sunny Lupercalia and the clip for \"The City\" that had Patrick Wolf uncharacteristically gallivanting about on a Santa Monica beach, the Brumalia EP sounds seasonally appropriate for its lateNovember release. Switch: It sounds more appropriate for the holiday season, as opposed to the winter. Though there's incontrovertible proof that Wolf is long past trying to recreate the shadowy allure of his first two LPs, I gotta admit to hoping he'd bundle up in black again to at least reconcile his pop impulses with the gothic, brooding exaggerations of his youth. For the most part, Brumalia which translates to \"festival of the shortest day\" does let some blustery weather in, but sonically, it's on par with Lupercalia and The Bachelor, so it's not barren trees and howling winds so much as ostentatious Christmas light fixtures in the pure, driven snow. Whereas Lupercalia was inspired by the giddiness of a reallife romantic partnership, Wolf sidesteps straight biography to reacquaint himself with instruments, samples, and memories he literally found lying around: A longdormant theremin seeps through the stately pulse of \"Bitten\", the percussion underpinning \"Nemoralia\" is cobbled together from news footage of London's summer riots, the words of \"Jerusalem\" were adapted from William Blake, while the confessional lyrics of \"Trust\" are straight from Wolf's diary. Though they're as lavishly produced as his proper records, the little sonic footnotes and specificity give Brumalia a demolevel, realtime immediacy that rarely comes through despite his gregarious persona. Problem is that it begs the question of how exactly to evaluate the positive effects of Wolf's oversharing: Does prior knowledge of Brumalia's themes and history somehow lessen the value of its contents without it? Perhaps, since rather than using its brevity as a means of cohesion, Brumalia finds Wolf with a batch of songs unsure of what impression it wants to leave other than being a sonic appendage to Lupercalia, itself an uneven record. That said, \"Together\" is helped by its new context previously, its plainspoken hook (\"And I can do this alone/ But we can do this so much better... together\") felt like just another example of Wolf laying it on too thick, but amidst Brumalia's facially darker lyrical content, its contentment at least feels a bit more earned and its opulent disco pulse more striking. Meanwhile, a seesawing violin riff and an empathetic appraisal of addiction make \"Bitten\" as instantly ingratiating as recent Wolf singles such as \"The City\" or \"Accident & Emergency\" without the unctuous salesmanship. But like Lupercalia, an auspicious and cohesive start gives way to Wolf sitting uneasily between the poles of his nocturnal moodsetting and majorkey wooing. \"Pelicans\" is novel enough as Wolf's first iPad composition as well as a song with an overtly American geography, but without the occasional landmark, it's as turgid as the Florida swamps serving as its inspiration. Meanwhile, centerpiece \"This Time of Year\" goes further into Kevin Rowland fixation, but by trying to double as a Christmas card and an antiwar protest, Wolf's pen strains way too hard to purple up lyrics like \"How many crosses more must we stigmata our soil with/ Until we reveal the blood on our hands?\" And yet, Wolf still remains at least theoretically fascinating because he tries too hard, his artistic stumbles more often revealing a misdirection of ambition and talent than limitations. But is it just a matter of Wind in the Wires diehards not getting what they want? It's not that simple: Like Lupercalia, Brumalia uses Wolf's own experience to craft something that's more sonically and thematically universal. And yet, these supposed tensions don't end up feeling particularly tense or rife with possibility like Wolf's best work. As such, Brumalia ends up being as frustrating as his previous albums because Wolf appears capable of giving us anything to the point where comfort is not enough. "}