{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17237/homepage_large.6bb63619.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Luke Roberts","title":"Big Bells and Dime Songs","text":" Big Bells and Dime Songs, Luke Roberts' debut LP, was released by Thurston Moore's Ecstatic Peace in the spring of 2010; after a limited run, it received a relatively grander rollout this fall via Thrill Jockey. While the record wasn't reissued, exactly, Big Bells' unveiling was gradual which feels like a particularly appropriate beginning for Roberts, a deliberate and unhurried folk singer from Nashville. On first listen, Big Bells and Dime Songs can seem slight Roberts' guitar and vocals aren't augmented by much, save the occasional snare, some bass, or a snippet of electric organ or piano but their sparseness only amplifies the record's pervasive, echoing sadness. Big Bells is preoccupied with failures, emotional or otherwise: These are faithless laments, dirges for the nights when your glass is empty and no one's coming over. Roberts' vocals (which contain all the cackle of J Mascis and all the plaintiveness of Townes Van Zandt) are tender and bruised, and their smallness can be legitimately heartbreaking like on opener \"Somewhere to Run\", where Roberts blithely offers himself as a kind of lastcall solace (\"I'll be a hand to hold/ If I'm just a drunk who can't be true,\" he halfsings). Although folk music is frequently defined by its focus on narrative, Roberts' lyrics can be purposefully ambiguous, if not fully absurd (\"I'm on a boat/ And if I only float,\" he announces in \"Unspotted Clothes\"). Still, his oddball storytelling is unusually wellmatched by his slow, methodical strums, and these songs move with purpose. The message is buried somewhere in all that empty space. \"Unspotted Clothes\" is the record's most unforgettable track, and also its most intricately arranged.  Roberts gives each syllable its own tragic weight, while a bit of drum and piano complement his guitar; the results are wistful, mysterious. The lingering \"Epcot Women\" showcases Roberts' penchant for fingerpicking, with the crags of his voice providing a compelling counterpoint to the cleanness of his playing. There's only one misstep: \"Just Do It Blues\" contains a puzzling evocation (\"Heavens to Betsy/ Nigger knocking at the door\"), and if there's descriptive justification for the usage, it's not entirely selfevident here. If pressed, Roberts might flash a few Americana bonafides he was born in Nashville, but ran away from home to explore the U.S. via train, settling, for a while, in Brooklyn but unlike the bulk of the contemporary Americana canon, Big Bells is largely placeless. These songs are fiercely internal, which also makes them remarkably hard to shake here, Roberts is singing about the noplace of everyplace, the desolation we all know. "}