{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/160/homepage_large.e700baa9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brendan Reid","artist":"American Heritage","title":"Through the Age of Quarrel and into the Era of Putting Up with It","text":" Gentlemen. Oh. And ladies, too it's nice to see some of you finally joining our ranks. But let's get down to business. For months on end now, people have been spinning wild, implausible rumors about our asyetunreleased and supertopsecret product, codenamed \"Ginger.\" There are rumors that it's some sort of nuclearpowered scooter, which, if you care to take a look at the plans, you'll see is clearly offbase. And General Mills and Sony, you can rest assured that we're not \"horning in\" on your TasteoVision project. No, I'm afraid none of the above all exciting and aheadoftheirtime concepts, mind you, that we at Troubleman Unlimited would be interested in developing, given the proper economic backing are Ginger. But we like to think that the real Ginger is just as futuristic and vital to consumer needs as any of those products. Ahh. I'm getting ahead of myself. You all came here with one question smoldering in your skulls: \"What, essentially, is this exciting new Ginger product, and how can I get my hands on one?\" Well, I'll tell you. Ginger is well, Ginger is, umm... a hardcore album. Shocking, isn't it?! Daring, eh? A group of three terribly bright young kids calling themselves American Heritage (and I just can't tell you how refreshing it is to see the youth expressing an interest in their country) developed the album for us, which, because of the horribly unwieldy title they gave it, was redesignated by our PR department as \"Ginger.\" Now, I know some of you are saying, \"Wait a minute I already own a hardcore album. Maybe even more than one hardcore album! Why do I need Ginger?\" You don't know the half of it. Let's take her for a \"test drive,\" as it were. First, check out the vocals. Hear any? Well, disregard that first track, where a computerized voice recites some rather \"lowbrow\" jokes aimed at the band members to the tune of \"God Save the Queen\" just our boys' way of making the product a bit more \"userfriendly\" (though we think we'll have to ax that feature in the final version, as the unintelligible voice makes the humor a bit unfunny, as they say). But otherwise, no singing! The future, I say! Have you ever listened to \"techno\" music, the kind they make on computers? Not much singing there, either! Trust me: ten years from now, people will be singing up to 75% less than they do today! Plus and be honest with yourself here you've never really \"dug\" that hardcore singing style. Those guys sound like they're crazy! And all that screaming distracts from the natural beauty of the music. Am I right? Well, with Ginger, you don't have to deal with that junk anymore! Now, I know that when you listen to newschool hardcore, you think, \"Sure, there are lots of tempo and time changes. But darn it all, I want more!\" Well, now, cool down for a second. Just take a listen to Ginger. See? You can go for minutes without hearing a multiple of four! Ginger can handle the most arcane time signatures imaginable. In fact, that's almost all it does! And if you're getting bored with that 9/4 rhythm, don't worry; it's sure to change in a few seconds. I'm sure you're all wondering how our boys at American Heritage managed this. Well, they've got a secret, and it's something so brilliant I can't believe no one's ever tried it before. You see, Ginger almost never establishes a solid beat! That's right, it's nearly incapable! Even at slower tempos, they just can't do it. Listen to how they just kind of trail off at the end of about half of the measures. Genius! I know questions have been raised about why this doesn't make all of those time changes moot, and those are excellent questions that I will, in fact, address at some point in the distant future. Allow me to digress for a second to tell you a bit more about our American Heritage team. These kids sure know how to play their instruments, and a few of the individual sections of these songs are quite nice, but that's not where their true genius lies. See, they're up on the market research. They know that consumers today don't really want convenience, ease of use, or any of that malarkey; they want frustration without reward! For all of those who thought Ginger would be some great boon to mankind well, joke's on you, folks. American Heritage personally guarantees that none of the transitions between the parts that comprise Ginger will be interesting or inspired, just emptily hyperactive. This might appeal to those interested in instrumental wankery, but that's an entirely different demographic. American Heritage have applied this design ethos to the packaging as well you say having eight tracks on the CD but only six listed on the case would piss you off? Well, from what the guys tell us, you'll be pissed off and you'll like it! And just as an added bonus, American Heritage threw in one of those techno songs you've been hearing so much about. And do these kids know their way around a keyboard! Listen to all of those bleeps and bloops! Just like playing Nintendo! I'm sure that after all you've heard, you're ready to lay down a few hardearned dollars for the privilege of owning one of the first Gingers off the line, and I'll be taking orders and downpayments right after your questions. Yes, you with the mohawk and the switchblade? "}