{"label":" Work It Baby","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17246/homepage_large.09b40823.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Fred Falke","title":"Part IV","text":" Fred Falke is still living in the last century. To my mind, that's no bad thing, but if you're one of those dance fans who thinks the music constantly needs to be mutating into new forms, you may not be quite as excited by this news. Like so many French producers who came up in the wake of Daft Punk's Homework, Falke seems to think house music was perfected around the turn of the millennium, when the twin sounds of Thomas Bangalter's Roulé imprint and GuyManuel de HomemChristo's Crydamoure labelruled Parisian clubs. There's not a single sound on Part IV, Falke's first solo album, that you also couldn't find on a French dance single from the late 1990s. If you were around at the time, or you've caught up on the premillennial Gallic glory days in the wake of DP's pyramidrocking global success, the sense of déjà vu, of listening to an everythinginitsrightplace collection of familiar and still pungent tricks, will be timewarp disarming. The wildly woozy disco cutups of \"Last Wave\" and \"Look Into Your Eyes\", which spend seven or eight minutes chopping and filtering the same bits of insistent boogie bass and mantralike soul samples, are straight out of Roulé's playbook. The massive synths all over the record, compressed to an overwhelming midrange buzz, still split the difference between 1980s softpop and justshyofdissonant techhouse, just like you'd find on a classic Crydamoure label cut. Even the harsh stuff, say the thuggish electrogoesmetal riff that drags \"Bare Knuckle\" through its paces, which you might think owes something to Justice and the Ed Banger crew's assaults on good taste from a few years back, still has its roots in Daft Punk at their most earscouring and inhuman. Of course Falke's not the only current producer to be acting as if everything from minimal to dubstep never happened. The skyscrapersized riffs, endlessly bumping beats (pitched between deephouse smoothness and stadiumsized techno ruthlessness), and extremist pop gloss of circa 1999 French dance are still everywhere these days, including your local Billboardfriendly pop station. Everything on Part IV is unabashedly huge and peaktime (or drivetime) ready. Slap a pop star on a couple of these tracks, and Falke could be competing with mercenary goons like David Guetta. The difference between Falke and the current crop of clubturnedradio kings, however, is that under the Ibizaready wallofsound there's an audible love for oldschool disco, another thing that marks him out as a French heir to a very French tradition. The fluidity of the basslines all across Part IV nods to both Falke's origins as a bassist and the funkiness of the live band disco days, fluidity and funkiness being two qualities decidedly missing from the robotic ruthlessness of Guettastyle pophouse. The question, of course, is do you need this album if you're already steeped in the classics? It'd be a fib to say that Falke does anything particularly unexpected or inventive with this material. He just knows what he likes, and he's got a very strong, slick grasp on how to assemble the \"perfect\" (if sometimes slightly generic) French house tune, to give you a powerful hit of an old drug. The styles plundered on Part IV comprise a longproven formula for getting the adrenaline pumping, not something to sneer at when talking dance music. Falke's spent 10 years tweaking these templates until everything is maximally effective, and even if he's no innovator, at least we get to luxuriate in the rush. "}