{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17270/homepage_large.47475a91.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ned Raggett","artist":"This Mortal Coil","title":"HDCD Box Set","text":" For a while in the 1980s, and to some degree into the following decade, many listeners assumed the Londonbased 4AD record label was defined by arty goth rock. Bauhaus' slashing, poised aggression may have helped kickstart the label, and Modern English created a new wave hit for the ages with \"I Melt With You\", but after a few years acts like the gauzy Cocteau Twins and the medievalEuropegoneglobalinstruments of Dead Can Dance ended up being the big sellers, especially among those inclined toward pale and interesting looks matched with black clothing. Right next to these acts on 4AD, meanwhile, was something even more cryptic, a band that never toured, that never really was a band at all: This Mortal Coil. This Mortal Coil, the subject of a new comprehensive box set, was in the public eye an encapsulation of 4AD's sound and style spread out over three albums and associated singles and oneoffs. And though founder Ivo WattsRussell didn't want This Mortal Coil to be seen as a label vanity project, there was nothing more classically \"4AD\" from a listener's point of view. Despite the presence of so many performers not signed to the label and the fact that nothing else on 4AD actually sounded like This Mortal Coil, nothing else spoke more to the idea of what the label seemed to be. The band's identity came not from a specific individual person or group of people but from a sprawling series of studio efforts, packaged in moody cover designs courtesy of photographer Nigel Grierson and designer Vaughn Oliver and always featuring model Pallas Citroen, a kind of monolithic, blackandwhite take on Roxy Music's own remarkable run of covers over an earlier decade. Producer/engineer John Fryer, WattsRussell's key collaborator across the releases, helped maintain a mood of poised, shadowy romanticism, part dark ambient grind and part latenight stringladen recital. This approach to production was combined with WattsRussell's desire to celebrate obscure songs both old and more recent and transform them into something new and stunning. The project offered a mix of familiar and unknown voices and songs, performers sometimes appearing only for a single song, even simply an instrumental (such as Dead Can Dance associate Peter Ulrich, taking a bow on Filigree & Shadow with the percussion piece \"At First, and Then\", never to reappear). The first album, 1984's It'll End in Tears, can't escape being dominated by the group's most famous track \"Song to the Siren\", a song by Tim Buckley recorded for his album Starsailor and recast by Cocteau Twins' Elizabeth Fraser and Robin Guthrie into a gripping vocalandguitaronly performance that has since completely overshadowed the original. First recorded as a Bside for TMC's debut single from 1983, \"Song to the Siren\"'s success prompted WattsRussell to continue with a fulllength. It's to his credit that his stated ambition to not simply have a 4AD house band actually came true. The voice of Tears is, if anyone, Cindytalk's Gordon Sharp, ranging from operatic bravura on the opening cover of Big Star's \"Kanga Roo\" to the closing tenderness of \"A Single Wish\". But even that's too simplistic a summary on an album ranging, seemingly haphazardly, from the murky atmospherics of \"Fyt\" to the blunt, mechanistic rockout making up their version of Wire member Colin Newman's \"Not Me\". Filigree & Shadow from 1986 comes across as a more unified effort in comparison, released as a double album and with each of its four sides planned as a selfcontained unit, songs flowing one into the other. If nothing towers above the rest like \"Song to the Siren\" did, the tradeoff lies in the record's feeling of dramatic concentration. Something like \"I Want to Live\", a song taken from an obscure 1972 album on Elektra by Gary Ogan and Bill Lamb and given a remarkable reworking by sister singers Deirdre and Louise Rutkowski, can coexist with ominous nearindustrial level pieces like \"A Heart of Glass\" and \"The Horizon Bleeds and Sucks Its Thumb\". Yet it all works in the end, from fragile strings on another Newman cover, \"Alone\", to the dark funk guitar on Talking Heads' \"Drugs\", and no one song moment can fully convey the record's range. Blood, another doublealbum release rom 1991, feels in retrospect like the ending of multiple eras, with 4AD about to open L.A. offices and a new decade about to embrace homegrown noise. But in some ways this felt like the most American record they'd done yet, given cover choices like Spirit, the Byrds, and Emmylou Harris via Rodney Crowell (not to mention a return of sorts to Big Star via Chris Bell's \"I Am the Cosmos\" and \"You and Your Sister\", the latter featuring a duet between Kim Deal and Tanya Donelly). Listening to it again in a time when styles are so easily appropriated, it's actually shocking to hear a band approach those sources so intent on reinterpreting them in their own image. From the opening original \"The Lacemaker\", all strings, echoes, and tones, to the slow stomp and grind of \"Ruddy and Wretched\" and a delicate version of Mary Margaret O'Hara's \"Help Me Lift You Up\" and even the almost light breakbeats of \"Loose Joints\"  it's another catchall that holds together. This collection is the second time that the three albums have been presented in a box set the first time, in 1993, included a fourth disc that featured the original versions of the many songs that TMC covered. Besides updated remastering and a new overall presentation, there's a new fourth disc here, Dust and Guitars, consisting of those previously mentioned nonalbum releases, including the \"16 Days/Gathering Dust\" medley from their first single, two unreleased songs from a planned 1992 Rough Trade single, and various single remixes. When those original songs TMC reworked can now be easily put together on a playlist via YouTube or Spotify, the actual physical sight of this comprehensive set helps reinforce what made this project special. It feels like one last nod toward the idea of 4ADasartisticconstruction, a final opportunity for something a little more permanent. "}