{"label":" Infamous","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17273/homepage_large.fe3e4ed7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Mobb Deep","title":"Black Cocaine EP","text":" Does it devalue Mobb Deep's output from the 1990s if I think they could still possibly perform at that level despite over a decade's worth of evidence to the contrary? Let me clarify: I'm not talking so much about The Infamous or Hell on Earth, those would require reopening a window of commercial relevance for that rugged and raw aesthetic as well as Prodigy and Havoc reemerging as the fatalistic old souls of their early 20s, preferably rocking Hennessy football jerseys. That's probably not going to happen, and it's not entirely their fault. But they don't need any of that to aspire to the standards set by the stillawesome Murda Muzik, their 1999 LP which, in retrospect, could be seen as a forerunner to DipSet's synthesis of deadpan, absurdist violence, and a general disregard for actual rhyming. They just need to be entertaining and not give a fuck, and I mean have you seen Prodigy's Twitter feed since he got out of jail? But while @PRODIGYMOBBDEEP is more than capable of reminding us never to question his trendsetting nor what he brought to the table, very little of that batshit sense of purpose or fun makes it to Black Cocaine. The trouble isn't that Havoc and Prodigy have run out of things to say, or that they don't really have much to rap about anymore they're real, you're shook, and Prodigy will almost certainly have sex with your woman if only to make your bitch ass realize your own capability for being shook. That shit obviously never goes out of style, but rather than the likely legitimate insanity Prodigy flexed on 2007's Return of the Mac, the two wring inspiration from that mode with the stubbornness of trying to get that last bit of toothpaste out the tube. Once the author of the illest first lines (\"Quiet Storm\", \"Shook Ones, Pt. II\", the list goes on), Prodigy hardly comes up with one memorable rhyme during the entirety of Black Cocaine we get brief teases at Illuminati P conspiracy theorizing, but little anyone who's seen a one dollar bill couldn't come up with. Likewise, Havoc delivers bar after bar of nearmesmeric placeholders, but he does boast about having \"a ledger on my MacBook,\" so now you know Excel is the spreadsheet of choice for dunn accountants. Still, at least they're not fronting like club attendees or sex symbols anymore, and any remnant of GUnit factory production is swapped out for wheelhouse Mobb with plenty of synthesized horns and icegrilled hihats. But the title track and \"Conquer\" just remind me of any number of Infamy deep cuts whose titles escape me and whose quality doesn't inspire me to find out. If nothing else, you can be happy that Alchemist is inevitably involved, and I seriously doubt anyone's still holding \"Takeover\" against them if Nas isn't. While it's a distinct pleasure to hear Queensbridge's finest reconcile their differences, it's a distinct disappointment all the same at the utter lack of spark present on \"Get It Forever\": Nastradamus is considered one of the leastinspired hiphop records ever made, and even then, these guys could still come up with something as bracing and utterly badass as \"Family\". And you can also admire the stylistic window dressing as Hav and P try some kind of weird upper register flow on \"Dead Man Shoes\". But they never find their footing, while you can imagine Bounty Killa spending the pauses during his offbeat hook wondering whether Gwen Stefani still has his phone number. And so Black Cocaine comes across as not particularly different than, say, recent records from Saigon or Uncle Murda or M.O.P., guys who should be able to use the cratered rap economy to their advantage and create the rawest, most uncompromising, and NYcentric hardcore hiphop they so choose, but who ultimately sound confused as to how to navigate a land with no boundaries. (Just bearing witness to \"Hell On Earth 2k11\" featuring French Montana and Waka Flocka Flame is kinda mindblowing either way.) Truth is, Mobb Deep sound kinda unsure as to where they stand, too proud to truly change up their style and still too much of a name brand to have to. "}