{"label":" Now Again","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17279/homepage_large.ed01bde2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Dimlite","title":"Grimm Reality","text":" Swiss producer Dimlite and his NowAgain label boss Eothen Alapatt, better known as Egon, clearly function with the same voracious appetite for crate digging. Egon's label has released everything from library music to Brazilian psychedelia, as well as their staple funk and souloriented work. Dimlite's prior album, the 2010 release Prismic Tops, worked off the hiphop template he generally beds his sound in, then guzzled a rich bounty of conflicting styles, all cut together without too many joints showing. Grimm Reality behaves in much the same way, except fuller, faster, brighter, and with even more colors ladled into the mix. It's the best kind of grabbag pop, where each idea is never labored over long enough for it to get old, retaining the same kind of ADDinfused freshness riddled through the Avalanches' Since I Left You or Beastie Boys' Paul's Boutique. Like those records, Grimm Reality is fired up by a constant desire to disarrange, to put everything together then gleefully throw it all up in the air and watch where the pieces land. But that impulse is mollified by a degree of control. Dimlite may take great joy in jerking his audience from Krautrock to funk to candycoated pop tones, but he's got a way of getting from AZ that makes it more palatable than jarring. His whimsical approach is mirrored in trainofthought song titles like \"Blur, Blur, Blur, Blur\", \"Through the Grimms/Stars Down\", and \"One of Uh Infinity's Countless Uh Tiny Cycles\". Anyone thumbing through sleeves in a record store may mistake Grimm Reality for a Liars or Pavement side project after a cursory glance at the song titles, and the music often bears many allusions to rock. \"Pour Some Blood, We Got This\" even sounds like one of the pitcheddown vocal experiments Beck was fostering back on Stereopathetic Soulmanure. The useonceanddestroy approach means we never get back to such terrain, but the strength of Dimlite's ideas make the constant forward thrust worthwhile. When he digs into Canlike bass repetition on \"Blur, Blur, Blur, Blur\" or the freshfaced, newage drift of \"Yes, Welcome\", it may feel like he's reaching down into areas he could gouge out a little more. But there's always another twist worth navigating, whether it's through the Beach Boyslike harmonies of \"XY\" or the mutant funk of the closing \"Heroine Roof\". This is multitask composition, where it feels like Dimlite has a thousand different ideas stacked up in his sampler, all begging for attention at the same time. Sometimes his attempt to sate those voices falls flat the meandering postrock feel of \"Healing a Random Tyrant\" lacks the clarity on display elsewhere but he's quickly back on his feet with the deliriously spasmodic funkpop of \"Than Them\". Grimm Reality is an album that ebbs and flows, occasionally slipping into turgid culdesacs (particularly on the malformed bass grind of \"Fridge Note\"), but rarely failing to move relentlessly ahead of itself to make up for lost ground. When Dimlite is at his most successful, he's drawing on strands from everything around him at dizzying speed. \"One of Uh Infinity's Countless Uh Tiny Cycles\" is the best example of that, with wild psychedelic organ, motorik drum patterns, synth drones, and a great globule of distorted bass all churned together, somehow making sense in a space where none should be found at all. That track ends in a brief flurry of strings, completely incongruous to the feel of the rest of the track, but perfect as a way to shut it all down. Those kind of spaces are where Dimlite pulls all his strength, in the halflight between sense and nonsense. "}