{"label":" De Stijl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17295/homepage_large.53238156.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Jakob Olausson","title":"Morning & Sunrise","text":" Jakob Olausson's 2007 debut album Moonlight Farm was a brilliant psychfolk gem, and its strange, secluded aura was reinforced by the fact that, at the time, Olausson was living as a beet farmer in rural Sweden. Since then, Olausson has maintained a marginally higher profile, touring extensively with the likes of Wooden Wand and Matt Valentine, and performing freer forms of jazz/improv in his duo Sus & Jakob. Despite all this activity, Moonlight Farm seemed such a distinctive, standalone piece of work that it never seemed necessary to expect or require a sequel. So the appearance of Morning & Sunrise comes as a very pleasant surprise, particularly in that it finds Olausson returning to the evocative terrain of Moonlight Farm without simply repeating himself. On the surface, Morning & Sunrise would seem to be just as homemade as Moonlight Farm, but apparently the album has undergone several stages of mixing before being finished by Jarvis Taveniere of Woods. The completed work is slightly less folky, more electric and more rockinclined than its predecessor, and in several places it sounds not all that far removed from the lofi Woodsist/Captured Tracks axis. Yet using primarily the simple tools of doubletracked vocals and echocoated guitars, Olausson still creates his own inimitable narcotic atmosphere, and even at its most propulsive his music retains a unique sense of timedistorting gravity. And if nothing else Morning & Sunrise certainly shows that Olausson still knows how to cultivate a little mystique. The album comes wrapped in a sleeve that is a perfect recreation of exactly the sort of private press obscurity that collectors love to find in the Goodwill bins, and Olausson is characteristically vague about the album's personnel. So when trace elements of percussion or gentle loping bass emerge from the soupy mix, there is no telling who is playing, and it is possible (if not probable) that everything is being overdubbed by Olausson himself.  This sense of facelessness suits Morning & Sunrise just fine, as in the final mix all the instruments blend into the same gauzy frame regardless, with Olausson's moody, Skip Spencelike baritone nodding off in front. Given the album's powerful loner/outsider vibe, most listeners might be conditioned to expect Olausson's songs to show signs of being somehow disturbed or depressive. Oftentimes, however, on Morning & Sunrise the opposite is true, and on such tracks as \"Don't Drown in Sorrows\" or \"When Your Bridges Burned\", his lyrics can read almost as quiet motivational speeches, as though he intends to give the most laconic pep talks in history. \"You don't know what you're asking, when you're asking him to stay,\" he advises some unseen friend, \"Trying to keep him close to you is just pushing him away.\" This element of sage guidance has a disorienting effect when coupled with the music's sedative flow, particularly when followed by the likes of \"Neptune\" or the title track, where Olausson's vocals can periodically disintegrate completely into the darkening echoes, sounding as if the oracle has faded after it has provided as much counsel as it can. Transfixing as his voice and words can be, on \"Riding on the Wind\" and \"Doctor's Deeds\" his guitar work is deceptively lucid and wholly captivating. And though there are fewer unexpected instrumental flourishes than on Moonlight Farm, there are discreet touches a ghostly whistle here, a shuffling country rhythm there on every track to reward those ready to sink deeper into the music's enveloping grip. As a whole the album makes an excellent companion piece to Moonlight Farm, even if it lacks some of that record's initial otherworldly, wheredidthiscomefrom impact, and raises anticipation for further dispatches from Olausson in the future. "}