{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17290/homepage_large.56fa44ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Brodinski","title":"Fabriclive 60","text":" It baffles me when a DJ receives praise for weaving together different subgenres of electronic dance music. Techno and techhouse? Electro and Italo? Wasn't that, like, the second thought people had after they realized they could mix records? (Somewhere in New York, Nicky Siano is sitting in a rentcontrolled apartment spinning Led Zeppelin into Bobby Womack, laughing his ass off.) This dynamic matters, as France's Brodinski is one of a wave of European artists who have come to prominence as much for their mixing skills as for their productions (see also: Jackmaster). Fabriclive 60 is Brodinski's second commercial mix in addition to a handful of downloads, and while it's correct to say that he deploys an array of genres during his 75 minutes on the decks, it's more constructive to think of FL60 as a collection of whinnying, vocally oriented dance tracks that Brodinski meticulously bends to his will. Brodinski has a way with these tracks that forces you to forget or disregard genre distinctions. During a potent threesong stretch, he moves from house (Renaissance Man's \"Stalker Humanoid\") to UK funky (T. Williams' \"Heartbeat [Paul Woolford Remix]\") to footwork (John Roman's \"Petrified\"), a game of genrehopscotch capable of making your head spin. The result, though, isn't discombobulated or showy. \"Petrified\" isn't a DJ curveball or change of pace: It's a siren, because the mix required a siren. An old athletic scouting maxim: Don't tell me what a player can't do; tell me what he can. So it goes with Brodinski, who doesn't look at a track's particular rhythmic and tonal variances as obstacles; he uses a deft hand to tease out what they do have in common. FL60 is as fun and freewheeling a mix as you'd expect from someone who recently named his label Bromance Records. For dance music fans mostly focused on Berlin and London, FL60 is a treat. Brodinski drags along relative unknowns and newcomers like Gesaffelstein, TWR72, and Renaissance Man. Switch and Andrea Martin's incredible, inflammatory ballad \"I Still Love You\" deserves every bit of additional exposure it gets. Brodinski's own remix (as Gucci Vump) of Woodkid's \"Iron\" is a stormy, brassstained anthem. When Brodinski isn't painting in big, bold strokes like this, he strings you along with righteous, uptempo thumpers from the likes of Instra:mental and Samuel L. Session. Fabriclive 60 features no agenda save perhaps making you and Brodinski grin. It's not a genre exploration (dBridge and Instra:mental's Fabriclive 50, Pearson Sound) or an artist showcase (Omar S, Ricardo Villalobos). It's not even really a \"party\" mix, though you could use it as such. Brodinski isn't as varied and creative a mixer as Jackmaster, but he has an ear for vocal melodies and a healthy lack of tunnelvision when it comes to genres. It's enough to make FL60 one of the series' more surprising, flatly enjoyable offerings. "}