{"label":" Shitkatapult","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17297/homepage_large.8adad276.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"Oval","title":"OvalDNA","text":" Glitch is one of those microgenres that seemed to disappear halfway through the last decade. When the German outfit Oval early on reduced to founding member Markus Popp made its return in 2010 with O, it was hard to decide how to react. Especially since O was one of its most difficult and fussy efforts yet, and largely divorced from Oval's previously established and instantly recognizable aesthetic as heard on landmarks like 94 Diskont and Ovalcommers. With a palette based on the sound of live instruments, O lacked some of the algorithmic wizardry of Popp's best work and was a fatiguingly lengthy listen either way. You'd be forgiven for thinking that OvalDNA, coming just a year later and clocking in with another 25 tracks and this after the complementary 15track 12\" Oh is something like overkill. Here's the surprise: OvalDNA is actually a collection of bits and bytes from assorted Oval eras past. The even bigger surprise? While it indeed sounds like the old Oval we know and love, there's nothing even remotely scatterbrained or assorted about this one. Not only is OvalDNA remarkably consistent and thematically sound, it's so wellsequenced that its 25 tracks fly by in a glorious, easygoing blur, a far cry from that fatal fragmentation that ate away at O. Its variety renders these sounds in a fluid and volatile technicolor missing from even early records like Systemisch. In a way, it's the best of both Oval worlds.  Included in the package is a DVD with ten bonus tracks, a music video, a documentary, and 2000 AIFF files of sounds and elements from the entirety of Popp's musical output \"intended for music producers.\"  Okay, so maybe it's a little overkill, but coming from an artist who made a public installation inviting people to render their own interpretations of his work (as part of 2000's Ovalprocess), it shouldn't really come as a surprise either. Like so much of this music, sometimes it's hard to tell whether or not the decay and destruction that pries apart the layers is accidental or planned, but here the manipulation feels effortless, executed with a smart and steady hand. There are many varieties of Oval on offer, though it's most often a warmhued, even honeyed sound palette rather than the acerbic distortion of, say, Ovalcommers. While some tracks like \"Savvy\" do focus on harsher, more challenging sounds, even these or the hushed, rushed thermal swooshing of \"70 Kino\" and its choked string section feel oddly accommodating. OvalDNA doesn't dip into the same well of asceticism as the conceptually driven sounddesign experiments you'll find on labels like Mille Plateaux or RasterNoton; instead, each stutter and skip feels melodically driven, each sample caught and clipped midmoment like a key to some larger world of musical delights that we're given glimpses of but are never actually led to dig the teases at jungle on \"Mare Fax\" on account of the album's sprightly pace. Even if it can be a tease, some moments on OvalDNA are downright welcoming: It's hard to think of anything from Oval since the legendary \"Do While\" as beautiful as \"Australasia\". One of the album's more compositionally complete tracks, it juggles jerkily plucked strings, organs that whir to life before being pulled apart into groaning rumbles, and drums that stutter across the stereo spectrum at random. That might sound like a mess, but the elements just slightly coalesce to form a stirring, hearttugging refrain gently morphing over the track's threeandahalf minutes, a chief example of the accidental alchemy of OvalDNA. \"Octaeder 0.2\", which formed the centerpiece to Oval's live contribution to the Henri Pousseur tribute 4 Parabolic Mixes, proves the emotional potential of these flurries of compressed ones and zeroes, while the more recent Oval material is at least coincidentally referenced with a number of tracks that make liveinstrument samples their focus (\"Credit Line\"), stumbling on an odd hybrid of acoustic and computerized sounds in the process, like twang rendered with right angles. Approachability is one thing, and OvalDNA has it in spades, but there's also the issue of relevance: Can a veteran act in a largely outmoded genre still command attention with an outtakes collection? Certainly, any fan of Oval (particularly those lapsed after O) will find a lot to love in OvalDNA's gentle reassurances, but even for a newcomer, these sounds are idiosyncratic and stimulating enough to get lost in. OvalDNA is curiously timeless, as if these tracks were encased in amber, still holding that intriguingly alien gleam and shine as back in Oval's halcyon days, even polished up a little nicer this time. It might not be something we knew we still needed, but at the least, OvalDNA is a solid addition to the canon of one of the most innovative electronic acts of the 1990s. "}