{"label":" Fire / Guided By Voices, Inc.","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17288/homepage_large.fb13da00.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Guided By Voices","title":"Let's Go Eat the Factory","text":" Over the years, there were many Guided by Voices: the R.E.M.obsessed, fidelitybedamned early GBV; the highkicking, harddrinking, marathonshowing GBV; the Ric Ocasekproduced GBV with those misguided commercial ambitions. But, seven years after the band's 2004 bowout and a decade and a half on from the peak of their powers, it's the Guided by Voices of the mid1990s from which their legend truly springs all those long, beery Dayton nights with little more than a fourtrack, a couple 30racks, and an endless supply of inebriant inspiration. Those few years saw those five knockaround guys wrenching every good idea they'd ever had into some of indie rock's most enduring music: Propeller, Bee Thousand, Alien Lanes, Under the Bushes Under the Stars, and countless singles, EPs and oneoffs. That Guided by Voices? They're back. When frontman Bob Pollard retired the Guided by Voices name in 2004, any and all cries of \"why?\" were cut with a strong undercurrent of \"what's it matter?\" At that point, roughly a dozen dudes had passed through the band's ranks, with the Fading Captain himself serving as its only constant. Pollard, in a rare display of predictability, went on to make a mess of solo records with a gang of lateera GBVers; the rocksolid Boston Spaceships, with whom he produced his best hiatus music, found prebreakup bassist Chris Slusarenko in the passenger seat. But when this socalled classic era band of Pollard, Tobin Sprout, Greg Demos, Mitch Mitchell, and Kevin Fennell splintered sometime around 1996, Guided by Voices changed irrevocably: Pollard's songs grew knottier, flashier, and more professional, with wouldbe rock star Pollard making what sometimes felt like a lastditch effort to make music that would place him in the arenas and over the airwaves that his old band had been too rough around the edges to attract. A reunion of that lateera Guided by Voices would've been nice, but it wouldn't have meant much. And, while watching the classic band run through \"14 Cheerleader Coldfront\" to a sea of upraised fists was a thrill, it's that GBV with their scrappy, songaminute, attention deficient charm intact you'd hoped for another album from. That album, Let's Go Eat the Factory, couldn't have come from any other Guided by Voices. Spotty, strange, all short songs and shitty sound, it's got the collagist careen of Bee Thousand and Propeller and the tumbling tunecraft of Alien Lanes and Under the Bushes Under the Stars. Recorded at the homes of Tobin Sprout, Greg Demos, and Mitch Mitchell, there's an offthecuff, fuckaround charm to many of its best moments that's very much in keeping with those classicera records. The songs Pollard brings to Factory hew closer toward his leaner, odder, mid90s songwriting than just about anything he's done since, and Tobin Sprout has clearly been saving some of his best material. Demos, Mitchell, and Fennell are, as ever, playing with more spirit than proficiency, which, like so much about Factory, is as it should be. Factory, with its oneanddone hooks and jumpy construction, just feels like a Guided by Voices record. For the diehards, little else could matter more. Of the now five GBV LPs from this classicera band, though, Factory comes up shortest in the song department. Over the years, Pollard's worked most of the lousy melodies out of his system, and though his contributions here vary wildly in tone and texture, he's gotten pretty consistent when it comes to tunefulness. Constancy proves a bit of a hobgoblin here; the more straightaway powerpoppers like muscular lead single \"The Unsinkable Fats Domino\" zip by quickly and not unpleasantly, but they feel just a little overcooked, never quite hanging around in one's head the way some of his stranger contributions do. Throughout Factory, though, he seems more comfortable with his refound surroundings than genuinely inspired by them, and his contributions here, while uniformly solid, display only flashes of the oneman hitparading of his glory days. Peppy lead single \"The Unsinkable Fats Domino\" hearkens back beautifully to the shootfromthehip powerpopping of old, while soused singalong \"My Europa\" and stackedtothesky rockers \"Imperial Racehorsing\" and \"We Won't Apologize for the Human Race\" bring the trickiness of his laterera compositions down to the basementlevel. But for every sign of life, there's some shrugworthy stuff like the stormy, stuttering \"Either Nelson\" or the pretty but slight \"Chocolate Boy\" to match. And, where the classicera GBV would stitch together bits of different songs to create a 90second patchwork of pure pop, those seams are better concealed here, to their detriment. The farty flute kickoff to \"Doughnut for a Snowman\" nods to those sputtering constructions of old, but it feels a bit perfunctory, a sound effect where a fleck of dumbass brilliance like Alien Lanes' \"Hit\" might've otherwise gone. One gets the sense Bob hadn't been shoring away the best stuff like his old pal Toby, and while he's fully engaged with the proceedings in a way he sometimes hasn't been on his hiatusera solo records, he doesn't come away from Factory with a single tune that can hang with the dozens of enduring tossoffs that populate the beloved mid90s records. While Bob seems to be reacclimating himself, Factory finds Tobin Sprout more ready to get back into it. Much has been made of how little Pollard's voice has changed over the years, but then again, he's been practicing. Sprout whose sweeterthanhoney pipes and breezy songwriting proved Pollard's bestever foil. The collection finds him sounding younger than ever, his voice cutting through the din of his six striking contributions. \"God Loves Us\" by some distance, the set's best finds him flipping a Ben Franklin quote over an effortless guitar chug that proves the album's one true glassraiser; he seems positively energized by the proceedings, turning in fatfree powerpoppers and lateLennon pindrop balladry and, in the case of the bifurcated \"Spiderfighter\", both in the same song. Pollard, to his credit, never seems to treat Factory like a solo LP with a few old friends in tow, but Sprout saw an opportunity and seized it, quietly stepping out of the shadows and stealing the show. Mitchell, Demos, and Fennell's contributions amount more to vibe than dazzle here; then as now, they'd never dream of stepping out in front of the song, and while Mitchell does get some shine on the Beefhearty \"The Big Hat and Toy Show\" his guitar snarling around a loopy Pollard vocal they mostly just seem happy to be there, glad to rediscover the collaborative chemistry that comes from playing with the same old guys for years. A month or so back, a rumor spread that GBV had once again called it quits. The truth of the matter was actually quite a bit more promising they'd cancelled all upcoming tour dates, presumably to work on new recordings but going by the breathless reaction to the initial news on Twitter, you'd have thought it was 2004 all over again. If nothing else, all the \"what's it really matter who Pollard's playing with?\" talk finds its definitive answer in the frustratingly satisfying Factory, a record that, if not quite up to snuff with what came before it on a songbysong basis, still gets along on the enduring brotherhood of its boozy creators. \"It's all taking shape in the room,\" Pollard sings on Factory's penultimate song, and for a guy who's made his fair share of records through the mail, that's the kind of statement of purpose you want him to be shouting. They may never hit upon a run as good as they did 15 years back few bands have but Factory's a better, weirder shot at it than anybody could've possibly expected. \"We are not the way we used to be,\" Sprout once sang. For now and with more on the way Factory's close enough for comfort. "}