{"label":" R&S","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17291/homepage_large.e41b8bbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"James Blake","title":"Love What Happened Here EP","text":" James Blake was such a central figure in the 2011 conversation that many folks lost sight of just how weird the London polywunderkind's indelible selftitled debut was and still is, especially as a breakthrough document of underground pop. However, for those attuned to the everchanging trends of the UK bass music scene specifically, listeners dazzled by Blake's phenomenal triptych of 2010 EPs, The Bells Sketch, CMYK, and Klavierwerke James Blake's reliance on pianobased singer/songwriter electrosoul perhaps played it a bit too safe, prompting comparisons to the onceoutré, nowgear spinning career of fellow avantcrooner Jamie Lidell. Despite a few fascinating Bsides and a particularly challenging double dose of dub released on the reliable bass label Hemlock, this fall's underwhelming Enough Thunder EP didn't do much to quiet the \"supper club\" cries. For those most interested in his soundwarping production, it comes as a relief that Blake chose to close the door on his prolific 2011 with another EP, Love What Happened Here. Undoubtedly his boldest collection of tunes since the minimalistic, spacey Klavierwerke EP, the release features Blake at his most restlessly playful, exploring new sounds and styles while also expanding on his already varied body of work. Newcomers brought in by the fulllength will undoubtedly find the tracks intriguing; for the rest of us, it's a reassurance that he still possesses his unique, inventive approach to sound. Even though Love What Happened Here is a \"new\" release, its sidelong title track's been floating around the internet since the beginning of 2011, surfacing a few weeks before James Blake saw proper release. Like many others, I first heard it in radio rip form following its premiere on former BBC Radio 1 DJ Benji B's program. The novelty of listening to the tune was enhanced by Benji's breathless recounting of when he first heard the song during one of Blake's DJ sets. His excitement was, and is, understandable: \"Love What Happened Here\" seems to take pleasure in announcing its own presence, as zesty organ stabs unfurl the red carpet down which the track's other elements a sharp clickclacking beat, disparate vocal samples, warm pinging tones saunter with ease. Revisiting the rip, I wish Benji had quieted down during my favorite part when, at the 49second mark, James lets loose a tickly, conversational melodic run of tones that sound improvisational as if he's caught in a state of pure ecstasy for a second or two before slowly unfolding into the song's light, funky groove. Blake's best work has always been detailoriented, providing the ability to take pleasure in the smallest things that are or aren't there. Like his \"second version\" of The Bells Sketch's \"Give a Man a Rod\" that appeared on Hessle's 2011 compilation 116 and Rising, \"Love What Happened Here\" is about those small things, stringing them together into a coherent whole that, if put in a particle generator and separated molecule by molecule, would still yield minor revelations. If \"Love What Happened Here\" represents James Blake at his most purely entertaining, then the EP's two Bsides find him at his most engagingly experimental. Like many of his contemporaries in the UK bass scene, \"At Birth\" is Blake's take on house music proper only, this is house music done his way, a 4/4 beat speckled with blurry tones and strangled voices, including his own. After hearing him do the straightandnarrow thing with his distinctive voice for the last 12 months, it's certainly a treat to find him stretching the limits of his own vocal manipulation, especially when it's used in such a haunting fashion. Love What Happened Here's closing track, \"Curbside\", is an entirely different beast and quite possibly the most surprising piece of music we heard from him all last year. Employed in able fashion at the closing minutes of Pearson Sound's fantastic BBC Essential Mix back in November, \"Curbside\" is a seriously stoned slice of beattape paranoia, a locked groove trapped beneath tumbling drums, suffocated voices, and pure aural steam. Structurally, it most closely recalls the brokenweathervane hiphop of J Dilla's Donuts cut \"The Twister (Huh, What)\", and I've heard other colleagues throw out comparisons to the Bomb Squad's confrontational production and the primordial stew of Los Angeles' Low End Theory collective. None of those comparisons are wrong, but they're not exactly right: Both as a standalone single and a piece of James Blake's catalog, \"Curbside\" is entirely, idiosyncratically unclassifiable. Since its title track floated around for almost a year before its proper release, there's been speculation that Love What Happened Here is a clearinghouse release that the diminishing returns found within Enough Thunder could very well be more representative of where he's heading as an artist. As an optimist, I'm willing to take such speculation as just that, especially since interspersed releases like the \"Pan\" b/w \"Order\" single have suggested that Blake's more about following his fickle muse than adhering to some sort of preset career path. Either way, given his still impressively prolific nature, there's a good chance we'll know his next move sooner than later. No matter what direction he's facing, though, James Blake continues to move as an artist, and the thrill of witnessing those movements hasn't dulled. "}