{"label":" Lookout!","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1599/homepage_large.2dfbfd0b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brendan Reid","artist":"Cost","title":"Chimera","text":" What is The Cost? The true cost, the human cost, the material cost? Few can say. From what I hear on the Internet, though, the band is damn cute (especially that drummer, Mikey!). Telegenic, even. They're also vaguely \"punk\" (more screamo than anything else), which makes them the perfect talent for this sitcom I've been developing. Here's the pitch: \"The Angular Family\"! Four strapping exemplars of today's disjointed youth all living under the same roof! Sometimes heartwrenching, always hilarious! You don't even have to write a script, for Christ's sake, just take some of the more intelligible lines from Chimera and, you know, put 'em together. Eg., Episode I (Stephen Bites Off His Own Tongue):[The Angular Kids are gathered in their pastelwalled breakfast nook, calmly eating Cheerios, when STEPHEN runs in.] STEPHEN: All is not well! SEAN: All hands attention! This plane's going down! STEPHEN: The last three weeks have been a drawnout train wreck! As time sheds its bruises I'm left in its wake! SEAN: I have reoccurring nightmares of dying in airplanes! MIKE [Looks to the camera, smiles]: This is not the worst part![cue laugh track] Gold! Maybe they can even bring the band thing into the show, a little antiPartridge action, though they'd have to work on the music. Okay, I mean, sure, they're angular, angular like a Cubist fox, but is it good angular? Angles have to be put in the proper places to make shapes, and the math has to work out right (180 degrees in a triangle, 360 in a square); you can't just stick them anywhere you want. And you sure as hell can't announce almost every tempo or timesignature change with a fullband pause. I mean, sometimes these kids break my heart following that chiseled Fugazish drum intro on the first track with all that flabby distortion and flatly declamatory angst, or periodically dragging \"Left in Its Wake\" down into a slower tempo just for the sake of math. It's a shame, really; on the more straightforward rock tracks (\"Hated Man\") and the ones that sustain the quiet side of the dynamics seesaw (\"Symptomatic\"), the band's anger actually sounds like something more than Drive Like Jehu on autopilot. And the target audience: Kids! Kids love angles! And maybe if we can squeeze a few more \"relationship\" issues into the script (I assume they've got them, though I can't make heads or tails of those lyrics), maybe a lifethreatening disease or two, we could probably hook the older crowd who were too freaked out by Frodus when they were doing the same thing five years ago. So are you sold or what? "}