{"label":" Profound Lore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17303/homepage_large.b931f131.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Wold","title":"Freermasonry","text":" The catchall criticism for noise as a form of music is that, because it often seems so unordered and illogical, it must be simple and pedestrian. Play some for a cynic, and short of outright disapproval, you'll probably be greeted with a categorical response: \"I could do that, too.\" There are a handful of mostly irrefutable ways to come back at that idea \"Well, you didn't,\" for instance, or, \"OK, tell me how.\" But don't be so snappy, not yet: Noise music, at least for me, should retain some element of mystery, some air of unknowing; after all, if it's an intentional obliteration of the structures and sounds you've known from the first time you heard \"Electric Company\" or \"Sesame Street\", it should force you to ask the most basic questions of what it is, how it is made, and why it is made. And in the quest for those illusory answers, the best noise, drone, and sound experimentation should either pull you in or blow you away, reaffirming that the thing itself is more provocative than the motions behind it. This is all to say that Freermasonry the obliterative sixth album from Wold, the Saskatchewan act led by the incredibly named Fortress Crookedjaw is ultimately enigmatic and entirely unknowable, an intersection of noise, metal, and electronics that doesn't yield to such plainclothes criticism. Mean, dense and multivalent, with a lyrical conceit based on Masonic symbolism and Biblical scripture, it's the rare loud music that begs to be louder still if you're to have any chance of understanding it. Freermasonry is a case study in controlling the illusion of chaos, an elegantly constructed nightmare of sound where hearing one layer of serrated screams, static bursts, and feedback flares means you've missed some mass of activity somewhere else. Weirdly seductive rhythms tumble beneath a laundromat of blownout tones and crackling vocals, generally pulling your attention a dozen different ways. I've been listening to the album consistently for three months now, and somehow, I'm still surprised by what its 58 minutes sound like and accomplish. Paradoxically disorienting and direct, Freermasonry is a constant tumult of surprising activity, more unforgiving than most everything in the noise, metal, and drone scenes, places where Wold kind of fits. It's not an album you casually hear and dismiss by saying, \"Oh, yeah, I could've made this.\" (Even defining the \"this\" is hard enough.) Remember how those backwards rock'n'hits sounded vaguely demonic? Imagine those sounding truly malevolent, but with solid structure, buried subtlety, and an ideology developed well past the point of boogeyman Satanism. Freermasonry isn't Wold's most damaging effort; the slyly named 2010 disc Working Together For Our Privacy turned three songs into a 35minute suffocation, where an instantaneous deluge of distortion squashes everything beneath. About 2008's torturous Stratification, Wold member Obey once said, \"We transmogrified the idea of our soundscape to fit the notion of an unrelenting winter storm.\" This time, Wold actually make some concessions to cohesive album flow, beginning with the twominute garble \"Opening\" and always putting a relatively short track (be that three or six minutes) between 11 and 12minute strangleholds. With its faulty clickclack rhythm and mix of lascivious and lugubrious lyrics, the strangely alluring \"Dry Love\" essentiallly sounds like Cold Cave with its Prurient component grossly amplified. With its disruptive subdural bass and fiveverse structure about \"bloody crescent moons,\" \"Annex Axe\" even suggests dubstep (think Coki) ground down by a blender. Similarly accessible moments dot Freermasonry, from the jumbled dance that starts the closing title track to the rocklike eruption that begins \"SOL\". But don't take those references as hints that Wold are somehow taking it easy; rather, these moments of relief or familiarity simply make everything else that much more punishing, so that, when the beat all but disappears on the title track after several minutes, you actually mourn it. This album always peaks at its most extreme, especially with a series of three long, harsh sermons of invective \"Free Goat of Leviticus\", \"Dragon Owl Didactisism\", and \"Working Tools for Praxis\". With quoted Scripture and a developed revisionist theology, these tracks harangue definitive Biblical heroes, positing that \"Peter epitomizes the sadomasochistic spirit of the New Covenant\" and, later, \"Lucifer… is a better tomorrow and the bringer of a future.\" The sound matches the spirit perfectly, with threedimensional folds of splintering static and garbled lines creating an anxiety strong enough to shake any beliefs. "}