{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17299/homepage_large.e02aafab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Mighty Sparrow","title":"Sparrowmania! Wit, Wisdom and Soul From the King of Calypso","text":" Trinidadian calypso, like 1980s rap, is the sound of current events masquerading as dance music. Or, put another way, it's a style that uses the social space of the dancefloor to deliver news and opinion. Great calypso singers exploit the same idea your kindergarten teacher did: That lessons are more happily and subliminally learned when set to rhythm and song. No singer has had a longer career in calypso and soca than Mighty Sparrow. He was born in 1935, won his first major prizes in 1956, and still tours. His best anthologies are considered starting points for anyone exploring the genre a project I accept is probably off the radar for a lot of listeners, especially in North America, where \"calypso\" has the unfortunate reputation as that stuff they play in the background of ads for allinclusive vacation packages. The music supporting calypso singers is catchy and formulaic, and like all catchy, formulaic music, it requires craft and discipline a calypso band is only as good as its ability to subtly vary its tunes without upstaging its singer. The music, affable and upbeat as it may be, is backlighting for its singer. Sparrow's personality is big, complex, and contradictory. He plays the fool for two verses only to prove his wisdom in the third. He boasts and judges. He unwittingly insults himself with a huge grin on his face. On \"Jean and Dinah\", for example, he celebrates the departure of American soldiers because it'll give him a better chance to score a hooker. Politics and sex are treated with the same irreverence both, after all, are just stages for human folly. Sparrow songs offer a perfect kind of satisfaction, the kind viewers get from the neat circles of sitcoms and folktales. At the end, everyone often including Sparrow himself ends up out on their asses. His sense of humor is particular to the marginalized and disenfranchised. The past 500 years of Trinidad's history is a history of occupation first by the Spanish from Columbus' time until the end of the 18th century, when it was surrendered to the British, and used as a naval hub by the United States during World War II. Sparrow's songs hint at imperialism and national identity, but in the lighthearted way of someone who ultimately can't do anything about them. Laughter, in essence, is the source of Sparrow's intelligence but also of his selfpreservation. On \"Don't Go, Joe\", for example which can be found on the compilation Volume One Sparrow sings about an American soldier who seduces his sister, Millie and then runs back to his wife and kids, but not before Millie pickpockets him. In a surprising line, he witnesses the soldiers crying in port. This shakes his expectations of them for a second, they're humanized. The song is at its core a comedy, but one shot through with the heartache of watching the imperialists have their way. Unfortunately, neither \"Jean and Dinah\" nor \"Don't Go Joe\" are on Sparrowmania!. None of his best songs are, really. The collection's cover has a nice, vintage feel, the kind that says we're a comprehensive reissue label that cares about quality and selection, and while Strut has released some highquality compilations, this isn't one of them. Ultimately, it's just another collection in a pile of Sparrow collections divided between incisive, entertaining tracks, fiveminute doubleentendres about boners, and oneoff experiments cherrypicked from a long and inconsistent career. Also, the sound is curiously awful, as if the music were mastered from a crankedup transistor radio. Ah! how it pains me to type that. People deserve a twodisc Sparrow comp to bury all other Sparrow comps, but this isn't it (Smithsonian's First Flight, from 2005, is much better, though it falls off before Sparrow hit his prime). It's all sad and fitting, in a way: Music from a former colony gets marginalized by imperialist countries, haphazardly packaged, and easily ignored. Hopefully, it's the kind of joke Sparrow can take. "}