{"label":" Jets International","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17300/homepage_large.7a1c348d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jeff Weiss","artist":"Jet Life","title":"Jet World Order","text":" Rap's no stranger to backronyms. WuTang was the Witty and Unpredictable, Talented and Natural Gang. Thug Life became the Hate U Give Little Infants Fucks Everyone. But none is arguably more fitting than the J.E.T.S.' motto: Just Enjoy This Shit. At a time when rap's standardbearers are often unnaturally saccharine or overbearingly Eeyorish, Spitta, Smoke DZA, Mikey Rocks, Fiend, Young Roddy, and Trademark da Skydiver are preternaturally indifferent to the perils of fame. Jet World Order is Alfred E. Neuman rap. What me worry? Just listen to the drawling hook of \"Exhale\": \"Never stressing over chicks or ends/ Light it up, inhale, exhale/ Blow it in the wind.\" No need to trip when you're chemically focused on weed, women, and the winner's circle. This album has less range than the menu at InNOut, but no one ever went there looking for tacos. Theoretically, such tired terrain should make a record more dull than watching Adult Swim sober. But credit Curren$y and company for emulating the weed they smoke: They know to make being bored seem fun. A former member of the 40man roster of No Limit and understudy at Cash Money, Curren$y has clearly absorbed the labelbuilding strategies of his former patrons. Wisely, he's recruited a likeminded set that rarely diverges from his aesthetic, but maintains enough identity to stay alert. There's Fiend, the No Limit soldier and Ruff Ryders refugee in the midst of a minor renaissance, who pops up on  \"Picture Perfect\" with a flow so smooth it should be permanently draped in a scarlet silk smoking jacket. DZA, the \"fat boy of the set\" brings a dilated Uptown cool, munching on crawfish, and bragging about how your girlfriend Tweets at him. Trademark and Roddy get the most green lights, and while both acquit themselves, neither is yet a threat to take pole position. The compilation's purpose is selfevident: to leverage Curren$y's star and earn attention for his set. It's a role that rap crews have regularly employed since at least Marley Marl's In Control, Volume 1. Most of the time, it's a mixed bag, depending on the label, its roster, and how much weed was wasted that day in the lab. Jet World Order doesn't exactly break the mold. But what it lacks in cohesion, it covers in aimless cool. And with slowroasted soul supplied by Monsta Beatz, Cookin' Soul, et al., the beats neatly align with the lowlidded laissez faire of the rappers. Jet World Order is the bizarro stoner twin of Self Made, Rick Ross' Maybach Music comp from last year. Rozay, Pill, Meek Mill, and Wale are the connoisseurs who want to get high from a $500 volcano, order useless gadgets from Brookstone, and eat expensive room service off arthropod platters. The Jets twist spliffs and make their women bring them take out. For all their occasional avarice, they're weirdly sensible. On \"Exhale\", Curren$y brags about still watching DVDs on the Playstation and spotting good commercial real estate deals. He manages to offer frugal relatibility and an aspiration ideal. Wellplayed. Rap is predicated on the idea of who would you want to get high with. And right now, the Jets' run that lane. Rating an album like this feels like flipping through an issue of High Times, where obsessives blather in microscopic detail about the fluorescence and genetics of a new strain of sativa. Sure there's a couple of mediocre beats and a few too many boilerplate verses about getting blunted, but really, the only question that matters is whether you want to get high to this. You probably should just enjoy this shit. "}