{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17311/homepage_large.3f14682a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"Tin Man","title":"Vienna Blue","text":" If you don't know Tin Man Californiahailing, Viennabased Johannes Auvinen he's arguably one of modern techno's most cultish figures, with a distinct sense of fashion and aestheticism both visually and aurally. But is he really techno? He made his initial fame off the back of a bunch of fabulous acid 12\"s, but he's always had a darker, more experimental side, and since 2009's Cool Wave has been incorporating an introverted and dignified halfgoth, halfbaroque pop sensibility to his productions. Scared from 2010 was even less hospitable, all spooky atmospheres and postpunk vocals, and last year's followup, Perfume, brought back some of the technofriendly snares and kicks but still centered around Auvinen's offbeat, sometimes offkey baritone. For the most part, it wasn't dance music. But last year also saw the release of the \"Nonneo\" 12\", one of the year's most cherished techno missives, a gently bubbling acid bath. As 2011 wrapped to a close, Auvinen released another album, this one completely free of charge: but which Tin Man would we get, the weirdo dance auteur of \"Constant Confusion\" fame or something closer to Scared? The answer is neither. Inspired by his adopted home of Vienna, Vienna Blue is a gentle chamberpop record not like much else Auvinen has put to his name before. Real chamber stuff, with cellos and violins overshadowing most of the synthesized elements. Auvinen calls it a \"winter album,\" and the label fits: All cool hues of icy blue and white, Vienna Blue inhabits a chilly but cozy place that suits stereotypically romantic images of the Austrian capital draped in snow. It's not totally foreign; just as Perfume and Scared shyly hinted at techno elements and structures, the music on Vienna Blue shares that forwardthinking lateral movement, only this time expressed with the gentle strokes and plucks of strings, graceful rather than tracky. What can make Tin Man's music a little divisive what makes his albums difficult where his singles can be relatively smooth sailing is his own voice. Like a slurred and slovenly Stephin Merritt, he shares that singer's idiosyncratic sense of cultured class, but the cavernous space his vocals inhabit can be alienating and his melodies often feel makeshift or improvised. With the more tuneful accompaniment on Vienna Blue, however, his presence is less jarring: When his voice dips down to those dangerously low notes, it blends in with the bass instruments instead of billowing out into an uncomfortably empty echo chamber. \"Music on the Radio\" might be his best vocal track yet, in fact, with dramatic pianos and a laborious kick drum finding some happy medium between classically tinged instrumentation and techno. It's moments like this that raise Vienna Blue above sideproject gimmickry: \"Ice Blue Eyes\" pulses faintly with a barely there beat, like it's impossible to tell what's \"real\" and what's artificial. Throw in Auvinen's groggy vocals, and you've got yourself a gorgeous lullaby of flickering, halfpresent sounds. Vienna Blue is split between longer, more structured vocal tracks and instrumental interludes, which range from stringled motifs (\"Winterize\" is especially majestic) to nearambient mood pieces (\"Ok, Improvise\"). This lazily lapping flow nicely cuts up the length of the rather slowmoving record, but can just as easily render it drifting and aimless. The reallife instruments lend it a natural quality like sonic wallpaper that subtly blooms and and swells, but Vienna Blue lacks even the sparse momentum of his previous albums. The pleasantly slow creep of it all is rudely interrupted by the vocal tracks, and those times when the vocals don't quite mesh with their surroundings (\"Gratitude\") prove rather garish cracks in the record's otherwise uniformly glassy ice surface. As a whole, Vienna Blue is always caught between classicist ideas of the stately and that deeply experimental techno bent, so it never quite coheres. One thing Vienna Blue does make clear is Auvinen's uncompromising vision of his own style, folding in all sorts of latent impulses and confident to the point of confrontational. He remains defiantly independent from scene or context: Just as unfairly limiting as it is to call this chamber pop, it's equally ignorant to call it techno. \"Rockers, ravers, you best beware. This generation don't care,\" he sang on Perfume's \"Rockers Ravers\", and Vienna Blue caps off Tin Man's most intriguing year yet, proving he really doesn't give a damn about genre. It might not be perfect, but \"chamber techno\" probably shouldn't work as well as it does on the best moments here: Leave it to someone as effortlessly suave and fearless as Tin Man to try and pull it off. "}