{"label":" Eglo","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17310/homepage_large.ef1ffffa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Floating Points","title":"Shadows EP","text":" Versatility is tricky. Unless you're a legit polymath, it's as easy to spread yourself thin as it is to create compelling work across several spectra. Polymath may still be in play for Sam Shepherd: In addition to his work as Floating Points, he's a classically trained musician, (outré)jazz enthusiast and bandleader, an indemand DJ, and a PhD candidate in molecular genetics. He is the brainy, footloose heir to Four Tet's wildeyed beatsmith throne (London seat). In addition to his range, it's tempting to let these activities tell us something else about Shepherd: They all point toward studious refinement. Shadows, a 2x12\" nearing 40 minutes in length, suggests that Shepherd continues to filter his approach to rhythm and melody. To date Shepherd's varying output has bordered on the maximal. The Vacuum EP still one of the finest slabs of vinyl to emerge from a London scene that also gave birth to James Blake, Joy O, and Night Slugs found him painting outside the lines of house and bass music, spreading squelchy melodies that owed more to hippie jazz than club music. Since then he's remained sneakily busy, releasing a handful of tracks that sound generally brighter and more musical than those of his peers. In contrast, when \"Sais (Dub)\" dropped on Record Store Day last year, it sounded as if someone had jammed a mute into his trumpet: The track's smoky symphony of bass and beats barely hinted at his everpresent jazz melodies (an even more modest edit of \"Sais\" closes Shadows). A less generous reader of Shadows might skip \"refinement\" altogether and arrive at \"retreat.\" The record which represents the longest, most cohesive release Shepherd has offered sounds polite at low volumes (at most volumes, actually), and I wouldn't blame anyone for mistaking it for a headphone record. But Shadows benefits from volume; open air and clean walls amplify its details. Over the course of five long, progressive tracks, Shepherd offers a series of minor orchestrations, layering tasteful slabs of jazz (I'm assuming they're samples) over a dense crosshatch of bass and drum sequences. There are extended passages during which he offers little more than drum patterns at competing frequencies; \"Obfuse\" looms for more than three minutes before it hints at true melody. Elsewhere Shepherd is more forward. \"ARP3\" piles tasteful electronic keyboard over a sinister bassline that alternates between five and seven notes of passive evil. Any (sonic) ties Shepherd still has to London's bass scene can be seen in moments like \"ARP3\" and the distended fog of \"Realise\", during which he hijacks deep house's stoned haze and poisons it, however slyly. That he can perform such misdeeds and still come across as elegant, musical, and inspired speaks to a talent that was never really in doubt. "}