{"label":" JUKBOXR","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17317/homepage_large.2ed1444a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Arrange","title":"Five Years With the Sun EP","text":" From the remote musical enclave of Fort Lauderdale, the young electronic songwriter Malcom Lacey has posted five Arrange albums on Bandcamp over the past couple of years. High productivity is common among laptopwielding bedroom auteurs, but Lacey's no data dumper. Each release exhibits unity and care its own twist on a rapidly developing sound. The first one I discovered, before anyone knew much about Arrange, was Plantation, which I said was \"thoroughly a breakup record.\" But I was wrong. Now that Lacey has done a little press such as this interview with a South Florida weekly we know more. His first instrument was the piano; he's more inclined to slave over his ambient textures in private than to play shows in public; he likes Type Records and Perfume Genius. None of this was surprising. But one assertion caught me off guard: \"Most of my lyrical content stems itself from an abusive childhood and the relationship I share with my incarcerated father,\" with whom Plantation standout \"When'd You Find Me?\" was a \"oneway conversation.\" The revelation casts new light on Lacey's lyrics, which draw opposed qualities hostility and tenderness, discretion and confession, selfhatred and selfhelp into uneasy truces. (He'd have fit in well on Saddle Creek in the early 2000s.) On new EP Five Years With the Sun, Lacey is even more furtive than on Plantation, his halting voice washing in and out of audibility, and vanishing for long periods. In hushed tones, he dramatizes the process of a gentle person grappling with dark thoughts now scathing, now contrite, lashing out and lashing in. His reticence comes to seem like an impulse for selferasure, which makes the moments when he overcomes it feel especially poignant. Is this palpable struggle what distinguishes Arrange from a thousand similar peers? It certainly isn't the music's substance, a fairly standard amalgamation of synthpop, shoegaze, ambient, chillwave, and hiphop. Nor is it any iconoclastic style to the contrary, I prize its preternatural patience and humility. And Lacey is already developing a goto track structure, which has a smoothly churning undercarriage of piano or guitar tones, ranks of juicy synthetic plucks pulsing above, and mechanical drums splashing the edges of the beats; all topped off with a synth lead that flaps like a tattered banner in a sluggish wind. Maybe it's something even harder to quantify: that vigilant, moody, quietly rapturous sensibility. While the orders of the day are pleasantly zonedout or ethereally spiritual, Lacey's music feels almost feverishly alert, with breathcatching pauses and mercurial embellishments calling for close attention to its dreamy flow. Below the Kompaktisms, one hears the dulcet, revolving intervals of the lullaby. This is music as a ward or charm, its hermetic regularity holding a safe space against chaos. (It was recorded, I'm told, in a walkin closet.) It doesn't sound like a young man hunting for blog buzz. It sounds like a personal search for redemption, or at least some consolation, one moment at a time. Careful sequencing makes Five Years With the Sun feel like an act of tentative revelation through gradual ascent. The immediate pop songs are divided by obscure but quirkily elegant set pieces: \"Gone With the Snow\", where bizarrely treated vocals ride over glassy swells; \"Airplane Notes\", a study in nocturnal counterpoint. The force gathered on the first half rises to a vertex on \"Cure\", a burly production where Lacey opens up his voice with unaccustomed extroversion. \"Mt. Rainer\" vividly evokes traveling up switchbacks, the winds and vistas bending around, leading us up to the bright, clear peak of closer \"Sun Showers\", where all the album's fogs dispel. \"There's a glow/ and I can feel it,\" Lacey sings plainly, \"deep below the hollow point of me.\" A couple of inaudibly murmured lines later, we hear, \"the way I felt when I first heard it say…\" But the thought goes unfinished. Instead, a long instrumental passage culminates in a weary guitar anthem, then peters out into running waters. He's not the type to make a sound just to fill space; he waits until he knows what he has to say. That's what keeps me hanging on every moment. Enticingly, the openended conclusion of Five Years With the Sun promises more striving, more growth, more suffering and deliverance to come. "}