{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17318/homepage_large.917c5105.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Kinks","title":"Kinks in Mono","text":" When people say the Kinks are one of their favorite bands, they likely have a very specific Kinks in mind. And no, it is almost certainly not any version of the band that existed after 1970, though there were quite a few of them. There are good songs sprinkled through the latterKinks discography, sometimes even in generous clusters, but the band almost everyone means when they say \"The Kinks\" is really \"The Kinks in the 1960s.\" Sanctuary's new Kinks in Mono box collects the entirety of the band's 60s output, in mono, as the title implies, and in that respect, it's a can'tmiss collector's item. The music from this period of the band is unimpeachable, so really the question that surrounds a release like this is: Who needs it? If you're in any way prone to dropping $150 on a Kinks boxed set, there is a pretty good chance you already own all this music, and if you bought the individual album reissues Sanctuary released in 2011, you already have the albums in mono, because those reissues included both stereo and mono versions on separate discs (except for The Kink Kontroversy, which has only ever been available in mono). To be fair, it's a welldesigned package clearly created with a lot of love, and it does augment the band's first seven albums with three discs of mostly essential EP and nonalbum 45 tracks, but this, too, does little to distinguish it from those earlier releases, which were generously appointed with bonus material. There is a reason that the Kinks' catalog is so constantly revisited, of course its quality and enduring appeal pretty much ensure that record labels will be finding new ways to carve up the band's legacy and repackage it as long as people are willing to buy it in some sort of physical form. They established themselves early with their energy and their shreddedamp heaviness. Their albums, EPs, and singles from 1964 and 1965 are the most uneven included here, but the good stuff is really, really good. The punky, distorted guitars on \"You Really Got Me\", \"All Day and All of the Night\", and \"I Need You\" are still thrilling, and there are a lot of relative obscurities worth listening back to, from the sharp Merseybeat of \"You Still Want Me\" to Dave Davies' slow and yearning \"I Am Free\". The thing about listening to all of this band's 60s output at once is that it shows a very clearly and incremental progression from that material to the establishment of the band's signature identity as the British rock scene's foremost appreciators of English life. While almost every other songwriter working in a rock band at the time was talking about altered states or sticking it to squares, Ray Davies developed a vocabulary of traditional English life, and even mocked Carnaby Street fashion on \"Dedicated Follower of Fashion\". The Kinks were culture without the \"counter\" prefix, a rock band that anomalously acknowledged the dignity in the middleaged woman who went out and bought a hat like the one Princess Marina wore, the one that adopted the mannerisms of music hall without pastiche or irony, the one that sang about tea and gooseberry tarts and favoring neighborhood life over new patterns of development. The band's 60s output culminated in Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire), a sweeping panorama of a postwar Britain that had lost its longcherished identity, a portrait of a family about to be separated by a hemisphere's worth of ocean as the son and his wife move to Australia, leaving behind the title character to keep calm and carry on. I love psychedelia and teenage rebellion, but I get the sense that a whole lot more people lived in the England Ray Davies wrote about than in the one everyone else sang about. We're trained to think of things like Antonioni's BlowUp as the definitive portraits of London in the 60s, but that's just part of the story. Arthur standing on the dock is just as big a part, if not bigger. You'd be hardpressed to find a more sensitive extended document of this England than you can hear on this set. Whether you need to unload your wallet for it is another story. If you like the 60s Kinks but don't own any of their music and want to, well, here you go. You can't go wrong, and they're a band that presents well in mono. There's little in the way of audio experimentation on their records, and even their densest recordings, especially on Arthur, don't need the added depth of a stereo picture to succeed brilliantly (the mono versions are uniformly better in the car, for instance). So yes, the music's as brilliant as it ever was, and it's all here, wellhoused. The only question is whether that's enough. "}