{"label":" Escort","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17321/homepage_large.1f196f04.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Escort","title":"Escort","text":" The studio must be an oasis for Dan Balis and Eugene Cho, the leaders of Escort, New York's premier live disco ensemble. Do you have any idea how hard it is to play this stuff in a club without coming off like rank amateurs or soulless professionals? You have to be tighterthantight to replicate those metronomic rhythms, while also being loose enough to play through any inthemoment human glitches. You can't wrongfoot dancers, but you also can't be so precisiontooled that you lose the sense of abandon that's essential to any good party. You're not competing with a drum machine, which is tough enough to do. You're competing with Nile Rodgers' Chic, a much more forbidding proposition. In the safety of a recording booth, a band like Escort is allowed to flub multiple takes, correct any mistakes, and experiment without worrying about bringing the party down from its boil. They can tinker with their lush arrangements until they fit with the jigsawprecision that was required of disco bands in the genre's precomputer heyday. Escort is the result of all that fieriness and finetuning, the band's debut album after a drawnout series of singles, teasing fans for more than half a decade. On the evidence, Balis and Cho are two producers who've listened long and hard to the history of their favorite genre, and who care about getting both the little details and the overall Broadwaymeetsboogie vibe just right. They manage to replicate every Off the Wall horn blast and Patrick Cowley synth bubble with loving music geek precision. But Escort isn't just the pinnacle of 21stcentury disco fetishism. (Though it would be a singular achievement even if it were.) It's a great pop album, even if it's working off 1979's pop template rather than 2011's. Balis and Cho aren't quite up to Chic's level, obviously, as songwriters or players. But they've set themselves a similar task, out to prove that refinement and abandon aren't mutually exclusive. Like disco the first time around, Escort aims directly for the brain's pleasure centers, particularly the one marked \"bubblefunk,\" but there's also an intensity and attention to sound design that comes from being both an inthemoment live unit and studio rat tinkerers. All this astounding detail work is there to add extra thrills to songs that are instantly accessible, immediately charming. Rather than 12\"friendly extended disco remixes, these cuts are shaved down to the essentials. And the grooves would be strong enough with half the bells and whistles. Escort just want you to have a damned good time, even if you don't know Walter Gibbons from KC and the Sunshine Band. And they're willing to risk all sorts of cheesiness to get you there. So it's no accident that \"A Sailboat in the Moonlight\" seamlessly switches halfway thorough, from hammy musical theater to lascivious funk. The \"mutant disco\" scene and the precrossover Loft underground cuts may be the pieces of the disco pie most palatable to indiereared ears. But Escort remind revisionist critics that disco also had roots in supperclub schmaltz, showbizzy soul, and Las Vegas pomp. If there's a guiding spirit here, it's not benevolent weirdo Arthur Russell but master entertainer August Darnell at his most eager to please. The rhythm track on \"All Through the Night\" has the kind of crisp minimalism you find on the best DFA singles. But the rapidfire R&B sassiness of the vocal takes us straight to the roller rink on teen night. Sure, it wouldn't play at a roller rink now, competing with the brutalism of 2011's popdance producers, but Balis and Cho's hearts are in the right populist place. Escort take obvious pains that this update on one of pop's most opulently orchestrated of genres can stand, sonically, alongside the classics. Those strings! Even if they had the money, modern major labels still wouldn't lavish that much attention on recording a string section. And if that oldschool analog lushness is computer fakery, then I'm doubly impressed. But given Escort's rep for throwing down live, I doubt it. It's easy enough to press a button and unleash a sampled swirl of strings or a blast of brass. It's something else entirely to be orchestrating violinists and trumpet players through a sevenminute monster groove. That kind of commitment is one reason Escort have ascended to the top ranks of neodisco acts, swinging their way through the demands of disco with the consummate skill of the kind of crack big bands that were everywhere in the late 1970s. "}