{"label":" Rush Hour","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17325/homepage_large.4a0a7a06.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rush Hour Presents Amsterdam All Stars","text":" It says something about the state of electronic dance music that my favorite aspect of Rush Hour Presents Amsterdam All Stars is the fact that \"Vol. 1\" doesn't follow its title. Not that a second volume would be unwelcome; it's that we're in the midst of a run in which most compilations (from the big houses, at least) are weighty, extralong attempts to define a genre, rep a label, or map a career. They are, in other words, short historical arcs offered by a scene that is still learning how to manage its past. In this context, All Stars is a breath of fresh air, purporting to offer nothing more than a glimpse of the current house music talent operating in or originating from Amsterdam, Rush Hour's home base since 1997. The 12 exclusive tracks offered here are, as advertised, a set of raucous, 4/4 shakers born in the 1980s in Chicago but possessing updated wardrobes. Given the label it's hardly a surprise, but it bears mentioning that All Stars has absolutely nothing to do with the squeaky arenafodder known as \"Dirty Dutch\" or Dutch House. All Stars might plausibly be presented as an alternative were it not for the fact that the very existence of labels like Rush Hour and their fanbases are testaments to the desire for substitutes. (If a massive Afrojack fan hears this comp and has her eureka moment, I'll swear off colored vinyl for a year.) On the whole All Stars is dense and bold, casting off any minimalist impulses in favor of buzzy machinations that rely on manicured loops in lieu of samples. I hesitate to describe this as an \"Amsterdam sound,\" as it's more likely the result of a youthoriented lineup. Dexter, Melon, and Newworldaquarium constitute the old guard here, the latter's \"Liberty Hot\" being the comp's most sexual and incisive rhythm. But really the show is in the hands of contemporaries like Tom Trago, whose foggy, seesawing \"Once Upon a Time in Amsterdam\" stirs my urban Euro fetishism, and the perpetually ontheverge Juju & Jordash, whose brushedsteel drum programming is refreshingly aggressive. The standout newcomer is Maxi Mill, a producer confident enough to stop momentum midtrack to make way for a burrladen bassline. There are too many rote sawing strings and punchy synth pads, but Rush Hour proves that Amsterdam is big enough to supply the talent and small enough to prevent All Stars from seeming unwieldy or obvious. If there's an overarching goal here it appears to be to convince you that you could have a good time at an Amsterdam club on a Thursday without a touring DJ in town. UsedCD bins are stuffed with obscure and ultraspecific house compilations from the early 90s. All Stars' smallball focus is a throwback in this way; five years from now it will likely offer little utility, though I wouldn't make the same bet about the artists contained herein. "}