{"label":" Friends of Friends","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17323/homepage_large.b6296e8e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"Ernest Gonzales","title":"Natural Traits","text":" San Antonio's Ernest Gonzales has been the quiet cornerstone of the L.A.based Friends of Friends label, one of the American west coast's most consistently surprising dance outfits.  Gonzales' music is about the beauty of contrast and dichotomy, whether it's the collision of lifelike guitar and 8bit synthesizer on his previous solo album Been Meaning to Tell You or his mixture of the cinematic, sepulchral, and cultural with the downanddirty dancefloor as Mexicans With Guns. His latest album picks up on the themes of Been Meaning to Tell You, and as the title Natural Traits might suggest, brings those ideals of nature to a more genune hybrid. Natural Traits finds itself at home in a whitewashed world of pastel and rounded shapes, avoiding the hectic, everythingatonce sprawl of modern \"bass music\" (particularly the American variety) in favor of careful, deliberate movements. To call it simple would be diminutive, but there's something distinctly digestible and affable about the slowbutsteady way Gonzales builds his tracks. It's typified in the album's stately opener, \"The Prudence of Evolution\", methodically layering soft drums on top of chords on top of two delicate 8bit synth melodies that intertwine like DNA strands yet nimbly sidestep the juvenilia so often associated with the sugary sound. Those 8bit feelers are the dominant melodic device on Natural Traits, a thicket of flinty frequencies that never quite loosens its curious tension: The synth almost always sounds brittle and trebly, set against gorgeous, reverbheavy guitar jangle and a set of drum sounds that range from hollow to realistic. When the two opposites combine, as on the beautiful beatless centerpiece \"Peaks & Valleys\", the result is somewhere between summery indie rock and something more indebted to electronic music, a divide toed by the record with every track so that it occupies an inbetween space in keeping with its equally middleground array of sounds and textures. It's an attractive medium rather than a middling one, however; Gonzales' resolution is one that engenders approachability rather than dilution. As MOR as Natural Traits might sound, however, it willingly engages with dance music in a more direct way than Been Meaning to Tell You. Like his Mexicans With Guns project, however, they're rarely \"dance\" in a definitively genreindebted, quantized sense. Take highlight \"The Sentimental Sea\", Gonzales' riff on 130bpm house: The kick thumps balefully with little flourish, but a fluid, slippery loop brings it closer to something like sensual dub techno. That is, until Gonzales' warm streams of bass and uplifting guitar plucks flood the track's second half, turning it from arch savanthouse into a landscape teeming with lush life. Elsewhere, the percussion gets lost in a tug of war: In \"When Synchronicity Fails\", Gonzales anticipates the rigid housey lope with a billowing guitar riff that trips over itself, synthesizing syncopation out of thin air, while \"The Heroic Lives of Particles\" plays with swung dubstepleaning percussive patterns that lend a certain groove to the track's loose synth scribbles. They're moves that should be disorienting but instead sound easy in Gonzales' confident hands. Natural Traits succeeds largely on account of its relative modesty and transparency sometimes the most satisfying records are the ones where you can guess exactly how everything was built in the first place. Undoubtedly Gonzales' strongest statement yet, it comes one step closer to achieving that impossible fusion of the synthetic and natural, quietly experimental in spite of its own humility. Like most of his work, it doesn't fit into any narrative but his own (though it does slot in nicely with the recent stretch of woodsy material that has defined Friends of Friends' better output for the past year), and it doesn't need to: Postrock for the Flying Lotus generation, Natural Traits is 40 minutes of elegant pastoralism and refined instrumental songwriting at its best. "}