{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17327/homepage_large.bf0cc202.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Raekwon","title":"Unexpected Victory","text":" The avalanche of mixtapes that accompanies every new year has positively blanketed 2012 in rap music, with seasoned veterans and hungry newcomers alike sending 2011 off with one last test of the DatPiff download limit. While Rick Ross' grandiose Rich Forever mixtape, on sheer size alone, has threatened to blot out a lot of its Q1 competition, solid efforts abound for hiphop fans this has been the single best month in what seems like years. It's here, in this overcrowded field, that WuTang dynamo Raekwon has unleashed Unexpected Victory, essentially his first fulllength release since 2011's fine Shaolin vs. WuTang LP. In any other month, Victory might eke out a few more ways to live up to its title. But for Rae, spitting criminology raps over grimy orchestral stabs and murky slivers of soul isn't exactly unexpected, and armed with a crop of passable productions and an uneven roster of guest stars rarely smacks of anything like victory. Victory splits its time between fellow New York vets (Mobb Deep, Busta Rhymes, C.L. Smooth) and relative newbies (Fred Da Godson, Chicago's L.E.P. Bogus Boys), and holds to a fairly tightknit stable of guest rappers and producers (Sauce Money, Scram Jones) eager to cook up a slinkier take on postRZA muck at the Chef's behest. Flossy, almost Rossian widescreeners \"Just a Toast\" and \"Luxury Rap\", the sinewy, stretchedout soul of \"Silk\" and the Just Blazenodding \"MTV Cribs\" bring a little light to the proceedings, but the sound here mostly hangs out in the dank realm Rae's been favoring forever. Victory's greatest flaw is its wildly varying fidelity; listening, you'll have to get up every few minutes to work the volume knob, and even then, you may not be able to make out everything that's going on in, say, the hissy \"The Brewery\". Still, on a tape that could use a few more outliers, skits, practical jokes, something, this little bit of audience participation works wonders for engagement; you'd probably never hear CeazarnReason's lackluster \"Brewery\" verses if you didn't have to crank the song so loud to hear Raekwon at all. Couple that with the incongruous appearance of young Altrina Renee's postAaliyah/\"EMail My Heart\" lunger \"Facetime\", and you've got less mixtape, more datadump: an anythinggoes, congruitybedamned assortment of whatever was lying around at the time. Ever since threatening defection from the Wu following 2007's intoxicatingly odd 8 Diagrams, Raekwon's revealed himself to be a key figure in the WuTang's conservative wing. His muchlauded 2009 LP was, after all, the sequel to one of the more singular LPs in rap history, and while Cuban Linx II wasn't exactly a Xerox, you could certainly see where he'd laid down the tracing paper. Last year's Shaolin vs. WuTang was similar, richly detailed, inthepocket mafioso talk over stark, gritty strings. It's a lane Rae absolutely owns, one he's ridden pretty much since the start, and while he should be congratulated for never bending to any whims but his own, his setjaw consistency doesn't always make for the most dazzling music. He gets some good lines in all over Victory, of course; any Raekwon song with \"Story\" in the title is bound to be a good one, and both \"Soldier Story\" and the 9th Wonderproduced \"A Pinebox Story\" find his masterful narrative skills and unflinching brutality as sharp as ever, still stringing together bits of seemingly disconnected detail until a picture begins to take shape. But, when he drops a Twilight reference in his very first verse here, he seems a little lost without a plot. It can't all be smokefilled backrooms or alleyway beatdowns, but elsewhere, Rae seems a little scattered, either resorting to stock phrases (\"Riding at breakneck speed/ Gimme weed/ Gimme cheese/ I like cheddar\") or finding a reference any reference that sorta works. (Raekwon, if you're wondering, is on Team Jacob.) The occasional line pops out, but it's rare that he grabs you for a whole verse that doesn't have a clear beginning, middle, and end. Victory's guest roster hits more than it misses; the elder statesmen types bring about what you'd expect to the table, though Prodigy had me rolling with \"you tacky like headrest TVs.\" It's rising star Fred Da Godson who fares best here, though, noting on \"Luxury Rap\" that he's \"a phenomenon [like] Travolta with the tumor\" who \"should rhyme with some Wallabees on.\" But, apart from the irrepressible Busta and a few of the more excitable youths, these guys tend to trade in the kind of coldeyed, unexcitable confidence Rae does, which coupled with Rae's own coolness of demeanor and the general steeliness of these beats leaves one with the weird feeling that there's both a lot of Raekwon on this record and not very much Raekwon at all. I was maybe three or four spins into Unexpected Victory before I realized something: I had no idea what exactly Rae meant to promote with its release, what gap he meant to stop by unleashing these songs into the world. I'm told Rae, Ghost, Cappadonna, and the LOX are at work on a collaborative LP called WuBlock, and of course, there's talk of a new WuTang LP by year's end. To prepare for the new Wu LP, GZA reportedly went to MIT to spend a few days studying mitochondria or something; you'll be pleased to hear there's been no talk of Raekwon shipping off to Le Cordon Bleu for a week of chef's training. Ultimately, you want Raekwon rapping; preferably, you want Raekwon rapping about the grisliest possible subjects, over crackling, cinematic RZA beats. Unexpected Victory's sound is too lousy and its stakes too low to ever possibly live up to his past glories. What's most frustrating, though, is how little Rae's adjusted to this brave new world of the mixtapeasalbum; here's one of the premier album artists in hiphop history, tossing out what amount to wellintentioned scraps without even bothering to check if the thing's mastered before it went live. Can you blame anybody for burning their first click on Rich Forever? "}