{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17328/homepage_large.1f0c3a27.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"T.I.","title":"Fuck Da City Up","text":" T.I.'s place in rap history has been established; when he was counted out after his majorlabel debut barely rippled, he released a series of buzzbuilding mixtapes that culminated in a Southern hiphop classic, Trap Muzik, a point when he claimed his spot as King of the South. On Urban Legend he swatted at upstarts who would challenge him. And with King, he crashed through to the national stage. By the time of Paper Trail, the rapper had crossed over completely, with \"Whatever You Like\" becoming the his first No. 1 hit. Beneath this narrative of triumph, of course, was a tumultuous undercurrent: A friend was killed in front of him, drugs abused, and unthinkable paranoia led to felony weapons charges, jail time, parole violations, and more jail time. While an artist like Gucci seemed so reckless with the opportunities he had earned, T.I. always gave the impression that he was striving to escape that trap. Fresh from his most recent dalliance with hard time, the rapper is back in the scrappy mode of his early days; as it's ever been, the worst thing you can do is count him out. But while Fuck Da City Up finds the rapper in a hungry mode, it also has a vague sense of listlessness. It's difficult to get a feel for the rapper's story. He seems to have left the personal narratives and ethical tensions that charged his earlier works behind. In its place, he has shifted his focus in twin directions: proving he's still got the energy of a rapper half his age (he does). And proving that he can still make bangers. This is where the tape doesn't reach the bar set by earlier efforts. It doesn't help that Fuck Da City Up dropped around the same time as Jeezy's comeback record, and shortly before Ross' oxygenstealing Rich Forever. Because T.I. just can't do blockbuster rap bangers like those two. His style was more dexterous nuance than bludgeoning Scarface mantras. Here, his best moments seem to rely on the talents of his guests to create some (admittedly impressive) chemistry. Witness the superteam of Travis Porter, Young Dro, Tip, and \"I'm on One\"producer TMinus for the showstopping \"Hot Wheels\". \"On Purpose\" is another highlight, and the collaborative team of Trouble and T.I. (\"It's 'Trouble Man' riding with Trouble, man, them mu'fuckers in trouble, man\") have a very real musical symmetry; it's easy to imagine that Trap Muzik's sense of moral strength may have had a heavy influence on Trouble's 2011 mixtape December 17th. Sonically, you'd be hard pressed to argue that anyone but T.I. picked out these beats; bouncier and heavier on regal horn parts than the typical rap record today, they retain the King vibe even though the producer names have changed. Perhaps the best production comes from Hit Boy, who laces the amusingly named \"Harry Potter\" with a shimmering wallofsparks beat that deserves a better title. T.I.'s rapping throughout the tape retains the balance of smooth style, a perfect Southern rapper's accent, and the ability to telegraph energy through a dazzlingly rhythmic flow. But ultimately, the songs simply aren't there, certainly not ones that will rival Ross', and T.I.'s narrative here feels too weakly articulated to make up for songwriting shortcomings. While relying on biography to invigorate his raps a decade distant from the street life might be unrealistic, when his music was at its most fascinating, his willingness to wrestle with the moral dimension of his experiences helped streamline his music, giving it verisimilitude that felt in short supply in the cutthroat world of street rap. It gave some of the more plain moments an impassioned purpose, which allowed the listener to ignore hiphop's cult of Bangers. It also helped sand down the rough edges on a musical level; while Jeezy's monolithic sound could sweep up listeners in its pure, epic, and totalitarian vision, T.I. was always too flawed, too selfaware to go for those sorts of transparent theatrics. This made for compelling rap music when his story was central. But when the only story is the one arguing for your own relevance, you end up with a lot of sound and fury. "}