{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17332/homepage_large.7ce32d26.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Juicy J","title":"Blue Dream & Lean","text":" Juicy J cuts to the chase early on Blue Dream & Lean: The entire chorus of \"Juicy J Can't\", the album's third track, is, \"You say no to drugs/ Juicy J can't.\" It's informative, though not completely necessary on a mixtape that derives its title by rhyming the slang for cough syrup and soda with the name of a strand of weed. Juicy one half of legendary, and legendarily bizarre, Memphis rap group Three 6 Mafia seemingly spent most of 2011 ingesting enough recreational drugs to make Nikki Sixx raise an eyebrow, and paying producer Lex Luger for beats so he can rap about it. Blue Dream & Lean is basically a continuation of Juicy's two collaborative mixtapes with Luger, Rubber Band Business and Rubber Band Business 2. Despite Luger's producing only nine of the album's 28 tracks, beats by Sonny Digital and Juicy himself work off of Luger's blueprint, which itself is partially filtered down from the type of dark, headknocking production of classic Three 6. The success and failure of the mixtape are two sides of the same coin. On the one hand, there's cohesion to Blue Dream & Lean that serves it well. The result of Juicy's chanting about taking drugs over tracks that are largely similar is that he pulls you into his world, one where narcotics blur everything together until one day you have a 28track mixtape, yet you still need to title every song, but you're so stoned that you just pick the dominant line from every chorus. Lesser artists have tried much harder to achieve the same effect and failed, and Juicy pulls it off effortlessly. The flip side of that, of course, is that a 28track mixtape featuring Juicy J chanting over largely similar beats is far too many tracks, especially on the heels of two related tapes. Blue Dream & Lean could be chopped in half and be no worse for the wear, but that's par for the course. It's a shame, too, because a combination of the best Lugerstyle tracks and the few songs that go in a different direction would make for a very good album. The opening quarter of the mixtape is especially inspired, as it finds Juicy at the point where he's most concentrated on casually, almost mindlessly, talking shit. Interspersed throughout the album are songs like \"Big Bank\"(produced by Drumma Boy, one of the most diverse producers in the South) and \"Stoners Night 2\", which break up the slight monotony but deserve to be highlighted even further. The latter, done by notable upandcoming producer Harry Fraud, features a lush, soulful sample that's a breath of fresh air amongst the album's suffocating palette. The latter part of the tape gives shine to blog favorites like A$AP Rocky, Spaceghostpurrp, Alley Boy, and Kreayshawn, all of whom sound much too eager to please. And though that's perfectly understandable, it's quite jarring considering that Juicy is trading in his ability to make the listener believe that he's selfdestructively destroying his body regardless of the consequences. Kreayshawn at least managed to score the best chorus, and she and Juicy repeatedly asking each other, \"you trippy, mane?\" is the only time any of the aforementioned guests come off as carefree enough to hit on the album's vibe. Blue Dream & Lean is allegedly Juicy's first offering as a member of Wiz Khalifa's Taylor Gang, and though hot new rappers using their newfound power to sign legendary veterans that have faded from the spotlight almost always leads to a failure to meet inflated expectations, there's enough here to suggest that Juicy could put out a really good album with the input of a dedicated editor. "}