{"label":" Fire","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17338/homepage_large.e5ca8bcb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Cardinal","title":"Hymns","text":" Eighteen years ago, a multiinstrumentalist from the West Coast and a songwriter from Australia released an album under the name Cardinal. It wasn't a huge hit, but it did exert a big influence as one of the first albums of the 1990s to explore lush chamber pop in any depth. (Chamber pop is pretty much a nucleotide in the DNA of indie rock today, which makes it easy to forget that it wasn't always that way.) The original 1994 Cardinal album was met with a flurry of acclaim, but its spending many years out of print it was finally reissued in 2005 meant not many people heard it after that initial burst. The American half of the duo, Eric Matthews, went on to have a successful career, releasing solo albums and arranging for a lengthy list of other artists, including Elliott Smith, Tahiti 80, and the Dandy Warhols. His partner, Richard Davies, who had already played in the Moles, has kept going with a lowprofile solo career. There seems to be no particular occasion that prompted their reunion, but their reemergence after such a long break, sounding basically like they used to, does afford us a chance to see how things have changed in almost 20 years. Their sound, a fairly basic brand of mostly midtempo, lowkey indie rock adorned with brass fanfares and other decorative orchestration, doesn't stand out as much as it did back in the days of grunge, but it is still distinctive. Thing is, for as much attention as they got back in the day, Cardinal never made the most instantly memorable music, and that holds true here as well. Davies likes to run his vocals through subtle processing, and he especially likes doubling himself singing clean on one track and processed on another. Often the only effect of this is that it blunts the melody. Matthews answers those melodies with big bursts of trumpet, but those answering statements can sound more mannered than felt across the album, there's hardly any syncopation, and with pretty much everything happening between the bar lines, the album sounds tight and staid even as it shoots for grandeur. This is not to say Hymns doesn't have its moments. The first time Matthews hits us fullforce with the brass, on \"Carbolic Smoke Ball\", it imparts a Bacharachian sweep to a song that otherwise walks in place. The reverberant piano of \"General Hospital\" nicely conjures the image of a cold, empty hospital hallway; the upbeat \"Love Like Rain\" is a welcome diversion into something approaching power pop; and Davies' closing refrain on \"Rosemary Livingstone\" \"I want you to change/ But stay the same\" is a funny way of stepping outside the band for a second and getting into the head of a listener who maybe doesn't know what he wants from this reunion. Fair enough. The reunion wasn't expected, and while it's nice to finally hear these two follow up on a promising debut, Hymns isn't likely to capture many people who weren't taken with the original Cardinal record. "}