{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17351/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Young L","title":"Praktica","text":" It's funny now, knowing what we know about Lil B, to go back and watch the video for the Pack's 2006 track \"Vans\", which features a then17yearold Based God tentatively slurring a perfectly amateurish verse about the importance of wearing skate shoes. Lil B is not completely a different person now he's retained a good amount of the intense goofiness present in both \"Vans\" and its video but he's obviously mutated into a much different and more singular artist since his days with the Pack. The song's producer, Young L (he also raps the third verse), has also grown into his own since \"Vans\". But where Lil B's turned into a bizarre rap savant, L has stuck to the slaps of hyphy that were the song's backbone, gravitating toward construction and sounds that are less pop and more outwardly showy, with rapping that often sounds like it's merely cruising along for the ride. This has presented a bit of a problem at times for Young L, who, across various mixtapes in the past few years, has hit on some great tracks but generally had trouble matching the quality of his rapping to the quality of his producing. With Praktica, his most recent tape, he comes as close as ever to accomplishing that, and the result is a record that feels for the first time like he's found the formula for making consistently good solo songs. His rapping is still more about charisma, charm, and knowing how to ride his own beats than about lyrics, and the one song here that's tagged as a freestyle is indistinguishable from everything else on the tape. His rapping is both dumb and dumb, and it's a style that works for him here because there's a youthful brashness and confidence in his delivery, something that allows L to sell his rapping without coming off as trying too hard. Of course, it doesn't hurt that the beats are uniformly great. L's production has always been spare, heavy on keyboard beeps, and equally reliant on bass and open space. On Praktica he cannibalizes sounds from Mario and PacMan in a way that is inspired and novel instead of gimmicky. At a crucially digestible nine tracks, there is no overextension of the idea, and the sounds of classic video games are so harmonious with the production style Young L's cultivated that you wouldn't even bat an eye if the samples he pulls weren't so immediately identifiable. As befits an internetsavvy artist who had a hit song in his teens and also owns his own clothing line, L has always seemed filled to the brim with ideas, and the tricks he pulls on songs like \"Arcade Pussy\" and \"Super Nintendo\" are some of his best yet. There is still something very raw about Praktica, and L in general, that will turn some people off, and you almost have to be willing to approach his verses as if they're choruses where small phrases and snatches of melody will embed themselves in your head to fully appreciate his rapping. But there is something undeniably kinetic about this cocky, selfassured artist honing his sound and skill level that helps make up for much of the tape's shortcomings. There may be a disappointing 20track tape on the way, but if L continues in this direction, we may bizarrely look back on \"Vans\" as the breeding ground for a few of the most distinctive young voices in West Coast hiphop. "}