{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17349/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"Pictureplane","title":"Dimensional Rip 7: Thee Physical Remixes","text":" Travis Egedy's last Pictureplane album, Thee Physical, was a crowded concoction of garish rave signifiers, dance music clichés, and the punkinspired freeforall collage aesthetic of his earlier work weighted with lyrical conceits surrounding gender identity. With beefier production values that pointed more directly toward trance and euphoric house, it was undoubtedly the most complete and confident thing the Denver producer's created to date. But never a stranger to the internet, Egedy's free download series, Dimensional Rip, has played host to a handful of jumbled, messy mixes, and the seventh installment is a fullblown Thee Physical remix album. Well, sort of: It depends on how you define \"album.\" Only five of Thee Physical's 11 originals are given the remix treatment, and they're plopped down as an unordered clump of beats. I'm not sure how we're supposed to listen to this; on my mp3 player, they're sorted alphabetically, meaning three remixes of \"Body Mod\" are followed by a whopping seven reworks of lead single \"Post Physical\" it's not the most measured playlist I've ever heard. In my iTunes, however, the tracks are assorted seemingly randomly, splitting up the monotony but throwing in a whole lot of volatile randomness. So as much as we might want to call Dimensional Rip 7 an album, in practice it's merely a collection of tracks for us to peruse and choose from. Even though the production values of Thee Physical seemed to pull Egedy away from the kind of homemade dance music made from big obvious samples (such as 2009's memorable \"Goth Star\"), its remix companion hands the album over to a whole spectrum of DIY denizens, from recognizable to obscure names. The results vary in quality just as much. For as many that simply aren't distinctive, there's a number of cringeworthy facepalms. Chicago's Fire For Effect seize on the slow, belaboured theatricality of \"Post Physical\", turning it into something saccharine and overblown, while the less said about Craxxxmurf's headacheinducing take on \"Touching Transform\" the better. Dimensional Rip 7's sheer size has one advantage, however: For every misstep there's a good remix lurking behind it. Ritualz's \"Alien Trance remix\" of \"Post Physical\" takes hold of the trance thread that weaves through Egedy's work and turns it rubbery and warped, while Adeptus lay down a bed of lush synths and acid gurgles, turning \"Trancegender\" into the aching duet with Zola Jesus it should have been in the first place. Dimensional Rip 7 features some prominent and welltimed guests, too. Montreal womanofthemoment Grimes dismantles \"Real Is a Feeling\" and reconstructs it into one of her own pinsandneedles skeletons, infusing the track with her breathy coos for a remix so delicate it almost sounds out of place on a package full of speakerblown hymns to homemade dance music. But the crown jewel undoubtedly belongs to makeshift chop'n'screw master Physical Therapy. The New Jersey producer's own distinct style taking huge samples and inflating them until they're puffy clouds of distortion and then drenching everything in sad, defeated, leandripping slowdown is more than compatible with Pictureplane's, and his take on \"Post Physical\" layers sirens, heavy metallic breaks, and the original's stirring synth riff. It's one of the collection's few moments that feels truly innovative, one of the American underground's weirdest personalities putting his imprint on another bizarro underdog. That inspiring collaboration sits atop a veritable heap of informationoverload excess, and a project as cheeky but quietly ambitious as Pictureplane deserves nothing less than a sprawling songvomit remix album. Like most of what he does, it's far from tasteful and not always all that great, but the highlights are some of the most fun and carefree electronic music from this side of the Atlantic. There's been a lot of talk about the American \"new rave generation\" fueled by artists like Skrillex and Deadmau5, but it's really Pictureplane that embodies everything caricatured in images of those neonclad teenagers. Honestly, Dimensional Rip 7 is a complete mess and not even close to a coherent listening experience, but its highs are high enough to make wading through the mud a worthwhile endeavor. "}