{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17350/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Matthew Dear","title":"Headcage EP","text":" Matthew Dear's transformation, from bedroom techno polymath to liveband leader, occurred over such a long, seamless stretch that it's easy to take for granted just how surprising (and rewarding) it's been. In 2003, Dear's wonky vocal anthem, \"Dog Days\", could have been taken as a microhouse producer's novelty, a cheeky attempt at merging sappy indie pop with alien sound design. But while he kept on recording \"straight\" techno in a bewildering array of styles, Dear's records under his own name continued shucking dance music's rules, rhythmic and otherwise. Techno's precision kept his Afrobeat and artfunk fixations from devolving into jamband aimlessness. And lessons learned from those genres made his machine textures appealingly strange, rather than preset bland. The four song Headcage EP both picks up where Dear's last record left off and shakes its influence enough to suggest where he might be headed next. Or maybe not. Like any good techno producer, Dear appreciates the EP as an artform in itself, rather than a way to rush out a set of nottoodissimilar songs to keep fans happy between albums. That said, it might also be the least \"techno\" material Dear's recorded. Two of the songs verge on a kind of singersongwriter's ambient, floating by with almost no backing at all. A third sounds like a sensitive rocker got hold of a Soulja Boy track and decided to make the best of it, with winning results. This is Dear as laidback charmer, rather than forbidding electro architect. Compared to the dark (but not bleak) journey of 2010's Black City, where Dear transposed the \"nighttime drive\" claustrophobia of oldschool techno to a set of intricate almostrock jams, Headcage shakes off the latenight jitters for a sound so airy it threatens to evaporate into murmurs and empty space. Black City's density suggested that Dear was drawing aesthetic energy from what most of us would just suffer as the stress of living in a tightly packed urban environment. Here he seems to be yearning for the room to chill. The dark electro of Headcage's title cut, vaguely reminiscent of various early1980s British synthpop bands without quite sounding like anyone specific, might inititally trick you into thinking the EP will be the afterparty to Black City's bash. But Dear relaxes into something more comfortable and blissful as Headcage plays out, suggesting two possible routes for his music in the future. \"In the Middle (I Met You There)\" is one of the most surprising cuts Dear's put his name to since \"Dog Days\", a love song crooned (by the Drums' Jonny Pierce) over a bright hiphop loop, not too dissimilar from the 8bit fizz being peddled by producers like Clams Casino, that he fleshes out with shifting layers of keyboard buzz. It's as delightful chillwave with actual hooks and a sound rich enough to swim in instead of just wash over you as it is unexpected. But \"Street Song\" and \"Around a Fountain\" do away with anything as coarse as drums, unless a flicker of static repurposed as a rhythm counts, suggesting TV on the Radio at their most amorphous and then taking it even further. (Though given that Dear's always sung like this, it's an interesting question as to who got there first.) It's hard to imagine Dear constructing an entire LP out of such seemingly insubstantial stuff, but he might just be able to pull it off. Even in this beatless world, he brings his techno producer's instincts out, dropping just enough in the way of fleeting, rightplacerighttime hooks to catch your ear when it's ready drift away from the song. It's a good example of how a grounding in \"functional\" dance would do a lot of avantrockers a world of good. "}