{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17345/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Dizzee Rascal","title":"DirteeTV.com","text":" Dizzee Rascal finished out the first decade of the 21st century as a skirtchasing, champagnepopping celebrity with a taste in totally fun (but gaudy) dancepop. Needless to say, this was not a turn of events that would've been easy to predict in 2003. Boy in Da Corner remains an astounding debut, but one with (in retrospect) very little in the way of crossover potential, at least on a \"chat shows and TV adverts\" scale. In the beginning, \"grime\" summed up Dizzee's sound quite well, a statement of aesthetic principles as much as an easy genre tag. The nasty, minimalist clang of the beats may have been startling, but it was no sane DJ's idea of party fuel. And Dizzee's intensity on the mic suggested a guy who might snap if this rap thing didn't pan out. But over the next seven years, it worked out better than anyone, especially Dizzee, probably could have guessed when he was just a teenage hellion with a voice like an alarm cutting through the static on London pirate radio. It would be easier to begrudge Dizzee his success if his later music, lightweight as it could get, wasn't so instantly and consistently pleasurable. Still, those of us who first came to love the teethbaring, don'tgiveafuck Dizzee couldn't help but hope he'd return to the stompandsnarl sound. Well, here you go. A mixtape available for the low asking price of your email address, DirteeTV.com is designed more as a showcase for Dizzee's label/crew Dirtee Stank than a chance for Rascal to flex on his lonesome. But when he hits the track, Dizzee's rapping with an allornothing ferocity that makes Boy in Da Corner sound like the kid he was. And the beats are often takenoprisoners massive in a way that invites comparisons to Lex Luger, at least if Lex were forced to rebuild his sound from the last 10 years of British bass culture. It was no surprise to read recently that Detroit rapper Danny Brown is a Dizzee fan. They both sometimes rock the same edgeofhysteria flow, as if each time they pick up a mic might be their last chance and they're not at all happy about it. But they've also got a range, from imperious sneer to justjoking nasty boy, that elevates them above the guys forced to shout or mumble because they can't do anything else. Dizzee takes all tacks here, but he's at his best in the tape's early stretch, when even at his most frantic he seems utterly unfazed by the Brick Squadgrade mayhem of the beats. The first third of DirteeTV.com is some of the most thrilling music Dizzee's recorded in years, and part of the joy is in how tracks like \"Guts N' Glory\" and \"I Want It All\" match the apocalyptic density of the best current American street rap through a wholly UK set of sounds. Likewise he uses that old but still effective grime trick of taking a portentous bit of classical music and looping it to an extreme, heard best on the beastly \"Minimus\", where opera squall straight out of a horror movie meets dancehall drums pitched to a tempo better suited to moshing. But as with so many American mixtapes where the more famous rapper graciously but mistakenly cedes the spotlight to his squad, the guest stars occasionally threaten to drown out the main draw and drag the proceedings into pedestrian, justanothermixtape territory. When Dizzee's magnetism disappears entirely, don't worry about feeling too much guilt over your urge to hit the skip the button. Special shout to D Double E, though, whose ability to maul a vowel remains unmatched on either side of the Atlantic. And while any MC will bring a muchneeded dose of adrenaline to the cavernous murk of the tracks where grime and dubstep seem damn near interchangeable, things do get a little flat in the middle stretch, where that minimalism almost gives way to plain torpor. Thankfully things rebound in the final third, especially on \"Wavestation\", which rescues the noble tradition of the bass drop from Skrillex's cloddish peers, cooking up something more like an arcade game rewrite of Dead Prez's \"HipHop\" bline. Like most of its American cousins, DirteeTv.com is too long by at least six or seven tracks, and not always the ones where Dizzee steps aside for his vibesapping pals. Did he really need to recycle his own moldy oldies on \"Ain't Havin It\"? And the quality control is too lax, especially during the middle stretch that teeters on the edge of grimebynumbers, to plausibly call it any kind of instant classic. On the other hand, like those weekly U.S. transmissions from the DatPiff nation, it's also free, so you can't get too grouchy about having to prune the dull beats after downloading. And it's a chance to hear Dizzee rapping at fearsome full tilt, something we haven't gotten enough of since he started scoring multiple No. 1 hits at home. He attacks these nocrossoverbullshit beats with the aggression of a rapper who's still got something to prove, but with a confidence that comes only when you've already outperformed everyone's expectations, especially your own. "}