{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17362/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"DropxLife","title":"Furthur","text":" Torontobased XO crew member DropxLife was partly responsible for \"Initiation\", one of the highlights of the Weeknd's Echoes of Silence and one of that act's most distinctive tracks, all choppy seasick drums and demonically distorted vocals. Aside from his vague association with Tesfaye and company, there's not much to be found about the mysterious producer. He's let a few of his own productions trickle out over the past few months, and collected them in a freetodownload mixtape called Furthur, a short collection of instrumentals that handily profiles an intriguing new name in an increasingly overcrowded set of knuckledragging, mopey hiphop beatsmiths. Well, to call it hiphop wouldn't exactly be accurate: in a fashion similar to Balam Acab and Holy Other's, the slow swing and drowsy drop that DropxLife favors is a whole lot more triphop than hiphop. We're talking real triphop here: There are moments on Furthur that sound uncannily like mid1990s Bristol Portishead, Massive, Tricky updated for 2012, and the ones that don't tend to lean on other arbiters of downtempo like DJ Shadow, maybe even Thievery Corporation. Not to be relegated to copycat or cratedigger, however, what makes DropxLife feel less like a retro fetishist is the distinctly digital nature of his work: Loaded with filters, effects, and heavilyprocessed sounds, Furthur has more in common with cloudrap than the scratchy vinyl samples of early triphop. What the triphop dimension does for Furthur is to lend it a relaxed, almost carefree vibe: Like a tranquilized RZA, this is unfiltered spliff music with a vaguely orientalist bent, almost too languorous to even imagine someone spitting over it without getting tangled up in the long washes of sound or angled lashes of string instruments. Take opener \"MadexMen\", centering around some filtered coos and a strummed guitar, with slow, glitchy drums that sound like they're sliding off each other: This is remarkably lazy stuff, taking the codeine crawl of Clams Casino and likeminded acts to a new plateau of dazed and blazed. Clams Casino is an essential reference point here: The raspy breezes and gauzy gasps that coat tracks such as \"BexForever\" feel torn right from his page. There are differences of course the subbass in \"BexForever\" feels far more brutal than anything I've heard by Clams, and a lot of Drop's beats heave and lurch with a widearced pendulum swing. But it's still hard not to hear him in the bits of tabla and other light percussive touches that scuff the surface of \"StillxShots\" in a way uncannily similar to the New Jersey producer's \"Numb\". Taken on their own terms, DropxLife's tracks are more physical, cleaner, composed of disparate elements; if Clams seems to mould and bend songs out of monolithic shapes, DropxLife builds them piecebypiece from the ground up, but you probably wouldn't think twice about uttering them in the same breath anyway. It's this lack of personality that makes Furthur a merely pleasant listen rather than a truly stimulating one. Furthur's best moments come when DropxLife goes nuts with the delay effects, creating a dazzlingly shimmering surface that skips and skates over the low end to disorienting effect, like walking the wrong way down a moving conveyor belt (the motionsickness phasing on \"1stxFlr\" or the dry heave guitar on \"TripXEnt\"). But we shouldn't forget who people are rightly going to associate DropxLife with, and highlight \"RedxBloor\" indeed sounds like a choppedandscrewed Weeknd track, featuring a heartwrenching vocal sample not unlike the disembodied female voices that pop up on Weeknd tracks \"Lonely Star\" and \"Next\". Even just that snippet of a vocal endows DropxLife's sluggish torpor with a vivacity the rest of it lacks, a liveliness he's going to need to develop if he wants to be anything more than another bloodshot bedroom beatmaker. "}