{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17355/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"The Howling Hex","title":"Wilson Semiconductors","text":" For someone who has spent the bulk of his musical life sourcing inspiration from the past, Neil Hagerty hasn't made many backward movements through his own career. When Pussy Galore reformed for one of Yo La Tengo's annual Hanukkah shows this past December, he was nowhere to be seen. The Royal Trux reissues Drag City's put out barely seem different from the original releases. And any thoughts of him getting back together with former Trux partner Jennifer Herrema seem more remote than ever, especially as she just delivered her best album in years under her new Black Bananas guise. Despite apparently living by a neverlookback creed, there are usually a few signifiers in each new record by the Howling Hex a strained, phlegmridden growl, a stack of stodgy riffs that make everything he does suitably Hagertyesque. Even the title Wilson Semiconductors feels like an obscure nod back to the inert object fetishization of \"Ray O Vac\" from Thank You. This is an EP of four long songs that continues the drumless setup on the 2008 Howling Hex record Earth Junk, with a simple guitar/bass/vocal set up getting the job done. It's ragged and detached, with dips into tight song structure followed by long, meandering guitar passages that feel like you're tied up in a loose strand of thought circling Hagerty's brain. He's lived out in the desert in New Mexico for some time now, and it's not hard to hear that influence at work here, especially on the ranchero flavor of the waltztime closer \"A Game of Dice\". Except, this being Hagerty, it's scifi ranchero, full of squelching, thickset guitar parts, joined by a reedy vocal line that makes it sound like it was recorded when he needed to pee real hard. It probably was. So, in many ways, this is an extension of the work he began on Earth Junk, albeit with a few divots to negotiate along the way. On the opening \"Reception\", Hagerty works up a bouncy guitar undertow over which his vocal finger wagging warns upandcomers about the perils of entering the music game. It's got the kind of authoritative cadence that his best work always has, where you feel like you're suddenly privy to a nugget of invaluable information, no matter how silly it looks on the page. In that sense Hagerty works in a great rock'n'roll tradition, where delivery begets meaning. The intent derived from the whiney, doubledup vocal line, \"Reception, it can take a long time,\" can be parsed in a million different ways. But the way Hagerty conveys it swamping the mix, dripping with resonance leaves you in little doubt that some kind of indeterminate wisdom is being imparted by a tyrannical autocrat, and it's time to simply shut up and take notice. But, as with most material the Howling Hex have produced, Wilson Semiconductors easily passes from that kind of despotic strut to something more freeform. \"Brunette Roulette\" is an extended guitar exercise, shorn of vocals, edging close to the nineminute mark with no particular place to go. It draws elements of freak folk into the mix, with a frantically strummed acoustic guitar loop underpinning strident soloing followed by a honeyed coating of flange twothirds of the way through. \"Play This When You Feel Low\" is an unfocussed bridging of both worlds, with wild avant soloing conjoined to heavily reverbed vocals that struggle to find a place to sit comfortably. Each track here encounters a similar problem at some point. There are plenty of impulses worthy of exploration, but too often they end up tarnished by a listless desire to meander without direction, making Wilson Semiconductors feel more like a stopgap than a valuable addition to Hagerty's canon. "}