{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17361/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2012","text":" What's left to say about the Pop Ambient series? That it appears every winter? Check. That it has become a bit of a chore? Done. That shifts in its tone and content are subtle? Been there. That it rarely breaks artists of note? Got it. It has become difficult to tease differences out of the series as its chapters have grown voluminous, and I'll submit that the real question we need to ask about the Pop Ambient series is not what remains unsaid but what the series itself has left to say. Pop Ambient 2012 arrives at a time when ambient and experimental artists routinely sing for their supper, offering theoretical frameworks and positioning their works as commentaries on music, media, and memory. The goals of the PA series and its artists are largely sonic, bridging the gaps, however tenuously, between electronic music, modern classical, and pop. The series' flower motif suggests a kinship with Erik Satie's concept of furniture music, or music explicitly intended for the background. Gorgeous soundtracking is a fair, modest goal of ambient composers, but music of this ilk from Leyland Kirby (and his Caretaker alias) to Emeralds to Oneohtrix Point Never has felt so vibrant and rich in recent years that the offerings here seem slight. Stop me if you've heard this one before: PA12 contains another new Wolfgang Voigt side project (Mohn, with Jörg Burger), a Kompakt techno stalwart making his firstever series contribution (Superpitcher), and notable outsiders (Simon Scott). Intrigued? Which volume of the series did you pull off the shelf to listen to in anticipation of these revelations? Forgive the cynicism. The failure of PA12 has little to do with the individual tracks, most of which could, at worst, be harmlessly swapped out for the thirdmostforgettable offering on any given PA compilation. There are highlights, as always: the beautiful simplicity of the piano that steers Superpitcher's \"Jackson\"; Wolfgang Voigt's ruptured, surprising orchestrations on \"Rückverzauberung 5\". Five years after lighting up PA07 with the Field's \"Kappsta\", Axel Wilner debuts his new guise, Loops of Your Heart, whose \"Riding the Bikes\" closes PA12 with lacy, somnambulent guitar. (In other words, the only new standout on PA12 is the alias of an artist who has already released three fulllengths for Kompakt.) There are more obvious missteps than in previous years, though. On \"Richmodis\", Triola masses clanging minor chords into a long, useless noir. Mohn's compopening offering, \"Manifesto\", is not just slow and ringing but comically ponderous. Magazine's selfedit of \"The Visitors Bureau\" is proforma symphonic drift. Just as Now That's What I Call Music 40 hardly suggests permanence, PA12 is damned by its place in a series that grew stale several years ago. This is not even the best ambient compilation Wolfgang Voigt has appeared on in the past year: Kompakt regulars Andrew Thomas and bvdub (who makes an appearance here) compiled Air Texture Vol. 1, a frothy, generous collection that outmaneuvers PA12 at every turn. Ambient music feels rich and diverse right now, willing to engage with wider worlds. The expanses of PA12's tracks belie how cloistered and small the compilation actually is. There's nothing wrong with music that knowingly fades into the background, so long as you accept that sometimes the only room you're wallpapering is your own. "}