{"label":" MIE","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17363/homepage_large.cover.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Richard Youngs","title":"Amaranthine","text":" You could say that no two LPs by veneratedyetunderrated Scottish avantrock artist Richard Youngs sound alike, and in the main you'd be right. How can you sum up a musician who's appeared on dozens and dozens of records over the last 20 years, rivaling Sun Ra and Merzbow in their similarly fecund and alloverthemap output? Of course, even someone who contains multitudes occasionally repeats himself, and there are obvious sonic links from one Youngs release to the next. For one thing, his keening voice remains as instantly recognizable on the new Amaranthine as ever, as does his idiosyncraticuntoinscrutable phrasing, where excessively drawnout lines trade off with obsessively repeated lyrical fragments. But even still, you'd be hardpressed to draw a direct line between Youngs' previous two albums and the haunted murk of Amaranthine, even as it focuses on (and amplifies) many of his central obsessions. For example, his longstanding interest in pushing rulebound forms like folk and rock and devotional music into the rulefree space of improvisation, or stretching their inherent repetitive natures past the accepted limits. These two modes are taken to a visceral extreme on Amaranthine. Rock is smelted down into a pervasive droneroar that suggests the music's power while abandoning almost all of its familiar structural elements. Meanwhile, the steady state of that drone is counterpointed by wild junkyard percussion that denies the very existence of the backbeat. The howl of ecstatic jazz is stripped of any blues or swing until just the yearning for total movement in any direction remains. Youngs' singing veers between liturgical formality and an expressionist bleat that mimics Albert Ayler's horn at its most mournful. It's a long and wooly journey into a rather forbidding place. Intriguing, at times overwhelming, and voyeuristic like a peek into a private ceremony. But still forbidding. On a casual listen, Amaranthine sounds loose and repetitious in a way that suggests the players shut their minds off and got down to some primal state of inthemoment music making. The obvious suggestion is that you should do the same as a listener, letting the emotion of the sound wash over you. And sure, that's one way to approach it. Amaranthine certainly has the feel of a tribal incantation playing out in real time, of a group losing itself in the unconscious flow, captured in the kind of fuzzedout fidelity that more recalls a field recording of a wayward cult than an academically precise studio session. The elements that make up Amaranthine are drawn from various strains of free music at their most direct and primal. It's an \"experimental\" album that hits you first on a gut level. Youngs on Amaranthine can sound shamanistic or minderasing or beyond words, any of the terms we usually apply to immersive and freeflowing music that seems out to bypass the intellect for chills up the spine and tingling of the arm hairs. But the one word you'd never use to describe Youngs, however emotionally expressionistic he can get, is \"primitive.\" As usual, a scrupulous intelligence lurks behind Amaranthine's seemingly offthedome journey into innerspace. For instance, only an assured musician would attempt the dichotomous mixture Youngs pulls off here, two approaches that might seem at first to be at odds with each other: the mantralike repetition of drone and the anythinggoes invention of free music. Though his music can often have a homemade feeling if nothing yet quite as \"séance in the barn\" as Amaranthine Youngs is someone who's thought out each aesthetic leftturn as carefully as any artsgrantendowed composer. He never simply shakes things up for the hell of it, and the new terrain he stakes out almost always turns out to lie within his strengths, however dissimilar it seems from his previous projects on first blush. But even still, it makes sense that Amaranthine is superlimitededition. His more recent albums the skewed pop of 2010's Beyond the Valley of the Ultra Hits and the fractured folk minimalism of 2011's Amplifying Host may have been (relatively) more userfriendly. But Amaranthine is among the spookiest and leasttethered sets Youngs has released in years, not quite forfansonly but definitely for those who wanna go way out. "}