{"label":" Friends of Friends","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17376/homepage_large.d4a0211b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Ryce","artist":"Shlohmo","title":"Vacation EP","text":" With last year's excellent Bad Vibes, L.A. producer Shlohmo showed just how far the Brainfeeder template of abstract instrumental hiphop could be stretched to gossamer, almost transparent extremes. An hourlong, shifting soundscape sketched out with broken drum machines, meandering guitar picking, and hushed vocals, it was as if Mount Kimbie were let loose in the wilderness of Southern California, all scorching sun and and dried, burned landscapes. The soft and pseudonaturalistic direction was a sharp leftturn for Henry Laufer, who had mostly made synth and sampleheavy takes on distorted hiphop before then. He continues down that mossgrown path with the Vacation EP, a more focused and confident take on Bad Vibes' landscape paintings. Opener \"The Way U Do\" is firmly in the Shlohmo style: dripping water, those familiar percussive rimshots (taken far outside their house music context), and a slippery sense of time, as if Laufer can't help but let his beats slide out of order every single bar. But the song's strengths lie in its melody: Pairing a distorted riff with an extended vocal sample, Laufer plays a sort of virtuoso conductor with his faceless vocalist, stretching out melisma into twirling, elongated lines and elegant loops, distorting it so it sounds fluid and constant like a guitar solo. Mixed in with the draggingfeet bassline and moping percussion, the emphasis here is on searing pain and hearttugging emotion, nicely expanding on Bad Vibes' often detached prettiness. The meek and plaintive \"wen uuu\" further ratchets up the percussion, but this time it's a bumpy zigzag of makeshift drums leaving just enough room for a different kind of vocal sampling. Chopping up vocal syllables into fine pieces, the song finds its own beauty in a synchronized jerky stutter, occasionally climaxing in those sublime moments of beauty (the titular \"when you\" vocal) that mark the best of Shlohmo's recent work. \"Rained the Whole Time\" rounds things off a little more businessasusual, a Bad Vibes holdover of bluesy guitar rubbing against knotted basslines and rattling drums. Vacation is an ideal stopgap EP, taking the sound of the album it follows and tightening it up just a little bit, closing the story as it were on Bad Vibes' holistic journey. You won't find a gentler, more ruminative take on Brainfeederstyle beats anywhere, and for someone whose work used to sound charmingly homemade, the processing mastery here is impressive. The EP packs a lot of power into a mere three tracks. "}