{"label":" DFA / Southern Fried","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17382/homepage_large.e6f0d111.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"The 2 Bears","title":"Be Strong","text":" Raf Rundell and Hot Chip's Joe Goddard, who are both straight, call themselves the 2 Bears in homage of the gay subculture mostly because they fit the bill aesthetically but also as homage to the vanguards of the dance music they love. \"We have huge respect for the pioneers of house music and nightclubbing some of them were gay,\" Rundell, aka DJ Raf Daddy, said an interview. Based on that description, you might expect handsintheair club sounds from this project (and there is some of that) but Be Strong is primarily about pop the kind that is gooey, uplifting, and occasionally goofy. The thing that stands out immediately (and is immediately likable) about the record is just how earnest these guys are about their optimism. The quotes \"Love is lovely\" and \"war is ugly\" show up on the album and its sleeve, and nearly every track details some kind of fondness of a partner, of a band, of a friend or just someone you bumped into on the dancefloor. (Seems like the Care Bears could have also worked as a band name, and in fact the furry gang appears in the video for \"Church\".) This heartonsleeve emoting is something Goddard and co. did very well on Hot Chip's One Life Stand, and it works here much the same way it did on tracks such as \"Brothers\": simple sentiments expressed simply over music that buoys the sweet parts and gives weight to the more serious stretches. If Be Strong is all about adoration, the biggest recipient of it is music itself. On these songs, Rundell and Goddard rep and rework lots of their personal favorites. One track is called \"Heart of the Congos\", for the classic reggae LP of the same name, and artists such as Kraftwerk, Wiley, Hot City, and Steely Dan all get shoutouts along the way. This is definitely what Simon Reynolds would call \"recordcollector rock,\" and I'm generally with him about the pitfalls of artists' constantly looking backwards, but these guys pull it off. For one, they tend to be futurist in their nostalgia, able to not just reinterpret but recontextualize things like rave or Chicago house. Also, there's a fanlike purity in the way they sing about the stuff you can tell how much it means to them. It's worth noting that Be Strong occasionally veers into silly territory to the extent that you can't really forget it's a side project. There are tracks, like \"Bear Hug\", sort of a twerkedup \"Humpty Dance\" (key line: \"All you out there on the floor, gonna get you in my paws and give you a bear hug\"), that would definitely not make the final cut of a Hot Chip album. But the guys' commitment to musicasfun and big, croony hooks (Goddard's velvet vocals sound as good as ever here) keeps it enjoyable throughout. The key, though, is that Goddard and Rundell set out to make something sentimental and happysounding and never bothered to worry if it seemed cool or not to do so. A relatively lowstakes project, sure, but for a small album, it's got a big heart. "}