{"label":" Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17391/homepage_large.6a08e338.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Underworld","title":"Anthology: 1992 to 2012","text":" Even when Underworld weren't big, they always aimed at being huge. I don't just mean the widescreen progressive house they made, two decades of which are collected on the 25 tracks of the new Anthology, but their brand of notquitetrance/notquitetechno floorfillers were indeed selfconsciously epic and transportive. Following the late1980s acidhouse revelation that turned so many UK synthpop alsorans into DJ kings, Underworld came to specialize in the kind of dance music that felt constrained in a tiny club space, records with enough space and depth to lose yourself in the swirl and flow, whether you were standing in a festival field surrounded by thousands of other bodies or strapped into a pair of headphones on your lonesome. Underworld had a live rock band's feel for pacing and drama, but were bornagain house music evangelists, through and through. \"Dark and Long (Dark Train)\" was the structuring principle for music of their peak music, as well as the title of one of their deepest, moodiest cuts. Despite Karl Hyde's nagging halfspoken and halfsung mantras, Underworld never really flirted with \"songwriting.\" Though his fragmentary, premillennium tension babble could be equally silly, Hyde wasn't the grimacing focal point of Underworld, as the two MCs were in the Prodigy. Even when they were stars, taking to festival stages rather than DJ booths, Underworld never tried to be personalities, letting DJ culture continue to dictate the shape and force and presentation of their music. Unlike unrepentant hookmeister Norman Cook, Underworld also didn't go for bigstoopidchorus and earwormloop immediacy, even when forced to shave their singles down to broadcast length. They simply attempted to recreate the peaksandvalleys of a club cut in miniature. \"Born Slippy .NUXX\" may be more headwrecking at its proper length, but the video version was like a hypercondensed advert for the same effect, angelic intro giving way to massive hard house drums that are the song's real hook. This dance essentialism disguised as crossover friendliness may have limited their appeal to pop fans once the \"electronica\" boom went pfft and many fairweather compilation buyers realized they really didn't care for 12minute instrumentals after all. But it makes Underworld ripe for rediscovery by a generation of new college kids who've dedicated themselves to recreating the 1990s house music they were barely alive for. After all, if you've got to go retro, go big. It's no surprise that Anthology collects these tracks at their full 12\"mix lengths, rather than their highlight reelstyle radio edits. All the more for you to swim around in. And those peaks certainly take you higher when the builds have been teased out to the limit. Plenty of DJs and producers have made \"huge\" dance records that nonetheless feel rather small as pop artifacts because they're aimed at insular subcultures. Several of Underworld's biggest records, in the musical sense of the word, were recorded and released when they were indeed clubcircuit draw on the rise and a music press rumor to the wider world, especially in America. 1993's \"Rez\", which builds with the controlled grandeur of precheesy continental trance but uses much of Detroit techno's sonic signature, would have been no one's idea of a chart smash. Its melodic hook is too abstract. Its repetitive structure is still aimed at allnight dancing rather than earworm immediacy. But the track's whole vibe is also too big to ignore, as if it's straining to some DJ's crates for a suburban poptechno radio utopia that didn't yet exist. If so many of these singles still sound like worldflattening anthems today, more than a decade after Underworld's commercial peak, it's partially due to the overwhelming ambition the music still projects, the idea that through luck and timing and canny crossmedia promotion and a kind of benign willtopower, they could bring (mostly) instrumental electronic music to a mass audience. They got their wish, though only many years into their career and after several failed attempts that have more or less been airbrushed from their official history. This most recent bestof collection is subtitled \"1992 to 2012\" because 20 years makes a respectable round number for official retrospection. But you'd be hardpressed to claim their earliest albums, where the best you can say is that they pulled a halfdecent sartorial imitation of Depeche Mode on the sleeve art, as part of the band's real legacy. Acid house's sweeping the UK in 1988 both freed them from silly pop preening and pointed out that their real strength was in stringing together adrenalinepumping climaxes along spacious beatscapes. They had a good run, about as long as any of their peers, and the idyllic ambient house and blownout filter disco sieved from 2002's A Hundred Days Off for Anthology promised good things for how Underworld would weather the rapid trendshifts of new millennium dance. Then the great house contraction occurred, and suddenly Underworld (like so many of their peers) seemed massively outofstep with the gaunt form dance hipness took with minimal. Almost a decade later, huge is back, in many forms, but what you hear now, with Underworld's particular brand of hugeness no longer the face of dance populism, is how it's the subtlety that keeps these anthems repeatlistenable, as much as the handsaloft moments. Damned as dance music afflicted with gigantism when techno started starving itself of hooks, Underworld were masters of restraint, nuance, and pace compared to today's prolefriendly producers, such as Skrillex and Deadmau5. There's all the attention to detail of your average deep house bore, along with a lot of pleasing bombast and (it must be said) some pretty damn dodgy lyrics. Don't play them for any neonclad goobers craving only the biggest bass drops, but if you're looking for a long and dark journey that eventually arrives at euphoria, you could still do a lot worse. "}