{"label":" Weird World","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17393/homepage_large.92a9dfcc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"Peaking Lights","title":"936 Remixes 12\"","text":" The two fulllengths from WisconsintoCalifornia duo Peaking Lights make the band alumni of both the NightPeople and Not Not Fun labels. If you find that part of their biography a bit incomprehensible, you may also be unaware that their 2011 fulllength, 936, was something of a triumph among the subset of music fans who still buy cassettes. Peaking Lights are currently at the heart of a new crop of underground, psychedelic pop groups. Their primitive sun worship is underpinned by a murky foundation of dub and drone, the layers filtered through the aural equivalent of a Xerox machine. You feel as if you are listening in on Peaking Lights, and their mantric hit \"All the Sun That Shines\" has always reminded me of a description the poet Allen Ginsberg once offered of Arthur Russell: \"Buddhist bubblegum.\" Peaking Lights are DIY in a raw sense; coleader Aaron Coyes even makes his own synthesizers. That detail is worth rehashing as a reminder that the group has thus far produced distinctly bohemian music. Its slow, deadpan atmosphere could be most appropriately paired with incense and burning candles. But between the layers of 936's hissy meanderings, there's a lot of breathing room, making the songs prime canvases for remixing. Not Not Fun began commissioning a remix EP for its danceoriented imprint 100% Silk in February 2011, but in the time required to finalize the release, Peaking Lights signed to Domino's Weird World label and issued a separate collection. The most successful reworkings on these releases are those that leave Peaking Lights' meditative character intact. While the idea of L.A.'s \"Ambassador of Boogie Funk\" DâmFunk remixing anything sounds worthy of a few spins, his take on \"All the Sun That Shines\" for Weird World is more or less a cover, transforming the track with a slick sheen and subtle fouronthefloor click. It's imaginative and well executed, but by the nature of being a DâmFunk creation, it compromises Peaking Lights' earthy, breathing tones for something a little too polished. It feels as though it'd work better as his own Bside. The same goes for Oakland zonerrap duo Main Attrakionz, who use elements of \"Marshmellow Yellow\" and \"Amazing and Wonderful\" as cloudground for a few skilled verses. Electronic duo Patten turn \"Hey Sparrow\" into something more esoteric, but drag it out to the point of feeling unedited. What the Weird World comp lacks is cohesion, which is unfortuante since dub and reggae connoisseur Adrian Sherwood's impressive remake of \"Tiger Eyes (Laid Back)\" is easily the best cut on either set. The British producer maintains the song's atmosphere and relaxed mystique, but makes its production boom, burying a subtle swarm of laserlike synths under crisp vocal melodies. The 100% Silk EP draws its remixers straight from the label's own pool of DIY dance producers, who since last year have emphasized a specific, lowbudget sound inspired by Italo disco and early Detroit house and techno. It's hypnagogic dance music for misfits and outsiders, pinning a punk philosophy to one indebted in some sense to Ariel Pink and YouTube's endless free music archive. Ital's Daniel MartinMcCormick, who also fronts the punk trio Mi Ami, offers a standout expansion of \"Marshmellow Yellow\", adding a driving beat and thudding bass that quicken the original's pace while maintaining its twodimensional cool. Xander Harris adds spiky, galactic synths to \"Birds of Paradise\", shedding the song of its echo wash while building the electronics in isolated layers, reminiscent of Peaking Lights' own technique. No remix of \"All the Sun That Shines\" is a match for the album cut's alien singsong charm, but Innergaze offer a welcome twist with warped vocal samples and a cosmic chug. On \"Tiger Eyes\", Cuticle pushes the vocals high and swaps gloom for wavering, skyhigh synths. The 100% Silk EP calls for repeat listens due to its maintenance of 936's cohesive, textured voice, and even more so for carrying on the album's ethos. "}