{"label":" Duke","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17402/homepage_large.5f961030.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Carrie Battan","artist":"AraabMuzik","title":"Instrumental University","text":" In the time since AraabMuzik linked up with Dipset and pegged himself to their reemergence with the doorsmashing \"Salute\" beat, he's become a web2.0 model of the hiphop producer as brand, mapping his aesthetic vision onto an array of contexts. The surfacebeautiful Electronic Dream, for example, introduced him to a wider audience in part because it veered from the toughersounding beats Araab makes for rappers. But it still made sense next to what came before, offering up an entrancing, selfcontained sound that grabbed at dance club roots but darkened and abstracted its samples to suggest something private and intimate. And he has a serious live reputation, with a unique approach to performance. AraabMuzik is a virtuoso percussionist whose instrument just happens to be an MPC pad, and longtime Dipset fans and fashionable interlopers alike elbow one another for space around his table, collectively freaking out over the physical spectacle. He's also booked for a Coachella slot this year, and says he's planning to release a collaborative project with equally dotedupon Harlem rapper A$AP Rocky. You'd be hardpressed to find a producer with as much reach as a solo commodity as Araab right now. He's having a moment. Given all of that, the timing of Instrumental University feels off. It's a serviceable sampler of harderknocking beats cleaved off largely unmemorable recent releases from some of his most trusted collaborators Lloyd Banks, Fabolous, Jim Jones and, of course, Dipset pals Cam'ron and Vado, among others. And while it's perfectly natural for a producer in AraabMuzik's position to make a beat tape it's a timehonored rap tradition, after all, and he's indulged before it's not something that fits the arc of his current upswing. As the cover implies, this is a release presumably aimed at beat nerds and aspiring rappers looking for tracks. That's disappointing if you're still high on Clams Casino's reimagining of what this sort of thing can be his thick and stoned Instrumental Mixtape from last spring reinvigorated the idea of the producer as auteur instead of background figure. But Instrumental University sticks to a more traditional script. Given the fact that he's charging money for these tracks (many of which first appeared on free mixtapes), and peppering them with his increasingly annoying drop, \"You are now listening to AraabMuzik,\" Instrumental University might seem like a selfcongratulatory stopgap if the beats weren't so consistently expert and sleek. He moves from the horrorfilm piano chords and signature echoey screams of \"1, 2, 3 Grind\" to the soulsampling, nearly Dipsetclassic vibe of \"Ain't Mad Acha\". The same sensibility is obviously behind it, but these tracks are built from a very different foundation than those found on billowy Electronic Dream. And because there are no beats taken from real hithits here (the instrumental from \"Salute\" and the unrelenting chipmunky smack of \"Rubberband Stacks\" are the closest we get), Araab avoids that unsatisfied lurch of anticipation for a familiar verse that never drops. In fact, there's a strong inverse relationship between the listenability of the instrumentals and the strength of the tracks with verses. So this is background music, sure, a workmanlike collection of beats that oscillates within a narrow but extremely proficient range of sound. Still, even for its failings as a proper album, Instrumental University is still quintessential Araab, constantly walking the razorsharp line between glimmery and ominous. At this point, he's still known first and foremost as someone who can pound the living daylight out of a set of MPC pads. But we're again reminded that his identity also rests in his distinctive ear for uneasy mood, a quality subtle and delicate and not tied to any one technique. "}