{"label":" Flying Nun","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17398/homepage_large.583ac26a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Tally Ho! Flying Nun's Greatest Bits","text":" Even among the topmost tier of hallowed indie rock labels, it's tough finding an imprint that's permeated underground music's subconscious as profoundly as Flying Nun. Founded in 1981, when punk's initial explosion was still ricocheting around globe, the Christchurch, New Zealandbased label put its faith in scrappy, locally grown pop music that was heavy on the jangly guitars, but generally low on polish, bands like the Clean, the Bats, the Chills, and the Tall Dwarfs. Virtually every decent guitar record pressed in the three decades since has owed some sort of debt to the Kiwi jangle pop see Galaxie 500's On Fire, Pavement's Slanted & Enchanted, or Yo La Tengo's Painful. I'm convinced that \"Pink Frosty\", from Fugazi's End Hits is a nod to the Chills' spooky postpunk classic, \"Pink Frost\", though I've never taken the initiative to verify it. (But, come on; listen to them back to back and tell me that they aren't similar.) More recently, bands such as Real Estate, Woods, Vivian Girls, and Crystal Stilts (basically, anything on Brooklynborn record label Woodsist) have picked up the torch for the janglepop side of imprint's oeuvre. It would wrong to label it a revival, though. In 30 years, the Flying Nun sound has never slipped too far from the conversation. Tally Ho is Flying Nun's greatesthits record, released partly to honor the label's 30th birthday. A 2xCD set, the compilation bundles together tunes from across the label's catalog, from late1980s classics to material gleaned from more recent signings. Flying Nun is no stranger to comp records. The label has already gathered together its outofprint singles (Where in the World is Wendy Broccoli?), lauded its contributions to the indiepop landscape (Speed of Sound), celebrated at least three birthdays with labelhistoryspanning mix CDs (10th, 21st years) and, for the 25th anniversary, an exhaustive 4xCD box set. This time around, they go for the middle ground. The late1980s groups that established the label's legend are all accounted for and frequently represented by their most recognizable songs, such as the Chills' shimmering \"Heavenly Pop Hit\" and the Clean's threechord classic, \"Tally Ho!\" from which the collection takes its name. But Tally Ho also weaves in some of the roster's lesser known acts bands like Look Blue Go Purple, Sneaky Feelings, and the Headless Chickens, that, until now, only your Audio Galaxymining college roommate ever had the wherewithal to dig up. The comp makes a concerted effort to avoid short changing Flying Nun's newer additions, but most seem skippable when slotted alongside groups from the label's late80s to mid90s golden era. Hearing 30 years of Flying Nun records stacked up alongside one another speaks well to the breadth of the label's taste. While the Dunedin Sound the jangle pop tones favored by the Chills, the Bats, and the Clean tends to steal the spotlight, Flying Nun's aesthetic is not easily pigeonholed. The label also ponied up the cash to release aggressive and noisy music, such as the Gordons, New Zealand's answer to Flipper (who later morphed into the more overtly psychedelic Bailter Space), and scrape and drone pioneers the Dead C. Loud, brutal, druggy music that couldn't possibly score a radio hit, even at the bottom of the world. "}