{"label":" RCA / Polo Grounds","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17426/homepage_large.09e34b86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Yo Gotti","title":"Live From the Kitchen","text":" Memphis' Yo Gotti is the latest subject in the rap industry's ongoing, longterm study: If an album is released in a Best Buy and no one is around to purchase it, does it exist? As it pertains to Live From the Kitchen the rapper's first majorlabel album, despite having been in the game for over a decade the answer might as well be no. To be fair, 16,000 people bought it in its first week, but amongst his fans, there's little doubt that Live instantly took a backseat to the mixtapes and tracks that preceded it. That's something close to a shame, because it's a solid, listenable, bluecollar rap album, the sort of thing that used to start careers as opposed to branding them dead on arrival. Live From the Kitchen sounds like a professionally mastered mixtape, which explains why it succeeds artistically while failing commercially. On the one hand, Gotti stays in his lane, repeating the textbook trap music that he's been pumping out for years with slight updates from producers du jour like Lil Lody and Mike Will. On the other, the updates are very slight, and any of these songs could be dropped into an installment of Gotti's Cocaine Music mixtape series without anyone being the wiser it's hard to expect many people to pay for something that they've routinely been given for free over the course of a few years. It is that consistency that is Gotti's calling card, and he carries it over to Live From the Kitchen with ease. He is a classic example of a rapper succeeding as much for how he sounds when saying something as opposed to what he says, but his lyrics have a striking directness that has allowed him to build the type of grassroots fanbase that can serve as a livelihood, even if they don't show up to retail stores. \"Testimony\", the album's opening track, is a perfect example: Not only does Gotti sound inherently right over DJ Montay's synth horns, but the outlining of his upbringing as a street dealer features no hint of braggadocio or cinematic theatrics. The tone isn't as much somber as it is unflinchingly matteroffact, which is an approach that still holds its appeal even during the reign of Rick Ross. But the corollary here is that, although Gotti can easily work off of this blueprint, he rarely, if ever, transcends it. As far as dealersturnedrappers go, there's a reason why he has never reached the heights of T.I. or Young Jeezy or Gucci Mane. He has neither the personality nor the pop instincts of those guys, and that becomes a problem over the course of a fulllength. Tracks like \"Harder\" and \"Cases\" are perfectly fine Southern rap records, but for the top songs on the album, they're distinctly void of anything that would make them standout amongst a deluge of similarsounding songs that flood the market on a routine basis. Maybe the fate of Live From the Kitchen which, just to really hammer it home, had its lead single released in May of 2009 is merely illustrative of the industry being the survival of the fittest. But it's hard not to sympathize a bit with Yo Gotti, who willingly entered into the majorlabel system because, well, that's just what rappers do, even though his fate seemed more or less preordained from the start. His debut album as a \"rap star\" will be followed by many mixtapes that sound just like it and are basically just as good, but unfortunately for him, that works out way better for the listener than it does the artist. "}