{"label":" Mexican Summer / Software","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17435/homepage_large.affaf44d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Carlos Giffoni","title":"\"Evidence\" 12\"","text":" In Bill Brewster and Frank Broughton's Last Night a DJ Saved My Life, the authors point out how the earliest acidhouse tracks produced in Chicago in the late 1980s had more ties with the avantgarde than with the house sound that was getting Top 40 attention in certain parts of the globe. Listening back to Phuture's epic \"Acid Tracks\" outside of a club environment can push you into a cold, harsh, solitary state of mind. It's not quite the sound of dance music retreating from its inclusionary vibe, as packed dancefloors spread out over innumerable acid revivals can testify. But early acid tracks like Lil' Louis' \"Video Clash\" and Armando's \"Downfall\" point inward more than they do outward, accelerating away from the handsintheair solidarity of club culture and into a far more isolated space. Most of the acid revivals over the years have disengaged from that side of the genre Fatboy Slim and the big beat movement of the midtolate 1990s took all the slippery twists of the Roland TB303 and funneled them into happier, stadiumfilling anthems. But lately there's been a small band of musicians picking up on the raw, untrammeled nihilism of the earliest acid house tracks, singling out the sheer brute force of its core components and fusing them with outside influences. Factory Floor are the most high profile among them, singlehandedly creating their own new acid underground with additional nods to pop, industrial, and the clearlines aesthetic of their partial namesakes, Factory Records. In New York, the Venezuelan electronic musician Carlos Giffoni, mostly known for his excursions into noise, has spent the last few years digging into a similar set of influences. His No Fun Acid project, named by mashing up components of his No Fun festival and record label with his obvious debt to the sound of DJ Pierre and his cohorts, was flooded with tinny pitterpatter drum patterns and the burbling screeches of a thoroughly agitated 303. On \"Evidence\", a twosong 12\" for Ford & Lopatin's Software label, Giffoni takes the next logical step in the evolution of that sound, imprinting more of his personality on the work by cloaking it in the nebulous textures of his prior output. In a recent installment of the Out Door, Marc Masters highlighted how a number of mainstays in the noise scene have retreated from allout sonic assault, turning to quieter corners for inspiration. \"Evidence\" ties into that trend, beginning with a simple piano and vocal piece that mirrors the feeling his label boss, Daniel Lopatin, as Oneohtrix Point Never, conjured up with Antony on \"Returnal\" in 2010. From there, Giffoni coats the track in an inflexible block of acidic sound and his detached, colorless vocal, creating a jarring juxtaposition between delivery and verse (\"it would be so easy to fall in love with you\"). It's sparse and unrelentingly downbeat, with a few cracks of light hacked into the murk by guest player Laurel Halo, credited with \"manually mechanized piano and synth riffage.\" The other track here, \"Desire in the Summer\", is similarly drained of emotion, sounding like the slashedup noise passages from Giffoni's Arrogance slowly sinking into battle with his new acid impulses. Again, his bonedry delivery percolates throughout, positioning him as a survivor standing in the rubble as two genres go to war around him. This is a departure for Giffoni, even from the more clubfriendly No Fun Acid project. But it feels like a natural space for him to land in, a way to align the abandon of his noise projects with the avant side of club culture that has obviously inspired him. \"Change is good,\" Giffoni said, in a 2010 interview with the Quietus. On \"Evidence\", that desire for change has thrown key restraints on his sound, galvanizing him to create his most unique and bullish musical statement to date. "}