{"label":" Slumberland","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17465/homepage_large.2ac068b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Frankie Rose","title":"Interstellar","text":" Frankie Rose spent a few years kicking around the Brooklyn janglepop scene before striking out on her own: As the most charismatic member of Vivian Girls, Crystal Stilts, and Dum Dum Girls, she was a reliable bolt of onstage electricity enlivening the often noncommittal presences around her. It was pretty clear, even then, that she was eventually destined for bigger things, but her first solo record, recorded under the name Frankie Rose and the Outs, still felt constrained by a reflexive sort of coolkid slouch. Between that record and Interstellar, she has dropped the pretense of a backing band entirely, and is recording simply as \"Frankie Rose.\" The implicit point is clear: This time around, she's going for it. The first moments of \"Interstellar\" make this point immediately. The song opens on a coolblue vista of synthesizers, a transportingly vast sound of the sort Frankie's never made before. When her voice enters the mix, cooing about interstellar highways and moon dust, it's piped from above, passed through a series of filters so until she slightly resembles the Laurie Anderson of \"O Superman\". A minute in, a massive, Valhallapound drum hit resounds, the synths explode sideways, and Frankie hurls us down a flume ride of descending vocal harmonies. It's the most colorful, thrilling music of her career, and as grand a pronouncement as one can make that we're not doing things the same way anymore. Interstellar is a big, secondalbum leap of faith into deeper waters, a sparkling synthpop record that wants very badly to mean something to dreamy, hyperemotional twentysomethings. For her model, she's taken the impression of some of the dreamiest, most hyperemotional records of her youth. The production on Interstellar is gorgeous, and clearly modeled on the Cure's big, panoramic pop records, like Disintegration: boomingcanyon drums, acres of spannable horizon. The drum beat that opens up \"Know Me\" is virtually identical to that of \"Close to Me\", and the silvery guitar leads on \"Gospel/Grace\" are pretty much mimeographed from \"Plainsong\". But although Rose indulges pretty heavily in the Cure's primary colors, she paints something distinctly her own with them. The world of Interstellar is a vision of paradise as lifted from the front of a Trapper Keeper: airbrushed, pastelhued, and gloriously vivid. Interstellar is not a thematically rich experience it basically has one single invitation, and that is to swim with Frankie in the glorious bath of echoes she's drawn for herself. \"All that I want is a pair of wings to fly/ Into the blue, a wide open sky/ Show me your scars, I'll show you mine/ Perched out of the city on a pair of power lines,\" she sings over and over on \"Pair of Wings\", and you can hear this yearning for escape echoed in the record's every upwardspiralling note. Her singing has always been breathy and modest, but on Interstellar, her voice seems to mist on contact, even when she's swirling herself into a prismatic minichoir of Frankies. On her record, she's just another celestial body orbiting larger ones. The resulting album isn't one you actively explore so much as bask in gratefully. The longer I spend immersed in it, the more I appreciate its details: the haunting, truncated piano chords that the melody of \"Apples for the Sun\" clumps around, or the way Frankie's voice melts into and becomes one with the bloom of synthesized strings in the last minute of \"Gospel/Grace\". Rose is tapping the same slightly shameless clear eyes/full hearts well of teen melodrama that sourced M83's Hurry Up, We're Dreaming, and she demonstrates the same kind of focus and vision in carrying it off. On Interstellar, she transports us further and takes us higher than she ever could have as the drummer of an indie pop revivalist band. Amen to breaking free of sonic restrictions when they outlive their usefulness. "}