{"label":" Swill Children","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17464/homepage_large.bde7d546.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Lucky Dragons","title":"Existers","text":" While the Los Angelesbased duo Lucky Dragons utilizes music in its interdisciplinary work, it's not really a band. Sarah Rara and Luke Fischbeck clearly favor museums and galleries over concert halls and nightclubs. They pay more attention to context than content, and spontaneous audience interaction (in the Pauline Oliveros mold) is at the heart of their project. Their albums tend to feel like annexes of what they call \"interactive performances and installations,\" rather than selfcontained works measurable by conventional standards. But as disjointed as Widows and Dream Island Laughing Language could be, they were redeemed by their energy and zippy ideas, which had cumulative force even when they were individually slight. If one electroacoustic doodad didn't interest you, another was always right on its heels. It's hard to make the same concession to the new Existers, where the ideas are almost insultingly thin. After recording uncharacteristic drones \"inside of an egg, a pyramid, and on top of a mountain\" for 2011's Shape Tape, Lucky Dragons return to the technotribal primitivism of their earlier albums on this limitededition collaboration with visual artist Jesse Hlebo of Swill Children. Dominated by tuned and textured percussion, the marbled tones of modular synthesizers, and electronically dismembered voices, it's full of sounds that get stuck and repeat, inert elements clashing with constantly changing ones, and harmonic patterns that spectrally multiply. Sometimes, it strikes a decent balance between the grimy attack of Excepter and the dreamy flow of HansJoachim Roedelius. Often, it sounds like scraps Gang Gang Dance would have left on the figurative cuttingroom floor. The album is startlingly profligate with its 21minute lifespan, casting about for inspiration as if it's got all day. Indifferent sequencing shines a harsh light on Existers' dearth of content. Only three of its seven songs are developed enough to earn the designation, and they occupy track positions one, two, and six. Brief interstitials can work great between substantial compositions that's why they're called interstitials! but three of them in a row is not a good look. After the lightweight but adequately wrought arcs of the title track and \"What You See is What You Get\", we're left to stare down the barrel of a couple of happy accidents with a looping pedal and a reprise of an already wornout motif, until the purposefully driving \"Mirror Makers\" seems to capture Lucky Dragons remembering that this is supposed to be an album for other humans to enjoy, not a private jam session. That all flies out the window on \"No Weapons\", where Fischbeck just sings the title over some kalimbasounding tones for a couple of minutes, and we're done.   Lucky Dragons are in the habit of sandbagging their music with outrageously elevated rhetoric, and Existers is no exception. \"EXISTERS,\" we're told, \"resist without intervening, subsist without consuming.\" It's a meretricious piety that becomes flatout absurd when attached to a physical, commercial artifact that creates imaginary value through artificial scarcity. At best, it's disingenuously flattering; at worst, it reveals a fatal blind spot between what Lucky Dragons are doing and what they think they're doing. The very real dilemma for artists who are wary of the marketplace to make products or not to make products? is not satisfactorily resolved by making halfassed products under the guise of some vague brand of resistance. All praises due to those who break the mold, but if you're going to make (and sell) a record? Make a fucking record. "}