{"label":" Metal Blade / Poison Tongue","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17466/homepage_large.38305d4f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Pilgrim","title":"Misery Wizard","text":" Last year the two headiest stories in heavy metal keyed largely on transgression: There was Liturgy, of course, the Ivy League Brooklyn boys in tattered jeans and baggy tshirts. They mixed black metal with mathrock and ecstatic classicism while writing a manifesto, making electronic music, and quoting David Tibet. Some people didn't like their attitude. And then there was Lulu, a collaboration between five very rich men who were so important to so many people in so many different contexts that culture critic Chuck Klosterman deigned to, once again, write about heavy music for a website bankrolled by ESPN, no less. Both of these scenarios included, for better and worse, someone crossing into new territory and subsequently raising either hackles or heckles. But every battle doesn't have to be won or lost on a bleeding edge, an axiom that the young and enthusiastic doom metal trio Pilgrim keeps sacred. There's nothing shocking or even provocative to report about these three, except maybe that their noms de guerre are incredible: the Wizard sings and plays guitar; Krolg Splinterfest, Slayer of Man slays his drums; and Count Elric the Soothsayer thumbs the bass. Otherwise, the news is that their debut album, Misery Wizard, is an extraordinarily enjoyable if stylistically ordinary entrée into a field that's spawned dozens of offshoots and hybrids during the last four decades. The primary influences here are as obvious as they are legion Black Sabbath, Cathedral, Candlemass, Sleep, Saint Vitus, and Electric Wizard, just to shake the ashes off the tip of the old joint. But in a realm where the oldschool and the experimental push against one another in an eternally dynamic nonequilibrium, it's certainly not about who your influences are. It's, of course, about how you use them. Pilgrim simply have fun with these predecessors, renewing old sounds with the zeal of teenage boys worshipping cheap Sabbath posters on their bedroom walls and the skills of players who've been at this for a while. Pilgrim sing about devils and tears, paying dues and surviving adventures, taking care to touch on most of the requisite tropes while not pushing any one too far. Misery Wizard isn't the sort of record whose importance will likely outlive its 55 discipleship minutes, but that has more to do with time and context than quality. This is an excellent debut from a preternaturally developed upstart. In an interview last month, BrooklynVegan baited the revivalist hook perfectly for Pilgrim, asking if the band was interested in integrating strains of other doom alloys into its sound. \"No, that stuff doesn't really interest us. We like 'true doom metal,' the classics!\" replied fullthroated singer and rifflurching guitarist the Wizard. \"We don't have time to sit around sulking. We are always ready for whatever quest lies before us.\" Actually, Pilgrim sound more than ready. With a level of control that suggests contemporaries Yob, they march through each of these six tracks with steely resolve, not a miss among the bunch. The fourminute onslaught \"Adventurer\" manages all of the impact of \"Masters of the Sky\", a beastly, teasing, 11minute trudge that spotlights the band's understanding of pacing and patience. Though their espousal of doom is spoton, they twist a few tricks into Misery Wizard, like the coda of \"Quest\" that suggests postrock heights and a demoninvoking chant on the back end of closer \"Forsaken Man\". And like Pallbearer, the Arkansas doom squadron whose debut arrives only a week after this one, Pilgrim are as good with vocals as without them. On opener \"Astaroth\", for instance, while the band crackles over a hypnotic groove, the Wizard's bellow retrenches the force rather than distracting from it. In spite of age or debut status, Pilgrim works as an efficient unit. That's always a pleasure to witness, no matter the transgression or relative lack thereof. "}