{"label":" Fool's Gold","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17477/homepage_large.e0ffae3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Nick Catchdubs / Jackie Chain","title":"After Hours","text":" The Huntsville, Alabama, MC Jackie Chain first surfaced on the national radar thanks to an odd single titled \"Rollin'\". It's become something of a minor cult classic; with a Guccisampling hook and a beat that is basically just a loop of Robert Miles' trance song \"Children\", \"Rollin'\" still doesn't sound like any other dance music/hiphop blend, because its goal was not to operate as functional dance music in any capacity. Compared with the fouronthefloor Guetta sound common today, Block Beattaz had laced Jackie with a track that emulated ecstasy's emotional rush while leaving the dancing to someone else. Jackie's latest tape with DJ Nick Catchdubs, After Hours, follows a similar formula. Despite the frequent references to club sounds new and old, the tape is closer in function to the Beatnuts' brand of ignorant partyrap than to Pitbull or Flo Rida. Instead of sampling the dance music of the 1960s, 70s, and 80s, though, this music draws on sample sources that rose in the wake of the rave. What helps make this release work is that it studiously avoids being just a club record; it simply references club records. \"Moving\" runs off of a sample that was everywhere the past few years; Etta James' \"Something's Got a Hold on Me\" was transformed into trance by Avicii, which was in turn remixed by Skrillex and played everywhere; shortly afterward, Flo Rida borrowed the same vocal sample. But Jackie's version actually uses Pretty Lights \"Finally Moving\", which is primarily loungeesque triphop, not functional club music. To keep this interesting, it helps that Catchdubs has given him a wealth of clever and unexpected reference points; there are obvious novelty club samples from Scatman John's \"I'm a Scatman\". The album's climax is \"Molly\", an ode to the ubiquitous ecstasy pill with a euphoric saxophone sample swiped directly from Guido's \"Mad Sax\". There are exceptions, but thanks in part to Catchdubs' excellent work sequencing the record they end up feeling like a part of the overall ebb and flow. It's doubtful that DJ Burn One a largely traditionalist \"southern rap tunes\" advocate planned that his \"Don't Violate\" production would provoke the overwhelming nausea of a bad trip, but that's effectively its role on the tape. One of the things that keeps the record relentlessly entertaining, of course, is Jackie Chain himself. He's a completely onedimensional personality, which is perfect; it's a performance of partyrap ignorance with few peers, and his distinctive, shouted, capslock flow is the perfect blunt object to effectively convey raw ego. Not that the record is onenote; it manages to capture a wide range of variations on the partying theme. It's just that Jackie's role is to be the same consistent hardhead throughout. His character has no flaws or vulnerabilities; he's simply a partying everyman, his only motivations drugs, booze, money, and women. No one likes thinking about the consequences of stupid behavior, and that's exactly what Jackie Chain is offering: consequencefree hedonism in exactly the right setting. "}