{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17471/homepage_large.41937f84.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Martin Douglas","artist":"La Big Vic","title":"Dub the World! Actually Remixed","text":" The law of diminishing returns is exceedingly relevant when it comes to remix albums. Generally, the practice is to take an album that was already good, put its songs in the hands of other artists, and cross your fingers in hopes that they'll turn in something interesting. Then, they give it to the label, pick the best (and/or catchiest) songs, and repeat the album release cycle with minimal legwork. At best, you'll have an interesting collection of tunes, one that does things the artist would have probably never tried. At worst, the whole process will be every bit as cynical as it sounds. In rare cases, you'll end up with an album that can hold its own against your best material. That said, the idea of a band reinterpreting its own work, in spite of its also being a crapshoot, rarely ceases to be a fascinating venture. Even if it manages to be a drudge of a listen, minimal to the point of being skeletal, or simply a mess, there's always the thought process whether a clear musical narrative, an exploration into uncharted territory, or simply an attempt to improve the original that serves as a conceptual anchor. For a band as wildly cosmopolitan as Brooklyn's La Big Vic, a trio that includes Pitchfork contributor Emilie Friedlander, it serves as a chance to recontextualize itself without dulling its sonic expansiveness. In fact, the group's sound houses so many components that paring them down and using a clear focal point yields some tremendous results. As a lot of Actually was built on the improvisational instincts of the band, it's no surprise that the dub plates used here are simply a foundation for them to mess with the (already loose) structure of the originals, to venture off into even more farout territory. Fragments of the original songs are chopped, blurred, and stretched to fit their new grooves, while new harmonies, instruments, and even looped snatches of digital ephemera from other songs (and what sounds like a retro radio commercial) are woven into the whole. \"Mr. Broken Bird Dub\" dulls the propulsive bounce of its source song into something of an anticlimax when filtered into dub the opposite effect of the original but most of the tracks do a fine job of adjusting. La Big Vic's proclivity for improvisation is best exemplified on \"LYNY Dub\" and opener \"Everybody Needs Jah (FAO Dub)\", where they take the most recognizable melodies of their originals and fuse them with a host of elements: pedaltreated synths, exploratory guitar work, even a section of uncut dialogue from Friedlander, trying to make heads or tails of a freshly recorded take. The concentration required to seamlessly merge as many styles as they do is the calling card of La Big Vic, but just as important is their innate ability to go offscript, creating a sound as natural, imperfect, and human as it is out of this world. When you think about it as farflung as their members are, as many worldmusic elements are subtly used in their music La Big Vic making a dub album isn't very far out of the realm of possibility. Dub is essentially a platform for experimental artists to utilize their most improvisational techniques and couple them with a strong (but not unbendable) rhythmic anchor. Actually was an album that achieved these goals by throwing out the rule book. It's not surprising then that a remix album that sets a clear template, while allowing the band to explore the outer recesses of its sound, is every bit as vital as the work from which it was derived. "}