{"label":" Stones Throw","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17489/homepage_large.24f862c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Minimal Wave Tapes Vol. 2","text":" Amidst all the handwringing about the effects of software on electronic music, we've lost sight of one of the charms the softsynth era has robbed us of: the joy of listening to artists learn to play with machines. Software like Ableton, Reason, and Maschine have steep learning curves but long plateaus. True amateurs don't sound blocky and tinny like vintage 808s that can require real skill but merely undistinguished. The Minimal Wave Tapes captures a group of farflung amateurs putting themselves through the paces of learning early model drum machines and synthesizers, nibbling on techno, electro, and industrial music in ways that led to a distinct sound. I imagine their relationship to these instruments to be much the same as children tormenting one another: learning what parts to pinch, twist, and pull in order to achieve the desired effect. The Minimal Wave Tapes Vol. 2 is again compiled by Stones Throw head Peanut Butter Wolf and Minimal Wave label founder Veronica Vasicka. It offers no new narrative or stated focus and thus represents nothing more than the second gleaning of tracks from the cloistered minimal wave universe. Still, there's something undeniable here. We're dealing with a sound that grew in loosely knit local networks hundreds of miles from one another and decades later has inspired DIY archivists and collectors. If nothing else we can say that this sound still reedy, redeyed, and frayed is magnetic enough that disparate groups have arrived at it without much aid. Minimal wave is, perhaps, a natural sound to produce when you're isolated and have machines to fondle. And these musicians understood how isolated they were: \"The Drum\", a severe, pothole ridden jam, opens with a warped voice, \"Hello, my name is Ohama, and I live on a potato farm in western Canada.\" The liner notes for Vol. 2 are short but specific, often naming the specific drum machines, keyboards, and recordings equipment used. I'm reminded of the famous Silver Jews line, \"When the sun sets on the ghetto all the broken stuff gets cold.\" Replace \"ghetto\" with \"small European city.\" Intentional or not, Vol. 2 sounds more robust. There's fewer papiermâché dance numbers and more carbonated sequencer work. The prototechno of Antonym's \"Cinnamon Air\" and the congested arpeggios of Das Ding's \"H.S.T.A.\" shift focus from the tinny drums that dominated Vol. 1. \"What Happened to You?\", by Belgian duo Subject, builds lofi science fiction around a stonesimple 2/4 rhythm. These mostly instrumental tracks are ripe for remixing. The only \"modern\" track is Geneva Jacuzzi's \"The Sleep Room\", recorded in 2004, and it employs buzzy postpunk to detail a haunted, psychedelic village: \"Love to the village with the holes/ In their heads.\" At the end of his review of Vol. 1 in The Wire, Mark Fisher said \"This compilation is like the Nuggets of early 1980s bedroom electronica.\" Maybe. Nuggets tracks were cumulative, each one participating in a national explosion of psychedelic rock. It made sense to pile them on top of one another. These minimal waves are are less celebratory and sometimes I feel that by collecting them I'm participating in a nolongerimposed isolationism. That's dramatic, though. Minimal wave, as a genre, is rich enough to warrant a second compilation aimed at nonobsessives. Vol. 2 once again contains a kind of stylized amateurism that's all but extinct. "}