{"label":" Brainfeeder","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17491/homepage_large.49c7ca39.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonah Bromwich","artist":"Lapalux","title":"When You're Gone EP","text":" Brainfeeder kingpin Flying Lotus has a talent for stargazing. The label's ranks include jazz fusionists (Thundercat, Austin Peralta), psychrap futurists (Samiyam, Teebs), and the endearingly inscrutable (Matthewdavid) existing together in dazzling constellation. But when Baths signed to Anticon, Brainfeeder lost their experimental pop artist, the kind of producer who could marry headswiveling beats to ghostly vocals. Consider that niche filled. Lapalux, aka Stuart Howard, makes a similar type of sparkling deconstructed pop. He fits the Brainfeeder aesthetic perfectly, as he likes to envision his songs as aural paintings a visual tiein obviously appealing to a synaesthete like FlyLo. Lapalux's snares first started snapping on his remix of Thundercat's \"For Love I Come\". Suddenly, a relatively straightforward love song turned fuzzy and discombobulated, as if the track had been put on small wheels and spun around a room until it was too dizzy to keep its parts in order. The Essex native's aesthetic has advanced on the When You're Gone EP. The tracks sound like amniotic imaginings of more accessible songs: all parts present but rearranged with avantgarde abandon. The structure of \"102 Hours of Introductions\" is practically nonexistent on first listen: gliding with faint keys and a wispy voice, as though Howard's setting up the listener for a massive drop. Instead, the beat is disarmingly light, softly swathed in a vocal that repeats ad infinitum: \"I've been waiting so long. Give your love to me, baby.\" For a label that's made its name on galvanizing the spare parts of hiphop, soldering them into novel formations, and blasting that formation into the stratosphere, When You're Gone is surprisingly needy. But that's the point of Brainfeeder: Expectations are expected to be upended. Lapalux's specialty is fusing the label's sense of meticulous beatcraft to tease out the meanings behind the sampled lyrics. \"Moments\" begins with a lyricist languidly confessing: \"I keep moments of you trapped in film.\" As the song unfurls, the singer's utterings become swamped in sonic ooze, mirroring the song's theme. The effect is jarring, and at the song's conclusion, he cuts through the sentimentality, warping the moment that the singer once deeply treasured. But it's not all dark. The best songs, the bewitching single \"Gutter Glitter\" and stuttering disco workout \"Yellow 90's\", are lithe and light. The former starts with an elliptical loop but quickly skitters into a James Blakelike R&B track a voice hovering above buzzing bass and fluttering synths. Howard acts as a conductor here, demanding that specific sections express themselves with more volume. \"Yellow 90's\" seems the most traditionally ordered and even veers toward danceable. Yet once you're locked in the groove, the chair is removed and the song unravels. However, the song stays afloat, ending on a patch of gorgeous haze and a delirious lingering confusion. Howard's Brainfeeder debut shatters expectations, offering an always shifting balance of alien and familiar. It's not perfect. The closer, \"Face Down, Eyes Shut\", tries so hard to be enigmatic that it dissolves into nothing. But more often, When You're Gone reveals a stunning beauty within its small moments. "}