{"label":" Bureau B","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17487/homepage_large.8118f637.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Ulrich Schnauss / Mark Peters","title":"Underrated Silence","text":" Ulrich Schnauss knows what he likes, namely the amorphous rush of shoegaze and the swooning teenage dreams of 1980s synthpop and goth at its most feathery and unthreatening, all of it run through a slick spritz of turnofthemillennium IDM. And he's been giving it to us for over a decade now, both solo and as a member of Engineers, regardless of whether or not these homages to 4AD's imperial years and the less convoluted side of Warp offer anything new or vibrant. Schnauss has managed to make a career for himself on being just pleasant enough to keep you from turning off any of his records in midflow, but I can't think of any Schnauss track that's surprised me or stuck with me or compelled me to click \"repeat.\" And even if you class Schnauss as an ambient artist, well, even the best ambient music makes you want to linger in its world for one more play. The very title of Underrated Silence, his new collaboration with fellow Engineer Mark Peters, poses a probably unintentional, sort of mean but not entirely unfair, question about Schnauss' approach. Given the terabytes of sound you've probably amassed at this point, is enjoying a few moments of silence preferable to filling that time with something this pretty but anodyne, wellmade but insubstantial, polite to the point of barely registering? All the familiar notes from Schnauss projects past are struck here, and once again they all verge on stirring some emotion without usually doing so. More unfortunate are the moments when Schnauss and Peters aim for surprising or affecting and veer straight into kitsch. \"The Child or the Pigeon\" wants to be some sort of pastoral ambient/folk hybrid and winds up bringing to mind a new age album that John Denver never got around to making. Elsewhere the borrowings are both more blatant and less icky, but nonetheless bland when strung together. \"Forgotten\" somehow manages to evoke a halfdozen familiar sounds Julee Cruise coos, Tangerine Dream synths, Cure gloom, the ticktock rhythms of early electronic music without managing to evoke much in you, the listener. \"Amoxicilin\" is to Frippertronics what generic caffeinefree diet cola is to chasing slugs of Red Bull with spoonfuls of sugar. There's been no shortage of this sort of ethereal strumandwoosh (with or without beats) over the last 25 years, but every so often someone will come along with a take that makes it all seem grand (if not exactly revelatory) once again. Schnauss is never going to be that guy, and at this point you're either okay with that or you stopped listening around 2006. Way back then, Pitchfork's Mark Richardson wrote that Schnauss' music \"begs for a riskier approach, something with bolder strokes and an infusion of drama that risks cheesiness.\" Six years later, that remains truer than ever, and while there's nothing wrong with being the kind of musician who fixes on small gestures and easily identifiable reference points, the luster is still steadily wearing away from Schnauss' bricolaged miniatures. "}