{"label":" Brick Squad Monopoly","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17481/homepage_large.512d22f6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Soderberg","artist":"Various Artists","title":"808 Mafia","text":" The Lex Luger beat an ugly tangle of glitching rhythms, hissing hihats, and booming lowend currently dominates urban radio. Its ubiquity isn't a surprise. Rap is forever falling in love with a production style and then shamelessly squeezing all the life out of it. But at the risk of sounding like a curmudgeon, something is different this time around. It's all a bit more numbing than usual. Thanks to computer technology, which makes spoton mimicry quite easy, and facilitated by the industry's embrace of ruthlessly utilitarian music (see also: dubstep, fouronthefloor europop), there's no demand to gently tweak the Lex Luger formula. 808 Mafia, Lex and fellow Atlanta producer Southside's personal crew of guys mining the Luger sound (BeBop, Bobby Beats, Purps, Tarentino, and Trackman), are creative enough to keep this rapidly agingout style vital. The joy of this mixtape is hearing it done by originatorapproved copycats and observing the way that each production subtly differentiates itself from the other. Often, it's with something as simple as throwing in a distinctive sound, like the flickering synth on BeBop's \"Gold 2\" or the thick, Vangelis score fog in the background of \"Ripe\" by Tarentino. On the best tracks, though, it's a precarious balance between giving listeners exactly what they're anticipating and slyly tipping the sound in a new direction. Mixtape highlight \"Genn\" from Purps could easily be mistaken for some forgotten strain of UK dubstep. Anchored by a whirling, creepy organ and ominous synth horns, it seems more leisurely than the rest of the instrumentals. This is a Luger beat that isn't in a rush to unleash the drums a beatdrop anticipated by traprap fiends much the same way bassheads wait for dubstep's drop and it seems just as excited to fill the downtime with stonedout atmosphere. Is it necessary for Bobby Beats' \"808 One\" to stretch to seven minutes? Probably not, but it's a terrifying march of a beat, and the confidence to let it rattle and pound for this long suggests some kind of strange ambition. But when the rewards of loud, evil rap beats are in the tiniest of details, something is seriously wrong. Had 808 Mafia arrived a year or so ago, perhaps it would have been a bit more mindblowing. The problem is, instrumental hiphop, thanks to AraabMuzik, Clams Casino, and others, has made 808 Mafia's beattape approach seem underwhelming. A fun game for your ears though, is trying to imagine the Lex Luger beat as new again, not pounded into the ground by popular radio. Luger and his peers, minions, and imitators cut traprap's mid2000s Wagnerian synth bangers down to size, removing the grandiosity, replacing it all with an ugly, eardrumattacking snap and crack, and turning mix shows into an hourlong crunkpunk cacophony. 808 Mafia isn't a gamechanging instrumental mixtape, but it is a nice reminder of the vitality of the increasingly limp Lex Luger sound. "}