{"label":" Hanson","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17492/homepage_large.96c1b86f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Aaron Dilloway","title":"Modern Jester","text":" It's been six years since Aaron Dilloway left Wolf Eyes, and he spent half that time making Modern Jester. That's not all he's done he's been involved in tons of other releases too, with my favorite being either 2007's rattling Chain Shot or 2008's The Squid, a collaboration with likeminded noise pal C. Spencer Yeh. But in terms of scope and ambition, Modern Jester is Dilloway's War and Peace. It covers practically all of his sonic obsessions, stretching them to lengths at which he can explore every detail and tangent. The result seven pieces encompassing four sides of vinyl feels like a major statement, even if it's made of wordless, sometimes harsh noise. What exactly is Dilloway trying to say? That's open to interpretation, which is probably his intention. He's into ambiguity, both musically and discographically (he already released a tape called Modern Jester back in 2008, though only one track from that survives here). But as amorphous as his message may be, it's always about the power and attraction of loops. Each track here features some kind of repetitive cycle, whether it's off in the distance or up in your face. Some are lopsided and woozy; others are sharp and punchy; still others are so subtle they're more like ambient atmospheres or dense drones. But dig in deep enough, and you'll find Dilloway repeating some sound, whether miniscule or massive. Those sounds flow together so seamlessly that he's often like a noise DJ, beatmatching his loops so it's hard to tell where each begins and ends. Aptly enough, the piece where he does that best is called \"Body Chaos\", a 19minute journey taking up all of side two. Portions are like an alternateuniverse dance track, as noises melt into each other, burst into anarchic climaxes, then recede into sparse echo. When Dilloway settles into that steady mode, Modern Jester becomes a travelogue where words and pictures are replaced by sonic textures. Such naturalism makes sense given Dilloway's obsession with field recordings. He originally left Wolf Eyes to live in Kathmandu, where he amassed an archive of reallife audio. He released some of it in the fascinating 4xCDR box set Sounds of Nepal, but he's also used it throughout his solo recordings, and I suspect parts are embedded in Modern Jester. Many moments feel environmental at points I imagine a train rolling down tracks, a printing press clacking out sheets of paper, and a power plant chugging smoke into the sky. And even when his music sounds more like a broken circuit or a skipping record, it has the primacy of life's routines the way the world seems to loop around you in repetitive patterns as you navigate your way through it. That universality doesn't mean this album is for everyone. It takes some stamina to get lost in these lengthy sound essays. But then Dilloway has never done anything the easy way. If he tried to make his music more accessible, it would likely lose its core power. Instead, he's supremely patient, and he wants you to be, too. If you're up for it, Modern Jester rewards that patience infinitely. "}