{"label":" Atlantic / Warner Bros. / Homeschool","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17507/homepage_large.e36bb001.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Estelle","title":"All of Me","text":" \"I'm not ofthemoment. I am a classic, yeah, I live at the MoMA,\" Estelle says in \"The Life\", the opening song from her new album All of Me. The UK rapper/singer intends this as a boast, of course, but it also highlights a key difference between her and most of the other women in her field. Which is to say, in a genre where a certain amount of flash has come to be expected, Estelle is decidedly unflashy. She raps and sings well but doesn't rely on quirk or theatrics. She incorporates styles from reggae to boombap into her songs, but doesn't try to forge weird new genre hybrids. She sings about grownup stuff like personal contentment and finding clarity after a breakup. For lack of a better term, she's normal. This works both for and against her. On the one hand, it's hard to get really excited about Estelle. Unlike, say, M.I.A., there's no sense of danger or whatwillshedonext anticipation. On the other, she's solid and consistent, and her songs almost always sound good. She's also capable of making a hit. \"American Boy\", her bouncy, discoflecked Kanye collaboration from 2008 charted at No. 1 in the UK and was pretty much inescapable stateside that summer. I liked Shine, the LP that track came from, a good deal more than my colleague Joshua Love, but it didn't produce any other big singles. On All of Me, Estelle seems keenly aware of this. She's focused more on hitmaking than crafting a cohesive album statement. It's hard to blame her; this is the trend in pop these days. Because of the way people consume music now, a record has more commercial value as a scattered collection of hits than a unified, thematic concept with one or two possible breakout tracks. Look at Beyoncé's allovertheplace but ultimately quite good 4, for example. Whether or not you think this is another sign of the Death of the Album is a whole other article the important thing is that Estelle and her producers work well within these constraints. From Swizz Beatz to Mark Ronson, Shine was all about bigname production, but this album does more with less. Some its best cuts come from unlikely sources: David Banner, Wyclef Jean, and lesserknown guys like Don Cannon. Most tracks here make no bones about aiming straight for the radio. Choruses are airy and open, melodies are sticky and straightforward and tend to lodge in your head with or without your approval. The Banner contribution \"International\" brings Estelle's reggae instincts together with American bass punch, roping in R&B Lotharios Chris Brown and Trey Songz for the hook. It's big and effective. The sunny \"Wonderful Life\" is the stuff of romantic comedy trailers but isn't cloying; \"Back to Love\" sounds like a Coldplay song in the best possible way. These are tracks built for repeat play across multiple formats. Lyrically they aren't bad, either. Estelle can come off restrained at times, but the best material finds her managing love and loss like a responsible adult. \"I thank you for making me a woman,\" she sings to an estranged partner on \"Thank You\", a track patterned after Lauryn Hill's classic \"ExFactor\". This is quintessential Estelle, to talk not about the devastation of heartbreak, but how she grew from it, how living with the pain taught her to be more whole, more normal. \"I'm much clearer now than I've ever been,\" she mentions at another point. In an era of \"Stupid Hoe\" and \"I'ma ruin you, cunt,\" I can certainly understand how some could find these to be boring sentiments. We've been trained to want to be titillated and/or shocked at every turn, and there's no \"wow\" moment attached to peace of mind or feeling stable and realized. Shouldn't we all be so lucky? "}