{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17505/homepage_large.88044c99.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Trust","title":"TRST","text":" When looking at what we know about Trust, the electrogoth duo of Robert Alfons and Austra's Maya Postepski, the comparisons to Crystal Castles aren't just obvious, they beg to be highlighted. Both groups are from Toronto, both are pressaverse manwoman duos, and both draw from nastysounding synthesizers and the 1980's for musical inspiration. Just as Crystal Castles have found themselves at the middle of fairuse controversies, Trust could be accused of copying the copiers themselves: Last year's single on Sacred Bones, \"Bulbform\", reappears on the duo's debut LP, TRST, and its trancey backing melody bears more than a passing resemblance to \"Baptism\", the fivealarm steamroller of a tune featured on Crystal Castles' second selftitled album from 2010. I'm willing to write it off as coincidence not just because Crystal Castles didn't write the ebook when it comes to specific synth patterns. Whereas that band's punkish, neckwhipping performances suggest music designed to be enjoyed in a communal, sweaty setting, Trust's music sounds introverted by comparison. The missing letter in the album title is \"U\", and it's fitting; TRST often sounds like Alfons and Postepski are doing this more for themselves than anyone else, with synth melodies that yoyo into the unknown and atmospherics that change from warm to coruscating with the turn of a phrase. Even the most \"single\"ready material here \"Dressed for Space\", \"Sulk\", \"Chrissy E\" carries a drugsick lurch, somewhat akin to trying to make your way out of a dark club and your own head simultaneously. A fair amount of TRST is cut from the same cloth as the brittle, gloomy melodrama of coldwave, but Alfons and Postepski's music does more than just flirt with analog affectations. Last year, NYC coldwave duo Xeno & Oaklander brought swarming lushness to the genre with Sets & Lights; comparatively, Trust take their own extraordinary machines and slather them in gloss, resulting in the sonic equivalent of what a fashion show might look like if it were put on by depressive pill abusers. This stuff sounds malevolent, but mighty sexy, as Alfons' pinched whine of a voice takes on both characteristics with ease. About that voice: Like so much of TRST, it's not exactly for everyone. At his most accessible, Alfons sounds like a reedier, less faddish version of Interpol's Paul Banks, while elsewhere, he ribbits and warbles in various keys as one colleague has put it, like a goth version of Eeyore. Personally, I quite like Alfons' voice; it has a slithering, grimy quality to it that increases the raunchfactor on particularly dirtysounding tracks like \"Shoom\" and \"Bulbform\", and when he struts his stuff on \"Sulk\" and \"Dressed for Space\", he sounds like the kind of personalityheavy singer indie culture's been hesitant to embrace over the last few years. (He also outperforms Postepski's few vocal takes on TRST, which range from brief, throaty bursts to flatlined vocalizing.) Despite the fact that moody, gothflecked synthpop has been in vogue for the larger part of a decade now, \"unique\" fits TRST like a leather face mask. Despite the fact that Trust's band bio is roughly the length of a couple of Tweets, it doesn't sound like Alfons and Postepski are hiding behind anything; instead, they wear their affectations proudly, exercising a frequent willingness for weirdness. Also, there are just so many bands using synths these days but how many of them are making their synths sound this rich and roomfilling? TRST is not a brief album it stops just short of an hour in length and while the amount of raw material here may be daunting for some, there are plenty of surprising melodic moments to indulge in, from the gorgeous melodic drop that takes place midway through \"Shoom\" to all sixandahalf minutes of \"Sulk\"'s sighing pop majesty. If you can't decide whether to mope or dance to this stuff, how about you do both at the same time with the lights off, please. "}