{"label":" Modular","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17503/homepage_large.ba0fdb84.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Pond","title":"Beard, Wives, Denim","text":" More often than not, most sideprojects and spinoff bands don't spin very far from their respective musical mothership. Take the charmingly shambling Pond, a psychrocking Australian threepiece that shares two members with Tame Impala, the psychrocking Australian fourpiece responsible for 2010's terrific Innerspeaker. That debut put a revisionist spin on guitardriven psychedelia so much so that, unlike other bands mining for retrograded, kaleidoscopic gold, Innerspeaker felt beholden to no specific time or place. So it's with Beard, Wives, Denim that Tame Impala alumni Nick Allbrook and Jay Watson (here with Joseph Ryan) give the same kind of sounds and textures a more worldly setting with Pond. This album may not deviate much from the Tame Impala playbook (and, as sort of a guiding principal, trades the sheer scope of that record in for something more organic), but instead welcomingly recontextualizes that sound while offering it in easily digestible bites. Recorded in a \"ramshackle old farmhouse in Western Australia\" over two weeks back in 2010, Beard, Wives, Denim feels like some very capable musicians getting back to their playitlooseandfast roots. The communal, freewheeling looseness is one of the album's greatest assets, as you feel as if you were a party to the making of the record in Eagle Bay, too. This is obviously not a record meant to transport you to anywhere except the small little universe in which it was created, helpfully buoyed by a genuine sense of good humor, evidenced by the press release's silly accompanying track notes (\"Nick B slept for upwards of thirty hours, becoming the humankoala\") and the odd stitch of audio caught while the tape was still running. \"That was pretty shit, that one,\" a voice notes amid laughter at the end of \"Dig Brother\". Nothing here could be classified as being pretty shit, but at almost an hour there's certainly some trimming that could've been done. \"Tangentheavy\" seems like a more appropriate criticism. But brevity clearly isn't the aim: Beard, Wives, Denim exists and works in very much the same way a high school battle of the bands would, where whichever band can wedge a freaked out, threeminute improv into a perfectly fine two minute pop song will probably lay claim to the prize. Despite the fact that said pop songs are mostly used as vessels, there sure are some pretty sweet ones here. As opener \"Fantastic Explosion of Time\" suggests with its deliciously warped take on the British Invasion, there isn't much mystery to where these songs' influences sprung from. Like Tame Impala, Pond's genre sampling feels authentic under the canopy of an established sound, with odes to swaggering 1970s cockrock (\"Moth Wings\"), twistnshout good vibes (\"Leisure Pony\"), and some relatively bluesy shitkicking western wanderers (\"Elegant Design\"). All would make fine singles, if only it weren't for the jammedout extentions and looselimbed codas that each song eventually falls subject to. Most of the detours are massively fun, like the immersionblendertothedome shred fest that intersects \"Sun and Sea and You\", and the terrific little details tucked into justokay tunes, like the desert mirage guitars on \"Mystery\". Getting a little lost along the way, it would seem, is kind of the point. It may be unfair to compare Pond to Tame Impala too much, but when a band like the former's shadow looms so long, it's difficult not to. And in instances where Pond get a little too comfortable, focusing intently on the kind of horizongazing slowbloomers that Tame Impala manage to render so elegantly, you may find your skipbutton finger itching. More at fault might be Pond themselves, who are clearly very good at nailing tracks with a bestofbothworlds approach, fusing those indulgent chunks of faroutness with fundamentally solid rock'n'roll tunes. And thanks to the communal tack, none of these ideas were given much time to stagnate. So it's hard to complain when the trips in between take a little longer than expected. But if your guy happens to have some of that hightest left, and you've got a little time tucked away, you're going to be just fine. "}