{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17506/homepage_large.6580cc30.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Disappears","title":"Pre Language","text":" When Disappears took shelter in the 15minute long \"Revisiting\" at the end of last year's Guider, it felt like they were on the cusp of pushing their music into an audacious new space. There were certainly plenty of associations that could be drawn between that song and other artists it fed off an unholy amalgam of the Stooges' grit, the blissful repetition of Can, the planetsized riffing of Loop. But there was poise to it, a sense of all those elements running off one another to create a glorious noise, mapped out in a place you could retreat to and get lost in for days at a time. The touring undertaken to promote Guider brought Sonic Youth's Steve Shelley into the Chicagobased band's fold a natural fit for the eternally cyclical guitar lines singer Brian Case and Jonathan Van Herik were obsessing over at the time. Shelley returns on Pre Language, now a fully paidup member of the band, on the most concise account of Disappears' music to date. Instead of acting as a jumpingoff point to something new, \"Revisiting\" has been treated as a dead end, a place where the group's fixation on repetition was shoved out to its natural brink. It's not altogether surprising to find Disappears acting this way. There was a strong shift in style between their 2010 debut, Lux, and Guider, from sweettoothed guitar pop to the nihilistic Detroit 1969 abandon of tracks like \"Halo\". Pre Language is a further modification, with Case clearly keen to show off his Anglophile tendencies by channeling the Fall's Mark E. Smith on a number of songs (\"Replicate\", \"Fear of Darkness\"). Strangely, considering Shelley's involvement, there's also a whiff of 1990s altrock alsorans, the kind of acts that trailed in Sonic Youth's wake. \"All Gone White\" could be a track by longforgotten St. Johnny, one of the many eyebrowraising recipients of a major deal (at DGC) during the storied postgrunge feeding frenzy. That same fate isn't likely to befall Disappears any time soon, but on Pre Language they are producing their most commercial work to date. When it peaks, on the forceful \"Hibernation Sickness\" and through the shivery guitars of \"Brother Joliene\", there's a natural buoyancy at work, with the band's psych impulses, pop flair, and scratchy guitar passages all working in tandem. But too often it slides into unremarkable sludge, making it feel like the blownopen sound and ambition of Guider isn't being capitalized on. \"Minor Patterns\" resembles an inconsequential Dandy Warhols album track when the chorus rolls in, wandering aimlessly in a haze of shoegazery fuzz. Even tracks that lean back into Disappears' trusted framework of repetition don't find the same kind of purpose as before, with \"Love Drug\" trudging aimlessly in place for much of its duration. The fundamental difference between Pre Language and its predecessor is a sense of identity, that ability to turn obvious touchstones insideout to land in a place easily defined as Disappears' own territory. This album feels more like a series of genre exercises, a place in which they occasionally work up a palpable tension, but never enough to make this more than an adequate diversion from the resources they're obviously sourcing. It's possible that \"Revisiting\" was so monolithic in size that it became something from which Disappears needed to make a hasty retreat, fearing such an exercise couldn't be equaled. There would certainly be no point in repeating something like that again. But there's heightened aspiration there, a sense of loosening the band's tightly wound sound to see where it would take them, bringing them to a place Pre Language doesn't arrive at often enough. "}