{"label":" V2 / Cooperative","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17518/homepage_large.7ef6e4c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hari Ashurst","artist":"Alex Winston","title":"King Con","text":" In a pop landscape filled with cartoonish characters and alteregos, the first refreshing thing about New Yorker Alex Winston is her name. Confidence in her own skin is something Winston revels in and turns into her most powerful weapon on her debut record, King Con. Her songs are undeniably poppy and wellproduced but reject the icecream gloss or ambiguity of many other contemporary pop artists. Instead there's a homespun feel here, and the layered production is stuffed with detail and component parts. It's an approach that makes the songs feel driven on piston power rather than Pro Tools. Her voice is full of quirks, too, and more often than not she sounds closer to more alternative singers such as Kate Bush, Joanna Newsom, or even Karen O. Transplanting imperfect, personalityrich influences like this to a set of powerful pop songs is an interesting move and one that mostly pays off on King Con. The sound that opens \"Velvet Elvis\" is a worn, gently warping vinyl stuck in a groove. This nostalgia wash acts as the bedrock for the busier elements that join the scuffle before bursting into a typically big chorus. Winston's narratives here and elsewhere feel just out of reach; they're fantastical but never come across as forced. That's thanks in part to the infectious feeling of excitement she gives off in each her performances. There's no hint of irony on King Con. There is a lot of heart, though, and there's something to be said for that in a realm of music where it's easy to feel manipulated. (That's not to say Winston doesn't pull some strings of her own. The togetherness in songs like \"Medicine\" and \"Host\" echoes the \"usversusthem\" anthemic sway of a band like Arcade Fire.) Despite being over a year old, \"Locomotive\" still feels like a highlight amongst this set, and the song hasn't changed a lot since we wrote about it last February. The edges have been heated up a little, and if anything Winston sounds even looser and more idiosyncratic. The song's feverish momentum is both a high point and vital characteristic of King Con, where each victory feels hard won. The downside to the relentless energy is that the record can get tiring, particularly after the impressive, but frontloaded first half. \"Benny\" is the only restrained moment here; even that feels too brief and comes too late. A large part of King Con's charm is its confidence in direction, but toward the end, the sheer weight of similarly paced songs ends up dragging it down. For the most part, though, King Con's an enjoyable collection, one that presents Winston as an artist with a strong enough personality to overcome that dip and to stand out in a scene where it can be hard to make an impression. "}