{"label":" Mad Decent / Mishka","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17516/homepage_large.cd96076e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"BBU","title":"bell hooks","text":" You could call it poetic justice, but in a way, BBU's breakout hit blew up in their faces. The Chicago hiphop crew gained online renown with 2009's \"Chi Don't Dance\", an insidiously catchy successor to the jukehop hybrid popularized by fellow Windy City rappers Dude N Em's \"Watch My Feet\" a couple of years earlier. Although BBU's name is short for both Bin Laden Blowin' Up and Brown, Black, and Ugly, their song's political charge was easy to overlook amid all the regional references, breakneck flows, and, yes, dancefriendly electronic beats. The rest of their 2010 mixtape Fear of a Clear Channel Planet was more overtly ideological, but also more muddled. In another sense, though, if BBU's strident views on social and economic justice were obscured by the quality of the group's bestknown song, it only shows they're doing something right. Jasson Perez, Richard \"Epic\" Wallace, and Michael \"Illekt\" Milam, BBU's core members, are politically impassioned rappers who clearly understand it's usually better to throw a party than to give a lecture. On new DJ Benzihosted mixtape bell hooks, titled after the pen name of black feminist thinker Gloria Jean Watkins, BBU realize they can have it both ways. They don't have to tone down their fiery rhetoric. In fact, it can be more thrilling to fan the flames. All of which is not to say bell hooks is devoid of more traditional party fare. Despite a title shoutout to an American slam poet, synthblasting rumpshaker \"Beau Sia\" should soon be known on campuses throughout the land as \"that 'what's your major?' song,\" with its goofy comeons, malefemale callandresponse choruses, and streamofconsciousness references (Abbey Road, Lil B, chicken strips). Another production by Chicago DJ Stefan Ponce, \"The Wrong Song\", is just as well suited for a slightly sketchy Friday night. And like Das Racist, who guest here on last year's spare, electrofuzzed \"Please, No Pictures\", BBU know enough to lace their diatribes with sly, knowing humor. Even the skits and interludes manage to bring chuckles that withstand repeat listens. What makes bell hooks such a step up for BBU, though, is the way the righteous fury fuels the celebration, the truth becomes the beauty, with barely a whiff of curmudgeonly condescension. \"Too many conscious rappers can't face facts/ That drug dealers happen to make better raps,\" Perez sneers on \"The Hood\", a surging anthem built over martial, hornemblazoned soul. Later: \"Guess what? I don't think this country is great!\" There's a cathartic release when, on the similarly soulradicalized \"Jumpers\", Perez envisions Sarah Palin's reaction to a black and gunwielding Tea Party rally, Epic reps Black Panthers, and Illekt suggests a lot of rappers just aren't hip to who's really in charge (remember the first time DMX heard of Obama?). On breakbeathappy \"Outlaw Culture\", BBU welcome, refreshingly, both \"sisters in the struggle who fought to be seen as queens\" and \"young queer kids that never fit in your scene.\" But unlike last year's clueless portrayal of Common as a thug, when FOX News comes after these guys, it will be with good reason. And that will be fun, too. bell hooks, then, is an extraordinarily selfassured mixtape, and that extends to BBU's list of producers and guests, which skews decidedly local. The 1970stinged tracks are the best fit for the visceral material, but the eclectic beat selection is impressive and distinctive; \"Kurt De La Rocha\" might not quite live up to its NirvanaRage double reference, but it's a bold flip of the bird toward the very process that sells us birdflipping as somehow rebellious. As for rappers, aside from Das Racist, there's Chicago's own GLC, who underscores BBU's complicated relationship with gangsta rap by acknowledging, on \"The Hood\", his own illgotten youthful earnings. Chicago underground mainstay Mic Terror brings a harder, more violent edge to the Ultramagnetic MCssampling \"Spaghetti\", a track that somehow manages to invoke both Bernie Madoff and Ani DiFranco. \"This is a wakeup call,\" concludes the spokenword opener, a chilling reading of a poem by thenLincoln Park High School junior Malcolm London. Yes, BBU tend to repeat their choruses a few too many times, and no, not every song is to the high standard of the best tracks here. And hell, yes, the mixtape is brought to you by not just Diplo's Mad Decent label, but also a clothing company  though it's telling that it's the same outfit that brought you mixtapes by Das Racist, Main Attrakionz, and Mr. Muthafuckin' eXquire. BBU have established themselves as a rare conscious rap group competing with the drug dealers and swag peddlers on their own willfully provocative terms, and bell hooks is one hell of a comingout party. "}