{"label":" Stones Throw","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17526/homepage_large.36147b62.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Madlib","title":"Medicine Show #13: Black Tape","text":" Looking back on the Herculean undertaking that Madlib went through with the Medicine Show series he started in 2010, it's just as easy to get burned out as it is to admire its scope. He threw every trick in his playbook out there, and even if he got tripped up by the rigors of a superhuman albumamonth pace that took nearly two years to wrap up, the resulting 12part body of work is so intimidating that it's bound to raise the kind of cultist cachet usually reserved for Grateful Dead or Sun Ra bootlegs. It's a project for the diehards the kind of people who share Madlib's rarefied enthusiasm for hiphop as zooted prog laced with acrid weirdo comedy and it's that particular segment of undying dedication that a baker'sdozenth entry feels aimed at. A listener sticks with something like this for so long, they'll feel like they've earned a little extra, even if the phrase \"for fans only\" threatens to come to mind for folks who distractedly tuned out somewhere around #8: Advanced Jazz and are wondering what else could be said with a thirteenth installment. Then again, if the faithful stuck around all the way up to #12: Raw Medicine, then #13: Black Tape might seem a bit superfluous, too. Like the bookend of the original dozen, Black Tape fuses rap a cappellas to Madlib's own hazy, nofi dubofadub aesthetic. And even more so than Raw Medicine, it does so in a way that's intent on showing you all the seams and bumping listeners out of sync, jostling from track to track through a series of hastily edited in medias res jump cuts and snapping ears out of focus. At its best, there are some welltimed abrupt little starts the way Jadakiss' cackle at the beginning of his verse on Ghostface's \"Run\" just jumps out of the firmament early on is a fun jolt but there are enough sudden splices, truncated lines, and inexplicable midverse slow fadeouts that it feels like the actual polar opposite of a mix. What the hell do you call this? An interrupttape? Without those distractions, Black Tape would be a solid listen. The backing tracks are the usual engagingly odd prog/fusion/psych obscuro stuff Madlib keeps pushing out toward the constantly expanding limits of what you can nod your head to. And the interstitial comedyrecord stuff doesn't intrude too heavily, thematically disconnected as it is (though the \"Beverly Hills Blues Festival\" bit he used on Raw Medicine gets an encore here). But the choice of a cappellas, most of which fall into a general 19992004 timeframe, feels undermined by the irreverence. They seem deliberately picked out to evoke a very specific moment for hardcore hiphop, best summarized in the verse from Blaq Poet's 2003 Bside \"A Message from Poet\" where the Screwball vet knits his brow over all the beefforbeef'ssake running through the airwaves (\"…and the whole RocAFella wanna get at JazO!\"). It's a solid selection of pivotal moments (\"Nas Is Like\"; \"Get By\"; \"What Up Gangsta\") and deep cuts (\"Nothin' Lesser\" from the UN, the group that gave us Roc Marciano; Eminem's stillbrilliant 1999 Rawkus oneoff \"Any Man\"). Some of the tracks are done justice through this recontextualization. Draining the intensity from the original beat for \"Run\" for a more suspenseful, loping drone draws out the focused resilience in Jada's voice that makes the lines about TimbsasAirs and asthma worries feel vicariously breathstealing. And lifting Pharoahe Monch out of the bluesgonegfunk of \"Fuck You\" for a fastforward panicattack pseudoraga turns him from wiseass Denzel standin to a flatout diabolical lunatic. Others feel like they got the rug pulled out from under them just when they were going from good to astounding; there's an obscure Redman verse filthy enough to put you off your eggnog that gets decapitated midbar at about the precise moment you know you want to hear more of it. On top of all that, the apparent Bush'sfirstterm flashback aspect is prominent enough to feel like an intended theme, but is undercut by the presence of a couple of remixes of some good but anachronistic recent Strong Arm Steady tracks. Black Tape has the feel of a longshelved project stitched into something with a bit more running time and Frankensteined into an existence that doesn't seem intent on maintaining your attention. But if it means completing one of the most ambitious collections in recent hiphop history, there are worse ways to spend a disjointed hour. "}