{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1622/homepage_large.deef0dde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"The Court & Spark","title":"Dead Diamond River EP","text":" Twang: the plight of any altcountry musician. From Jeff Tweedy's inauspicious beginnings in Uncle Tupelo, to dusty latter day folksters like David Pajo and Will Oldham, the genre has always been haunted by detractors who yield the word like incriminating evidence. If the indie music press shares one thing in common with the rightwing media juggernaut, it's its eager defamation of this innocuous onomatopoetic device. Much like \"liberal\" in today's socalled political journalism, twang has come to mean something dirty among the critical elite. Aside from the obvious imbecility of the idea that any singular element can be inherently bad in music, twang is a relatively harmless quality to vilify. After all, the last thing one could call Ry Cooder's slide guitar meditations is pretentious. In fact, altcountry was founded in part to counter the sort of discreet braggadocio so virulent in underground music. The Court & Spark certainly belong to this category, albeit cast down a somewhat more experimental tributary. Conceived and reared in San Francisco, the band are as indebted to Cooder et al as anyone, and their vast soundscapes evoke untainted portraits of an Ol' West less steeped in folklore than shear, elemental love of life. And yes, their songs twang along with the best of 'em; see their tender \"National Lights\", off 2001's Bless You, one of the exemplary y'allternative songs of the last few years, for proof. But The Court & Spark are so much more than twang, and it only takes a few bars of \"Invercargill\", the opening cut off the group's new EP, Dead Diamond River, for them to reiterate it. Three years removed from their last fulllength effort, the California quintet have had sufficient time to explore, hone, and expand their sound, and if this concise fivesong collection is any indication, their forthcoming Witch Season LP should provide a more nuanced companion to the band's erstwhile work. Of course, given the band's rootsy aesthetic, there are the haggard old tricks dolorous tempos, heartrending vocal deliveries, and plenty of pedal steel (\"Bar the Door, Davy\" even intercepts, verbatim, a riff from The Decemberists' \"Clementine\") but the band are adventurous enough in their retreads to revere a long lineage of forebears while simultaneously taking steps toward an advanced sound. Aforementioned \"Invercargill\" dabbles in mesmeric psychfolk atmospherics before performing an abrupt turnabout, dissolving inwardly, and emerging with a drownedout rag that it rides to an anticlimax. Before long, the amicable \"Lucia\" cozies up to some bucolic acoustic fingering, and The Court & Spark are back to being their humble old selves again. But don't be fooled. The Court & Spark are a very sophisticated animal, and any intimations at simplicity are readily dispelled by the finesse of their arrangements. What saves songs like \"Lucia\" from succumbing to vapidity is a keen sense of dynamics, and a killer knack for arranging familiar instruments. Throughout Dead Diamond River, acoustic guitars, vibraphones, glockenspiels, pedal steels, organs, and analog synths intermingle with harmonious fluidity, resulting in a sum much greater than its parts. You don't need to have seen San Francisco to appreciate their visceral orchestrations; like any successfully evocative folk music, the portraits the band etch are almost better than the real thing for their fictitiously preserved perfection. "}