{"label":" Leaving","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17538/homepage_large.8930f265.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Matthewdavid","title":"Jewelry","text":" \"Third eye, make me shine/ Third eye, make me shine/ Third eye, make me shine,\" thunders a looped, screweddown voice at the tail end of \"Locket (Chi Flip)\", one of over a halfdozen \"flips\" or \"remixes\" on Jewelry, the new beat tape from Los Angeles odd duck Matthewdavid. The voice belongs to Rakim, whose third eye shined like jewelry almost 25 years ago on his and Eric B.'s timeless \"Follow the Leader\", and whose illustrated image graces the cover of Jewelry. It's hard to know why Matthewdavid (real name Matthew McQueen) is so fixated on the the Master, aside from the fact that his style derives from hiphop, much like his mentor Flying Lotus (last year's debut Outmind was released by Flying Lotus' Brainfeeder label; Jewelry is a freebie from McQueen's own Leaving imprint). Then again, McQueen's style also cherrypicks from screw music, jungle, psychedelia, and what feels like a hundred thousand other genres, all jumbled together, sometimes all at once. Odd thing is that Rakim, nothing if not a straightshooter, seems like an odd spirit animal for a guy that, on principle, shoots from the hip, testing the limits of the traditional electronic beatscape. But that third eye illustrated, spoken or merely implied does say something about his approach. Like Flying Lotus, McQueen's music can trigger outofbody reactions, thanks to irreverent sampling, Ritalindeprived drum programming and, more so in McQueen's case, texturizing that forces a quirky club track to sound unknowingly dosed (\"Pendant (Remix for Dynoo)\") or a weightless, spatial dream palette (\"Rolex (RFTW Flip)\") to feel chillingly arid. But unlike FlyLo, who can take these series of seemingly unrelated musical flecks and weave them into an affecting stream of consciousness, the music on Jewelry feels tailormade for the unconscious. Meaning, in short, it might be easy to call bullshit on McQueen, who so often lets the soupy grooves of a screwed sample do most of the heavy lifting, or simply crushes so many things together at once that ambiguity seems to be the only real aim. But at the same time, as with most music that requires effort, paying more than a little attention to Jewelry can feel like a pleasantly tacky chooseyourownadventure puzzle that, with investment, can lead to an engaging listening experience. Pay too much attention, though, and you could land yourself in the sanatorium. \"Gold Rope (Stones Flip)\" is a good example of how, when implemented properly, a wellknown favorite can help orient a listener. Administering some gloppy bass notes, McQueen breaks into the case of wine early and warps the track into a friendly, wobbling drunk. \"Pendant\" manages to achieve a similar sort of appeal by way of acclimation, built around an identifiable lurch, or in the case of \"Medallion (Remix for Princeton)\", some deft trashcan lid smashes. Otherwise, McQueen is left only with details, and while interesting (Parisian producer Onra and pretty much any \"Sonic 2\" level that involved water seem like identifiable points of inspiration), are often not as dynamic as a meatier constructions prove to be. Most of Jewelry seems to come from McQueen's gut as opposed to his heart or his (at least conscious) mind. Obviously, it's a bit of a doubleedged sword. On one hand, a little more structure would probably be able hit those pop pleasure centers he so frequently references and flirts with, but it would likely mean that he'd have to sacrifice some of his loopy id that makes these assemblages unique. It's an intimate balance, but there's no saying that McQueen won't be able to strike it, perhaps even soon. Like Rakim, McQueen can take a phrase that's barely heard and flip it. But with Jewelry, it's still not quite yet a daily word. "}