{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17539/homepage_large.83d805ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Decemberists","title":"We All Raise Our Voices to the Air (Live Songs 4.11-8.11)","text":" For several years now, I've been trying to write off the Decemberists. Back in the early 2000s, during the heyday of McSweeney's and Wes Anderson, the precociously literary folkpop of Castaways and Cutouts sounded fresh and playful, and in 2006 The Crane Wife suggested they had made the transition from Pac NW indie to a major label with all their charms and pretensions intact. But their ambitions got the better of them on The Hazards of Love, a wouldbe progfolk opus that emphasized a heady conceptual framework over strong pop hooks. They overcorrected with last year's followup, The King Is Dead, which once again favored standalone songs but strained for Americana respectability. That trajectory has proven strangely discouraging, as the band's concerns have shifted subtly but constantly across genres. Arriving at a point in their career when most bands have a firm grasp of what works and what doesn't, the Decemberists sound like they're still figuring things out. That keeps them loose and agile, but it means they haven't sounded settled in half a decade or so. This makes We All Raise Our Voices to the Air much more intriguing than most double live albums and of course it would be a double live album because it sets all their heady concepts, genre nods, and oddball experiments side by side. Surprisingly, they all gel fairly well, revealing not much distance between the early SoCal pop of \"Oceanside\", the tongueincheek valedictory of \"I Was Meant for the Stage\", and the dressup roots rock of \"June Hymn\". The setlist is heavy on their early KRS days, when their albums weren't saddled with overarching narratives or genre themes. Of the 20 tracks, 12 predate The Hazards of Love, but even later albums are represented here by judiciously chosen tracks that emphasize sturdy hooks over witty lyrics. There is a nostalgic kick to hearing \"Leslie Anne Levine\" and \"Oceanside\" in this live setting, with Chris Funk adding flourishes of weepy pedal steel, and damned if all three parts of \"The Crane Wife\" (which were separated in the tracklist to the 2006 album) don't sound newly compelling as one 16minute storysong showstopper. It may be the most naturalistic marriage of lyrics and music the Decemberists have yet devised: Colin Meloy may be too often dismissed as a winking actor, but there's an eloquent, even dignified melancholy to his lyrics and melodies, which are bolstered by the band's sensitive accompaniment. Drummer John Moen even comes across as a protagonist, stitching the song together rhythmically and propelling it along its narrative arc. Only the proggy keyboard riffs break the spell. They might as well be in quote marks. We All Raise Our Voices to the Air sounds less like a tour document than a greatest hits, struggling to sum up the band's career and find some new direction forward. A notorious track like \"The Mariner's Revenge Song\" doesn't sound quite as endearingly goofy in 2012 as it may have in the 2000s, as the historical moment for indie rock sea shanties and chimbley sweep ditties is long over. At 12 minutes, the revenge doesn't come swiftly enough, but a live album may be the perfect medium for such a backcatalog novelty, as the roar of applause gives it the heft of a fan favorite. In general, however, the setlist is well calibrated to emphasize Meloy's facility with sweeping pop melodies, his clever rhyme schemes that I'd argue rival Stephin Merritt's, and the band's range and agility in soundtracking his storybook songs. This version of \"Billy Liar\" underscores the marchpop quality of the melody before breaking down into a delirious audience singalong, and the band injects \"The Soldiering Life\" with an appropriate triumphalism that plays to its homoerotic rather than its military themes. The Decemberists do well to approach such serious subjects as war, violence, and corruption through the scrim of narrative the more unlikely the better but whenever they tackle the topical headon, they sound wholly out of their element. This is why \"This Is Why We Fight\" will never carry the outrage and impact of \"Calamity Song\", which arrives at its antiwar subject via David Foster Wallace. That points to the central contradiction of the Decemberists: Their literary proclivities might be unbearable if they weren't having so much fun with them, but too much fun produces some of their most unbearable moments. In that regard, a Decemberists live album is better than a Decemberists live DVD. They have notoriously extended their dramaclub antics to their rockclub setlists, often climbing on each others' shoulders to reenact famous battles in the middle of the audience. It comes across as too precocious, too juvenile not like a youngadult novel but more like a bunch of kids hanging around the school theater long after they've graduated. Such shenanigans were reportedly muted during the King Is Dead tour, but judging from Meloy's banter on \"Dracula's Daughter/O Valencia!\" and \"The Infanta\", that playacting remains very much a part of their set. Still, it's hard to begrudge them their recent success, even if this album suggests that aspects of their schtick played better in cramped clubs than it does at the top of the charts. On these songs they sound like a band that outlived its moment but is working hard to make another for itself. "}