{"label":" Lo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17535/homepage_large.66a55fb4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Chap","title":"We Are Nobody","text":" Last year, North London quintet the Chap released a greatesthits album with the nonetoomodest title of We Are the Best despite the fact that they had been active for only eight years, released but four albums, and have come nowhere close to disturbing the Top 40 charts. For a band that's never met a metapop gesture it didn't relish, the premature bestof felt like the Chap's most extravagantly executed ruse yet, the ultimate comment on selfcongratulatory celebrity culture and instant, internetabbetted historicization. Naturally, the Chap can't resist following one joke with another: After the fauxcanonization of We Are the Best, they come crashing back down to the reality of being an unsung indie band albeit one admired by Britian's most famous science writer with We Are Nobody. But the new album reveals that We Are the Best was more than just an elaborate lark; its true purpose was to signal the closing of the Chap's first chapter. On 2010's transitory Well Done Europe, the Chap began to temper their blitzkrieg pop with more sophisticated, sobering songs that were less about mocking urbanbourgeois mores than examining the stress of keeping up appearances. We Are Nobody marks an even more pronounced break from the Chap's prankster past, to fully immerse itself in feelings of insecurity, isolation, and peerpressured anxiety. Prior to We Are Nobody's release, the Chap made the album's lyrics available for perusal on their website, and if you weren't aware of the source, a facevalue reading of certain lines \"feel like a car crash,\" \"we were killed by this place long ago,\" and \"painkiller please!\" would lead you to believe their authors were destined for psychiatric treatment, if not suicide watch. But the Chap couch this darker subject matter in their sleekest, most elegantly crafted songs to date, wherein the influence of pop's reigning sardonicists, Steely Dan, becomes as much musical as it has always been spiritual. Thanks to their associations with labels such as Lo (in the UK) and Ghostly International (in North America), the Chap are often discussed in terms of electro or synthpop, even though their music is just as reliant on traditional guitar/bass/drums elements as any rock act. But such mechanistic descriptors are understandable given their songs' orderly arrangements, with every purposeful bass fill, keyboard line, maraca shake, and vocal harmony inserted into and removed from the mix with mouseclick precision. And, of course, Johannes von Weizsäcker's unwaveringly anodyne voice and ability to maintain his perfect diction even at breakneck velocities amplifies this robotic quality, as he delivers his grave prognostications on the modern human condition with all the sterilized amiability of a customerservice rep. But in emphasizing these attributes and suppressing their berserker instincts, We Are Nobody feels more anonymous than previous Chap albums; while \"Talk Back\" and the title track see the band assuredly following through on the new pop promise of Cut Copy's Zonoscope, similarly structured and themed songs like \"Curtains\" and \"Running With Me\" tend to blur into the same easylistening groove. But the Chap are nothing if not selfaware of their own machinelike properties: The lategame pickmeup \"Hands Free\" is both We Are Nobody's lone punkrock raveup, and also the song that wilfully draws the greatest attention to the artificiality of recorded performance. It essentially consists of Weizsäcker's foil Berit Immig repeating the same line (\"give me surrender or give me death\") in several different keys, as if toggling the settings on a synthesizer, before locking into the right one and kicking the song into blastoff mode. Thankfully, even on an album as worldweary as this, the Chap don't forget to put the \"oui!\" in ennui. "}