{"label":" Mammoth Cave Recording Co. / Southpaw","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17534/homepage_large.42998c9f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan Minsker","artist":"Ketamines","title":"Spaced Out","text":" Ketamine is an anesthetic used in emergency surgery, and apparently, the stuff is hallucinogenic it creates effects similar to those of PCP. It's probably a safe bet to say Ketamines were thinking about the drug's recreational uses when they picked their name. In addition to their dripping, trippy album cover and the press photo where they painted their skin green, they've given their music a coat of hallucinogenics every song is warbly and reverb heavy. The album is called Spaced Out, after all. But even if it was their intent with the photos, art, and guitar effects, it's too simplistic to say these guys sound druggy. The Calgary band's debut LP sounds more like it was fueled by a sugar high. It's energetic and manic at the beginning, and by the end, it's slower, foreboding, and markedly more subtle. Opener \"Teenage Rebellion Time\", for example, is all primary colors. There's joyful screaming in the background, and it opens with a sunny riff, which is amplified by these cartoonish coconut percussion hits. But the joy's cut with a hint of bile during the chorus, highpitched, manic voices screech, \"it's just teenage rebellion time.\" It's pretty unsettling. By contrast, \"No Grand Design\", which surfaces toward the end of the album, is mournful, surftinged, and entirely instrumental. There's no hint of the opener's mischievous demons. Thankfully, they don't just visit those two poles they find time to explore a middle ground in the album's 25 minutes. \"Ketamine Babies\", surprisingly not a theme song for the band's own fictional Saturday morning cartoon, tries its hand at ominous, but not in the sense that there's any real danger it's the same bouncy sort of menace that's incited by Super Mario World's Bowser level music. It makes sense that these guys are adept at that aesthetic, given the wideeyed enthusiasm of the opener. But not every attempt at incorporating weird elements works in their favor \"Spaced Out\" tries background screaming again and adds something that sounds like steel drums, but the song quickly grates and overstays its welcome. Spaced Out is at its most fun when Ketamines are boldly sloppy. The strongest example is \"Midnight Dawn\", where the opening verse is pretty much entirely slurred and unintelligible, but it's delivered with assertive confidence. They stick the landing with their catchy singalong unison in the chorus, while also pulling out a handful of surprising changeups. The percussion on \"Kill Me Now\" starts out on a continuous drive, but by the chorus, it loosens up into an unexpectedly fluid groove. The best sell for Spaced Out comes from their palpable excitement to be making this music. \"Evil Intentions\" begins with the copiedandpasted opening strains of Steppenwolf's \"Magic Carpet Ride\". It's surprising that the song goes on to impress, since just the hint of that overplayed, infectious melody is a tough act to follow. But they springboard off of it with yet another romping riff, culminating in a satisfied, excited chorus, \"I've got evil intentions.\" They pull it off because behind their eccentric tendencies and hallucinogenic moniker, these guys build solid song structures: verse, chorus, and bridge, all strung together by solid hooks. "}