{"label":" Post Present Medium","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17550/homepage_large.a1eb6663.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan Minsker","artist":"Dunes","title":"Noctiluca","text":" Dunes' origin story doesn't entirely match up with the sound they present on their debut. The band came together after Stephanie Chan, Kate Hall, and Mark Greshowak became expats of recently defunct punk bands (Finally Punk, Mika Miko, and Talbot Tagora respectively). They started the group while they were roommates in an L.A.area house, which means they were making music together in a living room. The disconnect between their origin and Noctiluca is twofold. One: This is a big, ambitious album, and it's hard to imagine it played in any living room. Two: Despite their past allegiances, it'd be irresponsible to tag them as a punk band. They're far from it, actually. Noctiluca is an album teeming with lush, relaxed, jangling atmosphere. Part of the blame for that goes to Pete Lyman, who mastered it. Given the man's credentials, which includes production and mastering on releases by No Age, Abe Vigoda, Male Bonding, and Nite Jewel, it seems feasible that he's at least partially responsible for Noctiluca's expansive nature. But that's not to take credit away from the band, whose echoing guitars and onpoint percussion make the record. Chan's voice definitely achieves a Siouxsie Sioux boldness, but more often, she adapts to the tone of each song, like her hushed urgency on \"Red Gold\". And the harmonies and vocal tinges add to the atmosphere, like the solitary, highpitched \"ooo\" that leads into \"Lonely Palm\". Given that each member of Dunes came from a substantially noisier band (except maybe Talbot Tagora, which had a comparable noise level), it's not as much of a surprise that Chan's vocals are occasionally as loud as the guitar mix. But the sometimes unintelligible vocals are a missed opportunity; the lyrics are a definite highlight. They come out in these beautiful fragments, halfthoughts that are easy to miss and that mold together with the next line. Here's an example from \"Vertical Walk\": \"Softly gliding barefoot/ Follow my friends from the past and present/ Abruptly ends/ Losing the pieces to make everything come into place.\" Their phrasing is like that for the majority of the album, and Chan never lingers on a line for too long. She sings everything casually, almost making each moment an afterthought. Those lines pile up after 40 minutes, so the album unfolds more and more with each careful listen. Some songs, however, don't lend themselves to repeat listens. Stuff like the more repetitive \"Shadow\", despite the band's consistently solid guitar sound, becomes unbearably repetitive after a few plays. And it's a good effort to add some sonic variety to the album, but the introduction of \"Cameron\", which starts with a deep, buzzing sound, feels tackedon for that specific purpose. For the most part, they do a good job of varying the tone of the album by subtly shifting the mood, but they consistently toe the line of being samey. \"Living Comfortably\" and \"Tied Together\" are separated by five tracks, but they're pretty similar in tempo and tone. There's a moment of unfiltered glee about 18 seconds into \"Falling\" that's pushed in the background. The words \"falling in love\" are airily sung behind a glowing, echoing guitar flourish. There are so many details like that throughout Noctiluca little moments that live beneath the album's glowing surface. Those little things, the halfsentences and the onesyllable vocal harmonies, make the big picture worth exploring. It's an album that's welcoming and beautiful; it makes sense that their neighbors were fans. "}