{"label":" Prosthetic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17549/homepage_large.bb7a90d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Primitive Weapons","title":"The Shadow Gallery","text":" If your appetite was whetted by last year's debut single from Brooklyn's Primitive Weapons the Aside of which, \"Politics & Oblivion\", is available for your streaming at the group's Bandcamp the seeming lack of meat on The Shadow Gallery's bones is probably going to initially disappoint. After all, when a group debuts with a single that's able to encapsulate everything great about the everwidening hardcore/metal nexus the grandeur of Isis, the precision of Dillinger Escape Plan, the fury and power of a lot of other folks and inject it with the sort of unavoidable catchiness that's helped bring groups like Torche and Kylesa to wider audiences, one would hope that when an album arrives the trick is turned as often as possible. Instead, at just under 25 minutes, Primitive Weapons' first nonsingle recording barely qualifies as a fulllength. Primitive Weapons opted to play hardtoget, waiting a full year between dropping their bombshell of a single and putting out anything else. And not only is The Shadow Gallery on the short side, it doesn't include anything from that debut single. Given the group's nonWeapons obligations Justin Scurti, for example, moonlights as a music photographer and guitar tech, plays in another band (I Hate Our Freedom), and coowns Greenpoint's metalfriendly Saint Vitus Bar with guitarist Arthur Shepherd (and a nonWeapon) the brevity of the album is understandable. The more likely explanation, though, is that Primitive Weapons know a little of a good thing goes a long way, and that their fullvolume maximumeffort music straddles a delicate line between exhilarating and exhausting. Holding back on the song front might irk fans that want all the Primitive Weapons they can handle, but better to leave them wanting more than to wear out a welcome. Working with producer Dean Baltulonis, this already fast and furious quintet gains an extra bit of strength and speed, which allows it to gleefully beat the listener senseless on every possible front, and in every possible fashion. Midtempo tracks like \"Good Hunting\" and \"Quitters Anthem\" are the primary currency here, but the group's attempt to get down in the sludge, albeit briefly, on \"Big Chief\" and \"Black Funds\", works just as well as the slightly higheroctane moments. It helps that Primitive Weapons are willing to allow for slight deviations in their airtight formula, such as the drumlinestyle intro for \"Oath\", or the nearly nümetallike climax of \"The Death of Boredom\". That creative openness extends to frontman David Castillo; while he works just fine when he's in screamforyourlife mode, Gallery allows him exhibit the same sort of melodic flexibility as Dillinger Escape Plan's Greg Puciato, or metal fusion godfather Mike Patton. These minor flourishes might become fullblown digressions that help make future Primitive Weapons releases a more varied experience. But given that the onenote The Shadow Gallery hits so strong and so true, staying this particular course for a little while longer shouldn't bother anyone. Correction: An earlier version of this review misidentified the producer, Dean Baltulonis, as Alex Newport. "}