{"label":" DD172 / BluRoc / Jets International / Tower Chime","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17547/homepage_large.268a211a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Curren$y","title":"Muscle Car Chronicles","text":" You can just about read the entire list of nonembarrassing attempts by rappers to approach rock music in the time it takes to say \"Reverend Run,\" and Curren$y's recently released Muscle Car Chronicles isn't about to make that list any longer. The album is the New Orleans MC's experiment with rapping over a live funkrock band, and while the result isn't as bad as Lil Wayne's Rebirth (the contemporary gold standard for misguided rap/rock hybrids), it's only barely more pleasurable to listen to. The album is more or less a writeoff it's Curren$y's last release through Damon Dash's BluRoc imprint, and it was recorded even before he got into the studio for his Pilot Talk series but it still stands as the first notable misstep of his rejuvenated career. It's hard to imagine why exactly Curren$y ever thought that Muscle Car Chronicles was a good idea, but it's not impossible to understand where he may have been coming from when he conceived it. His aesthetic is welldefined he is the chillest of chill stoners, with a flow that twists and tangles organically like slowly released weed smoke and it has also proved to be at least somewhat influential (his old pal Wiz Khalifa has ridden it and his own pop instincts to great fame). But you can see where Curren$y would feel the need to shake things up a bit, to momentarily snap himself out of a style that is so perpetually laid back. His intentions may have been good, but the resulting music is so jarringly out of step with what has proven to be a consistently winning formula that you almost wish someone had sued Dame Dash to prevent its release. So, what good can be said about the album? Well, its nine tracks span just over 19 minutes, which is short even by Curren$y's standards. Along with that merciful bit of selfediting, there's also nothing really wrong with his rapping, which is only dragged down by the vehicle he's using to deliver it. But that's about it, as nothing here is replayable after the first listen unless you want to confirm that the album is as bad and misguided as it comes off as at first blush. There are moments where you can squint and almost see where it could have worked (like on \"Not So Much\", which approximates decent barroom blues), but those glimpses are more than overwhelmed by the times where it very clearly doesn't (pick anything else). Maybe the best news is that Curren$y almost certainly had little desire for the public to hear this. He wrapped the recording close to two years ago, and its release date was then pushed back 11 months to the middle of last February. Maybe most telling is that he just so happened to drop a short mixtape with Styles P two weeks after Muscle Car Chronicles walked the plank. That tape, like Curren$y's projects with producers Ski Beatz and the Alchemist, shows how good he is at picking collaborators that help build and slowly expand his aesthetic. Muscle Car Chronicles, on the other hand, quite blatantly and shockingly does not. "}