{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17562/homepage_large.51615316.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Trevor Jackson Presents Metal Dance","text":" Trevor Jackson was ahead of the game when it came to bringing 1980s influences back to dance music. With Metal Dance, he's yet to give up on that fertile (if almost harvestedtoexhaustion) decade, even as 90s nostalgia is well underway. But where Playgroup, and many of Jackson's other mixes and collections, mined the punkgetsloose (or discotoughensup) side of the 80s, here he hammers us with two discs of martial mayhem and creepy crawling. Despite the compilation's unwieldy subtitle, and a few postpunk ringers, this is music from the stiffer, meaner, moodier, fuglier world of industrial and its various offshoots and precursors, from the clubready to the floorclearing. With its sober packaging, and the backing of a cognoscentifriendly label, Metal Dance might convert some people still dismissing some fierce and strange music as disco for deathtrippers and gloomhounds, whether that means the kind of punishing notquitehouse that late industrial did so well or the genrejumbling experiments of the early days that still don't sound like much else. But it'd be consumer fraud to claim that Metal Dance is an embarrassment of forgotten riches. True, there are a fair number of neglected classics here, from the ridiculous metal sleaze of Alien Sex Fiend to the uncomfortably feverish tribal funk of 23 Skidoo. There's also some plain embarrassing stuff that really was probably best forgotten. Jackson's rep as a tastemaker, his seriousness of presentation, and his label's strong track record at this sort of revisionist history compilation all of it lends an air of legitimacy to some wack goth boogie that should have stayed in the crypt. Dully repetitive protoacid tracks that run on far longer than their shrill loops can sustain interest (Neon's \"Voices\"). Electro funk that would have made a fine backing for the Pointer Sisters but feels flat without some kinda song on top (Hard Corps' \"Je Suis Passée\"). \"Scary\" guys who sound less menacing than the Pet Shop Boys, who also had better hooks (Naked Lunch's \"Slipping Again\"). Metal Dance's dark and glittering peaks, on the other hand, are all over the map in terms of sound, approach, and effect, proving that industrial and EBM were far more interesting before things got rulebound and easily marketable. There's the aforementioned Alien Sex Fiend, whose overblown guitars are a serious noisy balm after so much runny keyboard goo. D.A.F. take the same synthpop starting point as much of Metal Dance, only making it bigger, louder, and more dramatic, and thus more thrilling, even if bigger and louder is a cheap (but effective!) route to thrills. The set as at its best when the rhythms are less predictable, the textures more otherworldly, the tracks more stylistically hybridized than locked into a scenepleasing formula. Say, the way 23 Skidoo, Jah Wobble, or 400 Blows merge American funk, various strains of African and Asian ethnic music, and futurist ambiance into thick grooves with an overabundance of ideasperminute that shame most of the competition here. Or how even John Carpenter and Alan Howarth get on the good foot, adding a lowriding funk undercarriage to their usual cinematic synth ominousness, as if War had been contracted to score a scifi exploitation flick. It's hard not to think that Jackson would have made a better case for this music if he'd put together one blinding disc of stomping giants and polyrhythmic oddities, rather than padding things out with so many wannabes and nevercouldbes. To pick just two examples: Gary Numan had thicker and more headwrecking riffs than a good number of the synthpopforallintents acts here, despite the fact that he was working with a similar oldschool toolkit. And Kraftwerk obviously had a more finely tuned sense of wringing melody and drama from the days of \"limited\" technology. Too often when slogging through the valleys of Metal Dance, I wondered why I was listening to these collector curios rather than the canonized (but actually enjoyable) likes of Replicas or Computer World. There's only so much time in the world for Euro dudes shouting or moaning over music that sounds like a Berlin lounge band covering \"Jack & Diane\" on a couple of Casios. "}