{"label":" Island","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17559/homepage_large.6f4743f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Tribes","title":"Baby","text":" \"I wish it was the 60s. I wish we could be happy.\" \"The kids of today should defend themselves against the '70s…look what it did to us.\" \"The '80s almost killed me, let's not recall them quite so fondly.\" Though delivered with various levels of irony, each of those lyrics makes the same point: Retromania is inevitably a practice in revisionist history. For those of us coming of age during this Kennedy administration, I present Baby, the debut album from Camden quartet Tribes. Though \"We Were Children\" is ostensibly meant as a narrative of youthful indiscretion, there's nowhere near enough specificity in Johnny Lloyd's lyrics to hear \"these things happen, we were children in the mid 90s\" as anything other than Baby's mission statement. It essentially recreates a 45minute MTV rock block from 1995 in its most accurate and often unflattering terms. I can't stress the MTV aspect of it enough. Tribes are hardly alone in their studious appreciation of Clintonera guitar rock these days, but unlike Surfer Blood, Male Bonding, or Yuck, they have absolutely no sonic or philosophical ties to indie rock whatsoever. If you're in a generous mood, you might hear the regally draped \"Corner of an English Field\" occupying the same crosssection of glamrock and Britpop that Suede's Dog Man Star did, and \"We Were Children\" pretty much steals the riff and song structure from \"Where Is My Mind?\" wholesale. But due to the arrowstraight performances, slick and sober production, and overeagerness to please, a more accurate assessment would say that we're dealing with thirdgenners like Spacehog or the Toadies. These are two of Baby's maybe five memorable songs, for what it's worth... which for a supposed poprock record is worth everything. There is a good amount of hooky fun to be had when Tribes come off like the band on Baby's album cover scrappy but stylish, in search of the next available good time. In a weird way, the album actually feels like an alternative of some kind in 2012 if you're all but ignoring majorlabel rock: Lloyd's vocals are loud and brash, but in a charming way that's utterly necessary if you're gonna sell lyrics like, \"I scream from California,\" pronounced like, \"ice cream from Californeyeuh.\" Likewise, the liftoff achieved by the choruses on \"We Were Children\" and \"Whenever\" packs a tremendous kick in large part because Tribes harbor no delusions about being a garage band. This is markettested and failproof kegrock with all grunge and grit sanded off so it can leap out of jukebox speakers with the utmost velocity. Unfortunately, the sequencing of Baby takes too many cues from its Buzz Bin forerunners as well. After spending 15 minutes sounding like preordained headliners, Tribes trudge through half an hour of perfunctorily composed and performed verses and choruses that are all too deniable. The contents of Baby can be evaluated by a pretty simple calculus: The more esoteric the song title is, the worse the actual song is. Tribes aren't much for lyrics or book learnin', so the plugdumb femme fatale fantasia \"Sappho\" more or less exists so these guys could prove to themselves they could write a song based on Greek mythology. And the best thing I can say about \"Walking in the Street\" is that, while its introductory roll of concreteslab snares immediately reminds you of \"Two Princes\", a hook of, \"All I wanna do is you,\" reminds you of the casually backhanding misogyny of \"Little Miss Can't Be Wrong\" instead. Baby isn't a very good record, but I'm actually kinda happy bands like Tribes still exist. How many times have we thought fondly of all those guys who missed out on influence or longevity but got a stylish Jake Scott video as a consolation prize?  It's not Tribes' fault the necrophiliac Brit rags are calling these dudes the biggest thing since Viva Brother. But it's nice to know that there are rock bands out there aspiring toward that elusive, careermaking hit single and major labels ready to throw money at 'em. I just hope Baby fulfills its destiny and finds itself comfortably nestled between Three Fish and Tripping Daisy in whatever usedCD stores are left out there. "}