{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17554/homepage_large.809e2aea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Soderberg","artist":"Rimar","title":"Closer EP","text":" BrooklynbywayofColumbus producer Rimar has opened, and sometimes acts as live DJ, for art rapper Cities Aviv. In the last year, he's released a dripping, chipmunk slow jam remix of Mario's \"Let Me Luv U\", and the J. Dillaindebted Higher Ground, a synth funk EP that was reissued on vinyl in the fall. So yeah, he's one of many musicians deftly mining ofthemoment sounds merging chilledout production with radio R&B like Nguzunguzu and simultaneously paying homage to and deconstructing 1990s hiphop like almost every other rap producer out there. But he also possesses a better handle on these sounds than a lot of other guys. On stage with Cities, he doesn't just drop beats; he slices and dices samples live in front of the audience, tastefully piles on effects, and often sends the songs into an explosion of feedback before deftly pulling the next beat out of the noiserap din. His Mario remix was sensitive and confident, put together by a guy who clearly spent a lot of time with the mid2000s hit; Higher Ground, a concept record about falling in love, used brokendown boogieinspired beats and clever samples (the Velvet Underground's \"I'll Be Your Mirror\", Nas [ft. AZ]'s \"Life's a Bitch\") to convey its openhearted message. A sequel to the lovestruck Higher Ground, Closer replaces early80s grooves with the sounds of the late 80s, namely the bedroom atmospherics of quietstorm R&B and the communal throb of Chicago house. The track \"Holding on lay deep: break\" begins by layering porno sounds underneath a winding, stretchedout funk guitar, and later on it transforms into a deep dance cut. Among wordless moans and exhortations, there's a sample from GSide's \"248\", chopped and screwed, with ST from the group declaring, \"Love her til' she old/ And fuck her like she new.\" There's the album's touching thesis, playfully expressed as poignant dirty talk. Closer is a concept album about sex babymaking music for music dorks and a touching celebration of the emotional rewards brought on by serious, dedicated intimacy. Song titles like, \"As time moves into this home\", and \"It's been so long\", as well as movie clips (most notably from Gaspar Noe's Enter the Void), further highlight the love and devotion underneath these songs about fucking. \"I still feel a certain way about you\" loops a soul singer's voice into a series of increasingly excited orgasmic wails.   Rimar's approach to hypnagogic glow also shows ambition. The hiss isn't conveying misremembered nostalgia or sending listeners back to childhood, before student loans and a bummer of an economy. It is turning that glowing buzz into something emotional and expressive: that gutlevel warm feeling that overwhelms you when you're in love. The comfortable sound of being in the moment, not thinking about the past, and imagining a healthy, productive future with someone else. "}