{"label":" Lanark","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17567/homepage_large.27996b46.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Grandy","artist":"New Build","title":"Yesterday Was Lived and Lost","text":" The genius of Hot Chip has always been their ability to alchemize disparate musical elements indie, electro, R&B, even the cadences and slang of hiphop into a unique whole. So maybe it's no surprise that the individual band members' splinter projects over the past couple of years have tended to home in on one sound or another the 2 Bears' big, cuddly house and club pop, About Group's trad blueeyed soul, etc. though not always with thrilling results. New Build is the trio of guitarist/multiinstrumentalist Al Doyle, synth/drum machine man Felix Martin, and studio engineer Tom Hopkins, and despite having neither of Hot Chip's distinctive lead vocalists, they seem to have walked away with the band's winning sense of dancefloor melancholy. More than any spinoff so far, New Build recaptures that rare alchemy of moods, of music that first made Hot Chip so appealing. Much of New Build's charm is that they've dialed things back from the highgloss consistency of Hot Chip's last album, One Life Stand, arriving at something reminiscent of an earlier era. Yesterday Was Lived and Lost is on all fronts a smaller, more intimatesounding record than these players have made in years. It cycles through modes rather than seeking a single unified style, and in leaving its hodgepodge edges visible and the occasional acoustic space unfilled, it reopens a certain sense of room and possibility. The band splits its time between electrofunk, synthpop, house jams, and balladry, all done with a mannered but never stifflimbed style. It's a particularly British sound, one warmly indebted to onetime Hot Chip collaborator Peter Gabriel. This influence is especially felt on lead track \"Medication\", with its wobbly funk bass and indulgently soulful background vocals (courtesy of Annalie Wilson and Planningtorock's Janine Rostron, who appears throughout), as well as on \"Miranda, Be My Guide\", whose vocal updrafts and smoothgliding, sparkling synths are stirred by some subtly muscular drum rolls. Equally affecting, and perhaps more clearly the band's own, are the housepop hybrids \"Behind the Shutter\" and \"Do You Not Feel Loved?\", each of which is propelled by rising synth chords and steadypumping 4/4 kicks, but to opposite ends. The former is all giddy and light, the latter one of those gorgeous saddoattherave numbers that this extended family does so well, as handsintheair as it is heartsunktothefloor. As its muted chords rev into fullon synth buzz, accented by steel drums, Doyle tenderly sings, \"and as the party's shutting down, do you not feel loved?\" and the effect is like a friend checking in on you as your E's wearing off: You want the song not to end but to swell up one more time, even though you know it's time to go home. New Build's arrangements are impressive and uncomplicated throughout, from the faint tinkling cowbells and squirming, fibrillating synths of \"Schism of the Mind\" to \"Mercy\", with its hyperventilating flutelike synths, flurries of steel drum and percussion, and coda of chickenscratch guitar. The album closes with a trio of padding, gently drifting ballads, which, while perhaps not the record's main attraction, are sweetly done and even a hair less ponderous than some of Hot Chip's similar offerings. Where New Build lack is in their turns of phrase; \"Do You Not Feel Loved?\" aside, there's nothing here with quite the emotional punch of a \"Boy From School\" or a \"No Fit State\", and the album's most whimsical turns, \"Medication\" or \"Misery Loves Company\" don't quite measure up to the clever fun of Hot Chip's best lines. It feels like a slight to keep circling around to that comparison, but the truth is that none of Yesterday's songs would sound out of place amongst that band's work. Doyle has neither Alexis Taylor's high falsetto nor Joe Goddard's bass rumble, but his voice, which has provided backing vocals for Hot Chip and LCD Soundsystem, proves a happy medium, supple but understated, well up to the task of singing lead and not without its own personality. Maybe at the next band meeting, the guys should invite Doyle to lend a few songs to the upcoming album. Otherwise, New Build look set to be that rarest of spinoffs: the one that lives up to the original. "}