{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17571/homepage_large.82e02a4e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Listen, Whitey! The Sounds of Black Power 1967-1974","text":" The music of Black Power turned out to be just as revolutionary as the politics. Just as activists conceived of a society that placed fewer limitations on and granted more liberties to AfricanAmericans, contemporary artists associated with the movement worked toward stylistic freedom unconstrained by genre boundaries. And just as there were various permutations of the Black Power message (from militant nationalism to peaceful dissent), there was no one sound, much less one hit, that defined the cause. Instead, the movement espoused not only in jazz and R&B, but also in rock, funk, folk, protorap, even standup comedy. Perhaps the most powerful aspect of Listen, Whitey! The Sound of Black Power 19671974 the album and the book, both representing many years' research by historian Pat Thomas is how they portray a music in flux: Artists such as the Watts Prophets, the Original Last Poets, Shahid Quintet, and Marlena Shaw were only just realizing the potential for crossgenre synthesis and for radical political statement through music. The rhetoric is not buried deeply in the music; in fact, these works wear their politics on the surface. Backed by saxophonist Eddie Harris, singer Gene McDaniels fashions a hook out of \"silent majority,\" the term famously used by Nixon to describe the millions of American who tacitly disagreed with leftwing protestors and who wanted no part of any revolution. What could have been awkward commentary the phrase isn't inherently musical instead becomes an eloquent redefinition of the phrase, equating silence with hypocrisy and cowardice. What good is a majority that stands for nothing and speaks up for no one? Listen, Whitey! depicts a movement in which the very act of making art becomes politicized a form of outreach not unlike the Black Panthers' breakfast program. On a riveting live version of \"Woman of the Ghetto\", Marlena Shaw doesn't simply document innercity life, but does so from the perspective of struggling mothers and neglected children. She peppers the verse with relentless bursts of scatsinging a volley of untranscribable consonants that could be horn charts, heartbeats, or gun blasts. These artists make their cases and explain their stances so exactingly that it's easy to grasp their messages as well as their rejection of previous civil rights strategies. Although it advocates social activism over violent revolt, Shahid Quintet's \"Invitation to Black Power (Parts 1 & 2)\" seems to reject both the passive tactics of the Deep South civil rights movement just a few years easier and its roots in the church. However, the oratory skills of the black Southern preacher inform the public speaking style of Stokely Carmichael, whose \"Free Huey\" is a highlight on the compilation, bolstering his reputation as an intense public presence. \"We have to recognize who the major enemy is,\" he declaims. \"The major enemy is the honky and his institutions of racism.\" Compare that speech to Eldridge Cleaver's \"Tim Leary\", which makes public the Black Panther leaders' falling out with the popular LSD sage. Cleaver's cadence is littered with um's and uh's, offering few glimpses of the magnetic presence who drew likeminded activists into his circle. \"Tim Leary\" is of purely historical value, documenting a footnote in the two men's lives. In general, however, Listen, Whitey! emphasizes lesserknown acts, or at least lesserknown songs by fairly wellknown acts. Thomas is interested in depicting Black Power music at street level rather than playlisting the most popular songs of the era. In the book, he unearths a wealth of material on the understudied and overlooked Motown imprint Black Forum, which released spokenword albums by Bill Cosby and Ossie Davis addressing the Congressional Black Caucus, Langston Hughes reading poetry, and black Vietnam soldiers discussing the realities of warfare with disarming candor (someone please reissue Guess Who's Coming Home). On the album, the standout from Black Forum is Elaine Brown's sparkling gospelpop testament \"Until We're Free\", which communicates dignity and determination in the face of \"absurd\" hostility. If there's a prominent theme on the album, it's the language of race: What do words like \"black,\" \"white,\" and \"power\" even mean? \"White folks in this country dirtied up the word black, not us,\" explains comedian Dick Gregory in an incisive routine that could double as poetry. \"White folks corrupted power, not us. Then one day we come through with two innocent words, 'Black Power,' and everybody go crazy.\" Unfortunately, the track fades out too quickly, leaving Gregory's comment that \"America hides bigotry under conservatism\" unexamined. Gylan Kain, formerly of the Last Poets, rejects any such categorization in his boisterous \"I Ain't Black\": \"I ain't black!\" he insists repeatedly, as the band goes wild behind him. As the song progresses, he changes it up: \"I ain't white!\" The implication is clear: he pushes against the racial distinctions but embraces the insults attached to them \"bastard\" and \"motherfucker\" in much the same way that other artists and activists took on the pejorative \"nigger\" to forcefully distinguish themselves from the white society they saw as fundamentally corrupt. Perhaps the most curious inclusions on Listen, Whitey! are a trio of tunes by white artists, who alternately support the Black Power cause and reject their own race. British folkie Roy Harper enumerates white offenses in \"I Hate the White Man\", a meandering indictment of imperialism, greed, genocide, and endemic cruelty. On the other hand, \"Angela\" by John Lennon and Yoko Ono sounds well intended but incredibly naïve, which is perhaps the downside to their notorious plan to rush that album to stores. Similarly, Bob Dylan released \"George Jackson\" just two weeks after the death of the activist during a prison riot, but he manages to capture the tragedy while it's still fresh, somehow preserving those raw emotions in amber. More crucially, he doesn't let his sympathy get him off the hook: \"Sometimes I think this whole world/ Is one big prison yard/ Some of us are prisoners/ The rest of us are guards.\" Dylan may side with the prisoners, but he understands that he remains apart from them both prisoner and prison guard, an uncomfortable duality that he navigates with more sensitivity and nuance than Harper or Lennon. It's fitting then that Listen, Whitey! ends with the hard onetwo punch of the Original Last Poet's frenzied \"Die Nigga\" and Amiri Baraka's fiery \"Who Will Survive America\". The two songs couldn't sound more different, but they are intense, jarring, even fearless as they ponder the true cost of revolution. Fortyeight years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act and 46 years after the founding of the Black Panther party, it's difficult to reconstruct the original context for these songs or to understand how startling it would have been to hear artists discuss race and revolution so frankly. But by focusing on the range of music inspired by this movement, Listen, Whitey! allows so much of the confusion, outrage, anger, emotion, humor, and even optimism of this music to resonate anew. "}