{"label":" Alternative Tentacles","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17564/homepage_large.3b5b4fc8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hank Shteamer","artist":"Unsane","title":"Wreck","text":" As anyone who's hung out there in the past decade could tell you, New York's Lower East Side is no longer a scary place. It's the kind of hood where you can chow on designer meatballs, drink Pabst in a neodive bar, and catch an artfully rustic indie folk band. Sure, some gritty pockets remain, but it wouldn't even come close to ranking on a list of contemporary NYC's bogeyman areas. You wouldn't know any of this from listening to Unsane. In the mind of guitaristfrontman Chris Spencer, who moved to the LES along with his bandmates in the late 1980s, the place remains feral, a cesspool of violence (emotional as well as physical), addiction, and alienation that's straight out of Travis Bickle's dystopia. When Unsane got going, they might have mirrored their environment their first drummer, Charlie Ondras, died of an overdose in 1992 but in 2012, the band's output is a PTSD freeze frame, a protracted rant re: the idea that things simply don't get better. Likewise, Unsane's sound is antievolutionary, almost masochistically so. For the past 20odd years, both in their gruesome album covers (a severed head on the subway tracks, an automobile grille smeared with blood) and their often monosyllabically titled songs, they've explored only shades of grey, with spatterings of red. Which is all a way of saying that Unsane tell us nothing we don't already know on Wreck, their seventh LP (first in five years and a debut on Alternative Tentacles). If you've heard anything the band has issued since 1995's Scattered, Smothered & Covered the record where the current lineup solidified, and arguably the definitive Unsane statement you know what you're getting into: ugly yet starkly coherent noise rock, built from just a few elements the rumble/thud of bassist Dave Curran and drummer Vincent Signorelli, and Spencer's sneering postindustrial blues riffs and trademark distorted yelp. Just in case you were in doubt about who was responsible, there's a dripping, crimsonstained hand on the cover, not to mention a typewriter font that'll whisk you back to the early 90s, Prouststyle. Calling Wreck predictable isn't a value judgment, though. There's still plenty of kick left in Unsane's simple recipe, and if the style doesn't surprise, the sustained conviction does. To my ears, Unsane have never released a lackluster album, Wreck included. The band's early90s NYC cronies like Cop Shoot Cop and Helmet matured rapidly but flamed out by the end of the decade. Unsane, on the other hand, have played the tortoise. They flirted with majorlabeldom (Atlantic coissued 1993's Total Destruction) and landed a few clips on MTV, but mostly, they've just gone about their grisly business, never trying to outsmart or outextreme anyone. Like fellow survivors Melvins (who, in contrast, have evolved with nearly every album), their tourmates on an upcoming U.S. jaunt, they now seem like a scene of one. Wreck isn't Unsane's most intense album 2005's Blood Run hit a harrowing peak that's unlikely to be topped nor is it as immediate as Scattered or as hugesounding as 2007's Visqueen. But much of what's here stands with the band's best work. The biggest takeaway is the monomaniacal genius of Chris Spencer, the way his presence elevates the band from merely aggro to downright poetic. He's at his most effective on \"Decay\", a failedrelationship waltz with a ruesteeped vocal and mournful leads that sound more English folk ballad than cacophonous rock song. The key is that, both as a howler and a player, Spencer sounds as sad as he does pissed. (Compare the Curransung \"Don't\", on which the band registers simply as a swaggery powerrock trio, not the earsplitting accompanists to some epic tragedy.) Even on less distinctive tracks, such as \"Pigeon\" and \"Ghost\", Spencer's eerie guitar melodies brittle textures that float over the band's bottomend wallop add a strong emotional jolt. You know he could write these parts while checking his email, but that doesn't make them any less impressive. The same goes for \"No Chance\", which shows off the rhythm section's brute finesse. The song is a transparent recycling of elements from exemplary Scattered single \"Alleged\" a wailing harmonica, an armorplated riff that's pure posthardcore Sabbath but it's so exquisitely badass that you're happy to grab for the cheese and feel the familiar sting of the Unsane mouse trap. Other tracks (\"Metropolis\", \"Roach\") furnish intensity without real spark, revealing the deceptively narrow gap between a great Unsane song and a passable one. But the band throws two smart latealbum curveballs that offset the unevenness: the dirgey drug lament \"Stuck\", in which Spencer alternates his trusty scream with a strangely composed murmur, and a brilliantly sardonic cover of Flipper's \"Ha Ha Ha\", a song that finds demented comedy in Unsane's beloved \"this city sucks\" sentiment. Mini departures aside, Wreck is simply another strong Unsane album and another wrench thrown in the idea that an enduring band needs an arc. Noise rock has long since outpaced Spencer and co. in terms of blackhole nihilism (the nowdefunct Drunkdriver set a more current benchmark for the subgenre), but Unsane aren't part of that race; like any devoted minimalists, they find strength in limited parameters and take pride in workmanlike production. That's why, even though you already know its moves by heart, Wreck still musters real gravitas. The LES may have been scrubbed clean, but no one's sanitizing Unsane's hermetic urban nightmare anytime soon. "}