{"label":" Planet Mu","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17575/homepage_large.65ebf382.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"The Host","title":"The Host","text":" The Host is the new alias of Irish producer Barry Lynn, who has been toiling under the Boxcutter moniker since the middle of the last decade. Boxcutter offered a variant, but mostly undistinguished take on techno and bass music that nonetheless found fans in labels like Hotflush and Planet Mu (who released four Boxcutter albums and another under Lynn's own name). The Host's signing was announced by Planet Mu label owner Mike Paradinas, somewhat mysteriously, in January. Perhaps the name change its relative anonymity and slight scifi overtones will do Lynn some good. On The Host he abandons beatdriven aggression for short, wafting pieces, visiting upon trends in electronic dance music before drilling down to something more personal and psychedelic. It's clear that Lynn has online activity on the brain. The first three tracks here are named, in order, \"NeoGeocities\", \"Angel Fire\", and \"Internet Archaeology\" (later on: \"Org\", \"Second Life\", \"3am Surfing\"), enough ammo to suggest that the The Host is less Orwell and more Go Daddy. Certainly the album's structure of 12 tracks in just over 42 minutes suggests impermanence and distraction, even if its creation The Host was composed on vintage, analog synth gear was built of sturdier stuff. Lynn isn't interested in nostalgia, though, and much of The Host's first half trades in the type of skittering, sunstroked maximalism popularized by Rustie et al. Lynn avoids a major pratfall of synthtinkerers by not punching us in the face with his masterfully programmed arpeggios. The second half is arguably more interesting, as Lynn indulges himself as a guitarist and bassist, steering toward the swampy, electroacoustic climes of German masters like Ash Ra Tempel and Popul Vuh. The Host's longestbysomemargin track at sevenandahalf minutes, \"Rainy Sequences/Phosphene Patterns\", is reverbsopped psychedelia, an oil puddle of decaying tones and jammy guitars. This is a beguiling mix of instrumentation, and The Host is slippery and elusive even at its most drawnout and patient. Combining these muses \"Summer Solstice at Cape Canaveral\" mashes those Krauty guitar excursions and a sorethumb bass into beefy drum machines proves more troublesome, like the oddsandsods drawer in your desk that loses its potency when organized. These netcentric references, synth sculptures, and snakey guitars are best taken as a jumble. There's no narrative to The Host. It's a series of vignettes and at its best it reminds me of amorphous copy/paste artists like Prefuse 73, musicians who wormed their way into a genre by nibbling at its edges. It suits Lynn, whose work todate as Boxcutter fits bass music's move from heavier, more percussive sounds to linear house and techno too neatly. That there is less to grasp here may be the point entirely. "}