{"label":" Black Truffle","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17580/homepage_large.f67e4732.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Oren Ambarchi | Keiji Haino | Jim O'Rourke","title":"Imikuzushi","text":" The first two albums by the trio of Keiji Haino, Jim O'Rourke, and Oren Ambarchi were a bit mysterious. On 2010's Tima Formosa, the instrumentation was unexpected particularly O'Rourke's piano and the music often got so cloudy and formless it was hard to tell who was playing what. Things became a little clearer when Ambarchi moved to drums and O'Rourke to bass for 2011's In a flash everything comes together as one there is no need for a subject. Still, Haino's array of noisemaking tools made it feel more like a ritual ceremony than a musical performance. Mystery gets blown out the window on Imikuzushi, the third installment of this group's annual live meeting. From the very first second, our heroes' intentions are clear: They came to bang out earfilling powertrio noiserock. And they do that with obliterating abandon on an opener whose rambling title, \"still unable to throw off that teaching a heart left abandoned unable to get inside that empty space nerves freezing that unconcealed sadness…\", seems logical compared to its sonic insanity. The track's blood is boiled by Haino's inhuman guitar, which starts in overdrive and gets progressively more violent. At his peaks, he sounds like Jimi Hendrix if he actually played his flaming guitar instead of just waving at it. It's tempting to say those peaks are the album's high points, since the trio doesn't spend all of Imikuzushi in fifth gear. But even during its most mellow stretches, the music crackles with tension, charged by the possibility that chaos could erupt and it often does. That edgeofoblivion feeling naturally comes from Haino's highwire acts, but it's also due to Ambarchi and O'Rourke's rhythm work, which is both weighty and nimble. The pair alternates between depthcharge beats and clicking, jazzy clips, along the way conjuring metal, psych, and skyshooting stoner rock. Unsurprisingly, they also evoke the bluesy blasts of Haino's legendary avantrock outfit Fushitsusha. But there's something different about this trio's approach to sonic obliteration. Even when everything's clanging and exploding, and Haino's voice is divebombing through all the clamor, the band never sounds rushed or at risk of tripping over itself. Perhaps this move to noiserock actually calmed their nerves and loosened their musical muscles. Whatever the explanation, Imikuzushi feels like the work of artists looking down from a mountain rather than laboring to climb it. That vision reaches furthest on track three, which has another sprawling title: \"invited in practically drawn in by something facing the exit of this hiding place who is it? that went in…\" Here, many sonic parts fit together magically, like levers and pulleys in a Rube Goldberg machine. There's O'Rourke's swaying, twonote bassline as things pick up steam; Ambarchi's monstrous fills when Haino's guitar detonates; and Haino's chilling chants over O'Rourke's rumbling fuzz. The excitement feels endless, but knowing how restless these three can be, this might be the last time they work in this ecstatic mode. Luckily, Imikuzushi captures that moment in a way that sounds timeless. "}