{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17581/homepage_large.7a2cd77d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"s / s / s","title":"Beak & Claw","text":" Unlikely groupings of artists, promising as they seem, rarely yield anything more enduring than a colorful press release. Though it sounds cynical, a roomful of musicians who seem like they have no business being together usually don't, it turns out, and are far more apt to produce a dismaying mess than an unprecedented, illuminating fusion. Over the last five or six years, Sufjan Stevens seems to have suffered a particular weakness for just this sort of collaboration, and his fans, accordingly, have suffered along with him. For whatever reason, one of the earlier decade's most singular voices has grown increasingly fond of hurling himself into colorful masses of people. The BQE project, the Osso String Quartet dalliance, collaborations with everyone from the Clogs to the Castanets to Clare & the Reasons Sufjan is now defined largely as the guy you find on everyone else's records. It might be irrepressible eagerness, or it might be his crazylikeafox way of working beyond the kind of flashpoint moment that can stop a career like a clock, but it's resulted in a breathtakingly erratic run littered with inconsequential oneoffs just like this one. Here's the lineup for s/s/s : Sufjan, the new York composer Son Lux (who keeps one foot in the cozy NYC indie classical scene), and the Anticon rapper Serengeti. You'll notice that all three artists' first initials begin with \"S.\" You may now sigh a little and feel a slight sinking in your chest. The first song, \"Museum Day\", opens with the sound of Sufjan piped through an AutoTuner, a moment that heightens the general dubiousness. The effect is tweaked a little too artlessly, giving it a suspiciously parodic hint that feels about three years past its cultural sellby date. The good news is that the resulting EP is far less dire than all this suggests. Son Lux and Sufjan have created a nice tapestry of mournful synth pads and strings, and it makes a suitable background for those bynow familiar somberchoirboy voices Sufjan deploys to add shivers. Serengeti's loose, conversational storyrapping is the wild card, but he fits into the subdued atmosphere, talking quietly more than he raps. The downcast, emorap slam poetry he works in has a perilously high carnage margin, but he keeps from plummeting off a cliff here, staying understated and writing in reliably small, vivid images: \"Sneaking in my sister's purse/ That was money for the water bill.\" Over an irregular, clomping beat on \"Beyond Any Doubt\", he tells us about being \"Lonely and depressed/ Eating cold fried rice.\" We've all been there. On \"If This Is Real\", Serengeti even invites us to his wedding, where his best man reads a poem: \"A beautiful villanelle, you made everybody's eyes well.\" He tells someone else they are \"vital like Krebs cycle,\" which feels almost ridiculous enough to be something a drunken groom tells a friend. All of this is awkward, obviously, but the openhearted spirit is endearing, and the songs themselves pulse fleetly enough that you aren't really given much of an opportunity to snort. You can feel the breeze on your face from the pages of a 500page novel riffled in front of you. As for Sufjan, apart from a couple flourishes, his presence is about as detectable as a teaspoon of salt in a pot of jambalaya. But these three have managed to come away with this thing with some actual songs, which is, well, something. Whether or not they've produced anything that justifies the time away they could have spent producing something better, more consequential, by themselves? Well, the jury's still out there. "}