{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17576/homepage_large.adc05583.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Lee Ranaldo","title":"Between the Times and the Tides","text":" Pardon the hypothetical results of a theoretical survey, but if you were to ask all the world’s Sonic Youth fans what the most significant event has been in the last year for that bit of indie bedrock, most will likely tell you whine, even that Thurston Moore and Kim Gordon are headed for divorce. As impressive and influential as Sonic Youth have been during the last three decades, their married leaders have become icons of a sort, a manifestation of domestic bliss that inspired creativity, not complacence. Of course, some Sonic Youth adherents took the news poorly, interpreting it as a sign that no relationship is sacred, that no artistic bond is strong enough to stand the pressures of a lifetime. But in spite of the chatter about Gordon, Moore and, concomitantly, the future of their quartet, there's another 2012 Sonic Youth story worth attention: This week, cofounder Lee Ranaldo released Between the Times and the Tides, a 10song set that grew from a batch of acoustic ideas into a fullband production featuring Wilco's Nels Cline, Sonic Youth's Steve Shelley, jazzandjam organist John Medeski, guitarist Alan Licht, and former bandmate Jim O'Rourke. It represents a chance for Ranaldo to nab a headline without having to talk about Gordon and Moore's Facebook relationship status. This isn't Ranaldo’s first solo album. Apart from a busy Sonic Youth schedule, the guitarist's been releasing quiet bits of acoustic music and field recordings or bursts of noise since the late 1980s. He's an active collaborator, too, having worked with an expansive roster that, only to sample, includes harpist Zeena Parkins, Velvet Underground drummer Maureen Tucker, and the singersongwriter Wooden Wand. Still, despite a propensity for abrasion and his instantly identifiable winding guitar patterns, Ranaldo has long seemed the \"quiet\" member of Sonic Youth, often misplaced alongside the band's ostensible power couple. Sure, he's long been Sonic Youth's minority songwriter (between 2000 and 2006, he led only one song per album), but many of Ranaldo's tunes are essential catalogue pieces the longmayyouroar \"Karen Revisited\", the ripping \"Eric's Trip\", the gently majorlabel \"Wish Fulfillment\", the manically lucid \"Skip Tracer\". But he often remains an afterthought, answering interview questions about Moore and Gordon despite releasing the biggest record of his solo career. Between the Times and the Tides likely won’t help: A motley assortment of Sonic Youth nods, acoustic entreaties, and cloying poprockers, Ranaldo's opportunity to step out of the Sonic Youth shadows and into his own proper spotlight is mostly a miss made of mediocrity. Though Ranaldo has helped guide his other band through one of music's great unpredictable repertoires, this outfit sounds both predictable and awkward. Opener \"Waiting on a Dream\" waves the Sonic Youth bait for the old adherents with spiraling melodies and saturated sonics, Medeski's organ taking the place of Moore's guitar grate. \"Angles\" simply cranks the collegerock quotient, with heavyhanded harmonies stacked behind each chorus. \"Shouts\" dates its makers with spokenword samples underneath a web of guitar and kickdrum, while \"Hammer Blows\" turns the obvious trick of building a foreboding electric din beneath a pretty, fingerpicked lament. With the help of Cline, the sixminute, twosection \"Fire Island (Phases)\" takes all the turns Wilco might make to get from the Krautrock march \"Spiders\" to the fluttering pop number \"Impossible Germany\". And depending on your perspective, Ranaldo's lyrics are either symptomatic or responsible for the album's banality. A published poet with an interest in abstract structures, he writes as if thumbing through a rhyming dictionary or composing a children's album alongside Mr. Rogers. \"Was it something I said…/ Was I wrong in the head?\" he sings at one point. Or, more telling and laughable: \"I don't wanna throw a wrench in the works/ But this whole town is full of jerks.\" This isn't to say that Between is without its moments. Ranaldo, after all, is an accomplished and inventive player, surrounded by a score of them here. There's the dramatic push between Medeski's organ, Cline's guitar and Shelley's drumming during the last half of \"Xtina As I Knew Her\" and the spectral air beneath the starryeyed love number \"Stranded\". Swiveling, urgent guitar harmonies open and later incite \"Lost\", while closer \"Tomorrow Never Comes\" takes shape around a drum machine before climbing into one of the most inspired instrumental breaks of these 48 minutes. But every interesting piece comes countered by multiple banal solos, clumsy transitions, or altogether unfortunate looks. The band treats \"Stranded\" with surprising subtlety and grace, and Ranaldo's voice conveys the perfect amount of vulnerability for such a lovesick tune. As soon as he rhymes works with jerks and phone with home, however, the song turns too silly to be taken seriously. At least \"Off the Wall\" has the energy and concision to break Ranaldo to a new audience alas, an audience he'll find via Toad the Wet Sprocket's Pandora station. It's hard not to pull for Lee Ranaldo, a songwriter, arranger and improviser who's never gotten the due he's deserved as a critical component of a nearcompulsory band. But if Between the Times and the Tides reveals anything important, it's that Ranaldo's songs require the right kind of foils. Here, he's backed by old friends with distinct and familiar styles of their own, not folks who systematically push and pull his good songs until they become great. This is an album badly in need of editing and, above all, a little friction, resistance and rebuilding. I hear there's some acrimony within Sonic Youth lately; maybe they could have helped? "}