{"label":" BluRoc","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17586/homepage_large.daf80211.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Cam'ron / Vado / McKenzie Eddy","title":"Blu Tops EP","text":" What accounts for the existence of this fivesong EP, which burbled up into rap feeds a week or so ago? For Ski Beatz, the NYC stalwart producer who's been granted new life providing beats for Curren$y, it's likely just a way to keep his name surfacing. For Vado and Cam'ron, it's a chance to paddle out from the buzzfree little archipelago they've stranded themselves on. And for McKenzie Eddy, an employee of Dame Dash's BluRoc label who has just begun recording, it's probably just a chance to work with someone. Should you download it and listen to it? The stakes could not be lower it is free, and takes up 20 minutes of your time. And yet, depressingly, the answer is no. There is not a single moment here that suggests any of its participants were ever in the same room, have met each other, or have ever heard the finished product. This is a release for no one. It's a shame. Vado and Cam'ron were a great team when they first found each other. Cam'ron gave the upstart rapper a crucial, earlycareer cosign, and a juicy context the Rebirth of Dipset! to leap out of. But lately, their chemistry is eroding, and the blame is entirely Cam's. Listening to this man rap used to be one of life's great pleasures, but listening to him in 2012 is almost no fun at all. He hasn't switched up his flow in any meaningful way since 2004, to the point that  you can mouth along to these raps on your first time through. He was always a guy who sounded like he was rapping for his own private amusement, but it seems to take a lot less to amuse him these days: \"The hell with drama/ Tell yo mama/ You the first lady/ My Michelle Obama,\" he raps on \"Why, Oh Why\". Vado has a few more flows in his arsenal than Cam'ron does which is to say, two or more. Hearing him rap over the heavylidded lavalamp blobs that Ski provides, you get the distinct sense he could still crawl his way to a wider audience. He does his job, barking like a drill sergeant, but it's wasted work. Ski Beatz drops some of his least distinctive material here which is fair play, as a project like this is where it belongs. McKenzie Eddy sings in a breathy, offbrand imitation of Chrisette Michele, making an impression on no one. The result feels like some sort of dispatch from sneakercommercial purgatory. This is not where Vado belongs. Hearing his galvanizing voice cut through all this glop, you feel for him. Maybe it's time to part ways with this tiredsounding dude who keeps repeating himself. "}