{"label":" Fool's Gold / Reebok Classics","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17588/homepage_large.0d8b3163.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jeff Weiss","artist":"Action Bronson / Party Supplies","title":"Blue Chips","text":" You can't catch Action Bronson crushed out heavenly. He's smoking savage out of Sarasota, twisting joints just like a contortionist. He's not hitting Poughkeepsie crispy chicken, he's devouring roasted bone marrow spread onto lightly toasted rosemary bread drizzled with vinaigrette. He's not lampin' in the throne with Wonder Woman bracelets and King Tut hats. He's swaddled in suede loin cloths and kneelength leather jackets. Meaning: He is not Ghostface Killah. After all, Tony Starks never laid out in the Galapagos, eating tacos, higher than an opera note (that we know). The Ghostface similarity is the arrièrepensée precluding people from joining the Bronsolino bandwagon. But Bronson doesn't ask for his French to be pardoned. He speaks Polish out in London, with a face just like a young John F. Kennedy. Bronson is Homer Simpson staring into the mirror and seeing a chiseled Adonis. But it's not true selfdelusion. 5'7\", 260, gingerbearded, bowling ballbuilt, Bronson has the swaggering confidence of the original overweight lover, Heavy D. He blends that with epicurean inclinations a dirty sex and esoteric food obsession suggestive of Henry Miller scripting episodes of No Reservations for Anthony Bourdain. Sautee the intricate ratatat patterns of Kool G Rap, the stoned perversion of the Beatnuts, and the superfly vivid laser eyeguide specifics of Ghostface and... bon appétit. But when the 27year old of Albanian ancestry uploaded \"Shiraz\" and \"Imported Goods\" to YouTube two years ago, the Flushing native was little more than a Ghostface manqué, a chubby, Knicks Jerseysporting, blunt smoking chef, spitting slang over formalist soul loops and break beats. There was promise but the only thing that made truly set him apart from the crowded field of New York revivalists was his ability to articulate the differences between Canadian bacon and prosciutto. Admittedly, that's not entirely different from what he does now. But at some point over the last six months, Bronson made the leap. He went from promising character whose music always seemed on the brink of making you turn it off in favor of Supreme Clientele, to one of the most hilarious and creative writers in rap. What's weird is that he did this by becoming even more like Ghostface Killah, going so far as to sample \"Apollo Kids\" on \"Tapas\". Rather than mimic Ghostface's trademark vocal exaggerations, Blue Chipsera Bronson mines from the same concepts that made Ghost great: bodega slang, sleazy narratives, childhood flashbacks, and bizarre allusions. Sculptures of Bronson's body are out in Nagano, he smuggles cheese in baby bags, sometimes his only friends are drugs and cannoli. Take \"Hookers at the Point\", a triptych of pimp, ho, and john, interwoven with samples from the 2002 documentary of the same title. There have been a million songs that cover similar terrain, but Bronson boasts his own brand of gonzo humor, subtle pathos, and specificity. He raps from all three perspectives, taking special glee in his absurd portrait of Silk, aka Montel (one \"L\"), a pinkyringed, Hennyswilling pimp, sporting lizardskin boots and green suits, with \"eight bitches look like they straight from the Alaskan blizzard.\" The most harrowing cut might be \"Thug Love Story 2012\", where Bronson spins a tale of \"young love/ But we thought it was eternity/ Raw sex/Never thought about paternity.\" It ends up with diapers being flung and assault and battery charges being beat. Bronson's New York is one of loud arguments keeping entire apartments awake, exotic smells seeping out into hallways, thick accents and thin walls, the tugofwar between assimilation and the preservation of old world roots. It is what a Weegee photograph would look like now. Should you be searching for them, there are flaws to be found on Blue Chips. It's fair to say that Bronson's influences could be synthesized more. The audio fidelity is about what you'd expect it would be when samples were lifted straight off of YouTube after searching stoned for phrases like \"100 Acre Burgundy Carpet\". You could also cavil that the project is too retrominded. Originally conceived as a 1980s throwback (and taking its name from a 1990s Nick Nolte college basketball film), producer Party Supplies rifles through familiar beat breaks and Cyrus Neville, the Flamingos, and Frank Zappa samples. To futurists, it might sound too traditionally New York. Then again, A$AP Rocky got shit for not sounding enough like New York. There is no winning.  Blue Chips works so well because it's as tailormade to Bronson as the leather Jodeci suit he invokes. The album's structured structurelessness plays to Bronson's strengths. It has the loose offthecuff spontaneity that lends to its playful vibe. Bronson fucks up no fewer than three times on \"92411\", but keeps recording. Nor are there any real attempts at hooks. Bronson's goals are minimal and fully realized: Make eminently quotable East Coast rap, and be savagely funny. Think of Bronson as less throwback, more raw Queens charmer, scheming in the tradition of old working class New York: the fasttalking cabbies with the Noo Yawk patois, porno theaters, immigrant waiters, and bizarre latenight publicaccess programs. Blue Chips spits back the striving native son as white Queens rapper, weaned on old WWF and NWA, the Doc Gooden Mets, WuTang, and fistfuls of baklava. Under the influence of fly shit, puffing hibiscus, chilling eating lamb brain. "}