{"label":" De Stijl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17592/homepage_large.bde46847.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Black to Comm","title":"Earth","text":" As the Singaporean artist Ho Tzu Nyen's video Earth traveled around the world, different musicians were enlisted to provide live music for it, from Australia's Oren Ambarchi to Germany's Black to Comm. The latter was a natural fit for a video in which long pans take in a fabulous landscape full of piled corpses and visual references to European painting. In Black to Comm's music, we likewise feel ourselves to be plowing across wastelands of aestheticized violence and apocalyptic beauty. You could call it a match made in hell. After performing his score at screenings in Berlin and Krakow (here's an excerpt), Marc Richter decided to go ahead and make it his seventh fulllength Black to Comm record.  Black to Comm's music is as abstract as an inkblot, and so you can project your favorite influences onto it: 1970s German experimental music, contemporary noise, eccentric outsider art, classic film scores all fair game. Liberated from any one set of formal constraints, Richter uses his many resources to conjure delicate effects of mood and graded shading. Earth has an arc, rising up from desolation through some pastoral and sacred passages to culminate in the impenetrably shining \"Mirror\". But even the prettiest moments are shot through with uneasy threads. I can't verify Richter's claim that he composed it on heavy painkillers while recovering from a broken leg, but it's credible. It's also consoling that there should be an explanation for this: sinister loopbased music that, somehow, never repeats itself. Like Alphabet 1968, Black to Comm's prior LP, Earth is a mix of manipulated loops from old shellac records, errant acoustic instrumentation, and electronic disturbances. (His consistent fondness for altered records marks him as an evil twin of Philip Jeck or Leyland Kirby.) Unlike Alphabet, it features ghoulish arias courtesy of Vindicatrix. Whenever Vindicatrix shows up, it sounds like someone punched David Sylvian in the stomach, then made him sing in a room full of windchimes and possessed phonographs. Undoubtedly an acquired taste (he does grow on you), the vocalist is most poignant when he holds back: trying to catch his breath, with understated pathos, on \"Stickstoff II\", or murmuring \"awake\" with hypnotic insistence on the gloomy chorale \"Thrones\". Vibrating in tune with the record's derangement, he sings like someone who has suffered from an irreparable internal cavein. As with Laura Dern's constantly stricken expression in David Lynch movies, this seems like an appropriate response to finding oneself singing on a Black to Comm record. If you generally listen to music on the factory speakers in your car or computer, you can basically forget about this release. All you'll hear is distant rustling and moaning; some indifferently fretted acoustic guitar. The music is for close listening or for nothing. This is especially true of \"Stickstoff II\", a complex of infinitesimal flutters and whirrs. But every broad narrative unit on the record breaks down, at the atomic level, to an accumulation of tiny, chaotic events. In this way, life on Earth is an uncanny yet accurate reflection of life on this planet. "}