{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17583/homepage_large.ccaba1c9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"Mirrorring","title":"Foreign Body","text":" At what point do we distinguish sound art from song? Liz Harris and Jesy Fortino are musicians based in the Pacific Northwest who have each spent several records exploring this question. Harris, who records as Grouper, crafts ambient works that range from muted, narcotic guitar pop to more characteristic drone pieces, all haunted by vocals that can be alien or angelic. Fortino, meanwhile, leans toward blackhearted folk in her work as Tiny Vipers. Using primitively spare guitar lines, she etches fullbodied and evocative works characterized by silence and space, with expressive lyrics that convey feelings of isolation through form more than storytelling. In at least one interview, Fortino referenced the mystic, orchestral minimalism of Arvo Pärt's sacred music, and recently in conversation with Pitchfork, she noted her and Harris' shared roots in metal. Fortino almost certainly alluded to the similarly brutal Swans on her 2009 track \"Young God\". These are imaginative parameters, and both artists have been individually responsible for albums that provide consistently therapeutic listening. Foreign Body is the pair's collaborative record as Mirrorring, and it effectively and purposefully combines their respective sounds. Tension is the driving force for these six compositions, as each builds from electroacoustic whispers to landscapes that range from paralyzing paranoia to a glistening sense of subliminal bliss. The recordings feel realized and complete, but never too dense, and while listening I feel placed distinctly between either musician, their sounds tearing from various angles.  Some of these works would make sense on a Grouper or Tiny Vipers record, marked foremost by the aesthetic of the track's leader, but the foil Fortino and Harris offer one another is crucial. The trudging opener \"Fell Sound\" is reminiscent of Grouper's album Way Their Crept with an eerie and overwhelming sense of drowning in lightness. But Fortino's subtle, suspended guitar work begins to pull from an elevated place, and you never fall too far. The sheer immensity of Grouper's drones on \"Fell Sound\" makes Fortino's following \"Silent From Above\" all the more stark, crushing, and cathartic. It's the record's most tuneful and formally structured song, and an immediate highlight, led by acoustic fingerpicks that sound nearly identical to \"Development\" from her 2009 album Life on Earth. And \"Drowning the Call\" is a nuanced and idyllic dronescape centered on the sunlit side of Grouper's aesthetic, but radiating with a new, moodaltering clarity that brings to mind a kind of healing, utopian dream state.  The most affecting tracks on Foreign Body achieve something transcendent, making use of the full range of the duo's instrumental toolbox as well as Fortino's deep warble. At the center is \"Cliffs\", a nearly 10minute track that begins with slow and artfully minimal guitar notes, reminiscent of a downcast and zonedout remake of Nick Drake's \"Horn\". Acoustic notes crawl and unfurl in a hypnotic, circular fashion, using broad strokes to foreshadow an undercurrent of anxiousness. Listening, for me, evokes the feeling of climbing a cliff and facing the absolute terror of an ocean, past its mist and dew. The piece eventually towers over into a collage of dissolving weather sounds, with Fortino's earthy guitar tones and Harris' oceanic electronics expanding a pronounced, pastoral picture. It's an experiment in the emotional possibilities of space, and seemingly designed to make you feel very small.  \"Mine\" grows to a similar climax, but instead ends with the noisiest and most expansive drone sounds on the record, with skullmining capabilities that leave a rattling sense of dread. Whether intentional or not, the song's title reminds me that Foreign Body, and indeed the whole of both artists' catalogs, makes the most sense when heard in solitude. I have gravitated toward albums by Harris and Fortino during the most difficult points of my life, and, despite its highfloating potential to incite escapism, I imagine Foreign Body will likewise help bring many a lost listener down to earth. \"Meditative\" is one of a handful of the most common terms pinned to Grouper and Tiny Vipers, but with these tracks it's worth pausing to consider why it is so important to engage with things like repetition and drone. The sound of \"Drowning the Call\", and much of Foreign Body, offers a sense of hyperpresence; of being acutely aware of yourself as the music's recipient, which counters our disengaged, technodistracted worlds of Elsewhere and offers a moment of mindfulness. There is a tendency among music critics to create substories with records and impose narratives. We might identify with a hardcore punk group this year because we are a restless generation, or with a work of hyperactive pop because the internet has made us incapable of concentrating, and so on. But sometimes we take a record for what it is: a resistant piece of art, existing as a singular entity. In a world that is newly full of \"content\" at every turn, it can be refreshing to find an uncompromising record that exists so honestly on its own. "}