{"label":" Late Night Tales","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17591/homepage_large.a422aeea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"Belle And Sebastian","title":"LateNightTales, Vol. 2","text":" Belle and Sebastian sometimes seem like the kind of people who like to have friends over and play them one record after another for hours \"but have you heard this Lovin' Spoonful track? Oh, you have to! Here, I'll put it next in the queue after the Stan Tracey Quartet's King Crimson cover and okay, hold on, let me fade out this Pop Group instrumental, you kind of get the idea...\" They also seem like the rare people from whom that behavior would not result in silent pleas to just put on an Al Green album or something and leave the stereo alone, because their ability to dig up amazing, notoverexposed music defies the DunningKruger Effect by being as good as they think it is. Hence, Stuart Murdoch and company have been invited back for their second volume of the LateNightTales series of \"here's a bunch of not particularly dancey stuff a wellknown artist likes, plus a new cover by that artist, and a spokenword piece\" compilations. (Their first came out in 2006.) As expected, their taste is superb; as you might also expect, they lean heavily on the 1960s and early 1970s, with occasional glimmers of modernity (Gold Panda, Toro y Moi) and the odd touch of naffandobvious just for contrast. (Blood, Sweat & Tears' \"Spinning Wheel\"? Srsly?) Not a lot of this set sounds much like their own music, although the Wonder Who?'s poppsychedelic \"Watch the Flowers Grow\" sounds like the Belle and Sebastian rhythm section might have taken a few cues from it. They also include two tracks by Broadcast, the muchmissed Birmingham group whose aesthetic was all about stereophilic retrofuturism, and whose admirers are probably almost entirely a subset of Belle and Sebastian's own. A handful of the songs they've picked effectively declare \"but have you heard it like this?\": not Margo Guryan's litepsych delite \"Sunday Morning\" but Marie Laforêt's French cover of it, not the Cure's skeletal synthpop heavy breather \"Close to Me\" but the repurposing of its plinky hook in Ce'cile's dancehall track \"Rude Bwoy Thug Life\", not the regular version of Pete Shelley's \"North American Scum\"prefiguring \"Homosapien\" but some kind of dub mix. (They're the kind of record geeks for whom the lessheard version is obviously better.) And they turn out to be fond of very precise music by hairy hippies the folkprog band Trees' \"Streets of Derry\", from 1970's On the Shore, sounds especially brawny in this context. Still, this mix is trying a little too hard to be a mix, rather than letting tracks play out their few attempts at crossfades leave a lot to be desired, and the echochamber effect that curtails several tracks isn't so hot either. And one of the album's few weak links is Belle and Sebastian's own pallid, ambling cover of the Primitives' \"Crash\": without the original's brakesareout momentum, there's not much left of it. (If it had come out back in the days when B&S were flicking out a new single every few months, it wouldn't have been disappointing, but a year and a half after Write About Love, that's it?) LateNightTales' requisite spokenword closer doubles as a commentary on the project itself: criticturnedlabelguyturnedcritic Paul Morley's piece \"Lost for Words, Part 3\", whose centerpiece is a string of his favorite sentences by other writers. They're fun to hear, they're intriguing as a key to an aesthetic, and they're no substitute for the anthologist's own work. "}