{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17593/homepage_large.39342beb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Retribution Gospel Choir","title":"The Revolution EP","text":" Looking for a good time? Alan Sparhawk's probably not your man. The longtime coleader of the gloomily obstinate Low and the furrowed brow behind the fretworkheavy Retribution Gospel Choir, is not (on record, anyway) known for his sunny disposition. So when \"Maharisha\", the third of four tracks on Retribution Gospel Choir's brief, somewhat bizarre Revolution EP (available for free download right here), clanks in on the back of a Def Leppardworthy cowbell, one can't help but wonder if Sparhawk's maybe, finally, having a laugh. If he was, could we even tell?The answer to that one, like the Revolution EP itself, is more than a bit muddled. Big StarbywayofGBV opener \"Feel It, Superior\" feels, at first, almost shockingly bright, its sleek, nighonglossy production lending the guitars a kind of metallic glint that feels miles removed from the smokeriddled slowburn Sparhawk's long favored in Low. This sheen's not entirely new to Retribution, although the intensity is: \"White Wolf\" and (especially) \"Workin' Hard,\" from 2010's great 2, hinted at the pared down, radioreadyfor1985 sonics and what Sparhawk's called \"Huey Lewis harmonies,\" all of which make strong showings on Revolution. But Sparhawk, a guy who's spent most of his career making records for the middle of the night, has rarely sustained a disposition as breezy as the one he affects on Revolution's first three songs; it's barely eight minutes, but it's something. The pleasantly propulsive \"Superior\" uses up its tricks in its first minute or so, but it slides easily into the chunky chords and slightly silly falsetto of the Rick Springfieldian \"The Stone (Revolution!).\" Everything about \"The Stone\" feels appropriately corporock; heck, even its incitement of revolution comes off less like the capitalR stuff and more like the nickname you'd give a radio station. There are references to things like turnin' up volumes and crankin' trebles throughout Revolution, with the emphasis very much placed on those apostrophes. The Loverboylite\"Maharisha\" takes 2's \"Workin'\" and sets its sights squarely on the weekend; get past its veneer of Eastern spirituality, and underneath, it's pure cheese, the kind of thing you'd expect to hear rattling around some sweaty concrete bowl circa 1985. In other words, not really one to overthink.Not an easy task, considering the source. Given Low's resolute Lowness, Sparhawk's more than earned the right to branch out, one he's taken continued advantage of in RGC. And, musically anyway, Sparhawk and company's flirtations with powerpop and arenarock manage to feel pretty much like the real thing without accruing their own excesses. Sparhawk's got a surprisingly light touch with this style of songwriting, since they only ever approach allout Hysteria with the production, they manage to completely sidestep what could only be the natural tendency towards parody. But Sparhawk, not our loosest dude, can't quite shake his longstanding stolidity when he steps to the mic here, and vocally, it's a mismatch, an uncharacteristically stiff vocal performance laid atop some of the most easygoing music of his career. His vocals sound almost clipped, every intonation carefully rehearsed. Letting loose with knowing nonsense like \"nobody understands the Maharisha\" requires either a dumber delivery than he gives it or a dumber dude singing it; here, Sparhawk lays it out pretty straight, resulting in a song you'd raise your lighter to were you not otherwise scratching your temple with it.The occasional hint of sleekly produced stadium fodder on 2 was always smartly matched to something dark, stormy, more suited to Sparhawk's strengths; here, it overwhelms, and Sparhawk can't quite brood his way through it without sounding a little lost. Closing duststorm \"I'm a Man,\" perhaps unsurprisingly, that fares best. With its smoldering guitars and defiantly sour mood, it's Sparhawk, cackling from the depths of his comfort zone. It's the one tune here that doesn't feel like it's trying to be something it isn't; he knows what he's saying, and he says it well, whereas elsewhere, he seems tentative, as though he knows what strange waters he's testing here. Sure, that coverbycommittee throwback artwork looks like the real deal, but it's just a JPEG. All the same, you can practically hear Sparhawk's commitment to the arenarock ambitions of \"The Stone\" and \"Maharisha\" wavering from the minute he opens his mouth. The sound, he's got down; if only he could have a little fun with it. "}