{"label":" Prophecy","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17603/homepage_large.78ae5c50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Les Discrets","title":"Ariettes oubliées...","text":" Going on the evidence of the past couple decades' worth of enlightened blasphemy, the French approach to black metal is as indulgent as their storied appreciation for wine, women, and song. Their collective tastes run rich and decadent, and unwittingly encourage the inherent hedonistic tendencies couched within the black leather and dried blood of metal's more extreme varieties. Not content to wallow in the swollen streams of mediocrity that course throughout the global metal consciousness, the Gauls prefer to vacillate between extremes. On one end, there lies darkness; chaos reigns and metallic dogma is crucified before bloodied altars. Lines blur, eardrums bleed. This is where the raw, ugly scrapings of Les Legiones Noire, and the twisted, charred remains of what was once called black metal is scavenged and molded by feral scum and madmen, where Deathspell Omega, Blut Aus Nord, Antaeus, Hell Militia, Glorior Belli, and their violently innovative ilk make their home. On the other, there is light. Here, black metal goes soft, embraces the shimmering sounds of Explosions in the Sky and Loveless, and abandons its roots entirely, save for the odd scrap of tremolo or flurried drum fill. Alcest's summertime blues, Amesoeurs' velvety odes to urban decay, and the sullen grandeur of Les Discrets provide the yin to their countrymen's yang. While France's black legions intimidate, their postblack dreamers captivate, and it's the latter that have been gaining a great deal of traction and recognition amongst seasoned metal fans and genre tourists alike. \"French shoegaze metal\" is apparently a thing (no matter how clumsy the nomenclature) and the handful of visionaries moving within its Grey Circle are to blame. Alcest's Neige is one of them. Fursy Teyssier is another, a fact his latest creation only serves to emphasize. It's inevitable Les Discrets will be hauled out and strung up alongside their brothers in Alcest for inspection, but of the two, Teyssier's crew are the more somber, venturing beyond Neige's fairylands and bluebathed nostalgia trips and into more earthy territory. If Alcest float gently on the springtime breeze, Les Discrets perpetually dwell within the last days of autumn, watching for the coming of winter. Separate, yet equal, they operate within the same sphere, serving as reluctant ringleaders of a \"movement\" that reflects black metal's everchanging attitudes.   Teyssier joins forces in with vocalist Audrey Hadorn and drummer Winterhalter (Amesoeurs, Alcest) in the studio and onstage, but Les Discrets is his baby. He's best known as a prolific (and talented) artist, animator, and director, celebrated for his work with Alcest, Drudkh, Secrets of the Moon, Lantlos, and others, but his pièce de résistance was 2010's Septembre Et Ses Dernières Pensées. Regarded as a cornerstone of the postblack metal movement, Teyssier's initial foray into composition was a wondrous achievement, and scrawled a mighty high water mark towards which his newest opus strains. In a nutshell, Ariettes oubliées... makes a fine attempt, but lacks the lively memorability of its predecessor. That's not to say it's a bad album. It may be a tad uneven (perhaps due to the staggered timing in the songwriting) and bleeds together after a few spins, but is a more than worthy addition to any fan of wistful notquitemetal's collection (especially when its dose of Teyssier's gorgeous artwork is taken into consideration). At its core, Ariettes oubliées... recalls shades of Katatonia's melancholy rock and gossamer interpretation's of Weakling’s dark, hypnotic melodies, infusing each composition with an ethereal amalgamation of postrock, dusky gothpop, and the faintest shadow of black metal. The interplay between the guitars works beautifully, as the warmth of the acoustic and cold steel strings of the electric mesh seamlessly and highlight one another in turn. Melancholia abounds. The aim is to awe, rather than to shock (though anyone who picks up this record expecting a Vlad Tepes clone is in for a big one). Atmosphere is everything. Delicacy and restraint are essentials tools.  Les Discrets' masterful command of the kinder, gentler side of doom and gloom is made more than apparent, from the plaintive opening chords of \"Linceul d'hiver\" and on. \"La Traversée\" takes the long road home, wending its way through a wintery landscape, spurred onwards by a jangly pop melody and jaunty tambourine before the tempo changes, slows, and slips into echoing, near acoustic quiet, and ending on one of the album’s few metallic notes. \"Apres l'Ombre\" is all glinting postrock, overlain with high, crooning vocals, while \"Aux Creux de l'hiver\" is as cold as its namesake (\"At the Heart of Winter\", roughly), and is one of the most dynamic of the tracks on offer, kicking off with an almost folky feel before bleeding into an expansive, textured melodic line that wouldn't feel out of place on one of the more potent Drudkh records. The vocals remain within that whispery, timorous range, sparse and understated. Teyssier tackles the lion's share, while Audrey Halborn's breathy tone adds color and grace; from time to time, she truly shines, and her poetic lyrics add an elegant note to the proceedings. Ariettes oubliées... feels like a willo'thewhisp, a ghostly light leading travelers through the night and fog onto more hallowed ground. Les Discrets seek to illuminate, and with this latest effort, they have at the very least lit a spark. "}