{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17606/homepage_large.58a656c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Erin MacLeod","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Harmony, Melody and Style: Lovers Rock and Rare Groove in the UK 1975-92","text":" The highpitched organ and even higherpitched vocals of the then 14yearold Louisa Mark singing, \"You said she was your cousin, but I found out that she wasn't,\" dot not only the beginning of the anthemic 1975 UK hit \"Caught You in a Lie\", but also the beginning of a truly British style of reggae. Her cover of a New Orleans R&B tune from the 1960s is emblematic of the sweet, soaring feminine sound of what became known as lovers rock. A lighthearted answer to the serious revolutionary vibes of roots reggae, and characterized by the synthesized sounds common to music of the mid 1970s through to the 80s, lovers rock is a perfect mix of rockers reggae, soul, R&B and a touch of disco. Drawing on the music of the U.S., UK, and Jamaica, this music can lean in a number of directions, from the laidback reggae of Caroll Thompson's \"Sing me a Love Song\" to a track like \"All Night Long\", a Mary Jane Girls cover by La Famille that's driven by an R&B beat. Harmony, Melody and Style, a new compilation on Soul Jazz, showcases this music, that of the first generations of British West Indians, many of whose parents had crossed the Atlantic, stepping off the Empire Windrush to look for work in postwar England. Whereas reggae soundtracked the postindependence years in Jamaica, it was lovers rock that provided romantic respite from the racial tensions, riots, and oppression of the 70s and 80s in the UK. The voices of young women like Mark dominated the genre, reflected in this 25track, 2xCD compilation, which contains but five songs voiced by men. Soul Jazz has released a number of excellent collections helping to illustrate narratives in particular types of music by providing valuably comprehensive and illuminating context. Harmony is no exception. There's over 40 pages of liner notes penned by label boss Stuart Baker, complete with interviews and photos that reach back to the 50s, setting the stage and moving through to the mid 80s. Each page illustrates elements of the rise of lovers rock in sound system culture while at the same time discussing the realities of racism in Britain. The notes feature firstperson accounts from producers like second generation British Jamaican Anthony Brightly and legendary UK sound system boss Lloydie Coxsone. They explain their desire to please audiences with the kind of creative and unique selections for which the Jamaican sound system tradition was known, and with which the kind of lovers rock that grew out of Britain was directly associated. Reggae artists had long covered love songs, and from as far back as the 50s, Jamaican figureheads such as rivals Count C and Duke Reid appropriated U.S. R&B into their own material. The liner notes also provide intriguing background information on vocalists Louisa Mark, Janet Kay, and Caroll Thompson, providing insight into how this music was made especially for soundsystem play, with producers seeking out girls with the kind of voices that could capture the experience of young love. This is important, as lovers rock is not \"message music\" in the outward sense. Beyond the empowerment of Kofi's \"Black Pride\", the songs on Soul Jazz's set are distinguished by lyrics of longing, loss, and heartbreak; the smooth vocals and rhythms are perfect for close proximity couples' dancing and synchronized hip sway. In Menelik Shabazz's 2011 documentary The Story of Lover's Rock, the explanation for this eversoslow slow dancing has to do with the shift from the outdoor parties possible in Jamaican climes to the indoor dances and house gatherings necessary in the chilly UK. But in this celebration of human connection there's the palpable message that if solace and unity can be found in the dance, maybe it might also be available in society. Tracks like \"Feel No Way\" by sugarvoiced Janet Kay and the Stylistics' \"Stop Look Listen\" as produced by the Guyaneseborn Mad Professor and performed by Paulette Tajah would be ideal as accompaniment to this type of revolutionary romance. The dulcet tones of Legato on \"I Cares\" are a highlight, as is Clem Bushay's sparkling dub production of the Louisa Mark's cover of the Jackson 5's \"Even Though You're Gone\". However, the collection works best as a whole; listening to it from beginning to end gives more of a sense of how lovers rock is not necessarily about listening to one song, but rather getting into a groove. If viewed as a history of the genre, there are certainly some missing artifacts here for instance, the most successful lovers rock single, Janet Kay's \"Silly Games\", though mentioned in the notes, is not included. Brown Sugar's \"I'm in Love with a Dreadlocks\" is also conspicuously absent, as is any tune from \"Am I the Same Girl\" star Winsome. It's hard to fault the collection for these omissions, as the last line of the notes makes it clear that this is the first of many potential volumes. That being said, perhaps a chronological sequencing might have been helpful, and although it fits the general sound, Wendy Walker's \"We've Got One\" might have been left out given that it dates five years after every other track on the compilation. At a time when today's dancehall is charged as being the provenance of men and misogyny, Soul Jazz's Harmony provides a glimpse into a time when reggae music, in the UK at least, presented the voices of women and narratives of love. This is, in Jamaican parlance, \"big people music\" perhaps teenagers testing out what it's like to be adult or, today, adults trying to recapture the innocence of youth. "}