{"label":" Downtown / Universal Republic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17605/homepage_large.ba512213.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Miike Snow","title":"Happy to You","text":" If you could break up a band's music into its constituent pieces, what would be the most important part? Is it the production, the quality, or inventiveness of the sonics? Or would it be the singing and the presence of the frontman? How about the lyrics and their ability to convey emotion? Since we all hear music differently, this is an impossible question, but it's an interesting exercise when it comes to Miike Snow. Because the Swedish trio, who are known for an electronic take on springy indie pop, are really good at some things and not so great at others. They're lopsided. The first thing to consider when talking about these guys is their studio ability. Each of the three members has ample experience behind the decks, and two of them, Christian Karlsson and Pontus Winnburg, comprise the hitmaking production duo Bloodshy & Avant. They were responsible for Britney Spears' irrefutable \"Toxic\", her nearlyasgood recent single \"How I Roll\", and various cuts for Kelis and Kylie Minogue. Point being, they know how to make stuff sound good. And a lot of the music on Happy To You, their second fulllength, sounds excellent. Beats sparkle, synths crest and unfurl with purpose, horns come in at just exact right moment. The foundation is strong. Problem is, that's only one part of the equation. Miike Snow are missing some important components, the first of which is a compelling singer to elevate or at least match the sonics. Marc Hogan touched on this in his review of the band's debut and I'm bringing it up again because it's still an issue. Singer Andrew Wyatt is by no means a bad vocalist, but he has a thin, reedy presence that's probably better suited for bedside indie fare than pop songs with beats and thrust. It's a mismatch. Add to that a vague lyrical quality (a line like \"You don't have to sell your shirt to do the devil's work\" kind of makes sense but doesn't) and you're left with tracks that feel sort of lifeless, emotionally inert. That's not always the case. There are instances where the Miike Snow formula comes together and you can hear the beginnings of something really good. The best song to my ears is \"God Help This Divorce\", which sounds like the Clientele backed by the Neptunes or an updated Postal Service or MGMT gone really emo. With sharp lyrics like \"Taking my tea in silence, telling strange jokes to myself,\" you don't have to guess whether or not it's about postbreakup loneliness. That sort of unity of vision, though, where the sound matches the idea and the idea matches the delivery, is still rare with this band. Too much of the time, too much is missing. "}