{"label":" Leaf / Hometapes","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17610/homepage_large.72bc5f5d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"AU","title":"Both Lights","text":" Both Lights, Luke Wyland's latest LP as AU, is never the same from one moment to the next. Prismatic, kaleidoscopic, and oversaturated with color, it endlessly resituates itself between towering chamberfolk, cyclonic Marnie Sternstyle spazz, and orchestral psych. Between its frantic opener \"Epic\" and its swooning closer \"Don't Lie Down\", Wyland and drummer Dana Vlatka whip through ostentatious sonic cathedrals at breakneck speed. Wyland may be a dedicated craftsman, but he's an impatient tourguide, and on Both Lights, his insistence of forward motion leaves the listener without much time to settle down and enjoy the view. Wyland's ascendant melodies are always on the verge of overcomplicating themselves; they ripple, soar, then doubleback, accruing new layers on each pass. Though his arrangements hover around the kitchen sink, he manages to balance moments of brassy everythingatonce bombast with swatches of strippedback serenity, travelling from a fullon group shoutalong to a simple voiceandsynth wash in one fell swoop. Though he sometimes struggles at a higher mph, his music tends to be at its best when it's on the move; the trickier the rhythm, it seems, the odder the angles at which he can set off his melodies. Save the toostark ballad \"The Veil\" which all but stops Both Lights in its tracks and the fraught \"Epic\" and \"Why I Must\", Both Lights finds Wyland giving himself plenty of space to expand his sound both upward at outward, making it among the most sumptuoussounding AU records to date. Comparisons to singular acts like Animal Collective and Grizzly Bear have dogged Wyland practically since the start of AU; as those bands have evolved, so, too, has Wyland, as echoes of their most recent work along with roughly half of the other critically acclaimed wing of indie rock of the last halfdecade ring out loudly here. You could call Wyland an expert mimic, but what Both Lights does is trickier than mere idolatry; certain resemblances, like the haunting Ed Droste/Panda Bear hybrid \"Don't Lie Down\", are uncanny, but Wyland usually strikes the right kind of recombinative balance with his contemporaries, draping one over another until it becomes its own sort of crystalline cacophony. The trouble with AU's tracks isn't so much that they sometimes sound like somebody else's; the real issue is that they all too often sound like several somebodies, mostly familiar, all playing at the same damn time. Centerpiece \"Solid Gold\" begins as a clearhearted piano ballad; 45 seconds in, it's made the leap into post\"Brother Sport\" skitter. A minute later, it escalates again, a zigzagging guitar drawing sharp lines through the track. Any one of these would've been a fine idea to explore, expand upon; hopscotching between them, as Wyland does here, is dizzying. Still, it's fairly easy to get good and lost in Both Lights' labyrinthine tangles; it's bringing something back that proves a little tougher. Wyland's a fine enough singer with a voice that sometimes feels as malleable as his instrumentation. But he's neither our greatest enunciator nor our most gripping lyricist, and over time, his vocals have never quite emerged as the eye around which his melodies could swirl. He gets off some lovely harmonies here and a couple oddball lines there, but you could listen to Both Lights a dozen times without much sense of what the guy's trying to say with it; as often as not, he seems content to sweep himself up in the swirl rather than place himself in the center of it. Sometimes it seems constant forward motion is the only thing holding these tracks together, but these little shards of melodies often slip by quick enough to escape your notice. It's not that there aren't plenty of fine ideas swirling around Both Lights; there are, in fact, altogether too many, resulting in something of a headspinning mess, one Wyland's got  to somehow settle out if he's ever going to connect with people the way the music of his peers has. His commitment to constant movement is, oddly enough, both the best and worst thing about him; Both Lights may be plenty gorgeous, but in Wyland's neveridle hands, that beauty proves fleeting. "}