{"label":" Fire","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17618/homepage_large.ba390d57.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Robert Pollard","title":"Mouseman Cloud","text":" What Let's Go Eat the Factory, the January comeback album from lofi godheads Guided by Voices' selfappointed \"classic lineup,\" may have lacked in the blackoutsavant consistency of the band's salad days, it more than made up for in recaptured camaraderie. More than anything, it nailed that feeling of getting a couplethree beers in you, flipping on the fourtrack, and watching the results roll in; in other words, not bad for a bunch of old guys. Mouseman Cloud is the beyondprolific GBV frontman Robert Pollard's first solo LP since Factory, and comparisons between the two are inevitable. Recorded with his longtime foil Todd Tobias and, according to Pollard, with the emphasis on wordplay, not songcraft Mouseman is, tune for tune, nearly Factory's equal. But, like so much of Pollard's recent solo work, the lack of warm bodies in the room throughout Mouseman is practically something you can hear, with its bad decisions lined up right alongside the good ones. Factory was a genuinely weird record, but it's a weirdness it seemed to come by honestly. Pollard seems bound and determined to make Mouseman even weirder, drilling its leftfield, literalismbedamned lyrics directly into your skull. But up against even a standardissue Pollardian ripper like \"Bats Flew Up\" which, being about bats and all, is plenty weird itself these flat, rather forced attempts at oddballery give Mouseman a scattered, selfconscious feel it never quite shakes for more than a couple of minutes at a time. Opener \"Obvious #1\" turns quickly into a real slog, a tumble of chords that finds Pollard muttering, \"it's gotten very obvious… it's too obvious,\" for what seems like an eternity. \"Picnic Drums\" takes a while to get going, but when it does, it really moves; Tobias finds just the right kind of grit on the quick ones here, neatly mimicking the inthered zip of Pollard's mid1990s classics. The cascading percussion that closes out the proggy \"Picnic Drums\" was a risk worth taking, but as with almost all of Pollard's recent solo LPs, the faster stuff tends to trample the moony ballads and the stormier midtempo offerings. Chunky highlight \"Bats Flew Up\" is the kind of song you wish Pollard could write a thousand more of, and lean, muscular rockers like \"I Was Silence\" and \"Aspirin Moon\" come across with the giddy urgency of a first take. Pollard's a got a way with words, no doubt about it, and even the most straightaway Pollard song isn't immune to a little poetic pastiche. But calling so much attention to the words on Mouseman seems like a mistake once you've heard what it is he's saying. After \"Obvious\", Mouseman takes its biggest dip with the midLP onetwo gutpunch of \"Mother's Milk and Magnets\" and \"Continue to Break\". The former repeats its oneline chorus more than a dozen stultifying times in just over three minutes; the latter manages at least as many uninterrupted instances of \"Grandfather blues continues to shoot up the six o'clock news\" in two minutes and change. As Pollardian throwaways, these aren't bad; lined up like this, though, with the spotlight shone directly on them, they take mere seconds to grate, and repeat listens do them no favors. Pollard does get in some appealing nonsense here and there, but then again, he always does. When most Pollard diehards have long since given up on understanding everything that comes out of the man's mouth, that he's emphatically hammering home this nonsense proves doubly frustrating. There's more than a couple of solid rockers and a few quirkladen curiosities bringing up Mouseman's average; the lurching urgency of \"Smacks of Euphoria\" is matched to some truly bizarre lyrics about \"a little shapeshifting shit,\" and the way he sings \"HalfStrained\" is both weirdly fitting and unimpeachably fun. But, for every sign of life, there's a stretch of proforma lateera Pollard rock, littered with garish lyrical leftturns and dressed up in Tobias' unobtrusivecumunimaginative arrangements. The feeling of spontaneity that marked Factory feels rather forced here; by selfconsciously underlining his wackier side instead of just being the natural weirdo he always is, Pollard's essentially throwing off his own balance. A good thought exercise, perhaps, but it makes for kind of a tough listen. He'd be the last to admit it, but all this seems to speak to the overextension that Pollard's probably experiencing right now. Though it's rare to be into April and only have two Pollard albums to show for the year, juggling a touring band with his own peculiar recording schedule hasn't happened in some time, and on the spotty, lyrically strained Mouseman, the cracks are showing. "}