{"label":" True Panther","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17634/homepage_large.e22bdc41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Janka Nabay and the Bubu Gang","title":"An Letah","text":" To call Ahmed Janka Nabay \"the King of Bubu\" is neither PR onesheet parlance nor excitable music critic hyperbole nor the utterings of a delusional, egomaniac of a musician. When Nabay selfproclaims himself \"Bubu King,\" it's truth, in that he was the one to cart that localized folk music form into a major African metropolis and put it not just on the radio, but on national television and before thousands at soldout concert stadiums in his native land. And perhaps more important than that, Nabay has taken bubu before the allimportant hipster demographic in Brooklyn, where they too have crowned him king. But wait, what is bubu? And why hasn't Honest Jon's or Analog Africa or Soundways or Awesome Tapes From Africa already done the archaeological work on reviving it on vinyl? That'd be because without Janka Nabay, the music might have never been heard outside of his village. Bubu originated in the Tenme regions in the north and west of warravaged Sierra Leone, soundtracking the festivities surrounding Ramadan. Originally rendered on whatever was at hand, usually on bamboo or discarded auto exhaust pipes, bubu music followed Nabay when he went to audition for the Sierra Leone equivalent of \"American Idol\" in the major metropolis of Freetown in the mid 1990s. As recounted in Jesse Jarnow's feature for the Village Voice, Nabay had originally prepared a reggae song for his audition, only to have one of the show's producers lament aloud: \"What about your own country's music? Do any of you know how to play something like that?\" Nabay stepped forward to proffer bubu. And with that, the onceayear processional instead soundtracked an electrified, yearlong celebration in his homeland. The decadelong civil war finally led the Sierra Leone superstar to flee, winding up in Baltimore and Philadelphia before Nabay began appearing on stages throughout Bushwick and Williamsburg. Backed by locals like Highlife's Doug Shaw and the band Skeletons, An Letah follows 2010's Bubu King EP with a whiplash 14 minutes of electrified bubu that presage what will no doubt be a watermark year for Nabay. While Freetown, Sierra Leone may be over 3,600 miles from Johannesburg, South Africa, opener \"Eh Mane Ah\" matches the hyperactive drum machine rev of that region's similarly electrified folk music, shangaan (as famously documented by Honest Jon's in the past few years). Janka Nabay does call and response with female backup singers as the Bubu Gang adds pistoning hihats and drums atop the machine and replaces the ringtone melodies that riddle shangaan with some vintage organ whir and deft guitar lines. The frantic handclaps and doubletime percussion of \"Rotin\" might seem to move too fast, yet it somehow still has room for psychedelic guitar flourishes and boisterous vocal trills. \"Ro Lungi\" features some dub effects but it speeds along like highlife on fast forward, casting ecstatic energy far and wide. This year Nabay has taken to the road with Delicate Steve, and David Byrne's Luaka Bop label will release Nabay's first American fulllength this summer. Soon many others will also be hailing the king. "}