{"label":" Mon Amie","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17638/homepage_large.8e0fa4b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Magic Bullets","title":"Much Ado About EP","text":" Magic Bullets are no more. After playing a final gig in their native San Francisco last August, the Mon Amie indie pop fivepiece decided to hang it up after seven years of jangle. Much Ado About, their new EP, will serve as the band's farewell (for now, at least), offering one last rattle through Anglophilic guitar pop for us all to remember them by. Magic Bullets' previous release, their solid, selftitled second effort, found their name being uttered in the same breath as likeminded acts Wild Nothing and the Pains of Being Pure at Heart, another addition to a very gentle C86 revival. Alas, it was not meant to be (though to be honest, aren't we always kind of in the midst of a C86 revival?). So if this is the Bullets' Strangeways Here We Come, the feeling is much more \"Death at One's Elbow\" than \"Last Night I Dreamt That Somebody Loved Me\", for better or worse. Whereas Magic Bullets was multifaceted in its ability to impart some of its thematic lovesickness into the actual music, Much Ado About is a more blatantly sunny affair. So for those who found a melancholy kind of joy in being barely able to scrape themselves off the floor to the tune of \"They Wrote a Song About You\", it should be noted that there is precious little time for that here. The seven (very similar) songs offered up are unguardedly sweet, with their tumbling drums and sprightly guitars. This is, by all accounts, music made for Sunday bike rides, and it's hard to actively dislike in the same way that it's hard to actively dislike watching a threelegged race. So needless to say, if you don't care for Sunday bike rides or threelegged races, stay the hell away from this. But no matter your disposition, do stay for the guitars. Corey Cunningham is still able to take timehonored licks (yes, there's a lot of Johnny Marr tucked into these songs) and make them sound unique and refreshing. If only the remaining Bullets had followed suit: Lead singer Philip Benson seems to go out of his way to avoid the more theatrical phrasings that helped give the material on Magic Bullets some bite, and the rest of the band seems to join in, taking a more direct, colorbynumbers approach. Which isn't to say that it's an unwelcome thing: \"Time and Again\" has a goodnatured vibe that wouldn't feel out of place on a Woodsist comp, where \"What Took You So Long\" adopts an almost Shinsy look and \"Common House Cats\" translates as affable prom pop. But a lot of these songs have a weird jamband quality that deprives them of any real depth or contrast tracks like opener \"Unlearned\" sound as though they were more inspired by Under the Table and Dreaming than anything to come out of dear ol' Blighty in the last 25 years. Much Ado About is an EP that requires the right kind of climate, and in all honesty would probably work best in the context of a mumblecore movie or, perhaps more troublingly, a \"How I Met You Mother\" montage. But it leaves on a real high note with the organaugmented \"If You Touch Her\", which distills the EP's charms while imparting a needed edge. \"If you love her then stay away/ If you touch her there will be hell to pay,\" Benson sings. It's a good note to go out on, even if most of the teethbaring here was the result of a milewide smile that, depending on your mood, would more readily invite a fist than a reciprocal grin. As a final statement, Much Ado About doesn't mean that we'll be missing Magic Bullets as terribly if they had called it quits in 2010, but it also doesn't mean that we won't be wishing them well on their way out. "}