{"label":" E1","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17640/homepage_large.2e5edaaf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"High on Fire","title":"De Vermis Mysteriis","text":" High on Fire's sixth album, De Vermis Mysteriis, or \"The Mysteries of the Worm\", has a complicated conceptual arc attached to it. The title references a fictional magic book created by the writer Robert Bloch and later employed by H.P. Lovecraft in a number of his stories. Then there are the songs themselves. In the words of HoF frontman/guitarist/stonerphilosopher Matt Pike, the album's content is framed by a couple of theoretical questions: \"What if Jesus had a twin who died at birth to give Jesus his life? And then what if the twin became a time traveler right then?\" Listening to this blistering 52minute set, though, you're better off forgetting all of that and just enjoying the group's raw, rollicking return to form. Not that they've ever really fallen off. Rick Rubin pal Greg Fidelman, who worked on Slayer's World Painted Blood and Metallica's infamous Death Magnetic, gave an unwelcome glossy sheen to 2010's Snakes for the Divine: The songs were there, but his approach sucked the air out of them. You come to Pike and co. for their sweaty, thrashing, chippedtooth sludge; on that record, when they tore into a song that rattled the speakers in a live setting, it came off a bit lifeless. De Vermis is also quite different from 2007's excellent Jack Endinoproduced Death Is This Communion: Instead of folding in ragastyle/acousticexperimental twists, you get straightforward albeit mighty, masterfully executed stoner metal. Imagine 2002's Surrounded by Thieves played by a band with another decade's worth of experience under their belts and whisky in their guts. De Vermis was produced by Converge's Kurt Ballou; the results are dirtier, looser, scrappier, warmer, more soulful, more immediately invigorating than on Snakes. He also gets Des Kensel's drums right. On De Vermis, High on Fire sound like a band that's been playing and traveling in a van together for more than a decade not rock stars relegated to different sections of a studio, and there's space here for improvisation and chance. (Bassist Jeff Matz, who became a fulltime player on Death is the Communion, gets an honorary oldtimer medal because he locks in with drummer Kensel like a lifer.) That's the major difference here from what we got a couple of years ago: The band seems to be taking their time and letting things open up and go wherever they may want to go. The first track, \"Serums of Liao\", a hulking, sixminute rager, sets the tone, and unlike the past couple of records, they don't slow things down much for the remaining nine tracks: It's fitting the next track is a Motörhead headlock called \"Bloody Knuckles\". This really is visceral, ecstatically grimy heavy metal, and trying to parse each reference to Lovecraft, Bloch, \"Quantum Leap\", or \"ancient Chinese alchemists\" detracts from the face that something like the shredding \"Fertile Green\" feels like a HoF classic (and, really, is probably, more or less, just about getting high). Things don't let up. There's the sludgy, fuzzedout feedback of the almost sevenminute \"Madness of an Architect\", a standout that hints at slowburn Sunn O))) until Pike breaks the trance at the twominute mark, the group finding a groove that's more bayou than Oakland. It bleeds into \"Samsara\", a latenight, solohappy instrumental that feels like the finale of a leavingitallonthestage set, not anything interstitial: It offers a moment to catch your breath before the battering ram of \"Spiritual Rites\", but doesn't slow down the action or get too cute. Basically, it's something they could pull off live without reaching into a bag of alternate tunings or miscellaneous tricks. You get more of that afterhours feel on the album's best track, \"King of Days\", a dark, sevenminute dose of progressive psychedelia that will have you mentioning Sabbath and, amid its mountainous peaks and solos, Pike's earlier band, doom legends Sleep. Interestingly, High on Fire are making some of the best music of their career just as Sleep's in the midst of a reunion (which began in 2009) and getting set to reissue their 2003 ritualistic, epicasfuck, onesong stoner classic, Dopesmoker. Who knows what all of this means for the profile of either act. High on Fire are still probably too aggro for your casual listeners, and Sleep are too expansive with their wildgreen incantations. But Pike is a legend in underground metal circles, and it's great hearing him strut on De Vermis (for my money, he's the one who should be the one representing \"rock\" at the Grammys). His solos are getting more stopinyourtracks audacious. His songwriting's sharper. The trio, using age and experience to a positive end, feels comfortable, but far from complacent. They've found a way to be ambitious while also elemental, a difficult trick that Sleep pulled off on Holy Mountain and Dopesmoker, and one that High on Fire have nailed here. "}