{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17636/homepage_large.87ba808c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hank Shteamer","artist":"Inverloch","title":"Dusk l Subside","text":" Dusk | Subside places a different demand on its audience than most debuts. Yes, it's a first effort a threesong, 22minute EP by the Melbourne metal band Inverloch but it's also a very conscious sequel: a followup to 1993's Transcendence Into the Peripheral, the eerie, agonized lone fulllength by diSEMBOWELMENT, an arty extremedoom band that featured future Inverloch guitarist Matthew Skarajew and drummer Paul Mazziotta. Fans of the earlier group aren't likely to shed their preconceptions when encountering Inverloch, and it's apparent that the band isn't asking them to. Inverloch began life in 2010 as d.USK. That name (the title of a 1992 diSEMBOWELMENT EP) and the trademark lowercase \"d\" (seen in diSEMBOWELMENT's strangely unmetalish logo) were a tipoff to the cult following that had steadily accrued in the wake of Transcendence: d.USK were a tribute band, plain and simple. \"Keep in mind that d.USK is purely a live realization of the classic diSEMBOWELMENT songs,\" the band's bio stipulated. \"With only two original members, we feel it would be a travesty to pretend to anything else.\" (Given that Renato Gallina, diSEMBOWELMENT's frontman and conceptual mastermind, is absent from Inverloch, they were right to issue a disclaimer.)  Dusk | Subside announces a name change \"Inverloch\" was the title of a piece by Trial of the Bow, a soundtracky side project featuring Skarajew and Gallina and a shift in intent. Skarajew and Mazziotta aren't distancing themselves from diSEMBOWELMENT; Inverloch tour Europe this month, drawing on both their new material and Transcendence Into the Peripheral. At the same time, Dusk finds them beginning to turn their attention toward the future. If the songs on Dusk are new, the sonic palette isn't. For the most part, Inverloch employ the same mixed signals that helped Transcendence achieve its disorienting power: the juxtaposition of death metal's clenchedteeth blastbeats and beastlike growling with doom metal's forlorn trudge, guitars that alternately snarl with distortion or chime like distant bells, and transitional passages of unsettling ambience. As intense as Dusk can be the EP's beefy, organic sound easily tops the reverby murk of Transcendence it's hard to forget that Inverloch are reading from a twodecadeold script. Even today, Transcendence sounds genuinely radical, a sprawling, ugly record that tests your patience as it captivates you with its grotesque moodcraft. In comparison, Dusk registers as wellexecuted comfort food, with hints of innovation to come. The EP's opener, \"Within Frozen Beauty\", serves its icebreaking purpose but suffers from a lack of personality. The track's sudden shift from a gothy, hypnotic vamp to a raging, uptempo firestorm would make it a powerful liveset opener. Yet once the shock of the kickin wears off, you're left with fairly generic modern death metal: a driving, turbulent sound that bands like Immolation perfected in the early aughts. Fortunately, Dusk improves from there. Second track \"The Menin Road\" is as potent a diSEMBOWELMENT homage as you could hope for, a Sisyphean mini epic that conceals a wealth of detail beneath a monolithic deathdoom facade. Mazziotta's drum beat employs chasms of empty space and skillful snare syncopations, lending an unlikely sense of swing to the song's super slomo groove. Meanwhile, Skarajew and Mark Cullen's guitars move from trancedout crunch to a cleantoned melody that sounds like organ accompaniment for a church processional. As Gallina often did on Transcendence, Inverloch vocalist Ben James shows off his command of multiple registers here, building from a guttural bellow to a glassgargling shriek. \"Shadows of the Flame\" serves as a strong closer, sustaining the oozy monotony of \"The Menin Road\" while pointing the way to a fresher sound. Compared to the two preceding tracks, this piece is incredibly eventful, finding Inverloch shifting tempos and juggling riffs with proglike precision. Throughout, Mazziotta catches the ear with odd flourishes chaotic fills on the uptempo sections, bassdrumless blastbeats underneath the guitarists' halftime plod while Skarajew and Cullen contrast straightforward riffage and shoegazey leads. When, after fiveandahalf kinetic minutes, the band settles into a swaggery groove that's more straightforwardly rocking than anything in the diSEMBOWELMENT catalog, it becomes clear that Inverloch are striving for more than just a resurrection of the past.  Overall, Dusk | Subside succeeds in its modest ambitions. The release functions well as a concise \"we're back\" dispatch from Skarajew and Mazziotta, an announcement to the metal underground that they can perform convincingly in an old style, paying tribute to an aesthetic that their former band helped to shape. At the same time, \"Shadows of the Flame\" hints at something new around the corner, the possibility that Inverloch might soon step out from under diSEMBOWELMENT's long, dark shadow. "}