{"label":" Island","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17643/homepage_large.29202709.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"Florence and the Machine","title":"MTV Unplugged","text":" To answer your first question: Yes, they still do these. \"MTV Unplugged\" was once a showcase for pop culture writ impossibly large a place where the entire world could gasp at Gene Simmons' bare face or where Kurt Cobain could introduce over five million record buyers to the Vaselines. But in recent years, the show's institutional power has fizzled, and its most recent installments have featured tepid, obligatorily lowlit performances from aretheyreallythatfamous? acts like 30 Seconds to Mars and Young the Giant. Which is why Florence and the Machine's Unplugged instalment feels so promising. One of the more compelling pop acts to spring up in recent years, it's hard to imagine a voice more equipped to puff new life into the series than that of celestially soulful frontwoman Florence Welch. As on megahits like \"Dog Days Are Over\" and \"Shake It Out\", Welch has displayed a talent for sprawling her demons and heartbreak across canvases bigger than the sky: Every song she's ever sung has been writ large. And occasionally, that's the problem. While her promising 2009 debut, Lungs, had the skittish, genrehopping restlessness of an artist still settling into her sound, the 12 tracks on its followup, Ceremonials, came in only one size: gigantic. Even the ballads beat with earthshaking percussion were gilded with epic, Greek choral background vocals and all other varieties of sonic baubles. Though Welch's voice is undeniably powerful, the songs beneath it all seemed wellcomposed and deeply felt, but their emotional impact was often blunted by producer Paul Epworth's unrelenting maximalism, ramped up from his work on Welch's debut. Which makes them perfect candidates for the classic scaledback, strippeddown approach, right? You'd think so. In quite a few cases, the Unplugged treatment does work wonders. The opening number, \"Only if for a Night\", is more arresting here than it is kicking off Ceremonials, where its haunting power (the song is about being visited in a dream by the ghost of a loved one: typical Florence stuff) was interrupted by a superfluous, glitchy beat. The Unplugged version gives the song muchneeded room to breathe, and with fewer distractions the searing imagery of Welch's lyrics have a chance to float to the surface. \"And the grass was so green against my new clothes,\" she trills, losing herself in the song's second verse, \"And I did cartwheels in your honor dancing on tiptoes/ My own secret ceremonials before the service began/ In the graveyard, doing handstands.\" It's an oddly joyous funeral rite, but it's Welch articulating the feeling she plumbs best deriving light from the deepest darkness and feeling more at home in the world of spirits than the corporeal one. Same goes for \"Breaking Down\". On Ceremonials, that song's edges are padded with stately chamberpop echoes, as though to protect Welch from bruises as she wrestles her demons to the ground. The sparse arrangement of the Unplugged version allows Welch to find deeper and even more unsettling emotion in the song, transforming the chorus from a pop hook to something like a moaning, seasick dirge. Some of the greatest \"MTV Unplugged\" moments have been somewhat unlikely covers (Maxwell doing Kate Bush! Nirvana doing Lead Belly!), and here we get Welch adding to this enduring trope with her take on \"Try a Little Tenderness\". It's a lovely vocal performance (she hits a note early on that will probably prompt someone to book her for an upcoming Whitney tribute), but it also brings into focus the problem with her Unplugged as a whole: Its emotional range is decidedly limited. Welch's \"Try a Little Tenderness\" is mournful and utterly devoid of playfulness, and though no one's going to fault her for her putting her own signature spin on a classic so is every other moment of this performance. Which means that \"Tenderness\" bleeds right into the song after it, an acoustic arrangement of the powerballad \"No Light, No Light\". Her twangy duet with Josh Homme, a cover of the Johnny Cash and June Carter song \"Jackson\", provides a little deviation, but not much. Many of these songs might sound good on their own, but listening to them one after the other exposes their repetitions. There's only a certain number of times you can listen to Welch feeling lost in the verse and then found, transcendently, in the bombast of the chorus before it all starts to feel like a package of \"Amazing Grace\"themed magnetic poetry, with each new track shuffling the elements around just so. Unlike one of Welch's songs, though, Unplugged is a decrescendo, and the performance runs out of steam by the time she gets to two of her best songs, \"Dog Days are Over\" and \"Shake it Out\". The latter, a torch song that has enough oomph not just to move mountains but to pick them up and punt them, peters out into a disappointingly tepid finale. No one who listens to Unplugged will accuse Welch of being an untalented singer, but they might be left wanting more from the material she lends her voice to. Fans will enjoy hearing Welch's songs opened up in this format, but her Unplugged definitely doesn't rank among the classics of the series. The artists who have been responsible for the best and most enduring Unplugged albums Nirvana, Lauryn Hill, and JayZ's collaboration with the Roots all used the candlelit stage to explore new directions in their respective sounds. For Welch, it serves the opposite end: It displays the boundlessness of her vocal talent but finds her tethered to a frustratingly limited aesthetic. "}