{"label":" Acéphale","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17658/homepage_large.e648b780.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Carrie Battan","artist":"Elite Gymnastics","title":"Ruin 3","text":" In the intro to his 1999 raveculture chronicle Generation Ecstasy, Simon Reynolds writes: \"Scenes are strongest when they remain remote from all of that [selfimportance], and instead thrive as anonymous collectives, subcultural machines in which ideas circulate back and forth between DJs and producers, the genre evolving incrementally, week by week.\" While not always explicitly paying homage to sounds from the London hardcore rave scenes of the early 1990s in addition to breakbeats, their approach folds in amorphous elements of electropop, jungle, drum'n'bass, and hiphop samples Elite Gymnastics' recent oneoff tracks and Ruin series continue to honor the method of passing material around a likeminded group of electronic musicians and building on it the way Reynolds describes. With each iteration of the ongoing Ruin project, numerals and parentheticals are added to the base tracks to a point where it doesn't so much matter where they began, only that there are still ways to build upon them, and minds wanting to do that expanding and molding. On Ruin 3, the Minneapolis duo of James Brooks and Josh Clancy have invited six artists to offer up their takes on three of their tracks here we find extended remixed versions of the breathy, breakbeatheavy originals \"Here, in Heaven\", \"Minneapolis Belongs to You\", and \"So Close to Paradise\". The remixes on Ruin 3 don't all hold up on their own, but for anyone who enjoyed the first two installments of the project, they're satisfying additions not merely excess or supplement to a collection that somehow seems to have a lot of inspirational juice left in it.  The term \"remix\" is used to the full range of its definition. On one hand, How to Dress Well's Tom Krell takes Ruin 1 highlight \"Here, in Heaven\" and strips it down to its glacial churchorgan core, cooing lyrics that were previously difficult to make out in his trademark almostfalsetto: \"Is it okay to go through life being untouchable?/ Is it okay to be in love with something dead?\" he whimpers, giving any listener who'd considered Elite Gymnastics' lyrics unimportant a new perspective on the original version of the song. (He later offers what's possibly a sly wink in singing, \"oh, oh, oh, oh, oh\" in a way that immediately calls to mind the hook on Alicia Keys' 2007 hit \"No One\".) On the other end of the spectrum, an Anime Skyscraper remix of the same song brings it to a place of bloated, ambient unrecognizability that doesn't do much besides add filler to the collection. But if you're still left longing for yet another rework of \"Here, in Heaven\", you can't do much better than Montreal producer CFCF's slowburning fingersnap version, which recreates (and possibly upstages) the original altogether. And that's not even counting yet another remix by Natalie Bootleg, Physical Therapy's drum'n'bass retooling of \"So Close to Paradise\" or the LOL Boys version of \"Minneapolis Belongs to You\". There's a lot of ground covered here. But that's not to say that Ruin 3 is a typical exercise in remix miscellany if anything, the way Elite Gymnastics create and solicit remixes feels like a constructive counterpoint to the growing trend of artists slapping anything and everything over a blog hit and uploading it to SoundCloud to increase pageviews or follower counts. It's the songs themselves that grow bigger and more evolved with each additional edition (\"Here, in Heaven\" being the most notable example), not the level of namebrand recognition of the artists doing the remixing. Brooks and Clancy have done well to carefully draw in collaborators and cultivate a project that is outwardlooking and communal. "}