{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17653/homepage_large.ddc3a7da.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Boldy James","title":"Consignment: Favor For a Favor, the Redi-Rock Mixtape","text":" Every few years, a rapper comes along to mine a particular lane of postMobb Deep hiphop; a hardened unwavering monotone, a voice with the emotional range of a concrete block. Boldy James is far from the first to work in this vein his stoned delivery might not be the most deft, and his lyrics don't indulge in the wittiest of wordplay. His style trades heavily in authenticity, an anathema to many critics who don't understand the way \"realness\" helps drive hiphop's ethical worldview, defining the genre's parameters. But in the unflinching, unapologetic descriptions of the drug dealer's daytoday, Boldy James reinvigorates a familiar template by coming up with a more effective and moving method to convey his truths with magnetic, powerful style. His debut album, 2011's Trapper's Alley: Pro's and Cons, the Quikcrete Mixtape, was actually recorded over the course of many years. Some of the verses had been written by the 29yearoldartist when he was still a teenager. Consignment: Favor For a Favor, The RediRock Mixtape is only a slight step down from his debut; although the guests there are many add to the overall feeling that he has drawn the listener into his Detroit world, not all of the rappers who make this tape have the same presence as James. Despite this and its 26tracklength, the album is incredibly consistent. Paradoxically, what's made his work feel so honest is the energy he puts into its artfulness, the striking moments of poetic license. On \"Graze the Top\", an album highlight, Boldy's figurative language is almost anachronistic: \"Even if the cops flick/ Got my gunpowder and my musket/ Trust and believe that you'll be bleedin' like a stuck pig.\" It's these kinds of writerly details that make his work stand apart, that give it a personal stamp. There's a sense that only Boldy James would choose to express himself this way, which helps transcend the signifiers of particular hiphop eras or subgenres. From the queasy discomfort of \"White Dresses\" to the reinvention of a Mobb Deep classic on \"The Last Two Days\", James is as much a songwriter as he is a lyricist. Perhaps the most impressive highlight, \"Jackie Brown\", samples a 1970s funk song performed by James' uncle; the flawless execution of its gunpersonification concept would make Nas jealous. But even if the occasional beat doesn't quite connect like it should, or a guest rapper doesn't completely deliver, it's difficult to discount any tracks because of how powerfully Boldy's lyrics operate in even the album's rare weak moments. His verse on \"Nothing Can Save Us\" is an example of how an uncomplicated, straightforward style can leave a deep impact: \"I grew up a fuckin' screwup, got introduced to the game watching my grandmother shoot up/ In her veins, poppin' the skin, pull out the syringe, headnodding again.\" But with this kind of hyperspecificity, the goal isn't to shock or to manufacture realityporn; instead, it's almost as if he lends horrific events some dignity by putting them to paper. It's a continuation of the evocatively rendered tragedy of Trapper's Alley's \"There Goes the Neighborhood\", a song that simply listed the names of incarcerated associates, known to the outside world only through Boldy's music. Boldy James manages to weave such compelling narratives that the listener feels bound to follow them, to make it so the lives the artist renders aren't left invisible to history. There's a lot to say about a record like Consignment, because there are so many songs and his personality is so purposefully conveyed. He's said that for him, the recording booth was a kind of therapy, a way to stay sane and let off steam while dealing with some particularly stressful life experiences. Boldy's drug dealing lifestyle never leads to lavish clubhopping, and despite taking on street rap's occupational core cliché, he sketches it in an uncompromisingly confident way. One gets the sense that if James didn't have so much to get off his chest, his rapping wouldn't be quite as invigorating; he's a rapper for whom content is style, whose subtle poetic gifts are dependent on the seeming veracity of the concrete heart of the stories he tells. "}