{"label":" Good to Die","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17674/homepage_large.f3b17735.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Dog Shredder","title":"Brass Tactics EP","text":" You know there's more than a little shade being thrown in your direction when someone refers to your band as \"technically proficient.\" A backhanded compliment of the highest order, it suggests, among other things, that here's an act that lacks a definitive sound, hides behind rudiments, and is mostly incapable of eliciting any sort of feeling or triggering any sort of real surprise. But, you know, they can play. So it's with trepidation that we're introduced to Bellingham, Washington, progmetal freakazoids Dog Shredder; after releasing only five songs across two EPs, Pitchfork's Brandon Stosuy noted of them, \"you'll have an idea why it takes them so long to learn their parts.\" But for all of its technical proficiency, the Brass Tactics EP the trio's riotously complex, three song followup to 2010's Boss Rhino EP is the mark of an exhilarating new voice that's fun, ferocious, and ultimately exhausting in the most satisfying kind of way. Opener \"Battle Toads\" is as good a place to start as any, a neckbreaker of a track that perfectly carves out the band's aesthetic: Turnonadime changes (roughly 300 per track), stretches of gleeful thrash that headbangers of all walks could enjoy, and a bracing interplay between lightning fast drumming, pogoworthy bass work, and quickfingered guitar burn that would appease even the shrewdest mathrock snobs. Evoking postemo outfits like the Blood Brothers and metallic progsters like the Fucking Champs, these references feel surprisingly fresh for revisitation, especially when considered alongside the return of anthemic poppunk of the same era. There may very well may be too much being piled on at once here, but to complain about getting tangled in Dog Shredder's hectic webs would be to miss a pretty obvious point. It's sort of akin to those \"Wild Mouse\" roller coasters you find at low budget amusement parks: Just when it looks like you're about to tip right over the rails and into oblivion, you're automatically jerked 90 degrees in the next direction. The feeling that the bolts may be coming apart beneath you is part of the appeal. As if titles like \"Battle Toads\" (you may remember this TMNT knockoff) and \"Battle Snake\" (probably not a reference to this, but what the hell) weren't enough of a giveaway, Brass Tactics feels very much indebted to video games in general. \"Snake\" is somehow faster and more fervent than \"Toads\", with guitarist Josh Holland's manic fingertapping sounding like the gathering of so many pixelated coins. \"Battle Snake\" captures a rare moment where the band feels as if it may trip over its own feet, but in keeping all of this energy tightly bundled, it feels like a novice player's panicked mashing of a button pad that, unexpectedly and triumphantly, executes a graceful but fatal blow onscreen. Which isn't to say that these tracks can't put on a straight face, albeit in monitored doses. With almost every brainslurrying crescendo, there's a fouronthefloor tensionreliever to cushion the fall, like the bruising Motörheadcribbing cowpunk sprints on \"Battle Snake\" that lesser bands would not only kill for, but would likely drive into the ground. If they so pleased, there's no saying that Dog Shredder couldn't be a really exciting metal or punk band proper (the proof is in the hooks), but you get the impression that the challenge (and the reward) lies in finding ways in and out of the labyrinth with athletic execution. Bear in mind that this is a band that formed after drunkenly deciding they should learn Yes' \"Heart of the Sunrise\" in its entirety. Brass Tactic's biggest surprise is saved for last in \"Battle 07\", an outofnowhere gothic ballad that dials the BPMs back by at least half. It features a languorous, aching breed of psychedelia that's as elegantly dreadful as a cathedral fire, thanks in large part to those howling organs and Holland's strained screams. Brass Tactics really has only two big problems, and one is that it could use more of Holland's vocals. The other problem, of course, is that it's just too damn short. Some would argue that this level of intensity would be hard to stomach over the course of a fulllength album, but with all due respect, speak for yourself. Brass Tactics is proof that ambition and skill don't automatically cancel out heart. "}