{"label":" Shrimper","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17664/homepage_large.8f46fad4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Amps for Christ / Woods","title":"Woods / Amps for Christ","text":" Woods' 2011 album Sun and Shade came and went so quietly that it felt like it was largely forgotten when it came time to compile the yearend shakedowns. The lack of fanfare that heralds the band's releases, of which there are many, mirrors the quiet, introspective nature of the group members themselves. Records from Woods come often, rarely dropping below the impressively high bar they've set for themselves despite their tap never being fully turned off. It seems likely the band members are too hard at work on their next project(s) to care too much for the conversation surrounding their current release. So here we are with another Woods record, this time a selftitled split LP with folknoise experimentalist Henry Barnes, better known for his highly erratic output under the name Amps for Christ. The work is carved up neatly over this album, with four Amps for Christ tracks, four from Woods, and one collaborative effort. Barnes' recordings, made up of three instrumentals and one vocal composition, are all over the map, as anyone who has paid close attention to his output has come to expect. \"When\" manages to pull a kind of sickly lofi sweetness from his jarring and occasionally sloppy playing. It's recorded to make him feel like he's right there in the room with you, fluffing chords and tripping over the rush of ideas pulsating through his brain. Barnes' work has a childlike wonder to it, ranging from endearing, naiflike approaches (the ramshackle \"Roto Koto in C Major\") to grating, subpar noise aberrations (the aimless electronics of \"Native Chantz\"). On \"Lord Bateman (Child #53)\", he demonstrates his superior skills as a craftsman of jolly folk songs juxtaposed with quietly screaming guitars a move that immaculately paves the way for Woods' similarly minded pieces.  There's little mistaking these as Woods songs once Jeremy Earl's caterwauled falsetto sinks in, although this is a strippedback version of the band. Mostly they forgo electric guitars altogether, instead settling on a roughly hewn form of acoustic bonhomie. There's plenty of space in these recordings, making it sound like you're sitting on Earl's porch, listening to his group cobble together songs with little or no finesse. You can practically smell the marshmallows getting toasted over a crackling campfire in the background. The only exception is \"Wind Was the Wine\", a vigilantly assembled Woodsian take on pop that would effortlessly fit alongside \"Pushing Onlys\" and \"Death Rattles\" should this band ever assemble something like a greatest hits album. Elsewhere it's much more openedended, with the music leading them down knotty, freeform paths (\"September Saturn\") and encroaching on the kind of crackpot takes on rootsy Americana Will Oldham often attempts (\"Brothers\"). So this feels less like an \"album\" in the traditional sense and more like a loose string of unconnected ideas, pieced together with little thought for direction. As such, it just about works, with the lack of production values helping convey the spirit of adventure in which it was no doubt conceived. That feeling is typified by the collaboration between the two artists, \"From Oatmeal to Buttermilk\", which is dominated by what sounds like a warily plucked sitar (or perhaps one of Barnes' homemade instruments). It's constantly teetering on the brink of implosion, nearly sticking to its shabby meter, with all the players sounding like they're barely in control of what they're doing. But in many respects that's what a project like this is for, to suss out potential directions, to push forward into new areas. John Peel always said he was disappointed if a band recorded a Peel Session and just stuck to what they were already good at. Sometimes you've got to take the machine apart and figure out a new way to put it back together.   "}