{"label":" Liberation Technologies","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17667/homepage_large.93b9315b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"King Felix","title":"Spring EP","text":" Listen to music without someone's breakable body in mind. The BrooklynviaAnn Arbor electronic artist Laurel Halo recently posted this to Twitter, and after one month of listening to her precise new Spring EP, recorded under the name King Felix, the message remained lodged in my mind. The desire to distinguish one's art from the physical self could explain her move from an angelic moniker (Halo is an adopted name) to a more fierce and masculine one. And this idea is central to the new Mute imprint Liberation Technologies, a label founded to free artists of a sense of expectation, for which Spring is the premiere release. Following a pair of 12\" EPs for the boutique electronic outpost Hippos in Tanks, as well as a cassette for microlabel NNA Tapes, Spring stands as Halo's most accessible and aggressive work to date, a case of masterful brainspace music that employs frightening bits of suspension at one moment and a more conventional, cluboriented 4/4 click at the next. Quickly paced, the EP is characterized partially by its movement and immediacy, with a sublime sonic build that finally harnesses the intensity of what Halo has achieved live for several years. The enormous organ samples that open \"SPRING 01\", reminiscent of those found on Klaus Schulze's Trancefer, pave the way for visceral beats that anchor the track's engrossing texture with jolting razorsharp rips.   On Halo's first release, the avantpop King Felix EP, she said she used lyrics to \"inject feeling\" into electronic music; her voice then was widely compared to Enya. By her own standards, the instrumental Spring feels a bit less human and perhaps more mechanical. A warped vocal sample early on in \"SPRING 01\" seems to confirm that with its vocoded aesthetic, but it's a fleeting addition to the song, contributing just a bit of metallic mood. That the layers on Spring are so purposeful and welledited enhances the sense of retrofuturism, sometimes bringing to mind firstwave jungle and later darkwave offshoots. This is especially apparent on \"SPRING 03\", an alternate version of \"SPRING 01\" that expands the track with added breathing room and recurring, primitive breakbeats. Because Halo is working on Spring within the context of science fiction \"King Felix\" is an allusion to the author Philip K. Dick's 1981 novel VALIS \"SPRING 03\" reminds me of a time loop, the brokenrecord scifi plot device where we relive the same experiences (think Groundhog Day). The track's percussive focalpoints emphasize that feeling of entrapment. And this sense of drama is heightened on the collection's final track, \"Freak\", a paranoid, experimental drone collage that presents three minutes of haunted, quavering synths. It feels not so much an afterthought as an afterword, with choral vocals lost under the noise. \"SPRING 02\", a classically structured ambient dance track with a futurist sheen, points to another time and place, specifically early R&S and Detroit techno. Spring, then, presents multiple personas over four tracks while still feeling coherent a skill that's becoming a signature across Halo's discography. The Philip K. Dick novel VALIS also deals with the shifting identities of a nearschizophrenic narrator, as well as the potential for pure, rational information to save man from the noise of everyday life. Halo said she tried to channel this \"rational energy invasion\" on the first King Felix release, and while Spring is a far cry from that EP's echoladen synth pop, the connection is there, and the concept does feel newly interpreted. That clearheaded approach also makes Spring function similarly to the most accessible tracks from Oneohtrix Point Never's Replica. The hyperfeminine first track from Halo's upcoming Hyperdub debut suggests that Spring, despite its titular hints at rebirth, will likely be a standalone in her discography. And so the King Felix project is an example of an artist not afraid to toe bold new territory for the mere sake of exploration, if only for 18 minutes.  "}