{"label":" Dark Descent","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17680/homepage_large.be7b66e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Anhedonist","title":"Netherwards","text":" Seattle is a dreary, morosely beautiful place. Rainfall is a given, pine scents the air, the cities and wilderness are painted in bleary soft and decaying grays, and a pervading gloom settles over the people there like funeral fog. Culturally speaking, it's maybe best known for its heroin casualties and negative creeps; in other words, it's not exactly a bastion of shiny, happy music. It is, though, a perfect breeding ground for ugly, sad, fuckedup music, and has spawned plenty of it. That a band like Anhedonist calls Seattle home is yet another testament to its downcast charms. The overwhelming bleakness and raw elegance of the quartet's recording could have only been spawned beneath cold Northwestern skies. Anhedonist's initial offering, a 2010 demo aptly titled The Drear, provided ample hints of the greatness that was brewing, but the cloudy apocalyptic visions they conjured up on that first release have since been refined and rendered blindingly clear on Netherwards. It's rare enough to find a traditional doom band that truly deserves to be dubbed \"epic,\" let alone a death/doom monolith, yet there is no more fitting descriptor for so much of Anhedonist's songwriting. This is epic in the way of an Odyssey or a Kalevala; powerful, complex, and overwhelmingly dense. There is no solace here. There is only a sprawling narrative of sorrow and malice, humanity's fall, and the cruel light of morning. Distortion and despair. Beauty and brutality. Melancholia and menace. Netherwards is a triumph of death/doom. For such an inherently simple style death metal meets doom metal in a ruined Gothic cathedral there are an infinite number of ways to do it wrong: too sloppy, too forced, too wimpy, too bad. Luckily, we have bands like Anhedonist to carry the torch sparked by the likes of Disembowelment, Celestial Season, Skepticism, and Thorr's Hammer and fan the flames with their own tormented take on the sound. Netherwards begins with silence, as \"Saturnine\" slowly slithers into earshot, then pulls the trigger with a merciless blast of crushing, lurching death. The rest of the record follows suit, alternating hammerblows of sepulchral, endlessly satisfying oldschool death metal riffs with shades of mournful grace, like the clean, plaintive chords that open the aching \"Estrangement\". Those who follow the regressive occult transgressions of Incantation, Grave Miasma, Necros Christos, and especially the hideous joylessness of Loss will approve. When Anhedonist sink into total death, the riffs pummel and sway with the best of them, but their strength lies most within their more melodic passages. Anyone can flail and blast and scream, but it takes care, understanding, and wells of patience to create this kind of wellwrought extreme metal. Slowly rotting tempos interchange with fullon thrashing; riffs careen between vintage Morbid Angel sludginess and My Dying Bride's sophistication; a 15minute song leaves you dying to hear more. Atmosphere is everything, and Netherwards is coated in layers of cobwebs and bone meal. The vocals shake and thunder, calling up from the depths in guttural chorus. The drums take a back seat, working with the understated basslines to support the weight of the guitars. You can see them sweat, watch them bleed. Netherwards will draw you in entirely, drag you down into the yawning abyss, and make you wonder why anyone would ever want to listen to anything else. "}