{"label":" Virgin / Back Porch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1636/homepage_large.4c7611bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Cracker","title":"Forever","text":" Get ready, key Pitchfork demographic (1825 year olds); you're about to become the target of an oldies campaign. Given the evershortening waiting period for nostalgia (hey, man, remember when the Patriots won the Super Bowl?) it's just a matter of time before the first \"hits of the 90s\" radio stations start popping up across the country. And when \"Seether\" starts rockin' the airwaves again, you better believe Verula Salt will be touring America's lowcapacity venues, perhaps coheadlining with Ned's Atomic Dustbin and Jesus Jones. Nine years removed from their biggest hits, Cracker would seem to be statefair circuit material themselves. Yet, to their credit, David Lowery & Co appear to be trying their hardest to avoid this fate and remain a vital, relevant act with their newest album, Forever. Of course, when your band's lasting image for most people is the lead singer boxing Sandra Bernhard, that's an uphill battle to be fighting. Cracker's secret weapon against obscurity, apparently, is to take refuge under the rootsrock banner, releasing Forever on the Virgin imprint Back Porch Records and wearing a whole lot of denim in the album art. While perhaps a further insult to hardcore Camper Van Beethoven fans desperately praying for Lowery to turn around his musical deevolution, the choice at least reflects a purpose more thought out than, \"Hey, remember us? Please, please, please buy our new album!\" But rootsrock itself has always been something of a questionable cause, usually implying something along the lines of \"we're tired of experimenting; let's just make music that's already been made a thousand times before.\" Save a few exceptions, that's mostly the vibe Forever projects, with the band (whittled down to a core of Lowery and guitarist Johnny Hickman) content to reside along a familiar countryrocksoul axis. You've got your acoustic guitar base, your occasional slide guitar fill, your Dylanesque organ, your chugalug drums, and your mildly catchy melodies. It would be offensive if it wasn't so obvious that Cracker doesn't aspire to much more than this rustic middleAmerica mediocrity act. Or do they? Mark Linkous returns the favor of Lowery cowriting the brilliant Sparklehorse anthem \"Sick of Goodbyes\" by producing the leadoff \"Brides of Neptune\" and tweaking Cracker's sound by throwing some eerie synth voices and a tinny drum loop into the mix. And while it's not quite Jim O'Rourke reinventing Wilco, it is a compelling opening to the album. Hickman's lone solo composition, \"Superfan\", also augments the Cracker formula with an underlying drone and some \"Baba O'Riley\" violin, indicating that he's more than just Lowery's hiredgun soloist. But then again, experimentation also gives us \"What You're Missing\", a selfreferential joke that painfully allows these Crackers to nearrap about their respective roles in the band. That sound you hear is Biggie rapidly spinning around in his oversized, solidgold coffin. Humorous intention or no, can we please put a ban on white rock bands rapping? Elsewhere, Lowery's singing voice retains the same old onedimensional, inflexible rasp which, given the uniformity of the music, works more often than not. Less successful are attempts to soften it with twobit Sheryl Crowish harmony/backing vocals, which give \"Shine\" and \"Guarded by Monkeys\" a distastefully slick sheen. In fact, the album's overall polished countenance doesn't seem to jive with the band's supposed rootsy goals. So, no, Forever isn't the album that's going to rescue Cracker from the discount used bins and return them to radio prominence, but at the very least, it establishes them on the respectable side of the soontobeoldies continuum: more our generation's Cheap Trick than our Doobie Brothers. And something tells me that's about all they're shooting for. "}