{"label":" The End","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17694/homepage_large.b0a0e924.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Dandy Warhols","title":"This Machine","text":" By most standards, the Dandy Warhols have it pretty good. Unlike so many bands swept up in the 1990s majorlabel altrock signing blitz, they survived a decadelong stint on Capitol with their sanity intact. Though they haven't scraped the top 40 charts in any country for almost 10 years, they can still tour respectably sized 1,000capacity clubs around the world. And, having built their own studio in their hometown of Portland, they can produce albums and art projects at their own leisurely pace. However, as the Dandys' case illustrates, there's a fine line between selfsufficiency and purgatory at this point, they're no longer a threat to the mainstream, nor an influential force in any indie microscene of note. At their turnofthemillennium peak, the Dandy Warhols represented a cheekily decadent antidote to the sincerity and selfimportance of cardiganclad indie rock, but as those orthodoxies have waned, so too has the Dandys' power of provocation. Their nebulous standing is best measured by the fact there's now a whole TV show devoted to skewering Portland hipsterdom that hasn't even deigned to make them a target. But Dandys frontman Courtney TaylorTaylor is nothing if not a keen observer, and the band's latest album offers up a surprisingly selfeffacing line: \"I used to be cool.\" Sure, he sings it in a droll, Tim Curryesque drawl that suggests he's singing in the voice of another, but the song from which it originates, \"Enjoy Yourself\", seemingly makes peace with the fact that his lifeoftheparty days are behind him; to wit, the song's title is rhymed with \"enjoy your health.\" It's an early indication that This Machine is indeed the most sober Dandy Warhols album to date, reining in the stonerrock sprawl, the curledlip snark, and bad puns endemic to so many Dandys releases. At 43 minutes, it's their shortest album yet and, mercifully, about half an hour shorter than 2008's endless …Earth to the Dandy Warhols.... Where Dandys records tend to hew strongly toward either droning 1960s psychedelia or synthpowered new wave, This Machine attempts to reconcile the two by homing in on that mid80s moment when postpunkers started to bask in psychedelic sunshine; one of the key instigators of that movement David J of BauhauscumLove & Rockets even chips in with a cowriting cameo on \"The Haunted Carnival\". It's a good look for the Dandys: On that song and the opening \"Sad Vacation\", TaylorTaylor maintains a coolly unobtrusive presence, singing in hushed tones as shocks of feedback attempt to destabilize their steady backbeats, while the moody ballad \"Well They're Gone\" successfully pulls off a deft balance of Parisian chanson and dubby rhythms. And if the robopunk instrumental \"Alternative Power to the People\" undermines its intensity with a flurry of annoying faux recordscratch effects, at the very least, it'll give you something new to mix out of Tones on Tail's \"Go!\" the next time you spin at your local pub's Goth Night. Given its promising start, you might be inclined to place This Machine on the level of the Dandy's superior first three albums but doing so will make you feel like a touchdownbound wide receiver who drops the ball before hitting the end zone. The Dandys' have never been an especially political band, and while their cover of Merle Travis' \"16 Tons\" may give them a backhanded way to address America's economic troubles, its bumpandgrind swing featuring Los Lobos' Steve Berlin on sax is incongruously hammy to the point of making light of the workingclass woe described within. And where TaylorTaylor has traditionally used his elastic voice to communicate various degrees of disaffection, on This Machine's wouldbe powerpop pickmeups, \"SETI vs the WOW! Signal\" and \"I Am Free\", he just sounds bored \"there's music deep inside of me,\" he claims on the latter, but his monotone delivery suggests he's really singing about embalming fluid. \"Don't Shoot She Cried\" attempts to save face by hearkening back to the Dandys' hazy, psychdrone roots, and yet this sixminute nonstarter serves only to remind you that there's a new Spiritualized album out. At the outset, This Machine seems like an apt title for a record that surges forth with a wiry, motorik momentum; by the end, it becomes an alltoofitting descriptor of a band going through the motions. "}