{"label":" Planet Mu","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17693/homepage_large.2d1e839c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Traxman","title":"Da Mind of Traxman","text":" Dance music is a futurist's game, and footwork is no different. When the music bubbled up out of Chicago's South and West Sides two years ago, listeners took notice in part because of the undeniable newness of the sound. Since then, conversation has focused on where footwork is going, especially on where forwardthinking artists both here (Sepalcure, Machinedrum) and across the Atlantic (Kuedo, Addison Groove) are taking the sound. Planet Mu releases by Chicago artists like DJ Diamond, DJ Nate, and DJ Roc ensured that the scene's progenitors got their due, but those albums especially Diamond's Flight Muzik strove for rhythmic and melodic complexity foreign to the scene's established M.O. Traxman is the latest Chicago artist to record a fulllength for Planet Mu. Da Mind of Traxman is notable in part because it's an album more concerned with footwork's past than its future. A godfather of the style, Traxman came up in the 1990s ghettohouse scene and fostered the genre through collaborations, DJ sets, and mixes without building up much of a catalog under his own name. Da Mind of Traxman sounds like its title, the pentup musings of a veteran spilling onto wax. The conversational powers of footwork shouldn't be underrated: Those whirring vocal samples are a language game waiting to happen, and the genre's unapologetic, unmonitored sampling culture allow it to interact with other musics in ways that house and techno often can't. Traxman syncs footwork to its Chicago lineage juke and house but more interestingly to soul, funk, and rock. Opening track \"Footworkin on Air\" features what sounds like a wooden xylophone competing with a pointillist sequencer and blocky bass. It's as light and frothy as footwork gets, and it has as much to do with Aphex Twin as Dance Mania. Traxman often downplays his drum machines; I get the impression he cares as much about Rhodes pianos as he does 808s. \"Itz Crack\" and \"Rock You\" contrast lilting jazz/soul melodies with quick, noninvasive percussion. On the infrequent occasions where he slips into vulgar ghettohouse mantras, he sets them against his weirdest compositions. \"Going Wild\" (a collaboration with Rashad and AG) is schizophrenic, vacillating between chirpy irritants and halftime bass distensions, all keeping uneasy pace with a wordless, Eastern vocal melody. It sounds like paint flakes off of Flying Lotus' drywall. \"1988\" pays homage to the scifi synth ropes of vintage Detroit techno.  Of course, there's nothing particularly \"footwork\" about the Dillaisms of \"Lady Dro\" or the tinroof patter of \"Sound Filed\", but that hardly seems the point. When, on \"Lifeeeee Is For Ever\", he stirs Prince's organbacked monologue from \"Let's Go Crazy\" into a stuttering frenzy, it feels less like albumclosing pathos and more like a producer saying, \"oh yeah, I forgot, I really love Prince, too.\" Listening to Da Mind of Traxman is a little like staring at a page of .gif images: Those short, repeating animations have a way of revealing detail. And when they don't it's still comforting to know that they'll spin there in perpetuity. Da Mind of Traxman is Traxman's musical history set on loop, a conversation held in stunted, loving bursts. "}