{"label":" Volcom","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17697/homepage_large.56460df4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Torche","title":"Harmonicraft","text":" Miami's Torche have spent the bulk of their career in transition, whether moving among labels, cutting and recruiting members, or flipping from popmetal to instrumental sludge cascades. Their third album, Harmonicraft, is a summation of influx firsts: This is Torche's first fulllength since the wonderful 2008 breakthrough, Meanderthal. It's also their first for Volcom Entertainment after stints on Hydra Head, Robotic Empire, and Rock Action. And it's their first since the departure of lead guitarist Juan Montoya and the addition of Andrew Elstner. You'd be forgiven, then, for expecting something fresh. But given all Harmonicraft's inherent turnaround, it's surprising to hear just how codified and predictable Torche sound at this point. The band's early works (and live shows) came possessed by extreme senses of adaptability and possibility, with heavy lumber erupting from heartfelt limber without notice, and vice versa. On Harmonicraft, those assets are subsumed largely by structures and strategies that feel settled from the start. \"Reverse Inverted\" comes off like a song Torche simply forgot to put on any of their previous releases; the chug of \"Skin Moth\" picks up the pace and even adds a bit of falsetto at the start of the hook, though it otherwise might as well be mimeographed from Torche's sevenyearold debut. Despite the new member, the group's stylistic approach feels petrified here, with frontman Steve Brooks constantly staggering his way through midtempo verses before shouting mantras above harmonyheavy choruses. Though it's less than 38 minutes long, Harmonicraft starts to mire in monotony before it is half over. As bassist Jonathan Nuñez told Spin in a trackbytrack preview earlier this month, \"I don't know, man. They all kind of blur together after you've been talking about them. For me this song is just solid, intense Torche.\" He was, mind you, only on track eight of 13.   That's not to say that Harmonicraft is an unequivocal loss. Despite their proclivity for change, Torche have always embraced a good time, smiling and maybe shirtless on stage, even as they growled through their most viscous marches. \"Kicking\" is the sort of ricocheted anthem that deserves an arena lights show and a mass of gleeful people singing along, while the chromatic psychedelics and malevolent pulse at the start of \"Snakes Are Charmed\" create thrilling juxtaposition. Brooks lifts his voice a bit for opener \"Letting Go\", thinning his tone until it nears a yelp, suggesting Wayne Coyne with actual blood on his face. Elstner's solo at the start of 90second ricochet \"Walk It Off\" affords Torche's hum a surprising, delightful squeal, as do his heroic spirals throughout \"Sky Trials\". Time and again, however, these songs skip back to the same middle ground of insistent throb and itinerantly thick vocals, stunting the surprises with typecasts. With tracks named \"Letting Go\", \"Walk It Off\", \"In Pieces\", and \"Solitary Traveler\", Harmonicraft feels thematically like an attempt to make a break with the past, to show that Torche have survived their split with Montoya and an indecisive EP as a trio to emerge as a renewed recordingandtouring quartet. There are bursts that certainly suggest they want to do that, but others that indicate they might not be able to, at least not yet. The title track, after all, is a roaring Neu! recast, with the motorik beat hitting a little harder, with the guitars tuned to sound a little meaner, the pedals programmed so as to drown the rest of the sound. It's the cleanest break Torche have ever made with their reputation and probably the best thing here; it's unfortunately the outlier for a record best summarized by its own orthodoxy. Maybe this is Torche again dealing with a state of transition, wheels spinning deep into the rut as the band tries to push toward something new. Harmonicraft is not without its moments; its just that, sometimes, spans of monotony and predictably make remembering or caring for those moments more work than they're worth. "}