{"label":" Tri Angle","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17706/homepage_large.2740fb80.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"AlunaGeorge","title":"You Know You Like It EP","text":" George Reid, the producer half of London duo AlunaGeorge, has an ear for the slightly warped. His tracks are filled with skittish, hiccuping beats, heliumrush vocals, and vaguely eerie tones that drift in from the corners of the mix. When discussing his influences in a recent interview, he said that he drew inspiration as a producer from a time when \"people weren't... afraid to do something a bit weird.\" Was he waxing nostalgic about some obscure, forgotten microscene he'd stumbled upon after endless hours of cratedigging? Nope, he was talking about how much he loves Timbaland and the Neptunes. We've heard enough of this refrain recently from avantpop artists like Grimes, Nite Jewel, and Purity Ring that it's starting to feel representative of a sea change. Artists with DIY leanings have been professing their love of the glossy bubblegum pop and R&B that dominated the airwaves when they were growing up the sort of music that a previous generation of indie musicians rejected entirely, or at least admired from a distance. Aluna Francis, the 24yearold singer who certainly plumbs this sound on the group's debut EP, You Know You Like It, admits she used to feel that way too. \"I had a big rejection of R&B for quite a long while, so when I started working for George, I was still trying to be something else,\" she recalls. \"But it was so ingrained in me that our music ended up sounding quite R&B without meaning to.\" The three slick, glitchy tracks on You Know You Like It also pull from the leftfield sounds associated with the LA label Brainfeeder and the Knife's creepily synthetic vibe, but a large part of their appeal comes from their glistening pop sensibility. When Francis coos on the title track, \"You know you like it but you're scared of the shame,\" it feels like more than just a slinky taunt: It's also a pretty succinct summary of her generation's relationship with the mainstream pop that she and Reid so love. Thematically and sonically, that's You Know You Like It's agenda: to strip away the guilt from the guilty pleasure.  AlunaGeorge share some noticeable similarities with Canadian electropop duo Purity Ring: they've got a male/female dynamic, an affinity for manipulated vocals tracks that gurgle and burp, and a babyvoiced aesthetic that suggests they remember exactly where they were when they first heard Timbaland sample a cooing infant (by way of Prince's \"Delirious\") on Aaliyah's 1998 hit \"Are You That Somebody?\". But the two groups explore different tones, and unlike the Kewpieeyed wonder of Purity Ring's sound, AlunaGeorge's tracks exude a seductive confidence. \"I'm not as hard as a rock, I'm just not easy to break,\" Francis sings on \"Just a Touch\", a hint of cool combativeness in her voice. \"But don't take it as an open invitation to try.\" Though it's definitely not a dud, \"Just a Touch\" is the least memorable of the three songs, and at worst it feels like a missed opportunity to show some range. But for a debut EP that's just over 10minutes long, You Know You Like It doesn't last long enough for its aesthetic limitations to become a problem. The commanding and instantly catchy \"You Know You Like It\" is the obvious single here, but the closing track \"Put Up Your Hands\" might just do it one better twisting and pulling Francis's vocals into otherworldly sounds. \"I've got a million emails in a box unread from you,\" she exhales, sounding noticeably annoyed. \"What you trying to prove?\" The lyric might look a little banal on paper, but over the course of the song it distends into a bit of dark, fatalistic drama. And that's just what Reid and Francis do on this EP: poke and prod familiar things until they take on the cast of something lustrous, sinister, and ever so slightly weird. "}