{"label":" Woodsist","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17707/homepage_large.af7436e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"White Fence","title":"Family Perfume Vol. 1","text":" On Hair, his recent collaborative LP with Ty Segall, California psychrock lifer Tim Presley benefited from a dose of semiprostudio botox. A homerecording primitivist of the Bob Pollard variety, Presley, who works under the name White Fence, shrouds his wiggly stoner gems in a curtain of tape hiss, distortion, and woozy effects. In comparison, Hair which was recorded in an honesttogoodness studio might as well be Steely Dan's Aja. Guitar hooks crackle and shimmer, rather than just crackle. But for those who prefer Presley's paisleytinted jangling with a hint of static, there's plenty to go around on Family Perfume. Whittled down from an alleged cache of 80 songs, Family Perfume gathers Presley's favorite efforts from a year spent crouched over a 4track recorder. Sometimes that means gentle hooks. Sometimes it means spinning sideways through backwards tape effects. At this point, Presley's earned his 50mission crush cap in trippy music. He's been a member of gothtinged spacerock outfit Darker My Love, a backup player in Austin garagepop group the Strange Boys, and, most randomly, a touring guitarist in the Fall (circa Reformation Post TLC). But White Fence is his most consistent project to date. Working sans bandmates, he's evolved an eerie and elastic take on the melodies of baby boomer teenhood; sampling Nuggetsera drum breaks and looping them to form the foundation for skewed guitar pop that isn't shy about cribbing some chord progressions from the Kinks, Buffalo Springfield, and Pink Floyd. Like his neopsych peers Woods, Sic Alps, and Segall Presley finds melodic inspiration in classic rock, but blurs his reference points toward punk by coating the music in lofi grit. His third proper album, Family Perfume, doubles down on those zonked out inclinations. Vol. 1, which arrived in early April, is the most consistent of the pair. The melodies bend and warble, but generally cohere into recognizable structures. \"Swagger Vets & Double Moon\" takes an inthered stab at glam rock. \"Do You Know Ida Know?\" augments a marching beat with eerily pitchshifted backing vocals. Meanwhile, Presley drops couplets that sound like Donovan trying to recap the plot of Repo Man. The 1960s may inform the riffs, but White Fence's lyrics aren't the stuff of nostalgia. At least, not for the summer of love. Presley's splintered narratives and word salads mostly call to mind his former bandmate, Mark E. Smith: \"A Detroit factory so black and melted/ Stands a better chance than the farmers' pollen/ In a field of grey concrete and you know it will never be,\" sings Presley on the surrealist breakup ballad, \"It Will Never Be\". From there, it just gets weirder. Vol. 2 divebombs deeper into the zonkedout ephemera, letting the outré tape noises and sound effects hold center stage. The retrorock reference point makes a noticeable slip from West Coast hippie fare toward the rubbery harmonies of Syd Barrettera Pink Floyd. Presley embraces the technical foibles of his recording gear stopping and starting takes to create confusing blends between songs. He gets loose with the playback speed control, giving his tunes the shapeshifting impermanence of oil globs burbling through a lava lamp. And sometimes, he just speaks his mind. On \"Be at Home\", Presley uses a headnodding loop to reflect upon cohabitation, including thoughts about \"the room I go to while you wash underwear in the sink.\" You know, lest you think he's taking the whole hermetic homerecording and 'illicit substances as a path toward transcendence' thing too seriously. "}