{"label":" Southern Lord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17710/homepage_large.cf0da1c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Black Breath","title":"Sentenced to Life","text":" Don't let the hair fool you: Black Breath are, more or less, a hardcore band. Yes, there are those death and thrash influences no denying the airguitaring solos, Swedish influences, or double leads. But when you listen to the SeattleviaBellingham quintet's second fulllength, Sentenced to Death, you're just as likely to hear early East Coast hardcore acts like CroMags and a variety of European crust punks as you are Slayer or Entombed (from whom they likely snagged their name, via a cover of an earlier Repulsion song, and definitely nicked their HM2 guitar tone). Also, Black Breath feature folks who used to play in groups like the melodic hardcore band Shook Ones and the oldschoolstyle floorpunchers Go It Alone, Blue Monday, and Get the Most. It makes sense they're working with Southern Lord again, too: SL label head Greg Anderson was in a bunch of straightedge hardcore bands in the early 1990s, including Brotherhood and Amenity and then, later, the posthardcore group, Engine Kid. You're still a hardcore kid after you grow your hair out.  Sentenced follows 2010's Heavy Breathing, an album that didn't hit me as hard as this one. I'm glad folks are ditching the rock'n'roll and going fullon punk in 2012 (see also Struck by Lightning). My favorite song on the last album was \"Fallen\", a blunt track that felt youth crew, in a gonetoseed sort of way. They continue that here, and without the slower bluesy numbers like the last LP's swollen, almost sixminute \"Unholy Virgin\". They recorded again with Converge's Kurt Ballou, who again does a great job, and they've upped the pace considerably see the excellent standout \"Home of the Grave\", perhaps the most \"groove\"oriented song on the album. They also go rapidfire, as on \"Forced Into Possession\", which blurs by in under two minutes. And \"Doomed\" is doom only in name; close you eyes, and this is fucking Youth of Today (sans cookies) or Gorilla Biscuits. Throughout, the muchimproved vocalist Neil McAdams leads plenty of shoutalong choruses, like the one on the opener \"Feast of the Damned\" and it's mosh breakdowns. Not everything is so lean: We get a longer, slower intro on \"Endless Corpse\", \"The Flame\" definitely nods toward the sludgier momentum of 2010, and awesomely huge closer \"Obey\" something that feels almost \"Jane Doe\"like in scale opens to gorgeous dual metal guitar soloing; but by and large, there's no \"fucking around\" here. This music won't slow a pit down at the live show, and there are tracks that would fit on a bill with the group's previous bands. In general, 2012 is sort of like the year midtempo died; drop the Black Sabbath nodding and dig deeper into the Discharge, Mob 47, Anti Cimex, and your own past as a hardcore kid. I'm not sure what's inspiring so many metal groups to go the path of dbeat and crust; I'd like to think it has something to do with America's uncertain economic future, or anarchism's relatively high profile in the wake of the Occupy movement. Whatever the case, folks are restless, and it's exciting. "}