{"label":" Prophecy","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17714/homepage_large.a89bbaf6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Secrets of the Moon","title":"Seven Bells","text":" Despite its status as one of the genre's birthplaces, Germany's blackmetal legacy is a bit lacking in quantity, if not necessarily quality. Best known for their schizophrenic depressives (Bethlehem), bloody orthodoxy (Nargaroth), folksy heathens (Nachtfalke), nasty black thrashers (Desaster), and dodgy right wingers (Absurd), as well as its untouchable contributions to thrash metal (Sodom, Destruction, Kreator), the Teutonic states have surely done their part to advance Satan's agenda, but only really produced a small handful of standout bands. Norwegian black metal is an established, documented phenomenon; German black metal really isn't. It's a bit strange, but perfectly in line with that stereotypical German obsession with efficiency. Trim the fat, cut the bullshit, sharpen the blade. With their latest release, Secrets of the Moon have taken their place amongst that short list of notables. Earlier efforts (especially 2009's inspired if slightly uneven Privilegivm) showed them to be formidable contenders in their own right, but Seven Bells has cemented their darkhorse standing. The words \"accessible\" and \"polished\" are not often used within the context of blackmetal record reviews, generally for good reason; any album christened with these dubious adjectives is almost surely being torn apart. However, Secrets of the Moon have figured out a way to write catchy, midtempo, wellproduced songs without sacrificing any integrity, extremity, or creativity. Having Hellhammer/Celtic Frost/Triptykon legend Tom G. Warrior behind the mixing board might have had something to do with it. His sootstained fingers are all over the sound here, especially the guitar tone and overall feeling of the recording, rendering it overwhelmingly dark, brooding, and surprisingly crisp. Seven Bells has more in common with Triptykon than Hellhammer. Instead of raw aggression, there's refinement and melancholia; instead of sloppily battered dbeats, there is doom and gloom. It's not very grim, but it works. Ever since a man with a guitar met a demon at the crossroads, it's been a wellworn fact that the devil's got the best tunes. It's only rock'n'roll, after all, but there's nothing godly in a Delta groove; it's all sex and sweat and gunsmoke. Secrets of the Moon have defrosted their Satanic hymns and amped up the swagger, and are all the better for it. This is black metal stripped of its pretensions and predatory instincts and left to fend for itself in a strange new world. Here, the longstanding UK gothic doom metal icons Paradise Lost is a more apt reference point than the primitive black vomit of Profanatica. Secrets of the Moon work within an almost constant midtempo pocket, and drink deeply from the chalice of velvety British doom as often as they sink their teeth into Nordic blasts. Funeral bells open the album, appearing sporadically throughout (see \"Serpent Messiah\", a slinky black'n'roll number with a soaring chorus). The songs are deceptively simple, slipping interesting elements or chord progressions into the mostly straightforward grooves to make sure you're paying attention. The 11minute behemoth \"Nyx\" closes with four solid minutes of ethereal ambience, then \"The Three Beggars\" kicks back into a more traditional (albeit synthaccented) slice of black malice, tempered with another dose of gothy elegance before fading to black. With Seven Bells, Secrets of the Moon deviate from the norm on almost all counts, hanging on to a few stalwart standards the raspy croaks, requisite blastbeats, and filthy, buried rock'n'roll swing but turning their backs on orthodoxy in favor of progression and weirdness. It's a good look for them. "}