{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17715/homepage_large.9d8b36ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Mohn","title":"Mohn","text":" German techno heroes Wolfgang Voigt and Jörg Burger have recorded too many records, in too many idioms, to easily summarize their virtues. Their respective discographies cover everything from grinding, amelodic house to cheery synthpop. But one thing they specialize in, together and separately, is ambient music that both fulfills the genre's requirements (sounds designed to wash over you as much as be consciously listened to) and subverts them (they might be demanding, however gently, that you actually pay attention to them). The records Voigt's made as Gas are a kind of superambient, music that that doesn't fill up the quiet in a room so much as envelop the room entirely, blocking out everything else, allowing you to either lose yourself in the massed clouds of sound or hear something new each time in those endless layers of sampled classical music. And on the reverse tip there's Las Vegas, the 1996 collaboration between Voigt and Burger as Burger/Ink, a sparkling exercise in strippeddown techno that still outdoes so much of the minimal electronic music that followed it. The velvetsmooth repetition of Las Vegas makes it easy enough to let it recede into the background. Or you can attempt to follow the fractal logic of its sparse melodies, the musical equivalent of flying over a city at night and trying to divine patterns in the lights blinking on and off in the black sea below you. Mohn is the latest collaboration between Voigt and Burger, and once again the duo has assembled an ambient record that avoids devolving into the agreeable twinkly mush that so often characterizes the genre at its least creative. In many ways, Mohn is the least dramatic, least immediately gripping ambient record either producer has released so far. Totally absent here is Voigt and Burger's love of a heavy kick drum, the lingering reminder of the traditionalist techno that formed them as producers, the steady thudthudthud that occasionally rises up out of the mists of the Gas records and the glittering haze of Las Vegas. There's a surprising lack of any hint of dance music on Mohn, though it still relies heavily on repetition as a structural principle to keep things from dissolving entirely into whoosh and swoosh. The closest Voigt and Burger get to an actual beat is something like the softly brushed drums of \"Ambientôt\", which could be the spacerock/dreampop of Galaxie 500, if Galaxie's formative influence had been Kraftwerk rather than the Velvet Underground. This might lead you to think Mohn is the duo's best chillout record yet. But to its credit, Mohn often follows the same path as Gas, where the materials of easy listening are darkened until they court unease. \"Einrauschen\" immediately strands the listener in a bleak landscape of frosteaten electronics as forbidding as anything the 1990s school of isolationist ambient sketched out, and parts of \"Schwarzer Schwan\" are like a spooky medieval choral piece hellaciously pitchwobbled to make it even more unnerving. But like Burger/Ink, even the lessforbidding or downright pretty stuff on Mohn keeps flying at you from unexpected angles. We've probably had enough homage to early1980s electronic film scores at this point, but \"Saturn\" adds something genuinely new to that chilly metronomic sound via an evershifting layer of gentle junkyard percussion, contrasting sleek retrofuturist precision with a kind of fractured antirhythm. \"Saturn\" and several other tracks here veer wildly from Voigt and Burger's established tricks, if you think owning a few dozen of their respective releases means you have them all figured out. But plenty of Mohn is still immediately recognizable as Voigt and Burger's handiwork. \"Seqtor 88\" is a dead ringer for the feathery dub techno of Burger/Ink, to the point where it might be mistaken as a Las Vegas outtake. Whatever weird hybrid genres it points to, though, Mohn's also still essentially an ambient record, even if it manages to avoid the sterility of actual background music. So it's appeal is probably limited, in the grand scheme of pop, but for aficionados, it's a muchneeded dose of invigoration. Recent entries in Kompakt's own Pop Ambient series, more or less a decadelong nod to Voigt and Burger's influence, simply drift by anemically, with no sense of building an environment or offering some contrasting edge to what can quickly become bland prettiness for its own sake. If not always up to their previous heights, Mohn highlights why these guys are still the masters, while so many of Kompakt's newschool driftologists are still students at best. "}