{"label":" Greedhead / Mishka / Veehead","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17719/homepage_large.439737dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Kool A.D.","title":"51","text":" Kool A.D. grew up in San Francisco while this is a wellknown fact, it's not one that's acknowledged particularly often. It's understandable considering Das Racist have become entrenched in N.Y.'s cultural milieu in so many different ways that their music has been embraced as something like a metaphor for a certain kind of lifestyle in the city. You can ascertain Victor Vazquez's Cali roots as a matter of relativity, being that Queens native Heems is more assertive as both a rapper and as a media presence. But otherwise, outside of calling himself the \"secondbest rapper with glasses after E40,\" it's tough to pinpoint much influence even when you know it's there. All of which makes Kool A.D.'s second mixtape of 2012, 51, a surprise and a long time coming: Recorded entirely in Oakland with a heavy presence of Bay Area producers and rappers, it's a testament to his heretofore untested malleability, a new way to hear the old Kool A.D. something which the admirable, if loopy outré R&B of The Palm Wine Drinkard got only half right. He takes every opportunity to enthusiastically serve as a tour guide (\"Couple blocks from the sun dial/ Candlestick Park, south one mile/ Alameda, Walnut, St. Anthony\"), drop slang, and rhyme over outthetrunk 808s (\"Ticky Ticky\") and nearhyphy rhythms (\"Manny Pacquiao\") to let you know he's making himself at home again. Overall, though, 51 feels more like a comprehensive California thing, specifically mid2000s Stones Throw in both sound and structure with the \"for the love\" generosity of recent E40 tossed in. There's an intelligent streamofconsciousness here, something along the lines of Madlib's work as Quasimoto or Guilty Simpson's overlooked OJ Simpson. To isolate a particular fiveminute run, the typically dense \"Donda\" (\"I'm so emotional like Thursday/ Cherchez anything/ So Diddy with it/ Looking for a check with like 50 digits\") abruptly cuts to a Dylan sample (\"Biz vs. Nudge\") and then 15 seconds later, a screwed Young L production named after British art maven and media provocateur Damien Hirst where Kool A.D., Dope G, and MondreM.A.N. are outfitted with aluminum voiceboxes. It all fits into the \"goin' back to Cali strictly for the weather, women, and the weed\" vibe, too genial and stoned to come off as chaotic as it reads, and even the tracks that initially feel like oneanddone listens Kool A.D.'s instrumentals in particularly tend to be longer on ideas than technique rarely end up triggering the fastforward impulse. While a twominute Huey Newton speech might sound like it clashes completely with the high spirits described thus far, it serves as a reminder of just how deeply felt the experience of recording back in Oakland was for Kool A.D., as well as a bridge between the Boots Riley feature \"Leverage\" and the paranoid \"TV Eye\". To a certain extent, the presence of Main Attrakionz is surely something of a selling point if not the fact that Kool A.D. is actually rapping for the most part on this one rather than further pursuing the robotripping path of Palm Wine Drinkard. It's the outermost he's gone to interact with hiphop as a whole, both stylistically and geographically, and it's not two worlds colliding so much as comfortably nestling. Neither changes their delivery in the slightest, and it doesn't do much to really put Kool A.D. within the current Bay Area conversation of \"cloud rap\" or #based. In those realms, the actual content takes on a secondary, if not subliminal, effect and even if Victor is mostly in popcultureacrostic mode here and occasionally repeats himself (\"What the fuck is up, chico man?/ I'm Rico Suave, ya tu sabe/ Jewish Eddie Murphy in your barbershop/ Jewish Mel Gibson/ Black Tintin\" is an example of his doing both), failing to listen closely is a disservice to yourself. Kool A.D. is rarely offpoint during these 21 tracks, and I'll leave it to listeners to pick out their own personal gems the initial recognizing of the connections made is really where a lot of the thrill is with 51.   It's certainly good to hear Kool A.D. in his zone for an extended period of time again, but the revelation of 51 is producer Amaze 88, who's featured on eight tracks. He's definitely a revivalist and his grooves aren't particularly rare even beyond the easily ID'd Supremes samples, I imagine he spent a good deal of 2004 listening to The Pretty Toney Album and Madvillainy. But these are beats that Kool A.D. sounds fantastic over, and he's far more amenable to the warm and fleshy soul here than the metalonmetal abrasiveness of Relax. No matter how dusty his fingers got searching for his material, Amaze lets everything sound alive and airy, with jumpy drum fills and falsetto cooing adding color to A.D.'s lackadaisical monotone.  There's an impressive roster here Trackademics, Mike Finito, and Young L in particular but any time you hear something that stands out for its enthusiastic take on preDonuts undiesoul, you can accurately guess Amaze 88 was on the beat. While his fiveminute instrumental intro initially comes off like an unnecessary hurdle to hearing Kool A.D. drop one quotable after another on \"Electrum\" and \"La Pinata\", after a full listen, you see why he earned it in the first place. It's the most consistently listenable thing out of the Greedhead camp since Sit Down, Man probably because it's the most effortlessly fun since Shut Up, Dude. More and more, it seems easy to isolate the combative Relax as Das Racist using their highestprofile release to play against their strengths and prove some sort of point you notice immediately just how much laughter and camaraderie there is on this thing. Lest you think their divergent mixtapes are indicative of an interpersonal schism, they've sounded as good as ever on the same track as of late, and that holds true on \"A Different World\". Like Heems' grittier and grimmer Nehru Jackets tape from earlier this year, 51 gets deeper into its creator's hometown roots as something of a factfinding mission Kool A.D. sums up his bicoastal credentials over the slowcoasting \"Oooh\", shrugging, \"My bad I slept through the session yesterday/ But yo you gotta admit, tho that's hella Bay/ Moved to New York cause sometimes you gotta get away.\"  Reverse the itinerary, and that about describes 51. "}