{"label":" Captured Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17737/homepage_large.2bc0b46a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ned Raggett","artist":"Cleaners From Venus","title":"Reissues","text":" The album art for these rereleases by UK stalwarts the Cleaners from Venus reproduces the covers of the first three early 1980s cassetteonly efforts released by core figure Martin Newell and his sole bandmate during that time, Lol Elliott. They're almost almost an inversion of the perceived Instagram model for photographs: instead of artificially aging the now, it's the past blown up and made precise, the gaps in the ink strokes made readily apparent along with the clear signs of where further coloring stopped. For any cassette release from that time that's received a retrospective celebration, whether via Messthetics, Minimal Wave, or something else again, that feeling always seems to hang heavy over the end result, at once strange and slightly humorous, like it snuck into something bigger by accident.  Doubtless Newell, long settled into a continuing career of poet, essayist, and musician as a kind of acrosstheThames cousin of the admittedly more scabrous Billy Childish, feels like that would be perfectly appropriate. As the liner notes describe, it wasn't that Newell and Elliott didn't want to keep their work hidden from the world but they probably didn't expect that efforts initially dubbed at home a few at a time would ever have more than a fleeting attention paid to them by similarly minded souls. Considering how immediate so much on these three albums are, though and, quite simply, how fun they often sound, regardless of lyrical intent at points it's almost hard to think they wouldn't have found some wider audience one way or another. In retrospect, though, what's clear even from the start of Blow Away Your Troubles' \"Swinging London\" is how perfectly positioned the Cleaners' sound, or even more crucially their overall aesthetic was, in terms of a break between past and future. No measurable listening audience in 1981 beyond the DIY underground would have expected anything to sound like this did, with a mix of rough edges, distanced vocals, definite hooks, and unexpected mixing choices, plus interjections and diversions that harkened back to the Bonzo Dog DooDah Band and \"The Goon Show\" among other sources. (Not to mention songs that fully embrace those routes \"Alien\", with its recurrent dialogues between human and outerspace visitor, is one of the most ridiculous things around.) It's theoretically new wave if you squint, but not the major label or even most indie label kind. Of course, as the doublevinyl Blow Away Your Troubles, originally released in 1981, rapidly establishes, it wasn't about obscurantism for its own sake it's a stretch to say that it would be obvious in later years that Andy Partridge would end up producing Newell based on the evidence of songs like \"A Blue Wave\" or the pianoandmetronomepaced \"Wivenhoe Bells\" telling of small incidents in a small town. But in its weird way Newell arrived first where XTC would end up, an implied tension having relaxed to allow strange humor, political unease, and breezy rather than frenetic melodies and choruses to set a new course. A song like \"Modern TV\", a kind of relativeacrossthewater of Black Flag's \"TV Party\", is all about serenely catchy surfderived choruses and distant keyboards, while a sense of something epic and mournful is all over \"Marilyn on a Train\", achieving a kind of casual grandeur on its verses in particular that any number of postpunk dreamers would probably have loved had they heard it. Even something like \"A Minimal Animal\", an attempt to tackle reggae via several kind of distances down to stretchedout and echoed vocals and the utter pisstake \"So This is Modern Jazz, Is It?\" more like a bizarre scatsinging attempt from a long dead lounge all works perfectly in context. On Any Normal Monday, released in early 1982, found the Cleaners in slightly changed circumstances, its liner notes talking about Newell's acquiring a fourtrack machine and Elliott's increasing personal attention elsewhere. It's not quite the Newell solo show yet (especially considering that he put out both a standalone tape and an archival one preCleaners with the Stray Trolleys soon thereafter), but things are a little clearer, a touch crisper, and maybe inevitably a touch less frenetic, though a newer version of \"Marilyn on a Train\" retains its elegant sweep. Admittedly songs like \"European War\" aren't meant to be giddy regardless, but the humor of \"Be an Idiot Popstar\" seems a touch less goony in all senses of the word.  By the time of Midnight Cleaners, which also came out in 1982, Elliott's appearances were even more sporadic and the genteel TVtheme feeling of \"This Rainy Decade\" heralds something that was increasingly Newell's own particular flag of convenience. Hearing a bit of winning guest saxophone as it first appears in the extended introduction to \"Corridor of Dreams\" seems strangely monumental in context, even if it was only a year since the duo's debut effort. But if songs like \"Only a Shadow\" and \"Time in Vain\" are more polished and straightforward powerpop efforts with a crisp, slightly thin sound and steady drumming as opposed to the wiggier songs that helped inaugurate the band to start with, there's always the slightly cryptic spoken word, sax, and beat mix of the title track and the shimmering rush of \"Factory Boy\" in contrast. Meanwhile, a new version of \"Wivenhoe Bells\", with bells, phone samples, and children's voices added to the energetic flow of the arrangement, nicely squares nottoodistant past and present. Newell's later efforts as the Cleaners from Venus and in other ventures would continue to explore the possibilities of home pop/rock recording, much as other figures worldwide as Chris Knox and the stalwart R. Stevie Moore would, though the resultant flood that's followed has almost overwhelmed that past to a large degree. It's nice to see this tip of the hat back via these reissues, though, an acknowledgement that it came from somewhere and from someone who followed his own inspired logic toward an end result with the tools to hand. "}