{"label":" Bark and Hiss","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17728/homepage_large.02dfcaa5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Trouble Books","title":"Concatenating Fields","text":" If you're familiar with Akron, Ohio's Trouble Books, there's a good chance that it's thanks in part to Trouble Books and Mark McGuire, last year's collaborative LP that found Keith Freund and Linda Lejsovka enlisting the titular guitar experimentalist and Emeralds member to bounce ideas off of. That album turned out pretty terrifically, with two likeminded parties intertwining their sounds to create something both unified and representative of their respective strong suits. It also helped that it was an awfully pretty record. But with Concatenating Fields, the pair has decided to strike out on their own, unabated by a third wheel. Just knowing that McGuire wouldn't be present felt like an automatic strike against the album, seeing what kindred spirits they ended up being. Instead, Trouble Books just so happen to be a singular act, and the lack of collaboration (though it should be mentioned that Tusco Terror pitch in on a track) fosters a more intimate feel. Though McGuire's presence is felt in swirling electronic blips and bubbles and melancholic guitar tones, Trouble Books' own warmth and heady concepts are able to flourish, unencumbered. For example, there's the album's title, as well as Freund's own mention of abstract geometrical visual artists serving as inspiration. \"But I don't know, it's not supposed to be super conceptual or anything,\" he adds. \"Just a cool album of nighttime grass thoughts.\" For someone who struggled with the basic definition of \"concatenation,\" I think the latter description suits just fine. \"Grass thoughts\" makes for a nice double entendre, and despite a more pointed focus on the electronic aspect of Trouble Books' music, Concatenating Fields is a surprisingly organic sounding record, as if it just sprouted up in the garden overnight. Synthetic cicada whirs abound, as mechanized lightning bugs blink back and forth at each other. It's a perfect album for the season, with bursts of warmth and color giving way to dark washes of rainy dissonance, both of which feel equally nourishing. Tracks like twoparter \"Aloft/SeeThrough III\" seem to capture this almost effortlessly, inviting you to tuck yourself inside of them. But as much as Concatenating Fields could be considered a mood record, there is also a refined focus on making honesttogoodness minimalist pop tracks, like highlight \"Lurk Underneath\". Lejsovka's sleepystoned vocals (which are more successful than Freund's similarlyminded vocal approach) help reinforce the overarching feeling of loneliness and peacefulness, demonstrating how these two emotions have more in common than we often recognize. Freund and Lejsovka are a married couple, something you could probably pick up on having no previous knowledge of the project. It feels like a secret language is being spoken, as guitars playfully nudge up against each other, while at the same time ambient sounds and loops coexist quietly together. Trouble Books have another kindred spirit in Windy & Carl, their Michigan neighbors to the North. That married couple's latest record, We Will Always Be, focused largely on tumult, but Concatenating Fields feel oppositely blissful. There is a similar voyeuristic quality to it, equally as intimate but also endearing, a testament to shared space that feels tailor made for quiet bedrooms at daybreak and private patches of backyard at sundown. Suffice it to say, this is music you could totally make out to. Which isn't to say that this is a record that you can't take with you or call your own. In fact, it practically begs that you do. It has a pleasantly lost quality to it, evidenced by the lovely (and aptly titled) \"Cocooning\", which features some Shieldsian guitar drone that Sofia Coppola would kill to get her hands on. Despite being able to conjure images of flora and fauna with ease, this is music that would work just as well accompanying walks through unfamiliar cities or drunken beach stumbles. It's one of the beauties of music, in that it can become many different thing to many different people, all depending on where you are and who you're with. And with continued successes on the level of Concatenating Fields, there's no saying the same can't be said for Trouble Books. "}