{"label":" Sacred Bones","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17738/homepage_large.2d7b5898.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Led Er Est","title":"The Diver","text":" The biggest problem with being attached to a scene is breaking out of it in an attempt to assert your own identity. New Yorkers Led Er Est released their debut album Dust on Common on Wierd in 2009, and were firmly bedded down in the scene spawned by that label. They talked enthusiastically to the Quietus around that time, highlighting how the weekly parties Wierd threw in New York brought together a tightly cloistered group of people who were obsessing over the cold wave/minimal wave revival. Led Er Est have since moved on, inking a deal with the increasingly influential Sacred Bones, perhaps in an attempt to greater fulfill the barefaced pop ambitions they displayed on tracks like the standout \"Port Isabel\" from Dust on Common. That song sounds like a hit from an alternate universe, with its precisely woven structure and hotwired charge of electronics when the chorus lands. It's the type of track that buzzes with aspiration, aching with a longing for the wider audience it deserves.  Parts of The Diver get tangled up in Led Er Est's disposition for proficient pop, but it's mostly steered into darker terrain due to a tragedy that befell singer Samuel Kklovenhoof during its construction. \"A lot of the lyrics are a bit bleak,\" he admitted in an interview earlier this year, after revealing the album was partially inspired by the sudden death of his sister in a car accident. So this isn't the moment when the members of Led Er Est break the cold wave chains that bind them; instead, it feels like a rehash of many of the ideas developed on their debut record. There's nothing here that matches the bold leap of faith fellow synth travelers Cold Cave demanded of their audience with \"The Great Pan is Dead\", but it's unlikely Led Er Est would ever attempt something so brash. They operate in a dingy kind of halflight, obsessed with wringing genuine emotion from the decrepit electronics and occasional bursts of guitar at their disposal. The Diver dips in and out of two distinct moods. On tracks like \"The Diver\" and \"Agua Fuerte\" there's a palpable sense of drama, with Kklovenhoof veering close to the kind of low rent tumult Marc Almond appropriated at his peak. The instrumentals \"Bladiator\" and \"Sanetta\" continue that theme, launching full pelt into Ballardian technofear, causing all kinds of Cold War paranoia to come to mind. The other mood lightens the picture just a touch, allowing Kklovenhoof to flex the strain in his voice over the sheetlike electronics of \"Kaiyo Maru\" and \"Divided Parallel\". The latter contains hints of the pop band Led Er Est can't fully allow themselves to be yet, even working in a Peter Hookesque undertow that bounces off Kklovenhoof's yearning vocal. But the desire to meddle takes them down a few uneven paths. The punk howl that punctures \"Animal Smear\" and \"La Lluvia y Memoria\" is an unwelcome addendum, coming off as an attempt to force change rather than naturally work it into the album's shifting tones. This record throws Led Er Est into a holding pattern. It doesn't advance much on their debut and, like that record, it only intermittently allows their latent promise to creep to the fore. Despite the label change they're a band that hasn't managed to cast aside the baggage of the scene from which they've sprung, and maybe they're perfectly happy down there, divining a mix of agitation and affection from archaic electronics. There's still a nagging sense that they're dressed in borrowed clothes, which are being tailored to fit the continued series of Minimal Wave compilations. Arguably most truly great music comes from a mixture of inspiration and thievery, but at present the balance is tipped a little too far toward the latter for this band. And that's a shame, because on tracks like \"Divided Parallel\", Kklovenhoof shows off his aptitude for a type of pop that's far warmer and fuller than the material he's sourcing, momentarily tipping Led Er Est out of the scenester bracket in which they're currently lodged. "}