{"label":" Knitting Factory / Strut","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17733/homepage_large.68d460e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Fela Kuti","title":"Live in Detroit 1986","text":" When he rolled into Detroit's historic Fox Theater in November, 1986, Fela Kuti had been out of prison less than a year. He never should have been in prison in the first place; he'd been jailed in 1984 by the government of coup leader MajorGeneral Muhammadu Buhari on trumpedup currency charges. Fela was an outspoken opponent of Buhari, as he had been of Nigeria's other coupinstalled dictators before, and his imprisonment was an attempt to silence him. It backfired. Amnesty International launched a worldwide campaign for Fela's release, and then Buhari himself was overthrown by another coup, this one led by Ibrahim Babangida. Babangida pardoned Fela and actually brought Kuti's older brother, Beko, into his administration as Health Minister. Fela opens the concert captured on Live in Detroit 1986 with a short monologue that directly references his wrongful imprisonment. \"In my country,\" he says, \"Things happen just like that…You go your own way, mind your own business, next thing I know I'm in prison, man, just like that.\" It's part of a nicely rhythmic buildup to the song \"Just Like That\", a song that continues the litany of arbitrary ills that Fela laments can befall an average Nigerian (he generalizes it to all of Africa, too), wrapping them in recollections of Nigeria's devastating 19671970 Civil War. This version of \"Just Like That\" is half an hour long, which makes it by some distance the shortest workout on this set, which was taped by Bob Teagan at the Fox and is just now seeing release. The set is only four songs long, but it sprawls for nearly two and a half hours spread over three discs. Honestly, it could have fit on two discs without changing the running order, so I'm not sure why there are three. Fela's last band, Egypt 80, was a pretty different animal from Africa 70, which is the band most people are familiar with from its funky, forceful, and relatively compact masterpieces \"Zombie\", \"Water No Get Enemy\", \"Expensive Shit\", and \"Roforofo Fight\", among others. Egypt 80 emphasized jazz over funk, for one thing, and indulged in long, spacy jams built around hypnotic grooves. The performance flows very freely through the four songs, each of which is introduced with a pointed, and usually pretty funny, monologue from Fela, whose facility with sarcasm was just about unparalleled in his day. Kuti engages his audience, teaching them short Yoruban phrases for callandresponse passages (and admonishing them to pronounce Yoruban words like Africans \"We Africans talk with our whole mouths\"), and these sections of long tracks make for good contrasts with the rhythm section's coolly funky vamping and the lead instrumentalists' winding solos. It is a mostly great show, though not all dynamite. \"Confusion Break Bones\" wanders through one section so bizarrely discordant that it almost sounds like each instrument in the rhythm section is playing a different song at the same tempo, but it's a few minutes out of 40, and works in its own kind of freaky way. One of the show's highlights comes near its end, as \"Beast of No Nation\" thumps out of a big, fullband crescendo and settles on this amazing, bassled rhythm that's so compelling on its own no one bothers to play anything over it. It gets the audience, already obviously engaged and even familiar with some of the material, really pumped. Listening to it off a very wellrecorded audience tape is of course different from being there, and as a listening experience, this show is perhaps best taken a disc at a time. Still, whether heard whole or in pieces, it captures one of Fela's less appreciated phases and finds him still brimming with piss and vinegar two trying decades into his crusading career. "}