{"label":" Paper Bag / Dummy","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17731/homepage_large.8eebc8e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"CFCF","title":"Exercises EP","text":" Earlier this year, Virgin/EMI released A Victim of Stars, a twodisc compilation by former Japan frontman David Sylvian. The set includes \"Forbidden Colours\", the mannered ambientpop singer's pianoled 1983 collaboration with former Yellow Magic Orchestra member Ryuichi Sakamoto. The song was the theme for the film Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence, and after watching Sakamoto work on the score, Sylvian was quoted as marveling at how the Japanese composer tried to create \"a sense of place, a landscape in the mind of the listener.\" The refined, pianodriven torch song bears on Montreal producer Mike Silver's quietly compelling new EP as CFCF in more than one significant way. Exercises consists of eight minimalist, keyboardbased tracks, all but one of them instrumental, with Silver citing Sakamoto alongside 20thcentury composers Philip Glass and David Borden as inspirations. The lone song with vocals, \"Exercise #5 (September)\", is actually an expansive reinterpretation of the opening track on Sylvian's gorgeous, Sakamotoarranged 1987 album, Secrets of the Beehive. And although CFCF has progressed at a staggering rate over the past five years, mental landscapes have always been this project's specialty. The geography of Exercises is chilly, spacious, and oddly out of time. Where CFCF's only proper fulllength to date, 2009's increasingly vital Continent, conjured up the neon glow of a 1980s Michael Mann soundtrack, and 2010's RVNGissued The River EP explicitly sought to evoke the Peruvian jungle of Werner Herzog's 1982 film Fitzcarraldo, this time around Silver has been comparing his music to the kind of blocky concrete structures that sprang up throughout the 1960s such as New Hampshire's Phillips Exeter Academy Library, which is depicted on the artwork.  There's a prematureruinlike quality to brutalist colossuses like Boston's City Hall or Washington, D.C.'s J. Edgar Hoover Building,  and it's this combination of imposing austerity and weathered familiarity that Silver seizes upon to make his current landscape hospitable. The organictoned keyboards here are familiar from CFCF's pianohousetinged 2011 \"Cometrue\" 12\", but Exercises mostly forgoes beats, letting those concentric patterns of melody build on each other meditatively, ornamented lightly by fuzzy glints of synth. The postJamie xx bedroomdisco grooves of \"Exercise #2 (School)\" and \"Exercise #8 (Change)\" mix up Silver's template just enough. Exercises' \"September\" cover nearly quadruples the length of Sylvian's sparsely poetic original, transforming the genteel piano ballad into billowing, understated synthpop. \"We say that we're in love/ While secretly wishing for rain,\" Silver sings, his calm, reassuring voice much more out in front here than on Continent's snowblind Fleetwood Mac cover.  It's a deeply evocative track with potential crossover appeal, and finding it tucked away in the midst of a disc of mostly melancholy contemplations only makes it feel more special. Much as SylvianSakamoto's exaggerated artificiality can be more poignant and, ultimately, no less sincere than traditional displays of earnestness, so the pianorecital functionality of these selfdescribed \"exercises\" belies the EP's very pop emotional wallop. By stretching out into classical and kosmischeinformed keyboard selections, CFCF has reached a place where his next options are almost limitless.  "}