{"label":" Wichita","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17736/homepage_large.d5e2e814.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"The Cribs","title":"In the Belly of the Brazen Bull","text":" In the rare event you catch someone mourning the slow death of major labels, it's usually due to its presumed effect on the \"career artist\" the Springsteen, the Dylan, the Neil Young, slow starters who'd never have fulfilled their destiny without the proper executive patience and financial resources. And yet, for all its meatgrinder stereotypes, UK's \"major indie\" realm has produced Foals, Friendly Fires, the Horrors, Bombay Bicycle Club, and the Cribs as proof that you don't have to be a Hall of Famer to follow a bungled debut with a bizarre and interesting career arc these days. In 2004, the Cribs were teens cashing in on the postFranz Ferdinand, postpostStrokes gold rush; since then, Johnny Marr joined and then quit their band, Lee Ranaldo spit some spoken word on their third album, and Alex Kapranos, Nick Launay, and Edwyn Collins can all list \"the Cribs\" in their production credits. If the terms \"Louis XIV\" or \"the Dead 60s\" mean anything to you, you'll admit that's a pretty good return on an investment all things considered.  On their fifth LP, the group's pluralnoun band name is about the only remnant of the Cribs mid2000s roots: In the Belly of the Brazen Bull goes fullblown Buzz Bin. Hey, sometimes Brits have a good track record with this kind of thing: Yuck made one of 2011's strongest debuts and Blur decided on their fifth album they wanted to be Pavement, too. Of course, the Cribs aren't sensitive, artsy souls like those two and it actually works to the advantage of Belly; perhaps it's the result of spending their adult lives on a major's dime, but this record is fueled by a naïve belief that radio hits are achievable and can be strongarmed. Otherwise, how do you explain having both Dave Fridmann and Steve Albini on production, when anyone who's heard both The Soft Bulletin and Rid of Me knows that only makes sense as some sort of buddy cop stunt casting? Their commitment to creating an accurate period piece is really something else, though. One of the tracks recorded by Albini is called \"ChiTown\", which explicitly namedrops Logan Square while implicitly recalling the badly missed alt torchbearers Oxford Collapse. The guitars on \"Glitters Like Gold\" have edges, but they're frayed and distorted, not angular and finicky. Ryan Jarman still sings in a head voice, but it's projected from his palate rather than his nasal cavity and even amidst the trickedout, ultradistorted production of \"Glitters Like Gold\" and \"Confident Man\", he sounds a heck of a lot like tourmate Ben Gibbard. The halftime, xylophonetinkling bridge of \"Jaded Youth\" is pretty much a verbatim quote from Weezer's \"The Good Life\". Look, the Cribs are still the same guys who told Glastonbury that British indie was a bigger problem than global warming this was probably in the works longer than any of us realize.  Fortunately, the Cribs write better hooks than Clevel revivalists like Tribes, and if guitarbased music is still your source of shameless pop, you'll probably enjoy In the Belly more than most records that actually aspire for art. Plus, the titles! They thought of everything! \"Come on, Be a NoOne\" isn't much of a song so much as two and a half minutes of killing time between a ridiculous chorus confidently flopping itself down at the altar of MTV; it hardly matters that the verses don't really go anywhere since you could drag a beached whale with that hook. \"Jaded Youth\" similarly offers a pitchperfect slacker sentiment (\"If I went back to school?/ Would I feel cool?\") within an insistent melody perfect for the drivetime commute after halfassing it at the office. Likewise, the highly unbalanced dynamics of \"Uptight\" and \"Anna\" give Jarman the necessary boost to just miss the big high note that every chorus inevitably leads to. None of it's new, but how many consistently good songs have to be strung together before you entertain the idea that a record might actually be great? It's a moot point since the Cribs undermine themselves by unintentionally sticking to the format of so many of the 90s records it recalls. Without much an idea of where the Cribs themselves personally fit into all of this, when the tempos die down and the hooks start to slacken, without the $17 investment in a physical copy, it's a lot tougher to find a reason to give Side B the attention the Cribs might expect out of you. After the ruthless efficiency of \"ChiTown\", they start getting fidgety with their effects pedals (\"Back to the Bolthole\") and \"I Should Have Helped\" is pretty much the least memorable song on In the Belly because it's the only one with an acoustic guitar. Even if its 14 tracks only clock in at around 40 minutes, it's pretty easy to feel like this mercurial band got what they wanted out of the deal in the first 30. Fortunately, the strength of \"Glitters Like Gold\" and \"Come on, Be a NoOne\" overrule any sort of questions as to whether Belly is part of some sort of trajectory, a passing fancy, a dead end, or any kind of indication as to whether even the Cribs think they're capable of greatness.  Odds are, the Cribs will be on something different by their next album and they'll make a couple of hot songs that'll fit onto a Greatest Hits that's nicely taking shape. Hey, you can't make one of those without being a \"career artist,\" right? "}