{"label":" Southern Lord","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17745/homepage_large.faeaf0eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Wolfbrigade","title":"Damned","text":" Old punks never die they either grow up, or fade away. Some throw in the towel, abandon their youthful ideals and Poison Idea backpatches, cover up their \"No Gods/No Masters\" tattoos, and buy in. Others follow a different path, one that sometimes leads them right back on home. Happily enough, the latter case is becoming more and more common, with gratifying results. The recent rash of reunions and influx of unexpected new material from crusty old warriors like Amebix, Hellbastard, Antisect, Doom, and now Wolfbrigade have rattled the collective crust scene, proving both welcome and divisive. Some would have preferred to leave the static safety of their record collections alone, but unfortunately for them, some of these old dogs have got a few tricks left. Rob \"The Baron\" Miller, the vocalist/bassist of English crust legends Amebix, paused his swordsmithing forge long enough to record Sonic Mass, and painted a picture of what Amebix looks like in 2011 (apparently, there's a lot of Killing Joke involved). UK anarchopunk Pete Lyons of Antisect turned away from his upright day job as a recording engineer to take the stage with his band once more. The merry miscreants of England's Hellbastard have been touring and recording their arses off, ripping crust across the globe, and now, after a slight hiatus, Swedish institution Wolfbrigade have returned with a vicious new album and, one may hope, a new lease on life. Southern Lord's recent crustpunk fetish has struck again, as the nowvenerable American label brought the pack on board for their first new album since 2008's Comalive.  Metallic crust is the order of the day, and has been the band's bread and butter since they came snarling into life in 1995 under the original moniker Wolfpack. Not much has changed in the past 17 years, save for a cleaner, slightly more accessible production (accessible in a \"doesn't sound like it was recorded live in a squat basement in 1983\" kind of way, that is) and a few outoftheordinary flourishes. The guitar tone is perfect burly, metallic, clangy. Like countrymen Disfear, Driller Killer, and Anti Cimex, Wolfbrigade know how to keep it coming fast and deadly, and they have little time for progressive nonsense or grandiose concepts. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. From the first second on, Damned lunges for the jugular, kicking into \"Feed the Flames\" and speeding through 11 more tracks in under 35 minutes. Songs hover around the two to threeminute mark, cramming the perfect blend of old Swedish kängpunk, anarchocrust, chunky Stockholm death metal, and, of course, Motörhead into short, purposeful blasts. The only real wild card here is \"Ride the Steel\", a startlingly melodic number that starts out dark and brooding, building into the expected dbeaten frenzy, but then changes things up halfway through with an instrumental melodic break lifted straight out of the Gothenburg songbook. It's all very recent Disfear (lend an ear to \"Get It Off\" and you'll see what I mean). Who got their epic melodeath parts mixed up in my crust? Though a bit unexpected, the genrebending departure works. Tracks like \"From Beyond\", \"Peace of Mind\", and the Motörheadbaiting \"Catch 22\" keep up the melodic edge, but without as much of the gloom. Happily, Wolfbrigade seem content to have kept the experimental moments to a minimum, using them as accents rather than uncomfortable focuses. The old boys know what they're doing, and they know how to do it well. Damned is another worthy addition to their rocksolid catalog, and will surely make a more than welcome addition to any metalpunk's record pile. Now if only we can get them to knock off this \"not playing live\" thing. "}