{"label":" Muti Music","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17742/homepage_large.904caf49.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Filastine","title":"Loot","text":" Dubstep may have conquered the world, but at what cost? It began as a Londoncentric exploration of bass, but like most victims of globalization, any local identity has been slowly bled out to make it palatable to a worldwide audience. That focus on visceral and universal lowend thrills may have made for some good dumb pop tunes, but it also strips away the vital stamp that comes from an invested audience with ties to a community. This blanding in the name of branding isn't specific to dubstep, of course. It's just that baile funk and reggaeton and soca and all the other idiosyncratic communitybased tweaks to beatsandbass never impacted heartland America enough to be so ruthlessly exploited. Not that this has stopped many underground beatheads from plundering them, sometimes with honorable intentions and sometimes not. One thing that makes Filastine's Loot so good is that it presents a vision of worldwide bass culture that acknowledges both the importance of context and the problematic and positive ways global connectivity changes things by bringing farflung sounds together. It's not an academic record. Filastine understands the visceral impact of this stuff, even as the overall mood of Loot can get pretty laidback. But it's clear he's thought hard about how to both honor and mutate music that's not necessarily \"his.\" It's the inverse of Diplo's contextfree mash of whatever regional sounds have currently caught his ear, those squeaky clean thrill rides around a spotless global amusement park. Loot is more like the everyone'sanimmigrant visions of city life that cyberpunk once presented, outsiders and insiders thrown together, an ongoing experiment in technology and tradition finding new ways to inhabit the same space, glittering and futuristic but with plenty of ineradicable human grit, learning, ingenuity. Like those polyglot scifi visions of culturemixing, and maybe like the better parts of our own world now, Loot doesn't smooth away those rough and personalized edges from individual cultures into a palatable mush of clichés that'll go down as easy in Dubai as Dubuque. Instead, Filastine revels in the edges, the way some blur together and some never will, as evidence of the jigsaw quality of modern living, urban and otherwise. In any big city, all this stuff does exist in one space, pockets of fierce traditionalism and a technologyenabled feeling of placelessness, different worlds webbed together as much by wires as oneonone interaction. Loot also feels like the work of someone who's actually traveled to, rather than simply dropped in and downloaded from, what writer/musician Matt \"Woebot\" Ingram has called the \"shanty house\" circuit, groups of producers and players far outside of the Western entertainment industry, who mix the traditional sounds of their region with the seemingly postgeographic dance sounds that swept the planet after rave and hiphop culture went viral. One tune here is a mix of wildly shuffling electronic rhythms that you can't peg to one location and (possibly) processed brass instruments that sound as much like mournful Ethiopian jazz as the nagging synthoompah hooks from reggaeton. Filastine calls it \"Shanty Tones\", with what you have to assume is equal parts respect and knowing cheekiness. Because like Filastine, those \"shanty house\" artists share both an intense interest in localism and the same access to worldwide grooves we all enjoy through our very telephones these days. And so while you can hardly call Loot a dubstep record, it plays throughout with dubstep's form and sonics, whether it's \"Colony Collapse\" looking back to the grim caverns of bass of the original Forward>> crew or \"Skirmish\" losing itself in the current vogue for video game madness. It's also not a \"Jamaican record\" or a \"Middle Eastern record\" or a \"Latin American record,\" though it bears influences from visits to (or infatuations with) sounds from those wildly varied and impossibletosumup regions. Filastine knows the long, sad string melody on \"Sidi Bouzid\" is beautiful enough to be played straight, as tribute to the country where he first heard such music or homage to those who taught it to him. But maybe that would simply be flexing his learning, rather than staying true to Loot's overall project. So soon enough he introduces a gurgling, lurching computer groove into this analog and ancientsounding tune, and it's the third invented world he creates out of these two distinct sounds that takes \"Sidi Bouzid\" somewhere unexpected, and maybe more gripping than either would have been on their own. Filastine has clearly taken the time to learn what makes his sources tick rather than slapping awkward \"ethnic\" samples over boughtbytheyard grooves. But he's never so reverent that he refuses to inject any of his own personality into the mix, which I take to be a drummer's a sensitivity to making looped rhythms dance in offkilter ways, the mark of someone who knows his way around a physical kit but also grew up in a world reshaped by rap, dancehall, et al. Maybe I'm wrong to single out one element of this equally borrowed and invented brew as the \"personal\" one, but there's a recurring hiphop bump that acts as anchor on Loot, one that lopes more like Jay Dee than baps like NYC. It's a beat that might be the audible American contribution to this crosscultural mixandmash. But it's still the mix, rather than the personal stamp, that drives Loot. It's a mix that's political in the lowkey and nondogmatic way of someone open to new experience in a world everhostile to difference. Someone less interested in colonizing \"exotic\" sounds for profit as simply sharing what's moved him, making no claims of ownership on a unique culture while acknowledging that in 2012 everyone has the opportunity to draw on sounds from just about every corner of the planet. Everything is jumbled into a glorious whole that somehow finds room for parts that were never designed to fit together. And if these dozens of inputs seem both disorienting and natural when they come together, it might just be that, in Loot's vision of the world, where international connection is not just possible but impossible to ignore, all this musical information crush feels hospitable rather than chaotic because that's just how we live now. "}