{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17751/homepage_large.6c09e306.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Lee Hazlewood","title":"The LHI Years: Singles, Nudes, & Backsides","text":"    Lee Hazlewood is hard to categorize. With his eerie baritone and ear for trippily reverbed vocals, he mingled orchestrated pop and Laurel Canyon folk, a bit like Serge Gainsbourg singing country and western or Leonard Cohen gone bubblegum. He was never quite as overtly sexual as his French contemporary nor as overtly Biblical as his Canadian peer, but possessed an equally singular vision of pop music, which, 40 years after his heyday, makes his songs immediately distinctive and identifiable. But Hazlewood's solo career was overshadowed by his collaborations, first with Duane Eddy and most famously with Nancy Sinatra. He wrote and produced her biggest hits \"These Boots Are Made for Walkin'\" and \"Some Velvet Morning\" and even recorded a few duets with her, like Porter & Dolly for the Sunset Strip. During the mid1960s, their partnership made her a star in her own right, although she would always be known as Frank's daughter. After they parted ways, Hazlewood released a string of comparatively minor hits on his own LHI Records, and while he never achieved the same level of success he enjoyed with Nancy, he never lost his weirdo ambitions. Assessing his legacy is just as difficult as pinning down his sound. Hazlewood remains a curio, with neither the influence that Phil Spector continues to assert nor the cultish cachet of someone like Van Dyke Parks. Instead, he's just one of those oddballs floating around the pop periphery, with a surprisingly large catalogue that's more dark corners than known quantities. That makes him a perfect subject for a compilation like Light in the Attic's Nudes, Singles & Backsides, which culls from three years of his career and only scratches the surface of his repertoire. Compiling seventeen tracks from his lesserknown LHI output in the late 1960s and early 1970s, it shows him working well within the Nancy/Lee concept, often using a female counterpart to offset his own vocals. Much like Gainsbourg, he envisions pop songs less as monologues and more as dialogues between men and women. Nudes is heavy on duets, and while there's no Nancy here, there is AnnMargret, still so full of blustery femininity on \"Sleep in the Grass\"; Nina Lizell, embodying European mystique on \"Leather and Lace\"; and Suzi Jane Hokom, barely distinguishing herself on \"Nobody Like You\". And there's Hazlewood himself, presiding over everything with that disarmingly low voice of his, so lonesome in this cavernous production. The man had a sense of humor check out that album cover but didn't always let it show in the songs, which tend to be straightfaced and selfserious. That's not necessarily a dig, especially when \"Victims of the Night\" evokes a surreal Golden State desert landscape and \"Califia (Stone Rider)\" shifts tempo into an exquisitely blissedout coda. A meditation on lost love that verges on the suicidal, \"The Bed\" proves he could write a sadsack country song with the best of them, and he could invest a line like \"I've learned to pay the paperboy on time\" with immense melancholy. But occasionally his lyrics jump on a premise and ride it like a rodeo bull. \"If It's Monday Morning,\" which sounds like a response song to Kris Kristofferson's \"Sunday Morning Coming Down\", repeats itself rigidly, turning a potentially intriguing hook into a tedious refrain. Most rewardingly and remarkably, Nudes, Singles & Backsides manages to present a fairly detailed portrait of an artist who found himself suddenly back on the pop music margins. But he continued to conceive of new shapes for pop songs, and his struggle to adequately and accurately express himself through the music of his time illuminates this collection and compensates for the almost comically grave spokenword passages and the occasional clunky line. This compilation won't raise Hazlewood beyond his cult status, but maybe that's where his songs are best heard.   "}