{"label":" Parlophone","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17755/homepage_large.4f80fffc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"Damon Albarn","title":"Dr Dee","text":" There was a very specific moment in Damon Albarn's career when he decided to think of England for a living. The year was 1992, and Blur were touring the U.S. in support of their underperforming debut, Leisure, a relatively tepid guitarpop record of vague lyrics and the occasional explosive hook. Missing his homeland and repulsed by the selfserious, omnipresent grunge sound, he returned to England two months later with the intention of making music that was proudly, flagrantly British. It proved to be a good look for the band: with the release of their next two albums, the solid Modern Life is Rubbish in 1993 and the sparkling Parklife  in 1994, Blur transformed their image from lateera Madchester tagalongs to pop's most incisive inquisitors of the British way of life. This was in great part thanks to Albarn's characterdriven lyrics: Rubbish's noname 20thCentury Boy and 20thCentury Girl and Parklife's Tracy Jacks (a sad sack civil servant who cracks one Tuesday morning and bulldozes his own house) warned of what could happen without the promise of tomorrows, the thrill of spontaneity, and a belief in a rather optimistic strain of anarchy it was not off base to call magic. Two decades later, Albarn is exploring the idea of Britshness through a character and a form that's decidedly less modern. A departure from his most recent work with Gorillaz and the afroinspired Rocket Juice & the Moon, Dr Dee is the stately, melancholy soundtrack to the opera Albarn wrote for theater director Rufus Norris. Dr Dee had a brief preliminary run in Manchester last year and will run again during the Cultural Olympiad this summer, but in the meantime Albarn never one for a second of downtime holed up with the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra and recorded the tracks for what's being nominally presented as a solo album. As far as British antiheroes go, John Dee is a good deal more spectacular and complex than, say, Tracy Jacks. Dee was a brilliant, controversial visionary of the Elizabethan era, a gifted mathematician with an unerring belief in magic. Throughout his long life he fell in and out of favor with the court; at one point during Mary's reign he was arrested for charting the queen's horoscopes, while three years later Queen Elizabeth appointed him her scientific advisor and asked him to choose her coronation date based on her star chart. A firm believer in the occult who late in his life made attempts to communicate with angels, Dee's life was a combination of prestige, failure, and misunderstandings, and the tone of Dr Dee makes it clear that Albarn finds luxuriant depths of melancholy in his character. On the lush, downcast \"The Moon Exalted\", he is accompanied by the porcupinebristle of a harpsicord as he sings, \"It's a powerful thing/ The morning I awoke to find you'd gone/ The moon was rising higher than the sun.\" In recent years, Albarn's retired the bratty stacatto that characterized his Britpop hits, and his voice has taken on this wonderfully droopy, leadballoon quality. With nary an upbeat moment over the soundtrack's 50minute run, Dr Dee makes use of this stylistic evolution; it's without a doubt the biggest bummer of a record he's made since 13. Like the large majority of Dr Dee  listeners, I have not seen the opera. It garnered pretty good reviews over its first run, but the most common criticism seemed to be that it was a tad impenetrable; viewers who went expecting a clear, linear narrative found Albarn's collection of impressionistic tableaus hard to follow. And if those were the complaints of people who actually had a visual element to guide them, you can imagine that listening blindly to the soundtrack is not exactly a cake walk, comprehensionwise. Still, there's some enjoyment in getting lost in Albarn's gloomy melodies and the occasional immersive scene (the fluttering voices of \"Coronation\" in particular), if you are content to let go your hopes of any kind of narrative mastery. To me, oddly enough, the closest pop analog to Dr Dee is a (much more sedate) Frog Eyes record the frenzied, King Learinspired pantomime Paul's Tomb: A Triumph is never entirely subsumed by the fact that I have no idea what the hell is going on. I could say the same for most of Dr Dee. But therein lies the problem: Presented apart from its visual component, what is the Dr Dee soundtrack, exactly? There are pop elements to Albarn's compositions here, but they won't be quite enough to hold the attention spans of his less patient fans. And on the other side of the coin, Albarn's popstar background keeps Dr Dee from scaling more operatic heights. In the end, the Dr Dee soundtrack is a deeply felt but difficult to love entry into Albarn's entirely singular discography. A Renaissance man to a point that occasionally confounds his less adventurous listeners, it should be no great mystery why Albarn finds Dee who was, after all, the man who coined the term \"Britannia\" in the first place a worthy subject. "}