{"label":" Circus Company","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17752/homepage_large.dcf0d9f8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Dave Aju","title":"Heirlooms","text":" When a parent passes away, one of the most difficult things to deal with is the process of going through their possessions, trying to maintain some tangible connection with the person you've just lost. Marc Barrite, who records minimal yet lively tech house under the alias Dave Aju, had an additional angle of his own to deal with: His late father Joe Barrite was a musician himself, one who had spent decades gigging around San Francisco playing jazz trumpet, and at some point they'd brainstormed the idea of doing a collaboration that never happened in his father's lifetime. Among all the things that Marc doubtlessly had to sift through in the aftermath, the recordings his father left behind must have been the weightiest. To make up for the missed opportunity for a fatherson collaboration, Marc spent threeplus years digging through his father's archived work in preparation for Heirlooms, coming to terms with it, synthesizing it, reshaping it and making his own statement out of it. The catch is that, for most listeners, his father's reported influence is easier to pinpoint than the original sound of his actual music. He was reportedly an aficionado of fusion and free jazz, an interest that's been passed down and subtly integrated into Aju's eclectic strain of house. But there aren't any widely available, commercially released Joe Barrite recordings to refer to in order to gain a contextual foothold here, so any real insight into the source of Marc's father's impact is tangential. Aju also has a wider set of personal influences to work with, and you can hear them all put to good use over the course of Heirlooms. An early 18 ½minute span consisting of tracks \"All Together Now\" and \"To Be Free\" lets him sink deep into hypnotic house that feels less minimalist the more it stretches out. The momentum is maintained by Aju's tendency to drop George Clintonian adlibs into the latter track's lyrics refrains echo the liberated thoughts of circaOsmium rarity \"Fantasy is Reality\" (\"freedom is free of the need to be free\"), or play off Shakespeare with cosmically sloppy wordplay (\"to sneeze or snot to be\"). The funk is more explicit in a later tandem, the rollerdisco bounce of \"Ms. Reposado\" and the 1983via1999 digital boogie of \"Caller #7\". But even in the cuts that hew closer to Detroit and Chicago than Oakland and Minneapolis, like the saxadorned \"Away Away\" and the sophisticated cocktail house of \"You Gotta Know\", there's hints of something loose and freewheeling underpinning that fouronthefloor . Even if this is an album that defies obvious lineage and needs a roadmap to uncover the specific sources from Joe Barrite's archive, there's an inescapable sense of emotional impact here. Even if you don't know the background of the album, there's something about a few of the flourishes that pull heartstrings the increasingly vivid horns that seep through the subtectonic bass downtempo cut \"Until Then\", or the dense rhythmic build, abetted by the Sol Percussion Ensemble, that pushes through the MPBinflected \"Brown & Blue\". And if you do know the background, the first sound you hear on the record faint, faded trumpets mournfully echoing through a misty atmosphere gives the next four minutes of \"Rise\" and the ensuing hour of music a compelling power that peaks with the Rhodesdrizzled delicacy of SoulquariansgoneKompakt closer \"Revealing\". Heirlooms is an album that acts as a eulogy, a wake and an inheritance all at once one man's presence kept alive through the work of his son. But if all you learn about his father is that he raised a kid who's capable of putting out an album like this, that's worth respecting, too. "}