{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17753/homepage_large.78958b91.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Horseback","title":"Half Blood","text":" Here's a record that should not work. Its two main influences frostbitten Scandinavian black metal and rustic U.S. roots music should not combine, let alone gracefully. One is theatrical and expressionistic in its expression of nihilistic rage, almost claustrophobic in its pure form. The other is strippeddown and attempts to get at some ideal of emotional honesty, a sound that's loose and expansive in its evocation of American distances. And yet Horseback managed to intuit some kinship between them. (They also throw in a dose of horrormovie melodrama and experimental suitesinsteadofsongs portentousness, just because it might not be an arty 21stcentury metal album without them.) Instead of clashing, these two distinct modes harmonize on Half Blood into something dark and sweeping, where it all could have wound up a ridiculous failed experiment. Instead we get a whydidn'tanyonethinkofthissooner mix of metal ugliness and heartland beauty, postrock at its most spartan and hard rock at its most outthere. Horseback have been plying this oddballbuteffective hybrid for a couple of years now. Half Blood is simply the strongest argument yet for just how effective it can be. They're still probably the only band in the world that makes a writer want to reference both weirderthanweird blackmetal band Necrofrost (those Tolkein orc vocals) and the lonesome cowboy epics of Calexico (those mournful guitars and weightedbyheartbreak drums). Earlier albums, like 2010's The Invisible Mountain, proved their point with gusto, namely that a band could evoke the sad, wideopen spaces of American roots music while suggesting the screams and riffs of black metal could be equally (and not dissimilarly) affecting. Drunken ballads about losing everything aren't a million miles from drinking blood and wailing about how you wish everything would just stop already. Certain moments on Half Blood suggest a metal band covering Ry Cooder's Paris, Texas score, or maybe a Crazy Horse helmed soundtack to a suppressed Kris Kristofferson film about a guitartoting truck driver in postapocalyptic 1970s America. So when I say \"country\" you should probably know I mean the loose, electrified, booming groove that resulted when hairy dudes with big amps and Bonhamgrade drumming took a shine to Opryapproved stuff. And if most postmetal acts take cues from the already metalindebted dynamics of Mogwai, the early tracks on Half Blood more recall the more clearly American sturmundtwang of Spiderland, if Slint had been as into barband boogie as they were into King Crimson. Other bands have attempted to merge highway romanticism and extreme brutality, of course. The reunited Earth have almost completely transmogrified from an experimental doom act into a bleak roots unit. Lateperiod Neurosis offered oppressive sludge and spacious twang in equal amounts, birthing the whole postmetal thing in the process. And the latest iteration of Swans is kind of the goldstandard for crushing heaviness, blackened blues, and emotional violence, all in one unstable package. But Horseback are the only band that's mined similar territory while risking the potential silliness of extracting corpsepainted wails from their native context of epically grumpy onemanband isolation and plunking them into a world more typically influenced by Merle Haggard, Marshall stacks, and crying in your Wild Turkey. All that said, I don't want to make too much of the \"Hank meets Euronymous\" thing. There are moves Horseback make here like the Omengrade liturgical hooey on \"Inheritance (the Changeling)\" that have no precedent in any context other than metal. (And horror movies, I guess.) And as stunningly wellrealized as some of this stuff is, I can't pretend that the psychedelic excesses of the albumclosing trilogy entirely work, even though excess and song trilogies are both metal staples, so Horseback's reach occasionally exceeding their grasp doesn't sorethumb as much as it might if their big influence were the Ramones. If anything it's kinda inspiring to see guys stretch out, get loose, scramble up the mountain of art, when they could have just driven a uniquetosaytheleast sound into dullness. And as for that signature combo, you still want to ask: How does all that tortured (and affected) monster grunting and groaning not puncture the austere gorgeousness of the lowkey moments and the thunderousness of the climaxes? Maybe it's because and here those with a phobia toward metal vocals will have to take a leap of faith tortured (and affected) monster grunts are no more ridiculous, or any less potentially moving, than indie whispering or canyontroubadour crooning or drunken partydude bellowing. Speaking of Slint, I'm reminded here of Steve Albini's admission that, on his first few listens to Spiderland, he went from being embarrassed by the singing and the lyrics to being deeply moved by them. It might be a stretch to say metalresistant listeners will have a similar reaction to the singing on Half Blood. But it's not out of the realm of possibility. I was certainly moved by the combination, at times, but then I've also been moved by the shrieking renunciation of all human values in Striborg songs. "}