{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17765/homepage_large.f2a07486.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"The Electronic Anthology Project","title":"The Electronic Anthology Project of Dinosaur Jr.","text":" If you happened to have been a fan of both earbleeding indie rockers Dinosaur Jr. and the classic synthpop group Human League in the 1980s, you may agree that their respective frontmen J Mascis and Philip Oakey had little in common aside from ridiculous hairstyles. Mascis sported what exHomestead and current Matador exec Gerard Cosloy called \"huge fuckin'... stickyourfingerinthesockettype hair.\" Oakey, meanwhile, claimed a jetblack halfmane that was nothing short of protoSkrillex. Both did execute vocal styles that were at once melodic and patently bored, and Mascis and Oakey each served as centers of gravity for a certain kind of freak: Mascis attracted noiseniks and exhardcore kids, Oakey the shutin New Romantics. But a hypothetical Venn Diagram would still find few intersecting characteristics of substance. The Electronic Anthology Project of Dinosaur Jr. is a creation of Mascis and Built to Spill bassist Brett Nelson that attempts to diminish the gap, with a collection of nine Dino Jr. synthpop covers, culled mostly from the band's 1987 SST classic, You're Living All Over Me. Within 20 seconds it's evident that Mascis is kidding, as though he'd showed up to the party in an unlikely Halloween costume, and no one but his close friends and followers can truly understand the magnitude of its comedic value.  Much of the joke behind Electronic Anthology Project can be found in the tangible, philosophical clash that has always fallen between technical guitar rock and electronic pop. While Dinosaur used extended guitar heroics for melodic hybrids that mined 1970s classic rock sounds Stones, Sabbath, Creedence, Neil Young, Crazy Horse the early1980s new wave groups like Depeche Mode and Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark were attempting to ward off that tradition's egotism with glittering synthesizers. These groups saw electronic instruments as democratic, punk tools for everyman, playing down the conventional guitarbassdrum format and the necessity of technique. All the while, Mascis was busy jamming complex guitar work and engaging with hardcore as a listener and participant, performing with Dinosaur Jr.'s Lou Barlow in the band Deep Wound until 1984. Considering Electronic Anthology Project doesn't make use of a single guitar, it immediately drops much of what made Dinosaur a visionary altrock group to begin with. The band's defining characteristic has always been its excruciatingly loud execution, for which they were met early on with flying beer bottles and banned from clubs throughout their native Northampton, Mass. It's hard to imagine the clichéd mechanical drums and goofy, plastic synths on EAP building any kind of energy or fury. In 2001 Michael Azerrad wrote that the murk and mystique at play on You're Living All Over Me was \"like a pond one could never see the bottom of\" and so it never got old. But EAP is so surfaceoriented it's good only for a few plays, albeit ones that are entirely essential for devoted Dinosaur fans. The massive swath of noise that introduces the original \"Sludgefest\" here becomes a barrage of cosmic, anxious synths, glitching and whirling from all angles, like a game of laser tag. \"Got to connect with you, girl, before I forget how,\" Mascis pleads; stripped of distortion and rocketfire punk riffage it sounds like a Drake lyric. Indeed, these slick remakes do a fine job of highlighting the devastating emotion in Mascis' mumbled poetry, which now moves each track with newfound resonance. \"Raisans\" is lacking without its molten guitar eruptions or any attempt to compensate for their absence, but it's still a real heartbreaker: \"I'll be hanging where eventually you'll have to be/ I'll just stare and hope you'll care/ It's only everything standing in front of me.\"  A number of the tracks on Electronic Anthology Project come from the loud/quiet backandforth convention that helped Dinosaur draw the map for 1990s alt rock: calm, percolating verses that offer a foil for soaring, melodic choruses. \"Pond Song\" off 1988's Bug reinterprets that dynamic for one of the collection's most entertaining tracks, as Mascis sings, with sunny, wideeyed optimism, \"Pain is a wave, come on let's ride it.\" Less extraordinary are \"The Lung\" and \"Kracked\", whose reimagined wahwah noise just feels like generic videogame filler. Despite the comic relief, the instrumentals feel static. Adding to the comedy here is that the record's three most successful tracks are simply tacked to the end: \"Tarpit\", \"Little Fury Things\", and \"Feel the Pain\". The most tasteful synthpop keeps subtlety and restraint in mind, and those guiding principles help make \"Tarpit\" an enjoyable EAP creation, along with \"Feel the Pain\" from 1994's Without a Sound. \"Pain\" is the only track pulled from Dinosaur's majorlabel, postBarlow days, and its subdued melancholy (\"I feel the pain of everyone/ Then I feel nothing\") suggests that quieter approach could have made the whole of EAP more listenable. Keep this one for your mixtape repertoire. Mascis is a guy with a strange, biting sense of humor that has always quietly shone through the cracks; you may recall that earlier this year he allowed his likeness to become J Mascis: the Bobblehead Doll. Like The Electronic Anthology Project of Built to Spill before it, this record surely could have been improved with a bit more pragmatism, like a colder or more nuanced approach, because Mascis' drawl does suit synthetic sounds quite well. But Electronic Anthology Project is novelty that is more than earned, and if you're a Mascis devotee who can see the world in his warped way, you'll find a place for it. "}