{"label":" Fan Death","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17781/homepage_large.dc4d36ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Aaron Leitko","artist":"Roomrunner","title":"Super Vague EP","text":" Roomrunner love everything about grunge, but they break from Cobain and co. in at least one respect: They don't miss the comfort of feeling sad. The Baltimore quartet led by Denny Bowen, drummer of the recently defunct postpunk trio Double Dagger makes a conscious effort to revive the fuzz and feedbackladen churn of early1990s indie rock, taking the opening riff of Nirvana's \"Negative Creep\" as an urtext and extrapolating all other details from there. But theirs is a more ebullient take on the genre. The fillingrattling raveups stay, but the bad vibes are mostly jettisoned. And the Chris Cornellstyle shirtless heaving, well, that gets left to their alternariffing buddies and Charm City neighbors, Dope Body. Super Vague is Roomrunner's second release, following a selftitled cassette and downloadonly EP that arrived late last year, also on Fan Death. The needle hasn't moved much during the interim. From a sonic standpoint, Super Vague is virtually identical to its predecessor. Dan Frome, who recorded both releases and also plays guitar, has made a careful study of Bleachera production, cranking up the guitars and keeping the lowend frequencies brittle.  But Bowen, who writes the songs and plays the majority of the music on the recordings, has tightened up his approach. On Super Vague, Roomrunner pingpong between their grimy riffs with newly tourhoned panache. The title track careens facefirst into a nest of power chords. \"Undo\" makes maximal use of the loudquietloud dynamic change, pivoting from a thin and detuned guitar riff to fullon noiserock gristle. \"No Wait\" reengineers the band's pounding rhythms and knotty mathrock moves. \"Petrified\" is a blownout rehearsal tape that could have slotted comfortably into the second disc of Sonic Youth's Dirty reissue. More than anything, Bowen knows how to stack up the notes to get the heaviest chords. Major and minor tonalities are irrelevant. Roomrunner wear their grunge debts proudly, even going so far as to spoof an oldschool Sub Pop promo ad to promote their tour behind Super Vague. But the band's take on the 90s is more of a fantasy reboot than a strict recreation. Several elements of their hometown sound have dripped into the mix, from eerily processed vocals to the blurry guitar slop and proggy rhythmic sensibility. Ideas harvested straight from the Pacific Northwest are retrofit with weirder impulses a youth spent cherishing The Colour and the Shape smacking straight into an adulthood spent jamming to U.S. Maple's atonal squiggles. The element that's most noticeably absent from Roomrunner's throwback pallete is rage. Not that it's totally missed. Angst and bitterness were a potent part of grunge, but were often wearying when plied by anybody who wasn't named Kurt Cobain. Besides, Mudhoney had an awesome sense of humor. And in concert Roomrunner destroy. Literally. The band's sets are frequently brought to a close in a fit of vintageamp and drumset torture. At the freaky armwaving height of charismatic church services, sometimes worshippers will jump out of their pews to sprint a few spiritfueled laps around the pulpit. It's kind of a tragedy that this isn't where the band's name comes from (it's actually taken from the Japanese term for \"treadmill\"). But a secular version of this ecstatic freakout moment is more or less Roomrunner's constant destination. Were it 1991, Geffen would be paying attention. "}