{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17773/homepage_large.9f4b88ec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"OFF!","title":"OFF!","text":" So what's Keith Morris angry about this time? In OFF! the 56yearold Black Flag/Circle Jerks founder's latest soapbox he's finally found the three guys every bit as pissed off as he is. And the world's taken notice. It's been at least a year since Anthony \"Scatman\" Kiedis has left the house without conspicuously donning his credgrabbing OFF! cap, and even nerds like us couldn't deny the bluntforce fury of OFF!'s masterful First Four EPs. I doubt very much Keith and company are getting rich off this stuff, nor do I suspect they'd care if they were, but for the first time in a long time, Keith's fronting a band people give a shit about. Even a worldclass curmudgeon like Keith Morris has to feel at least a little vindicated by that. But that kind of hardearned vindication too often leads to complacence, the very thing OFF! set out to smash on those First Four EPs. The band's mighty, metallic hardcore assault has showed no signs of slowing down in the two years since the EPs, and Morris, somewhat miraculously, still seems every bit the bilespewing burnout at the heart of Black Flag's almost 35yearold Nervous Breakdown EP and those early, gnarly Circle Jerks records. When, on First Four EPs highlight \"Upside Down\", Morris sneered, \"wonder why I'm always screaming?\" there was no real need to provide an answer; the stuck pig that was the last decade of the Circle Jerks had finally, mercifully bled out, the economy had gone from bad to worse, and besides, he's Keith Morris, and screaming's just what Keith Morrises do. OFF! their longplaying debut, coming in just shy of the EPs' runtime once again finds Morris venting spleen at anything and everything, but this time out, his targets seem softer and just a little harder to pin down. The thrill of hearing one of the world's great complainers in fullon kvetch mode is far from gone on OFF! But the \"holy SHIT\" surprise of those First Four EPs is somewhat dulled by the nagging feeling that we've heard a lot of this before. True, those EPs didn't so much redraw hardcore's lines as bluntly retrace them. But they're as much Keith's to retrace as anybody's, and after so many years of middling Morris music, retapping that vast reservoir of rage for a quarterhour was more than enough. And any accusations of mere regression were bulldozed by the fracas Morris' fellow lifers Dimitri Coats, Mario Rubalcaba, and Steven McDonald unloaded underneath him. Not that this music's ever especially easy, but the easiest thing these guys could've done to follow up the EPs was repeat themselves. But where those startling EPs seemed to recapture something vital from 1983, OFF!'s breathless pace and Morris' lyrical bloodletting can't help but sound a lot like 2010. OFF! runs a little dirtier than the EPs, every instrument particularly Coats' skingrafting guitar closer in the mix and scuffedup just so. Coats manages to slip a doomy intro or a little halfmeasure solo into a few of these songs, but that alone represents OFF!'s biggest progression from the EPs. Drummer Rubalcaba and bassist McDonald are left with little choice but to floor it; that's a task they're more than up for, but creatively, this still seems to be Coats' and Morris' show, with the rhythm section largely just along for the ride. (Could be why McDonald's Redd Kross are making their first LP in years.) There's only so many ways you can reconfigure the same four pieces in 90second bursts at this speed without repeating yourself, so when \"Borrow and Bomb\" comes on pretty much exactly like the EPs' \"Killing Away\", it's hard to know how upset to get about it. It's almost too easy to critique any hardcore band for their musical conservatism, but the mere existence of those EPs from those guys, in this decade was itself enough of a surprise to make that line of critique seem especially beside the point. Obstinence is everything to a band like OFF!, and \"more of the same,\" in this case, barely brings their total discography past the 30minute mark. Even still, it's surprising how little they've moved the needle the second time around. Most of the praise thrown at the EPs centered around Morris' voice, which recaptured some essential quality that seemed lost in too many years of disinterested flailing with the Jerks. Ironically enough, it's the unchanging nature of Morris' voice that proves OFF!'s biggest sticking point. Like the music, Keith's still long on rage, but short on progression, and that maniacal screamstutter still takes its hard turns in much the same fashion as it did a couple of years back. As with Rubalcaba and McDonald, it's easy to chalk it up to a space issue the breakneck pace doesn't leave him with much time to goof around but the startling novelty of Unfrozen Caveman Morris has all but vanished, and without the shock of rediscovering something long considered lost, you're mostly left with a lot of vitriol to sort through. When, on \"I've Got News For You\", Keith calls out somebody who never \"trudged through sweat and piss\" the way Morris and co. have, his meaning's clear enough, but the target's a little harder to nail down. Is he raging at critics? His old bandmates? Fucking Green Day? Only Keith knows for sure. And the direct blows he does land whether they're against government control or potsmoking buttheads who didn't dig \"Black Thoughts\" fix themselves on fairly easy targets. Clarity, in this case, doesn't always suit him; when, on \"Cracked\", Keith lays into OFF! naysayers for their \"hardcore karaoke retirement home\"style dismissals, the line's smirking selfawareness seems pettier with each pass. With little ambiguity in this music, what's left to the imagination on the mysterious murderorsuicide at the heart of \"Harbor Freeway Blues\" and just what's inside the \"Toxic Box\" ups their replay value considerably. Mostly, Morris is at his best when channeling that fury into powdernosed paranoiac travelogues, like the lurid liquor run of \"Man From Nowhere\", or \"Jet Black Girls\", which finds him in a warehouse, shouting out Darby Crash with a sixer down his pants. As ever, Morris' nihilism takes all comers, but OFF! still seems more of a strapyourselfinandpreparetogetyelledat proposition than the pointed, often selfdirected rage of the EPs. Still, while OFF! may not have the shock of the new (or, at least, the revitalized) on its side, it still gets in, gets angry, and gets moving in a skullcrackingly satisfying fashion. A guy like Morris could make yowling about tort reform gripping, particularly with the paintstripping power of Coats, Rubacala, and McDonald backing him up, and even his lessfocused gnashing still leaves its share of welts. Shouting \"feelings are meant to be hurt!\" along with Morris will never be anything less than a perverse pleasure, never mind what he says (or doesn't say) in between. And, the glorious failure of the Santorum campaign notwithstanding, things are every bit as mortifying out there as we roll into the summer of 2012 as they were a couple of winters back. For all its flaws, OFF! still seems as good an antidote for complacency as almost anything else out there. And as long as Keith Morris has occasion to scream, you oughta listen, and listen good. "}