{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17779/homepage_large.024d8dc5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Squarepusher","title":"Ufabulum","text":" During the first half of his career as IDM troublemaker, Tom Jenkinson became one of the most divisive figures in electronic music, plundering electric jazz and rave music for his own extremist ends, idolized and reviled in seemingly equal amounts. For folks who didn't fall into either camp, who were just looking for futuristic shocks or crazy rhythms, he was one of many artists around the turn of the millennium who seemed to treat dance music like a sciencefiction movie, removing all the pesky plot and character development, until just the wild special effects highlights remained. Ufabulum comes many years and many albums after Squarepusher briefly enjoyed this kind of marginal pop culture recognition. His detractors have since found new things to hate, and his acolytes have weathered the various lessthaneffective shifts in direction that come with following any longrunning artist prone to frustrating whims. Ufabulum is in many ways a return to the angryjazzdroidsrunamok vibe of his earliest stuff, and if people have forgotten (or never known) the whimsicalyetpunishing pleasures of Squarepusher's breakbeat chaos, might it be a good a place to get on board? Yes and no, because it's also exhausting stuff, at least in large doses. This has always been a problem with Squarepusher's music, and Ufabulum is no different. Individual tracks can still induce a \"whoa!\" response from unsuspecting listeners. But at their best and their worst, Squarepusher's albums remind me of what video game fans call \"bullet hell\" games, shooters with an impossible density of enemies swarming at you at all times. Bullet hell games have an intensity that makes them initially mindboggling (how can I process all this?) and quickly frustrating (why am I bothering to try and process all this?). Ditto Squarepusher's longishplayers like Hard Normal Daddy and Big Loada. That's why artists like Squarepusher, despite the refusal of rockstar posturing, were so perfect for that late 90s moment when MTV briefly discovered electronic music, and why their albums remained mostly for the serious fans. It's bracing stuff in three or four minute doses, immediately standing out amidst songs running at pop's usual pace, especially when paired with equally oddball and arresting barrages of imagery. Just like a casual player might play one or two levels of some fiendishly hard game, laughing with delight before hanging up the controller, singles are all most people need when it comes to dense swarms of breaks and zaps. As with those devoted arcade buttonmashers, you're meant to delight in the complexity. If you don't, maybe it's not for you after all. The endless explosions of Squarepusher tracks are similarly startling, at first, especially if you don't usually spend time with music this convoluted and hectic. He wastes no time on Ufabulum, immediately plunging the listener into antic, overlapping streams of chopped jazz snares and bass blurts. When opening track \"4001\" really kicks into gear, with an enveloping cascade of synth played against an almost headbanging drum and bass groove, it takes you back to the thrill and jolt of Jenkinson's earliest productions, where the already unreal speed of jungle was taken to truly inhuman velocities. The nagging worry is still there, though: How much of this am I going to be able to endure before I just get bored? Part of the problem is tempo. Moments of Ufabulum, particularly the middle stretch, are all but impossible for me to remember after a dozen plays. Maybe there are brilliant ideas in the maelstrom, but I was left too numbed to pick them out. That's why it was great to hear Jenkinson try something new in the first third of Ufabulum, like pacing and funk and giving his ideas space to breathe. He immediately slows things down after \"4001\" with \"Unreal Square\", a typically perverse but still groovefriendly take on the halftime funk of dubstep. He can't resist spraygunning that groove with caustic breaks at the very end, but at least the barrage feels more like an honesttogod release of tension for a change. \"Stadium Ice\" is even better, progtronica every bit as overstuffed as anything on Rustie's Glass Swords, but with plenty of Jenkinson's own virtuoso jazzfusioneer stamp. That's a sound he more or less bequeathed to IDM, of course, helping to make an aesthetic like Rustie's possible. \"Stadium Ice\" is as transportive a bit of audio worldbuilding as Jenkinson's ever made, a track full of grand peaks that actually work because they follow relative lulls, sounding like all the best bits of oldschool RPG soundtracks shoehorned into one track. So it's frustrating that Jenkinson ditched this measured grandeur just as quickly. \"Stadium Ice\" hardly lacks that aforementioned \"whoa!\" factor. It's just infinitely friendlier and more replayable than the hyperspeed and assaultive stuff. It's hard to imagine an entire album in this vein wouldn't have been as whoaworthy as Glass Swords itself, not only a brilliant reinvention but maybe Jenkinson's first mustlisten since 1998. Once Ufabulum launches into overdrive again, it's not long before it becomes another forfansonly deal. Worse for those fans, Jenkinson actively seems to be pastiching himself in a few places. \"Drax 2\" and \"303 Scopem Hard\" are deadringers for the industrialstrength distortion and breakbeatsaspsychwarfare he was plumbing on 1997's virulent Vic Acid EP. But somehow they're duller, too, as if Jenkinson knew he was recycling oncevital stuff and couldn't be bothered to work up the appropriate intensity. Even if you're not immediately bummed out by artists replaying former glories, the least they can do is come hard with it, right? "}