{"label":" Instinct","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1645/homepage_large.eb463d4c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Cranes","title":"Future Songs","text":" Once upon a time, in the nottoodistant past, there were a lot of bands that sounded kind of like the Cranes bands whose sound and general aesthetic placed them somewhere between My Bloody Valentine and the Cocteau Twins. And those bands were frequently played at the sort of parties I once imagined I would like to attend, where attractive young artistes with flawless skin hobnobbed under unusual lighting and talked about their conceptual art installations at the local gallery, while taking in considerable amounts of some archaic, yet highly literary drug, like, say, opium. My enthusiasm for such gatherings has dwindled over the years, more or less in direct proportion with my attention span for ethereal pop. However, I suspect that as we speak Futuresongs is soundtracking someone's monologue about the need for wider public support of performance art, as the demystified soul in the corner rolls her eyes and asks: \"Hey, is this the Cranes? Are they even around any more?\" As it happens, the Cranes are still around, and though they've tweaked their sound to keep up with the times, vocalist Ali Shaw still sounds like she's inhaling enough helium to send her spiraling into orbit. The Cranes have also included a handy lyric sheet to counter the claims that Shaw has been speaking in tongues for years. With some imagination, one can follow along with the printed words and almost believe the songs are written in a terrestrial language. Unfortunately, one discovers pretty quickly that without the incomprehensible vocal stylings, the lyrics are trite as shit. You might expect a song titled \"The Maker of Heavenly Trousers\" with its trancelike melody and placid, repetitive crescendos of guitar to offer a little more than, \"I know that I'm gonna find something this time/ 'Cos I just made up my mind.\" Come on, that's a compelling enough title let's have a little elaboration! But the lyrics aren't really the problem. I mean, all apologies, but songwriting doesn't have to be brain surgery. The Cranes started out pretty way back in the early 90s, but with the passing years they've shifted towards more typical alternative pop. Futuresongs sends the Cranes into an odd niche, a more contemporary version of how they sounded in their heyday. If you can imagine a musical scale with Boards of Canada on one end and Mazzy Star on the other, Futuresongs would fit neatly in the middle. It sounds interesting, and in all fairness, Futuresongs does have its moments. By dispensing with a whole lot of traditional instrumentation and beefing up their electronic edge, the Cranes have effectively stopped sounding like a 'band,' and more like a producer/vocalist outfit with occasional loops of guitar. The best tracks are the instrumentals (the blissed out \"Everything For\" and the eerie, stringenhanced Autechrelite of \"In the Reeds\"), and the songs where Shaw's idiosyncratic vocals work more as an instrument than a wouldbe narrative device. Lyrics aside, there's nothing distinctly unappealing or halfassed about this album. It's a smart, dreamy, wellproduced ambient pop record that will likely appeal to aficionados of hipster transcendental meditation, sugarysweet sex scenes in independent films, and, yeah, suburban art parties. It just feels awfully familiar. If the early 90s produced a significant number of bands that sounded like the old Cranes, it's pretty obvious that the last five years have created a regular glut of this stuff. At the end of the day, will the Cranes be the band you remember as the electronic trailblazers of the early 00's? Doubt it. "}