{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17789/homepage_large.734ee5f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Sidi Touré","title":"Köima","text":" Koïma is the second album the Malian folkblues singer Sidi Touré has released on Thrill Jockey, a Chicago label best known for putting out postrock bands like Tortoise and the Sea and Cake throughout the 1990s, and more recently for records by Liturgy and Future Islands. Basically, not Malian folkblues. The label came to Touré through a demo he and his manager sent in because they were fans of Radian, a semiobscure Viennese Thrill Jockey band that hasn't put out an album since 2009. If you're looking for great little stories to encapsulate the hookups facilitated by the globalization of culture and communication, there you go. Touré is from Gao, a city on the Niger River near the southern edge of the Saharan desert, which covers a massive portion of northern Mali. As of this writing, Gao is of particular international interest: At the end of March, it was seized from the Malian government by Tuareg rebels and now serves at the capital of Azawad, the Tuareg state that declared independence from Mali in early April. Touré is currently safe in Bamako, the country's capital, about 700 miles southwest of Gao. None of this may mean anything to you. I convey it only out of reportorial duty and to highlight the strangeness of Touré's context: an artist who broke from his purebred bloodline to pursue guitar, later winning a string of prizes from the Malian government, and even later having his hometown be a focal point of political upheaval that has pushed his country toward serious instability just as he starts to get press and attention from far, far away. If you've never heard Malian blues before, well, there's nothing to compare it to other than Malian blues. Suffice it to say that the harmonic character of the music the \"chords\" will probably sound familiar, but the rhythms and structures won't. Malian blues is typified by lead vocals and melodies that play over rhythmically interwoven lines of guitar with the lilt of a boat rocking on a river. The spacious, heavy quality of American blues is replaced with something more Eastern, a constancy of sound closer to, say, Indian music, and it also makes a lot of use of 6/8 time, which is sort of like a jig or a gallop a contrast to the square 4/4 of its American analog. Touré's last Thrill Jockey album, 2011's Sahel Folk, was recorded in his sister's house in Gao with a string of collaborators. Press holds that he would meet with people, make a pot of tea, decide on a song, chitchat, then break for the afternoon, only to come back the next day and lay it down in a take or two. Koïma, by comparison, is a more structured album, and what it lacks in that illusory spontaneity of the front porch, it makes up for in intensity and focus. Sahel Folk was primarily guitar; Koïma, in contrast, has prominent electric bass, and the scratchy, hypnotic sound of the sokou, a folk violin. It also features vocals by Leïla Ahimidi Gobbi, a woman with a high, squealing voice that cuts through the mix like citrus through fat a perfect contrast to Touré's own tenor, which fits the character of the instruments so snugly it sometimes blends into the background. The arrangements are as subtle as they are detailed, and the result is a little like one of those optical illusions where, in what seems like a static image, the eye perceives weird, fluttering movements. Koïma is a beautiful album, and at times beautiful to the exclusion of anything else. Hearing this music which I'm told is classified as traditionalstyle Songhai folk has to be different for me than for the Malian who might've been raised around stuff like it. Context in this case is a little damning: Is what I'm hearing Bill Callahan or is it Mumford and Sons? No idea, but it's certainly being packaged as authentic. In either case, I doubt it matters: As a Western listener, there's always some enlightening novelty in hearing the blues especially the blues coming from a place currently as fouledup as Mali recast as something so bright, so unapologetically hopeful. "}