{"label":" Dangerbird","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17788/homepage_large.36b5f536.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Silversun Pickups","title":"Neck of the Woods","text":" On my local altrock station, Silversun Pickups' 2006 single \"Lazy Eye\" has rightfully become a playlist staple, and not just because the song fits comfortably alongside the repertoire of certain firstgeneration Lollapalooza veterans known for inflicting violence on large orange fruit. Though it lacks an actual chorus, \"Lazy Eye\" still packs a considerable emotional charge, thanks to the creeping tension between the song's cool precision and frontman Brian Aubert's efforts to destabilize it, through arrhythmic guitar scraping and an increasingly agitated vocal. Though the song's tone is subdued and serious, I always smirk during Aubert's climactic shriek of the line \"everyone's so focused clearly on... such shine,\" as if he were singlehandedly trying to destroy the funinthesun spirit that defines so much Californian pop music. Which is to say: \"Lazy Eye\" remains Silversun Pickups' biggest and best song because it's their most human, imperfect, irrational one. But those endearing qualities have become increasingly difficult to glean from Silversun Pickups these days. The band's third album, Neck of the Woods, picks up where 2009's sophomore release, Swoon, left off, inheriting the task of blowing up Silversun Pickups' hazyheaded pop to more muscular, arenaready proportions. Which is to be expected: This is, after all, a band whose two albums have sold over half a million copies to date combined, so there's a natural inclination to want to keep hitting the back rows even as they move ever further away. But there's an increasing disconnect between ambition and execution: While Neck of the Woods boasts all the hallmarks of a bigbudget, radioready modernrock record including a production credit for Jacknife Lee, a guy who knows a thing or two about polishing up oncescrappy indierock bands for KROQ contention Silversun Pickups have a way of making their most grandiose gestures sound passive and timid. The album's overthetop but underwhelming nature is best summed up by a line from the aforementioned breakthrough single: \"I've been waiting for this moment all my life/ But it's not quite right.\" It doesn't help that Aubert's effete voice lacks the domineering, egomaniacal presence to convincingly command his band's bombast. Even those who have allergic reactions to Billy Corgan or Matt Bellamy's progrock histrionics would never doubt their sense of bravado, but Aubert has the tendency to pull back right when he should be going for broke. Just as the protracted intro of opener \"Skin Graph\" finally yields to a satisfyingly gnarly chorus at the threeminute mark, Aubert loses himself in a buzzkilling, ambient detour; when he returns for one final charge through the chorus, the feeling is less one of shock and surprise than \"what the fuck took you so long?\" This kind of structural overtinkering is endemic on Neck of the Woods, an album that Silversun Pickups claim was inspired by horror movies; if so, they're the kind of horror movies where you wait a long time for twists you can see coming a mile away, with the visceral impact all but diluted by a glossy CGI sheen. The album places a premium on foreboding synth atmospherics, dramatic pauses, extended buildups and breakdowns, and 1998vintage rocktronic beats and, in doing so, stretches midtempo song after midtempo song to the fiveminute mark and beyond, forsaking the sort of peaksandvalleys sequencing necessary for maintaining dramatic momentum over the course of an hourlong sprawl. And the clinical, vacuumsealed production renders even the most Rock Bandworthy moments (the machinegunned fills on \"Out of Breath\", the Zeppelinesque chorus riff of \"GunShy Sunshine\", the robogrunge thrust of \"Mean Spirits\") with a mechanized sterility that keeps the explosions contained. Neck of the Woods does yield at least one bonafide direct hit to ensure future Weenie Roast bookings: \"Bloody Mary (Nerve Endings)\", a gleaming, synthswathed power ballad that's of a piece with the maximal digisymphonies of M83's Hurry Up, We're Dreaming. But even as Silversun Pickups continue to dutily follow the Smashing Pumpkins' career trajectory by trading in shoegaze haze for Adoreinspired electropop, perhaps the most 90s thing about them is that, even in the age of downloading and streaming, they still make albums as if they need to take full advantage of a CD's storage capacity and give the Sam Goody customer their $22.98's worth. Appropriately enough, many of Aubert's lyrics here bristle with restlessness, fatigue and disappointment \"I'm still waiting,\" \"I'm already bored,\" \"What am I aiming towards/ A fight that never ends,\" \"Nothing's coming\" all of which serve to make Neck of the Woods a concept album about the feeling you get listening to Neck of the Woods. "}