{"label":" Text","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17786/homepage_large.b4da0418.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hari Ashurst","artist":"One Little Plane","title":"Into the Trees","text":" The constant flux of musical trends can be tiring. Leaping from one hot sound to the next hotter sound seems to be the M.O. for a number of today's musicians. On the other side of that spectrum sits One Little Plane aka Kathryn Bint, a songwriter content to leave a fouryear gap between her debut LP, Until, and this new one, Into the Trees. There are no tricks or gimmicks to her music either; instead Bint crafts a world of gentle, meditative motion out of simple melodies. This record, like her first, comes with a production job from Kieran Hebden. While sonically his influence is understated, it's still worth thinking about Hebden as a fingerpointer. Songs like \"She Was Out in the Water\", featuring Radiohead's Colin Greenwood on bass, are built brickbybrick in a similarly circular way to Four Tet's earliest work. Around the time of Pause in 2001, Hebden was more likely to sample wind chimes than drop a subbass; his music felt pretty folky and zenlike. One Little Plane shares that ethos, and it helps make this record a more curious and psychedelic affair than it easily might have been. \"Hold You Down\", the other track with Greenwood on bass, is the highlight, a song that builds from a rudimentary start into something more humid and pretty. There's even a bit of Martina TopleyBird's husky drawl lurking at the fringes of Bint's vocal as gentle percussion and harmonies give the song a lush swirl. Despite a couple of sticky lyrics, \"Bloom\" stands out too: a soft synth making for intriguingly minimal company to Bint's vocal as she sings, \"We will stay here, until we bloom.\" It's pretty, visualsounding music. Most of the time Into the Trees holds a soft, pretty orbit, so when Bint flays that vibe on \"I Know\", it comes across as striking and intense. Beneath a droning backdrop she sings a warning of, \"There is a road that I will not go down/ If you want me then stand your ground,\" before later exploding the song with fuzzy guitars. It's a moment of teethbaring on a record that otherwise feels content to keep you at arm's length. Bint's mostly relaxed and easy approach teases out enough pleasant moments on Into the Trees but rarely offers a resolution. The weakest moments feel embryonic and too wellworn: Songs like \"It's Alright\" and \"Simmer Down Simmer\" mine overly familiar chord progressions and emotions that manipulate rather than coax. For the most part, though, Into the Trees is a curious and enjoyable listen. It also feels like a record happy to exist outside of anything else, and if nothing else that resolve makes One Little Plane an intriguing prospect. "}