{"label":" Barsuk","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17782/homepage_large.b8eb627e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Ramona Falls","title":"Prophet","text":" Just about every song on Prophet, the second album from exMenomena multiinstrumentalist Brent Knopf's Ramona Falls, borrows its title from one natural phenomenon or another: \"Spore\", \"Bodies of Water\", \"Helium\", that sort of thing. Knopf, the guy who introduced the Digital Looping Recorder to Menomena, has a longstanding fascination with the tensions between the natural and the mechanical. The intricately arranged album is a good showcase for Knopf's cutandpaste perfectionism; Prophet, like 2009's Intuit, is vast and symphonic one moment, stark and intimate the next. As his music grows grander, though, Knopf's human side gets a little lost amidst all the elaborate knobandwire work. It's next to impossible to suss out exactly who's doing what in Menomena's hypercollaborative, everywhichway songs, an approach Knopf's carried over to the more pastoral, less proggy Ramona Falls. Intuit found Knopf calling on friends across the indie rock spectrum, offering little indication as to which bleep or rumble came from where; Prophet's guest list is pared down considerably, but the new effect's still the same. No matter who's doing the playing, this is Knopf's show; he's the one wrangling all this swirling stuff into songs, his voice in the center of it all. As on Intuit, the sound of Prophet is exceptionally fussy but sumptuous, all these widescreen vistas of richly detailed sound. Any music this intricately arranged is at constant risk of bloodlessness, but Knopf's got a flair for juxtaposition that plays the synthetic off the organic in such a way that feels very much alive. But all the effort Knopf's expended on instrumental complexities often seems to crowd out the person at the center of it all; as he himself says on opener \"Bodies of Water\", \"I have to, have to, have to let go of total control,\" and too often, the sonic intricacies overwhelm Knopf's voice. Knopf does plenty of singing here, but it's rare that he lets his voice serve as the focal point of the songs. On Intuit, the expansive arrangements and Knopf's intimate vocals worked in tandem, but here, the balance has shifted, and Prophet's musical enormity, gorgeous as it is, overshadows for Knopf's alternately delicate and disjointed lyrics. Almost any hint of vulnerability Knopf spikes with a kind of detached scifi or yet another instrumental detour. \"What I'd give if you'd feel my love,\" he delivers with just the right kind of tenderness, but what that heartonsleeve sentiment has to do with \"Archimedes Plutonium\" is anybody's guess. And whatever's meant by that initial hint of sweetness seems, over time, to almost dislodge itself from the song. Throughout Prophet, he seems to be suggesting just how small one person is in this big old universe of ours. But Knopf's taken his own egowhittling a few steps too far, as though he'd really rather let the dramatic sonics do the talking for him. There just seems a little too much distance between Knopf and the emotions he's trying to convey galaxies' worth, in the case of \"Spore\" and the effect proves weirdly unaffecting, almost alien. Prophet's widescreen music is wonderful to listen to; it's just hard to really feel. "}