{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17801/homepage_large.053aea55.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Sigur Rós","title":"Valtari","text":" Let's start with an understatement: things tend to move quite slowly in the world of Sigur Rós. This is true whether we're talking about the glacial pace of their songs, the glacial pace at which they release them, or their artistic progression. In the 13 years since Ágætis Byrjun became the first and possibly only postrock crossover record, Sigur Rós have edged closer to actual pop while still maintaining their singular place amongst many consumers' record collections: The band's stamp of approval is pretty much the only way a lot of people are dealing with 10minute songs or an invented language. It's a tremendous example of a band that's managed to own its lane while making it incrementally wider, and their consistently positive reception gives you the idea that the only way Sigur Rós could make a bad record is if they made one that was wholly unrecognizable as their own. Well, you won't confuse Valtari as being the work of anyone else, if only because their sixth studio album so flattens and narrows Sigur Rós' aesthetic to the point where the title scans as selfparody. \"Valtari\" is Icelandic for \"steamroller,\" by the way. \"It sounds corny, but when I listen to it, it puts images in my head. I feel like I'm walking up a mountain alone.\" This is how bassist Georg Holm recently described Valtari to Rolling Stone, and I find that to be interesting on two fronts, the initial being there's a good chance you had no idea that Sigur Rós had a bassist, let alone what his name is. All too ironic that it's perhaps the only time Holm makes any sort of statement on Valtari, which unfortunately gives weight to the unfair perception of Sigur Rós as Jónsi and anonymous conjurers. It's a disappointment and a missed opportunity, since after the release of 2005's vibrant Takk still their most diverse and consistently accessible record the most interesting music Sigur Rós have made is relative to their implementation of rhythm, culminating with 2008's clodhopping Animal Collective homage \"Gobbledigook\" and Jónsi's hypercolored solo album, Go. It's debatable whether the rhythm section was jettisoned in the composition stages or whether they're simply rendered immobile under thick layers of orchestral amber. Either way, Valtari forgoes the promising lean toward pop songcraft of their recent LPs and the volcanic dynamics of their earliest material with only pretty vacancy as a replacement. About two minutes into Valtari, Jónsi's vocals rise out of a brackish pool of strings, choirs, and piano to tease out a melody. About two minutes later, there's a small rupture of distorted bowed guitars and organ, and two minutes after that, it glides to a serene denouement. That describes opener \"Êg Anda\" and also basically more than half of Valtari, leaving you to fashion highlights out of relativity. The positive side of Valtari's fouryear incubation period is evidenced by \"Varúð\", the way it effortlessly combines waterlogged piano chords and a brassy fanfare. Yet while the cymbalbashing crescendo it builds toward is the most viscerally rewarding thing here, anyone familiar with the past decade of Sigur Rós has heard it dozens of times. Which brings me back to \"it puts images in my head.\" The evocative nature of Sigur Rós' music has always been a major draw, but I think the more telling part of Holm's quote is \"I feel like I'm walking up a mountain.\" Indeed, due to Sigur Rós' unwillingness to exert any sort of artistic will on the listener, Valtari feels like work, a trudge, asking for too much by way of demanding nothing concrete. Even the controversially blank () had staunch conviction in its commitment to supernatural ethereality not to mention subtly impressive melodies and some of their most unsettling peaks. If you're familiar only with Sigur Rós' studio albums, you might hear Valtari as a maximalist version of () which would essentially negate the entire point of (). Too loud to truly pass for ambient music, yet too invertebrate to accommodate visceral pleasures, Valtari is most often simply there, the passage of time distinguished only by the occasional shift in texture. The drum sounds that close out \"Rembihnûtur\" are a nice touch and establish a possible connection between Sigur Rós and the likes of Balam Acab, as do the gamelanlike, detuned bells of the title track. But if you get to that point, Jónsi all but disappears on the final two tracks, and consequently, Valtari's tether to sounding like Sigur Rós rather than indistinct audio Calgon. I suppose it's always worth remembering to review what you got as opposed to what you wanted, and as Jónsi explained to Q magazine, \"the music kind of just rolls over you… in a good way.\" So it can all sound incredibly grumpy to take issue with Valtari for staying in cruise control, no different from criticizing a day at the beach for being too hot. Well, if we're gonna continue down the path of that metaphor for Sigur Rós' longestgestating record, it's more like the first beach day of the year and you find out you can't go surfing, can't throw a Frisbee, can't start a bonfire, can't even go in the ocean. The problem isn't that Valtari aspires to beauty, even if it's a commonplace, celestial understanding of it. Sigur Rós have proven they can make indelible music that's pretty and unpredictable, pretty and melodic, pretty and unnerving, pretty and inspiring. Valtari wants to be pretty and that's it.  "}