{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17796/homepage_large.0eb5f81e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Laura Snapes","artist":"Zulu Winter","title":"Language","text":" There's a fundamental disconnect between the band that London's Zulu Winter seem to be and the music that appears on their debut album. From looking at their blog and reading interviews with Will Daunt, Iain Lock, Dom Millard, Henry Walton, and Guy Henderson, they seem to be erudite guys with interests in offbeat cultural pies: forming amid a culture of Can and Beefheart wannabes at Liverpool University, citing FC Judd, Bradford Cox, Tracey Warr, Bulgakov, and Georges Méliès as influences and interests. The fivepiece had nearly all the material for their debut album written and recorded before taking it to labels, giving the impression that they'd been locked away making what could be their first avant masterpiece. Of course, highbrow, obscure interests don't necessarily translate into whatever art or job you choose to occupy yourself with, but it feels like a red herring that Zulu Winter's debut album brims with the kind of mooing, wan electroindie montage music typical of Bombay Bicycle Club and Two Door Cinema Club, the Maccabees, and the faintest shadow of Foals' less compelling material. Doused in interminable glimmering drones and wimpers, spending 45 minutes in its company feels like being smothered inside a snowglobe. Language seems boiled up in a lab as antidote for those Sunday afternoons at the Reading and Leeds festivals when burger bloat is taking its toll, and the idea of going to see Friendly Fires seems just that bit too strenuous; it's a universal tongue intimating the cosy bosom of warm synthesizers, dreamy noodling, and softly cawed vocals. \"Let's Move Back to Front\" trembles, glimmers, and has a good old go at a cowbell dingdong, bearing a herky jerky scat chorus that suggests embarking on this limp kinesis after promising the chance to \"dance 'til you don't know your name\" earlier in the verse. It's perfectly serviceable and not particularly offensive until the final minute, where they tack on some needless birdsong and vapid drones to no discernible end. They try and get fancy at the end of \"Never Leave\", too, topping off a litany of chanted \"non non non\"s that make up the backbone of the song with the robotic incantation \"we should be swimming, swimming,\" seemingly a sort of illconceived Beach Boys/Animal Collective tribute. The appealingly dank quasiminimal techno hum at the end of the song actually called \"We Should Be Swimming\" undulates quite beautifully, but it bears no relation to the previous few minutes. These moments feel like confused, halfgrabs at experimentalism on an album that's sure to fill rafters and please younger listeners with its effortlessly epic reach, a suggestion that Zulu Winter are trying to deter the kind of audience that they know will come.  While much of the record is content to bumble along at a homely hum, there are a couple of moments that stick their heads above the parapet. \"Words That I Wield\" gains a sense of drama from its absolute sparseness in comparison to the thick blanketing production elsewhere; its stinging guitar pierces the mist, making like Wild Beasts' Smother unwillingly coerced into a nightclub situation. And although firing into a widescreen emotional gamut is destined to burst one or two euphoric heart piñatas, closer \"People That You Must Remember\" is the only song here that feels believably moving, a sense of loss shivering through its icy, itchy drift, and singer Daunt's vocal tugging with an emotion more complex than \"please do sing along.\" However Zulu Winter choose to proceed, one thing they have to learn is that you can't stick a twominute drone onto the end of a song that sounds like Two Door Cinema Club and call it experimental. Whilst homogeneity will undoubtedly serve them well enough, there are tantalizing signs here of a more innovative future. "}