{"label":" Hotflush","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17797/homepage_large.769f784e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Jimmy Edgar","title":"Majenta","text":" The sound of bass music is constantly mutating, and the UK label Hotflush has certainly played a part in that over the last nine months. While many of its recent singles still toy with big grooves, crisp hihats, and deep rumble, its releases have taken on a sonic guise that's straightforwardly melodic and, at times, pinkhued and romantic. Last year saw the release of Braille and Machinedrum's selftitled debut LP as Sepalcure, an adventurous record that explored sensual depths while appropriating sonic signifiers from assorted dance subgenres; this year has brought the openhearted second album from label head Paul Rose's Scuba project, Personality, as well as Scottish producer Beaumont's Never Love Me EP, which threw lush Italo synths into the mix and came adorned with the kind of artwork that Drive fetishists could get airbrushed onto the back of a leather jacket. It makes sense, then, that Detroit producer and fashion photographer Jimmy Edgar is releasing his latest record, Majenta, on Rose's label, even if the teamup itself wasn't premeditated. (Edgar says this move came about after a dinner conversation with Rose and Sepalcure's Travis Stewart and Praveen Sharma.) As an under30 with a career spanning more than a decade, Edgar's music strays just about as far from bass music proper as you can get. He works with a variety of sounds, from the type of techno that's closely associated with his hometown, to seedy, dank electro, to windowfogging, pitchedvocal R&B. Dance music by definition is made to move bodies, and so is Edgar's only, in his case, in the type of way that could get someone slapped with lewdness charges. That is to say, Jimmy Edgar is insatiable. He loves talking about sex, singing about sex, referencing sex. This is a man whose most notable track in his eight years with Warp was titled \"I Wanna Be Your STD\", and who called his last album XXX (only after he decided to change it from its working title, Deeper). Majenta is similarly soaked in lowart sleaze; just scanning the tracklist (\"Sex Drive\", \"Touch Yr Bodytime\", \"Hrt Real Good\", \"In Deep\") is enough to make you question whether you really want to hear what the Majenta cut \"This One's for the Children\" is all about. (Not to worry: it's just your runofthemill \"Up with people, down with the system\" slice of Detroit techno.) Suffice to say, Edgar really overdoes it on the sex stuff, moreso than on the other albums he's put out in the last decade. It's not that dance music can't be carnal, but that everyone's idea of what's \"sexy\" isn't the same, so presenting a specific expression of sexuality as a universal representation is a dangerous tightrope walk. At his core, Jimmy Edgar is a hippie, if a bit of a ridiculoussounding one (he claims in the album's press release that he's recently \"made galactic contact with the community\"), but the only way Majenta could bring people together is if they were convening to nervously giggle at Edgar's various tryingtoohard vocal turns, which come across as erotic as reading Fifty Shades of Gray on the subway. Musically, Majenta initially seems better than XXX, only because the lack of uniformity that plagued the latter LP means that the former's standouts the warm, skipping vocal house of \"Let Yrself Be\", electrobass neartwins \"Indigo Mechanix (3D)\", and \"In Deep\" stand out that much more. Unfortunately, more than mediocre tracks or throaty sexual goofs, what does in Majenta is its scattershot nature. There's no flow to the way the album's sequenced, to the point where it seems purely arbitrary. Furthermore, Edgar seems so concerned about skipping between genres that he neglects to refine any one specific sound; even the strongest cuts rarely rise above \"nice try.\" Edgar is clearly aiming for some sort of climax spiritually, musically, sexually but by the time Majenta sputters to a close, all he's left with is a mess on his hands. "}