{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17804/homepage_large.04bf1ab5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Saint Etienne","title":"Words and Music by Saint Etienne","text":" The way pop interacts with our lives is as ripe for interrogation as ever. Late last year, Drake wrote a blog post criticizing Tumblr, at a time when acts from Dirty Beaches to Grimes could be seen as building specific tastes (David Lynch, Kpop) into their aesthetic identities almost as overtly as if they were reblogging a YouTube video. The gap between how records sound and the personal experiences they can bring to mind is also a crucial theme of one of my favorite albums of 2012, Europe, by Allo Darlin'. This idea of pop as personal has been integral to Saint Etienne for more than two decades. With a pair of former music journalists in their ranks (Bob Stanley has written for Pitchfork, Uncut, and more), the London trio can't help but comment on pop even as they're brilliantly making it, from early singles like 1992's Lovin' Spoonfulinvoking \"Join Our Club\" to the Red Hot Chili Peppersdissing penultimate track on 2005's Tales From Turnpike House. The group's first proper album since then, Words and Music by Saint Etienne, is a sterling affirmation that relating pop music to your life doesn't have to grow more difficult as you get older. It's not as if Saint Etienne have been standing still all these years. When not serving in a yearlong artists' residency at London's Royal Festival Hall, putting together a documentary called This Is Tomorrow, or working on an upcoming book (Stanley's Do You Believe in Magic?), these pop savants have also reissued their back catalog, put out a highly recommended compilation (London Conversations, which in some formats included two new songs), and tapped producer Richard X to remix their entire 1991 debut album as Foxbase Beta, among too many other projects to list. All this looking back appears to have reminded Saint Etienne what they loved about pop in the first place. The perennially chic voice of singer Sarah Cracknell can be heard paying tribute to the wonders of portable listening (\"I've Got Your Music\"), of embracing a loved one while the right song plays (\"DJ\"), and even, hilariously, of chatting on a popmusic blog that happens to be run by Pitchfork contributor Tom Ewing (\"Popular\"). The execution is mostly impeccable, with crystalclear yet memorably idiosyncratic lyrics, and slick electropop production from the murderer's row of Richard X, Ian Catt, Nick Coler, and Tim Powell. \"I will surrender to the sound/ And look at all the kids around,\" Cracknell sings on advance single \"Tonight\", a soaring, wonderfully vivid encapsulation of the giddiness you feel before seeing a favorite band. This use of \"kids\" is crucial, because it's a word that often pops up in songs intended for actual kids, but it also captures the truth of going to shows and festivals where the crowds seem to get younger every year. Saint Etienne have grappled with maturity before, particularly in the stylish returntothenightlife of 2002's Finisterre, but Words and Music excels by realizing that there's no inherent conflict between youthful enthusiasm and adult perspective, if you put them together the right way. Part of what's appealing about Words and Music is the way it maintains a contemporary Top 40 sheen without lowering itself to pandering, but it isn't all uptempo dancepop. \"Heading for the Fair\" is the type of pianohouse comedown that isn't so far off from the best of the Rapture's latest album, while \"Record Collector\" continues Saint Etienne's increasing use of harmonies for a sumptuously doowop a cappella vocal that could nestle in a playlist beside Drake's \"The Ride\" or Jens Lekman's \"Kanske Är Jag Kär I Dig\". The airier moments, such as the waltzing Eurofolk of \"I Threw It All Away\" or the Bacharachlush \"Answer Song\", aren't quite as immediate as the dancefloororiented numbers, but they nicely balance the album. It would be easy to go on and on about every cut on the record, which gracefully clears the admittedly ambiguous bar to become Saint Etienne's best LP since 1994 masterpiece Tiger Bay. But the group's Stanley, Cracknell, and Pete Wiggs, always their own sharpest critics, sum up Words and Music most eloquently on the two tracks that bookend it. The finale, like \"Teenage Winter\" seven years ago, uses spokenword narration to describe a life lived with music, only this time in an optimistic sense. But it's the opening \"Over the Border\", with its loving reflections on youthful music fandom, that perfectly distills the album's theme: \"I used 'Top of the Pops' as my world atlas.\" Past Saint Etienne albums have paid loving homage to London. This time, as the album art reinforces, they've wisely realized their real home town is global pop culture. In other words, they're your neighbors. "}