{"label":" Wierd","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17816/homepage_large.db5f4947.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"RØSENKØPF","title":"RØSENKØPF","text":" The radioactive noiserock on RØSENKØPF's debut album draws heavily from goth and industrial, two musical and cultural subsets that put as much stock into image and costumery as hiphop and metal, but to my knowledge aren't subject to the same pissing contests about authenticity. Who knows why. Perhaps it's because the cartoonish nihilism of each is so inherently in conflict with functioning in actual life, that it's silly to hold someone to the standard of \"keeping it real.\" Or maybe they attract fans with a greater capacity to understand and appreciate camp. The latter possibility appears more relevant to keep in mind while negotiating the Brooklyn trio's emboldened attitude towards extremism on every front; it's easier to hit the kill switch if you don't have to explain your intentions after the fact. RØSENKØPF roughly translates to \"redhead\" in English, but isn't the perverted Teutonic spelling about 12 billion times more intimidating? That part's easy. But those shrieking blackmetal vocals and goofy radio speeches? Their postNeuromancer dress code? All part of the package deal, I suppose. Selective extremity would be kind of a copout. The last of those is actually fairly crucial to understanding RØSENKØPF's party at ground zero; the music indeed operates on some kind of postapocalyptic junkyard level, the band acting as scavengers utilizing some of the past two decade's best intros as energydense fossil fuels. By my count, there's Massive Attack's \"Angel\", \"The Great Pan Is Dead\", \"We Want War\", \"Chop Suey!\", and, of course, \"Enter Sandman\". This is a wholly unscientific process, so you'll pick something else out of the scrapheap, but it's worth noting that all of those songs are taken from intricate and expensively produced records. Even though it culls from scarequote scary templates ranging from Wax Trax! to Tri Angle, RØSENKØPF remains a penetrable and accessible listen throughout, rhythmic music that hits with brute muscle rather than harsh abrasion. Attribute it to a musicality that inverts typical roles: The guitars and bass all but abandon melody, either churning violently or functioning as looms for sheets of white noise, subservient to the everpresent and hyperactive percussion. But it's all wellproportioned and slick, like hearing Brooklyn noise allstars Gang Gang Dance, Liars, or Black Dice in their earliest incarnations but given their current production budgets. If never truly danceable, it's an intensely physical experience due to the heavy and righteous emphasis on the drums. For the most part, there's a clatter of unusually pitched cymbals and snare shrapnel at the forefront, but this is probably the first time I've heard rock music using 808s as a lead instrument, and it's pretty fucking cool. As such, RØSENKØPF's music doesn't take you on a journey so much as build narrow monuments out of scrap metal that are only meant to hold for five minutes at a time. The real thrills aren't provided via hooks so much as the point where each track teeters most perilously on collapse. Those are typically the times when this music gets closest to passing for instrumentals from the kind of bands scoring serious MTV play after Nine Inch Nails broke big. But for better or worse, what separates this from the God Lives Underwaters and Gravity Killses of the world are Søren Roi's vocals, which are clearly meant to chase the squares away, but always just sound... off instead of truly frightening. I feel like something more Cookie Monster or Zombie Ian Curtis would've fit better aesthetically than the shrill, reptilian hiss favored by Roi, but as a whole, vocals of any sort are a problem area. The first half of \"Heed\" is punctuated with a hilarious, Mortal Kombatstyle \"OMEGA!\" (alternate genre name, Sega Teenage Riot) while the preacherrevolutionary recording that plays throughout \"Human Love Song\" (\"You are not machines! You are not cattle! You are men!\") suggest a band that took Ministry a little too seriously for its own good. But I suppose RØSENKØPF aren't about doing the most tasteful thing to begin with. The point isn't to determine whether \"Troth\" should've continued its surprisingly gorgeous, postrock churn instead of taking a jarring turn into digital hardcore or whether they can really pull off spotwelding halftime surf rock, witch house, Built to Spillstyle guitar solos, dancehall beats, and black metal vocals within the span of two minutes during \"Heed\". The point is that RØSENKØPF are willing to try and indeed, for a record that goes for such an exaggerated scorchedearth feel, it's understandable that they're a band that sounds like they're in survival mode, learning the lay of the land on a minutebyminute basis. It'll be really interesting to see what happens if they settle in next time around. "}