{"label":" Ministry of Sound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17820/homepage_large.ea6209d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Andrew Weatherall","title":"Masterpiece","text":" Some artists fall assbackwards into the zeitgeist, ending up there due to the singularity of their vision instead of any desire to remain abreast of current trends. The career of Andrew Weatherall is a product of his instinctual way of hearing, of feeling out sounds and slotting them together in unexpected ways. This is true of his work as a DJ, remixer, producer, and as a musician. Whenever he's surfaced at the forefront of a movement working with label and zine Boys Own in the early acid house days, helping indie and dance seep into one another via his seminal production on Primal Scream's \"Loaded\" he always played a part in actively devising those worlds. His career is marked by a continual reinvention as the most unassuming type of leader, although Weatherall would probably regard that description as a pejorative term, especially given the haste with which he flees from anything that could be described as a \"scene.\" Usually he doesn't even wait until his ideas reach critical mass, instead choosing to disappear in a puff of smoke, already lost deep in a broad range of new fascinations. Masterpiece is a 3xCD set in a series of the same name devised by Ministry of Sound, which allows artists ample space to mix up past and present favorites. Weatherall chose to theme his mixes around his most recent club venture, A Love from Outer Space, conducted with his longterm accomplice Sean Johnston at a tiny dive bar in Stoke Newington in London. The simple manifesto of the club, \"never knowingly exceeding 122bpm,\" is roughly adhered to here, and has partially led to a coining of the term \"cosmic disco\" to describe the music played within its sweatsoaked walls. There's something about the whole package that neatly ties together Weatherall's approach to his work, from his bemusement in the sleeve notes about the \"cosmic disco\" moniker to the not inconsiderable fact that the club just ended its residency in Stoke Newington. Once again he's moved on just as the outside world is catching up, although we do at least have this memento to chew on and the promise of isolated ALFOS club nights across the globe.  The name of the club is pulled from the A.R. Kane \"i\" cut \"A Love From Outer Space\", and versions of the track bookend this compilation. The opener is from Weatherall's new band with producer Timothy J. Fairplay, the Asphodells, and the third disc closes out with the A.R. Kane original. It's a fitting way to seal up both ends of Masterpiece, because the influence of the semilegendary dreampop outfit continually bobs to the surface, whether it's in the skysawing guitars of the Horrors' \"Wild Eyed\" (presented here in its Weatherall remix) or through the sunken astraldub of Aquarius Heaven's reworking of \"Decontrol\" by the Subs. It speaks highly of Weatherall's intuitive way of detecting musical sea changes that his club has been obsessing over A.R. Kane for the past two years. It's not hard to hear their influence weaving in and out of a number of acts (Peaking Lights, Dean Blunt and Inga Copeland, Tame Impala) currently flitting between similar light and dark pop impulses on both sides of the Atlantic. So Weatherall's radar remains firmly intact, but all three mixes here additionally demonstrate his broad pallet and his idiosyncratic way of forging links between the underground and more populist fare. Weatherall is a bigpicture thinker, who can step back from tightly clustered musical cliques to find common ground in the impeccable glide of Todd Terje's \"Ragysh\", the ragged rock of Glasgow quartet Sons & Daughters, and the watery psych passages of Wooden Shjips' \"Crossing\". Anyone taking a cursory glance at the track listing might be befuddled at how it all works together, but that's a Weatherall trademark, a feeling he's often distilled when his name is affixed to record labels belonging to acts as diverse as the Twilight Sad, James, and My Bloody Valentine. Like all the best mixes, the joins rarely show, and familiar tracks act as gateways into unexplored worlds, such as the impeccable slide from Weatherall's glacial reworking of Cut Copy's \"Sun God\" into Bulgarian producer Bogdan Irkük's raw minimalism on \"My Weakness\". For Weatherall, all good DJ sets offer some form of education, whether it's being introduced to someone like Irkük or hearing a new twist on an older track, such as the reggaeified version of Primal Scream's \"Uptown\" from the largely forgottenabout Beautiful Future. \"It's pompous to expect a history lesson when you go out [to a club], but that's how it should be,\" Weatherall says in the sleeve notes. Masterpiece also offers a few lessons on the current. Fairplay, in particular, offers a couple of impressive tracks, notably on a remix of \"The Final Reel\" that plays out like an instrumental version of New Order indulging all their Death in Vegas circa \"Dirt\" fantasies. \"The Final Reel\" is balanced on the kind of line Weatherall frequently likes to tread, with its roots firmly in the underground he inhabits, but strung out with so many hooks that it could easily court a wider audience with the right push behind it.  In a sense, that's the path Weatherall's talent has led him on throughout his career, causing demand to far outstrip supply in the intimate club experiences he cultivates. Small nights he's worked (Shoom, Sabersonic, A Love from Outer Space) blossom because of the sense of community and inclusion they create, where audio secrets don't remain that way for long and are excitedly shared with the wider world by those lucky enough to get through the door. It's why we're left with Masterpiece offering us further inroads into Weatherall's current mindset, and it's why ALFOS was destined to end up overflowing with people banging down its door from the moment it was conceived. But this is the best kind of way to quit, before the buzz starts to fade, before the flab starts to show, before a sense of trading on past glories begins to kick in. Weatherall knows it's time to say goodbye when it feels like the rest of the world is looking over his shoulder. At least this album made sure we got some generous signposts left behind.  "}