{"label":" Greco-Roman","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17836/homepage_large.7a25452b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hari Ashurst","artist":"Baio","title":"Sunburn EP","text":" For all the big hooks and pop appeal, Vampire Weekend have always shown more than a few interesting sides to their music, including West African keyboard tones, hyperlyrical twists, and percussion that is more likely to interlock than simply keep time. Chris Baio's bass playing is a key part of the band's signature rhythmic palette and always has a jaunty bounce to it. His first solo outing in the form of a short EP titled Sunburn not only feels connected to his playing in Vampire Weekend but also extends far from anything on his 9to5 band's records. \"Sunburn Modern\" relocates Vampire Weekend's staple WestAfrican influence to somewhere around the Balearic islands. The skeleton of the song is made from a trio of lightly tapped bongos, balmy vocal stabs, and an electronic bassline that leaves heavy footprints. That bedrock is rhythmic with Baio teasing out all sorts of neat interplay around a 4/4 beat. The rest follows a deceptively simple format; keys track the slow but purposeful movements of the bass while whispering synthstrings provide a touch of melancholy for shading. The song isn't too far away from the ideas Air France were mining on No Way Down, and Baio achieves a similar vibe of sunbleached bliss. Despite the brevity of Sunburn (just three tracks) it's impressive how easily Baio puts down a marker. That he spends most of his time playing bass makes total sense in this context, too: each element on this record is consumed with rhythm and pacing. Even the big melody lines come from percussive instruments or sounds. Consider highlight \"Tanto\", for example: Steel drums drive its early momentum before Chilean vocalist and experimenter Matias Aguayo opens things up with a characteristically choppy, rhythmic take full of depth and motion. Aguayo might not be singing anything in particular, but the gentle, precise movement of his chantlike vocal is both fun and strangely euphoric. The song truly approaches the point of bliss when Baio sweeps away the clutter halfway through, allowing those vocals, a dewy keyboard, and finger snaps to hang in the air for just a minute. Baio's rhythmic approach comes undone on the EP's one weak spot, \"Anonymity\", showing there's still a little way to go for his solo efforts: The beats fall too straight, and the whole thing ends up feeling undercooked. That said, it's difficult to draw many conclusions from such a slim set of songs, and most of the time the humid fun of Sunburn's best moments make for enjoyable, nicely transportive stuff. "}