{"label":" True Panther","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17830/homepage_large.a34bd982.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Lemonade","title":"Diver","text":" Lemonade's selftitled 2008 album was one big, exhilarating highlight reel condensing the preceding decade of dance/rock crossovers, blurring the divisions separating DFAstyle postpunk disco and EDM superclub thumpers. The sheer, relentless force of that release seemingly had a physically and emotionally draining effect on the BrooklynviaSan Francisco trio; when I caught the band at a March 2009 South by Southwest showcase, they had already forsaken their debut's percussive thrust for the more gentle, deconstructed tropicalpop sound that would surface on 2010's stopgap Pure Moods EP. But on their sophomore fulllength, Diver, Lemonade effectively pull an allout George Costanza: They strive to become the exact opposite of everything they once were. Where Lemonade once routinely stretched their aggrohouse workouts past the sevenminute mark, Diver works in more popeconomical fourminute bursts, tempering the bigbeat ballast into strippeddown slow jams. Where the band once exuded all the sweat and humidity of a firecodeviolating loft party, the mood of Diver is deliberately austere and chilly, all frostcovered synths and icepicked broken beats. And where frontman Callan Clendenin once favored an unintelligible shoutspeak that perfectly personified the band's hedonistic verve, on Diver, he sensitively sings about his feelings and desires in no uncertain terms. Clendenin has certainly come a long way as a vocalist since his initial, tentative forays into pop on Pure Moods; now pitched somewhere between the arenasized ardor of Cut Copy's Dan Whitford and the hermetic croon of Junior Boys' Jeremy Greenspan, Clendenin convincingly projects the inner turmoil and insecurities of someone who's endured many sleepless nights with too much on his mind. But that constant sense of yearning turns Diver into an exceedingly serious, earnest affair that conjures copious visions of highly stylized blackandwhite videos from the mid80s featuring singers staring ruefully into the camera. And while Lemonade's production palette is broad enough to draw from the Ibizabound synthpop of New Order (\"Ice Water\") and twitchy R&B (\"Eye Drops\"), it's overly reliant on some of the more odious, oilslick signifiers of Reaganera MOR: New Agey keyboard lines (\"Infinite Style\"), steelpandrum accents (\"Neptune\", \"Whitecaps\") and windchime vibes (\"Vivid\"). Appropriately, even the album title sounds like it was pinched from a midperiod Steve Winwood record. Unfortunately, these overglossed LiteFM touches make some of Clendenin's openhearted addresses (\"when you pocket/ called me/ from some/ party/ there were/ so many/ voices in that room!\") sound much more melodramatic if not outright cheesy than they ought to be. And yet, Diver's surface sheen doesn't obscure the fact that Lemonade have improved greatly as songwriters, with a far more assured grasp of melody and pop structure than their debut album ever suggested. All of the aforementioned songs are fundamentally strong enough to make you wonder how much better they'd be if Lemonade downplayed the preciousness and amplified the sense of urgency and release; Diver's last two and, not coincidentally, best tracks \"Big Changes\" and \"Softkiss\" put that theory into immediate action, translating Lemonade's sophisticating songcraft into strobelit dancefloor anthems. True to its titular subject, Diver constitutes a daring leap for Lemonade, one that, at times, appears destined to result in a bellyflop, but recovers nicely in the end. "}