{"label":" Box of Cedar","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17829/homepage_large.55d52e46.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Marissa Nadler","title":"The Sister","text":" To press play on any of Marissa Nadler's six albums is to enter a peaceful but painful dream. Since 2004, whether over the barebones creak of the early The Saga of Mayflower May or the synthetically textured Little Hells, Nadler's records of wispy melancholy have opened outwardly like arms, inviting the listener to stay for a permanent spell. Invariably hypnotic, Nadler's music has often felt like its own selfsustaining atmosphere ready and able to be inhabited, suited for the repeat button, surreal in its dreamlike propensity to remove the listener from the rest of the world. The Sister is Nadler's second fulllength by way of her own Box of Cedar imprint in as many years, and she's possibly never made a record that so completely meets those sequestered conditions. These eight songs feel like a turnon, dropout experience, an engrossing reverie of complicated characters, their twisted feelings and Nadler's muted reverence for them. That's not necessarily the best look for Nadler, who, in spite of her albums' allencompassing essence, has managed to squeeze at least one indelible standout into every record; Songs III, for instance, had \"Bird on Your Grave\", while last year's selftitled disc sported \"The Sun Always Reminds Me of You\" and \"Wedding\", all songs that stood apart from their settings while ably functioning within them. But these 33 minutes hang together to a fault, with songs trussed by a singular stylistic and sonic palette until the album as a whole actually starts to seem stiff. As always with Nadler, The Sister is still an absorbing listen, even if it is a bit conservative. With the exception of the resilient, pianoanchored \"Love Again, There Is a Fire\", Nadler leads each song on The Sister with her acoustic guitar. For opener \"The Wrecking Ball Company\", the playing is simple and direct, with a short phrase thumbed through the steady drums and webbed vocals; during \"Apostle\", she refashions the celestial heights of James Blackshaw's 12string compositions with modesty. Nadler's grown substantially as a guitarist, meaning that her notes are crisper and her lines more mesmeric. But she operates exclusively in those alternate modes that is, elegant or elementary across all of The Sister, meaning that the excellent supporting cast she's gathered here falls behind her direction rather than helping to drive it. Carter Tanton's intriguing electric textures on closer \"Your Heart is a Twisted Vine\" feel more like an accessory than a building block; ditto the spectral harmonies and the faint serial keyboards tacked onto the end of \"Christine\". Like the songs they support, there's nothing wrong with any of these moments. They just blur into one another, sublimating into a whole that's occasionally void of definition.  At various points throughout Nadler's career, there's been compulsory evidence to consider her something of a \"breakout\" artist. At the height of the freakfolk moment, she fell just short of the \"alabaster queen\" status that she later pledged; in the following years, she signed to Kemado Records, a label whose beardandbeercan metal and sleazeball rock roster didn't buoy Nadler toward many ideal audiences; when she subsequently lent her spook to an album by blackmetal mystery Xasthur, she again missed her chance to connect wholesale with an expanding crowd. Last year, it felt as if she was giving herself a new start by crowdfunding her first selftitled release on her own label; that record, in retrospect, seems impregnably confident and adventurous, where several perfect bits of country loneliness came countered by a halfdozen variably gothic trances. The Sister is Nadler's most narcotic album to date, and she also continues to sharpen her skills as a writer, beguiling with alliteration and distant images that should cause listeners to daydream with wonder. But The Sister ultimately comes across as, at best, a retread done well and, at worst, a retreat into previously approved territory by an artist who has noticeably improved as a tactician. In this way, The Sister recalls clear Nadler forebear Buffy SainteMarie, another songwriter who, at her best, built albums that felt apart from the rest of the world, even as they wove together the very familiar and the very abstract. (Like Nadler, she also had a way with Leonard Cohen songs.) SainteMarie surrounded occasional great albums with stacks of entirely good, functional music, never able to progress definitively despite obvious improvements on multiple fronts. Still, there's no shame in a string of albums that are at least \"entirely good,\" a streak that Nadler has yet to break even if The Sister feels like the first minor album of her career. "}