{"label":" Vagrant / Community Music","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17842/homepage_large.db5c5b0e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros","title":"Here","text":" Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros' recent collaboration with the Flaming Lips an understated folk hymn with notsounderstated title of \"Helping the Retarded to Know God\" concludes with a twominute coda wherein Wayne Coyne repeats the words, \"I am trying/ To know you,\" with increasing desperation at each pass. The song's title suggests Coyne is singing to the man upstairs, but he could very well be directing that line at Sharpe i.e., the bornagain alias/alter ego of L.A. musicscene lifer Alex Ebert. No doubt, Ebert has given skeptics plenty of reason to question his motives and identity, given his seemingly convenient transformation from the asymmetricalhaircutted frontman of early2000s dancepunk chancers Ima Robot into the hirsute, hippydippy leader of Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, who arrived in 2009 packaged in a fauxreligiouscult gambit on loan from the dormant Polyphonic Spree. But while Ebert had assumed a new character one he devised to serve as a beacon of positivity during a rehab stint its personality was nonetheless vague: The Zeros' debut album, Up From Below, saw Ebert rifling through various guises and voices countrypolitan crooner (\"Carries On\"), flowerchild folkie (\"Jade\"), Arcade Firedup preacherman (\"40 Day Dream\"), hysterical Spanish spaghettiwestern shrieker (\"Kisses Over Babylon\") like outfits on a thriftstore rack. You can't begrudge an artist's right to reinvent himself, but Ebert's transformation into Edward had the effect of feeling both calculated and noncommittal at the same time. From the getgo, Here foregrounds the messianic qualities of the Sharpe persona, with nine songs centered thematically around god, church, and various allyouneedislove platitudes; the Johnny Cashcopping opening track introduces Ebert as a \"Man on Fire\" who wants the \"whole damn world to come dance with me,\" while \"Dear Believer\" not so modestly declares \"reaching for heaven is what I'm on Earth to do.\" But rather than push Ebert and co. to more ridiculous degrees of theatrical religiosity, Here is a surprisingly humble, homespun affair. In contrast to the band's debut, Here sounds more genuinely like the sort of mellowedout rootsrock record that you'd expect from a dancepunk burnout looking to sober up and simplify. Or, at the very least, it's the ramshackle but accessible 1970s Topanga Canyon throwback album that Warner Bros. were hoping they could get out of Devendra Banhart. Thankfully a good 20 minutes shorter than its predecessor, Here is an album that gets by on casual, lowkey charm rather than showboating gestures; though the Magnetic Zeros' membership numbers into the double digits, a good deal of this album sounds like it could've been recorded by a lone footstomping folksinger, carrying over the intimate, aroundthekitchentable ambience of Ebert's 2011 solo release, Alexander. The woodcabincozy production is especially beneficial to the most lightweight material; where the island accents of \"One Love to Another\" threaten to degenerate into codreggae caricature, the song's luminous, playful presentation makes it sound uncannily like something wafting out of Paul and Linda's farmhouse. And even the songs that make use of the full ensemble do so in subtle, tasteful fashion, as exemplified by the dewy electricguitar droplets, distant choral harmonies, and soothing brass fanfares that color the daydreamy centerpiece \"Mayla\". Most significantly, Ebert sounds much more relaxed, less affected here as a vocalist, settling into a pleasing, conversational tone that cheekily deflates the pomp inherent to his adopted persona (from \"Dear Believer\": \"The world's gettin' heavy on my shoulders as a child/ But I let it all go to my waist\"). But this evolution does come at the expense of his more feisty foil Jade Castrinos; where she served as the grounding influence to Ebert's unrestrained whimsy on Up From Below, on Here, her excitable solo turns on the honkygospel hoedown \"That's What's Up\" and the histrionic southernrock wailer \"Fiya Wata\" sound too inyourface and out of place amid Here's laidback, sunstroked vibe. Here may constitute the next chapter in the everevolving mythology of Edward Sharpe, but really, it's more effective as a means of getting to know Alex Ebert. "}