{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17869/homepage_large.c57d8758.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Paul Banks","title":"Julian Plenti Lives... EP","text":" There's always been something that doesn't quite add up about Interpol leader Paul Banks. His precise selfpresentation is hard to reconcile with that stark, ungainly voice. What sort of creature is that supposed to be? The singer's internally turbulent blankness was the catalytic agent in Interpol's modern classic, Turn on the Bright Lights, which they started to work on in November 2001. When it came out the following year, its overlays of urbanapocalyptic vision and made a visceral kind of sense: Banks sounding stunned with emotion amid his band's massive architecture. Interpol were quickly elected avatars of the post9/11, Brooklyncentered postpunk boom, an improbable moment when it seemed like Echo and the Bunnymen were more influential than the Rolling Stones, which was immortalized in a Believer article called \"WellDressed Men Sing Songs for Oblivion\". But the moment passed, and Interpol ceased to feel inevitable. Though they still technically exist, it's hard not to think of them in the past tense. Whether Banks' elusive persona will be interesting to listeners in other contexts is an open question. It wasn't resolved on his capricious solo debut, Julian Plenti Is… Skyscraper, and it isn't resolved on Julian Plenti Lives…, a perfectly decent if rather bizarre teaser EP for an impending followup. Those ambivalent ellipses are spoton. We still have no clue what this project is really about or who Julian Plenti is, let alone Paul Banks. The EP consists of two originals and three covers seemingly plucked at random. Opening instrumental \"Perimeter Deactivated\" is a driving version of a Harold Faltermeyer theme from the 1987 Schwarzenegger film The Running Man. \"Mythsysizer\" is a J Dilla cover with concussive guitar chords and swirling pianos. \"I'm a Fool to Want You\" is a fairly straight Sinatra cover with why not? a light triphop undercarriage, and comes off about as well as that possibly could. There's also an original instrumental that sounds like a lessfunky Ratatat cribbing riffs from \"Float On\". You could be forgiven for wondering what in the hell is going on. Let's hope that these confusing covers are just filler to round out \"Summertime Is Coming\", which would form an intriguing basis for the new Julian Plenti album. The liquid guitar line of \"Summertime\" is enticingly familiar a welcome reminder in all the hodgepodge that Banks' music has specific good qualities. The lyrics range from flawlessly vacuous to genuinely affecting \"Is this the right time to know me?\" though if you're deadset on finding a quotable clunker, \"You're sweet like a peach on the beach\" will do fine. The Flaming Lipslike acoustic outro is at once daring, awkward, and moving startlingly personal, even. The song's success relative to the instrumentals says two things. One: Banks does have substance. Take him out of the music and the spirit goes. Two: Interpol's power derived, to a perhaps underappreciated degree, from musicianship. They knew how to control tempo and pace, especially with former bassist Carlos Dengler's stately but kinetic touch. For the Julian Plenti LP, a little less Logic and a little more playing and singing would go a long way. "}