{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17867/homepage_large.6270cc94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Mystery Jets","title":"Radlands","text":" After a long hiatus marked by side projects and personal tragedy, the Killers are set to return later this year with a new album and I'd bet that Mystery Jets are disappointed by that news. Back in 2010, the British rockers released Serotonin, an album packed with sparkling, glammy stadiumpop gems to rival Brandon Flowers' most cocksure featherjacketed highs. Taking into consideration the ramshackle funhouse guitar pop of the band's 2006 debut, Making Dens, the shift toward such shiny stuff was surprising the amount of added polish was especially noticeable (even for a band that's always sounded relatively puttogether in the production department) but it was a new look that they wore well. They didn't become megastars, not even close, but they certainly did a decent job of sounding the part. Despite the fact that Mystery Jets have frequently worn their musical inspirations on their sleeves (see: the Carsbiting, JCPenney commercialsoundtracking \"Two Doors Down\", from 2008's uneven Twenty One), they've also always travelled at their own pace, out of step with everyone except their own whims and with moderate critical success. Naturally, then, their fourth album, Radlands, finds the band leaving the glitzy rafterreaching attitude of Serotonin more or less in the dust. Ironically, in favor of more dust, since they chose to decamp to Texas to work on the lion's share of the album. As frontman Blaine Harrison explains in a press release, the album's title is a Pizza Hut/Taco Bell portmanteau of the names of enigmatic director Terence Malick's first film, 1973's Badlands, and the name of Keith Richards' notorious Redlands estate house. Despite its title, Radlands isn't breathtakingly cinematic, nor is it the scene of an urban legend concerning Marianne Faithfull and a candy bar; quite simply, it's a \"Coming to America\" statement, one that arrives with acoustic guitars, countryish melodies, gospel choirs, and a convoluted fictional narrative involving a nomadic cowboydressed musician that apparently needed its own limitedrun comic book just to tell its story. If the idea of a British (and very Britishsounding) band pairing its notions of Americana with a loosely drawn conceptual arc sounds like it's been done before, it's because it has been by the Killers. Those Actual Americans and British Big Deals previously attempted to conjure a Springsteenian vibe from their betterwithage 2006 LP Sam's Town, which was frequently felled by its own sword of false pretension. Harrison and his band's heads aren't as intheclouds as Flowers', so their approach on Radlands is decidedly more modest selfdefeating, actually, when taking into account the first lyric uttered on the album's opening title track: \"I've heard there's a place where we go to die/ It's a terribly overrated horseshitshaped hole in the sky.\" Unfortunately, that opening salvo is as cheeky as things get in Radlands country, the other attempt at goodnatured humor being \"Greatest Hits\", an obnoxious ripoff of Stealers Wheel's \"Stuck in the Middle With You\" that namechecks tons of album titles (that is, except the record itself that it rips off) while lamenting a failed relationship. The problem with Radlands is that, armed with the potential to go wild with a new bag of tricks, Mystery Jets often become as conservatively minded as parts of the state whose outline graces the album's cover. The limp, shuffling duet \"Take Me Where the Roses Go\" is as innocuously bland as the state flower anthem it could potentially pass for, the warm guitar bends of \"The Ballad of Emmerson Lonestar\" fail to hide the song's illfitting cowboy boots, and the limp, spacey \"The Nothing\" sounds exactly as its title suggests. Dan Carey, who's worked with artists like Franz Ferdinand and Kylie Minogue, manned the production boards for this one, and it's not impossible to imagine him daydreaming about the more interesting bullet points on his CV as the band plays on. There are a few reminders of past glories on Radlands specifically, the sassy glam jangle of \"The Hale Bop\", as well as the album's closing trio of pomprock histrionics, \"Sister Everett\", \"Lost in Austin\", and \"Luminescence\". Early on, \"Someone Purer\" serves nicely as a stopstartstopstartandthenchugonandon rocker, but one passionately delivered line that's let go from Harrison's lips rings cornily and loudly: \"Deliver me from sin/ And give me rock'n'roll.\" Sadly, if there's irony hidden in that line, I can't find it. "}