{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17880/homepage_large.343d7391.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"POP ETC","title":"POP ETC","text":" Two clichés that seem to pop up a lot in writing about music: One artist might \"know his lane and stay in it,\" while another \"moves outside of her comfort zone.\" There is virtue in both approaches. On the one hand, it's admirable to know what you do best and parlay that strength into a work to match (see the Ramones or Beach House). On the other, it's hard not to respect when someone decides to do something different with the hope that his or her audience will follow along (see Beck or Joni Mitchell). The Morning Benders, a BrooklynviaSan Francisco outfit, were for two albums a workmanlike indie rock band, and on their last effort, 2010's Big Echo, they brought in Grizzly Bear's Chris Taylor to produce a solid collection of wooly chamber rock. This year, they changed their name to POP ETC after discovering that the word \"bender\" has an offensive homophobic connotation in the UK, and they made a shift in sound that was just as radical. Instead of widescreen guitar rock, the newly christened band would draw inspiration from leader Chris Chu's childhood obsession with R&B groups like Boyz II Men and synthheavy pop artists like Madonna. We're talking neon keyboards, plenty of AutoTune, songs with titles like \"I Wanna Be Your Man\". Is the band's selftitled album under the new moniker a brave changeup? Sure. Is it any good? Not even a little. Forget staying in their lane; the Band Formerly Known as the Morning Benders have drifted into the median, jumped the guardrail, and tumbled endoverend in the direction of a sheer cliff. It's not as if tweeleaning indie that incorporates R&B and synthpop is unheard of. Bands like Passion Pit and, on a smaller scale, the Vampire Weekend/Ra Ra Riot side project Discovery found ways to channel the brashest sound of the radio into something that felt personal and distinctive. But Discovery emanated warmth and affection while Passion Pit get over on exuberance and songwriting chops. POP ETC have none of these qualities. This is unbearably cloying music in the vein of Owl City's \"Fireflies\", a mix of scrubbedclean earnestness, brighteyed naiveté, and some of the dopiest lyrics this side of Zach Attack. There are two types of singers in the world: those who can sell a chorus like \"Rock your body quick and get up, get up,\" in a song that starts, \"I came here to party don't bring me down,\" and those who cannot. Justin Timberlake can certainly pull it off. Chu, well... when you miss the mark as badly as he does here, you end up with a dangerously annoying flesheating earworm. And so much of what's wrong here really does come down to how he uses his voice. It's not that he's a bad singer, at all; it's all in his tone, and how it works in this setting. In the fuzzy and mellow world of Big Echo, Chu's voice took on a hint of mystery and ambiguity. In POP ETC, he comes over like a breathlessly enthusiastic YMCA counselor with no selfawareness trying to impress 10yearolds with wacky popculture appropriations. Which might be possible to overlook if the melodies and hooks were good enough, but they're functional at best and sometimes (\"Keep It to Your Own\") downright awful. \"We've committed to our new sound, and we're not ashamed,\" Chu said in an interview with Pitchfork. \"We're not trying to sneak anything by anybody. We are what we are and, hopefully, you'll like it.\" I like this attitude. Chu is right that he's got to follow his muse and he and his band have to go where their interests take them. But such a decision wouldn't be commendable if success were assured. Albums like this remind us why we look up to those who take risks. Here's hoping that the next one POP ETC take works out much better. "}