{"label":" Casablanca","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17881/homepage_large.a4ea012c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Totally Enormous Extinct Dinosaurs","title":"Trouble","text":" The name's a lark, kind of. When Oxfordbased popinfused house producer Orlando Higginbottom uploaded some rough demos to MySpace back in the preSoundcloud days of 2007, he attributed them to the rather ridiculoussounding moniker of Totally Enormous Extinct Dinosaurs. His reasoning, as he told former Pitchfork contributor Philip Sherburne over at SPIN, was that he was looking for a name that \"couldn't be cool, couldn't be put into some kind of scene that gets hip for six months and then falls out of fashion.\" Many discerning listeners still put plenty of stock into what artists call themselves, but in an age of music culture that favors layers of extramusical imagery (or lack thereof) as key to an artist's narrative, such nomenclatural recklessness as Higginbottom's actually comes across as fairly brilliant. The deeper joke: Despite the goofy name and Higginbottom's preferred costuming (huge feathered wings, huge feathered headdresses, stegosaurus spines, headgear that resembles gluedtogether mosquito nets), TEED's proper debut LP, Trouble, isn't incredibly showy. That much is obvious as soon as Higginbottom's voice drifts into his selfprogrammed rhythmic fray. If we're talking about octaves, he's got range his ability to slip into a soft falsetto is something that other midlevel electropop crooners should work hard to emulate but overall, he sounds shy and reserved vocally, in a way not totally dissimilar to fellow multitasking countryman Kwes. Trouble is Higginbottom's Polydor debut, but he's previously released music on GrecoRoman, the reliable label run by Hot Chip's Joe Goddard (who himself turned in an astounding remix of early single \"Garden\"). The connection makes sense, since TEED's approach to dancepop, much like Goddard's main act, sounds especially everyguy. The project's live show provides plenty of evidence that the stuff pleases crowds, but you get the feeling that he's doing this for himself more than anyone else. While Hot Chip's lyrical focus has turned toward a beatific and universal mindset, Higginbottom's subject matter is more introverted. Mostly he sings about girls about how they don't pay him much mind and about how much mind he pays them, with a few heartonsleeve pleas for mutual appreciation sprinkled throughout. Trouble's production is topnotch, with some sweaty club heartstoppers (the bouncing bass of \"Solo\", \"Your Love\"'s euphoric vocalhouse vibes), but Higginbottom's work never really sounds sexy, precisely because he's not trying to make it so. Even though his guise has appeared on a Crosstown Rebels single, TEED ditches the sultry vibes of his contemporaries and embraces his inner nerd. \"Household Goods\" is an onyourknees beg for attention directed toward someone preoccupied with someone else, but when all's said and done, Orlando's fairly noncommittal about the whole thing: \"Give me a shot/ 'Cause I could be the dog to your bone/ Or something.\" On \"Stronger\", he delivers devotionally, \"The feel I love in you is making me stronger,\" the kind of accidental play on words that spills out when you're keyed up on whatever's available or, when you're making hay out of a loveless situation by trying to siphon euphoria from future heartbreak. Those sensitive, vaguely bookish tendencies definitely lend Trouble a distinctly indie pop appeal a Junior Boys for the sexually frustrated, perhaps, a comparison that builds steam when noticing the comparability between Higginbottom's vocals and those of Junior Boys' Jeremy Greenspan circa Last Exit. But anyone with a pocketprotectorprotected heart knows that even nerds have wandering minds. Besides slightly overdoing it on trackbytrack rhythmic similarities and sounds shaded with warm reds and blacks, Trouble is a hair or two too long, which makes it all the more ironic that some of its strongest moments take place when its creator is content to let his short hair down and escape to the comforts of his own mind. The vocalskipping echoes of \"Closer\" move at their own pace, while \"Shimmer\" seems less concerned with a conclusion than finding a way to stick its head further into the clouds, as Higginbottom wistfully exhales, \"If you mean it, if you mean it, if you really do/ Right on.\" The exclamation comes across more like a sigh, but feeling good often feels bad, too. "}