{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17888/homepage_large.f3d256cc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Maximo Park","title":"The National Health","text":" Maxïmo Park are, for better or worse, playing it straight. The National Health is the band's fourth album in seven years, and they know their blueprint, first laid on their one classic album, by heart. But redundancy and tedium are never far away from a nearly decadeold band churning out rewrites of the hits. The National Health is not immune to those ills, but it does prove that there's still some water left in that well, even if they're scraping the bottom. Maxïmo Park have always been best at their fastest, when they sprint through verses into choruses and back out again just as quickly. That's thanks mostly to singer Paul Smith, who has a unique ability to slip into controlled mania like a jockey cracking a whip. That said, the band has mellowed some with time; thrillingly, this album's title track could run with singles like \"Apply Some Pressure\" or \"Our Velocity\", but Maxïmo Park otherwise deal with milder tempos on The National Health. The album's lack of careening energy is occasionally made up for with strong songwriting, most notably in the small stretch from \"The Undercurrents\" through \"Reluctant Love\". Other times, though, they plow through songs without hitting a solid hook, or try on styles that don't quite fit: \"This Is What Becomes of the Broken Hearted\" and \"Take Me Home\" especially sound like the someone dared Maxïmo Park to write a few Hold Steady songs. And for as good a frontman as Smith can be, his singing isn't quite suited for the jangly classic rock that they try and pull off on those songs. At other times, the band goes for something heavier and louder, but that doesn't quite work either. Smith often sounds like he's fighting his band for control; you can almost imagine his throat fraying as he battles piles and piles of riffs on \"Banlieue\" and \"Waves of Fear\". Better are songs like \"Write This Down\", where the instruments are simply mixed lower than Smith's vocals and his melodies drive the song. Not coincidentally, that's the song on The National Help with the most memorable chorus.  The title portends a political bent, and the title track does itch with anxiousness over England's present (deep cuts to the NHS have been threatened), while Smith's bandmates bring black humor in the form of a mocking gallery. But politics are mostly a sideline here; like a true romantic, singer Paul Smith is still much more concerned with the status of his heart and his bed. It's not so much Maxïmo Park's political album as it is a typical Maxïmo Park album rattled slightly by a rocky Western world, one where Smith's romantic pursuits are often fueled by a fear of losing out to society's apathy. Maybe that explicit awareness of falling behind (on \"Waves of Fear\", Smith tells a romantic pursuit that they \"will overcome the apathetics we've become\") has something to do with it. Maxïmo Park so often sound on The National Health like they're trying too hard, struggling to find a sound that once came naturally.  "}