{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17892/homepage_large.762bfaa8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Fiona Apple","title":"The Idler Wheel...","text":" In March, a 12yearold letter Fiona Apple once wrote to a young gay fan named Bill surfaced online. \"A person who loves is a righteous person,\" read the supportive note, \"and if someone has the ability and desire to show love to another to someone willing to receive it, then for goodness' sake, let them do it.\" The message was warm, thoughtful, sincere. But its presentation was just as important. It was writtenout by hand, on lined paper. And there were Apple's pen marks a distinctive blend of print and cursive legible yet casual, perfect in its imperfections. The letter provided an instant reminder of the singersongwriter's lasting appeal, why she can take six or seven years between albums and return to evenmorerabid followers. Unguarded honesty doesn't go out of style.  This is especially true in 2012, when major artists can get so caught up in \"brand management\" and webbased \"social engagement\" that the core of their art emotion, intelligence, meaningful connectivity is sometimes lost amidst bottomless scrolls. Being able to slice through the bullshit is arguably more coveted now than when Apple did just that during her ferocious acceptance speech at the 1997 VMAs. Another famed modern truthteller and awardshow crasher (and noted Fiona fan), Kanye West, has been able to harness technology, the media, and his own public projection by constantly negotiating with all things fresh and new. Apple doesn't really care about all that. In interviews from both 2000 and 2012, she claimed to not listen to any new music whatsoever, and when she recently sat down with Carrie Battan for a Pitchfork interview, she referred to Google as \"this whole Google thing,\" like an overwhelmed grandmother. On her entirely acoustic fourth album,  The Idler Wheel Is Wiser Than the Driver of the Screw and Whipping Cords Will Serve You More Than Ropes Will Ever Do, the 34yearold makes herself heard with her voice, her words, her piano, and not much else. This is the most distilled Fiona Apple album yet. While her celebrated previous work was marked by eclectic musical flourishes courtesy of producers including Jon Brion and Mike Elizondo, The Idler Wheel is fearlessly austere in comparison. She worked with touring drummer Charley Drayton on the album, and his touches are light and incisive. Speaking of the record's signature clattering percussion including thigh slaps, truck stomps, and \"pillow,\" according to the credits Apple associated the homemade sounds with an increased freedom: \"I just like that feeling of: 'I'm in charge, I can do whatever I want.'\" And this musique concrète approach is not random. Every single waveform is pierced with purpose, from the muted heartbeat thumping through \"Valentine\" to the childlike plinks popping around the uncharacteristically optimistic \"Anything We Want\" to the chugging factory sounds that give \"Jonathan\" its uneasy rhythm. On the oddly lifeaffirming \"Werewolf\", a banjo shows up, plucks exactly four notes, and then dips out, never to return. \"You made an island of me,\" she belts on that song, and The Idler Wheel's spareness does lend it an insular loneliness, one that's divorced from the outside world while also being intimately intune with its basic realities. As Fiona's selfdrawn album cover suggests, the inner workings of her mind can be scary, ugly, and headsplinteringly vivid. \"Werewolf\" also features the album's most jarring and powerful foundsound moment: just as the selfconscious ballad climaxes, the roar of children screaming on a playground enters, adding an uncanny mix of dread and wistfulness. The fact that Apple was inspired to insert the yells by a classicmovie battle scene that was running when she first played the song only adds to the sample's ambiguity as well as its spontaneity. Much of the album involves Apple's constant struggle between naivety and cynicism; on opener \"Every Single Night\", she sings, \"I just wanna feel everything\" and \"every single night's a fight with my brain.\" The saga can turn into lacerating theater, as on \"Regret\", which, with its mechanical beat and ominous, monklike ambience, could nearly pass for a track on Nine Inch Nails' The Downward Spiral. The song also features the most brutal hook of Apple's career: \"I ran out of white doves' feathers to soak up the hot piss that comes from your mouth every time you address me,\" she bellows, tearing her throat apart in the name of pure vengeance. And while she's undoubtedly one of our foremost talents at the art of the kissoff, the blame for Apple's woes is a bit more spread out now. \"How can I ask anyone to love me,\" she offers, \"when all I do is beg to be left alone.\"  \"Left Alone\" is nothing short of a vocal masterclass. It has the singer going from the verses' raplike cadence to the hook's curlicue jazz stylings to the operatic long notes of the bridge notes that slowly curdle underneath their own exasperated weariness. This makes sense considering Apple is a child of Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald, and hiphop, a songwriter who's spiking the Great American Songbook with today's mirroruponmirror confessionalism. She's able to convey more with a quick, original turn of phrase \"my woes are granular,\" for one or an inthemoment scrunch of the face than many pop stars are able to muster with 100foot screens and volcano pyrotechnics. It's an oldschool approach, though it rises well above mere sepia Instagrams. Instead of being faroff and dreamy, her throwback moves are the opposite intrusive, corporeal. This is not background music. It demands attention. \"Look at! Look at! Look at! Look at me!\" she pleads on \"Daredevil\", a knowing admission of her selfdestructive tendencies. But even after being thrown into the media spotlight at a young age, and having to deal with crippling doubt, Fiona Apple didn't go boom. She's still here, brave enough to indulge in raw emotion and smart enough to make those feelings carry. "}