{"label":" Optimo Music","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17890/homepage_large.3a9721eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Arthur Russell / Peter Zummo","title":"Zummo With an X","text":" It's safe to assume you've heard neglected New York City trombonist/composer Peter Zummo without realizing it. As the renaissance of the classically trained cellist/Buddhapop enthusiast/leftfield disco auteur/cowboyshirted indiefolk trailblazer Arthur Russell has swelled to include many lovingly rendered reissues, a big biography, and impressionistic documentary, so too does Zummo's nimble trombone work subliminally reach more ears. That's him delivering the booming Skatalitelike horn line on Russell's Paradise Garage staple \"Go Bang #5\", adding cumulous soundclouds to the heavenly \"In the Light of the Miracle\", and foghorning amid the cello fuzz of \"The Platform on the Ocean\". From modern classical to disco classicism, Zummo shadowed the man's singular cello lines with his own peerless trombone work, and no matter Russell's genre or interval leaps, he remained the closest of collaborators. So it makes sense that Russell would repay the favor on Peter Zummo's first album of original compositions, 1985's Zummo With an X, with one side devoted to a sevensectioned piece entitled \"Instruments\" from 1980 and another composition from 1985 entitled \"Song IV\" taking up the other. Out of print on vinyl since its release (though the CD reissue from 2006 tacks on \"Lateral Pass\", another 25 minutes of lovely music), JD Twitch of the record obsessive DJ duo Optimo has taken it upon himself to reissue the album on vinyl. No doubt, it's a piece of music that's close to his heart. And let's be real here, it's certainly not because of \"Instruments\". Beyond the GlassReich Titans of Minimalism Industry that overshadowed most of the late1970s/early1980s modern classical scene of New York City, previously ignored works continue to surface to varying grades of astonishment and cosmic justice, be it the efforts of composers like Jon Gibson, Yoshi Wada, Charlemagne Palestine, Dickie Landry, or Peter Gordon's Love of Life Orchestra. \"Instruments was my answer to a militaristic sort of minimalism that had become popular at the time,\" writes Zummo in the original liner notes. \"I had a much freerflowing notion.\" Yet in listening, it's difficult to hear such openness. Rik Albani's trumpet duets with Zummo's trombone in repetitious twonote phrases while Bill Ruyle's marimba sometimes percolates in the back and Russell's cello is all but impossible to discern. The composition is dryly segmented by halfsteps, sixths, sevenths, whole steps, and the like. They move in and out of phase, yet rather than explore the rich tonalities that can occur from such phasing and overtones, it simply never manifests. Perhaps not enjoying the nuances of such composition exludes my ears from the piece, but throughout it feels more like the rote practice of scales than some exploration of freedom.  Then again, on the original CD issue of Zummo With an X, \"Song IV\" is positioned first, and rarely has there been an instance in the past five years where I have ever needed to hear something else besides \"Song IV\"'s quiet majesty. In a temporal world where Don Draper's statement that the human condition is one where \"happiness is a moment before you need more happiness,\" Zummo's \"Song IV\" is pure manna, the sound of sublimity that erases the need for more sound. Tangentially, it's a 20minute trio recording from 1985, yet such numbers feel feeble against its sound. There is no gauge of duration or where it slots in the discographies of its participants. There's a softness, a fragility to \"Song IV\", much like magnetic filaments or crystal structures, things that would dissolve if touched or dissected. It would be the sound of a Rothko painting, were such canvases portals denoting nirvana rather than the void. Its closest relation would be to Indian classical music, what with Bill Ruyle on tabla and Russell's cello tuned \"like one of the low 'sympathetic' strings on a sitar,\" according to Zummo's liner notes on the CD reissue. Russell's bow taps out beats that dovetail with the tabla's patter in such a manner that sends shivers down the nervous system. But it's as Russell's cello scrapes (and their attendant bit of electronic processing) intermingles with Zummo's muted trombone, closemic'd so that every breath and growl can be felt that makes my arm hairs stand on end. \"Song IV\" feels without beginning or end, as if it's this state entered into rather than something structured and composed, and in its universe, so many tiny, amazing epiphanies happen. There's the way that Russell's wordless mumbles conjoin with what Zummo calls \"lip multiphonics,\" or how a certain cello line will suddenly scale upward, or when Zummo sings through his horn an octave above Russell's own voice. And most beautiful of all, it's the sound of two dear friends in deep conversation, both in this world and beyond it. "}