{"label":" Record Makers","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17895/homepage_large.72176da8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Sébastien Tellier","title":"My God Is Blue","text":" I can't be certain of what Kanye West and Diddy actually do during all those Paris excursions, but I think Sébastien Tellier is the type of Frenchmen they envisage themselves hanging out with. An egomaniacal lech with a Jesus beard and a God complex, Tellier is a European pop curiosity whose work runs from loungey easy listening to dancepop (his last and best album, Sexuality, was produced by GuyManuel de HomemChristo of Daft Punk). In my cobblestone Eurodreams he's basically a bug zapper for models and fancy drugs. In reality, he's a publicly celebrated national artiste, someone strange and finicky enough to draw constant comparisons to Serge Gainsbourg, though Gainsbourg never had a corporate doppelganger as fitting as American Apparel, which sold Sexuality in its stores (pun intended). All of this would make Tellier a particularly hairy thorn if his records weren't so sublime. Like Pete Doherty or any other character whose reputation threatens to overwhelm his music, it's hard to remember that at some point Tellier sits down with a guitar, or a keyboard, or a sampler, and writes songs. More often than not, those songs are good. My God Is Blue is Tellier's fourth album. He still toes the line between pop and dance, this time grabbing disco's haughty string arrangements and stretching them over fun, pompous balladeering. The album is a great reminder that stoopid and stylish make great bedfellows. Tellier has spitshined a tale about how Blue is a reflection on dreams and, if we listen and think hard enough, it will advance our inner consciousness. His penchant for grandness and selfpromotion notwithstanding, I advise against taking Blue quite this seriously. It's a lovely diversion, though, full of floral arrangements that crosshatch against Tellier's breathy, competent baritone. He isn't as tunedin musically as Gainsbourg who groped artrock, funk, and reggae but he's similarly adept at using his force of personality to bring the best out of his collaborators. Blue was produced by Ed Banger mainstay Mr. Flash, and it's easily some of the most succulent and attractive music to come out of that camp in years. The productions shine, mixing taut electro rhythms with those swirling strings. There's a sense of scale to the album that is really attractive; all of Blue's pianos are grand pianos. The marvelous \"Russian Attractions\" sounds like Lex Luger remixing early Scott Walker; if it's not soundtracking the Criterion edition of Eastern Promises in 2020 I'm pocketing my $32. Lead single \"Cochon Ville\" is a busy space disco more committed than anything we've heard from Lindstrøm of late (a singleonly remix by fellow Parisian Brodinski absolutely knocks). \"My Poseidon\" is a film score twisted into dark pop delirium.  Tellier navigates through this stew with a surprising grace that we can reasonably say is his finest attribute as a singer. Singing in a combination of French and English, he's warm and likeable on album opener \"Pepito Bleu\", brash and dramatic on \"Russian Attractions\", and tender on \"Draw Your World\". Blue is Tellier delving deep into his inner self, and it makes total sense that he would reflect that in grand, arching vistas.  This, of course, makes Tellier an eminently unrelatable character. When his songs sink into froth see the exasperating, Pink FloydbywayofPhil Collins album closer \"Yes, It's Possible\" there's little to salvage. An accompanying website, L'Alliance Bleue, purports to free minds under the musical guidance of Blue and exposes Tellier (again) for what he's always been: a really savvy marketer. But he's a really savvy marketer with songwriting chops and absolutely zero fear. For the most part, I'll buy what he's selling. "}