{"label":" Ruff Draft","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17891/homepage_large.737e343c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonah Bromwich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rebirth of Detroit","text":" \"Dilla was synonymous with Detroit for all of us and all of us kind of regarded him as a mythic figure.\" Eothen Alapatt, General Manager and A&R, Stones Throw Records Rebirth of Detroit, J Dilla's second posthumous album, is a grandiose reclamation, as Detroit wraps the venerated MC and production pioneer into an inescapable bear hug. He's made, once again, into the figurehead and totem for the oncegreat city. The album holds 21 tracks of classically raw Motor City rap, and all the good and bad that comes with that mythic Michigan territory. Unlike his first posthumous collection, 2009's Jay Stay Paid, most of the tracks on Rebirth have rappers on them, a coterie of Detroit MC's who double as Dilla worshippers. This is occasionally a blessing, but too often subpar rhymes or poor chemistry between multiple rappers disguises what would otherwise be a solid beat. This fervent Motown loyalty means that the beats on the album are vintage, Slum Villageera production, a sound that may have come to define Dilla if swan song Donuts hadn't added another facet to his legacy. They're pure Detroit tracks and, as such, serve as a more conservative collection than those featured on Jay Stay Paid. For the most part, these are pointed hifi beats with bass slaps and sharp snares, samples whittled to a point and deployed with casual precision. This quality, a kind of nonchalant strictness, is a gift of Dilla's he has the same kind of genius for making things look easy, as do the greatest athletes. Listen to the way that loop kaleidoscopes on \"My Victory\" or the rainbow synths and slightly flattened bass on \"Ride With It\". Check the vintage menace of the Jaylib sound on \"Say My Name\", \"City of Boom\", or \"Do It Right\". Every beat here is perfectly calibrated, reflecting an impressive, inborn discipline, one that Dilla would eventually leave behind in favor of a looser, messier sound. One of the great things about Dilla's group Slum Village was the way that T3 and Baatin rapped quietly, with plenty of negative space available to give Jay Dee's beats the spotlight they deserved. It makes for a good litmus test to check how true the MC's on Rebirth are to that formula. Sometimes on an individual song, one rapper will stay chilled out, while another will rap his verses completely oblivious to the dynamic as on \"Detroit Game\", where Cool Kid Chuck Inglish exercises restraint to great effect, only to find the second verse ruined by one Boldy James, who raps rigidly, refusing to let the track breathe.    Then too, there's the problem of Dilla dogma. For the best example, take \"Dillatroit\", on which a trio of rappers sandwich a chorus of Detroit pride with undignified shots at Charles Hamilton, who had the gall to claim a J Dilla production credit on his debut album, This Perfect Life. Just to give you an idea of the way they hold grudges in Detroit, this blasphemy was committed all the way back in 2009. And yet Hamilton (who has all but disappeared from rap) still finds an entire verse dedicated to him on a song that's supposed to pay tribute. The best moments come when Dilla's music is allowed to breathe, complemented by a competent artist. There's nothing quite like hearing a talented rapper rip through one of his beats. The highlight here is Danny Brown on \"Jay Dee's Revenge\".  There's no perfunctory Dilla or Detroit shoutouts on the song; just an ill beat with a burbling mess of bass, sparkling keys, and a perverted madman rhyming his ass off. Other highlights include the onetwo punch of soul and instrumental tracks \"Let's Pray Together\" and \"Requiem\", both of which show a bit more of the producer's range. \"Let's Pray Together\" in particular is a reminder of the best of neosoul, as Detroit legend Amp Fiddler croons smoothly over slow, descending funk. There are other worthwhile tracks like the elegant \"Detroit Madness\" or \"Do It for Dilla Dawg\", which, despite being saddled with that name, finds Dilla's little brother Illa J and old friend Frank Nitt overcoming cliché and showing real love. But when at least 16 of 21 songs are dedicated to the same subject, it's pretty easy to pick out tracks that should have been pruned.   The quote at the top comes from the Stussy documentary on Dilla, which was released in 2010. Though it seems pretty cut and dry, it shows up in the part of the movie where Dilla's friends and collaborators are speculating on why he moved to Los Angeles, most of them surprised that someone so firmly attached to Detroit would leave his hometown. House Shoes, another Detroit transplant, whose DJing is referenced on the penultimate track, ends up supplying the answer. \"The Detroit shit'll wear you out,\" he says. \"Cats want to come out here... and get the love that they never got in their own city.\" Six years after his death, Dilla gets that love in full on Rebirth of Detroit. But the exhausting nature of the record, and the somewhat limited portrait of Dilla's work that it leaves behind, reminds us why he moved. Your hometown defines you only as much as you let it but when you're gone, those left behind are free to enshrine you, creating hagiography that's at once adoring and dehumanizing. As an artist, Dilla was defined by his need for growth, constantly evolving. But once you're cast in stone, it becomes pretty difficult to move. "}