{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17894/homepage_large.0174d7e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Blues Control","title":"Valley Tangents","text":" To say that Blues Control make exactly the music the duo wants to make seems at first a mere tautology. Don't all bands make the music they want to make? Isn't that a if not the purpose of being in a band, to produce the sound you want to hear in the world? To an extent, sure it is, but most acts operate within clear aesthetic parameters, stylistic constructs that give them direction, classification, and a targetable market.  But aside from several broad qualifiers, very little unites the works of Russ Waterhouse and Lea Cho, either in their previous electronic entropy act Watersports or paneverything pairing Blues Control. Their albums are instrumental, yes, and generally mix Cho's erudite piano playing with Waterhouse's blearyeyed multiinstrumental tendencies on guitar, synthesizer, and tapes. They are also psychedelic in their nonlinear, textural escapes. Still, across four albums and several splits and singles, Waterhouse and Cho have waded into various and manifestly disconnected deeps. Their selftitled debut volleyed from astral sweep (\"Migration\") and gurgled beats (\"Hummum\") to the distorted stoner grind of closer \"No Sweat\". Their third and most insistent record, 2009's Local Flavor, opened with a cut that nearly made good on the \"blues\" claim of their name, boogiewoogie piano bouncing around triumphant guitar vamps. It ended, however, with \"On Through the Night\", a 17minute stretch that wound its way through webs of noise, churchorgan glow, harmonica howl, and beats that broke open into the noisy infinite.  The close of Local Flavor certainly didn't presage Valley Tangents, then, Blues Control's fourth album, first for Drag City and first since escaping New York for Lehigh Valley, Penn. Instead, this opens with real drums courtesy of indefatigable percussionist Tatsuya Nakatani, who digs deep into a Latin groove for the start of \"Love's a Rondo\". Suggesting Vince Guaraldi leading an acidjazz workshop, the tune bounces on springs, Cho dancing above Nakatani's groove with nimble variations. Around it all, Waterhouse applies a generously kaleidoscopic sound pastel synthesizers and neon guitar, saturating the scene with weird light. Especially for a pair of musicians who emerged from a crowd and moment known more for sonic intrigue than technical skills, the playing here is astonishing. Cho and Waterhouse parallel and counter each other's themes in the last 90 seconds as though they were the Dead operating on a strict timetable.  That upped technical ante seems to be the true unifier of Valley Tangents, an album that gleans from prog, noise, baroque, hiphop and more at will. \"Iron Pigs\" trusses the ruptures of 80s hiphop rippers Death Comet Crew to the swivel of Neu! and a sense of playfulness that such references often preclude. \"Walking Robin\" decorates a simple melody and rhythm with complicated accompaniment; lowend rumble that sends the theme the other way, harpsichord splashes that tweak the time, a guitar solo that swallows itself. If that's an overload of signifiers, that's how Blues Control's music still sometimes seems restless to a fault, more aware of making a point about postmodern music than making that music itself stick. \"Love's a Rando\" manages to push past that, as does the blissedout reverie of \"Opium Den/Fade to Blue\". At its weakest points, Blues Control becomes the sort of bust band that's interesting to hear once and ponder, rather than simply set to repeat. Perhaps that's why the album's quietest and most reserved moment, \"Open Air\", is also its most intriguing, both as a sixminute listen and as a suggestion of Blue Control's growth outside of New York's din. Over heavy tape hiss, Cho's fingers drift along her piano, hints of a restrained Chopin étude eventually tumbling forward into the emphatic streams of notes and stops that Keith Jarrett made his solo trademark. Waterhouse creeps in, tucking his synthesizer glow between the piano's patter and the recording's hiss. He eventually adds bass (chiseled phrases, like Jaco on a dimmer) and the slightest tickle of percussion. If you're waiting for Blues Control to get strange here, keep waiting: \"Open Air\" sighs into silence after six minutes, suggesting that Waterhouse and Cho now know that they don't need to be outlandish or aggressively inclusive to be interesting. And that, more than anything, seems to be the kind of music Blues Control are bound, determined, and once again able to make.  "}