{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17898/homepage_large.443e7c45.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Taragana Pyjarama","title":"Tipped Bowls","text":" Most of Taragana Pyjarama's first fulllength album has a direct reference point in numerous other electronic albums released over the past few years. That's not a criticism. If anything, one of the best compliments I can pay Tipped Bowls is that it sounds like ten albums I've heard before, but there's no single album that sounds just like it. It is pretty, tinkly, swirly and feels as though it's all taking place in something the size of a petri dish disco for microbes, maybe. Four Tet's There Is Love in You, Gold Panda's Lucky Shiner, elements of Isolée and the Field, Mount Kimbie's politely stunning 2009 EPs: They're all reference points, but none of them is copied so brashly that Tipped Bowls ever feels redundant. Think of it, then, as a frame for a style that has been floating around for a few years now but never organized so carefully: a testament to the ways artists can be almost as effective when curating familiar sounds as they can when trying to create something totally new. Let's go back to small and pretty: If you do not like small and pretty, you will probably not like Tipped Bowls. When I say small and pretty, I mean it in a fairly conservative sense. Autumn leaves, porcelain tea sets, lace dresses, tropical fish, soap bubbles: Tipped Bowls is interested in these things, and not interested in making them any more complicated than they are. What saves it from sounding precious is the way in which it uses small, pretty things to create chaos. Tracks like \"Growing Forehead\" or my personal favorite, \"Ballibat\", are filled with highwire moments when all the pops, fizzes, and scattering melodies feel like they're about to pull apart only to come back together again. The instability in the music is what makes it exciting. It's a strategy as old as jazz. The novelty here is scale: To an ant, falling confetti must look terrifying. Being small isn't the same as being cute a difference Tipped Bowls mines beautifully. Certain tracks stand out, but one of the album's virtues is that it's all of a piece there's even a track broken into a \"Part 1\" and \"Part 2\" if you needed guidance on how to take it in. Nothing on it bangs, but nothing drifts, either even the ambient passages hinge on traditional tension and release. It's good homelistening music, and even better for a car or train commute that might highlight both its natural sense of motion and the way that motion shapes the album over 45 minutes. Tipped Bowls feels like a minor record, partially by design. It never grabs you by the throat. It never gives you something totally new to consider. It's also highly listenable, and has a way of slipping in through the side door that I admire. It's also probably Kompakt's best release in a while, and for them, a nice but appropriately small shift from the music they built their name on during the first part of the 2000s. Call it a victory; keep the \"v\" lowercase. "}