{"label":" Late Night Tales","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17901/homepage_large.3ffcec1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tom Findlay","title":"LateNightTales Presents Music for Pleasure","text":" Around 2005 and 2006, an online video series called \"Yacht Rock\" circulated around the thenimmature social media. The show focused on humorously fictionalized versions of the lives of late1970s musicians like Kenny Loggins, Michael McDonald, Toto, and Hall and Oates. Their music shared a feeling as much as a sound: this was music made by men with long, curly hair and mustaches that were flecked with recently inhaled cocaine. It was from L.A., crafted in expensive studios and played by firstcall pros who could fall into a smooth groove at will. The music was rhythmic and spacious and kissed by soul and litefunk, but it steered away from R&B grit. Though the people making the music lived decadent lives and considered themselves post60s rebels of a kind, their aesthetic fit perfectly on adult contemporary radio. It's been soothing the souls of office drones in the break room ever since. Six years later, the LateNightTales series is releasing a yacht rock primer, created by Tom Findlay of the London duo Groove Armada, of all people. Findlay has put together 18 tracks, performed some light edits, and created some easygoing transitions so the whole thing flows like a single piece. Strictly speaking, the set bobs around the aquacolored borders of yacht rock proper and touches on singersongwriter balladry and something approaching true funk. But the laidback Cali vibes are there throughout, even when the artist in question is from somewhere else entirely. As a unified collection built around an idea, the set succeeds. However, it's not perfect: The compilation's problems are twofold. Findlay generally forgoes the deep cuts and presents songs that have been on continuous loop in that office break room for 25 years plus. Steve Miller's \"Fly Like an Eagle\", Michael McDonald's immortal \"I Keep Forgettin' (Every Time You're Near)\" (the subject of a very funny episode of \"Yacht Rock\", which traced the song's evolution and reemergence as the beat for Warren G's \"Regulate\"), Player's \"Baby Come Back\", Boz Scaggs' \"Lowdown\", Ambrosia's \"You're the Only Woman (You & I)\". Even if these names mean nothing to you, you'll know these tracks when they show up here, such is their ubiquity as background music. And Findlay's edits and transitions can't cover up the fact that we've simply heard these songs too much. He doesn't create a context where we can hear them with fresh ears. The second issue is that, because these tracks are mostly so well known and easily available, this edition of LateNightTales, slight retouching aside, winds up feeling more like a Spotify playlist than a proper mix that costs money to hear. Which makes sense, given the highly functional nature of the contents: playlists exist for specific reasons and are not by and large about \"expression.\" That said, I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy this set every time I put it on. Despite the familiarity and easily parodied context of the source material, it works; it does what it was designed to do, probably due to the fact that recording and recordmaking were at their technological zenith in the late 70s and early 80s. People had component stereos. They wanted music to sound good in their living rooms. The music industry was flush with cash. And multitrack tape recording had finally come into its own as a medium. All of which is to say that the bass, drums, and keyboards of virtually all of these songs are beautifully recorded and mixed, and if you're wired a certain way, hearing them rendered can be in an emotional experience in and of itself. In another few years after these tracks were cut, we'd have CDs and gated drums and the loudness wars. And the odd yacht rock revivalist track, even when enjoyable, mostly just made you think of what was missing. Say what you will about the denizens of those late 70s studios, but they knew how to record a rhythm section. "}