{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17917/homepage_large.72579af1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Laura Snapes","artist":"Niki and the Dove","title":"Instinct","text":" It's a universal pop truth that songs about the thrill of the club rarely live up to the urgent abandon induced by a night's hard dancing. Two years ago, Swedish duo Niki and the Dove aka Malin Dahlström and Gustaf Karlöf struck a rare and peculiar seam with the release of their debut single, \"DJ, Ease My Mind\", on British indie label Moshi Moshi. Over militaristic clattering drums and swathes of pristine synthesizers (think the Knife's precision blown up to Eurovision Song Contest size), Dahlström pleads, \"I want to forget, I want lights to blind me... I want to disappear,\" imploring the DJ to let calm flood her soul by playing a jam that takes her back to a time laced with romantic triumphs. \"DJ…\" is spectacular because it doesn't just feel like a song made for your own euphoric moments in the wee hours; rather, it's a force that bolts your heart to Malin's and forces it to pulse along with hers. Two years in the making, Niki and the Dove's debut album, Instinct, has a borderline greedy hitrate where all 12 of its songs (not counting the two bonus numbers on the U.S. release) manage to be equally arresting, flitting between the sound of Fleetwood Mac, Prince, Cyndi Lauper, and trashy Europop, while delighting in tiny but pivotal moments, sites of emotional precipices and tremendous, historymaking passions. Quality aside, there's a reason why all these songs feel so immediate: Two years is a long time to wait to release a debut album (particularly when Dahlström and Karlöf have been working together in various guises for over a decade), and 11 of these 12 songs have already been given away for free online, or released in EP form. Only the dramatic oriental strut of \"Love to the Test\" is truly new (though new versions of previously heard songs are present), a fullbodied seduction where Dahlström catches a guy's eye across the room, sasses him into giving her his number along with the time, then calls \"Touchdown!\" asking, \"Are you ready for this woman?\" hand undoubtedly on hip. The lack of new material does make Instinct feel like a consolidation effort, perhaps aimed at grasping for the continued attentions of newer fans, but that's certainly not a complaint. If anything, it's a justification of sorts for the sea of Björk comparisons that's followed the duo since the beginning. Although invoking the Icelandic innovator is usually hamfisted shorthand for \"kooky woman pop,\" there are plenty of experimental leanings here and in Niki and the Dove's live show that suggest a weirder future for the pair, in similar fashion to how Björk began her solo career in the mid 1990s. There's not quite an \"It's Oh So Quiet\" on Instinct, but there are plenty of enormous, joyous moments that come close enough to that sensation, with plenty more going on than in your common or garden banger. The victorious \"Tomorrow\" opens the LP, followed by \"The Drummer\", where a highpitched sonar blip needles through thundering synthesizer sashays, Dahlström's drumlike heart powering her assault across a topography of nerves and difficult decisions. \"The Fox\" jabs like a razorsharp ballet, bloody cello chopping beneath gloaming synthesizers as Dahlström asks a fourlegged beast to bury to bury her fears so that she might sleep. The dark grind of \"Under the Bridges\" transports her back to a dark and dangerous zone on a city's edge where a friend confesses a secret that remains untold. It doesn't matter what it is there's something about the visceral, elemental nature of Niki and the Dove's production that takes you right there, shivering and pulling the collar of your coat close as wind whips under the viaduct. They pull you into the back of the cab on \"Last Night\", too, where you're a gooseberry gamely drawing hearts in the window condensation as the protagonists get \"married in a taxi,\" Dahlström steeling her heart against getting too attached by invoking the scorn of Stevie Nicks circa Bella Donna. It's not difficult to spot the fact that the situations described in most of Niki and the Dove's songs take place at night, which is rarely a zone of abject fear for the characters within, but a canvas against which to conquer anxieties and triumph romantically. On the soft, Princelike stroke of \"In Our Eyes\", Dahlström sings, \"I'm the night now, but I will shelter you,\" as if she's a wise sage offering protection. If the night is an embrace in which to seek succor and work out complex thoughts, then the nightclub of Niki and the Dove's breakout hit seems by default a kind of transcendental, heavenly zone where the most intense and vital decisions get their hearing. It's fitting, then, that they've made an album against which it's easy to imagine having similar experiences. "}