{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17912/homepage_large.84511d41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Milk Maid","title":"Mostly No","text":" It might feel as though, between powerhouse records like Ty Segall's Slaughterhouse and Hair, and likeminded acts including King Tuff, Spacin', and White Fence proper, there might not be much room in 2012 for Manchester, England's Martin Cohen, whose band Milk Maid has gone and offered up its second LP in the midst of a welcome glut of high quality, freewheeling garage rock. Unlike those aforementioned dudes, Cohen is pretty bythebook: On Mostly No, there are no scuzzbag rockabilly numbers, no fuzz wars, no ambient brainslushers. There are some gnarly raveups, for sure, but none worthy of a record sleeve sporting a beskulled, axewielding bat. Instead of shooting from the hip, Cohen prefers to shoot straight, using a triedandtrue DIY template he recorded the album at home on 16track tape, with a band that sounds less crack than cozily livedin to expand on the ideas he put forth on last year's debut LP, Yucca. Things are so crowded these days, it seems as if the only way to sop up all the sweat is with a tattered freak flag. But for Cohen, standing out seems to come by way of blending into the bigger picture, utilizing simple, timehonored song structures and tempos to write solid, straightforward songs that feel loose and organic, but still thoroughly considered. Less grownover with static than his previous effort, Mostly No isn't afraid to slow things down and let a little light in. Take centerpiece \"Bad Luck\", a lurching, bottomheavy cut that offsets its own bornin disaffection with a dusty kind of freespiritedness that Tom Petty could probably get along with. It's not the best song on the album, but rather a convenient guidepost that points to Cohen's focus here: No frills, no dicking around, just the solid rendering of a quality recipe, with plenty of spotlight reserved for guitars that sound as if they're testing high levels of radon. Cohen really writes only three kinds of songs on Mostly No: the fouronthefloor thrashers, the strummy acoustic numbers (mostly skippable save for \"Pictures of Stone\", which gives him the chance to try on a pretty goodlooking desert mystic's cloak), and the midtempo jams that give him a little room to try and explore and spread his wings a bit. Mostly No is a record that eschews any manic highs or crushing lows in favor of an affable sort of middle ground, and usually with pretty welcoming results. \"Your Neck Around Mine\" and \"Stir So Slow\" (which features a nifty little solo that sounds like a werewolfpawed Neil Young noodling around) are slow(er)riders evocative of acts like the War on Drugs and Kurt Vile, spiked with a refreshing splash of golden FMdial haze. But on the nearly fiveminutelong (and perhaps too aptly titled) \"Old Trick\", the format feels a bit draggy, as Cohen tries to conjure up a climax but only manages to squeak out an \"in case you missed it\" kind of recap. Sure, Mostly No is a record that works largely in part thanks to Cohen's finding his comfort zone and hitting a slack sweetspot, but it's psychlite tracks like \"Old Trick\" that could still benefit from a zap of goforbroke energy. So it's safe to say that the more raucous shit really helps open things up. Leadoffs \"Dopamine\" and \"Do Right\" are perfectly calibrated for the season, burning hot and extraheavy like beach anthems for the dirty kids who'd rather sit up on the boardwalk and smoke. Even better is the onetwo punch of \"Summertime\" and \"Drag to Find\", the latter of which is even more blissful, humid, and blownout in the most perfectly cottony manner. If you are stoned and/or own a beater of an old convertible, you're going to want to get in on this action immediately. Still, these tracks are part of a bigger, very well proportioned plate, and come off more as complimentary rather than standout when set aside on their own. It's a testament to Cohen's ability to create a cohesive, engaging listen it just so happens that it's one better taken in a single dose. But as far as bringing the goods on a sophomore release goes, well, the answer is mostly yeah. "}