{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/17914/homepage_large.d0f9f0e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Thompson","artist":"Sonny and the Sunsets","title":"Longtime Companion","text":" Longtime Companion, the third LP from San Francisco garagepoppers Sonny and the Sunsets, came to be after main man Sonny Smith and his girlfriend of a decade parted ways. Breakup records tend toward the the maudlin and the oversharey, a place to air out all that darknightofthesoul stuff over a couple of heartbroken chords. It's a loose template, to be sure, but it's all a far cry from the eternally bemused Smith's permagrin. For Longtime Companion, Smith and his Sunsets have upended their warm, wornin oldiesnodding pop for an expansive, lightly psychedelic spin on 1970s countryrock, while whittling away much of the charmingly goofy eccentric uncle humor that peppered 2010's Tomorrow Is Alright and last year's Hit After Hit. But where most breakup albums aim directly for the rawest nerve, throughout Longtime, Smith keeps a characteristically cool head. Smith's best songs often take the form of wily character studies or bizarro Vonnegutian inventions, like the murderous unguent at the heart of \"Death Cream\". Delving directly into affairs of the heart for Longtime Companion is quite a leap for the often onestepremoved Smith, and it's one he gamely sidesteps. Whether it's the (slightly randy) zoological metaphors of \"Year of the Cock\" or the \"funny kind of sad joy\" expressed amidst the blank shuffle of \"I See the Void\", Smith seems to be keeping most of the hows and whys to himself, dodging confession with emotional fencesitting and silly stuff about roosters. Oh, sure, there are at least a couple of clues as to what happened: His exbaby's a divorcee, and Smith's the one who made her that way, and when they see each other around town, he's going to pretend that they're still together. But the more pointed stuff is outmatched by a wellworn, broadly drawn malaise that, in this age of Harvey Levin, doesn't give much away. This is where Longtime gets frustrating; a Blood on the Tracksstyle bilespew might be asking too much from a laidback character like Smith, but he's leaving more out of provocatively titled songs like \"Dried Blood\" or \"My Mind Messed Up\" than he's keeping in, holding the listener at just enough distance to make it easy to sympathize but next to impossible to truly relate. Still, taken as a set of wouldbe sadsack standards, Longtime perks up considerably. The record's sound is warm and lush; with its gorgeous swaths of flute and haloencircled backup vocals, \"Pretend You Love Me\" having first appeared in tauter form on last year's Hit is the kind of song you want to float around in for a while. The Sunsets are, as ever, a subtly dazzling musical unit, and there's nary a wasted note throughout Longtime's half hour and change. And, though Smith's cool demeanor and apparent aversion to letting it all hang out keep Longtime Companion from feeling particularly personal, it just makes the few moments where his voice breaks all the more affecting. The record's easygoing pace, sturdy songwriting, and sunbaked production make it the third solid effort from the Sunsets. Still, it's the least of the three, retreating from Smith's stellar storysongs for an album that seems somewhat reluctant to tell its own tale. "}