{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17904/homepage_large.0b2dff10.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"The Thing / Neneh Cherry","title":"The Cherry Thing","text":" When she released her 1989 debut album, the clubfriendly, socially conscious, and magnetically charismatic Raw Like Sushi, there were early indicators that Neneh Cherry was embarking upon a career of coloring outside the lines. Two decades later, it feels much less important to mention that the album which featured the immortally cool, oftenimitated, neverduplicated hit single \"Buffalo Stance\" earned her a Brit Award for Best International Solo Artist than it does to tell you that she had the award melted down and made into jewelry, some of which she gave to her fellow nominees. \"I gave Jazzie B a piece,\" she explained later, \"Because Soul II Soul kicked ass that year.\" Then again, there were even earlier indicators. Cherry was raised by her stepfather, free jazz pioneer Don Cherry, and her upbringing was as unconventional, wellconnected and precociously musical as you'd imagine. From an early age, she and her siblings accompanied Cherry on the tour bus, hanging out with Ornette Coleman and any other jazz legends who happened to be around (age four: \"[Miles Davis] lifted me up on his lap... and I sat on his snakeskin suit\"). At 14, she toured as a backup singer for tribal punk firebrands the Slits; two years later, she formed a punk group of her own, Rip Rig + Panic. Cherry's subsequent solo output was, predictably, unpredictable: three records that blended hiphop, triphop, bebop with spirited, genreagnostic abandon. Her disinterest in more conventional pop success relegated her to onehitwonder status in the U.S., but, as the more adventurous fans who followed her through the 90s know, it freed her up to graze more interesting territory. And Cherry's collaborators on her first fulllength in 16 years are wild horses in their own right. The freewheeling, punkinfluenced Scandanavian jazz trio the Thing (named for a Don Cherry song) are to avantgarde jazz what Nico Muhly basically is to classical music: preternaturally talented upstarts with respect on their highbrow home turf but also plenty of indie cred by association. The Thing have jammed with Thurston Moore and Jim O'Rourke, and they've got some exhilaratingly knotty PJ Harvey, White Stripes, and Lightning Bolt covers in their repertoire.  So, somehow, The Cherry Thing, the album that the freespirited pop star and the impish free jazz ensemble made together, is not the indulgent, impenetrable mess that you might expect; just the opposite, actually. It's a remarkably welldefined, cohesive, and above all things inviting listen, and at eight tracks it feels neither slight nor needlessly sprawling. Consisting almost entirely of covers and concocted from an unpretentious, nofrills sonic palette, The Cherry Thing is an exercise of the freedom you can invent within certain limits. Can you create new sensations from wellworn material? Is anything so sacred that you can't melt it down into jewelry? Naturally, the covers included on the album are as genreagnostic as the artists who chose them. There's a Stooges classic, an Ornette Coleman track, a song from Madvillainy, and, sparking with raw, electric energy (every track was recorded in a single take), each one is a live wire. Cherry's loose but rhythmically agile vocals wrestle with Mats Gustaffson's wild saxophone riffs; they occasionally convene to share the melody (as on one of two originals, Gustaffson's \"Sudden Moment\"). More often, they dance around each other in spasms of controlled chaos. Paal NilssenLove on drums and Ingebright HakerFlaten on the double bass keep things grounded. There's something especially earthysounding about their rhythm section and HakerFlaten's playing in particular, as though he were plucking not strings but vines strung up between trees. As all of these dynamic moving parts try their best to step in time, their terrific, lurching take on the Stooges' \"Dirt\" has the deliberate, menacing stomp of a 10foot swamp monster learning how to walk. Veering from low, jazzy trills to sharp spoken word, Cherry's vocals are phenomenally expressive: On the cover of Madvillain's \"Accordian\", she sounds like Billie Holiday at a poetry slam. The original \"Accordian\" fades out shy of two minutes, and Doom's surreal imagery, clocktick beat and hereandthenit'sgone duration give it the hazy magic of a naptime dream. The Cherry Thing's \"Accordian\" utterly transformed is three times as long, as though that clock's been chucked out of the room. Cherry tiptoes on, off, and around the beat, reveling in every line. \"Keep your glory, gold, and glitter,\" she wrenches first into a chorus, then into a mantra. Cherry is recording a solo album that's slated for release later in the year, and although she and the Thing are playing a few shows together this summer, it's likely The Cherry Thing will be a oneoff: a solid souvenir of what sounds like a pretty fun fourday jam. Still, more than just a forgettable pit stop in two wildly careening careers, The Cherry Thing captures some kind of fleeting magic. It's also something of a paradox: a deeply personal covers album. The ghost of the players' shared past, Don Cherry (who died of cancer in 1995), wrote one of the most inspired songs on the album, \"Golden Heart\". For the Thing and Neneh both, it's a tribute to the man who got them started on the wild, uncharted career arcs they're still inventing as they go. As the track subsides, she's crooning his words back to him: \"You live with me in the golden heart.\" "}