{"label":" Monkeytown","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17915/homepage_large.d1b9205b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ruth Saxelby","artist":"Modeselektor","title":"Modeselektion Vol. 02","text":" In the space of two decades, three albums, and collaborations with artists including Thom Yorke and Apparat, Berlin duo Modeselektor's glitchy, experimental techno has taken their vision of Berlin to the world. In doing so, they've helped shape the city's image as our era's clubbing capital. On the second of their Modeselektion compilations, though, they turn away from the dancefloor to a more inward journey. Where Modeselektion Vol. 01 was on a party tip, building bridges between Berlin techno and UK bass, Modeselektion Vol. 02 is a group exercise in sound design. Whether expressly advised or not, there is a definite sense of a theme. There are clues in the inclusions (Monolake, Prefuse 73, Clark, Mouse on Mars) and in the titles (Lazer Sword's \"Landscape\", Phon.o's \"Fukushima\", Addison Groove's \"Manic Miner\"). Here are a set of tracks with a shared desire to build tangible spaces for absorbed exploration; staticlaced landscapes navigable by echolocation. Rather than entice you to the dancefloor, they pull you forward, and in, with varying degrees of success. The ordering, it has to be said, is seamless: Each track traces elements of the one before and takes them somewhere new. But, as with most journeys, there is an inspired beginning, an eventual epiphany, and a lot of getting lost in the middle. The opening rumble of Egyptrixx's \"Levitate\" set the pace, and place: an eerily barren recess of the mind that nevertheless offers some strange comfort. From the beginning, it's clear this is an album made with headphones in mind. Don't even think about laptop speakers; all that labored and it often feels labored detail would be lost. Nor would a club space, with all those distracting bodies, afford the close listening this record desires. \"Levitate\" makes way for the vivid marshlands of Monolake's \"Hitting the Surface\", gunshots rippling out across the water. In Monolake's wake, it gets a little muddy, a little samey, for a stretch, save for Mouse on Mars' Glasgowinfluenced \"Humoslab\" and Sound Pellegrino Thermal Team's \"Activate\", which comes off like a big, wet kiss after all that sleepwalking.  That's the thing about this record: The innerspace exploration is enjoyable to a point, but it comes with an underlying claustrophobia and, at times, a weariness. With so much focus on the micro detail, the bigger picture's been neglected, and ultimately it feels a little tired. Despite fragments of the outside world, it presents a strangely insular scene: a vision of the world that's selfcontained, selfcontent, and, now and then, selfindulgent. Most telling, Modeselektor's own contribution is a fourandahalf minute growling beast culled from a 45minute jam session. There's a sense here that the process was perhaps always going to be more satisfying for the creator than the listener. Thankfully, there is some respite at the record's close courtesy of the rise and fall of Prefuse 73's buried, lightinjecting melodies, Jan Driver's pushandpull string odyssey, and Anstam's darkly ecstatic, chimetimed dream. The latter's title, \"Observing the Patterns\", would make a suitable subtitle to Modeselektion Vol. 02, a collection of tracks orbiting an inbetween land. "}