{"label":" Mad Decent","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17923/homepage_large.c61cbbca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Bonde Do Rolê","title":"Tropical/Bacanal","text":" It was easy to assume Brazilian club brats Bonde Do Rolê would never make it to a second album. Their first, 2007's With Lasers, was everything you'd probably want out of a drunken party. Innocently horny. Up for anything. Vaguely illicit but basically nonthreatening. Fueled by loud, dumb, grungy beats, as if artschool punks had suddenly fixed on hiphouse as the way forward circa 1989. And over before everything got stale, ugly, and embarrassing.  Unsubtle would be an understatement, and it certainly wasn't for every occasion. But if you needed to disengage your thinking brain and rock out to pompmetal riffs, With Lasers was there for you that summer. It didn't leave Bonde many places to go, though. Who wanted to hear these sexedup goofs grappling with aging and ambition? Their music was about unashamed crude enthusiasm, which generally promises a few killer singles rather than a multialbum career.  Stranger and cruder acts than Bonde have matured in interesting ways, though. Five years have passed since With Lasers, and a total sonic overhaul would be necessary to make Tropicalbacanal anything other than nostalgia for grubby bacchanals gone by. Which, luckily, is what we get, and it's a very good thing expanding Bonde's range in a major way without totally losing the head banging and hip thrusting that give them purpose. Dervish frontwoman Marina Ribatski is out, replaced by singer Laura Taylor, who the other Bondes found via open auditions in Brazil. In theory, Marina's absence should strip a lot of the personality from Bonde's music. In actuality, not so much. As a live presence, Marina had moxie to spare. On record, she couldn't quite get that onstage intensity across all the time. The chirpy Taylor has enough moxie of her own, and Bonde wisely drafted in a few ringers to add some global color. And global color is what this album is all about. Musically, Tropicalbacanal is bright as neon paint splashed against white walls, with hooks that make it as mindlessly enjoyable as a daylong piña colada session on one of those indie rock booze cruises. It's party music, pure and simple. The expiration date for this album is still sometime around when the weather gets cold. But it's also adventurous and audacious and assured, an album you may actually pull out next summer, a big leap from a band many had probably written off. It's beach music made by people who've grown up with \"beach music\" as a cultural heritage, but who don't feel the need to keep that heritage pure.  Grappling with their country's musical history doesn't exactly mean these kids have transmogrified into Milton Nascimento overnight, but it does mean they have certain standards to live up to. Brazilian don Caetano Veloso shows up at one point, and it says something that he fits neatly into the mix, rather than shaming the Bondes with an offhand display of olddude skillfulness. And it probably helps that Brazil's vintage beach music is so melodically dense and polyrhythmically colorful. You can't just strum a few lazy surf chords, affect a Brian Wilson vocal, and call it a day. \"Puco\" barrels along, feeling loose and airy, even as it tries to pack as much detail into 2:15 as possible: multiple zigzagging lines of rhythm, guitars zinging across the beat, whistling, stuff that sounds like whistling but might be flutes, callandresponse vocals, something approximating a song. It's a tightly wound sound that requires work to feel so playful. Bonde's rap influence is downplayed in general across Tropicalbacanal. We get it in brief but potent bursts, and it helps that the guest rappers can actually rap, unlike the charming but goony cargocult approximation Bonde were peddling before. The delirious horndogging of \"Brazilian Boys\" comes off fierce rather than silly, thanks to moonlighting Jamaican MC Ce'Cile's nobullshit performance, and Das Racist's Kool A.D. sounds tighter than he has in a while on his brief cameo in \"Bang\". The beats are far more varied than the eventually deadening baile funk stomp that ruled With Lasers. \"Kanye\" starts as an inexplicable mash of accordion, sampled chicken squawks, and robotically processed singing, only to explode into a headbanging soca track, the accordion still oompahing along at punk rock speed. And if some songs initially sound like paintbynumbers Tropicália, there's usually a modern rhythmic idea banging around the corner.  This is also very much a guitar record, one that goes in far weirder, wilder directions than the cheesy buttrock bites on Bonde's first album. Despite that aforementioned verse from Kool A.D., \"Bang\" actually sounds more like radioready garage rock, building not to a fuzz freakout but something like a Yosemite Sam gunfight in a Looney Tunes short. Distant kin to the Modern Lovers' \"Egyptian Reggae\", \"Kilo\" is a slice of catchy ethnic fakery, first wave rock'n'roll as imagined by an isolated garage band somewhere in Southeast Asia. And then reimagined by a bunch of cheeky Brazilian kids who grew up with dancehall on their iPods. That cultural jumbling was always what Bonde was about, mixing hiphouse with Alice in Chains, but they've never been as goforbroke about it as they are here, or cast so widely in search of hooks.  Tropicalbacanal is not a reverent retro record by any means, though it voraciously eats up influences from across the globe, and from throughout pop history. If it looks back to Brazilian classics from the 60s and 70s, it also mutates them via 21stcentury sounds, and pumps them full of a lot of perverse personality. But only in flashes does it sound like the Bonde you know. Maybe it's a good thing if you come to this record with no preconceptions, because it often feels like the work of a new band looking to prove itself, and pulling it off. "}