{"label":" Bella Union","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17924/homepage_large.fd0725a1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Van Dyke Parks","title":"Song Cycle","text":" If you've heard any of Van Dyke Parks' solo records in your life, your first reaction was likely some variant on \"I don't get it.\" That's okay, you weren't supposed to. At the time of their release (the late 1960s and early 1970s), Parks was part of a crowd of mercurial genius weirdos wandering recordlabel halls; of this group, Parks could easily have been voted Least Likely to Succeed. (He probably would have volunteered himself for the honor.) The records he issued under his own name had a cheerful Mt. Olympus aura about them: They sat contentedly in rarefied air, budging for no one but graciously welcoming any travelers who hazarded the journey. Over the ensuing decades, this is where they've remained: known vaguely by reputation, namechecked for erudition, never playing at parties. Every five years or so, some devotee does some of Parks's publicity work for him; Joanna Newsom hired him to orchestrate Ys and spoke with awe of listening repeatedly to Parks' Song Cycle while Ys fermented in her mind. But otherwise, Parks' solo records have always seemed destined to be known more for their influence, celebrated more for the big ideas they dislodged in the minds of others rather than for themselves. Recently, however, Parks has begun attending to his own solo legacy. Last year, he put out the compilation Arrangements, Vol. 1 on his own Bananastan label; it was a reintroduction of sorts, and a prudent place to begin. Immediately ingratiating and full of pop songs, Arrangements hinted at the knottiness of Parks' vision. Still, as a primer for Song Cycle, Discover America, and Clang of the Yankee Reaper, which Parks has now reissued, Arrangements is adequate only insofar as dipping your toes in a wading pool is preparation for leaping from a cliff into a raging sea. 1968's Song Cycle is the big one, the one with the capitalR Reputation. Perfumed, florid, overcrowded, the album is Parks' attempt to synthesize 100 years' worth of American music on borrowed studio time. The album cost a staggering amount and sold next to nothing; with this gesture, he cemented his artistic reputation and sank his career like a stone. Warner Bros. heralded Song Cycle  with a panicky flopsweat flourish disguised as a marketing campaign. The standard line on Song Cycle  is that it's impenetrable, and it can be. But it depends what you're listening for. If you approach it expecting a tuneful singersongwriter album, then you're going to be continually deposited on the top of your own head. If, however, you're looking to take a midnight stroll through a Civil War memorabilia museum, where every figurine and placard suddenly springs to life and begins singing, then you'll feel right at home. Part of Song Cycle's bum rap for seriousness is earned the name itself suggests something too weighty to consider itself a mere \"album.\" But once you adjust to its mannerisms, Song Cycle is a freewheeling, often goofy listen, a downtherabbithole take on American music that reimagines bluegrass on a symphonyhall stage, showtunes up in Appalachia, and the sturmunddrang rumblings of Romanticera classical orchestras facing off against a squeezebox. Richard Henderson, in his 33 1/3 book on Song Cycle, called the album \"Charles Ives in Groucho Marx's pajamas,\" and it captures the antic spirit of an album whose working title, before Song Cycle, was \"Looney Tunes\". Parks doesn't corral all of this mess so much as rattle around cheerfully inside it. You might get lost in a thicket at some point maybe when the orchestra dissolves into pedalsteel guitar, which dissolves into chirping birds on \"Palm Desert\". Or when \"Public Domain\" fades out for the fourth or fifth time, or when a wobbly 78 starts playing in the middle of \"By the People\". But no matter where you are, Parks is ambling just around the corner, like the Cheshire Cat, offering clues. The sixth song on the album is called \"Van Dyke Parks\": It is a recording of the gospel hymnal \"Nearer My God to Thee\", accompanied by the sound of rushing water. What could this possibly mean? Would it help to know that \"Nearer My God to Thee\" is traditionally assumed to be the last song played by the band on the deck of the Titanic? No? This inscrutable bonedry wit is as encoded into Parks' music as his evident love of beauty. His singing voice has a peculiar quality; high and sweet and chipper and fey and dripping with ill will, he plays the part of the wiseguy pipsqueak wandering around a grand manor, surveying the grand artifacts with skepticism. He built the place, but to hear him, you would think he not only had nothing to do with the construction but finds the whole display mildly distasteful. The lyrics of Song Cycle are full of starving artists and privation: \"Widows face the future/ Factories face the poor,\" he remarks jauntily on \"Widow's Walk\". Parks is merely a bohemian with an empty refrigerator; these songs are too nice for him. This tension a distrust of finer things, a respect of their power; an appreciation of their beauty, an understanding that the finer things are inherently ridiculous gives Song Cycle its melancholy depth, corroding its sheen like acid rain on a sculpture. After Song Cycle, Parks disappeared back into his arranging work for four years. It wasn't until 1972 that he dared put out another record with his name on the sleeve. Discover America begins, as Song Cycle did, with a brief clip of someone else's music. On Song Cycle, it was Steve Young hollering the bluegrass staple \"Black Jack Davy\". On Discover America, it is the Trinidadian calypso artist Mighty Sparrow complaining merrily about the perseverance of aging prostitutes in a song called \"Jack Palance\". (As in \"she got a face like.\") The song fades out, and a recorded voice blurts in, dryly, \"here are all of the natives of Parnassus, Pennsylvania.\" Whatever Parks learned from the commercial fiasco that was Song Cycle, it wasn't to tone the weirdness down. The presence of Mighty Sparrow isn't a red herring; Discover America is a Van Dyke Parks calypso record, suffused with wooden marimbas and the cheery ping of steel drums, and overlaid with at least two or three layers of distanced weirdness. Parks treats calypso with the same forensic fascination and trickster spirit he applied to Song Cycle; track four is called \"Steelband Music\", and Parks uses it as a \"Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra\" opportunity, asking us eagerly to pay attention to \"the prominent notes on the tenor pan.\" \"The Four Mills Brothers\", a cover of a Depressionera standard, has more helpful, recordcollector advice for us: \"The best crooner is Rudi Valli/ But for voice control visit Bing Crosby.\" For Parks, discovering America is inseparable from discovering its music. Even more than Song Cycle, Discover America is a vaudevillian stage, across which Parks parades a series of acts. \"Occapella\" and \"Riverboat\" are rumpled, mellow Allen Toussaint covers. \"Sailin' Shoes\", a song written by Little Feat's Lowell George, adopts a ripe, heavylidded sway to describe a woman doing a dance \"so rhythmically\" underneath \"a cocaine tree.\" Parks seems about as unconcerned with the sordid leer of the lyrics here as he does the genteel misogyny of the fatherson advice song \"Be Careful\"; they are all just songs to him, and songs are blameless. On his following record, 1975's Clang of the Yankee Reaper, the bit players and special guests claim the stage. The album contains only one original Van Dyke Parks composition the title track. The rest is a lovely and generously selected songbook record, ranging from the calypso of Mighty Sparrow's \"Pass That Stage\" and Sandpebbles' \"Another Dream\" to Irving Caesar's Tin Pan Alley tune \"You're a Real Sweetheart\". All lovely songs, with lovely performances, but otherwise, it is the leastessential of Parks' first three records. It emerged from his brain, which means it is warped, both structurally and psychologically, but on a scale of more Van Dyke Parks to less, in which Song Cycle is a steep 10 and Discover a more manageable seven, Clang is a mild six. The thrill is in the disorientation, in the genial free fall; Clang offers hardcore seekers of this particular thrill only a gentle breeze in the face. To accompany these reissues, Van Dyke Parks recently performed a show at London's Barbican Theatre. He opened it with a wisecrack about his career, as if to squirt bug spray at anyone with the nerve to canonize him: \"We're here to celebrate anonymity what Faulkner called 'the authority of failure,'\" he cracked. He said something similar to me, in passing, when I spoke to him briefly a few years ago. The repetition leads me to believe it's something of a cocktailnapkin line for him, a droll quip he's cultivated for dinner parties that suggests a deeper worldview. It may be a defense mechanism, a way of handling an illustrious career overshadowed by rock stars. It may also be a curious kind of armor: Van Dyke Parks, the wag who spoke in tongues. I hope that with the reissuing of these seminal records, that Parks won't have reason to pretend to be anonymous and misunderstood for much longer. "}