{"label":" City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17943/homepage_large.72e50423.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rachael Maddux","artist":"Tu Fawning","title":"A Monument","text":" In the rocky chasm between lust and love, it's often the nonevents, the notquitehappenings, that gain emotional weight. These are the concerns of A Monument, the second LP by Portland's Tu Fawning. \"If my skin had scales and colorful details/ We'd travel the roads and never go home,\" Corrina Repp laments on opener \"Anchor\". It seems possible she is a woman who literally desires to be reptilian; trailed by a dry shaker rattle, her voice slinks and coils over big drums and arid, rolling guitar, as if already propelled by a hundred tiny bones. But that wish is also the album's main hangup taken to an extreme: You can't always get what you want, but if you try sometimes, you just might find you can make some dense and darkly lovely music about it. It may seem funny to talk about this band in terms of its lyrical themes. Tu Fawning were originally formed as some experimental woodshed for Portland musicians Repp and Joe Haege (she of a longrunning solo folk career, he of trios Menomena and 31 Knots). Their 2008 debut EP, Secession, and their first proper record, 2010's Hearts on Hold, seemed like sonic moodboards more than anything else scraps of 1920s nightclub jazz, baroque piano flourishes, and the kind of stark percussion that's referred to as \"tribal\" all basted together into patchworks only generally suggestive of coherence, purpose, or an emotional core. (An exception was \"Apples and Oranges\", a pianoheavy, painfully frank song about trying to discern the origins of a basket of fruit but also about reconciling friendship and kindness with the soulstealing tendencies of crippling depression.) On those first releases, strands of \"oohs\" and \"aahs\" threatened to outstrip all instances of the English language, and the words that were there were often buoyed off and away by waves of sound that rolled and arced endlessly and switched back upon themselves. But something happened over the past few years: Tu Fawning became really good at writing honesttogoodness songs. \"Wager\", the album's clear triumph, is the closest the band allowed itself to a pop single, with the giddy guitar crunch of the prechorus leaping straight into the wideopen arms of the big, hopeful chorus: \"There'll be no confusion with this one, I'm certain.\" Overall, A Monument inverts the group's earlier approach, allowing the atmospherics to act in service of the songs rather than necessitating the whole endeavor. \"It was another arcane soiree/ Of debutantes and men with sway,\" Haege sings on \"To Break Into\" over a swell of menacing horns and interlaced ripples of electric guitar; Repp later echoes the same verse before Haege returns with those horns again, and some eerily plaintive piano, all padded out by a crush of guitar, his voice close to a desperate growl, hers cool and smooth. \"Bones\", the album's final track, calls up the hallmarks of both Afropop and woozy, goldenera Black Sabbath, then spills into an ethereal, temposhifting closer, at the end of which it's not difficult to imagine Repp ascending into some bank of sunringed clouds, platinumhaired and beatific. Stylistically, A Monument is no less of a jumble than anything else the band has done Repp and Haege and co. are just better at managing the mess than they were before. Sometimes it seems as if Tu Fawning watched the world watching Florence and the Machine (and/or Beach House, perhaps more analagous in terms of sound and general scope) and thought, \"Time to step it up.\" Or perhaps they're just slowly becoming a better band, which is this funny thing that can happen when artists are given space and time and not crushed under the weight of popular expectation before they have a chance to know their own minds. There's a sense throughout A Monument, like the fugues and false starts that tangle at its heart, that Tu Fawning are on the edge of something pressed against it, blood pounding but, for now, remain suspended in judgement. There's something waiting for them beyond this moment, but there's beauty here, too. "}