{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17942/homepage_large.82d7e0b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"David Banner","title":"Sex, Drugs & Video Games","text":" Almost a year before Kanye West would famously call himself \"the first nigga with a Benz and a backpack,\" Mississippi rapper David Banner furiously and bravely worked out the messy contradictions of Southern rap on an album with a scope so wide he just called it Mississippi: The Album. Its first single was a strip club song called \"Like a Pimp\", and the single that followed it spoke directly to God about reconciling the desire to live \"right\" with wanting to also live like a rapper. On one song he would spit taunts about having fucked someone else's girl, and on another he would pointedly take George W. Bush to task for his record of executions as governor of Texas. Banner didn't necessarily come to many conclusions, but that was the beauty of his work: He was as confused and indignant and answerless about himself and his community as anyone, and as everyone has the right to be. Even in a Southern rap landscape that was more diverse than many people gave it credit for at the time, Banner was a rare bird. Now, he's something much more common: a rapper trying to recapture a spotlight that has long been shut off, and probably isn't coming back on. Killer Mike, who is about as similar an MC to Banner as there is, has shown this year that it's not impossible to make a great rap album that people care about, even if that audience is a fraction of what it once was. But with R.A.P. Music, Killer Mike more or less rejected the entire notion of regaining the fanbase he once had by making the music he once did. Banner, on the other hand, uses Sex, Drugs & Video Games, available as a free download, to cling to past glory, and the result is an album where the contradictions come off as cynical instead of honest. This isn't exactly a surprise, as Banner has with each successive album moved further away from the likable, inspiring man behind Mississippi in favor of chasing whatever trend is hot at the time. But it is still disappointing, as it wouldn't be unreasonable to hope that he would reverse course as ministardom gets smaller and smaller in his rearview. Where he used to be as hard on himself as he was on his peers, Banner now gives himself a pass when convenient. To wit: On \"Swag\" he chastises rap's obsession with that same omnipresent word. In the song, he directly mentions white girls calling rappers the nword, which is of course a perfectly acceptable and necessary topic of discussion. Except \"Swag\" comes two songs after he calls in A$AP Rocky whose breakout song is called \"Purple Swag\", the video for which features a white girl mouthing the nword for a verse. Banner also says that when he dies, he doesn't want to be remembered just for \"Play\", his absurdly raunchy ripoff of \"Wait (The Whisper Song)\". Fair enough, but hoping that people will remember more than just his most crassly commercial hit stands in stark contrast to the two songs here that feature Chris Brown, who starred on Banner's last Billboard hit in 2008. Those two songs (\"Yao Ming\" and \"Amazing\"), with their noxious mixture of trends old (hashtag punchlines) and new (Chris Brown) are so hopelessly formulaic that they're nadirs as much in theory as in execution. There are times where he tries to callback to the days of Mississippi, specifically with three interludes where he addresses himself through the voice of a female robot. He asks himself questions that are legitimate, but the placements are so bizarre that the interludes seem like they're from an entirely different album, if not an entirely different artist. On the first, the robot asks him why, if he would object to his mom or sister being called a bitch, he also uses the term. Fine enough question, if a bit entrylevel, but not only does he not ever provide an answer, he sandwiches the interlude between the two songs where Chris Brown raps about pubes. Another asks him what song of his he would choose to perform in front of God, and that one is for some reason followed by a track where he trades tired bars about California with an epically boredsounding Snoop Dogg (and Snoop will show up for anything and seem happy). Banner still has some of what made him compelling nearly a decade ago, but when those qualities pop up on Sex, Drugs & Video Games, they work only to illustrate how unmoving his music is today. It doesn't have to be this way, of course, as Killer Mike has shown, but until Banner drops the pretense of pop, his output will likely continue to be utterly unrewarding and sadly inessential. "}