{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17945/homepage_large.50c296f5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Royal Thunder","title":"CVI","text":" It's damn near impossible to escape the endless hackneyed tropes about moonshine and Dixie for any Southern band that dares to so much as hint at the blues or that lapses into fuzzy, bowlegged rock'n'roll. Writers love to romanticize Mississippi mud and Georgia moonlight almost as much as they dig namedropping whitewashed rednecks like Skynyrd and Duane Allman: If your singer's got a twang, or the bassist grew up South of the MasonDixon, your fate's been sealed. You can't blame us, though; there is something mystical about the South, something wild and eerie and alluring that outsiders can only hope to taste. When it comes to Dixie's music makers, that old Southern Gothic darkness seeps into the subconscious, and stealthily weaves its silky fingers through guitar strings and around throats. While there is surely no lack of pretenders and charlatans, bands that are both savvy and visceral enough to pull it off are rare. Royal Thunder, Atlanta's freshest sacrifice upon the twin altars of the riff and the roar, have made an admirable attempt to do just that on their first fulllength.  Upon a cursory listen and armed with a metalhead's perspective, this freshfaced quartet comes across like a dialeddown version of Jucifer, with none of their brutality but a far greater emphasis on clear, bewitching feminine vocals. Repeated listens, however, yield far more satisfying fruit. As with so many of the newer femalefronted doomy, rocking, bluesy bands that keep popping up, Royal Thunder's biggest asset is their vocalist. Mlny Parsonz is a nontraditional bluesrock banshee of a woman, equal parts riot grrl and gospel diva. There's a roughhewn, unpolished charm to her delivery and phrasing, and while her arsenal of sugary whispers, angelic coos, and fiery wail serve her well, it's really her willingness to let go, dig deep, and belt it the hell on out that is her greatest strength. She's fortunate to be backed by a solid instrumental section, most notably Josh Weaver's vintage riffwrangling, Zeppelinesque turns, and big, retro vibes. Drummer Lee Smith and bassist Josh Coleman mesh well to provide a rocksolid base for the band's two big musical personalities without fading into the background; Smith especially goes above and beyond, infusing what could be simple rock'n'roll songs with a nice dose of understated technicality. Each song follows a similar formula start slow and low, ease into the buildup, then unchain Parsonz's pipes and let the good times roll. \"Whispering World\" sounds like a Live Through Thisera Courtney Love howling along to \"Kashmir\". \"No Good\" boasts a backbone of urgent, boogie woogie bar rock under a roughedged donemewrong croon, while \"Blue\" is an emphatic nod to oldtime Southern rock, with Parsonz's vocals smoked out and layered into a sweetvoiced choir of knowing innocents. \"South of Somewhere\" is an ominous glance backward at an oncoming storm, with Parsonz summoning the rain and Weaver's muted thrumming battening down the hatches. \"Minus\" is a sad, quiet affair, more pop than anything else, while album closer \"Black Water Vision\" turns its amps up to 11 for a bombastic finale.  Despite the odd bout of clumsy prog and an hourlong running time, CVI resists its inclination to drag on and peter out; every time a song seems in danger of sagging or sinking into selfindulgence, Royal Thunder throw a curveball or trot out an inspired device to keep the train rolling. This is a solid debut album. Much of the hype is deserved, and despite what the press sheets might say about Southern doom'n'gloom, CVI is more bluesy, impassioned rock than anything else. It doesn't really matter how folks try to package it, though, because the album speaks for itself: What Royal Thunder are doing is only rock'n'roll, but, goddamn, do they love it. "}