{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17946/homepage_large.33aaf6ad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rachael Maddux","artist":"Smoke Fairies","title":"Blood Speaks","text":" Katherine Blamire and Jessica Davies became friends as schoolgirls in Sussex, where they began writing songs together before decamping first to New Orleans (for the music) then to Vancouver (for the view). All the while they were becoming Smoke Fairies, or what Smoke Fairies would become, taking snippets of American blues and bits of folk music that had made that same Transatlantic journey and folding them in with their own more overtly modern sense of cleareyed gloom. Perhaps it was in those years that they fused into the twoheaded swampsiren they sound like today. On their first two releases (2010's Ghosts, an EP/singles collection, and their proper debut, Through Low Light and Trees) and especially their new one, Blood Speaks, Blamire and Davies, now based in London, don't trade vocal duties so much as appear to sing from the same body, their voices nearly indistinguishable, shifting between smoky moans and toecurling trills. They perform and record with a band (percussion, piano, bass) and these days, after a few years on the road, they know how to incorporate all the other players at their disposal, but in general they seem to be fully ensconced within their own private plane of existence. It's easy to imagine them sharing a madeup language, secret handshakes, and rituals kept secret and only slyly giggled about in the presence of others. Though Blamire and Davies' songs are about far less seamless unions unpretty, frayed at the edges, painfully human. There's a gritty, lucid vein running just below the top layer of haze, the words' bite stinging all the more for their burial under all those dank guitar tones and harmonies as dark and delicate as black lace. Ruminations on the bleaker side of romance dominate here not just breakups and missed connections, but the burdens of even the most functional affairs. \"Something dies when you fall in love/ And something lives when you've had enough of driving over the ice,\" sings Blamire (or maybe it's Davies?) on \"Take Me Down When You Go\". A number of these songs, like opener \"Let Me Know\", are gripped by warring senses of cool selfpossession (\"my destruction is mine to own\") and brainaddling lust (\"I see you coming like a weight of bricks/ 'Cause I wanna kiss you after we call it quits\"). \"On a day like this, I fight through the city I live in/ Hope that there's something left to give to you,\" goes \"Hideaway\", the line riding out a billowing cloud of shivering guitar and grinding bass. This isn't the first time Smoke Fairies have mined the painful parallels between people and places: \"I can't go back to Gastown/ …And I can't go back to you,\" Blamire lamented on \"Gastown\", the 2009 single the duo cut for Jack White's Third Man Records, which remains one of their most distinctive tracks: woozy, reeling verses slipping in and out of a strutting, bluesy chorus, lead along by Blamire and Davies' interlocking guitars, voices, everything. On the cover of that 7\", shot against Third Man's nownearlyiconic royal blue, Smoke Fairies look almost like a novelty act: two pretty girls in cropped vintage dresses and leather booties, cradling bigbodied vintage electrics, coy and prim. But any appearance of naivety is a ruse. They know what they want and very slowly, very surely, they are going to take it from you. It's hard not to wonder what sort of fantastic greasiness White may have been able to coax out of the band if he'd stuck around for a full album, but they've found a more than sympathetic ear in British producer Head, who's perhaps best known for his longstanding studio appointment with PJ Harvey. It's well established that he can handle chameleonic shifts but will Smoke Fairies also choose that as their route? Just a few degrees separate each of their releases so far, gradual shifts in depth and tone: a certain desperate urgency falling away in favor of an ominous languor; Blamire and Davies' dueling guitars, once nimble and clean, now shrouded in a mist, muggy and ancient, like some unholy union of Fairport Convention and Colour Haze. If they continue at this rate, their best records may render Blood Speaks a quaint stranger, recognizable only for the force at its core. "}