{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17939/homepage_large.8ede131c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"Oddisee","title":"Odd Renditions Vol. 001 EP","text":" If rap is really having its big independent moment, then it stands to reason that lesserknown MCs outside of big cities and fashionable cliques will start to get some shine. One of the guys who deserves such attention is Oddisee, a producer and rapper from Washington, D.C., known for an eclectic take on soulful boombap. Oddisee, real name Amir Mohammed el Khalifa, has been creating compelling work outside the label system for some time now. His best release so far was last year's Rock Creek Park, a mostly instrumental ode to the District public space that crackled with warmth and nostalgia and has stayed lodged in my rotation ever since it came out. Next up for Oddisee is the fulllength People Hear What They See, but prior to that he's given away this EP featuring reworked cuts by Bon Iver, Metronomy, Marvin Gaye, and the reggae rapper kos. They're remixes in the loose sense, but Oddisee treats them like duets, keeping the original vocals basically intact but redoing the arrangement and adding a verse or two. I like this approach because it feels more like he's building off the source material rather than chopping it up and repurposing it. In the case of \"Paralyzed\", which uses Bon Iver's \"Re: Stacks\" as its blueprint, Oddisee swaps out the guitar for a shuffling pianojazz beat. His rhymes play off the song's lovelorn theme, and its spirit is similar, but the character is totally different. It seems like Oddisee's a producer first but throughout the EP his lyrics are solid, alternately conscious and selfconscious without getting too didactic. He's conversational and loose and hints at bigger themes in a casual, offhand way. \"Paralyzed\"'s \"Been a lot of places, rumors of racists/ But I can't lie, they was nice to me\" is one of those good tipoftheiceberg lines. The EP's best cut, though, is the one where he lets the original singer do most of the talking. \"Ain't That Peculiar\", an update of the 1965 Marvin Gaye track of the same name, expertly blends old and new. Stripping away everything but Gaye's somber croon, Oddisee substitutes a heavy beat clap and synths there's a great tension between the sounds, an \"Otis\"type feeling but cleaner and more reverential. Not everything here is that good. The kos rework \"Man I Use to Be\" is the limpest of the batch, and at just four songs one dud can do significant damage. Odd Renditions does accomplish a few key things, though. Certainly it's a cool teaser for Oddisee's upcoming LP,  but it also emphasizes his wide sonic range and healthy approach to genre. Also, between instrumental fare like Rock Creek Park, more straightforward hiphop stuff, and these diverse remixes, he's starting to build a wellrounded and idiosyncratic discography. Further proof that this a guy who should definitely be on your radar. "}