{"label":" Hippos in Tanks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17956/homepage_large.9caa723d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Carrie Battan","artist":"Physical Therapy","title":"Safety Net EP","text":" If you spend an aboveaverage amount of time surfing SoundCloud pages, Daniel Fisher's music is probably familiar to you. The New Jerseybased DJ/producer who goes by Physical Therapy is most often found inside sets of remix parentheses he's made his own versions of songs by artists from Alicia Keys and Lloyd to any number of his likeminded contemporaries. If the internet has replaced physical space as the birthplace of underground music scenes, this corner of the web is as thriving as any local town filled with young garage bands playing weekly basement shows. Fisher, along with a crew of acts like Minneapolis duo Elite Gymnastics and seasoned R&B nostaglic Tom Krell of How to Dress Well, work alongside one another in a sea of mixes, remixes, and reworks tied together by clever, internetliterate signifiers, retrofuturistic winks, and a music nerd's collection of obscure samples. They make slick websites that intentionally look like infomercials; they accidentally spawn savvy microgenres. At times it can feel like just a topical grab bag of cool sounds and images. At other times it feels like an exciting portal into the future.  Safety Net is Physical Therapy's first music released in a standard format. The EP is a solid attempt at corralling the sometimesmeandering themes early90s rave, rare samples, luscious R&B vocals, ambient percussive sounds into a tangible whole. \"Record Sales\" folds smooth jazz and echoey cooing and ahhhing into a cottoncandy dance party; \"Mind You\" wraps loops around walkietalkie vocals from 1970s novelty song \"Convoy\". While there's no essential core to idea, the five tracks are slickly fun, pointing to Fisher's good taste and strength's as a DJ (he knows how to make people dance to weird shit in a live setting). The fiveminute \"Drone On\", for instance, underscores his ability to craft melody out of the miscellany. Simple synth lines, plasticsounding keyboards, frantic drum'n'bass beats, and visual artist Jamie Krasner's featherlight guest vocals crystallize into something that sounds effortless and joyful. But not everything hits this hard: the EP's weakest track, \"Mind You\", plugs away without much to show for itself, aimless in its ambience. For those of us who are drawn to the ideals of the culture and sounds of rave but too young to have experienced it in its original form, a song like Safety Net's \"Do It Alone\" allows a sort of vicarious enjoyment retooled for a more fragmented digitalage sensibility. \"Do It Alone\" uses buzz and drone and an untraceable house vocal (\"Oh girl, there's something about the way/ You give me freedom\") softly punctuated by tinny breakbeat but its title brings to mind lone people in rooms connected through their computers. So if there's a thread to be pulled from a lowmaintenance release like Safety Net, and from much of the music being made by Physical Therapy's contemporaries, it's the way the idea of \"rave\" and its revival has splintered in the last year or so. Whereas artists like Skrillex and Bassnectar have seized the physicality of the early90s movement, making dubstep and electronic dance music that incites thousands of kids to thrash around in arenas or at festivals, underground producers are filtering old rave sounds and imagery through a contemporary, visual arttuned lens and using them for more private listening experiences. "}