{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17958/homepage_large.9f664af2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"R. Kelly","title":"Write Me Back","text":" Uneven albums are alltoofamiliar territory for R. Kelly fans. Even his bestloved (and plain best) albums, like 2003's worldconquering and reprehabilitating Chocolate Factory, feel like collections of blindingly slick singles padded with soggy ballads, awkward collaborations, and halfbaked conceptual art pieces masquerading as R&B songs. So it's easy, in retrospect, to see the uniform goodness of 2011's Love Letter as an unexpected stroke of luck. Though marred by some chintzy synthesized orchestral sections from a guy you knew could afford actual horns and strings, it was the first of Kelly's albums since the early 1990s where he didn't trip himself up by overreaching. He simply wrote some wonderful mashnotes to the soul and R&B artists who metaphorically reared him as a young aspirant, and sang those songs at the top of his notinconsiderable abilities. The problem with Write Me Back is that it doesn't go far enough. By that, I don't mean he should have returned to the maniacal storysongs he drove into the ground after \"Trapped in the Closet\", cranked up the sex metaphors to an even more deranged degree, or gone cherrypicking the hottest new sounds. A more restrained, classicist, and focused R. Kelly was a good look, especially since enough of his irrepressible weirdness is always going to shine through and keep things from feeling too buttonedup. But the care, craft and subtlety of Love Letter is audible only in flashes on Write Me Back. Kelly seems to have breezed through the writing and recording process here, and there's a fine line between breezy and halfassed. (At least the crummy parts of Kelly's older albums had a misguided messianic ambition behind them.) The cheap fauxorchestrations are back, too, and they sound especially shabby backing the total conviction of Kelly's engaged vocal performances. \"Love Is\" comes off like a handful of hacks in an offstrip Vegas bar, armed with a couple of Casios and a surprisingly good frontman, doing their best Barry White impression for a bunch of disinterested daytime drunks. By the end of the song, Kelly is willing himself back to the high \"Soul Train\" era, trying to turn its ersatz disco into the real deal. The fact that he almost succeeds gives you some indication, right at the album's start, that the pleasures of Write Me Back are based almost entirely around Kelly's pipes. \"Green Light\" is the type of deep cut covered in Eric Harvey's recent history of quiet storm radio, and Kelly's vocal is as creamy as any of those classics. It's one of those songs that needs just enough quiver behind the lalala's to induce shivers without breaking the lowkey mood by oversinging. When he wants to rock the people in the balcony, he's still got it. The lyrics to \"When a Man Lies\" may be boilerplate the wise old soulman castigating the faithless and twofaced but wow, does he sell that chorus. Still, it'd be nice if the music had half as much force. Surprisingly, given his depth of knowledge and the moreorless good taste displayed on Love Letter's oldschool pastiches, the true low points on Write Me Back come when Kelly tries to recreate the 60s, again mostly because the results are so damned chintzy. \"All Rounds on Me\" is like a 1997 ringtone version of a Wilson Pickett obscurity with tinny synthetic horns clanging against surprisingly accurate guitar licks. The lowestofthelow is \"Party Jumpin'\", which comes directly after the somnambulant smoothness of \"Green Light\" like someone slapping you awake. And then pouring warm beer on you. Not even Kelly's singing can redeem this epically crappysounding tribute to dance crazes, \"American Bandstand\", and the end of every beachparty movie ever. These cutrate production choices are, along with the limpness of some of his retro moves, the only ways that Kelly actually embarrasses himself on Write Me Back. Which may be better than the days when he had you questioning his basic mental fitness. Still, given the glimmer of an endtoend great album we got on Love Letter, it's hard not to be disappointed that unevenness is once again the name of R. Kelly's game. "}