{"label":" Friends of Friends","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17950/homepage_large.c9466331.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Tomas Barfod","title":"Salton Sea","text":" Tomas Barfod is a drummer, which means that even if he never lifted a finger to hammer out a dance tune, he'd be considered a beatmaker in the most basic sense. As it turns out, he does quite a bit of both: In addition to handling kit duties for the angular electropop outfit WhoMadeWho, Barfod's been knobtwiddling for the past decade and change, both on his own and with fellow Danish countryman Kasper Bjørke as Filur. His new solo album, Salton Sea, finds him tightropewalking the increasingly smaller gap between man and machine. Drum programming shares space with the organic, individual physicality that comes with being a percussionist; one moment there's a thick, fuzzy backbeat rubbing against your ears, and the next you might be grooving to what sounds like crisp cymbals and snares, controlled by a fleshandblood metronomic instinct. The album sounds handmade in every sense of the word, possessing a sense of intimacy even at its grandest moments. A word about WhoMadeWho: The trio released four albums (the most recent being this year's solid, overlooked Kompakt collection Brighter), each possessing a loose, inthestudio charm where mechanized ballads share equal billing with, say, a snarling postpunk cover of Benny Benassi's machoelectro anthem \"Satisfaction\". There's nothing quite as cheeky on Salton Sea, but a sense of homespun playfulness is definitely present, as Barfod hops from Morr Musicesque musicbox glitch pop (\"Broken Glass\") to sweeping spacey electro (\"Python\") to tense, hairraising house (\"Till We Die\") with a wideeyed confidence. That confidence is bolstered by Barfod's indulgent generosity, since Salton Sea runs long, with only three cuts finishing below the fiveminute point and a total running time that cracks an hour in length. Look past the occasional bloat, though, and you'll find that another important lesson Barfod's taken away from playing in a relatively popfocused band is a sense of pacing. The record's ABAB sequencing (vocal cut, instrumental, vocal cut, instrumental) lends it a nice perpetual swelling motion. The album's popleaning sparklers are its clearest highlights, perfectly constructed as proper songs. \"November Skies\" is a heady rush of a tune that, thanks to a perpetually aerial vocal from Swedish singer Nina Kinert, crests on a steady, gauzy lightness while maintaining enough weight that it doesn't float away. WhoMadeWho guitarist Jeppe Kjellberg provides the wizened voice that gets twisted and spat out on \"Broken Glass\", but it's his vocal take on \"Don't Understand\" that makes for the album's most surprising moment, when his fragile falsetto hits six disco spins on the way down from the song's disorienting climactic burst. The record's most oblong instrumental cuts make similar use of building and breaking tension \"Aether\" especially, as its clanging swarm of synth noise dissolves into a diorama foregrounded by welcome emptiness but they just don't stick to the brain as well as the vocal showcases, both due to a comparative lack of melodic hookiness and, in the case of opener \"D.S.O.Y.\", Barfod's occasional tendency to create tracks that are simply content to spin in place. In form and execution, Salton Sea reminds me of Röyksopp's excellent 2009 album Junior, in that both combine grand, popcentered gestures with a sense of futuristic fussiness. Of course, they're not totally alike; for one, even at his most accessible moments, Barfod's not close to touching the highest highs of that impeccable Norwegian pair. Junior was also a specifically clubby album, even if the club most suited for its pleasures is probably located somewhere on Saturn. Despite a strong emphasis of the form, save for the track \"Came to Party\", I'm not sure it'd be totally appropriate to refer to Salton Sea as a \"dance\" album. It certainly grooves in its own special way, but it's hard to imagine a lot of this stuff as goingout music, let alone the type of tunes you'd work up a sweat to. As a solo artist, Tomas Barfod's a few steps away from achieving sweet and total bliss, but Salton Sea is plenty evidence that every step taken in the future will be worth documenting. "}