{"label":" Dovecote","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/17981/homepage_large.418d19b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Supreme Cuts","title":"Whispers in the Dark","text":" Give Mike Perry and Austin Kjeultes of Supreme Cuts a brief onceover, and you'd be quick to assume that these two Chicagobased musicians are products of their environment. Talking to Pitchfork contributor Andrew Ryce for Resident Advisor this past May, the duo revealed how they drummed up the idea for Supreme Cuts after failing to find their footing as rap producers, instead synthesizing their common interests in Windy Citycentric genres like footwork and juke, house and postrock to craft their Trouble EP, and now Whispers in the Dark, their debut fulllength. Listeners who've paid attention to trends in electronic music of the past 12 months or so won't be at all surprised by what they hear on Whispers in the Dark: new age textures, plenty of clipped and distressed vocals, lush R&B notes, rhythms that nod to Southern hiphop. So while Supreme Cuts' hometown seems to be a big part of the duo's influence, Whispers in the Dark's real home is the expanding digital realm. While there isn't much to set them apart from their peers, Perry and Kjeultes do have a strong sense of craft. Building on warm rushes of synth, there are slight detours into Dreamlike slowrock R&B (\"18th\"), factoryissued twostep (single \"Sherm\"), postwitch house moves (\"e2\") and watery, stretches of electrozen a la Balam Acab (\"Ciroc Waterfalls\", an argument for a moratorium on dripping sound effects). Most of the tracks on Whispers in the Dark could almost be repurposed as cloudrap productions. Had the two waited things out a bit longer, who's to say that zonked MCs wouldn't be flocking to Supreme Cuts the way Squadda B or A$AP or the Based God himself have flocked to the likes of Clams Casino and Spaceghostpurrp? So it makes sense that the duo now has a rap mixtape coming down the pipeline. To get to that point, though, they'll need to keep their focus. One of Whispers in the Dark's biggest problems is how these little assemblages are structured. Perry and Kjeultes seem too anxious to switch things up and move onto the next idea before letting the previous one properly germinate. When things threaten to get funky or propulsive, they crawl back into the comfort of the inertiadeprived cosmos. Without building suspense or tension, these breaks feel pallid and underwhelming and begin to smear together. The record's second half is stronger than the first, more movementminded and at times irreverent. Highlight \"Belly\" uses overdone vocal samples to the best of its ability, with a bassier clip playing nicely off a feminine android voice, creating some needed hookiness Though often disjointed, when some of these fragments manage to really connect, it's hard not to imagine Supreme Cuts as being able to hit a decent stride in the future. "}