{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/17990/homepage_large.2ca7a290.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Father Yod and the Source Family","title":"The Thought Adjusters","text":" The Source Family is fond of evocative names, both in their projects (YaHoWha 13, Spirit of '76, Children of the Sixth Root Race) and their releases (God and Hair, Magnificence in the Memory, Penetration: An Aquarian Symphony). The title of their newest archival release, The Thought Adjusters, isn't quite as poetic, but it might be their most apt. Though the Family and their leader, Father Yod, espoused a spiritual, philosophical, and ethical lifestyle leading some to brand them a cult they don't appear to have had any interest in brainwashing. They're more drawn toward adjustments in thinking, through a questioning of assumptions that values loose improvisation over rigid rules. At least that's true of the music the various Source Family groups made, and The Thought Adjusters, culled from the vaults of family member Isis Aquarian, delivers tons of that onthespot inspiration. Take \"The Goddess Earth (All My Sons Are Jesus)\", which Yod opens with a meandering rant about the Earth as a human being entering puberty, God as a father with many sons, and predictions of natural disasters \"in 1987…the latter part of '86…or the beginning of '88.\" It all comes in a stream of consciousness that's less like preaching than searching. Think Daniel Higgs in Say God mode, or Sun City Girls' Alan Bishop when he morphs into rambling streetpoet Uncle Jim. Perhaps thought adjustment is what Yod and the Family wanted to do themselves rather than to you. In fact, if you haven't encountered any Source music before, The Thought Adjusters will more likely rework your ideas of long psych freakouts than your notions of spirituality. On the surface, the Source groups were hippie jam bands, but they rarely indulged in long solos, ornate arrangements, or flowery emotions. They were more a garage band with no off switch, prone to stretching their simple riffs out into the stratosphere (there are only seven tracks on these four LP sides). Whenever they could veer into a complicated turn, they instead stick to their guns, building variety from momentum rather than flash. In the process, they predict the elastic inspiration of Can's workouts on the Lost Tapes box, as well as the acidsoaked trips of Butthole Surfers. Still, the center of the The Thought Adjusters is Father Yod, and his oddly malleable singing is the star of each song. His voice stretches and cracks and distorts, hitting on a gut level rather than a pitchperfect one. His lopsided cries inject energy into the longer songs, but I'm partial to one of the shortest and sparsest tracks, \"Seed of Yahowha\". Here, Yod has an almost raplike sense of timing, mimicking and counterpointing some wiry, Beefheartesque guitar. He might never actually hit a note it's all charm and charisma, and when you hear it, you can understand why it led many a Source family member down Yod's winding path. "}