{"label":" Ash International","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/17998/homepage_large.53c00d5b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Fennesz","title":"AUN","text":" Austrian director Edgar Honetschläger imagines \"a future world where life will be nothing but sensual\" in his 2011 feature AUN: The Beginning and the End of All Things. It makes sense that he turned to his fellow countryman Christian Fennesz to fill out the soundtrack. Fennesz has, after all, spent a large part of his career retreating from reality through a variety of musical forms. The idea of operating in a purely sensual realm is the logical endgame he's always striving toward, whether it's in the crisp, glitchheavy haze of his acclaimed Endless Summer or via more meditative work such as his 2007 collaboration with Ryuichi Sakamoto on Cendre. The soundtrack to AUN is a natural extension of the latter, mainly because they're both positioned in a surfeit of space that gently collapses into subtle abstraction. To firm up the link, Fennesz includes three tracks from Cendre here, turning this into a companion piece that lightly circles around a similar domain to the one he fashioned with Sakamoto. Honetschläger's film tackles a number of big themes humankind's relationship to nature, the inexorable (and, at times, unwelcome) march of progress, and the sense of dread at our inevitable demise. Fennesz's music is appropriately pitched somewhere between a number of emotions commonly stirred up by such subject matter. AUN principally drifts between fear, sadness, and loathing, often gathering its greatest force when it bridges all three of those feelings. At other times emotions are compartmentalized, with Fennesz locking them up in little boxes tailored for specific scenes in the film. On \"Sekai\", for example, Fennesz simply does sadness, coating his guitar in a great glut of echo and pinning it down to a slow moving swell of artificial noise. \"Himitsu\" is all dread and apprehension, with a series of steadily repeating drones acquiescing to a sinister hiss. Much of this material is short and fragmented, creating moments that flicker into life then vanish before achieving full impact. The foreboding \"Kae\" barely makes it over the twominute mark, invoking thoughts that stir when passing a stranger whose world just seems to have collapsed around them. It's that fleeting type of empathy, caught somewhere between feeling trapped in the role of passive observer and desperately wanting to reach out and touch, that AUN takes as its central focus. \"Euclides\" is a glimpse of a lonely transmission pinging into the atmosphere; \"Nympha\" is a twoandahalfminute wallow in cheerless reflection, crafted from untreated acoustic guitar and suppressed digital interference that barely rises up into the picture. The album is positioned that way to service the film, but it ends up carrying an irregular weight of its own, demonstrating how transitory sentiment can pack as much of a punch as fullyrealized feelings. Pitchfork's review of Cendre noted how the spare piano melodies can sometimes verge on melodrama. Two of the three songs pulled from that album for this collection (\"Haru\" and \"Trace\") go down that route, but it's to Fennesz's credit that he focuses on creating a more unsettling form of ambience to flush out the rest of AUN. He also demonstrates how in control he is of his creations, never tumbling into something that could be described as obtrusive, always packing in tiny details that are revealed over multiple plays. The fact that this material was created to bolster (but not detract from) visual imagery only makes that feat even more impressive. These tracks don't repeat the trick of Endless Summer by creating whole worlds to get lost in. Instead, they work as miniature emblems of abstract emotional thought, the kind of things that float into our minds every day but don't necessarily make much sense just yet. "}