{"label":" Moshi Moshi","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18005/homepage_large.2f962711.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Very Best","title":"MTMTMK","text":"  A lot of comparisons to Paul Simon's Graceland are cropping up in reviews of the Very Best's MTMTMK, even though the two albums have completely different contexts, styles, and lyrical aims. An American adultcontemporary pop star conscripting South African musicians in the last days of apartheid is not comparable to a breakout Malawian singer and a Swedish producer fusing Westernized Afropop with European dance music in 2012. Nor are the Very Best's direct appeals for sex (\"Rumbae\") and political change (\"Yoshua Alikuti\") particularly evocative of Simon's coded flights of imagery. The only thing the records really share is some African drumming. Still, the urge to mentally connect them is understandable. Graceland provoked an anguished and multifaceted debate among white Westerners that was essentially about the ethics of globalization in music. The Very Best seemed custommade to render it moot. The handwringing attained a fever pitch the mid2000s, when Animal Collective started spiking their electronic goo with African rhythms and Vampire Weekend's preppy Afropop proved to be an emotional reflex hammer. But then came Esau Mwamwaya, flipping Vampire Weekend's \"Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa\" and giving everyone tacit permission to just chill out a bit. His later, glorious collaboration with Ezra Koenig, \"Warm Heart of Africa\", made the concept of musical authenticity as a caste system seem hopelessly obsolete. In the 1980s, musical globalism was something Paul Simon had to construct, traveling abroad and breaking a cultural boycott. Now it happens more serendipitously: A French producer who works with a Swedish partner walks into a secondhand furniture shop in East London and meets a Malawian singer. On the Very Best's outstanding first mixtape and album, that sense of happy effortlessness was the secret sauce in a recipe that included handsome vocal melodies, lush yet vigorous electronic production, and the sunbeam vocal timbre of Mwamwaya. Unfortunately, the effortlessness ebbed after Etienne Tron quit, leaving Mwamwaya to work as a duo with Johan Hugo (né Karlberg) on the solid but indistinct Super Mom mixtape. MTMTMK is more satisfying, but it's still a bit overworked in ways that undercut its strengths. Hugo grabs up everything from Europop and kwela to bhangra and moombahton and melts them into shiny hunks that bounce and slip around. Mwamwaya belts out catchy refrains in a mix of English and Chichewa. A variety of African guest singers and rappers work efficiently, except on \"Bantu\", where the amount of stardom in one place Amadou & Mariam, Baaba Maal inadequately compensates for a shapeless track. The music still exudes pleasure, but it's sometimes checked by ponderous production choices. Highlights such as \"Yoshua Alikuti\", \"Kondaine\", and \"I Wanna Go Away\" are infectiously giddy, but the droning \"Adani\" loses focus in a wandering arrangement. The fussier production can sometimes be a boon, as on \"Rumbae\", where the vinyl drag on the singing adds a powerful swerve to the rhythm, but the squealing cuts in the home stretch are grating. On unforgettable bangers such as \"Julia\" from Warm Heart of Africa, the Very Best emphasized the radiant ease of Mwamwaya's voice with lucid, throbbing production. There could be numerous explanations for the slight shift toward cramped opacity here. Perhaps a trio is better at editing than a duo. Perhaps they simply wanted to make a heavier album, and succeeded in a mildly wearying way. Or perhaps the Very Best are pointedly playing against the stereotypes of African openness and simplicity that they were originally celebrated for. Any points of friction with our expectations are probably signs that the old musical caste system isn't quite worn out yet. "}