{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18001/homepage_large.d8651ebd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"JEFF the Brotherhood","title":"Hypnotic Nights","text":" It's summertime, which means that, right now, all across the land, lifetime friendships are being forged and virginities are being lost, and the fond reminiscences thereof will be forever associated with whatever songs happen to be playing in the background. Because the soundtrack to our lives is often accidental and serendipitous, comprising random tunes that turn up on the radio, or on shuffle, or in a DJ's playlist at just the right moment, thereby conflating a certain song and a certain shared experience into the best night of your life. But JEFF the Brotherhood ask: Why leave it all to chance? Why not just reach for a record that's already as up for a good time as you are? The fraternal Nashville duo's seventh album and debut for Warner Bros. is their version of celebration rock, if not quite Celebration Rock. Where fellow twopiece Japandroids' recent second album is a paean to the good times as seen in the rearview mirror, Hypnotic Nights captures the memories as they're being made specifically at 3 a.m. in the overcrowded kitchen of a home belonging to some classmate's oblivious, vacationing parents. And from the sound of things, Jake and Jamin Orrall's idea of the perfect house party involves little more than The Blue Album on full blast and a thick cloud of pot smoke. Hypnotic Nights continues with the Weezer worship introduced on 2011's We Are the Champions, but answers the fuzzpop frivolity with equal doses of motorik groove and psychedelic drone: In the giddy, phasedout thrust of \"Hypnotic Winter\" and bubblegumcovered Krautrock of \"Wood Ox\", you can imagine what kind of record Rivers Cuomo might've made postPinkterton had he gone to Cologne instead of college. JEFF the Brotherhood's concerns are so basic in their everydude needs \"I want a place where I can smoke meats/ Where I can drink and swim in a creek,\" Jake offers by way of mission statement on \"Country Life\" we might as well call them JBrah. But coming from a band that has just two members and three guitar strings to its name, Hypnotic Nights covers a deceptively wide swath of sonic terrain: Dan Auerbach's production incorporates everything from saxophones and piano to synths and sitars into the mix, mostly to thicken the band's distortorock drive rather than provide a respite from it. However, Auerbach does coax an impressively straightfaced performance out of the duo on the mid60sstyled psychpop reverie \"Region of Fire\", an effective latealbum comedown that makes the closing cover of Black Sabbath's cigarettelighter igniter \"Changes\" all the more superfluous. Even if it's meant to suggest that every epic bender must ultimately come to a sobering end, the gospel singerassisted reading is too melodramatic to be introspective, and by swapping out the original's piano melody for amateurhour synth taps too halfassed to be taken seriously. Given how well Hypnotic Nights otherwise lives up to its name, the Orralls' ersatzOzzy act proves to be an unnecessarily rude awakening.  "}