{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18018/homepage_large.aa08b657.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Micachu and the Shapes","title":"Never","text":" At this point, \"experimental pop music\" is hardly novel. The ongoing marriage of accessible songwriting and capitalA Artistry may very well be both a cause and a symptom of that which was once called indie rock's growing popularity. On a purely aesthetic level, Micachu and the Shapes could stand among this generation's most lauded arty pop purveyors. But with this, their second album proper (following last year's oneoff collaboration with the London Sinfonietta, Chopped and Screwed), the band has doubled down on something genuinely different, defiantly cold, and intentionally withholding. These qualities were certainly present on the band's 2009 debut, Jewellery, but they were tempered by much more discernibly \"pop\" moments. The album was chock full of strange noises and unconventional structures, but these were masterfully interwoven with catchy melodies and conventionally exhilarating rhythms. This time around, it's all but impossible to hear the band's cacophonous sonic treatments and counterintuitive structures as things that are being done to a batch of songs they are the songs. One can hardly picture the three humans in the band actually playing this music, and it's hard to tell a treated guitar from a vacuum cleaner or a drum kit from some clangorous but impossibletovisualize percussive texture.  In keeping with the album's title, Never is uncompromising and direct. While both of Micachu's albums feel like the work of impossibly cool, perpetually unimpressed British art students, this attitude is the brilliant, bloodless core of Never. The whiffs of boredom and casual disdain that passed through Jewellery no longer read as a crack at style. In some ways, it's easier to approach Never as a single piece of music than as a collection of unrelated songs. There are no clear points of entry here, nothing that stands out quite as strongly as Jewellery's \"Calculator\" or \"Wrong\". Mica Levi's melodies are minimal and straightforward, but Never finds them constantly obfuscated and/or disrupted. Wouldbe memorable vocal lines are mumbled, manipulated, and cut off. Entire songs seem imperceptibly to slow down or lurch forward. This is decidedly uneasy listening, in an unerringly precise and purposeful way. None of which is to say that Never is without nuance or subtlety. The theatrical callandresponse of \"Ok\" may be sincerely expressing the importance of directly communicating one's emotions, or dryly, brutally lampooning it. The most conventionally pretty segment of Never is a spare, 47second set piece with flutes and bird sounds that concludes, \"I want to jump into the white sky/ But I never try.\" It is extremely rare to hear music that is so clever, but so thoroughly disinterested in drawing attention to its own cleverness. In the grand tradition of art that willfully denies conventional pleasures, Never has a bit of trouble fully realizing its unconventional ones. It is nearly impossible to get anything from Never stuck in your head; the album's ideas and execution are so closely intertwined that it practically ceases to exist when you aren't actually listening to it. It is a singular object forged from absence, dissonance, flat surfaces, and sharp edges a brave and tricky step down a path that terminates somewhere more elemental and holistic than \"experimental pop music\" or \"catchy experimental music.\" "}