{"label":" Sargent House","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18021/homepage_large.19a972e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Fang Island","title":"Major","text":" After releasing their irrepressible second record of highfivin', guitartappin' spazzrock, Fang Island started to incorporate a cover of Mariah Carey's \"Always Be My Baby\" into their live sets. Two things stood out: While they were hardly the only indie rock band at the time showing love to 90s R&B hits, they didn't approach it with anything resembling irony or credconsciousness, and thus were one of the few who didn't completely embarrass themselves. Secondly, while keeping its core intact, they still managed to make it sound like a Fang Island song. This was a genuine revelation Fang Island was stuffed with so many tripleguitar harmonies, shouted group vocals and octopusarmed drum fills that the dearth of traditional songcraft came off like a necessary casualty rather than a deficiency. Fang Island initially felt like a single idea perfected, \"celebration rock\" before Celebration Rock (right down to the fireworks that began and ended the record). But now that they're edging their way into realdeal songwriting on Major, we get to see whether they were in any way holding back on us. Major isn't as much of a change as you might expect their compositional method takes more cues from something like Fang Island's \"Life Coach\" than \"Always Be My Baby\", which is admittedly something of a letdown if Major was intended as a progression rather than a lateral movement. There are no big personal disclosures, narrative ambitions, or political causes on Major, nor are they revealing themselves as masterful architects of baroque song structure. Rather, Fang Island write vocal melodies and lyrics the same way they write riffs, simple yet very enthusiastic smiletriggers that are designed to be doubled and tripled for effect. A line like \"I hope I never understand\" fits into Fang Island's worldview not just as a philosophy but because it simply sounds like the words that should be accompanying ascending and descending notes of a major key scale.  Though they aren't firebrands like fellow Rhode Island School of Design alum David Byrne, it's helpful to remember that Fang Island are artschool kids in a band that is to an extent an art project. They're just one with an unusual attitude, which is that happiness is every bit as complex and multifarious as the darkness and depression most of their peers choose to explore. And Major comes off as so chipper that it's tough to trust sometimes. There's no reason to doubt their sincerity the first repeated line from Major is \"all I know, I learned in kindergarten\" and if that doesn't clear the room, you'll stick around for similar sentiments like \"I'll probably never under I hope I never understand,\" \"you're making me work for it,\" and \"I want to seek out the angles.\" These songs wake up with the sun, eat a wellbalanced breakfast, go running before they check their Twitter feed and make a plan to talk to that standoffish guy at the gym and make a friend today. It's a standard of admirable positivity that you can still resent the everloving shit out of because it feels impossible to live up to. And ultimately, Major's reliance on words rather than riffs doesn't quite feel as effective or unique in conveying its highness on life. It doesn't sound notably more polished or expensive than its predecessor, just more restrained. Whereas songs like \"Daisy\" and \"Careful Crossers\" sounded like they could veer out of control from a compositional standpoint, Major comes equipped with brakes and airbags. Instrumentals like \"Chompers\" have no shortage of hotshot riffs, yet they end up in about the same place they started and if they're going to mine a fairly narrow emotional vein, they either need to overwhelm or make more of stylistic range. \"Dooney Rock\" is agreeable countryrock corndoggin' and the most notable detour, but when they do stretch their legs on \"Make Me\" or \"Never Understand\", they simply outstay their welcome through repetition, pushing five minutes and tamped down by flat and dry production you could typically find on records reining in your favorite indie acts in the mid90s. Fortunately, like Too High to Die or Without a Sound or File Under: Easy Listening, Major would've been a Buzz Bin record with some hits the downstroked, palmmuted riffs of \"Asunder\" puts itself in the lineage of Jimmy Eat World's \"The Middle\", to this day, the finest altrock pep talk put to tape. Elsewhere, \"Sisterly\" trades heroic leads with the finest use of nonfunk wahwah pedal in ages, while \"Seek It Out\" merges Fang Island's upwithpeople mentality with postpunk's brutal stop/start dynamics. The frontloaded sequencing of Major frames it as running out of ideas, but it's better to think of it as a transitional record more than one which brings up the question as to whether their technical shredding can ever coexist with pure poprock in the first place. But maybe what Major lacks compared to its predecessor is the element of surprise, and it's not just in a musical sense. Even though they'd been gigging around for several years and Fang Island was consistently misidentified as their debut instead of their sophomore LP, it basically still felt it like came out of nowhere and only a bolt from the blue could inspire such instantaneous cartwheeling, bouncing off walls, highfiving everyone in the room. It's the reason they got compared to Andrew W.K. rather than similarly situated artshredders like the Mae Shi or Ponytail. Major does actually confirm that comparison since it's very similar to I Get Wet's followup The Wolf, ultimately more refined, more proper, and modestly asking for staying power rather than demanding that you party til you puke. "}