{"label":" Warp/Luckyme","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18023/homepage_large.8a600c60.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"TNGHT","title":"TNGHT EP","text":" Lunice and Hudson Mowhawke of TNGHT emerged this year with a glassshattering SXSW set and a few brash, colorful bangers on Rustie's scenedefining BBC Essential Mix. While their contemporaries experiment with footwork loops, yacht rock, and 1970s prog, TNGHT zero in on rap's fixation on the loud and chaotic. Hiphop production has always had time for bass and bombast but a growing number of producers notably Lex Luger, the often copied but rarely equalled soundbomber behind Waka's influential Flockaveli have an almost nihilistic embrace of sonic overkill.  TNGHT may not come from the American rap scene (Lunice is in Montreal, while HudMo's Ross Birchard is based in Glasgow), but their connection to it is clear. Lunice and Birchard have great ears for what's what and who's making it: their engaging and wellcurated hourlong mix for Diplo's BBC show ranged from the mushmouthed grit of Florida's Spaceghostpurrp to Chicago's recent wave of teenage antagonism (Chief Keef, Sasha Go Hard) without showing any signs of dilettantism. Their selftitled debut EP for Warp and LuckyMe spans 16 minutes of some of the year's most brazen, positively huge hiphop sounds. Birchard recently copped to Pitchfork that inspiration usually hits him when he's on the couch, but this is no DIY laptop affair: HudMo and Lunice took to a highend London studio to bang out these five cuts, and the results sound properly expensive.  Ironically, they arrived at this point by process of subtraction. Where something like Gunplay's \"Jump Out\" crams well over a hundred SFX triggers into its short runtime, creating the kind of sonic swarm that threatens to swallow itself, TNGHT's take on postLuger smashandbash drama is clean and precise. The simplicity is deceptive next to the record's volume, and its minimalist approach, rounding off every seismic charge with a futuristic crispness that recalls Timbaland's gamechanging creative peak. Another revelation dropped in that TNGHT interview is that there are yettobenamed MCs locked to spit over every single track on this EP some time in the future. It's a promising development, considering that their remix of Waka's recent single \"Rooster in My Rari\", which pulls off the fourleafclover achievement of actually making a Flocka single louder proves that Lunice and HudMo's wordless bombs retain their effectiveness with rappers on them. On their own, though, a keen sense of structure lifts TNGHT's productions above purely functional beattape grooves. The breadth of carnage on the EP's centerpiece, \"Higher Ground\", starts with looped handclaps and vocal samples and quickly ascends to martiallaw status as a synthesized tuba pops in and out to steamroll buildings just for laughs. And \"Goooo\"'s tight tonal coils sound like hot knives slashing through metal by its highanxiety conclusion.  \"[They] rarely work out,\" Birchard told us last month, regarding teaming up with others in the production world. \"I've done loads of collaborations and I'm never totally happy with the outcome because it feels like you're compromising something of yourself in it.\" What's most impressive about TNGHT's sound, then, is how effortlessly cohesive and them it sounds. Those whose ears have been close to the ground over the past three years know that both HudMo and Lunice's solo work shares more than a LuckyMe affiliation specifically, heavythudded bass rhythms, splashes of synth color, and a funfirst approach to melodic phrasing indebted to dance and R&B alike. Separately, they compliment each other, but together, they finish each other's sentences with exclamation points in bold, underlined, 72point type. Since the EP's completion, HudMo and Lunice have been at work on individual solo albums, but their partnership has already yielded results so impressive and ofthemoment that it's likely we haven't heard the last of it. "}