{"label":" Hum and Buzz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18038/homepage_large.1efdc8b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ruth Saxelby","artist":"Ikonika","title":"I Make Lists EP","text":" There is a sample of Ikonika clearing her throat about a minute and a half into the London producer's I Make Lists EP, her first longform release since debut album Contact, Love, Want, Have on Hyperdub in 2010. It's a let'sgetdowntobusiness kind of throat clearing, an aural rolling back of the sleeves before things kick off. And Ikonika really does kick off on I Make Lists. It's an entirely different beast from Contact, Love, Want, Have, which was a highly personal knitting together of her experience growing up on video games and R&B pop, getting into metal and becoming a drummer, and embracing and being embraced by the then wholly southLondon dubstep scene.  Born from memories and echoes of garage, dub, and drum'n'bass, dubstep was the first antigenre genre and, it can and has been argued, lost its way by becoming a genre. That rigidity is something Ikonika has always been wary of; her music is acutely aware of the limitations of borders. As if to make a point, I Make Lists reaches beyond the London scene to the global club underground she has become a crucial part of over the last couple of years, both as a DJ and owner of the Hum + Buzz label she runs with partner Optimum, releasing records by New YorkviaChicago's Brenmar and Sydney's Dro Carey.  Flight lines, lasers, and firework trails crisscross throughout the record; it is bold, ballsy and high on adrenaline. There is plenty of acid, funk, gnarly bass, and yet more evidence of Ikonika's wily way with melody and synths that scissorkick like hyperactive, highpitched Middle Eastern rhythms. There is a sense that this is a record that would go off in Tel Aviv, in Cape Town, in Mexico City, in Buenos Aires. It also has a kinship with Kingdom's Fade to Mind label in New York as well as with Bok Bok and LVis 1990's Night Slugs in London, both proponents of this most borderless of new club music. Most of all, I Make Lists feels free.  Ikonika lives on the outskirts of London, minutes from Heathrow, and it's this proximity to escape, to worlds beyond your own, that throbs strongest on I Make Lists. The album artwork is an aubergine sky filled with paper airplanelike flying objects, fantasy versions of the crafts that cut across the skyline above the purposebuilt studio in the garden of her house. Continuing the theme, closing track \"PR812\" is named after a Philippine Airlines flight that was hijacked back in 2000 by a perpetrator who robbed passengers at gunpoint before, incredibly, making his escape by parachute. It's also the most sensually electric track on the record: taut, mournful, and everreaching. Which leads us back to the throatclearing, because ultimately, for all its thrills and spills, I Make Lists is the sound of Ikonika getting ready for her next move. "}