{"label":" Day & Night","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18035/homepage_large.b17bf72d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Poolside","title":"Pacific Standard Time","text":" After spending their careers orbiting seminal indie dance bands like Junior Senior and the Rapture, the L.A.based duo of Filip Nikolic and Jeffrey Paradise started Poolside in 2011. As Nikolic told Pitchfork's Ian Cohen, Poolside provided some relief after they'd spent too much time trying to churn out hits for pop stars. You can hear that step away from the rat race in Pacific Standard Time. It's a disco album that slinks along with the urgency of a teenager on the first day of summer vacation. The album's tempo and temperament call to mind images of a palatial California, where the water is as clear as the sun is bright and the slow drip of time is inconsequential. But the album is ultimately more aligned with the nastier stereotype of L.A., the one where everything looks superficially good from a distance but reveals paperedover flaws the closer you get. Pacific Standard Time, to the band's credit, sounds fantastic: the basslines are fat, the guitars ripple, the keyboards radiate, and the percussion evokes ice rattling around in cocktail glasses. It is also an entirely functional record. Poolside are very clear that they didn't set out to accomplish a damn thing with this album, and if you weren't setting out to accomplish a damn thing with your summer day, you could pick many worse soundtracks. Its 72minute run time is almost hilariously unnecessary, unless of course, you have plans to lie by the water for a few hours. Pacific Standard Time sounds like exactly what it is: an album put together by two guys who have spent their careers DJing and playing in bands behind better, more accomplished songwriters. The taste on display here is impeccable, as is the playing. The best tracks could slot perfectly into hip Balearic revival mixes, but Poolside aren't necessarily redundant. Balearic disco usually moves to transport the listener to the beach. But Pacific Standard Time is distinctly highgloss and narcotic, recalling the slick, bright disco of 1970s acts like the Bee Gees and Chic. The problem, though, is that Poolside don't have the songs to match. Nikolic hasn't sung much in bands before, and the duo acknowledges this by doing things like draping his vocals in effects or mixing them into the track so they're nothing more than another element of sheen. Most of the time, they're not even really needed: songs like \"Kiss You Forever\" or \"California Sunset\" are fine instrumentals turned into facile songs thanks to elementary and disinvested writing. There are songs qua songs here that do work (\"Slow Down\", \"Do You Believe\") but more often than not Nikolic's vocals are distracting and illfitting. The end of the record does hold a bit of a respite though: the beautifully liquid \"Between Dreams\" is thankfully an instrumental, while the sighing comedown \"Take Me Home\" features tastefully deployed singing. Poolside are quick to mention that Pacific Standard Time was put together quickly, and largely while the duo was tipsy. Criticisms are easily deflected. There is ostensibly nothing wrong with writing lifestyle music, even if the lifestyle is so narrow that you actually call yourself Poolside. This album is expertly executed escapism, but bands like Studio, Air France, and Meanderthals have shown us that it's possible to be much, much more. Put on Pacific Standard Time, slap on the sunscreen, lie down, and zone out. Just don't ask it to resonate. "}