{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18043/homepage_large.bef29deb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"The Field","title":"Looping State of Mind Remixe EP","text":" Twenty years ago, dozens of dance remix EPs were released each month, and it was no big deal. They were just tools, admittedly helpful ones, aimed at people who got paid to make people dance. A remix might occasionally be radical or righteous enough to become an alltime anthem, or such an obvious improvement on secondrate source material that it might even replace the original in ravers' esteem. Most remixes, however, were raw materials; even the most fleshedout were still made to be \"completed\" by a creative DJ in the mix. And they usually still are. Just listen the Junior Boys' remix of \"Looping State of Mind\" from this threetrack collection of remixes from the Field's 2011 album of the same name. It is as sonically sumptuous as any of the band's own recent material. Their \"Looping\" mix would make a sparkling little segue in someone's retro electropop set, but on its own, it's a justokay instrumental, or maybe a Junior Boys song in search of the actual song. In 2012, not much has changed about remixes except context. Dozens of remix EPs are still released each month, most of them still no big deal. This Field EP doesn't entirely transcend the limited appeal of a DJ tool, nor is it necessarily trying to, even as it gestures toward the homelistening crowd. True, at least two of these tracks (Blondes' and Mohn's) will probably please those who like to sit in dark rooms and conjure spooky mental movies. And at least two of these tracks (Blondes' and Junior Boys') will probably please those who need groove, whether their interest is as a professional or as a fan. But no one's gonna shut this thing off and feel their mind's been blown, their expectations scrambled, or that they've just heard the possibilities of the remix EP wildly expanded. And that's fine. The pleasures here are traditional, and minor, but they're still pleasures. One thing you can say is that, for better or worse, none of these three tracks sounds much like the Field. The aforementioned Junior Boys mix is the most DJfriendly and functional of the three, but it jettisons the wild textural overload that makes even the Field's most static music feel divein immersive rather than backgroundmusic inert. The result sounds aimless, and yet it's sequenced so precisely that all the juice and life has been wrung out. Recording under their Mohn alias, the duo of Jörg Burger and Wolfgang Voigt takes Looping's least Fieldlike track, the somber wintertime ambient of \"Then It's White\", and slows it even further, stretching the track's already woozy elements into pure shimmer and blur. It's undeniably beautiful stuff, understanding the lonely feeling at the heart of the original and somehow still communicating the same feeling through a much more abstract framework. But after hearing the inventive ways these old hands treated ambient fundamentals on their debut album from earlier this year, this is no more than a topshelf Pop Ambient track. No bad thing, just not much surprise. Which leaves us with Blondes' \"It's Up There\", which best illustrates the minor pleasures and perils of the remix commission that tries to be faithful to the project's objective (pleasing DJs and Field fans) while still bringing in a little of the remixer's own personality. Blondes string up shifting layers of livesounding percussion over the track's seven minutes, braiding and layering and subtracting them according to logic no sequencer would understand. It's a jittery, basementjam approach to house beatmaking that brings some notunwelcome grit and handson energy into the Field's sleekest and most propulsive original, a song that represents the closest he's ever skirted the handsaloft banality of trad trance. But the track's also too bound to the original's forwardmoving form. Those itchy, grotty drums never multiply, zigzag, and spiral out into the weirdo wilderness of Blondes' own best tracks. Ultimately, their \"It's Up There\" remains a muted trance tune with a novel rhythm overlay. It'll sound good for a time at the appropriate clubs, and it's a cool way to rehear the original. But much like this EP as whole, it's doing a job, however well, rather than trying to wow you. Maybe it just needs that creative DJ to take it all the way. "}