{"label":" Underwater Peoples","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18056/homepage_large.b47bfb82.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan Minsker","artist":"The Memories","title":"The Memories","text":" One of the most fun shows I've seen this year was by the Portland band White Fang. They played the hallway of a bar, drank heavily, were halfnaked, and played a bunch of twominute songs where the titles basically said it all (\"Can't Deal With Being Real\", \"Drugs on the Moon\", \"I Can't Skate\"). It was an allpower, nostakes snotrock show, and it was awesome. So it came as a surprise to learn that the same shirtless, spazzy group of dudes have an album on Underwater Peoples, the label behind some elegant janglepop releases by Real Estate, Twerps, Julian Lynch, Ducktails, and more. But the album isn't a White Fang album, per se members of that band made it under the name the Memories. So let's get into the semantic differences between the Memories and White Fang. The live bands share members, but on their selftitled album, it's just frontman Erik Gage and guitarist Kyle Handley. Both mostly make songs that clock in under two minutes. In terms of subject matter, both bands have plenty of material about girls and getting high. The biggest difference, then, comes from each band's approach. White Fang have great rock'n'roll songs, but they aren't what you'd call \"subtle\" or \"quiet.\" The Memories are the other side of that coin: They jangle; they infuse their songs with ebullient moments of atmosphere; and they deliver some straightforward, honesttogod ballads. Now granted, the leadin ballad may be titled \"Baby (You're Totally Crazy)\", but ridiculous name aside, it's entirely beautiful. For just over a minute, Gage's vocals are tempered to a coo, singing a demure verse over a fingerpicked melody. And throughout Memories, there are quiet, mellow moments led by a nofrills guitar hook. It also helps that the band trims all the fat the LP features only the necessary verses and instrumentals, and there's not much in the way of bridges or repetition. \"Softly\" sounds like it could've gone on for at least two more verses, but fades out before we get the chance to hear them (and the song is stronger for it). The shortest song here is one minute and four seconds, and the entire album clocks in at 19 minutes. And although that means it's over pretty soon after it began, the band hits all the sweet spots without an extra second of unnecessary or indulgent songwriting. The biggest thing potentially to work against the band is its lyrics. Lines like \"when she's takin' off my pants, I know what to do\" (from \"I Know What to Do\" like White Fang, the Memories have pretty direct titles) will probably get some kneejerk negative reactions. But again, it helps that every song is counterbalanced by an unassuming, simple chord progression. There are definitely moments that smack of the early1990s slacker songwriter aesthetic, as on \"Clueless\", where the central character has stolen money, smokes a bunch of weed, and doesn't know what to do with his life. But within the universe of Memories, that song's aesthetic totally works. It'd be easy to look at The Memories as a cheap attempt by White Fang to masquerade as a chill Underwater Peoples band. But that's not the case at all the album isn't unrealistic in its scope. In length, it's comparable to White Fang's records. The subject matter is material that they've visited before. And like their White Fang records, it's a collection of songs with solid hooks at the core. The album is a testament to Gage and Handley's sonic flexibility, and even though they clock out after 19 minutes, they make sure each minute hits. "}