{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18064/homepage_large.7d5cc4c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various","title":"Country Funk 1969-1975","text":"    \"I wanna dedicate this song to the three cities that I had the pleasure of recording this tune in. Give a listen and you'll hear 'em.\" That's Dale Hawkins introducing \"L.A. Memphis Tyler Texas,\" the heraldic leadoff track on Light in the Attic's new compilation, Country Funk 196911975. Those cities are an awfully long way from each other, but Hawkins' song makes up the miles with its feisty Bluff City horns, gritty Texas guitars, and glitzy Hollywood groove. Geography is crucial to understanding the hazy genre called country funk, which was neither an organized scene nor a simple mix of country and funk. There was no central label or venue around which its practitioners congregated, and the compilation suggests that there were no rules either. Instead, these tracks are points on a map, representing nearly every corner of America and seemingly endless musical possibilities. \"L.A. Memphis Tyler Texas\" makes a perfect introduction to Country Funk because it announces a new way of thinking about country music: In the late 1960s and especially in the early 1970s, country was breaking out of its native spaces and spreading nationwide. Its roots were in Tennessee and Texas, but it had business to take care of in New York, Detroit, and points west. Immediately following Hawkins' fanfare is John Randolph Marr's \"Hello L.A., ByeBye Birmingham\", a picaresque about a songwriter seeking out fame and fortune. Proving a poignant third act is Johnny Adams' \"Georgia Morning Dew\", about living in L.A. but missing home. These three songs map out territory well beyond the bayou and the holler, leaving behind the downhome and celebrating the worldly. This is no accident of sequencing: As country expanded from a niche market and into the mainstream, it was also expanding economically, socially, racially. You had stars like Johnny Paycheck, whose earnest voice and solid songwriting transcended novelty; you had Robert Altman's Nashville, a local epic pitched somewhere between condescending and admiring; you had country stars hosting televised variety shows and starring in series about truck drivers and movies about cowboys (long after the heyday of Gene Autry and Tex Ritter). Not only was country music selling to more listeners than ever, but around the time of the bicentennial, it was becoming identified as something truly and broadly American rather than just a curious regional style. Country Funk recreates this shift smartly, compiling songs by white artists playing with black sounds and black artists playing with white sounds, all without drawing neat parallels between these musical traditions. There are fading stars trying to keep up with the kids (yes, that Bob Darin), crossgenre oddballs (Jim Ford), also and neverrans (Dennis the Fox), session musicians bootscooting into the spotlight (Cherokee), and even a few country superstars (Tony Joe White). It's a lot for one 70minute album to contain, especially considering country funk may have only really existed as a cohesive category in hindsight. Fortunately, the impetus of Country Funk isn't historical accuracy or even critical rehabilitation. Instead, it intends primarily to be a badass playlist, an altuniverse Nuggets that flirts with kitsch but crams its tracklist with unexpected ideas and flourishes, unlikely filigrees of grit and invention. Even something as potentially campy as Dennis the Fox's \"Piledriver\" transcends silliness and just rocks imaginatively, with its driving drumbeat, insinuating groove, and those lost, confused, sexy backing vocals. Along with this worldlier version of country music came a new attitude toward the stock characters of the genre. \"Piledriver\" is a trucker anthem, but the kick is, its subject isn't your typical burly cowboy but a \"piledrivin', mean mothertrucker of a girl.\" More pointedly, Mac Davis, a session musician turned solo artist, sings \"Lucas Was a Redneck\" with no little disgust, taking a stereotype that other artists have lionized he's dressed like Johnny Cash's \"Country Boy,\" bears some resemblance to Merle Haggard's \"Okee from Muskogee\" and condemning him as a drunkard and a bigot who will leave only hate and shame when he dies. Country funk turned out to be a surprisingly broad scene, such as it was, and Country Funk isn't just full of white guys. Bobbie Gentry's \"He Made a Woman Out of Me\" rewrites \"Son of a Preacher Man\" and somehow manages to intensify both the sweaty sexuality and the bittersweet reminiscence. Gentry was one of the first female artists to write and produce her own material, and her signature mix of swampy R&B rhythms and lush soul vocals shows just how elastic the term \"country\" could become. I'd also say that she is perhaps the most underrated singer of the era, country or otherwise, and by way of argument would point you to \"Niki Hoeky\" or \"Fancy\" or really anything off Ode to Billie Joe. Country Funk ends with Georgia R&B guitarist Johnny Jenkins' mighty cover of Dr. John's \"I Walk on Gilded Splinters\" (which Beck famously sampled on \"Loser\"). Jenkins is backed by the Allman Brothers, and the multiracial unit creates an ungodly and unrelenting jam that reminds you of something very important: While this music occupies an intriguing place in pop history, it is first and foremost exciting to listen to. There's a kick in hearing the slinky drums on Bobby Charles' otherwise laidback \"Street People\" or endtimes vocals on Link Wray's \"Fire and Brimstone\". More than any genre or style, that sense of effusive engagement with such a wide range of materials and perspectives binds these artists together, no matter how disparate their background or their music. \"It just goes to show ya,\" Hawkins himself exclaims, \"You can take the soul pickers out of the country, but you can't take the soul out of the pickers.\"  "}