{"label":" Candlelight","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18066/homepage_large.64acf98f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Ihsahn","title":"Eremita","text":" Ihsahn's goal likely isn't laughter: In press photos, the Emperor cofounder and vocalist looks frighteningly focused, his glare, posture, and poses simultaneously suggesting a high LaVey disciple, a merciless tyrant, and, rightly, the famous singer of an infamous band. And on Eremita, his latest album under his longtime stage name, Ihsahn opens with \"Arrival\", ends with \"Departure\", and makes requisite narrativearc stops at \"Introspection\", \"Grief\", and \"Catharsis\". As with most of Ihsahn's work, there's an appreciable influence of classical music at the core, so that the record moves more like a featurelength presentation than a string of unconnected assaults. Whether that means synthesizer interludes or bits of field recordings lacing the edges of these long, layered songs, Eremita bears all the necessary sigils of a very serious metal album.  Still, even if unintentionally, it's also kind of goofy and fun. Those qualities are apparent at that start, when sampled sounds and ambient noise instantly give way to a rapidfire guitar riff and a beefy organ tone more familiar from progressive rock. Ihsahn squawks his way through the verses, but he hands the chorus a massive, arenarock inlet about giving up or going on to Einar Solberg, who treats it a bit like an Evanescence refrain. That's not even an insult. There's a hyperkinetic guitar solo, a little duet exchange between Ihsahn and Solberg, and a mellowout moment just ahead of a flameout coda; it's tawdry and awesome, strangely complementary qualifiers that fit the bulk of Eremita. \"Introspection\", for instance, oscillates between tense techmetal stretches and languid, acousticled drifts (with, no less, hand drums), and the hyperbolic juxtaposition mostly makes each part that much more ridiculous and enjoyable.  If last year was indie rock's time with the saxophone, Napalm Death and Ihsahn have now swiped that brassy mantle for heavy metal: Jorgen Munkeby of wildeyed Norwegian ensemble Shining adds horns to the nineminute \"The Eagle and Snake\", a gloriously restless epic that makes time for deathmetal stomp, a spiraling solo from guitarist Jeff Loomis, brooding military marches, and two stretches of saxophone shrapnel that raise the wager of this year's earlier John Zorn and Napalm Death pairing. And though \"Catharsis\" first feigns intentions as a scowling, slinking interlude with Munkeby weaving Middle Eastern melodies beneath Ihsahn's raspy voice, the song soon morphs into pianobacked pop. The saxophone serves as textural ballast, supporting the melody as though this were a slab of Laurel Canyon albumrock. On a record of constant misdirection and omnipresent unpredictability, it's a subtle affirmation that, no matter if he's trading in black metal or dealing out Pentanglelike rock, Ihsahn is a thorough, savvy arranger.  The final track yes, \"Departure\" opens with horn sighs and hightails alternately into midtempo rock'n'roll and a neargrindcore blitz. It ends rather dramatically with a soliloquy sung by Ihsahn's wife and longtime collaborator, Heidi S. Tveitan; think Sigur Rós spliced between bits of modern rock radio. If you've tracked Ihsahn's career at all, this sort of irreverence and integration likely comes as little news. Remember, despite their foundational role in both the musical and extracurricular priorities of Scandinavian black metal, that band tested the limits of its own style and standards for the last two decades, both for better and worse; and that's just the sliver of Ihsahn's career for which he's best known. But Eremita feels not only particularly unbridled but exceptionally rewarding, too, with most of its twists and tangents working as nearcomplete surprises. In the last few years, many of those central to the second wave of black metal have retrenched with orthodoxy or traded in corpsepaint for something somehow sillier. Here, Ihsahn occasionally reveals his more savage roots while succeeding by and large with shocking routes. Sure, maybe Eremita is sometimes awkward, chintzy, or melodramatic, but for 52 minutes, Ihsahn mostly allows the listener to have a blast, if occasionally and arguably at his own expense.   "}