{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18063/homepage_large.c1bb3851.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Erin Macleod","artist":"Jimmy Cliff","title":"Rebirth","text":" \"If you have current songs you can't be an oldies singer,\" insisted the late, prolific Jamaican singer Sugar Minott. \"Oldies are people who've stopped singing and gone on to do other jobs and every now and then, people dig them up and say, 'Let's go do an oldies show.' And when they finish that night they go back to their jobs. But we don't have no other jobs. Ken Boothe still sings, Frankie Paul still sings, Cocoa Tea still sings.\" Looks like we could add Jimmy Cliff to Minott's list. Rebirth is less a resurrection than a reaffirmation of the power of the now 64yearold Cliff's remarkable tenor voice and politically lyrical acumen. Not to mention the power of roots rock reggae. Produced by Rancid's Tim Armstrong, the music here is predominantly a pitchperfect versioning of 1970s reggae. Rebirth not only has Cliff revisioning his roots, but so too Armstrong, whose career began back in the late 1980s with the ska punk sounds of Operation Ivy. The drums are crisp, background vocals silky smooth, bass is perfectly relaxed, and horns sound clean, pure and clear. Unlike a great deal of recent music from Jamaica, absolutely nothing is AutoTuned. The band, the Engine Room, is incredibly, wonderfully tight, sounding as if they'd just walked out of the 1960s and Coxsone Dodd's Studio One on some tracks and 1970s Channel One (home to the legendary Sly and Robbie) on others. And yes, there are some punky moments, but they are perfectly positioned such as in the rootsy, surfguitar littered \"Bang\".  The album kicks off with the bouncy and poppy, politically pointed \"World Upside Down\", which could easily replace \"You Can Get It If You Really Want\" as the opening tune to The Harder They Come, the film that introduced Jimmy Cliff and, arguably, reggae to the world way back in 1972. It's been 40 years since Perry Henzell's landmark film, but Cliff couldn't sound more present. Rebirth is a theatrical piece of work, with Cliff telling stories, chatting about revolution, providing falsetto interludes, and even sometimes shouting. There's a level of excitement here that continues throughout the album—an excitement about just how great reggae music can be. Again, although retro, this isn't a revitalization, but rather a reminder that tiny Jamaica's musical legacy continues.  The recent release of the lovingly crafted, Kevin MacDonalddirected Marley, in which wellworn Bob Marley and the Wailers tracks sounded as urgent as ever provided 2012 listeners with a heads up: The sound of barebones reggae can still be goosebumpinducingly powerful. Cliff, the man who originally took Bob Marley to the studio, provides a strong, soaring vocal on \"One More\" yet another example of reggae that provokes shivers. As a song that expresses the very need to keep singing, it's no surprise that there are two versions on the record one that takes ska as its starting point and another that builds an even more driving rhythm, but ends the whole album with an anthemic, singalong flourish that seems to encourage the audience to continue even after it's over. It's difficult not to picture a crowd jumping up and down, begging Cliff for an encore. \"Outsider\", which dabbles in straightup 1960sstyle American R&B, offers a tip of the hat to the sound that influenced so many Jamaican musicians in the early days of reggae. It's just the kind of track to keep that party going. Repainting the Clash's \"Guns of Brixton\" with a touch of dub and Rancid's \"Ruby Soho\" with a lilting ska approach makes these tracks more than covers. Like \"Outsider\", they're additional musical history lessons, teaching that both the energy and the sound of punk rock whether based in London or Berkeley connects directly back to Jamaica.  And, as Jamaica edges toward its 50th anniversary as an independent nation on August 6, there's been much talk about how the country wants to represent itself on the world stage. Arguments abound about whether \"On a Mission\", the Shaggyproduced, technoinfluenced song should be the official song of Jamaica 50 versus Mikey Bennett's more traditional (but strangely salsa tinged) reggae track \"Find the Flag\". It's too bad no one consulted Jimmy Cliff. Rebirth, as an album, is a perfect companion to Jamaica's independence. It reaches back to the era of ska, travels through the era of rockers and roots reggae, and demonstrates the power of the music today. Don't let anyone tell you that dancehall has fully taken over any soundsystem worth its salt knows that it must always pay respect to the foundation, to reggae.  On \"Reggae Music\", Cliff makes it crystal clear. He recounts the famous story of recording his first tune at Beverley's Leslie Kong's ice cream parlor/recording studio on Orange Street, Kingston in 1962. Taking it from there, he then runs down the history of reggae over the past fifty years since independence, making it all the way to the present day, declaring that \"Now 2012 reggae music is still here as the voice of people everywhere.\" It's certainly not oldies Jimmy Cliff is singing. And we should all be glad he don't have no other job.   "}