{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1673/homepage_large.c4450f17.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Cul de Sac / Damo Suzuki","title":"Abhayamaudra","text":" Since returning to performing music in the mid90s after long layoff, Damo Suzuki has become something of an avantgarde Chuck Berry, schlepping from town to town to jam with local musicians (who by appearing with him become the \"Network\") as part of his Never Ending Tour. In 2002 and 2003, he toured the U.S. and Europe with Cul de Sac as his backing band, but the method conformed to Suzuki's \"instant composition\" dictum: hours after meeting each other for the first time, Suzuki and Cul de Sac played their first show together.Abhayamudra collects 11 long pieces from those tours, most of which range between nine and 20 minutes. Supposedly Suzuki rang up Cul de Sac after hearing one of their albums, and it's not surprising he heard something in the band that he could work with. Early 70s Can is a huge influence on Cul de Sac, and on record they periodically break out an uncanny impersonation of Holger & Co. (see \"Tailing the Strangler\" from the Strangler's Wife soundtrack). In spirit, if not quite sound, we'll probably never get closer than this to a reunion of Suzukiera Can.Though \"instant composition\" seemingly could lead to chaos, many of these tracks are quite orderly and structured. Cul de Sac's monster rhythm section of Jonathan LaMaster (bass) and Jon Proudman (drums) give the upbeat pieces shape, becoming the hulking mass at the center around which the other players orbit. The opening \"Beograd 1\" has a thrusting beat reminiscent of Eno's \"Third Uncle\" (which, of course, owed a lot to Can) as Glenn Jones lets his guitar bleed feedback all over the tightly measured rhythms. Soaring above it all is Suzuki, ranting at the sky like he's back busking in Munich. Suzuki is really more of a riffbased singer, shrieking out short phrases of sound (don't recognize much here in terms of words) that always exist in direct relation to what the other musicians are doing.On rocking tracks like \"Beograd 1\" and \"Berlin 3\" (where Proudman displays his perfect Jaki Leibezeit tone) the record's promise is realized, and the result is an infectious sense of creative alchemy that can only be described in spiritual terms. For minutes at a time, years of the farout new ageisms Suzuki has spouted in interviews make perfect sense. But balancing out these sublime moments are a few impressionist soundscape pieces that seem to drag forever. On \"Baltimore 5\" Cul de Sac quivers quietly in the background, spinning out the occasional guitar arpeggio from the cloud of cymbal wash, while Suzuki, mixed too high, babbles on and on.That's the nature of experimentation; sometimes you wind up with a pile of broken beakers and noxious gasses stinking up the lab. You still have to hand it to Suzuki for staying on his utterly unique path for this long, and to Cul de Sac for continuing to challenge themselves. They could be making easier choices at this point in their respective careers, but that would keep them from Abhayamudra's occasional moments of bliss. "}