{"label":" 3 Lobed","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18073/homepage_large.3a4f0fe9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Glacial","title":"On Jones Beach","text":" Somewhere between notes and noise, between chords and discord, lives Lee Ranaldo's guitar. Even in his most dense, abstract moments, there are melodies and rhythms bubbling below, and no matter how tuneful he gets, his sound burns at the edges and threatens to melt into chaos. At the times when he's doing his best work, he rides that divide like a skateboarder gliding on a rail, effortlessly shifting from side to side as though he's simply flipping a switch. The single, 42minute track that constitutes Glacial's first fulllength album, On Jones Beach, is one of those times. Teaming with David Watson and drummer Tony Buck both of whom also know how to blur boundaries Ranaldo extends his guitar attack into one of its most allencompassing expressions ever. The group doesn't just morph melody and abstraction; at various points they sound like a drone symphony, a freejazz experiment, an improvisedrock power trio, an ambient ensemble, and a confrontational noise outfit. Yet thinking of On Jones Beach as an assembly of stylistic parts would miss its core sonic unity. That unity comes from how smoothly the group merges modes and textures, but more so from the energy they inject throughout. I find myself focused less on what any given moment sounds like than how compelling that sound is. Often it's also oddly catchy; even the densest sections have a semblance of hook. The result is like an instrumental rock song blown up so that every buildup, crescendo, and denouement becomes its own universe. In that sense, On Jones Beach recalls the Dead C, who possess a similar gift for turning massive din into primal rock (Buck is particularly deft at simple, hypnotic beats). It's also tempting to hear parallels to Sonic Youth, since this was recorded in the band's Echo Canyon studios in 2005, the year in between Sonic Nurse and Rather Ripped. But I don't detect any direct connections between where that group was at that point and what Glacial are up to here. The trio is distinctly its own beast, especially when Watson trades his guitar for bagpipes. It's stunning how he can make that decidedly nonrock instrument sound like a guitar, and just as stunning how unique it sounds when it takes center position in Glacial's evolving mix. The digital download that comes with the LPonly On Jones Beach offers a version of the title track that's five minutes longer, as well as three more pieces recorded prior to the Echo Canyon session. Two come from Buck's first live appearance with the group in 2003 (Ranaldo and Watson had previously used a rotating cast of drummers); a third is taken from a 2006 gig at the late NYC avantgarde mecca Tonic. The latter is particularly interesting, offering chiming Ranaldo tones and a closing saxlike burst of Watson's bagpipes. But as good as they are, none of these three additions matches the urgency and drive of \"On Jones Beach\". In fact, it's hard to think of much else in any of these three musicians' careers that compares to this epic piece. Perhaps those careers are so rich and accomplished that, in the calm light of reflection, words like \"best\" don't really apply. But when On Jones Beach is playing, I'm convinced this is one of the best records Ranaldo, Buck, and Watson have ever taken part in. "}