{"label":" Finders Keepers","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18070/homepage_large.12831ee5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Various","title":"Strange Passion: Explorations in Irish Post Punk 1980-83","text":" Postpunk was so fractured and localized that it's perhaps unsurprising that tiny pockets of activity continue to reveal themselves. Still, this collection of tracks culled from Irish postpunk, DIY, and electronic musicians circa 198083 carries an uncommon weight, sounding less like a footnote and more like a series of essential transmissions from a set of socially and politically disenfranchised musicians. It marks the first release for Finders Keepers' new offshoot label Cache Cache, which promises to reissue \"shyly excitable electric pop music.\" Strange Passion consists of tracks pulled from rare vinyl and cassette releases, all lovingly collated by Dublin DJ Darren McCreesh, who completes the package with insightful sleeve notes and minibios of all the artists. The mood ranges from prickly Gang of Fourstyle aggression to contemplative electronic works that pick up a strand left dangling by Brian Eno's ambient pieces. Most compilations that try to make similar abridgments between conflicting styles feel messy and unfocused, but here the eclecticism acts as a nearperfect précis of the wideranging impulses that have fallen under the \"postpunk\" umbrella since it was coined. But there are also ties that bind these acts, principally in the underlying themes of futuregazing and disenchantment that burrow deep into the scruffy heart of postpunk. \"Ireland in the 70s and 80s was in the grip of uncertainty,\" writes McCreesh in the sleeve notes. \"Conflict in the north, social conservatism in the south, both fueled by religious hegemony and a truly desperate economic situation.\" Out of such shaky foundations came the urgent bursts of expression Strange Passion documents, guided by documentation of the wider postpunk movement from the local music press and radio broadcasts by RTÉ and John Peel's BBC show. The bestknown act here, Gavin Friday's Virgin Prunes, do their best to assimilate the feel of cheap amphetamines in song, with a short, trebley barrage of energy that feels like they're repeatedly sticking a fork in your leg. At times it's telling just how much of a debt some of these acts owe to things happening elsewhere. Dogmatic Element's \"Just Friends\" is a wellexecuted piece of Slits worship, while the Peridots' \"No Water\" roughly slots into the experiments with brooding electronics conducted by Sheffield acts Cabaret Voltaire and the Human League. Conversely, the music of Roger Doyle, working here under his Operating Theatre alias with actress Olwen Fouere, stretches out into more unique spaces. Their \"Austrian\" is a perfectly eccentric twist on cranky electronic pop that occasionally sounds like Diamanda Galás fronting the Flying Lizards. So the artists on Strange Passion may have been borrowing heavily, but many of them brought their own takes on crossgenre pollinization to the table. The wonderfully named Chant! Chant! Chant! primarily operate in an indie funk space similar to that of A Certain Ratio or Chakk, but wrap up the package with featherweight jangly guitars and sulky teen vocal angst. Stano's \"Town\" draws on the Nile Rodgerslike guitar lines that Orange Juice were channeling in Glasgow, except here it's matched by punk vocal sneers that lend it a neat light/dark juxtaposition. Throwing discordant elements into the mix to see what comes out is firmly in keeping with the spirit of the times, but the desire to create another fork in the road, to not just slavishly replicate what came before, is what makes this album (and postpunk as a genre) such a consistently fascinating area to reexplore. McReesh admits there are further Irish bands from this era who are worthy of investigation, although Strange Passion is likely to be the cream of the crop. What's most interesting about it as a historical document is how this music tapped into a prevailing feeling and ended up so energized despite being cut off from the rest of the world. It's a mood that seems to have been mirrored everywhere at the time bands like Primitive Calculators and the Marching Girls finding a tiny but essential space in Australia, playing like their lives depended on it even though the world wasn't listening. Local acts not achieving global recognition isn't an unusual phenomenon per se even in the internet era, there are likely to be hundreds of provincial chillwave artists who achieved nothing more than local renown, albeit with better distribution channels at their disposal. But the difference is that bands like Major Thinkers and the Threat, both included here, gained strength from such insular surroundings, proving that a lonely shout in the dark can be just as vital as one that brings people together on a mass scale. "}