{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18068/homepage_large.45dfd9a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Guardian Alien","title":"See the World Given to a One Love Entity","text":" The murky, primordial drone rock that Guardian Alien make is difficult to talk about directly, mostly because it wants to transport you somewhere ecstatically preverbal. At its best, it renders you glassyeyed, interacting with its texture the way you would a particularly plush rug after multiple bong rips: pure, mindless feel. The band builds one titanic, steady wall of sound over 37 minutes that never shifts dramatically: It thickens, lightens, surges, subsides. It's mantra music, and if it succeeds, it commands your senses on a level that surpasses faculties of articulation entirely. The band, which formed in 2010, has roots in several other heady, transcendencefocused efforts. Its main member is Greg Fox, the calmly superhuman drummer who departed from artmetal outfit Liturgy last year, dealing such a crippling blow to that band's DNA that they still appear to be sorting out how to continue existing. (They have currently opted for a brutal drum machine that almost works as a bleak metajoke about his irreplaceability.) Lead singer and guitarist Alex Drewchin of the psychpop band Eartheater claims heavy influence from Sufi mysticism. Turner Williams, Jr., performs on a woody, notebending zither instrument called a shaahi baja. Other sometime members include guitarist Bernard Gann, still of Liturgy, and bassist Eli Winograd, who plays in a noisefolk band called Two Prong. Together, they produce a sweatslicked, heavily perfumed chemistry, an opium den with ventilation problems. The single composition that is See the World Given to a One Love Entity looks as aimless as a screensaver on the surface, but the outfit maintains a lightfingered grip on the music's pulse, steering it through extended soloing passages without slackening the album's basic throughline. The record glows with the intensity of their shared concentration. It is an experience to be taken whole or not at all: There is about as much use in noting the music's developments as there is in narrating the details of an acid trip. An upsetting asphyxiated babygoatlike noise at about the 21:20 mark surfaces from the bottom of the music's texture, floats to the top, and sends a shiver up your spine. Then, it stops, the drone closes back in, and the music's serene bubble reforms. If there is a single thing to take away from the totality of See the World, it is the sheer joy of hearing Greg Fox drumming again. If you think of drumming, somehow, as mechanically rhythmic, or purely muscular, or a bedrock function upon which more melodic and/or dynamic things are laid if you don't listen to a lot of other music outside rock, in other words Fox might be a good gateway drug out of this line of thinking. His drumming has a harp player's nuance and inner voicings. The album's pulse never overly complicates itself, but Fox's playing is its own lesson on how to keep time while dancing atop it. He is on a short list of drummers whose extended solos you could easily imagine listening to. See the World belongs in a lineage of tribal guitar rock bands meant to shake loose titanic emotions: Oneida, Boredoms, Grails, Swans, Om. Of all of these groups, they have the least amount of dread and darkness: The music is heavy, and very impressive, but slightly monochromatic. There is none of the clammy, wideeyed approachingGorgon horror of Swans, the quasireligious release of Oneida or Om, the dark mystery of Grails. If they fall short in any way, it's in the somewhat limited range of thirdeyeopening options they provide: Maybe over time, they can take on more colors. "}