{"label":" Demon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18069/homepage_large.af5147fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Luke Haines","title":"Outsider/In: The Collection","text":" It's interesting to look at photographs of Luke Haines from early in his career and compare them to his current psychoticcricketer phase. In the early 1990s he had flowing blond locks, was mercifully shorn of all facial hair, and could even be described as \"cherubic\" at a push. But there was still a pitiless look in his eyes in press shots. This wasn't Haines preparing for a life in the music industry; it was Haines preparing for a lifelong bout of antagonizing everyone and everything around him. After a few false starts, he formed the Auteurs and got lifted up in the afterglow of the thenascendant Suede, whom his band supported on tour, helping blast open the doors for a distinctly English strain of songwriting after years of grungesoaked fervor. Naturally, Haines has little time for Suede, or the ensuing Britpop scene, or indeed anything else that has had the misfortune to come into contact with him over the years. Thankfully, he's become an expert and, at times, very funny documenter of his own life. His first of two books, Bad Vibes: Britpop and My Part in Its Downfall, was a deliciously brutal ode to hatred, cynicism, and bitterness, all powered by Haines' unshakable belief in his own talent. In 2005 a compilation titled Luke Haines Is Dead was released, gathering a mixture of singles, outtakes, and rarities from his career. Outsider/In is a more focused collection, packaged in a cover so hideous that it looks like Haines' jaw is slowly drooping into his chest. It's hard not to see that photograph as a deliberate aesthetic choice, although it's possible that Haines had little to do with the packaging of this compilation. Nick Cave went through a deliberate process of musical and personal uglification when he formed Grinderman, causing him to revel in a level of repugnancy that felt like a huge creative shot in the arm for him. Haines, 10 years Cave's junior, had already been down there a long time at that point. In the mid 90s he thought it would be a good idea to release a couple of singles (both included here) from the Auteurs' third album, the Steve Albiniproduced After Murder Park. He chose \"Light Aircraft on Fire\", about people burning to death at 10,000 feet; and \"Unsolved Child Murder\", the title of which must have really thrilled the radio pluggers at the Auteurs' major record label. It's tempting to say \"we need more like him,\" but we don't. Haines' work resonates precisely because of his lack of peers, gaining strength from having no one willing or able to descend to his depths The first disc from this this 2xCD set leans heavily on the Auteurs' 1993 debut New Wave, in which he was pedaling less sinister wares. Here, Haines is as fameobsessed as a number of his reluctant Britpop counterparts, albeit with odd diversions into the hatred that would come to shape him on tracks like \"Valet Parking\" and \"Home Again\". Try counting the amount of times the word \"star\" appears in the lyrics on New Wave, and you'll quickly lose count. It would be easy to paint Haines as someone who collapsed into bitterness as his audience diminished and he tired of the industry mechanisms he bemoans in Bad Vibes. But Haines is a more complex character than that. His chops as a songwriter sharpened in direct inverse to his work as a musician, with throwaway songs chained to impressively catchy melodies (\"Show Girl\", \"Lenny Valentino\") giving way to intelligent lyrics tied to less inspired backings (\"The Spook Manifesto\", \"England vs America\"). What binds this wayward collection, with its diversions into the unlikely uziq remix project and tracks pulled from Haines' concept album about the notorious urban guerilla group Baader Meinhof, is his authoritative vocal work. Often it sounds like he's deliberately straining, adding an extra dose of misanthropy to proceedings. At other times he's up in his higher registry, then moving close to a whisper, buttering us up with a deceptive sweetness until you remember he's singing about killing a modern artist (\"Death of Sarah Lucas\"). When tracks are stripped out like this it can feel like Haines' is striving to make a Big Statement every time he steps in front of a microphone, and while there is a kernel of truth in that, it's largely a flaw in listening to his music this way, especially when his last brush with populism (in the group Black Box Recorder) is nowhere to be found on Outsider/In. Instead, we get something that's flawed, ugly, and doesn't work quite right all essential components in Haines' askew take on the world.   "}