{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18072/homepage_large.4f67dcba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"Kitty Pryde","title":"haha i'm sorry EP","text":" Earlier this year, the The New York Times reported on a new study about the speech patterns of young women. Linguists from Long Island University published a paper that examined 18to25yearold women's use of uptalk (which is when you talk? like this?), the word \"like\" as filler, and a phenomenon known as vocal fry, which they rather longwindedly defined as \"a form of phonation, characterized by a distinct laryngeal vibratory pattern,\" but, like, you know what they meannnnnn. The easy assumption is that anyone (especially over 18) who talks like this is stupid, artless, and possibly related to a Kardashian, but linguists now conclude just the opposite: \"A lot of these really flamboyant things you hear... girls are using them to achieve some kind of interactional and stylistic end.\"  Of course, you already knew that if you've turned on a radio in the past few years. Nicki Minaj is the poet laureate of vocal fry, and her verse on Britney Spears' \"Till the World Ends\" remix is a master class in mining this effect for laughs: \"Sniff, sniff, criiiiiiiiies/ I done staged your whole entire fucking liiiiiiife.\" This aspect of Minaj's flow both embraces and exaggerates the way that young women allegedly talk to each other, and pushes it until it feels artificial, absurd, and even a little bit uncomfortable. When she says, \"It's Britney, biiiiiiiiitch,\" she holds the vowel so long you want to take a breath for her. In the most practical sense, the rapid internet fame (a video nearing 400,000 views, a mention in The New York Times, a style shoot with Danny Brown) of 19yearold Florida rapper/Claire's Boutique associate Kitty Pryde owes something to the rapper that she's called \"the queen of [her] heart.\" \"I was hanging out with my friends and we were listening to Nicki Minaj,\" Kitty says of the first time she tried rapping, \"And every time we would listen to [\"Roger That\"], we would just go over the song and do different lyrics.\" But while her talent is much slighter and less adroitly theatrical than Minaj's, Kitty similarly embraces girl culture while slyly, smartly caricaturing it. Like all of her boldest lines, the chatter that opens her microhit \"okay cupid\" may seem either perfect or cloyingly inevitable: \"Get outta my rooooom.\" That story from The New York Times (excuse me, the Fucking New York Times) is relevant to the questions that were asked when Kitty's selfrecorded demos (\"Justin Bieber\", The Lizzie McGuire Experience) first blipped the radar a few months ago. Because of her voice and presentation, people wondered: Is she a precocious 14yearold or a markettested, Carly Rae Jepsenesque 26year old? Is she totally awful or kind of great? Is she actually in on the joke? haha i'm sorry may not put these questions to bed, but to act like Kitty Pryde is guileless is to miss the wryness and selfawareness that's crucial to her music and persona.  Her creakyvoiced flow is a perfect stylistic match for the banal, crushstruck things she raps about, as it dances on the smeared line between boredom and Ambien tripping; which is not to say that it's styleless, but that the substance is in the style. Still, unlike her idol Minaj's Beam Me Up Scotty (or her other idol Danny Brown's XXX), the fivetrack haha i'm sorry isn't the sort of scenestorming mixtape that hints at a wideopen future. But it's not artless enough to write off as a meme, either. Instead it's something between those two extremes: the sound of somebody working deliberately within the context of her humble limitations. As ofthemoment as Kitty Pryde feels, she's someone internet culture has been acquainted with since the early days of MySpace photography: the girl who knows her best angles. Each of them is on display on the Beautiful Louproduced \"okay cupid\", her best and most fully realized song by a mallparkinglot mile. Nevermind the Bud Lite Lime in her hand in the video or the references to Adderall; the sharp irony and crafty confidence of Kitty's lines comes from the fact that she's the sober one, the knowing observer. \"Call me sober when you're ready,\" she tells the serial drunkdialer who's stolen her heart, but she's got one up on him because she's able to express the way he makes her feel: \"I'm not familiar with this type of devotion/ I used to be a pimp without emotion/ And now you've got me simpin and singing the Frank Ocean.\" At its fleeting best, Kitty's music captures something human and disarmingly honest about longing in the hyperconnected disconnect of the digital world. Her backandforth with rapper Dankte on \"ay shawty: THE SHREKONING!!!\" starts out like a note passed to a crush during class, but it's later revealed to be something more complicated: an email exchange with somebody smitten with her internet persona but who she's afraid to meet IRL, lest the spell be broken. \"Forget that you never met me,\" she mutters, \"I bet that when you do you will regret wanting to be next to me.\" Still, haha i'm sorry shows a problematically narrow range despite the fact that it's only 12andahalf minutes long. Certain repeated details (the Adderall dependency, the chewtoy squeaks on \"orion's belt\", the giggly jokes about scabies) feel more like placeholders than idiosyncrasies meant to add texture to her persona. The selfproclaimed \"rap game pest\" is wellversed in the art of trolling, as she indicates on her fuckthehaters anthem, \"smiledog.jpg\". But despite its surface charms, that track exposes her biggest problem: Kitty Pryde too often coasts on the assumption that it's the simple fact of her presence that's garnered all the attention and handwringing surrounding her, not the far more threatening fact that she might actually be a decent rapper. \"You say this little white girl is ruining hiphop/ I say damn right and take a lick of the ring pop/ And smile,\" she drawls, but the track feels like a missed opportunity to do something more than just show up and grin.  When she most effectively mines her selfdeprecation, the tone of haha i'm sorry recalls not so much her cloud rap contemporaries as it does earlyera Anticon, specifically Why?'s 2003 debut Oaklandazulasylum, a twitchy, patchedtogether record that found a young Yoni Wolf confronting similar issues with his own cred (\"I always wanted to be the voice of the streets/ But my father was a rabbi and my mother made beats/ I mean, books/ And the kids from the streets always gave me dirty looks.\") But for every moment that suggests she could be the next Yoni, there's another (\"I am very YouTubeable\") that suggests she might be the next Tay Zonday; for every impulse that suggests haha i'm sorry could be a calling card, there's a gut feeling that it'll age like a glass of milk left out on the counter. But it's not as if Kitty, who'd totally roll her eyes at the word count of this review, cares either way. Is Kitty Pryde The Hottest New Rapper of 2012, some think piece has probably already asked and prematurely answered. But it speaks volumes about her knowing, selfdeprecating appeal that if she heard that question she'd probably be the first to say exactly what you're thinking: yeah riiiiiight.  "}