{"label":" Sincerely Yours","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18076/homepage_large.28b231c5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Colly","artist":"jj","title":"High Summer EP","text":" Here's how the new jj EP starts: Singer Elin Kastlander coos breathily in different tones, some oohs, some ahhs, and the notes build upon themselves, climbing and climbing until they start to sound like angels. And then she sings the following verse. \"See me in your city, looking pretty, yeah I'm shining dog/ With my fresh Air Ones and my dog/ G is black and white, fuck segregation.\" The sound and lyrics (cribbed from T.I. and Lil Wayne anthems) have nothing to do with one another. The contrast is so jarring it's almost laughable. And right here in 30 seconds or so of music, you feel the paradox of this band their ability to make lovely, stirring pop that occasionally falls flat on its face. It's odd because jj have already proven that they can do this sort of thing well. Their music has always been about pastiche and has always incorporated hiphop to some degree. It's resulted in great songs like \"Ecstasy\" that transformed Lil Wayne's \"Lollipop\" into a gurgling Balearic burner without feeling like a winking cover. But even though they clearly love hiphop, there is a fine line in what jj do, where appropriation can suddenly turn into parody, and High Summer struggles to find the right balance. There are moments where their Tumblrized mix of lovelorn indie pop, bouncy Mediterranean club beats, and rap attitude unfurls in a cohesive image stream and there are moments when it does not. The thing jj have had going for them since the start is a solid sense of craft. Their talent for melody was what made jj n°2 sparkle and its absence made the followup drift along aimlessly. When they tap back into that, like they do on \"Big Hearts, Big Dreams\", it's easy to feel some of that old jj magic. A wispy 80sradio synth backdrop connects with modern slabs of bass and computerized drum claps and it all just takes off and goes skyward. Instead of cutandpasting her favorite Weezy bars, Kastlander mixes her own loveandloss experiences with rap boasts like, \"Get high off this weed, then we fly over beats,\" in a way that blurs reality but still leaves a piece of her in it. This is when I think jj are at their best, an introverted pair of friends making escape music. They build a tender track like \"10\" from the beat of TheDream's \"Shawty Is da Shit!\" because they love that song and technology allows them to easily do it. They wrap it up in gentle emoisms (\"Did you forget me?\") and add in sounds of birds chirping because maybe that's what their dreams sound like. It's a fantasy and you're invited. The problem with dreams, everyone knows, is they vanish as quickly as they come. All of a sudden you’re snapped back to a reality where a Swedish woman sings, \"Not only am I fly, I'm fuckin' not playing,\" and it kind of makes you cringe. "}