{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18087/homepage_large.03d787c1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Willits + Sakamoto","title":"Ancient Future","text":"     Ryuichi Sakamoto and Christopher Willits understand the importance of inbetween spaces, those parts that principally function to serve the whole but often peel back to reveal tiny corners of finespun beauty. There are times on Ancient Future, the pair's followup to their 2007 collaboration Ocean Fire, when tracks slide into barely perceptible sound, only to gain a small foothold back into the lattice of muted piano clinks and computerprocessed guitar strokes. That gentle sway between parts sometimes works as the dividing line between light and dark, or as the signal for far subtler shifts in tone and intonation. For an album so deeply entrenched in placidity, it's a surprise lowkey thrill to try and figure out exactly where Sakamoto and Willits are heading once the inclination to make those switches occurs. The title Ancient Future works off a similar sense of flux, caught between the finished and the forthcoming, neatly reflecting the exact inverse of the album's conceptual reflection of the birthlifedeath cycle. Impressively, Sakamoto and Willits tackled such ambitious subject matter after the former sent the latter a series of piano pieces a method of composing that has often worked out well for Sakamoto in his other collaborative works. It's difficult to imagine the parts of these tracks being recorded separately, perhaps even with different ideas on the intent and scope of the project in mind. But somewhere in the process, the idea for Ancient Future was hatched, with its six entirely instrumental tracks designed to encompass the human experience, touching on certain fundamental turns along the way. However, there's nothing remotely earthborn about this material, as longterm fans of either artist won't be surprised to learn. Instead, this feels like a view from the heavens, a remote observation of humankind conducted from a distant star. As such there's a strong sense of detachment throughout this record, of two forces awkwardly trying to understand one another, neatly reflecting the disconnect in Sakamoto and Willits' respective recording processes. The stuttered guitar line that does a tipsy dance across great sheets of processed ambient noise on \"Abandoned Silence\" nurtures that sense of unrefined communication. Ancient Future is an album where the parts don't all fit together naturally, but it's all the stronger for it. It works as a nearperfect reflection of the album's bigger themes, of our attempts to make sense of the world while trying to find the right path and so often stumbling in the process. The playing on \"I Don't Want to Understand\" is masterfully poised on top of a great glacial drone, but Sakamoto and Willits chip great chunks out of it through offkey piano parts and shifting, itchy welts of noise. On \"Releasing\" they reach a natural endpoint in their love of seesawing between different textures, letting great swells of elegance swoon into gigantic sunbursts of sound and then back into much smaller terrain. Those parts of Ancient Future are where it feels like Sakamoto and Willits are toying with us, trying to manipulate our emotions by constantly leaving the listener dangling in the unexpected for a few tantalizing seconds. On the aptly titled \"Completion\" they achieve their most harmonious manifestation of that tendency, with the two players edging toward songcraft and away from the tonefloat that makes up much of this album. The fact that they don't quite get there, leaving \"Completion\" untethered in a place that's neither entirely immersed in drift or something more concrete, further heightens the sense of restlessness that gives Ancient Future its curiously alluring backbone. This album peaks when it finds room to tilt at larger topics and tinier ones within a few short seconds of one another. By never fully bedding down in one place it further emphasizes the sense of journey that is fundamental to the human experience, of floundering to find the most logical path to get to where you want to go and having to take an unfathomably circuitous route to even get near it.  "}