{"label":" Goner","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18083/homepage_large.76a66568.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Lost Sounds","title":"Lost Lost: Demos, Sounds, Alternate Takes & Unused Songs 1999-2004","text":" Let me tell you about the time I almost made Jay Reatard kick my ass. This was in 2000, back in Memphis. The Glands were playing a show at a small club ominously named the Last Place on Earth, and Reatard's band, the Final Solutions, had been added as a lastminute opener. It was not a good match: Where the Glands played studious southern indie rock, heavy on ambience and melody, the Final Solutions were loud, snotty, abrasive, and confrontational. They took the stage drunk and dressed in police uniforms. Reatard played drums. (Well, he sat behind the drumkit, but he did more arguing with his bandmates than time keeping.) At one point, he whipped out his dick and pissed all over his snare, while the rest of the band flailed around the small stage, knocking over the Glands' equipment and intentionally alienating the small audience. At the time Memphis rarely got any good bands coming through, so I was pissed that a couple of locals would ruin an opportunity to see a nonlocal group. Besides it wasn't like the Glands were the Vines: Despite a breakthrough album, they remained obscure and cultish. But even after the Final Solutions' last song, the nightmare was far from over. Reatard planted himself in the audience right in front of me and my wife, in fact and heckled the Glands throughout their set. \"Piss on your drums!\" he shouted more than once. \"It's been done before,\" was their deadpan response. Shitfaced, Reatard wobbled and stumbled into people, elbowing my wife drunkenly. Right about the time I was getting sick and tired of it, right about the time when I was ready to give him one big push from behind and watch him hit the concrete floor, right when I was ready to kick him while he was down, his friends finally led him away. The show was ruined, but true violence had been averted. Such is the dark side of Reatard's talent, which contained both creative and destructive impulses. A member of several local bands the Solutions, the Reatards, Terror Visions, Lost Sounds he sent energy out in every direction, some of it good and some of it bad. At the time, I thought ruination was his endgame, but with some perspective, I see that he was trying to tear down the scene in order to build it back up. At his most publically belligerent, he made some of the city's most exciting music, and it's unfortunate that it took his tragic death for his earliest bands to reach a larger audience, to be considered as something more than local music. Of course, the Final Solutions were stunt rock, programmed to piss people off, but Reatard's other outfits proved much more durable, compelling, even exciting more than a decade later. The Reatards rewrote Memphis pop history R&B, early rock, Elvis, 1960s frat rock, early90s lofi into snotty, ahistorical punk whose selfloathing streak seemed to speak for a city convinced its best shit was in the past. Lost Sounds, on the other hand, sounded like nothing local: On a handful of releases in the early 2000s, the group Reatard, Alicja Trout, and Rich Crook, with a revolving door of guest musicians mastered a stabby sort of punk/new wave hybrid, full of sharp guitars, inhuman synths, and accusatory vocals. Last year Fat Possum collected their best material on Blac Static, an essential entry into Reatard's catalog: It's some of the bleakest, more relentlessly dark, most nihilistic music he ever made. Lost Lost, a new comp released by Memphis label Goner Records, makes a fine complement: It's a collection of rarities for a band that really didn't have many nonrarities. Even rarer, it's the kind of oddsandsods collection you might actually want to listen to as much as the albums. Songs like \"A Foreign Play\", \"No Count\", and \"Total Destruction\" rival the best material on Blac Static, even if the noisy betweensong interludes prove distracting. Lost Lost gives the impression of a new band struggling to capture inspiration on tape to secure a sound, an identity, a mission. If they sounded almost cocksure on their albums, behind the scenes they had their hands everywhere, grabbing at various genres and suturing them together hastily and sometimes violently. They cover the Crystals' \"Frankenstein Twist\" as a rattily streamlined surf jam, led by Trout's sulfuricacid vocals. Ratcheted to a kaleidoscopic keyboad riff, the tooshort \"No Count\" is a fairly straight Nuggets rewrite but may be Reatard's finest moment here: \"Well, I'm a retard, baby, and my head don't work right,\" he sings with a mix of dejection and defiance. Perhaps the single most defining aspect of Lost Sounds wasn't Reatard's scabrous guitar, but Trout's vintage synths. In the late 1990s, she was fresh out of the sadly shortlived group the Clears, who performed whimsical pop songs in feather boas and full Bowie makeup. If that group sounded joyously deviant with its cheerleader choruses and meltedicecream keyboards, Lost Sounds deployed those same instruments toward something dark, nervous, feverbrained. That's nowhere more apparent than on the sixminute anthem \"Total Destruction\", which begins with a Clash stomp before morphing into what sounds like a giallo soundtrack, like they're eating Argento midmurder. There's fake blood all over the place. Trout's keyboards allow the band to attack and feint effortlessly as the song unfolds to reveal new layers of apocalyptic dread. People may come to Lost Sounds to hear Reatard, but I'm guessing they'll stick around for Trout, who currently plays in MouseRocket and the River City Tanlines. Reatard is more of a sideman than a frontman here. Trout is the star, thanks to performances on \"Look at Me\" and \"No One Killer\" that mix punk aggression and classicrock melodicism. It's her delivery of the chorus \"Ya ya ya ya ya! Total destruction!\" that puts \"Total Destruction\" over and justifies its length. By contrast, she adds gravity and vulnerability to the early version of \"No Genetic Engineer\". Still, despite her strong presence, Lost Sounds never come across as a solo project. The trio was small enough and close enough that it pretty much had to be democratic: By nature of its lineup, every instrument played a prominent role in every song. The personal pushandpull between the band members (Reatard and Trout were on again/off again dating during this period) created a musical friction that constantly redefined what the band could be from one song to the next, leaving them unsettled and musically adrift. For some bands that might suggest unfulfilled potential, but in this case it was Lost Sounds' potential, a constant cycle of creation and destruction and creation. "}