{"label":" Full Time Hobby","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18093/homepage_large.2ff3d4e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Laura Snapes","artist":"Seams","title":"Tourist/Sleeper","text":" Going to Berlin to record an album is musician code for \"I'm gonna forget everything I ever knew and set my freak flag frei.\" On this collection of two EPs, Hampshireborn electronic musician Seams (real name James Welch) compiles the previously released Tourist, made over a Berlin summer, and Sleeper, a new set that emanated from Welch on his downhearted return to England. Logic should dictate which of the two would be more unhinged and experimental; logic does not apply to Berlin records. Tourist is light and charmed, full of field recordings of street instruments and celebratory chatter that you wouldn't place in the German capital if pushed to guess where they were recorded. Opener \"Hung Markets\" feels like it was captured in the busy kitchen garden of a house in the Japanese countryside, sounding impressionistic and softly sprinkled rather than hard hewn, as casual as the chime of a translucent beaded curtain in a doorway. The bass inhales rather than pounds, and the sparkle of the various textures strongly evokes Everything Ecstaticera Four Tet. Captured djembe drums, bongos, and the rhythmic chop of monotone chimes chatter through the other three songs on the EP, a gentle waterslide of bedroom electronics and a krautrock heartbeat that seems to fall halfway between Dominik Eulberg's quieter moments and the rush of Warm Digits' 2011 debut album. Each song beats under a hum of haze or ice that feels less like nostalgia, and more like a defense mechanism for their creator; a cloud purposefully placed between him and his desired surroundings to remind him that this bounty will pass, so don't get too attached. While the general worldliness of this EP could be construed as a lack of focus, its gentle sense of wonder construes Welch's mindset at being in Berlin; eyes and ears open, transmitting his awe at his surroundings rather than trying to emulate the sounds that drew him to what's arguably the global capital of techno. Curiously, those are the sounds that manifest in the record he made in his old bedroom; if we're getting psychological about it, it's easy to see them as a projection of desire regarding where Welch would rather be spending his days. The border between Tourist and Sleeper is as pronounced as the one that the former's city of origin once knew. The organic softness vanishes, in its place a muted, clipped darkness, a slippery male vocal winding back and forth in a locked cage that constitutes a torturous form of claustrophobia; being locked in, but able to see out, Tantalusstyle. The titles of the other three songs here are telling: \"Potential\", \"Punch\", \"The Long Wait\". \"Potential\" bristles and jars before being unzipped to reveal a bed of electrified cilia, a prickly cactus tendril party that progressively gets more bodily. Welch has a tendency to repeat motifs that aren't wildly exciting through the EP, but \"Punch\" eventually reaches an exhilarating upward mechanical cycle, like Factory Floor's \"Lying\" repurposed as workout music, the odd phrase adorned with a glistening coating as a reward for your exertions. (The fifth time in a row I listened to it, I realized I'd been grinding my teeth for 20 minutes solid.) \"The Long Wait\" is intense in a different fashion, down to the sirenlike swathe that blasts through the song's final half. It's desperate and dramatic, and works like a cliffhanger to the EP, building up all this tension only to leave it unresolved come the end. That there's the potential to extrapolate this much about James Welch's personal psychogeography from these two EPs might imply that his musical language is a tad literal at this stage, but there's more than enough potential in this compelling, absorbing collection to suggest that he'll one day cultivate the kind of mystery that's truly transporting. "}