{"label":" Hear Music / Concord","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18103/homepage_large.6abf690f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rachael Maddux","artist":"Various","title":"Just Tell Me That You Want Me: Tribute to Fleetwood Mac","text":" An eponymous record is the kind of thing most bands get just one shot at. Fleetwood Mac had two. The band's selftitled 1968 debut was the product of what was, at that time, a Londonbased bluesrock fourpiece fronted by guitarist/vocalist Peter Green; the second came out nine albums later, in 1975, and solidified their iconic lineup. Up until then, the group had cycled through members, gradually transforming into a more stable poprock unit. Christine McVie joined in 1970, and a few years later, they landed in Southern California where they hooked up with Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks, folding in the meticulous pop theatrics and smoky confessionals that would make for three of the band's bestloved albums Fleetwood Mac, Rumours, and Tusk which tend to overshadow what came before. So if you're noted music supervisor Randall Poster and you're looking to pay tribute to a major rock'n'roll band for a Starbuckssold coversongs compilation, there are much less slippery subjects than Fleetwood Mac. Just Tell Me That You Want Me aims to span Fleetwood Mac's whole existence not just the culturally ambient early Buckingham/Nicks stuff but also the murky hinterlands of the band's 17album catalog. Given that scope, it's a mission that, when limited to just 17 tracks, is all but destined to fail.  Granted, Poster is one of the best in his field: He's been behind all of Wes Anderson's soundtracks, as well as Todd Haynes' I'm Not There, for which he wrangled three dozen artists' to take on the Bob Dylan songs over two discs. His Rave On Buddy Holly homage (released last year, also via Starbucks' Hear Music label) was serviceable, but drew from a catalog curtailed long ago. But Fleetwood Mac's songs are already so fully formed not just intricatelywrought as studio productions but, as with many of the selections presented here, fully ground into the collective mind of its target audience. Covers are tricky things; there's not so much a thin line between stenography and blasphemy as a wild rocky gulf of bemusement and horror and inexplicable pleasure.  The record's first few tracks proceed with an admirable sense of reverence. There's no discernible order to the sequencing, but the first is also the oldest Mac song present: \"Albatross\", an instrumental that was a hit for the band's original incarnation, is rendered huge and gasping by the Lee Ranaldo Band and J Mascis. Antony's faithfully elegiac take on \"Landslide\" comes next, almost cruelly; it would have been a shame to bury it at the end, but it just seems unfair to the artists tasked with following it. Lykke Li's \"Silver Springs\", a few tracks later, is the only other cut that competes; swathed in reverb almost thicker than the song's own emotional chainmail, the track slowly builds up around her harmonies and menacing tambourines and a generally crushing fuzz but she stays so calm, as if she herself is summoning up the storm that's enveloping her. She retains much of Nicks' tornup, wornout sadness, but the original seems to be a million miles from her mind unlike \"Gold Dust Woman\", which follows next, on which Beck and his wiry guitar steer Karen Elson run through a bythebook Nicks homage. The back half of the album is loaded with electronic material, which isn't a bad idea in theory, though none of it is particularly effective. In a reworking of \"Straight Back\", from Mirage, Washed Out blows out the original's discoflocked production, burying the vocals in shimmery wafts of synths and polyester beats; MGMT's flip take on \"Future Games\" smothers the song in layers of gunky robovocals and stuttering digital blurts. With the exception of the Kills' menacing rendition of \"Dreams\", the second act seems designed as background music for suburban teen mall shoppers. Then there's the unfortunate mismatches: The New Pornographers did just about what you'd expect to the jaunty \"Think About Me\", though it's hard not to yearn for what they could have done with \"Tusk\". That track was given instead to DFA Records' Crystal Ark, who replace the glorious bombast of the USC Trojan Marching band with drum machine whumps and skittery synth splurts. Among other mismatches, St. Vincent's Annie Clark is buried in the grinding murk of Craig Wedren's \"Sister of the Moon\" try not to think about how much she'd have killed \"Gold Dust Woman\" if left to her own devices. Some of these tracks work only so long as you can push all memory of the originals from your mind. If I'd somehow never heard the original cut of \"Rhiannon\", I might find Best Coast's version sufficiently charming; knowing better, though, it leaves me in kind of a spluttering, stunned rage, like knocking back a whiskey shot before realizing it's apple juice. Bethany Cosentino does away not just with with Buckingham's witchy riff and Nicks's peaty vocals, but the song's crucial minor key altogether, subbing in a bouncy piano line and tweaking the end of each vocal line with a sweet curlicue, like the little swirl on the top of your Dairy Queen softserve. And what's true for her version is true for the collection as a whole. The original is a seduction; this is foodcourt flirtation.  The fact that the collection is a bit of a mess is a shame, but also a tribute to the band in its own way. I think of that line from \"Storms\", rendered here as a lovely, creaky lament by Bonnie 'Prince' Billy and Matt Sweeney, which rings true as ever: \"Never have I been a blue calm sea/ I have always been a storm.\" "}