{"label":" Night People","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18098/homepage_large.e7fea467.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"Blanche Blanche Blanche","title":"Wink With Both Eyes","text":" What planet are Blanche Blanche Blanche really from? It's a reasonable question to pose at the Brattleboro, Vt., duo of Zach Phillips and Sarah Smith, who on Wink With Both Eyes have produced one of the year's most thoroughly aliensounding pop albums. It takes four tracks at most to see that; before listening, though, it's worth asking why a band would call itself Blanche Blanche Blanche in the first place. There's something about the linguistic gesture that's relentless, slightly humorous, and exceedingly curious. It's also a notsosubtle introduction to the fact that Blanche Blanche Blanche very much like to play with words. The 16track, fully analog Wink With Both Eyes teems with synthpop eccentricities. The songs average just over twominutes, but each is compositionally ambitious, packing peculiar and unexpected shifts in time signature. They end with startling abruptness more often than not; random bits of outofnowhere cosmic synths or grainy, antique piano notes roll in from leftfield. This is one of Blanche's defining characteristics, second only to Smith's monotone, offpitch singspeak tone, which delivers a strange and often nonsensical narrative stream. Lyrics of various tempo are what push the record forward, from whispered and staccato singing styles to comical callandresponse conversations. Smith and Phillips' words, and their approach to them, render the album cartoonish rather than cinematic, which, it turns out, is especially fun, because Blanche Blanche Blanche know how to do humor without turning their music into a joke. Theatricality is central to Wink, and at times it feels more like listening in on actors in a surreal film than musicians. They didn't use any samplers during the making of the record, which makes the inclusion of audio clips that resemble samples even more amusing. The track \"Body Talk\" is prefaced by what sounds like a clip from a horror movie \"What are these twins doing?!\" and closes with another \"sample\" that could be a rip from a television news report. The world of Blanche Blanche Blanche is mapped by minimal synthwork with an early1970s feel, recorded without computers or sequencers, using a Yamaha MT8X eighttrack, the same model Ariel Pink used to record the first Haunted Graffiti album in the late 1990s. On the opener \"Results\" the seemingly skeletal instrumentation comes from various directions to bleep, flutter, shush, ping, and bubble, all with an air of subtlety. The singing fluctuates between drawnout singsong and a deep, deadpan mutter, before the synths trail off; they're replaced briefly by brightly tuned guitar plucks, over which the mantra \"no, it's never too late\" is repeated 13 times. This is an exceptionally dynamic song, and it all takes place within one minute and 35 seconds. And that's not to mention that the duo's lyrics are a variation on words pulled from an academic handout Phillips received at a conference on sex offender behavioral research, which he attended while working on a cultural anthropology thesis. The record's definitive moment comes after the uptempo and relatively bright track \"Runny Day\", which conjures the rhythmic feel of running in place or skipping rope, and offers one of the collection's most thematically resonant lines: \"Did you hear the good news/ The good lie/ When you're rich/ You can die.\" The song centers on the idea of movement and the vastness of time, which comes out towards the end, when the title is simply articulated over and over, atop a repetitious synth ping, for 25 strangely urgent seconds only to drop out, from nowhere, and fall into the title track's quick, anxious, and gray organ washes. \"Wink With Both Eyes\" itself is the record's best track. Though slightly nonsensical, the song deals with daily preoccupation, the idea that blinking through life could lead to failure. Smith describes a dying friend: \"She reached out one more time/ No rhyme could save her life so have mine,\" deepening the pitch and tonality of her voice as the words grow dire. Throughout the track her distracted vocal gestures move from rocketspeed choruses to quick whispers, anxious deadpan, singsong lines, and a waltz, where the lyrics are quite sad: \"The game is tie/ The players/ They all die,\" and, \"Dying girl/ I'm eternally bummed.\" At a point it's obvious she's shutting her eyes to her own humanity. But laughs abound elsewhere. \"With or Without You\" opens with performative melancholy, as Smith sings, \"I always wanted to be the clown/ People'd come and they'd laugh a while/ Standing ovation so loud/ It didn't make a sound.\" Later the song is flecked by a perpetual, collectively shouted hook \"With or without youuu!\" as if culled from a group karaoke session. The duo sounds like it's imitating singers whose vocal capabilities are far greater than its own. Meanwhile, \"Jason's List\" is a twisted, suspenseful track where Smith repeats, \"Die Jason die, die Jason die,\" describing the childhood of a deranged young boy. Similarly, on \"The River\", she sings: \"Thank you, you've been a lot of help/ Go back, go to hell.\" And toward the end of the record, \"She's Adopted\" is some nextdimension reincarnation of a romantic 1980s adultcontemporary song, with roaring guitar solos that sound extraordinarily funny within the context of a compressed, analog pop song. Blanche Blanche Blanche's nonlinear approach reminds me most of how Brian Eno has described his creative process: visually mapping fastslow rhythms on graph paper, or setting unlikely studio parameters for the sake of unexpected results. With a technically flat sound, but no fuzz or hiss, the entirety of Wink With Both Eyes feels like poetic discombobulation,  considered and unmistakable ambition. And that's why it seems rather unsurprising that Wink is one of five records Phillips and Smith have already released in 2012. The record certainly has its flaws its length, for example but in all likelihood those will only increase the appeal of Blanche to early fans of pop eccentrics like Ariel Pink and John Maus. While their profiles continue to grow, we're lucky to have groups like Blanche Blanche Blanche, taking the reins and going deep to explore the parameters of electronic pop at its most legitimately peculiar. "}