{"label":" Decon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18100/homepage_large.5a7cd10e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Russian Roulette","text":" The Alchemist has had a storied, unique path in hiphop history. He came up under Cypress Hill producer DJ Muggs before producing for late1990s West Coast backpacker heroes Dilated Peoples. He was soon introduced to Mobb Deep and found his beats in the hands of a diverse array of East Coast street rappers, from Nas to CNN to Jadakiss. More recently, he's worked with a range of midtier rap heroes, from Curren$y to Action Bronson to Freddie Gibbs, and is a reliably creative producer, even if his style of production has shifted away from the hiphop mainstream. He has also previously released two solo albums (in addition to an EP and several mixtapes), which highlighted an earnest but awkward rapping persona and more than a few standout tracks. But Russian Roulette takes him in a new direction. It's a producer's album, and that means it predicts the creeping conservatism of an artist who has decided that creating songs is less interesting than creating sonic collages. The basic structure is a familiar one for those who've found themselves drawn into the insular world of producerdriven hiphop records by Madlib, MF Doom, and Prince Paul. It's a sequence of instrumentals, each averaging around a minute and a half in length, spliced together with lines of dialogue from records or films taken out of context as if to hint at an artistic or personal philosophy that, we presume, the artist shares. Or perhaps he just thinks they're funny. It depends on how seriously you intend to take him. If you don't take his art particularly seriously, though, it might be a difficult record to enjoy. Sequence is important; promos of the record were sent out as singletrack mixes, rather than divided into songs. The message was clear: Much like a DJ mix, there is a method to his madness, a way the artist intends his listeners or at least, critics to experience his art. Unlike a dance mix, though, there isn't a dancefloor to please, nor is there an overarching pressure to push toward or against populist tastes; the only underlying logic is what Alchemist wants us to hear. As a result, the album takes a meandering path through a museum of different eras and influences and sonic timbres all of which, rapping aside, seem to originate in the 1970s or 80s. A series of rappers does appear on the tape, but it bears little resemblance to the producer's previous two LPs. Alchemist does tend to work with rappers with distinctive rap styles, if not always personalities, which helps keep things buoyant. But too often the rapping on Russian Roulette feels like just another instrumental texture, lacking in purposefulness. More than a few of the rappers, from longtime Alchemist acquaintance Evidence to newcomer Chuuwee, have lyrical approaches that border on filler. Some artists stand apart: MidaZ's flow on \"Don Seymour's Theme\" seems to echo Big Pun's syllable density with an avalanche of spitstained rapping. Danny Brown, per usual, explodes from the track with a visceral shoutflow. Fashawn might have an overly familiar vocal style, but he also has a wellconstructed verse (\"This is cloud rap off a loud pack/ Committing foul acts with a wild batch...\"). Many of the rappers on the tape seem more interested in sloppily packing together disconnected images and ideas, like Ghostface without the imagination or execution; Boldy James' narcotic delivery stands apart simply for taking his time and completing his thoughts in a straightforward manner. Final kudos go to Big Twin, whose gravelly delivery is almost always a welcome texture on an Alchemist tape, and Mr. Muthafuckin' eXquire, whose play on a classic Biggie verse is surreal in a goofily entertaining way. The level on which Russian Roulette works best is experienced in a stoner's sounddesignobsessed bubble, where each crackle of a record and particular melodic line of a funk, fusion, soundtrack, or novelty sample seems to contain a cavernous importance simply for displacing air with sound. In that way, even the weaker verses seem to have purpose their words can't convey, and many times Alchemist's interest in graphitetextured rappers gives the LP a certain consistency. Rather than falling for the art of songcraft, Alchemist is primarily interested in the pure beauty of those particular seconds of a track that stand out, that one moment, looped to eternity. It's difficult to imagine that everyone will get the same pleasure he does out of each sample. Let's put his odds at one in six. "}