{"label":" Dämmerung Arts","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18105/homepage_large.b4e938be.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Agalloch","title":"Faustian Echoes EP","text":" For most bands, writing and recording a 21minute track that constitutes an entire EP would mean exploring and fostering new elements of their sound. From transitions and dynamics to concepts and stamina, such a long expanse makes different demands than several three or fourminute songs, even if they're strung together into a much longer record. A tune that becomes a trek must be cohesive but not complacent, or built on a small set of ideas that can stay compelling without petrifying into boredom. But Portland's Agalloch aren't strangers to the epic or ambitious. For the last decade, they've crafted album after album of seamless grandiosity, surrounding hardedged blackmetal bursts with meditative rests and triumphant rises. Though its 65 minutes came split across six tracks, the band's last release, 2010's glorious Marrow of the Spirit, was an album in the most unified sense, where each track seemed to bleed into the next and in which repeated sounds and thoughts blotted the entire experience. While \"Faustian Echoes\", the lone monstrosity on the new EP of the same name, is in fact the longest song Agalloch have ever released, neither its flow nor its shape are foreign to the band's longtime listeners. Based upon Goethe's tale of the mythical scholar who trades his religious servitude for the possibility of transcendence and impossible knowledge, Faustian Echoes keys upon a series of dramatic readings from the text and excerpts occasionally howled by frontman John Haughm. The band lurches in and swells slowly, a theatric exchange between Faust and his literary tempter, Mephistopheles, cutting over a din of electronics and electric guitar. Within the first eight minutes, there is, in sequence, a systemsgo blitz, a downtempo shift, a forlorn drift, a determined build, and a hornsup solo that goads Agalloch back into another blackened onslaught. That's the gist of Faustian Echoes, which ebbs and cascades in prototypical Agalloch fashion; indeed, aside from the lack of track breaks and the addition of tawdry readings, this EP feels only like an addition to the band's catalog, not at all an extension of it. But Faustian Echoes isn't disappointing because it sounds like Agalloch, even if this does seem like something of a lost opportunity for the band to stretch bounds beyond relative track lengths. Instead, it's a letdown because the fastidiousness that's historically gone into Agalloch albums where each layer has its own space, and each musical moment or phrase seems completely developed and considered as part of a comprehensive whole is strangely absent. Sure, the heaviest, fastest moments are still compelling, as this remains an unfailingly good quartet captured by ace producer Billy Anderson. But it's hard not to get lost within the instrumental spans or, worse yet, simply to give up on them. The doomy, downtempo portion that separates the track's first part from its second is laughably rote, with the guitars grinding over cavernous thuds panned across the channels; it's understandable to expect something more interesting from a band with such a pedigree of intricacy. The same goes for the track's more tranquil impasses, which seem like slapdash ellipses that serve only to hinder Agalloch's momentum.  If, as a few others have posited, Faustian Echoes is a push back toward black metal for Agalloch after Marrow of the Spirit's wellconsidered grace, it seems to me less like a conscious move and more like the symptom of a few flawed parts. After all, writing your longest piece to date in an attempt to return to your basics seems like a wrongheaded plan. No, the stumbling block doesn't seem to be the length or nostalgia for the rudiments; Agalloch have mastered more impressive tracts. It's just that the pieces that should link the length together don't. "}