{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18102/homepage_large.7d46056b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"WHY?","title":"Sod in the Seed","text":" \"Let's review some recent facts.\" Those are the words Yoni Wolf uses to break a threeyear silence (following the release of 2009's Eskimo Snow), and silence is certainly out of character for WHY?. Wolf's always erred on the side of oversharing, and the rapid succession of his band's two best LPs (2008's Alopecia and Eskimo Snow) suggested that a solidified lineup had inspired a period of artistic fertility. Yet while Sod in the Seed EP picks up where WHY? left off, it sounds like a regression rather than a rightful claim to what's theirs. For the first time, a band that always follows its wildly erratic muse sounds the way they think you want them to. This much is clear from the overall sonic character of Sod, which ties up the loose ends from Eskimo Snow, a musically sedate but artistically unstable record. Wolf's voice has always been incapable of sounding traditionally \"pretty,\" but it caused an interesting friction as the band incorporated acoustic guitars, piano, and postrock percussion. Most of this sixtrack EP recalls the indie hiphop hybrids of Alopecia's \"Fatalist Palmistry\", \"A Sky For Shoeing Horses Under\", and \"Good Friday\" if not hits, then at least that record's mostquoted songs. The title track here is every bit as maddeningly sticky as \"Palmistry\", But whereas the latter was a cathartic reprieve amidst Alopecia's heft, everything comes too easy on \"Sod in the Seed\", its singsong hooks and selfsatisfied pop culture references instantly triggering repressed memories of postBeck alternarappers like Bran Van 3000 and Citizen King. More disheartening is that Wolf's lyrics are typically awkward, but in a rare way that doesn't appear to be intentional. He sighs, \"I'll never shirk this firstworld curse/ A steady hurt/ And a sturdy purse,\" which is essentially the underlying moral of almost every WHY? song the sort of incurable psychosexual drama that tends to afflict people whose immediate needs are met, allowing them the ability to feel crazy and guilty. We often get caught up in pointless arguments as to whether or not they're \"real\" problems or worth documenting, but it's ultimately a moot point since Wolf forfeits any sort of insight or resonance by playing so close to type. He's not even picking at lowhanging fruit so much as scooping up rotten apples \"hybrid cars,\" MacBooks, Critical Mass, orthodox Jews, expensive publicists, poorly compensated bloggers. Obviously, there's the tacit acknowledgment that Wolf uses #stuffwhitepeoplelike as a means of mocking himself, but on Alopecia, namedropping Whole Foods and SMS texts served as a means to an emotionally expressive end. The dispiriting devolution from keen, resonant observation to some kind of verbal prop comedy inevitably brings to mind Travistan; not a comparison made for kicks. Despite the sturdy look of the tracklist, the EP clocks in at around 15 minutes, about a third of which is taken up by \"Sod in the Seed\", which is also the only one that will reappear on their upcoming fulllength Mumps, etc. But while Wolf has previously been at his best going into as uncomfortable detail as possible, strangely enough, Sod actually benefits from the sketchlike character of its remaining songs. At first, the brevity of \"Probable Cause\" grates in subject matter and length, it's basically a hardcore punk song or hiphop skit. Yet there's a compact emotional arc in Wolf's pouring his heart out to a cop at a DUI stop who then lets him go on his way after a backhanded insult. While \"For Someone\" is definitely disjointed musically, its merger of Asian drums and chimes is as ornate and complicated as the trapdoor contraption described in its lyrics, the sound of WHY? trying something new and making use of its unconventional and polyrhythmic live setup. Later, \"Twenty Seven\" pulls a typical Wolf feint, describing in pitchblack detail what he's thinking so that you'll think, \"oh, well at least he's not doing that,\" in this case, plucking feathers from a bird like a daffodil's petals and making a birthday present out of its bones. Immediately after, \"Shag Carpet\" is another one of Wolf's lyrical feints, the confessionascomeon and, as with \"Sod in the Seed\", it distills Wolf's dating profile into one line: \"But heed this honey, even if I beg for relations/ You should try to only keep me as a distant acquaintance/ Yeah, but I'm too persistant for that to work and what's worse/ Is when you finally fall asleep I'm gonna go through your purse.\" It's one hell of a signoff and while some might consider the Zooey Deschanel namedrop to be the most onthenose here, it's warranted by the juxtaposition with \"my exgirlfriend\" in making a grim joke about the two most attractive women in a certain kind of man's life.  But to get there, you have to scythe through so many overripe zingers about buying parkas at Marshalls, wearing togas to Kroger, and other admissions that read like \"Good Friday\" ran through a thesaurus. The problem with \"Shag Carpet\" and the Sod in the Seed EP as a whole isn't the content of Wolf's neuroses, nor is it the use of unfettered honesty in the hopes that someone might relate and both parties feel a bit less crazy. It's more that there actually is a lowlevel insanity in rehashing so many of WHY?'s musical and lyrical themes, that of doing the same thing again and expecting a different result. "}