{"label":" Air Texture","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18109/homepage_large.e82d2071.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Various","title":"Air Texture Vol. II","text":" For a long time,  Kompakt's annual Pop Ambient compilation was the definitive place to take the pulse of contemporary electronic ambient music. The 12yearold series is surely a huge influence on the most active ambient artists today. Historically, ambient music has gotten a lot of attention only when cloaked in familiar garb the flowing, songlike melodies of protoambient composer Erik Satie, the richly tonal piano intervals of Brian Eno's iconic Music For Airports, or the house beats of the Orb. While the vanishing point of ambient purity remains an obscure concern, the integration of musical structures and open forms has become so routine that it really needs no modifier: It's all just ambient now. In the past few years, new challengers to the Pop Ambient throne have brought a curatorial freshness to the format, avoiding narrow branding to argue for the alloyed nature of the music. They eschew the term \"ambient\" to make sweeping claims upon a whole range of slowmoving electroacoustic styles. The music is uniformly concerned with drawing fractured melodies and finely mercurial timbres into dreamlike unities, but the gestures stem from idioms as diverse as krautrock, dub, IDM, techno, shoegaze, film scores, field recordings, chamber music, and classical postminimalism. To loosely draw a line around this tumult, Ghostly International contrived the broad, mysterious title SMM: Context. The Agriculture Records cofounder James Healy makes similarly evocative claims with his Air Texture imprint, drawing attention to how all of this music makes invisible forces palpable. Air Texture Vol. I was coselected by reverbshaman bvdub and the skilled ambient classicist Andrew Thomas. The bullpen was full of artists associated with key labels such as Kompakt, Kranky, Type, and Touch. Two of those artists, Vancouver's Loscil and Seattle's Rafael Anton Irisarri, were called up to each select a disc of Air Texture Vol. II. Loscil's own music favors dark hues and emotionally unreadable impressions of submerged movement. He offers a compilation highlight in \"Else\", where watery drones scoured with ringing textures mount into a pulmonary rhythm, thanks to a gouged dynamic range and a lone bass drum. Irisarri cultivates a reliable air of preoccupied melancholy via cavernous piano etudes, as demonstrated by his striking contribution, where a curt theme flashes between octaves over a chasm of moaning strings and shadowy resonance. This juxtaposition of perspectives on ambient music gives Vol. II the same variety and vitality as its predecessor. Loscil's disc opens in ravishing but predictable fashion with \"At a Loss\" by Brian McBride. If you've ever heard a single elongated note of Stars of the Lid, you can imagine the romantic strings paired with a piano theme's subdued climax. The disc swiftly builds momentum after this pacesetting start the abstract sound design of Chris Herbert's \"Naimina\", the almost perversely subtle arc of Rob Bridgett's \"Field 3\", and \"Dirge for the Canon\", where a brilliant organ gradually erupts in a fountain of sparks. Irisarri's disc is easy to link to his sonic style. His fondness for saturated tonality is evident on Marcus Fjellström's \"The Eroding\", where a dusty record plays trailing woodwinds, as well as Slowdive drummer Simon Scott's \"Modena\", where delayedattack drones lurch. Irisarri's postminimalism is echoed in an austere Library Tapes selection, where a piano flickering with tremolo sways between two chords, and again in the hovering wisps of Kyle Bobby Dunn, whose compositions feel like simple thoughts forming exceedingly slowly. The dense prismatic scream of Room40 proprietor Lawrence English's \"Cooperative Drift\" and one of bvdub's darkly coruscating force fields bring this disc to an arresting conclusion. As a whole, the collection is an impressive assortment of techniques, lineages, and emotional shadings that converge inside what we call ambient music. "}