{"label":" Software","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18107/homepage_large.2eb24a8b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Blanck Mass","title":"White Math / Polymorph","text":" Back in 2008, Fuck Buttons played a show opening for Caribou at Brooklyn's Music Hall of Williamsburg. It was early in their career, and the support slot was early in the evening, causing only a faithful few to witness the event. Anyone close to the stage at the beginning of the show was nervously pinned to the back wall by the end of it, so severe were the waves of noise surging across the mostly empty room. At times it felt like they were filling the space with something tangible, adding a touch of thickness to the air that buttressed up against you. My Bloody Valentine pull off a similar trick during the breakdown section of \"You Made Me Realise\", where it feels like the atmosphere is gradually decaying around you in direct correlation to the increase in intensity. It's no wonder that Benjamin John Power, one half of Fuck Buttons, has built a haven of sorts from his central band, pushing his Blanck Mass project into a similarly immeasurable glut of space while dialing down the reliance on punishing volume.  The Blanck Mass album of last year took a circuitous journey into contemplation, where notes and figures looped in perpetuity, just holding back from driving Power's audience into a soporific stupor. In a sense, it wasn't so different from his work as part of Fuck Buttons, with both projects requiring a keen understanding of exactly how to lull the listener into a subtle state of hypnosis without ever breaking the spell. It's a tough act to pull off anyone working primarily in repetition is always in danger of falling prey to their own indulgence, but Power has proven to be a skilled and deeply intuitive editor. This twotrack 12\" for the everexpanding Mexican Summer is a further refinement of everything that has come before, with another colossal sweep of space providing home to a series of motifs that ebb and flow over a collected 21minute runtime.  Here, Power has taken the Blanck Mass sound and carved shards of light into it. There's nothing that resembles the mesh of agrarian textures and shimmering electronics of \"Sub Serious\" from Blanck Mass; nor is there the same kind of untethered drift into beatless splendor of \"What You Know\" and \"Sifted Gold\". Instead, this is a surprise move closer to his work with Fuck Buttons, feeling like a half step back to that band without fully committing to its fondness for abject terror. Both songs act like twins to one another, operating in similar sound worlds and requiring close inspection to determine their individual nuances. It's reminiscent of the Sabres of Paradise circa the \"Smokebelch II\" single, a record made by Fuck Buttons collaborator Andrew Weatherall during a time where it felt like he was enamored with knotting up pop structures with more outthere fare like Cluster, Silver Apples, and King Tubby. Power might balk at the use of \"pop\" to describe this release, but it's certainly his sunniest output to date. But that's only half the story, as both \"White Math\" and \"Polymorph\" bear deepbass undertows that pull them close to the world Geoff Barrow and Ben Salisbury created for their DROKK project earlier this year. The world's synthesizers may groan in agony at hearing use of the \"John Carpenter\" preset once again, but it's difficult to escape that comparison when the intro to \"White Math\" begins and the image of Snake Plissken running down rainy postapocalyptic streets sears into your synapses. Fortunately, Power uses that only as a tool to get to where he's going instead of fixing it as his entire milieu. The ascending synth lines in \"Polymorph\" even sound like a half cousin to Fuck Buttons' euphoric \"Olympians\", and it's in that huge surge of energy that Power so often finds his greatest strength. It's granitelike in feel, but also bursting with opulent, Arcadian splendor, making it feel like he's creating his own strain of technological utopianism. "}