{"label":" Universal Island / PMR","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18114/homepage_large.ed0b398b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Jessie Ware","title":"Devotion","text":" To begin to understand where Jessie Ware is coming from, let's look at her stuck between an acoustic guitarist and an MPC beat pusher in the back of a London taxi. As part of the simple, selfexplanatory \"Black Cab Sessions\" web series, the 27yearold British singer recently took her place in the middle seat and proceeded to offer a nuanced live take on \"Wildest Moments\", a slyly epic ballad from her debut album, Devotion. In such tight quarters, she's not quite sure where to look at her bandmates, outside to the street, or directly into the camera her head on a controlled swivel. She's capable of blasting the back window out with her voice, which consistently strikes blue notes somewhere between Sade and Whitney, but she holds back, wellaware of her unplugged environment. The performance is seriously moving, and yet Ware lets loose a few brief grins and a slight laugh, as if to say, \"All this is quite ridiculous, don't you think?\" And that's Jessie Ware: a devout realist making the most of her popstar dreams and her commitment to both sides of that equation turns Devotion into a uniquely soulful masterclass. If you've halfslept through just one episode of a realitytelevision singing competition over the last decade, you're probably somewhat privy to Ware's trajectory. The onetime theater kid started out as a backup singer before nearly giving up her musical aspirations to be a journalist. But then, thanks to a montageready twist of fate, she ended up singing lead on melodic bass producer SBTRKT's 2010 single \"Nervous\", which led to a solo label deal, which led to Ware being forced to take the spotlight. But oftentimes backup singers are off to the side for a reason, and the hard truth is that's where they will be most productive; there are only so many lead roles in the world of pop. Considering her selfdescribed \"boringly sensible\" outlook and the doubt pinging around her brain (\"I had to get past the idea of, like, 'Who gives a shit about what I'm gonna fucking write a song about?'\"), Ware sounds more like a supporting player on paper. But then you hear her voice, and any and all limits start to fade into the distance. Singing over futuristic electronic tracks like \"Nervous\" and dubstep producer Joker's \"The Vision\", Ware sounded strong, but also somewhat overshadowed by the showy bleeps scurrying around her. Devotion, however, marries her natural gift with throbbing instrumentation that breathes life into every single turn of phrase or sensitive vocal embellishment. The tempos bounce lightly, the drama escalates, the synthladen ambience cascades like so many postcard waterfalls. This is smoldering music, its smoke bewitching enough to make the original fire more or less irrelevant.  The record was largely produced by three men Dave Okumu of UK art rockers the Invisible, Bristol electronic upstart Julio Bashmore, and singersongwriter Kid Harpoon, who cowrote songs on Florence and the Machine's Ceremonials each leaving his distinct mark without distracting from the whole. Okumu's tracks, especially opener \"Devotion\", are dark and dense, hinting at passion's underbelly with each deep bass hit; Bashmore's are more airy and upbeat, primed for classy dancefloors worldwide; Kid Harpoon offers the most festivalready songs big hooks, bigger drums like \"Wildest Moments\". Tying the disparate sounds together are Okumu, who coproduced and played many instruments on nearly every track, and of course Ware herself, who cowrote all but one song. Her voice is a marvel throughout, often gaining power by holding back or briefly teasing its scope while staying faithful to melody over melisma. Her words are in tune with this refinement as they chronicle the inbetweenness of love, dismissing easy pleasures for feelings that are more hardwon, confusing, and frightening.  Take the most classically \"pop\" song here: the weightless \"Sweet Talk\", which modernizes Whitney Houston's late80s effervescence à la Beyoncé's \"Love on Top\". On its face, the track is all endless dimples and mesmerizing lips, but then the verses sink in: \"Don't keep me with the kisses, there's never any there when I need,\" pleads Ware. She knows she's going to fall for the smooth nothings once again, though, and lets the keys try to cover the inevitable regret, which plays out on \"Running\", where Ware starts, \"Your words alone could drive me to a thousand tears.\" The title track, with its foreboding murk, gives whiffs of a seance as Ware asks, \"Ready to love but do you want it enough?/ Can we find a way to bring it back again?\" Given the track's perfectly rendered storm clouds, you get the impression she already knows the answers. The idea of running comes up often on Devotion, and it's clear that Ware isn't interested in the sprints when it comes to love, she's angling for a marathon. And she knows marathons can be really fucking tough.  Talking about her childhood aspirations earlier this year, Ware told me, \"It's so unattainable to be a singer. I'd watch 'Top of the Pops' and think I could never do that. And I didn't look like a pop star compared to the people I used to watch on MTV like J.Lo or Destiny's Child.\" As a middleclass Jewish girl from South London who's closer to 30 than 20, she's still nothing close to a cookiecutter R&B breakout. Her success thus far and its likely continuation thanks to Devotion is a testament to both her talent and budding songwriting skills, as well as the wideopen field that is modern R&B, where a sensitive soul like Frank Ocean can make a starinabox like Chris Brown look about as relevant as a dialup modem. \"I'm just having fun and trying to pretend I'm a pop star,\" said Ware, talking about her highstyle videos. And while embellishment and theatricality is still a coveted and worthwhile pursuit within the pop realm, the beautiful thing is that, in 2012, Jessie Ware doesn't need to pretend more than anyone else. "}