{"label":" Recollection GRM","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18125/homepage_large.73c24ab2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Pierre Schaeffer","title":"Le Trièdre fertile","text":" Novelist, essayist, playwright, antinuclear activist, WWII French resistance fighter, engineer, professor, musicologist, broadcaster, a member of the Spitak earthquake rescue team in Armenia, and the inventor of the decidedly nonmusical musical form known as \"musique concrète,\" French composer Pierre Schaeffer could be called almost anything but a musician. And yet outside of the blues and jazz, Schaeffer's work with radio, tape, and gramophones as well as his \"sampling\" of everyday sounds and then reconfiguring them might be the most crucial musical development of the 20th century. Schaeffer's pioneering work resounds through every strand of modern music in this new century. Imagine purging your iPod of anything featuring a trace of electronically generated tones, mechanized instrumentation, samples and loops, cutups, computer editing, and the like, and see what you have left in your playlists. What Schaeffer (and other crafty Frenchmen quick to realize his achievements, followed seven years on by the BBC Radiophonic Workshop) did was realize sound itself as something musical, regardless of instrument, note, scale, or whatever western music trappings. Alongside the paradigmshoving efforts of composers like Edgar Varèse, John Cage, and Karlheinz Stockhausen, no longer would western music be beholden to melody, harmony, rhythm, meter. In 1951, Schaeffer along with fellow composer and percussionist Pierre Henry founded INAGRM studio (Institut National Audiovisuel, Groupe de Recherches Musicales) in Paris, France, and for decades, experimental music titans like Henry, François Bayle, Iannis Xenakis, Michel Chion, Bernard Parmegiani, and Luc Ferrari pushed electronically composed music to the furthest edges. So when laptop noisemakers like Pita, Christian Fennesz, Russell Haswell, Autechre, Florian Hecker, Jim O'Rourke, and the like blipped up in the 90s, there was a clear lineage back to what seeped from INAGRM. However, simply hearing Schaeffer's groundbreaking work hasn't always been easy. Aside from a 4xCD box/book issued in 1989, not much from Schaeffer or the INAGRM stable has been readily available stateside. So it makes perfect sense that the revitalized Editions Mego imprint pays tribute to those astounding and ludicrously rare compositions with their new vinyl reissue sublabel, Recollection GRM. The label's inaugural reissues of Schaeffer's last composition (and lone purely electronic work) Le Trièdre Fertile and a composition from his student Guy Reibel hint at the back catalog's unplumbed depths, and the promise of some real treasures to come. To be honest, some of Schaeffer's earliest études emanating from the decimated postWWII European landscape in 1948 never quite grabbed me the way that the oeuvres of fellow countrymen like Luc Ferrari, Pierre Henry, or Bernard Parmegiani did, which might just be a matter of originator vs. innovator. (In my mind, no one will ever quite match the playfulness, gorgeous impressionism, and even perversity of Ferrari's greatest works.) But Le Trièdre Fertile suggests that I grossly underestimated Schaeffer's prodigal talents, as Schaeffer's exploration of the limits of frequency, duration, and intensity on modular synthesizer show him still pushing at the frontiers, even while closing in on 70. The blips and bloops of \"Plutôt Dynamique\" that begin the piece soon begin to mutate, bouncing from alien ambience to something more visceral. The nervous tones of \"Plutôt Mélodique\" soon sound like two freight trains passing before transforming again into a buzzing drone and accelerating once more. At times, you can almost feel your ears move in and out of focus with these electronic figures, as if simply hearing these tones causes them to change. Or, listen to \"Strette\" and hear how a synthesized sound grows in menace and velocity as if nearing the listener, increasingly frantic before dissolving into pings, squiggles, and ambient washes. Even the most openeared listener might not be able to immediately trace these abstract pieces directly back to producers like Actress or Clams Casino, but neither would be conceivable without the example set forth by Schaeffer. Guy Reibel was an early student under Schaeffer at INAGRM as well as French composer Olivier Messiaen, collaborating with the former on the 1967 composition Solfège de l'objet sonore. Throughout his discography, Reibel often dealt with the human voice be it mixing choir with magnetic tape for the late60s work À Mille Et Une Voix or recording all of Gyorgy Ligeti's chorale works (cue the monolith scene from 2001 here) in the late 80s but on this reissue, he explores what the liner notes call \"the mathematical idea of the limit.\" What that might mean exactly I'll leave to the listener, though there's an exploration of granular and pulsar synthesis that anticipates what modern computer music composers like Alberto de Campo, Curtis Roads, and Florian Hecker do in their own work some two decades on. Highpitched insect buzzes and a clatter not unlike rummaging in a desk drawer occupy most of the first half of the album, and at times there are sounds that exactly replicate that arid sensation of desert wind blowing sand into your face. Elsewhere, the plucked strings of \"Balancement\" sound like something the Red Krayola did on Coconut Hotel, or what Jim O'Rourke dabbled in early into his career, but it's the brainscrambling 26 minutes of Reibel's \"Franges du Signes\" that's the highlight of these first two reissues. And with a Bernard Paremegiani reissue to come, no doubt many more flummoxing moments lie ahead. "}