{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18130/homepage_large.36c673d4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Young Thug","title":"I Came From Nothing 3","text":" Young Thug's name is so generic that it sounds like an excerpt from a Rev. Calvin Butts speech. It could be a trick of reverse psychology; in contrast to Thug's extraordinarily distinctive style, it seems more a knowing joke, or if he's feeling ambitious, an attempt to epitomize and subvert an archetype. His rap style, too, has this kind of fearlessness; he is obviously and unapologetically a descendent of Lil Wayne at the peak of his experimental phase, where Wayne pushed against the boundaries of a rapper's technical control. At his best, Young Thug embraces that style, but rather than making it a logical endpoint of an artist on the ascent, he uses it as the baseline. It is a given on any Young Thug track that he will be croaking, halfsinging, breaking against graphiteonpaper predictability of traditional rap, and performing with such confidence that calling him the product of his influences feels shortsighted. His latest mixtape, I Came from Nothing 3, is a dense, ambitious attempt to cultivate an entirely new rap style. It is also frequently frustrating, shifting from eyeopeningly original to inconsequential from track to track. Unlike Lil B, to whom he might be immediately compared, Young Thug holds onto some traditional frameworks that could give him more of a potential foothold to transcend a cult fanbase. He still makes inventive pop songs. He sticks to a familiar dope boy mystique. And although Lil Wayne is his obvious forefather, he also springs from a less discussed but incredibly influential style of Atlantabased hiphop. The creative stew of Atlanta's melodic underground, where AutoTune didn't just avert death but spawned new life, perhaps via the influence of ecstasy and the dominance of strip club culture. Artists both well known (Future) and lessknown (Kwony Cash) evolved a style that has often seemed less personadriven and more about songcraft. This is the milieu whence comes Young Thug, who collaborated early with the Rich Kidz (\"100 Dollar Autograph\") and Cash Out, currently with one of the year's biggest rap songs and a regular Young Thug collaborator (\"I Got It\"). What Young Thug brings to the table, then, isn't just a weird, experimental approach to rapping, but presence, persona, mystique, and, potentially, star power. These are often things frowned upon by \"serious\" music fans, imagining themselves as discerning listeners who see through those theatrics, but in rap, where music is so heavily personadriven, it gives an artist dimension. Of course, the other, most important factor for becoming a star is crafting hits, and when he wants to, even while pushing against conservative ideas of good taste, Young Thug can deliver. I Came from Nothing 3 is less interested in these songs, though, relative to the last tape (see: \"Keep in Touch\", \"Curtains\".) Instead, it indulges, heavily, in the bright, brittle synthesizers and continually cheery enthusiasm that often overwhelms. The exception is \"Foreign\", a song with a hypnotic marimba loop and an incredibly memorable hook, a track that should make fantasy summer jam playlists across the country. It also manages to transcend Young Thug's cult status most effectively. Most of the LP seems to push deep into its own universe, to the detriment of those not already convinced of Young Thug's vision, but rewarding those already sold. Tracks like \"Admit It\" and \"I Know Ya\" epitomize the kind of enthusiastic euphoria that is the currency of this strain of the Atlanta underground. Songs like \"Angry Sex\" offer a refreshing twist, giving its subject a kind of jubilant triviality. "}