{"label":" Norman","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18135/homepage_large.f3148fa1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Wishmountain","title":"Tesco","text":" Wishmountain was Matthew Herbert's first alias, the name under which he began using musique concrètestyle sampling of realworld sounds to revitalize the creatively arid preset beats and bass of house and techno. Soon to be reissued, the earliest Wishmountain records made wonky funk out of sampling kitchen implements and consumerist detritus. It was as if a Hollywood sound designer had grown tired of recreating the sound of hooves with coconut shells, and instead put his talents to work as a leftfield beatmaker.  Wishmountain has been more or less mothballed since the turn of the millennium. Meanwhile Herbert has only grown in status as both producer and goto public intellectual in a modern dance scene that's apolitical at best and antiintellectual at worst. Mostly, that means he gives good and contentious interviews, since his politics are mostly (and blessedly) confined to his music's praxis and the framework of promoting each record. At his best, he's even funny with it, in a goofy gallows humor sort of way. The politics of Tesco, the first Wishmountain release in more than a decade, definitely fall on the cheeky side. You might not even take it as an album with a political bent, if you weren't familiar with Herbert's basic stance. And you're certainly able to enjoy the album without a shred of background info on how it was made or what it was made out of. That said, Tesco was purportedly crafted entirely from samples made by manipulating the staple sellers at Tesco, a lowprice supermarket chain in the UK that's almost as huge and monopolizing as Walmart. It's pretty funny, to me at least, that Herbert has fashioned a highly personalized and doggedly odd little instrumental techno album, a plunge back into his spikiest and most idiosyncratic pseudonym, all out of the crud you can buy for cheap at a fluorescentlit temple to massproduction culture.  Choosing to sample the waste products of late capitalism is a little bit of knowledge that he hopes might linger in the listener's mind, if they know the track's backstory. How seriously you take this, whether it seems like a subtle and legit form of protest or agitprop windowdressing on music that doesn't need it, is up to you. You're allowed to think this is pretentious and misguided the world's not going to stop producing planetkilling amounts of garbage because an English egghead tsktsk'd them via a dance record while still enjoying the records. Personally, I find Herbert's commitment charming, even weirdly inspiring in its quixoticness.  As usual with Herbert's work, leaving politics or even theorydriven art aside for a moment, Tesco is fun on two levels. One is trying to figure what samples were used, how he transformed them, what that awesomely weird noise might actually be. Because very little on Tesco actually sounds like crumpledup candy wrappers or someone smacking a milk bottle. Could Herbert really make an entire aliensounding but surprisingly groovy album from a palette of sounds of consumerist junk (and junk food) found at a massive chain grocery store? That bracing blast of airplanetakingoff noise that blows through the jittery funk contraption called \"Lucozade\"? Someone blowing on the top of a bottle and then digitally blasting that mouthnoise all to hell?  This is the \"having fun with conceptual art\" level, also known as the \"puzzling out the magician's tricks\" level. Within the contentfree confines of instrumental dance music, it's not to be discounted. Because without that, or a singer's personality to grab onto, or a cop to songform that gives you a humworthy chorus you long to hear again, you're otherwise left with little following the hiccups and pivots of Herbert's grooves for however many minutes. Good thing those hiccups and pivots are pretty unpredictable. This is the other level of Tesco's fun, taking familiar genre templates and scribbling madly outside their lines without wholly effacing them, offering tracks that provide the basic feel of stuff you already like but cast in itchy and everevolving new forms. Like the way \"Walkers\" (the British name for Lay's chips) would be fierce minimal party techno if it didn't keep growing these weirdbuteargrabbing patches of gnarly distortion. And for those who prefer to take their beats straightup but want a little more variety than usual, Herbert hasn't lost his knack for using his realworld samples to fashion hihats and kicks that buzz and snarl in ways no drum machine would. \"Coke\" hearkens back to Herbert's timbredrunk early records, where he helped to invent what came to be known as microhouse, and where each tiny beat in a given bar seems to have its own luxuriously grainy texture. Being an album that relies on the pleasures of sculpting unexpected source material into delicate and woozy grooves, or banging and freaky grooves, definitely makes Tesco a harder sell than one of Herbert's own tweaked attempts at mass appeal, such as, say, his brilliant turn as popproducerforhire on Róisín Murphy's Ruby Blue or his own showbiz extravaganza with Scale. For those seeking to escape the big dumb blare of mainstream house and techno in 2012, however, Tesco is a balm. And for a minor work by a major artist, it's proof that even when certain smart people consciously aim for a lowstakes project, they still can't help bringing a certain baseline of invention and personality to it. Restlessness with the ordinary is probably to be expected with Herbert, even for a record that feels like a breather until his next bigcanvas project. "}