{"label":" Nude Beach","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18139/homepage_large.188b839d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Steven Hyden","artist":"Nude Beach","title":"II","text":" Every year, there are dozen or so classicist rock bands that make records that are virtually identical to II, the latest by Brooklyn powerpop trio Nude Beach. So far in 2012, the two best examples come from opposite ends of the world: The fine Leaving Atlanta by Georgian tunesmith Gentleman Jesse, and the spiritlifting selftitled debut by Australia's Royal Headache. You know the reference points for this music: midperiod Replacements, early Elvis Costello, alleras Tom Petty. These records exist at the intersection of middleAmerican punk and heartland classic rock. No matter what is happening in the rest of the world musically, there are always people mainly young, scruffyhaired white guys, though women sometimes get in on the act, too who write snappy, nofrills threeminute poprock songs, and then package them into 10song, 30minute records. It has nothing to do with being fashionable. Certainly, the world doesn't necessarily \"need\" more records like this, which is why they eventually tend to languish in recordcollector obscurity. But arguing against the continued existence of this music is like saying they shouldn't make new kinds of beer. Why limit the production of what is, first and foremost, a populist pleasure producer, even if the variation among new products is minimal? After all, the exact right combination of simple, chunky chords required to create The Perfect Rock Song That Makes All Other Rock Songs Irrelevant has not yet been achieved. Surely, this is what has motivated Chuck Betz, Ryan Naideau, and Jimmy Shelton as they've played and recorded as Nude Beach for the past four years. II is a record created with the belief that a trebly guitar riff, a nobullshit drum beat, and a heartmelting chorus can still rip out the hearts of hopeless romantics young and old. Thankfully, Nude Beach are skilled enough as songwriters and unskilled enough as musicians to reaffirm this belief yet again.  II came very close to being one of those highly enjoyable powerpop records that end up locked inside some local scene somewhere. It was the latest in a series of selfreleased records distributed by the band on cassette and vinyl at shows in and around Brooklyn. Nude Beach's profile was raised this past spring during a tour with the Men, and after the initial pressing of 500 copies was sold out, Other Music Recording Co. stepped up to give II a wider release.  Those who picked up II after catching Nude Beach in concert were rewarded with a record that faithfully preserves the group's unpretentious barband charms. While Nude Beach selfidentify as punks, II is more akin to pub rock, the rootsdriven movement that predated the Sex Pistols in mid70s England. Elvis Costello had connections to that scene, and My Aim Is True is an obvious touchstone for II particularly \"Keep It Cool\" and the beery bearhug that is \"Cathedral Echoes\" but Nude Beach don't aspire to Costello's erudite lyricism or furious posturing. This is goodtime, forgetyourtroubles music whose primary subject is the pure, uncut joy it inspires. The albumopening \"Radio\" is made for the very thing the title references, barreling forward with an enthusiasm ideal for car stereos and rolleddown windows. \"You Make It So Easy\" is an affecting slowdance number conjuring the memory of a million other slow dances, both real and imagined. \"Love Can't Wait\" is the scrappy Tom Petty knockoff, delivered with enough affection and endearing awkwardness to make the thievery not only forgivable, but almost heroic. The only knock on II, again, is that this kind of record is like the city bus, and there's likely another carrier of endearingly disheveled hooks already looming around the corner. As likeable as the album is, there's no saying it won't get outmaneuvered by the next garage band that bashes out a halfhour of bluedenim melodies. What Nude Beach have on their side is songwriting ability and an unshakeable work ethic. That scrappy cornertavern rock record coming on the horizon might very well be made by them, too. "}