{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18150/homepage_large.c6bf770c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Matthew Dear","title":"Beams","text":" Matthew Dear is an illusionist. Each successive release under the Detroit producer's own name has seen him reveal more of himself as he simultaneously retreats deeper into the shadows. As his singing voice continues to take a frontandcenter position in his slithery electronic pop productions, it's also acquired a dark and oily air of decadence. Beams, his fifth solo fulllength under his own name, is said by its maker to be more \"positive\" in disposition than 2010's highwater mark Black City. But don't be fooled. \"I laughed when they hit you with their sticks/ You cried,\" goes one refrain. So the sinister hedonism continues. And while there's nothing quite as tongueinear lascivious as Black City's Reznorian \"You Put a Smell on Me\", Beams' constant neongray chug brings to mind a party that never ends. Synths peer through the chemical murk, occasionally breaking through before getting swallowed up by clouds of grime. Basslines wobble with sickness. The song in which Dear sums up the whole vibe \"Take a trip on something else\" is called \"Fighting Is Futile\", and the title defines Beams' albumlength experience: Dramamine be damned, it's tough to pull your way out of this thing. There's been no reason to assume that Matthew Dear lives this hedonistic shit for real, but Beams feels more personal. The firstperson pronoun is all over these 11 tracks. Dear wasn't always comfortable being so bold, either vocally and in terms of accessible songwriting. His 2003 debut, Leave Luck to Heaven, and the following year's Backstroke saw his voice gasping in bursts under the abstract, janky techno soundscapes that are associated with his trackoriented work as Audion. The side of Dear that most are familiar with today emerged on 2007's enjoyable Asa Breed, a watershed that lacked cohesion but made up for its disjointed faults by virtue of sheer pop playfulness. Black City brought all these elements together, but Beams actually oneups its predecessor in terms of cohesion. The album is Dear's most consistent work yet, operating as one upward build that, save for the leaden \"Shake Me\" (which feels out of place even without knowing its status as a repurposed demo that dates back to 2003), moves in the same direction until its conclusion. But consistency is a tricky thing. There are a few impressive, memorable highlights here the steamcolumn elation of album opener \"Her Fantasy\", the radiant confusion of \"Ahead of Myself\". But as a fronttoback experience, the album doesn't exactly stay with you. In one sense, it feels like a victory lap, extending some of the best ideas from his strong recent run without improving on any of them. Next year marks a decade since Matthew Dear started releasing music under his own name. And given that almost every release since then has seen him pushing his closequarters aesthetic further into new territory, Beams' relative stasis is excusable.  "}