{"label":" Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18155/homepage_large.97ead1bb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Orb","title":"The Orbserver in the Star House","text":" A venerable British electronic music group, varyingly aimless since its raveera heyday, rejuvenates itself by hooking up with a global pop star whose style serves as a creative focal point. Sound familiar? Ambient house institution the Orb made its most engaging album in years by meeting Pink Floyd's David Gilmour on his own intimately spacey turf for 2010's Metallic Spheres. Now Orb linchpin Alex Paterson and German techno mortician Thomas Fehlmann, a frequent member since the mid1990s, rerun the scenario with another living legend on THE ORBSERVER in the star house, producing even fresher if not revolutionary results. Rather than embalming past glories or forcing a big statement, the Orb sound like they're having fun on these jams, recorded quickly in Berlin, with pioneer Lee \"Scratch\" Perry. On our end, the feeling is mutual. Let's be honest this thing could easily have come out as an interstellar train wreck of piling echoes and filter snaps, as can happen when dub is built by addition rather than subtraction. But the Orb gesture at the Black Ark Studios aesthetic with panache and restraint. Working at the seam where fouronthefloor house and offbeat reggae complementarily zip together, Paterson and Fehlmann feed Perry lots of grimy, bounding funk patterns and muscular bass, demonstrating how the difference between European dance music and Jamaican riddim can amount to one pumpedup chord flashing urgently on the upbeat. With dub as a lodestar rather than a limit, the disc has a lot of different tones, even getting into American rap territory on two gritty highlights. With the surety of an expert assembling a rifle, \"Go Down Evil\" clicks together around a nervous frame of synthesizer and then falls out of tune like a vintage RZA track. The restive bassline and whispering snaps of \"Man in the Moon\" sound like something Lil Wayne would have weirdly crushed circa Da Drought 3. \"I'm not a rapper,\" Perry modestly disclaims after lacing \"Man in the Moon\" with a lightly tripping patois, but there is something Waynelike if much gentler and quieter in his free associative approach to vocalization here. From Perry flows a long river of sung and muttered thoughts and images, wending through scenery both monotonous and sublime at its own patient pace. The lyrics mingle rocksteady boilerplate, sensual insights, pragmatic advice, and exuberant nonsense. Perry wants to take us \"higher, higher.\" He sagely counsels that \"hearing is a feeling\" and, to cover the practical side of things, \"if you're thirsty, drink some water.\" He looks at stars and thinks about the pace of God. He lets us know exactly what he can do: \"What I can do, puhpooh, puhpoopoo, and I can coocacoo.\" Lowkey almost to a fault, he responds most animatedly to tracks with a lot of fluid changes and sounds a little lost amid stasis, as when riding out the endless slabs of humped bass in the repetitive \"H.O.O.\". THE ORBSERVER in the star house has an unfettered vitality that is not always achieved when legends from different genres meet in the studio, though selfreverence rears its head on occasion. Deep cut \"Police and Thieves\" is a lukewarm reggae shuffle that makes the record feel like it's running out of steam, even though it's a modern take on a classic Perry production for Junior Murvin. \"Golden Clouds\" is a callback of the 1991 Orb classic \"Little Fluffy Clouds\", beginning with the same question, \"What were the clouds like when you were young?\" On the original, it was answered by a wideeyed Ricky Lee Jones over music of crystalline euphoria. Here, a meteorological report from Perry pairs with a grainy swirl of acousticsounding strings and kit drums, shaggily rococo like a Villalobos contraption. There is a hint of disillusionment in the change of perspective: Where the clouds were once symbols of childlike wonder, now they're just clouds. But it also speaks of a group who is living in the present rather than the past, an encouraging sign of good things to come. "}