{"label":" Late Night Tales","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18165/homepage_large.fc3de2ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Metronomy","title":"LateNightTales","text":" In the evolution of the Late Night Tales mix series from showcasing acts like Zero 7 and Groove Armada into a more selfaware series of homages to yacht rock and MOR 1980s pop over the past decade, it's comfortably occupied that place where music taste seems performative yet sincere, aware of its potentially embarrassing tendencies but not entirely inclined to care. Its expanded stylistic scope makes a statement in itself: If you want to fight against the idea that downtempo slow jams are soporific garbage, it's a savvy move to string together examples from every corner imaginable radioready R&B, fusion jazz, IDM, indie pop, MOR, folk, ambient, new age and pull off at least a moderately unpredictable dynamic by trading genre for mood. Split the difference between all these styles, and in the best case scenario, the compilation curators come up with their own new thing entirely. The worstcase scenario, meanwhile, mostly involves a lot of weird juxtaposition for its own sake. And while Metronomy's entry into the Late Night Tales series isn't necessarily the worst case of anything, it is one of those mixes where half the entertainment value seems reliant on poking at clashing sensibilities. Joe Mount and co. have spent their threealbum career toying with styles and then jumping off to the next thing, and the tracklist on this collection clearly comes from the library of someone who knows the value of being adventurous without losing sight of what makes for decent pop. Building a bridge from Tweet to Chick Corea or Autechre to the Alan Parsons Project is one of those egalitarianintheory notions that comes from the noble idea of trying to make the avant and the accessible at least shake hands for a bit, and when it's pulled off well, notions of socalled clashing sensibilities feel mercifully irrelevant. It's a brilliant choice to lead things off with OutKast's underrated The Love Below deep cut \"Prototype\", the swoony psychedelic soul that emerged when André 3000 tried taking his own slice from D'Angelo's Voodoo. And the transition into Tweet's \"Drunk\", an overlooked piece of headswimming, lonelinesswrecked heartbreak from Southern Hummingbird, makes this the beginning of what, in another context, could have been an amazing dedication to the more introspective and intensely slowburning moments of early00s R&B. But then the scene starts to shift subtly at first, from there into souljazz and fusion (SaRa Creative Partners' \"Cosmic Ball\"; Chick Corea's \"El Bozo, Part 1\"), then into a pileup of indie rap (Dr. Octagon), 80s electrosoul (World Class Wreckin' Cru), 70s soft rock (the Alessi Brothers), IDM (Autechre) and soon enough, the pieces stop actually fitting together. The problem is that it's not enough to just get things to sound good together they have to feel good together, too. And as a tonesetting exploration of anything deeper than a record collection, this mix doesn't really make that much sense. The transitions can be jarring on a pure sonic level; the segue from \"Drunk\" to SaRa's \"Cosmic Ball\" tries to bridge minimalist R&B with  spacejazz, and the way their respective drum sounds try to shove each other aside has the same feeling of an elevator suddenly jostling between floors. Other juxtapositions are so jarring that it almost seems like they're trying to spin some snarky punchlines. If you somehow find a way to sink your way in to the jokey neoelectro of Geneva Jacuzzi's \"Love Caboose\" and get on its archtoafault wavelength, getting shoved from there to Two Lone Swordsmen's hoppedup Krautpunk workout \"You Are...\" is a rude way to knock you out of the loop. I wasn't kidding about the Alessi BrothersAutechre transition, either; the segue from the twee AM pop of \"Seabird\" into the seasick glitch of \"Fold 4, Wrap 5\" might have good intentions, but it still sounds like the kind of pairing that cancels out both songs' traits entirely. And as wide as the scope of downtempo tracks can be, it fails to set any cohesive mood; it goes from romantic to lonely to cosmic to quirky to unnerving all in its first five selections and never manages to recoup any sense of consistent purpose. Metronomy's Late Night Tales entry might work a bit better as a showcase of influence, but not much better. Any collection that includes something from early70s synthesizer superworkshop Tonto's Expanding Head Band (\"Cybernaut\") and the talkboxgoescountry innovation of steel guitarist Pete Drake (\"Forever\") at least has novelty on its side. But whatever influence that stuff might have on Metronomy themselves isn't all that present in a new track of theirs that's included here, \"Hypnose\", a slow trudge of vaguely Bernard Fevreesque codeine disco that sounds about as innovative and personalityrich as your typical circa1979 production library music LP. Songs like that shouldn't feel like less than the sum of their parts. Neither should mixes. "}