{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18161/homepage_large.40d0389e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Mono","title":"For My Parents","text":" Mono are a postrock band with a welltested formula that they have been working for years: lay out a weepy string theme, fatten it up slowly over nine or 10 minutes, and then nail it to the wall with guitars. On  their latest album, For My Parents, there isn't much juice remaining in it: You can anticipate every single dynamic shift in its five compositions, which is not typically an asset for instrumental music meant to take you on an emotional journey. There isn't much of a journey to be taken on For My Parents; the music doesn't develop, darken, or tell a story so much as it expands and deflates like a balloon. Trying to engage actively with it, to search its contours with your mind, is like poking a soap bubble. As they did on their live album Holy Ground, they enlist the Wordless Music Orchestra to back them, and the added heft of their strings makes the bombast even harder to take seriously: This is music destined for helicopterpanning shots of majestic rainforest canopies, closeups of dewyeyed Olympic athletes, and little else. They also stepped out from Steve Albini's production to enlist producer Henry Hirsch, who gathered the band and the orchestra in his cavernous cathedral space, Waterfront Studios, where every kettledrum thump and overdriven guitar could resound into the heavens. The album sounds beautiful, in the way that Peter Jackson's visions of heaven in his critically reviled adaptation of The Lovely Bones looked beautiful: picturebook simple but vivid and clear. The Wordless Music strings play their melodies with a nice armtwisting dab of schmaltz, which is necessary when you are navigating the Mr. Holland's Opuscaliber key modulations in the finale of \"Legend\". They manage to make a simple rising major scale on \"Legend\" feel like dawning rays of morning sunshine. It's an uphill struggle, though, to claim real pathos from such transparently cheesy material: The guitar melody for \"Nostalgia\" directly plagiarizes some Suzuki Violin School tunescrap my memory is still struggling to place from my childhood years in group classes. The melody to \"Unseen Harbor\" has a similar children'sexercise obviousness to its progression. It's hard to turn a nursery rhyme into Tchaikovsky. Mono's music is better used than listened to actively. As a vigorously marked road map to emotional catharsis, I can imagine it being helpful: If I were, say, doing a particularly tough yoga class, I'm sure that cueing up \"Dream Odyssey\" at the right moment would help me sink more deeply, more meaningfully, into my Warrior Two. Other music functions this way, creating a space for you to have your own thoughts more than it bothers to have its own. But you can't exactly sink into a soothing bubble bath while Mono plays, either, as every piece works its way into a thundering, TransSiberian Orchestra climax that would have me scrambling out of the tub for the volume button. The garish maximalism would be fine if the pieces did more to distinguish themselves from each other. Or if they were truly exciting. But For My Parents suffers, somehow, from both tastefulness and tastelessness: Too mushy and indistinguishable to wallop you in the gut and too cheesy to be taken seriously, the album feels, at its worst, like a series of power ballads with the choruses ripped out. If they really want to make the postrock equivalent of a Michael Bay film try a dirtier distortion pedal, for instance, or bring in the brass or better yet, a big heavy gong I'm there. But that kind of awesome would likely entail risking more genuine awfulness than Mono probably have in them. "}