{"label":" Sham Palace","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18172/homepage_large.79550527.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Dabke","title":"Sounds of the Syrian Houran","text":" When Sun City Girls' Richard and Alan Bishop (as well as a few close allies) commenced transmitting world musics via their Sublime Frequencies label back in 2004, it was a flummoxing aural experience for many music critics, no matter how adventurous their palates might be. Across the label's intoxicating early run covering everything from Burmese skronk to Laotian folk to North Korean propopera it revealed a modern world (of) music that was as intense and surreal as anything imaginable in the Western music canon. The label even brought audiences vital modern acts like Tuareg guitarist Bombino and the astounding family band Group Doueh, not to mention the brusque, pokerfaced Syrian pop vocalist Omar Souleyman via tours of Europe and the United States. Late last year, fellow Sublime Frequencies conniver Mark Gergis started up yet another imprint called Sham Palace. The label's first order of business was to reissue a rare 60minute cassette from Souleyman onto vinyl. With five Souleyman titles now available in American shops, this would appear at first to be an example of flooding the marketplace. Only, the double LP featured a king cobra of a track in the 30minute version of \"Leh Jani\" (a truncated version of which appeared on SF's Highway to Hassake album). For those who had thought that the Sublime Frequencies catalog already exposed the rawest of sounds to be found in such farflung locales, the Sham Palace record suggested that they could in fact always get deeper and harder. So it follows with this compilation of 1990s2000s dabke music, a staple of wedding ceremonies, and judging by the sounds of this compilation, the aural equivalent of vodkaRed Bulls: jittery and buzzing Bacchanalian dance grooves that are slightly metallic in tone. And while Souleyman hails from the northeastern part of Syria (his dabke featuring the bouzouk), this compilation culls its sounds from tapes released in the southern region Houran, ranging from Damascus in Syria into Jordan and west toward the Golan Heights. It's here that Gergis traveled about, recording live from the mixing desk at such raucous wedding parties in the region. And once again, the Sublime Frequencies folks explore the music of a region that doubles as a Western media hot topic, gratefully offering neither context nor analysis. Instead, we have only the music. The notes state that this region of Syria jumbles together Syrians, Bedouin, Palestinians, Jordanians, and more, yet however acute the ear for noting regional differences might be, they are soon overwhelmed by the drone of the mijwiz that snakes through all seven of the songs. A double bamboo reed that's shrill, adenoidal, jolting, flybuzzing, and ensorcelling with every swing of circular breath, the mijwiz is foregrounded in such wedding songs. Traditionally, the sound was balanced between the reed, handdrums and vocal chants. But when the drums went electronic in the early 90s (read: hiphop), the mijwiz much like the guitarist and lead vocalist scrambled to do amid jazz's big bands also went electric so as to remain out front. And now modern dabke interweaves sampled and mic'd mijwiz melodies, making for tightly interwoven melodic lines from the doubled mijwiz and synth. So the tone on Faraj Kadah/Ashraf Abu Leil's sevenminute dabke ranges from finely minced beeps to breathlessness to a tone not unlike the bleat of a sorethroated calf. Ahmad Al Kosem's fierce songs have their titles translate as \"Love Is No Joke\" and \"I Will Grieve Until I See Her Again\", fine wedding themes both. And amid an album full of tough and coarse male vocal plaints, my favorite remains the utterly bizarre chipmunk voices that crash the wedding of Mohamed Al Ali's contribution. Again, the Sublime Frequencies family presents a snapshot of a region only just reaching our ears via the Western news media and tales of international crisis (see their compilations of Iraqi and North Korean music, for example). It's a complicated situation, one not easily gleaned from reading the Times or Al Jazeera, and rather than comment, Gergis and crew offer us a brief yet very human glimpse into a people all too often abstracted by the 24hour news cycle. "}