{"label":" Fool's Gold","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18174/homepage_large.4b5521ae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Sweet Valley","title":"Stay Calm","text":" I'd say both fans and critics of Nathan Williams will likely agree on one point: The guy operates with almost complete artistic transparency. His failures and triumphs as Wavves certainly haven't been private, he makes no attempt to hide what kind of music he aspires to make, and he writes songs about marijuana, feeling like shit, surfing, his girlfriend, and wanting to meet Dave Grohl. The exact same things he talks about in interviews. This all works in favor of Stay Calm, a 22minute beat tape he made with his brother Joel \"Kynan\" under the name Sweet Valley, because it does away with any questions about intent and sincerity and makes you take it at face value. And everything from its cartoonporn cover to its California Games song titles to the 80s baby name of the group only serves to underline what the music eventually reveals: this is exactly what you'd expect out of a 22minute beat tape from Wavves and his brother; act accordingly. Because the idea of a young punkpop artist making beats on the side isn't interesting in and of itself. It's probably harder to find ones who aren't interested in hiphop production and considering you can catch, for example, Trash Talk and SpaceGhostPurrp regularly sharing bills like it's nothing, it's obvious there's more crossover between the punk and rap worlds than fashion and skateboard tricks. But ultimately, the Williams brothers appear less interested in taking chances and establishing their own voice in this field than flipping the Spicoli persona of Wavves and presenting themselves as eager students. Though it does so rather adroitly, each track ultimately distinguishes itself as the one that acknowledges some unspoken assignment and does \"that thing.\" \"Total Carnage\" is the one that chops up soul samples and puts it over squealing synth leads. The wobbly \"Suzuka 9 Hours\" makes a day out of field trips to the Brainfeeder and Stones Throw headquarters. There's those Gfunk references on \"Dunk Dreams 95\". All in all, it's something like Javelin without the curatorial bent. Stay Calm does maintain a center throughout, mostly working in postchillwave beatmaking microtrends while retaining the sunburnt, majorkey vibe of Wavves' breakthrough summer of 2009. Even with its lurch and clicking hihats, the ska guitar stabs on \"Sidewalk Surfer\" suggest that any talk of \"footwork\" in regards to Sweet Valley should be discussing that of Ben Carr rather than anything out of Chicago. The wailing vocal samples on \"Eight\" indeed sound haunted, but they're more tweaked to sound like friendly ghosts than witchhouse. All in all, it's sunny, it's stoned, and its brief periods of hyperactivity are counterbalanced by long stretches of summer sedation. In other words, it'd be perfect musical accompaniment for a brief skateboarding video, but that just reminds me of an actual skateboarding video soundtrack made by Odd Nosdam a while back that did most of this stuff with more finesse and range. I was really into it for a couple of weeks and then forgot it as quickly. Which speaks to an unavoidable shortcoming of Stay Calm, that it's distinguished more by its possibilities for integration than its actual content. As far as texture, sample flipping, and diversity, these don't do anything above the call of duty but let's be real, the potential for synergy means that there's a chance Freddie Gibbs or Danny Brown might actually rap over it. Likewise, it's hard not to wonder if some of these ideas would be better served as future Wavves songs, since Stay Calm is not all that far off from samplebased material like \"Mickey Mouse\" and \"Baseball Cards\" from King of the Beach. Those weren't the singles, but they nonetheless served as the best argument for Williams' musicality and staying power. If the whole point was to put the word out that the Williams brothers make beats, keep Nathan's name hot while we await the upcoming Wavves record, and boost the profile of Joel, then Stay Calm is unquestionably a success on account of it doing nothing to damage either party. It justifies its appearance as a flicker on your Twitter feed, but as 22 minutes of our finite time on planet Earth that could be used to call your mother or finally finish that grad school application... Whatever you decide, I think you knew the answer all along. "}