{"label":" Chapter Music","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18181/homepage_large.9d5331b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Fabulous Diamonds","title":"Commercial Music","text":" Australian twopiece Fabulous Diamonds have undergone a slow evolutionary crawl. On Commercial Music, singer/keyboardist Jarrod Zlatic and drummer/singer Nisa Venerosa's third record, they even got around to giving it a title (their second album, released in 2010, was simply named II). There have been musical changes, too. Their new sound has a taut robustness to it, making it feel like the duo's grip on their craft has strengthened. There are song titles for the first time. Even the production values feel heightened. Listening to their albums back to back is like watching a relationship evolve over a long period of time, with Zlatic and Venerosa doing a slow, awkward dance around this thing they've created. On Commercial Music they get to pull it in a little tighter, with \"little\" being the operative word. These are small and, at times, barely perceptible changes, with all the key elements of prior Fabulous Diamonds songs subtly extended. Fundamental to Zlatic and Venerosa's work is the creation of vast, encircling expanses of repetition, often taking the form of organ drones that have no tangible beginning, middle, or end. They just lie there embedded in the sound, like a giant lead weight pinning everything down. Played loud, it feels hard to move when Fabulous Diamonds hit that particular moment in their stride, like an immovable force has just been placed in your path. It's by far their biggest asset as a band, especially as Zlatic and Venerosa have steadily become experts at tension and release. \"Inverted Vamp\" ducks into a onenote trench and forcefully pulls in everything around it, causing Venerosa's gloriously flat monotone to roll over and get out of its way. A useful comparison is the work of Broadcast, who progressed in a similarly genteel fashion over the course of their career. Venerosa's vocals share Trish Keenan's temperate approach, never boiling over into untrammeled emotion, always staying on an even keel. Broadcast felt like a band that had to cut itself off from the world to progress, and it's easy to frame Fabulous Diamonds within the same context. There are reference points the crisp organ grind on \"Lothario\" plays like a slowed down version of the classic Flying Nun cut \"Buddy\" by Snapper; the awkwardly titled \"???\" whips up a swirl of electronic sound reminiscent of Silver Apples. But Commercial Music only makes fleeting allusions to other places and times. That strengthening of their sound, giving everything more muscle and tone, has lent more personality to this work, pushing the duo closer to a world of their own creation. But it doesn't always pan out that way. Surprisingly, the gear shift to pop structure that occurs in \"Wandering Eye\" (presumably the track that sparked the album title) is ill fitting. It's possible this is a seed planted in order to fully develop it next time, but here the versechorusverse structure lacks the necessary hook to elevate it to the spot it really needs to hit. It's a shame, because Fabulous Diamonds often have the feel of bands like Stereolab or Yo La Tengo, who can tie up pop and avant impulses in one tidy parcel. Commercial Music ends with a step back into a place of pure repetition on \"Downhill\". Zlatic and Venerosa feel more comfortable there, bending ideas around an openended template, pulling themselves away from the confines of the shorter material on the album, knowing exactly when to pull one another back from the brink. Actual \"commercial music\" isn't Fabulous Diamonds' forte, but watching them try to dig out a place orbiting that idiom does have its merits. "}