{"label":" Playground","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18187/homepage_large.9583e828.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Oneman","title":"Fabriclive 64","text":" Revelations are hardwon in mixes these days, so when a jewel of inspiration catches your ears, the impact is that much greater. Witness, for instance, what happens around the halfway mark on southwest London DJ Oneman's nearly 70minute blast for Glasgow labelofthemoment LuckyMe's mix series last year, when the immortal rush of Prince's \"I Would Die 4 U\" hits the speakers. An expertly selected smattering of bass and dance precedes the refreshingly notsodeep cut, so the immediate familiarity of a selection so tied to a monoculture feels jarring for anyone not sitting in front of a tracklist. Then, the Purple One's proclamations lead into a different kind of Purple specifically, of the Bristol kind, as the tart synths of \"She Wore Velour\", a highlight from the Night Slugsreleased, sole EP by Bristol boys Hyetal and Julio Bashmore's Velour project, The Velvet Collection, luxuriously unspool atop a jetblack surface. It's an inspired matchup, as well as a pretty good audiochromatic joke (even if Bashmore's been leaning more towards proper house and pop these days). The willingness to extend beyond beatmatching and showing off a personal bounty of unreleased dubplates, to create a narrative and mine unexpected sources, is precisely what's earned Oneman, aka Steve Bishop, the \"DJ's DJ\" tag from those in the know. His 502 Recordings label (which put out a short run of unbeatable singles in 2011 and more or less hasn't been heard from since) deals primarily with bass music, and the last few years have seen his name rise within the community as an expert spinner. So the opening cut of Bishop's Fabriclive mix, the 64th in the famed London club's ongoing series, is a mighty clever selection, as the thickness of Mark Pritchard's \"?\", carrying a brown soundworthy low end, cuts an imposing figure (try it at any volume and avoid feeling disoriented I dare you). The proclamation is hard to miss: You want the bass? Have at it. Of course, mere wit isn't enough especially when concerning the visceral pleasures of dance music so Fabriclive 64 proceeds to dispel such arch notions, as Bishop stretches his legs and dazzles by weaving cut after choice cut seamlessly. The writeup that accompanies the LuckyMe mix refers to his mixing style as \"technotight,\" and indeed what's on display here is nearly seamless, an hour of perfectly stitchedtogether body music that's so airtight that when the beat drops ever so briefly, on the VIP mix of Grievous Angel's rowdy \"Move Down Low\", I still check my iTunes to make sure it didn't freeze. The overall mood varies from hardhitting to spacious to enormously elegant, but there's seldom a place to wander, a point where you're anything less than inthemoment. The steady energy means that you're there, you're captivated, and you're locked. Possibly the most exciting aspect of Fabriclive 64 is how it functions as a fascinating survey of what's been taking place in the evermutating UK bass scene over the past few years. It's not comprehensive (with the everchanging face of bass, how could it be?) but its selection of sonic permutations the colorful swarm of SBTRKT, MikeQ's heavyhitting ballroom fire, Night Slugs cohead Bok Bok's houseinfused work with Dutch producer and Rush Hour affiliate Tom Trago more than communicate the scene's constantly shifting eccentricities. Referring to Fabriclive 64 as a snapshot, though, would be doing a disservice to Bishop's expressive blend of past and present, as the dusty UK Garage of Dem 2 and Steve Gurley's gorgeous 2step rework of Basement Jaxx's \"Red Alert\" (easily the mix's most surprising source of elation) fit perfectly alongside more current fare. So there's history here, represented both distantly and in the type that's been made before the eyes and ears of those who have been watching over the last few years. Applauding Fabriclive 64 for its potential didacticism, though, would be unjustly ignoring just how much fun it is to listen to, how easily and pleasantly it moves, how Steve Bishop is playing to the rafters and pulling out all the stops when his name alone represents a seal of approval for many. An ironic occurrence regarding the meteoric rise of what the mainstream media calls \"EDM\" is that the massive popularity accompanied by the boom has only caused folks to draw deeper lines in the sand. Here's my music, the real kind, enjoy whatever it is you're listening to. That isn't what you're calling it this is more like what you're referencing, and you probably wouldn't get it, anyway. This snobbery has existed in the dance community for eons (and its gatekeeping fires have been stoked by the wonders of the internet, naturally), but it seems especially dangerous and, it must be said, staunchly classist in recent times. I'd like to think that anyone would like Fabriclive 64. Not because they'll learn something, or because it's impeccably hip. Simply, rather, because it's good music, and it doesn't take a genius to see the value in that. "}