{"label":" In the Red","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18204/homepage_large.e6b9a72d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Thee Oh Sees","title":"Putrifiers II","text":" At this past July's Pitchfork Music Festival, the scheduling gods played a cruel joke on fans of fuzzedout San Francisco garagerock by placing scene vets Thee Oh Sees and their prodigalson pal Ty Segall on competing stages with overlapping set times. The irony was not lost on Thee Oh Sees' frontman John Dwyer, who, despite getting their show off to a righteously arsekicking start, jokingly begged to the crowd after three songs \"don't leave!\" as Segall's set time approached. This simple, selfdeprecating plea effectively delineated the difference between these two likeminded, furiously prolific acts. Segall, after all, is in the midst of a banner year that's seen him release two albums including his best to date, Slaughterhouse with a third on the way, and he's still young enough that his whimsical, impulsive approach to recording forms a mediafriendly narrative of the punk wunderkind realizing his true potential. On the other hand, Thee Oh Sees are the latest, albeit the most durable, in a long, 15year lineage of Dwyerhelmed projects, and one whose consistency in terms of both quantity and quality makes for a somewhat less sexy story. Dude releases a shitton of records because, after all these years in the game, he's still restless and resourceful. That said, Putrifiers II is Thee Oh Sees' first album of 2012, which is a weird statement to be typing considering that we're well into September. (Though given the band's ceaseless output, it's not too farfetched to imagine that a Putrifiers I was recorded and scrapped somewhere along the way.) Thee Oh Sees' records have more or less charted the band's evolution from Dwyer's solitary psychpop project to bruteforce hypnopunkers. Now, with their reputation as one of America's most redoubtable live acts wholly assured, Thee Oh Sees use Putrifiers II to explore the possibilities of the studio and more lustrous modes of psychedelia. It's not exactly uncharted territory for Dwyer and company, but where Thee Oh Sees are prone to segregating their more refined pop sensibilities from their gonzorock raveups (as their two 2011 releases, Castlemania and Carrion Crawler/The Dream, respectively illustrate), Putrifiers II reconciles these two modes, providing a more complete, elaborate picture of this band's many capabilities and strengths. Which is to say: If the sheer enormity of Thee Oh Sees' dense discography has proven too forbidding for you to delve into, Putrifiers II is a convenient summary/gateway, opening with a killer shot of the band's patented echodrenched fuzzpunk delirium (\"Wax Face\") and closing with a baroque, stringswept lullaby (\"Wicked Park\"), while traversing all points in between. But even as Putrifiers II turns more melodic and mellow, broadening the band's sonic scope with strings and woodwinds, it retains the nervy irreverence: With its shrieking cello line and opiumden ambience, \"So Nice\" unabashedly kneels before the shiny leather boots of the Velvet Underground's \"Venus in Furs\" and, as such, becomes a knowing allegory for the master/slave dynamic that plays out in the original. If the drawnout titletrack dirge and the moonlightstrolling \"Will We Be Scared?\" (the sort of warped, revisionist 50sstyle ballad Bradford Cox has made his stockintrade) threaten to curb the midalbum momentum, they prove to be effective calmbeforethestorm setups to the mighty \"Lupine Dominus\", which manages to condense everything that is great about Thee Oh Sees into three thrilling minutes: Dwyer and Brigid Dawson's eerily androgynous harmonies cooing a disarmingly childlike melody, and a carcrash tangle of guitar/organ noise, all hitched to a steely Krautrock pulse. It feels like the sort of song that, after so many years of exploratory recordings, could very well define the true sound of Thee Oh Sees. Or it's the sort of peak moment that could give Dwyer reason to tear it all down and radically redefine his band once again. At the very least, we know it likely won't be long before we find out. "}