{"label":" Young Turks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18197/homepage_large.57fc31d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"The xx","title":"Coexist","text":" The xx's selftitled debut was the kind of record that filled a void most of us didn't know existed. Several currents of music flowed into the work of this London band to create something that felt strangely new. Singers Romy Madley Croft and Oliver Sim treated the pop song like a whispered secret, an achingly intimate exchange best understood in the general vicinity of a bed. And the xx foregrounded the hushed voices by process of subtraction, creating music with a daring sense of space. Under the production direction of third member Jamie Smith (now known as Jamie xx), the xx created a sound world where the simplest chord change was freighted with emotion. xx's minimal production reacquainted listeners with the expressive possibility of the guitar. Croft's gently picked lines, ultra clean with a tasteful mist of reverb, were quietly devastating in their own way, connecting the music with indie rock proper. The final piece of the puzzle was Jamie xx's careful beat programming, which was aware of uptothemoment trends in UK bass music but never pandered to them. These parts came together in a debut that sounded great at the time and has become a landmark. Channeling the spirit if not the precise sound of the softer and more cerebral end of R&B (Sade Adu is the spirit mother, Aaliyah the holy ghost) and mixing it with a pinch of DIY guitar music and a smart underpinning of rhythm, the xx created music rich with possibility. And while they didn't change the way music was made, they did have an effect on how it was heard. Without them, we'd be coming at music by artists like the Weeknd and Jessie Ware with different ears. But you knew what was coming with album number two: Where do you go next? Do you light out for new territory or refine what's already there? The xx have chosen the latter tack, if you consider further stripping of their alreadynaked sound a refinement. Coexist takes the most distinctive things about the xx \"shh\" vocals, guitar patterns that feel like faint line drawings, lyrics that detail the most essential aspects of yearning and eliminates virtually everything else. It didn't seem possible that the arrangements on the debut could stand to have even more taken from them, but that's what's happened here. In that regard, the album feels in its own way brave. They're doubling down on what makes them stand out, which brings with it the real possibility of selfparody. Fortunately, the xx aren't at that point yet. So the most appealing thing about this record is that this band, having created a brilliant and moving sound, returns to it again for another 38 minutes. \"Angels\" drips with austere beauty, \"Tides\" begins a duet so stark it's breathtaking, the evocative piano in \"Swept Away\" is a nice wrinkle. This is still gorgeous stuff, and it's hard not to enjoy it while it's on. But while the edifice of their aesthetic still stands, in a few places it's getting a little rickety. If generally successful on its own terms, Coexist also serves to remind us why exactly the debut was so brilliant. For one, xx had a very subtle and effective sense of dynamics. I'm thinking in particular of songs such as \"Islands\", with its halting beat that mapped the pushpull production of Timbaland onto an indie pop context. There are no such moments on Coexist, an album that moves from one song to the next like a slowrolling fog. You can't help but wish Jamie xx had experimented a bit more and borrowed ideas hatched from his creative run of production work since the debut. With his remixes, DJ sets, mixes, and a brilliant single, he's proven to be one of the more adventurous and openminded young producers going, hungry to incorporate all kinds of sounds and approaches into his music. The only real evidence of those explorations here is the steel drum that pops up on \"Reunion\", which brings to mind his use of the instrument in his single \"Far Nearer\" and gives Coexist a rare crack of light. There's no reason why the xx have to try something new sonically. But bands with a unique signature generally stick around by growing as songwriters and staying open to the possibilities of production. Coexist shows no such growth. With the music so focused and constrained, the album becomes slightly claustrophobic; where the first made you think about the different sounds that came from outside, this feels closed off. In terms of lyrics, the xx have done away with specificity and chosen to focus on the travails of relationships using the broadest possible language. If I were to say, \"You know the song that mentions a look in a lover's eyes?\" you'd say, \"Which one?\" because some variation of the phrase pops up repeatedly. I see it in your eyes... the feeling in my heart... something has changed...the feeling goes on... never again... A handful of images and thoughts are shuffled like a deck of cards and doled out, seemingly at random. And while Croft or Sim don't need to get near Frank Ocean's level of sophistication for their music to work, with music so minimal, I find myself yearning for a line as pedestrian and relatable as \"We watch things on VCRs.\" Too often, these words feel like placeholders. Shortcomings aside, I find myself enjoying Coexist and returning to it. It's hard not to be disappointed given what came before, but the xx are still a special band, and time could possibly be kinder to their second LP as its place within a longer career comes into focus. For now, they've earned the right to make this record. Every band that creates a new world deserves a chance to return to it, to play around some more and see how much inspiration still exists. Asking for a third shot at it, on the other hand, is generally a harder sell. "}