{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18206/homepage_large.927da89e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"John Tejada","title":"The Predicting Machine","text":" Austriaborn, Californiabased producer John Tejada has straddled the line between carefully crafted, homelistening electronic music and sleek, minimal house for the bulk of his career, making him one of those rare touring DJs whose work has an undercurrent of domesticity to it. That might not be the most fashionable look (Tejada is, even in electronic music circles, far from a star), but the gamut has served him well creatively, resulting in an impressive nine fulllengths for labels as diverse as Plug Research, his own imprint Palette, and Kompakt over the course of his 14year arc. Over that time, Tejada has forged a reputation as a master craftsman, his attention to small sculptural details nicely offsetting his brand of crisp, elegant house. On previous records, such as last year's Parabolas, he restricted himself to a narrow palette of sounds, perhaps as a way to highlight this deftness with detail, but on The Predicting Machine, his second release for Kompakt in as many years, Tejada runs a bit wilder, pulling his sounds from a much deeper catalog of eras, labels, and styles. The end result is a record that feels less like a formal studio exercise and more like something that's as open to the past as it is to the future. Anyone who spent the early 2000s combing Warp and so many Warpinspired cottage industry label back catalogs will find lots of familiar sounds here. The sprightly twin bill of \"Glaringly Happy\" and closer \"When All Around Is Madness\" chime with the naive effervescence of the Morr Music era; the undulating \"Radio Channel\" churns on a frosty, ambient loop that wouldn't have sounded out of place on a Biosphere record; and the gently percolating synths from \"Winter Skies\" evoke Plaid at their warmest. Were The Predicting Machine just a demonstration of Tejada's fluency in those specific dialects of IDM and ambient, it wouldn't be nearly as interesting, but the slightly more retroleaning aspect of the record is offset nicely by some lustrous, futurefacing house. \"An Ounce of Perception\" introduces a limber and vaguely schaffelinspired rhythm before descending into a gleaming melodic hook; \"Horizon to Horizon\" boasts a wet, elasticated rhythm, and the knowingly titled \"A Familiar Mood\" returns Tejada to the percolating tech house that most people associate him with best. Add it all up, and you get one of Tejada's most varied records to date. "}