{"label":" Anxious / BMG","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1689/homepage_large.c3649ec2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Curve","title":"The Way of Curve","text":" I'm not the first to suggest that Garbage are the most aptly named band of all time, nor the first to demand that every pound Shirley Manson and Butch Vig made off that hideously commercial sham be returned to Toni Halliday, Dean Garcia and Alan Moulder. In perhaps the most shocking certainly the most boldfaced musical theft of the last ten years, Garbage shamelessly purloined Curve's drunken and dizzy dance swagger, and, armed with Vig's standing and Shirley Manson's pathetic, disposable extroversion, made millions off a band that's languished in inexcusable anonymity ever since. The first time I heard Curve a widely touted British crossover in the early 1990s my high school's resident tortured poetess (think Ally Sheedy in The Breakfast Club) was screaming the lyrics to their first single \"Coast Is Clear\" at me. I was sure I'd heard the line (\"I took those pills/ Now I'm sick\") somewhere before, but it was a week or so before I recognized \"Coast Is Clear\" on the local altrock station. Relative to The Stone Roses, The Jesus & Mary Chain or My Bloody Valentine, it seemed a bit slick, a little too industrial, and, given the association I was stuck with, it took some time to grow on me. But moping under the shadow of Robert Smith's hair, there was no way I could resist the dootdoot refrain; by the time their 1992 debut Doppelganger was given a release date, I was counting the days. Icy, beatdriven shoegaze classics, Doppelganger and the Pubic Fruit collection were never far from my walkman, and helped in my quest to tune out the world. The run of shimmering dancepop on these records is stunning, and what's more, as I grew up with them, their superficially attractive gloominess faded as the more sinister emotional content I couldn't grasp at 16 came to the fore. In the face of Toni Halliday's succulent rasp, Shirley Manson is a fumbling flower girl. Halliday's unnerving, condescending voice is the thinking man's ultimate fear and secret fantasy: a dropdead raven you'll never understand, whose mere presence obliterates the mystique you spent so much time cultivating in your head. Her unaffected lyrics aren't deep or ponderous, but their breathy, detached delivery admittedly aided by overdriven treble reduces men to their callous, selfabsorbed teenage selves. Not to skirt women's lib, but I imagine her directness and candor are of corollary interest to more than ten little girls.The Way of Curve opens with the band's first single, \"Ten Little Girls\", which, though it introduced their signature elements drum machines, distorted reverb guitar, cooing regrettably reached out to hiphop, featuring two atrocious verses from longforgotten MC JC001. While it was a forwardthinking bit of syncretism, and their chronological debut, \"Ten Little Girls\" is the wrong way to introduce this hits package, especially when you consider that they've left out superior alternatives. \"No Escape from Heaven\", \"Frozen\" and the relative hit \"I Speak Your Every Word\" are sorely missing from disc one of this set, which also overlooks what to my mind is their finest moment, the shatteredglass caterwaul \"Lilies Dying\" from Doppelganger. Erring on the side of Curve's more commercial tracks perhaps to underscore all that Garbage lifted from them? The Way of Curve's singles disc moves too quickly from their superb early work to the band's frankly middling, flavorofthemonth material from the mid1990s. \"Missing Link\", \"Pink Girl with the Blues\" and the atrocious \"Setting Sun\"/\"Born Slippy\" knockoff \"Chinese Burn\" aped all manner of ascendant UK sounds as Curve struggled to convince people to stop giving Garbage money they'd earned years earlier. Theirs was the right music at the wrong time, in commercial terms; Curve, for their commendably fearless exploration, never reclaimed the genius of their first album and EPs. Talked up as formidable comeback featuring Kevin Shields, 2001's Gift partially delivered on its promise with a pair of excellent, if relatively timid, returntoform singles. \"Want More, Need Less\" and \"Perish\" redeem Curve's mid90s confusion, and appropriately revisit the sound they made their name on as The Way of Curve's first disc comes to an end. \"Nice and Easy\", from 2002, is an unfortunate reassurance that, for the airy, tenuous success of Gift, Curve are not \"back.\" Disc two is, as you might expect, a rarities collection, and, given the justly criticized structural similarity between Curve's best and worst songs (they've either got it or they don't), much of this stuff is plainly superfluous. Leading with two disposable Bsides from the 1993 \"Missing Link\" single, the oddsandends collection, like its hits counterpart, is most valuable for its earliest inclusions: the outstanding flipsides from 1992's \"Horror Head\" EP, \"Mission from God\" and \"Today Is Not the Day\", which contend for top billing in Curve's entire catalog. \"Today Is Not the Day\" is one of the band's only triumphant departures from form, owing to Slowdive in its strippeddown insistence. Sunk by some needless remixes care of Aphex Twin and Kevin Shields, Curve's longlost cover of Donna Summer's \"I Feel Love\" crops up just before disc's end. A featured cut from the NME's hotly contested 1992 covers compilation Ruby Trax remembered, if at all, as an awkward, strongarmed survey of the preBritpop era the band's tribute hasn't aged well at all, and makes for damning evidence as to why so many critics dismissed them, even at their peak, as a samey technopop band with more pose than purpose. As someone who prefers to dwell on Curve's high rather than low points astute fans will notice I haven't invoked State of Play, a starsintheireyes major label mistake Halliday and Garcia made in the mid80s I'm glad the band selected the recently selfreleased ballad \"Sinner\" to close the inconsistent Way of Curve. A hollowedout, downtempo anthem, \"Sinner\" is perhaps their most poignant and certainly most patient recording; rising above its demoquality ProTools drum rhythm, the track leaves a lasting impression as a tiny, private moment from a pair of musicians shouldering an incomparably disastrous relationship with their chosen medium. "}