{"label":" Decon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18214/homepage_large.13a3c34e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"The Hood Internet","title":"FEAT","text":" If secondwave draganddroppers the Hood Internet ever offered anything, it was that, in the wake of Girl Talk, their mashups were simple and digestible. At just two or three artists per track, the duo allowed a good idea to breathe and flourish, leading to some genuine moments of inspiration. FEAT, their first album of original productions, ropes in over 20 collaborators, and it threatens to ignore the very formula which has served the Hood Internet so well. Alas, this Frankenstein does not go on a rogue murder spree, but you almost wish it would despite the packed roster, FEAT is almost shockingly hemmed in. Something more messy and allovertheplace might not have resulted in a better album, but after slogging through the deluge of blandness that is FEAT, it begins to sound at least like a more appealing idea. There is a war going on within FEAT, but it's probably not one that the Hood Internet wanted. This is an album where guest appearances have seemingly no rhyme or reason, yet, despite that, nothing interesting manages to occur. It's an experience not unlike visiting a supermarket deli on a weekday afternoon everyone gets served in a random but orderly fashion and all you want to do is get on with your day. It is a polite, neat album, especially coming from a group that has cut its teeth playing clubs and parties for several years. Every rap verse, for instance, sounds like it could've been recorded in your parents' family room without their minding. Most guests sound bored at worst, and at best like they are just trying to stay out of each other's way. This is not a mashup album, but sonically it feels fossilized in the same way. It is mostly an indie rap record, but its tones recall the bright, plasticky indie pop still prevalent when the Hood Internet formed a halfdecade ago. If Kevin Barnes spent a few hours fiddling around and making rap beats, or if the Blow tried to rekindle their relevancy by capitalizing on the Soundcloud \"trap\" scene, they might end up with tracks that sound like what we hear on FEAT. \"Uzi Water Gun\", for instance, is what I imagine a lot of college kids thought the future sounded like after Arular dropped. On \"Won't Fuck Us Over\" there's even a particularly nonsensical and wretched interpolation of the National's \"Mr. November\". Sounding dated isn't a sin in and of itself, though, and anyway it's the least of the Hood Internet's problems at it pertains to FEAT. The main issue here is a distinct and debilitating lack of craft. Whatever skills the duo have at making mashups did not carry over to their original productions, at least not here. \"Amateurish\" is a phrase that can be used charitably at times, especially if you get the sense that artists are working toward unlocking their own music. But FEAT is amateur in a wholly negative way every beat, and thus the album's core, is thin and rudimentary. Tracks like \"Won't Fuck Us Over\" and \"These Things Are Nice\" are built around synthhorns that try and nod at Southern rap but instead sound like what you'd come up with in the first five minutes of ever using Logic. There are a few moments where things sort of click into place, but they happen to be when the floor is ceded to established professionals like Class Actress (the final 90 seconds of \"Critical Captions\") and A.C. Newman (\"One for the Record Books\"), a development that is probably not a coincidence. Those happen to be the first two songs, and the rest of the album is a string of dull, droning rapping and unmemorable choruses. Just about the only song that doesn't adhere to a numbing versechorusverse structure is the brittle and \"atmospheric\" palate cleanser \"Exonerated\", which is so torturously dreadful that it makes the argument for never speaking of Kid A ever again. An album of original productions was a logical next step for a group that's been slowly easing its way out of mashup purgatory for years, but FEAT makes it clear that the Hood Internet were not ready. That isn't quite a death knell in theory, but the larger problem is that there's almost nothing on the album that suggests they ever will be. There may be more Hood Internet albums in the future, and if that's so, I guess the best we can hope for is better networking. "}