{"label":" Rephlex","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1690/homepage_large.3fee56ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Cylob","title":"Mood Bells","text":" Most things don't change. Time passes and ideas about things change, but the actual nature of things stays pretty much the same. This is a phenomenon that, while never a popular train of thought among the superhip and tunedin, is almost always the final resting place for great thinkers and your grandparents alike. And of course, there's a constant, subversive debate over whether or not this is really the case. Some people will say that the idea of a static environment is contrary to the nature of culture and, in fact, nature itself. And then there's the issue of evolution, both theoretical and biological. These are all heavy philosophical arguments, but if you just ask your grandparents, you'll find that, in actuality, nothing has changed, and if anything, the state of the world is regressing. Now this debate becomes extra troublesome for us, the people who care about music above all other concerns, because often, the appearance of \"not changing\" is viewed negatively. You need look no further than Pitchfork's review archive to find that informed music thinkers often dismiss the new when it isn't. Chiefly, when an artist seems not to have advanced to the next square in the music game, the artist risks being accused of \"resting on his laurels,\" or worse, making the reviewer bored. And as we all know, a bored music critic is a crime against nature. I don't have a big problem with stuff staying the same, at least to a point. After all, if artists didn't go back to their roots (as if they had a choice), they'd never be able to build upon them. England's Cylob (aka Chris Jeffs) is building on roots with Mood Bells. To my ears, he's playing either ambient or new age music here, and though neither of those terms may leave the best of impressions on some listeners, they're certainly valid avenues of expression. Yes, I think the music here could have come from the 70s, 80s or 90s, and perhaps that means it's not a revolutionary concept in art, but it's also not a real criticism in my opinion. What will warrant criticism is dependent on your reaction to those roots do you like new age? So, with that out of the way, let's proceed with the album at hand. \"Tamtam Intro\" begins the album with no hint of irony, as it's essentially a gong splash. And that's it. The next tune is \"Majorette,\" which is a meditative figure played on bells. It's quite short (as are all the songs on Mood Bells), and features no embellishment or variation on the figure. It's the kind of music that I would play as a soundtrack to staring, because there aren't any bumps in the road or rough transitions. If that sounds like a compliment, then chances are you will like this record. If not, stay tuned. \"China Gong\" introduces a couple of new timbres, chiefly that of, well, a highpitched Chinese gong (like you hear in Chinese opera), and some kind of metallic mallet instrument. This isn't so much a song as a vignette of percussive textures. \"Dark Days\" brings in a scalar melody, but keeps the instrumentation from the previous tune intact. Sometimes the pitches shift up or down unnaturally, like you can do on keyboards with the little pitchshifter handle, though apparently, they are honesttogod bells, if a bit manipulated digitally. \"Sunday\" introduces more familiar synthlines, and perhaps wouldn't sound out of place on Björk's last album however, Björk would probably use this kind of thing for an intro, and then begin a proper song. Again, Cylob's music on this album is more effective as disembodied ambience than active listening experience, so it's probably best not to go in expecting fireworks. The only tune that features so much as a beat is \"Snowing,\" though it is suitably restrained. Fans of Cylob's previous ambient techno stuff will probably enjoy this release, but then fans of Cylob's previous, more rambunctious material (especially stuff like 1997's Cylob's Latest Effort EP) may be put off by the sheer passiveness of the music. I couldn't really call myself a fan of nearbeatless ambient, per se, but by the same token, this disc did make a great companion to writing and just looking out of my window last weekend. "}