{"label":" Boombox / Mom + Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18235/homepage_large.95c60e1c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion","title":"Meat and Bone","text":" When the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion returned to the stage two years ago after a sixyear layoff, their mission was philosophically simple, if physically demanding: They just had to live up to their reputation as the perpetually sweatsoaked band that showed the 90s American indie underground how to get down. And as that 2010 reunion tour which coincided with extensive reissues of the band's 90sera catalog continued to rack up positive notices well into 2011, there was little doubt that, even well into their 40s, frontman Jon Spencer, guitarist Judah Bauer, and drummer Russell Simins still possessed the stamina of their twentysomething selves. However, what the Blues Explosion could bring to the table as a rebooted recording act was far less certain. From their 1991 debut through to 1998's Acme, the band had undergone a dramatic evolution from nowaved scuzzpunks to studiosavvy funkensteins, but one that had seemingly run its course as they entered the new millennium: 2002's Plastic Fang saw the band awkwardly try to temper its sound into '70sStones suaveness (tellingly, it's the lone Matador JSBX release to not receive the reissue treatment), while 2004's Damage reverted back to the Acme gameplan of enlisting a supporting cast of hiphop heavyweights (DJ Shadow, Dan the Automator, Chuck D), but in a manner that ultimately normalized the band's sound rather than redefine it. So a new Blues Explosion album in 2012 presents no obvious game plan. Do they make a sleek, radiofriendly bloozerock album in attempt to muscle in on some of them Black Keys bucks? Do they try to score cred points with the Ty Segall set by revisiting their early90s avantnoise roots? Or, given the Blues Explosion's track record of reconstructing black musics ranging from Mississippi Delta blues to Shaftesque funk to NYC rap, do they try to put their own absurdist spin on contemporary R&B? With Meat and Bone, the answer is: none of the above. Which is the best possible outcome, really: The Blues Explosion barrel through the album's 12 tracks as if they have no legacy to uphold, no expectations to live up to, and nothing to lose. Stripped of the cutandpaste studio trickery and celebrity cameos that defined the band's records from the mid90s onward, the selfproduced Meat and Bone boasts no ambition beyond capturing the Blues Explosion in straightup, nobullshit rock'n'soul mode. It essentially provides them with a chance to rewrite their postAcme history, and posit the question: what if the botched backtobasics mission of Plastic Fang was salvaged by the maniacal gusto of Extra Width? If anything's really changed here, it's that Spencer sounds genuinely humbled. In the early 90s, the Blues Explosion were distinguished not only by their fondness for the sort of bluesbased tradition from which so much punk and indie rock tried distance itself, but also by Spencer's penchant for hiphopinspired selfaggrandizement; \"Blues Explosion\" was not only his band's name, but his most utilized lyric, as if he were practising a form of intersong product placement. But with Meat and Bone, pretty much the only \"Blues Explosion\" you get is printed on the album cover, and Spencer's banter here \"Are you ready for your new career? Need a JOB,\" \"I feel like a god/ But I still got a problem paying the rent\" leans toward the selfdeprecating musings of someone who's aware he's no longer the king of the scene. Amid a 90s indie rock environment that frowned upon rockstar posturing, Spencer's shameless shoutouts to himself came off as playfully arrogant, if not outright provocative. But Spencer understands it's the sort of rhetoric that holds less power today, when selfpromotion isn't so much a cheekily effective way to assert a persona as a practical necessity for any aspiring indie act. So on Meat and Bone, the focus is less on theatrical mythmaking than reasserting the band's realdeal bona fides: three men in a room making one big racket. While \"Bag of Bones\" and the Orangetinted \"Get Your Pants Off\" suggest the band haven't unlearned all of their funk finesse, Meat and Bone gradually forsakes its congenial groove for pure smashandgrab insolence, hitting a feverish peak with the New York Dollsdamaged \"Danger\" and the contorted glam boogie of \"Black Thoughts\", on which Spencer seemingly sums up his time out of the spotlight by declaring, \"Without a doubt, this is the worst vacation I have ever been on!\" But what makes Meat and Bone a success despite simmering down into a midtempo murk during its home stretch is that the Blues Explosion never assume their comeback is assured. They're reapplying for the job of America's most raucous, hardestworking rock'n'roll band, and will let the sweat speak for itself.   "}