{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18230/homepage_large.1888867f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Nina Sky","title":"Nicole and Natalie","text":" The R&B twin sister duo Nina Sky are not an internet success story in the traditional sense. Their audience has not grown in size since their 2004 majorlabel debut album sold over 300,000 copies. It has in fact shrunk considerably, so much so that the group's two albums since then 2010's The Other Side and now Nicole and Natalie have been selfreleased. But as their audience has boiled down, Nina Sky have gained the freedom to experiment, to chase their slippery notions of pop music around the globe. In doing so, they threw themselves into strands of pop dancehall, reggaeton, R&B, UK bass that have long interacted with each other. There were various delays and abruptions along the way (especially with their aborted 2007 album Starting Today), but the duo could teach a class on how sustain the integrity of your art after being dropped by a major label. Nicole and Natalie finds Nina Sky dabbling in radioready Europop. It turns out that, too, suits them just fine. The album wedges a midpoint in between the headrush dancepop of Robyn, honorary European Kylie Minogue and the brooding, danceinflected R&B of someone like Dawn Richard. The album's shortcomings aren't rooted in anything aesthetic, but simple math: At eight songs, Nina Sky needed to hit just about every single one out of the park. Unfortunately, their aim isn't always true. Saccharine ballad \"Starting Today\" opens the album in a bizarre place it almost feels as if the tracklist was accidentally flipped. Worse, though, is the song itself. It's meant as an empowering breakup kissoff, but the sentiment is sorely underwritten. It instead comes off like a failed early00s graduation tearjerker. \"Comatose\" (\"Let's keep going till we're comatose\") is similarly thin its twinkling, weightless beat is a waste of progressive Brooklyn producer Brenmar, and neither sister has the voice to carry the song. The same can be said for \"Never Kissed You\", another downtempo track that just drags along. The beat, produced by R&B veteran Salaam Remi, slows down a liberal sample of ESG's \"UFO\", cutting an odd figure at the heart of the album. The highs, though, are impressively high. \"Day Dreaming\" is the slow jam on the album that really works with its aqueous keyboard melody and clattering drums that eventually give way to beatboxing, it evokes Timbaland collaborating with Jim Jonsin (and actually producing a good song). \"Heartbeat\" is the big tensionrelease house tune that makes you imagine a world where Nina Sky still had an open avenue to the radio. Contrary to much of the houseindebted pop with a stranglehold over the airwaves right now, there's no cynical or mechanical enthusiasm in \"Heartbeat\", which breaks itself down before achieving genuine emotional liftoff as the chorus kicks in. \"Everytime\" and especially \"Bright Lights\" are in the same boat: expertly written and produced chart fare with little chance of impacting on a wide level. So it goes. This album may contain the most divisive music that Nina Sky have ever put out. It is, probably by a good margin, the least cool route they've ever taken. But it showcases, above all, the curiosity and adaptability of Nicole and Natalie Albino. Plus, fans of the duo that may be split on this direction can at least find common ground on one unalienable fact: Nina Sky will be on some other shit soon. "}