{"label":" Palilalia","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18284/homepage_large.0ce652d0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Harry Pussy","title":"One Plus One","text":" During their brief, mid1990s career, Miami noise killers Harry Pussy played most often as a trio, with five musicians involved at various points. But their core was always the founding duo of guitarist Bill Orcutt and drummer/singer Adris Hoyos. The former's unmistakable carcrash sound and the latter's primal beats and soulstiffening screams defined the group's destructive aesthetic, leading Douglas Wolk to brand them \"just about the most abrasive band America has ever seen.\" Though they earned that superlative, it's slightly misleading. Because while Harry Pussy could overstuff speakers with bracing din, they also injected space and structure into their racket. At times they sounded more like a punkdamaged free jazz group than an abstract noise machine. That's especially true of early duo recordings by Orcutt and Hoyos, where the pair's intuitive interplay is clearest. When Orcutt pinches out piercing notes and Hoyos responds with snare slaps that propel him into clanging chords, the result is more conversation than confrontation. Orcutt used only duo material to create One Plus One, combing through over 10 hours of Walkmanrecorded sessions. Along the way he grabbed some pieces that had already appeared without titles on early 7\"s, but he edited them anew and gave them all names. That may seem purposefully confusing, but Orcutt's intent was actually genuine. He approached One Plus One as a new release rather than a reissue, selecting the best, most complementary material regardless of whether it had been heard before. It was a wise choice, because One Plus One is betterpaced and more coherent than anything released while Harry Pussy were still together. It still has tons of clamor and dissonance, and even the most welcoming songs challenge ears. But the album flows with a distinct internal logic, as Orcutt and Hoyos revisit sounds, work out ideas, and explore what happens when they use the same moves in different contexts. So when Orcutt repeats a vibrating riff in \"Forming\", it resembles a fractured Link Wray outtake; when he stretches a similar chord into a stoned drag during \"On the Couch\", it evokes the Dead C applying their patented lurch to \"Forming\". Orcutt's sequencing also reveals Harry Pussy as much more than a singlegear noise band. As One Plus One winds its way forward, serious drama mixes with absurd humor, urgent chaos balances joyful abandon, and loose asides lead to intense precision. It all culminates in \"Vigilance\", originally released as a repetitive collage on a 1992 Chocolate Monk cassette. Here, we get the raw source material a surprisingly consistent jam that suggests what Jimi Hendrix might've done if his version of \"The Star Spangled Banner\" had guided the rest of his career. Perhaps fittingly for a band that inverted rock norms, such consistency means that the first Harry Pussy record that works as a conventional album happens to be a posthumous one. The Orcutt/Hoyos duo was also responsible for a previous posthumous release, Let's Build a Pussy, which emerged in a tiny edition not long after the band's 1997 demise. As with One Plus One, Orcutt provides the guiding hand here, but in a much odder way. He isolates a single second of Hoyos' singing from the song \"Ice Cream Man\", then stretches it into an hourplus of abstract sound interrupted only by the ends of four vinyl sides. (Orcutt is credited with \"Mouse,\" i.e., the computer kind, while Hoyos' contribution is listed as \"Mouth.\") The resulting drone holds some fascinating textures and microscopic shifts, but whether you find it worthwhile music or a conceptual curiosity will likely correspond to your opinion of Lou Reed's similarly theoretical Metal Machine Music (as Alan Licht's liner notes point out, all the sides of Let's Build a Pussy are intentionally the same length as the sides of Reed's infamous double LP). For me, there's enough going on inside Let's Build a Pussy to make it a solid drone album worthy of Mego's stamp of reissue approval. But One Plus One is much more exciting, and a better reminder of how vital this unique band continues to be 15 years after it broke up. Add in Orcutt's recent adventures into acoustic guitar clatter, and sometimeguitarist Mark Feehan's solid solo debut, and lately it feels like Harry Pussy never left. "}