{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18242/homepage_large.4ccfff25.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Nihill","title":"Verdonkermaan","text":" I never remember my dreams, good or bad. I know it's not like that for everyone, but it's just how I'm wired. That's why it was such a shock to wake up from a van nap, somewhere along the Georgia interstate, and find my inner eye clouded by crystalclear images of blood, violence, horror, and death instead of the usual bleary shadows. I'd nodded off with Nihill's newest album crackling through my headphones, and as I started awake, was greeted by a chorus of caustic howls still hammering into my eardrums. Lesson learned. Nihill is not a band to turn your back on.  This Dutch outfit may be unfamiliar to most on this side of the pond, but their relentlessly savage take on black metal has been percolating within their native scene since 2007. Verdonkermaan completes a trilogy started with their first release, 2007's Krach, and carried through 2009's Grond, and with this release, the band has fully hit its stride. Opening track \"Vuur: The Deathwind of Resurrection\", is horrific from the onset, bursting straight out the gate with a grating, heavily distorted mélange of black metal and harsh noise. It only gets worse, feeding off its own disgust before pulling the final trigger with one heaving blast of feedback. \"Spiral: The Tail Eater\" is just as uncomfortable a listen: It's the one that gave me nightmares. There is an urgent, disjointed, almost alien quality to the guitar playing. Each hateful riff and mangled chord threatens to collapse into itself, kept dancing on broken glass just above the abyss by nimble fingers and hellish intent. Washes of pure noise spawn from layers upon layers of distorted guitar and bass, propelled by intentionally mechanical drums and narrated by deep, hoarse howls and animalistic snarls.  Comparisons to both recent Blut Aus Nord and vocalist Michiel Eikenaar's other project, Dodecahedron, are apt, but Nihill's commitment to a more feral, unstructured form sets his project with bassist Jelle Agema apart, and gives them room to construct their own identity. If Wold and Sutekh Hexen got their hands on the demos for the last Deathspell Omega LP, they might come up with something close to Verdonkermaan. You've got to hand it to these guys; despite the insanely oversaturated state of modern \"experimental black metal,\" no one else sounds quite like Nihill. The songs are long, at times overwhelmingly so. This isn't funeral doom, or lackadaisical psychedelia; this is a cold, mechanical, brutalizing black metal, created by the kind of minds that surely take pleasure in the suffering its 43 minutes inflict: 10 minutes of punishing black noise is a lot to absorb, and that's just the first song! It works, though. The shortest composition, \"Gnosis Pt. IV\", serves as a respite, ushered in by whispers, as faint metallic clangs and solar winds slowly build beneath them. \"Trauma: Crushing Serpens Mercuriales\" is more understated than its fellows, eschewing the oppressive distortion tactics for a cleaner, simpler approach; still fuzzy, but the tempo plods along until it leaps back into a momentary fever pitch midway through. Nihill like to play with dynamics in an almost malicious way, and keep a listener waiting anxiously for the other jackboot to drop. This sort of challenging, offputting black metal has seen an influx of talent within the past few years, and this Dutch band is no exception. Nihill personify the ageold tenets of no mosh, no core, no trend, and definitely no fun. Difficult, unapproachable, and gleefully abrasive, Verdonkermaan will be an addictive but acquired taste for those who seek out the horrendous, the inhumane, and the fucking brutal. Proceed at your own risk. "}