{"label":" Polo Grounds / RCA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18250/homepage_large.47c808d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"A$AP Mob","title":"Lords Never Worry","text":" A$AP Rocky is no longer just an underground star. His crew, though, has largely stayed in the background as he's ascended into the mainstream. Much of the magnetism of Rocky's early visuals came from the idea that the viewer was getting a look at a movement of culture already in progress, and though Rocky is highly central to that, there's a strength in numbers when it comes to those sorts of moments. This has been the power of Rocky and his A$AP Mob, much like it was the power of Tyler, the Creator and the once nascent Odd Future. But the A$AP Mob is just now getting itself off the ground musically. Its members are highly visible backing up Rocky onstage or in certain corners of the Tumblrsphere, but there is no trove of mixtapes. You will not, in other words, find any A$AP Mob trading cards. That is all beginning to change with Lord$ Never Worry, A$AP Mob's first group album and the crew's first major release since Rocky's debut album. Rocky's presence looms (he appears on six of 18 songs), but this is the comingout party for the guys who have spent the last yearplus in his orbit. The results, though, are extremely mixed the Mob's image emerged fullyformed, but its music is still, at best, rough and unpolished. It is a work of a group of kids who are wellversed in the aesthetics of certain strands of rap, and who have good and nuanced ideas of what they want their own music to sound like. Unfortunately, much of the crew has yet to develop a voice strong enough to prop up these general notions Lord$ Never Worry is an attempt to build a house from the top down. Where the album fails is precisely where A$AP Rocky succeeds, and the unintended side effect of Lord$ Never Worry may be a greater appreciation for what Rocky is able to pull off, even taking his own lackluster contributions into account. Rocky's music is a triumph of taste over skill, but there is a songcraft on LIVELOVEA$AP that just isn't present here. What's left is an album that is long, dark, and ugly, with little to none of the pop crossover or tactful stewing of regional sounds that colored Rocky's debut. Lord$ Never Worry instead uses the framework of producers like Clams Casino, AraabMuzik, and the Mob's own A$AP Ty Beats to trace out a new brand of cold, nihilistic New York rap. It is, though, an idea better in theory than execution. The main issue is that guys like A$AP Nast, Da$h and A$AP Twelvyy who all appear across the tape are gruff shittalkers who are competent on a basic level but largely indistinguished. In a different context, that style can provide an effective counterpoint to Rocky's jiggyness take, for instance, this Funk Flex freestyle. But when pushed to the forefront on songs like \"Full Metal Jacket\" or any of their various solo tracks here, straightforwardness quickly becomes dullness, and \"workmanlike\" begins to take on negative connotations. There is little on Lord$ Never Worry that is illuminating lyrically or stylistically, or doesn't make you wish that the central figures were better or more experienced.  But there is A$AP Ferg, whose three solo tracks go a long way toward invalidating the previous three paragraphs. Ferg's style is similar to Rocky's his flow is hypermusical, largely owing itself to the lithe singsong rapping of Bone ThugsnHarmony. It is a flow that is stilted and offkilter, but delightfully so. His songs are jagged paths of space and tangled words, furious rapping and soulful singing. It is rap music that keeps you on your toes, that dips and swerves around you. He chooses beats that are outlines, then traverses outside the lines or barely colors anything at all he skips and skates all over the mournful, melting strings of \"Persian Wine\" then barks in short jabs throughout the spare, Lugerish rattle of \"Work\". Ferg's voice is undoubtedly unique, and there's something thrilling in that he seemingly doesn't yet have a firm grip on it. Maybe he doesn't even need one he is, quite possibly, figuring out how not to figure it out. Ferg, though, is the exception. The individual members of A$AP Mob have stepped out of the shadows and shown that they have a long way to go before establishing themselves as compelling figures on their own. The A$AP formula is a tricky one the amalgamation of revered and trendy sounds and styles invites each member to walk a very thin tightrope on the way to standing out. Rocky is maybe even better at it than people thought. "}