{"label":" Ruffhouse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18251/homepage_large.42ccd8a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Beanie Sigel","title":"This Time","text":" Beanie Sigel recorded This Time in a matter of weeks, just before reporting for a twoyear prison sentence for tax evasion. The circumstances are sadly familiar to those surrounding his last truly great record, 2005's The B. Coming, which he recorded in the time remaining before he served a year and a day for federal weapons charges. Things weren't exactly rosy for the Philly rapper back then, but in the rearview they look like salad days: He was still affiliated with RocAFella, still privy to a houseproduction roster that included Just Blaze. He hadn't yet lashed out at his former benefactor and label boss JayZ, isolating himself with a series of diss tracks that sounded more like weepy drunk dials than insults. Few have fallen as hard or as far as Beanie. For his longtime fans, then, This Time is poignant, not least of all because Beanie still sounds like himself: one of the hardesthitting, soulful, and eloquent rappers of the last 15 years. The production surrounding him on This Time isn't just cheapsounding, it's unimaginative, rote and generic, like Beanie prepared his verses ahead of time and then spent an afternoon matching them to random instrumentals sitting on his hard drive. He has always quoted Biggie liberally, but some of these raps are more Biggie quote than Beanie verse. It's a rushed affair from start to finish, and it mostly serves to demonstrate the degree to which this great rapper has isolated himself. And yet, his voice cuts through all of this static. Beanie raps with bruising force and sneakily creative cadences, and his verses are things of beauty on paper as well. He writes with hard economy about his two great subjects: poverty and desperation, pointing out to listeners the \"teddy bears where niggas got took out\" on his streets, letting his gaze fall on the old heads \"sitting on crates, taking 40s to the face.\" He once memorably told listeners that he \"ate sleep for dinner\" most nights, and he has always written about scarcity with the vividness of someone who recalls that hunger still: \"He can't hear what they teaching him in school, 'cause his stomach too loud, screaming, 'I need food,'\" he raps on \"Bang Bang Youth\". For a rapper who has always let us into his darkest, innermost thoughts, however, from the harrowing scaredstraight prison classic \"What Ya Life Like\" through \"Feel It in the Air\", This Time is disappointingly skimpy on personal details. He briefly acknowledges the ups and downs of the last few years on the title track \"I went from caviar dreams to champagne sippin'/ Back to Four Lokos/ Four wings fried crispy\" but apart from that, This Time is full of bars that Beanie could have written at any point in the last two or 10 years. Beanie has always threatened your life with more loving detail than just about any other rapper, and for connoisseurs of goonery, there are memorable lines here, like this helpful tutorial he provides on \"Bad Boy Mack\" on how to distinguish him from Craig Mack: \"He put flava in ya ear/ I put a laser to your head.\" \"No Hook\", which nicks its reflexive hook, awkwardly, from the JayZ song of the same name, is firstclass facescrunch music. But to emerge from the hole his career has fallen into, Beanie needed to have dug deeper. This Time mostly serves as a reminder of why he's troubled more than why he's great. "}