{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18268/homepage_large.0fd056d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Black Swans","title":"Occasion For Song","text":" Jerry DeCicca is a Midwestern songwriter the same way that Patterson Hood is a Southern songwriter or that Robin Pecknold is a Pacific Northwest songwriter. Ohio is in the Ohioan's blood, so naturally it's also in his sharp, understated lyrics: the culture, the terrain, the people, the place of the place. Occasion For Song, the latest fulllength by his band the Black Swans, is perhaps his most geographically defined album yet, a long drive through the state's haunted sites. Over there's where a friend died. Years ago he buried his sister's pet crab near that tree. \"Played mailbox baseball three miles from here,\" he sings on \"Where Are You Tonight?\" \"I never got caught but the guilt never disappeared.\" His Ohio is a land of inescapable memories, with a trigger for reminiscence some longpast occasion for song on every street corner. DeCicca is a careful, precise songwriter, but the songs don't necessarily sound written. Instead, they seem like they occurred to him naturally and ineluctably. Perhaps the biggest trigger for him in the entire Buckeye State is a diving board and swimming pool in Portsmouth, down on the Kentucky border. There are likely thousands of pools like it across the country, but this one which appears on the cover of Occasion For Song is special: On a sunny day in the middle of summer 2008, Black Swans violinist Noel Sayre jumped off that diving board and into that pool, and somewhere along the way suffered a massive heart attack. He died a few days later. It's impossible to overstate the impact that occasion has had on the Black Swans' music since then, but DeCicca addresses it directly for the first time on \"Portsmouth, Ohio\". The song is not just a standout on the album, but a standout for 2012. Absenting himself from the narrative in a way that prevents it from being mawkish or maudlin, DeCicca adopts a thirdperson perspective as he relates not just the death but the full life of his friend: \"Nobody's supposed to die three days before the 4th of July, especially while the sun's still in the sky,\" he sings, mustering the necessary stoicism to make it through the line. Even if you never met Sayre, and for that matter even if you've never heard the Black Swans before, it's hard not to be moved by this tune, whose power derives from its measured storytelling and hushed tone.  Occasion For Song, however, is more about DeCicca than Sayre. It's more about living with death than about death, although the Black Swans do pose some disquieting questions about mortality. There are dark threads stitching these songs together, unapologetic admissions of extreme introversions, alienation, aimlessness, resignation. On \"Basket of Light\", he confesses, \"I was hungry, I was dry, I walked a cliff called suicide.\" And that's the leadoff track. The whole thing might be dour and morbid, but DeCicca has lately been indulging his fascination with country music, which has opened his songwriting up considerably over the past few years. It was perhaps most prominent on 2010's Don't Blame the Stars, which had the giddyup of prime Roger Miller. If that song had the jumpy feel of long days on the road, Occasion For Song sounds like even longer days at home.  DeCicca's veer toward country is aided by the Black Swans themselves, who back him with subtlety and sympathy. Chris Forbes' electric guitar adds pointed commentary to \"Basket of Light\" and \"Portsmouth, Ohio\", while Jon Beard's organ adds an undercurrent of concern, reinforcing the sad truth that time cannot be reversed and tragedy cannot be averted. If Occasion For Song is about rising out of a dark period in life, the band makes it clear that music is the impetus for that hesitant recovery, especially on \"Daily Affirmation\", with its agile banjo solo and its bright energy to contrast with darker, quieter songs. For all its grave intimations, Occasion For Song exhibits a true joy in creating and playing music, in finding the right notes and the right words. It's a complex, even contradictory record, not just the Black Swans' best but one of the most incisive and moving mediations on life and the loss of it in recent memory. "}