{"label":" Bella Union","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1694/homepage_large.bdbbb070.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Czars","title":"Sorry I Made You Cry","text":" The Czars have made a career out of crafting beautifully sad indie pop, sophisticated music centered on the downhearted vocals of John Grant. Grant's voice is pure and expressive, and with just the right amount of reverb it can cut straight through your sternum to your heart. In a sense, he's like Patsy Cline in a lower register, the way he allows himself to drift through an arrangement, carried as much by the circumstances of the lyrics as by the melody.Sorry I Made You Cry, the Denver band's fifth album, offers a good explanation of the similarity: Grant and his cohorts are evidently beyond smitten with Cline, as well as other forlorn country lasses like Connie Francis and Brenda Lee. A collection of covers recorded mostly for Bsides and compilations, as well as a few new tracks, Sorry features versions of three songs popularized by Cline out of its 11 cuts, with a nod each to Francis and Lee. The strongest critique you can level at this album is that it's relentlessly dour, playing each song for maximum sadness. Given the disparate recording dates, that's hardly a crime, just an unfortunate coincidence. When recording new tracks they might have taken pacing into account and put down one uptempo song. The most aggressively depressive song here is a nearly nineminute version of Rodgers & Hart's \"My Funny Valentine\" that wallows in a crawling tempo and features a downright jarring synth interlude that sounds like it wandered in from a late70s Vangelis album. Webb Pierce's \"Leavin' on Your Mind\" (Cline's version seems to be the touchstone) and Gene DePaul's \"You Don't Know What Love Is\" (the Chet Atkins take is the closest forebear to this version) both sound nice, but sequencing them at 6 and 7 with their ultraslow, ultrasparse arrangements causes the middle of the record to sag a bit. More fun is the excellent version of Brenda Lee's \"I'm Sorry\". With just a strumming acoustic guitar providing rhythm, Grant and a searching pedal steel glide through the song's Western swing melody with amazing grace. The solo acoustic take on Cline's \"I Fall to Pieces\" works on the pure strength of Grant's voice, while he seems to really enjoy the iffy sexuality his delivery imparts to the unchanged lyrics of Connie Francis's \"Where the Boys Are\" (which, after all, was written by a man in the first place). The best thing here, though, is the cover of Abba's \"Angel Eyes\", which carries a rare lightness in its step and cuts straight to the poignancy of the lyrical tale noticing an old lover using the same old moves on someone else. Taken as an island, each song on here is very affecting, including the opening cover of Nina Simone's daunting \"Black Is the Color\", which starts with a repeating trumpet and piano figure and gives way to a vocal so beautiful that the song's racially loaded implications melt away. Its heaviness is balanced on the other end by a spacey version of Tim Buckley's \"Song to the Siren\", replete with echoing slide guitar and gentle shaker rhythms. As individually wonderful as some of these versions are, though, it's a bit much to take at once, making this a collection best taken in small bites. "}