{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18298/homepage_large.7c40627e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Lightning Bolt","title":"Oblivion Hunter EP","text":" The first time you hear Lightning Bolt's music, it doesn't hit you as \"complex\": it overwhelms. Brian Gibson's bass and Brian Chippendale's drums lash out in such a dizzying flurry that there’s barely time to sort out what’s happening in one track before they’ve moved on to the next. Their music is something like an auditory version of Chippendale's visual art. His comics, like Ninja and Maggots, assault the eye with pages full of scratchycute grotesqueries. Adjust to their overcranked wavelength, and it becomes clear that there's not only narrative structure underneath all that visual noise but new ways of reading to be learned.  Lightning Bolt's music has grown gotten tighter and brawnier over the years, from the murky rawness of their 1999 selftitled debut to the mock metal heroics of 2009's Earthly Delights, and a big part of why they've become a festival draw. Their balance between traditional heaviness and crazed time signatures gets even regulation rock dudes sloshing warm beer on each other. As awesome as that evolution's been, the alienating and willfully abrasive sides of Lightning Bolt sometimes get the short shrift when people talk about them like they're mainly a jackhammer live unit that also happens to put out records. Oblivion Hunter, an EP of tracks recorded in 2008 that's long enough to pass as an album, is thrilling, irritating, and ecstatic in equal measure, and it offers a better summation of all the band's strengths than their last few releases. While Oblivion Hunter doesn't contain the onegutpunchafteranother focus of Earthly Delights or the brainscrambling sonic abundance of 2005's Hypermagic Mountain, it also lets the band stretch out, mess around, have fun, and chase solos past the point of common sense. \"Fly Fucker Fly\" might be the closest the band has ever come to writing a pop song, complete with a breathcatching bridge and triumphant outro, though it's still suitably gnarly. If recent LB albums have pushed the intricacy and heaviness of their aesthetic to the limit, here they sound relaxed, goofy, even catchy. Which isn't to say they're not also going to test the patience of the less noiseinclined, or that Chippendale's drums aren't still astonishing examples of how to keep things raw and virtuosic at the same time. \"Baron Wasteland\" plays like a band jamming out a rock equivalent to Alec Empire circa The Destroyer, with metallic breakbeats whizzing by at high speed while some hellish feedback attempts to eat them up. Still, \"World Wobbly Wide\" is really the only track here that stands to test the patience of Lightning Bolt's most committed fans. It's 13 minutes of blownout assault, climaxing with a blast that just goes on and on until it starts to sound less like a rock song and more like a smoke alarm fed through a couple of bad distortion pedals.. Elsewhere, the duo indulge a mischievous streak. The singsong harmonizing between Chippendale's yelps and Brian Gibson's noodling, the all blownout bass, and the extreme fingertapping sound like the work of two friends trying to oneup each other. After so many years, albums, and shows, Lightning Bolt have grown into one of the fiercest bands on the planet. But the looseness of Oblivion Hunter is a nice reminder that the core of their appeal isn't so much that they're pushing their sound into new places, but that they're two guys who can't hide how happy they are that they get to spend their lives making this kind of a racket. "}