{"label":" Funfundvierzig","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1696/homepage_large.a552ed08.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Holger Czukay / U-She","title":"The New Millennium","text":" Holger Czukay was born in 1938 and studied music from a very young age. He had initially entertained dreams of being a classical composer and conductor, but when his ideas brushed up against an academy who hadn't come to grips with musique concrete (much less rock and roll), his plans changed, and soon he found himself under one of the few sympathetic souls in new music, Karlheinz Stockhausen. That's an understatement, of course, as Stockhausen was arguably the highest figure in modern classical music beginning from the 1950s and to now, and his work looms large over any experimental music being made during the time young Czukay would have been with him be it classical, rock or otherwise.During the mid60s, Czukay also taught composition; one of his students was an even younger Michael Karoli, and through him, Czukay was introduced to the world of rock via The Beatles and The Velvet Underground. He then teamed up with fellow Stockhausen associate Irmin Schmidt, a jazz drummer called Jaki and an American street poet of some esteem. The rest is history.Oh, but then there was the part about how Czukay was one of the first people to sample, and about how his solo music of the late 60s is among is some of the most groundbreaking in all of electronic music. And by the way, he's still pushing forward in his own music, turning out better beats and more interesting textures than most DJs half (or even a third) his age. If this sounds like an infomercial, it's only to set up the intimidating backlog of history one might consider when approaching a new Czukay record. There, now it's your turn to carry the baggage.Luckily, Czukay's music is fresh enough that you don't have to remember the good old days to appreciate it. Unlike all but the most tirelessly devoted classical alchemists (sorry Kraftwerk), this man at 65 is pressing on like someone without the slightest care for pacing or an idea of how people his age are supposed to drift away. The New Millennium (despite library fines on the title) is his latest collaboration with the enigmatic, tonebedamned seductress UShe or as Czukay's website about her says, \"under construction.\" It's a record that pulls out many of the composer's familiar ideas, but is also admirably modern almost effortlessly so. Ultimately, he hasn't slowed down, and that's good news.Since The New Millennium begins with a piece called \"Le Secondaire\" (a remix of an older Czukay tune called \"La Premiere\") built out of bits of Can's \"Chain Reaction\", you'd be forgiven for thinking he was attempting to pillage his back catalog for ideas. In a way, maybe he was, but since he's been putting samples to good use for decades, no one should be shocked that he's able to make some pretty captivating house out of that stuff now. UShe's French vocals fight off a whole cast of other voices spouting things in varied speeds, and outoftime drum machine breaks punctuate the beat where most dance producers would patch in a cymbal swell. Likewise, on \"Rosebud\", the holy house bass drum drafts no snare to back it up and only a chorus of UShe and Sinai fanfares to give it color. Czukay's version of dance music is just as tribal as it ever was, but these days his flair for pristine production and immaculately placed, everchanging samples that make up the real heart of his music are the marks of a master.Not every tune is there for the grinding: \"Cinderella\" begins with a frantic flurry of triangle and church bells with accented bass notes in the piano. Before long, the ensemble gives way to cavernous echo and fidgety tictac percussion, and just as suddenly, the \"beat\" comes back with electro congas and arthouse horror asides from UShe. In truth, her contributions may not be everyone's idea of interesting, but in the context of these pieces she actually manages to tie otherwise unconnected sections together, forging an unlikely \"pop\" out of \"avantgarde.\"Oddly enough, the only time this doesn't really work is on the de facto pop song of the bunch, \"Millennium\". It isn't so much that UShe wavers ever so slightly with the tune so much as Czukay's arrangement of oboes and New Age synth never manage to crash the party of big fat 80s drums. This is a shame, too, because \"Millennium\" is exactly the kind of song Can made work think \"Moonshake\" with more than one good chord change.\"Supernova\" features Czukay's own spokenword vocals over still more restless, precision jitterhouse. I hear samples of strange Eastern stringed instruments, what sounds like a chamber ensemble of saws and cellos, several thousand percussion instruments that go \"ping,\" and oddly timed handclaps and onemeasure organ solos. \"Metropolis\" begins with a loop of flute, succeeding to bassoon and then onto spooky reverb and atonal guitar mutterings. Throughout The New Millennium, the details impress and their integration into an interesting whole seals the deal and despite all of this, it's still UShe's relatively untouched vocals that seem most out of place.The first time I listened to this album, I was a little disappointed that Czukay's drum sounds seemed a tad dated, as if from the notsodistant past. However, those kinds of worries could take a backseat the more I concentrated on the number of other things happening in his pieces. Obviously, if you're looking for something to spin during a mix, The New Millennium might not be the best choice at least at first. Still, Czukay's been called \"subversive\" before, and under the right circumstances, I could see him infiltrating a whole new academy.  "}