{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18312/homepage_large.1e4f50d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Ultraísta","title":"Ultraísta","text":" After more than 15 years as a producer with some of music's biggest names, Nigel Godrich has been working with some comparative unknowns in 2012. Earlier this year, he lent his distinctive touch to Brooklyn indie outfit Here We Go Magic's third album, A Different Ship; now comes the debut album from a new band of Godrich's called Ultraísta. The group consists of Godrich and Los Angelesbased producer/drummer Joey Waronker, who've worked together on and off since Beck's 1998 album Mutations, including time in the Thom Yorke's side project Atoms for Peace. Vocalist Laura Bettinson, whom they recruited after seeing a loopheavy performance from her electronic pop project Dimbleby & Capper, rounds out the band. Those with knowledge of these artists' CVs won't have much trouble hearing their individual contributions to Ultraísta's smooth, krautrockindebted synth pop. Waronker's tumbling rhythms are central, while Bettinson's layered vocals weave easily through and around the viscous synths. But it's ultimately Godrich's show, as Ultraísta's electronic squiggles and tight production bring to mind his work on Yorke's own solo set, 2006's The Eraser. Yorke's album had a distinctly gloomy, threatening tone, and Ultraísta feels similarly hermetic and overcast.  Over the course of the record, Ultraísta's atmospheric consistency turns out to be its biggest flaw. Almost every track adheres to the same formula: a complicated drum pattern to open followed by some synths or treated piano and then by Bettinson's voice, which is progressively looped and layered until the track's end. Once you've heard one of these songs, you've heard the entire record. And the dullness is driven home by Bettinson's voice, which is competent but lacks distinctiveness. Here and there she shows some versatility, like when she mixes a whisper with a holler on \"Bad Insect\" and conveys palpable desperation through on \"Our Song\". But generally, her smoky vocals sound cutandpasted from one of those chillout compilations that's clogged up many a usedCD music store section. She's not really saying much lyrically, either; the album's lyrics were collaboratively written by the trio, and as such they possess a factorychurned facelessness, consisting mostly of clichéd imagery and weightless invocations of passion. To focus too much on Ultraísta's words, however, is missing the point. The group's clearly more concerned with making great sounds and creating a distinctive vibe than they are with making lasting statements. Taking that into consideration, Ultraísta succeeds on its own lowstakes terms. But while listening to it, I couldn't help but think about another album from a side project spawned by a highprofile British musician this year's >>, from Portishead member Geoff Barrow's knotty excercise in rockdeconstruction, Beak>. On that album, there's a genuine sense of discovery and adventurousness, a feeling of purpose that transcends the notion of a spacefilling side project. Compare this with Godrich, talking recently to Consequence of Sound on Ultraísta's modest aims: \"We've got a reason to be here and essentially it's just the entertainment and the fun of being able to do this it's a luxury, really. I mean I could be working at a fucking dry cleaners, you know what I mean?\" From this perspective, the question with Ultraísta isn't so much \"Why?\" as it is \"Why not?\" "}