{"label":" Odd Future","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18323/homepage_large.8dabae86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Steven Hyden","artist":"Trash Talk","title":"119","text":" Trash Talk's 119 comes with a narrative that's as old as the dichotomy between the mainstream and the underground. The ferocious Sacramento hardcore band rose to national prominence on the strength of its last two records 2010's Eyes & Nines and 2011's Awake EP which shored up underground punk tradition with the straightforward evangelism of bareknuckle Luddites. Trash Talk didn't push the hardcore envelope, and that was the point: their job was to keep the flame going by spitting gasoline into its dying embers. Trash Talk's new album, 119, arrives courtesy of Odd Future Records, the Sonydistributed label founded by the controversial L.A. rap collective. The association with Odd Future suits Trash Talk's hyperaggressive, hyperangry, hypermale music, as demonstrated by how naturally the cameos by Tyler, the Creator and Hodgy Beats are integrated into the band's severe aesthetic on 119's brattiest cut, \"Blossom & Burn\". But the majorlabel relationship will likely make 119 questionable in some circles, since staunch anticorporatism is one of the fundamental tenets of the genre. On top of that, Trash Talk are now writing discernibly catchy choruses (and even bridges!). You could imagine a slightly adventurous modern rock station spinning the boisterously sullen \"F.E.B.N.\" or the heavy riffing \"Apathy\" without turning off too many listeners. So, does that make 119 Trash Talk's big sellout move? Not exactly. Clocking in at a relatively hefty 22 minutes, 119 is bloated to Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness levels compared with the breathtaking brevity of past Trash Talk records it's just one song and four minutes shorter than Eyes & Nines and Awake combined but it's still a long way from being their Dookie or Smash. Nevertheless, 119 feels longer than its running time, since Trash Talk have slowed down the song tempos and deepened the grooves. As hinted on the doomy Eyes standout \"Hash Wednesday\", Trash Talk suggest on 119 that they might be a stealth stoner metal outfit who only now are starting to let the cannabis fully infiltrate their music. Rather than stampeding recklessly forward on the heels of cataclysmic frontman Lee Spielman, Trash Talk have redirected their energy into mountainous, piledriving riffs that hit with a lowdown, deliberate force. At 2:14, \"Reasons\" is one of the album's epics, with Spielman's rants about being surrounded by idiots and fools shooting out like hot lava from a surly volcanic base of Melvinsstyle rumbling. On \"Dogman\", Trash Talk venture into metaltinged psychedelia, even indulging in some dissonant almostguitar soloing in the song's back half. Those who wanted Trash Talk to stick with the \"loud fast rules\" formula will be disappointed by tracks like \"Thanks, But No Thanks\", which blasts off at a pulverizing pace before returning to the shirtless caveman stomp that dominates 119. But while Trash Talk are no longer standardbearers for purist underground punk, they aren't worldconquerors yet either. Whatever direction this band heads in next, 119 will likely be seen as a transitional LP. In the meantime, they're gathering some very heavy artillery. "}