{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18333/homepage_large.8ed6253a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"DJ Shadow","title":"Total Breakdown: Hidden Transmissions From The MPC Era, 1992-1996","text":" Back in 2008, DJ Shadow put out the exhaustive earlydays document The 4Track Era, a collection of remixes, rarities, and radio DJ sets that stands as one of the most fascinating looks into a developing artist's formative sensibility. But there's a reason its chronology cuts off when it does, round about 1992: That particular 4track era came to a decisive close once Josh Davis' upgraded budget led him to jump ahead of the sampling technology curve and forgo the triedandtrue SP1200 for the advanced capabilities of the Akai MPC60 MkII. So while DJ Shadow was developing his style and production technique, getting his foot in the door with labels like Mo' Wax, and cutting his teeth on production jobs for Blackalicious, he was also exploring the possibilities of a machine that was still a few years away from becoming a hiphop industry standard. The machine in question would eventually be the conduit through which he created the entirety of Endtroducing….., so it's safe to say he got the hang of it. But Shadow was and remains something of a perfectionist, and it's worth asking whether his early experiments and castoffs are worth hearing even if they're not quite perfect enough. Worth hearing? Probably, but not entirely worth flipping out over. Total Breakdown: Hidden Transmissions from the MPC Era, 19921996 is, if anything, an archiveplundering curiosity that feels more like the underlying woodshedding sessions of Shadow's career than a missing piece of it. Expecting anything on the order of \"In/Flux\" or \"Organ Donor\" or his UNKLE work is a good way to set yourself up for disappointment these are sketches, not lost classics. Shadow's dive into his own personal DAT vaults dredged up hundreds of tapes, a little over an hour's worth of which makes it here; since narrowing it down that much means that the best of the rest are decent at most, this is probably the closest you'll get to hearing him freely dink around with the sampler he'd eventually wield like a scalpel. The base appeal here is to hear him piece together the building blocks mostly some deceptively simple drum breaks and catch him leaning towards ideas he'd later expand on, stuff that's more interesting for what it would later become than what it initially was. The most recognizable example is a track dubbed \"Aye\", which rides on the thumb piano riff he'd later use for The Private Press highlight \"Giving Up the Ghost\" but without that track's masterful slow build or its crashing waves of percussive buildups and breakdowns. As it is here, it's a couple of minutes' worth of primordial prototriphop built around a heavy, straightahead, nononsense break that reveals his ear for beats at their most unadorned and immediate though the way he chops the beat up every few bars and incorporates a floaty little psychedelicsoul guitar riff here and there hints at more familiar things to come. Other cuts like \"Vee in Detroit\", \"Freddi's Popcorn\", and \"Dreams of a Piece\" are little more than the sum of their drums, heavyhitting backbeats that never got significantly built upon but would've probably sounded monstrous with a little more orchestration. There's not a lot of dynamism here, and the bulk of the tracks or at least the ones below the threeminute mark start out as intriguing loops that eventually wear out their welcome in the process of going nowhere special. And yet it isn't hard to tell that Shadow was on to something, mastering the MPC's capabilities of assembling and accommodating increasingly complex drum patterns while picking up a few characteristic melodic flourishes along the way. \"Fast Rap Fanfare\" is one of the first things he did on the MPC, and one of the longer excursions on this collection, sixplus minutes of an enthusiastic maniac testing out his new toy like a tweaker with a shiny Countach, 100 miles of straightaway and no traffic in sight. It starts out as a simple loop based around the kind of uptempo break early90s Rakim did damage over, but soon enough it starts to break down into the occasional welltimed roll or chop, early feints at the Buddy Rich fusillades that would dictate the crescendos of cuts like \"Building Steam With a Grain of Salt\" and \"Napalm Brain/Scatter Brain\" some four years later. (Shame about the horns, which sound like Pete Rock's brass if it had the soul of a car alarm.) His tendency to incorporate the dustier, trippier corners of rock, funk and soul jazz crops up in the margins of otherwisesimple demos like \"Mystical With Solo\", \"Affectations\", and \"Mellow But Chunky\". And a handful of demo tracks intended for an aborted EP with Gift of Gab \"Movin' On\" and its Attack of the 50Foot Ziggy Modeliste stomp, the gooey funk of \"Total Breakdown\", the intense symphonic soul of \"Perilous Journey\" and the \"Six Days\" prototype \"Swimming Upstream\" work well as instrumentals in their own right, with nothing else that needs to be added but a voice. Anyone who listens to this now might think there's something a bit lacking, but anyone who listened to it then would be justifiably amped to hear what this Shadow kid would come up with next. "}