{"label":" Editions Mego","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18332/homepage_large.0224eb6d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Mark Fell","title":"Sentielle Objectif Actualité","text":" Mark Fell is like a calculus teacher. As one half of the experimental duo SND and more so under his own name, he conducts unapologetic beat experiments. And like a math instructor, he's interested in process, in showing your work, in inputs and outputs. Fell's been more prolific under his own name than as a member of SND; Sentielle Objectif Actualité is a revision of three 12\"s he released this year as Sensate Focus, one of which was already a reworking of a house thumper he recorded with Terre Thaemlitz. Ahem: \"In calculus...the derivative is a measure of how a function changes as its input changes.\" Those Sensate Focus singles (whose titles 10, 5, 3.33333333333333333 correspond to an energy measurement for the latent heat fusion of water, though I've no idea exactly what that means, or if this is a coincidence) are the most straightforward, emotionally resonant pieces Fell's ever recorded. They look back to the early 90s, when house was mingling with techno, and the result was acerbic, concrete soul. The Editions Mego page for Sentielle offers \"Recommended contextual materials\" from this era (an obscure MK remix of Chez Damier and Choo Ables' \"Hard to Get\"). I like to think Fell had to be talked out of labeling these selections \"homework.\" That same Editions Mego page also offers a roadmap for heroic DJs. Show your work for full credit: \"Track 4, 128 bpm with 60 units each lasting 117.19ms, with inserted pauses of between 4 and 80 units.\" You get the idea: Sentielle is heady stuff. Like previous albums UL8 and especially the fantastic Multistability, it's a parched, bonepale collection of rhythms and counterrhythms. What's frightening isn't that it's more extreme than its predecessors; it's that Sentielle apparently represents Fell's vision of trancelike, highly emotive dance music. Fell's work is intense and reptilian, nonconfrontational in the same way that the Cold War was really just scientists thousands of miles apart hovering over buttons; a show of brutality would humanize the battle. Mathematical analogies and explanations help me understand why a composer as talented as Fell would make this music, but they're not necessary to enjoy it. It's best not to focus on the calculations, to stop trying to discern all of the different rhythmic elements and let them wash over you. Sentielle is mostly these rhythms, pointillist attacks so detailed they sound random, especially at first, though they surely aren't. What sets Sentielle apart amongst Fell's work is the residual synth pools that tremble like oil on water. They are sparse and alien, but they reflect light in a way their host matter can't. Fell's synths and snatches of melody sound imperfect set against his rhythms, a contrast stark enough that Sentielle acquires a singular mood. It sounds like a distant, longlost uncle to the slappy, harsh surfaces turned out by younger artists like Jam City and Girl Unit. Sentielle is a study in deprivation, a reminder that psychedelic experiences can occur while totally sober if you deny yourself food, or rest. Fell denies us much of what we expect from dance music: a sense of journey, a traceable rhythm, a defined purpose or utility. In doing so, and in offering us oases of melody, he approaches trance from the complete opposite direction. You can still burrow down, nod out, ask how many stars are in the sky; unlike most trance music, Sentielle will encourage you to count. "}