{"label":" Candlelight","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18337/homepage_large.121732aa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Kelly","artist":"Winterfylleth","title":"The Threnody of Triumph","text":" The state of British black metal has always been a bit of a sore spot for folks across the pond. After NewcastleuponTyne's most famous export, Venom, christened the genre and helped to inspire a horde of Scandinavian innovators, England's contributions to the black arts were few and far between. In the mid1990s, Cradle of Filth's first few albums were a rare spark that illuminated the fog for a few years, but Dani Filth and company dimmed into submediocrity. The blackened grind duo Anaal Nathrakh and experimental armorclad group the Meads of Asphodel have been continuing bright spots and the progressive crew Akercocke were solid enough, but only in more recent years has metal's spiritual homeland given rise to a new crop of interesting, engaging, and innovative bands that have taken black metal by the horns and twisted until it suited them. Winterfylleth's first album was released on Profound Lore back in 2008, the same year that saw fellow UK acts Caïna, Wodensthrone, Fen, Oakenshield, and A Forest of Stars release either demos, debuts, or acclaimed albums. Four years down the line, what was once viewed as an anomaly is now the norm. British black metal is healthier than ever, bolstered by the efforts of the aforementioned bands as well as upstarts like White Medal, Axnaar, Vanyar, Axis of Light, and Wóddréa Mylenstede, and Winterfylleth have emerged as one of its most promising exports. Their pagan roots tie them to bands like Forefather, Symbel, and Old Corpse Road, who have also embraced their nation's history (Forefather dub themselves \"AngoSaxon Metal\") and, looking even further back, Skyclad and BalSagoth, two of the first British bands to meld traditional folk elements into otherwise brutal music. Their proudly selfdescribed \"English Heritage Black Metal\" has grown and matured since that first record and its successor, 2010's The Mercian Sphere, and their third fulllength sees them back in fighting shape. Winterfylleth's take on black metal is as cold as any Norwegian son's, but they remain unafraid to incorporate both heathen accents and condensed postrock melodies and run it all through a decidedly English filter. The Threnody of Triumph blows in with the icy \"A Thousand Winters\", blasting straight into a flurry of fairly straightforward black metal that slips into a clean, glistening melody halfway through. The gentle, yearning folk of interlude \"ÆfterieldFréon\" is heartbreaking in its sparse, simple beauty, and leads into the scathing, uptempo \"A Memorial\". Both \"The Swart Raven\" and \"The Glorious Plain\" juxtapose bleak, biting tremolo with sections of a rousing, chanted chorus stretched across an acoustic skeleton, one of Winterfylleth's favorite (and most pompous) devices. It works here, though, and its various appearances over the course of the record are more charming than eyerollinducing. Dark romanticism permeates the album's lyrics and atmosphere, and the everpresent blastbeats rumbling in the depths provide a solid anchor for the more fanciful moments. \"The Fate of Souls After Death\" is possessed of a solid BurzummeetsDissection vibe, only showing its pagan colors near the end with a nimble little riff that serves as a nice precursor to \"Home Is Behind\"'s wordless and almost classicalsounding acoustic tune. The title track and album closer aims high, and soars higher. Epic in scale and grandiose in execution, \"The Threnody of Triumph\" sounds less like a lament than a battle cry. The buildup and payoff from 3:203:49 alone makes this album worth checking out, to say nothing of the dynamic interplay within the song itself and its lush, mellow closing moments. But the album flows together beautifully, and is not meant to be bitten off in iPodfriendly pieces. It's the rare record that's worth an unbroken hour of your time: Winterfylleth have outdone themselves once again, writing a collection as epic as the sweep of history and memories of grand old Albion that inspire their songs. "}