{"label":" Cold Sides","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1701/homepage_large.e7b6daa5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Cold Sides","title":"Corrugated Sibilants EP","text":" The following is an excerpt from the 2033 novel Super Chunks and Maudlin Beats: The Chapel Hill Story, a narrative chronicling the rise and fall of arguably one of the most productive underground music scenes of the early 21st Century. The chapter in question deals specifically with one of the major catalysts of the college town's reemergence into the national/international eye Cold Sides' selfproduced EP, Corrugated Sibilants.CHAPTER 3.: WARM HEARTS AND COLD SIDES Long before the group reached the Rush or Journey level of excess that would plague them in their years of highest fiscal yet lowest artistic success, Cold Sides was simply a rhythmdriven four piece, the phoenix from the ashes of a previous Polvoinfluenced three man incarnation. The two remaining members of that original lineup, Zeke Graves (exThree Stigmata) and Robert Biggers (exWhite Octave), would prove to be the backbone of this fleshed out Cold Sides, set to movement by the sheer muscle of newcomers Neill Prewitt on bass guitar and Dave Cantwell on drums. Though it's difficult to separate fact from fiction referring to the group's Zeppelinesque tour story involving a pound of peanut butter, one lightbulb, and an Asianmasseuse one thing that can certainly be confirmed upon listening to Corrugated Sibilants is how aware the group was of their contemporaries, and conversely how eager they were to surpass them. It would be easy to find fault with the group if they had simply copied a progression of chords from obvious influences like Television, Mission of Burma or The Fall to name a few, but this would be an unfair and ill informed judgment to level at a band who chose to follow in the spirit of those greats, and not in the footsteps. \"Stretched\" begins with a deceptively upbeat guitar surge that's quickly bent over the knee of No Wave into the angular and detuned melody that follows the song until its finale. A constant and prominent bass line successfully nurtures a call and response between geminating guitars throughout the track, a sound that alternately engages both overpowering hubris and fragile timidity. The dueling sounds ultimately fall prey to the remark of the other though, leaving the sturdy rhythm to force the song forward into a quiet electric diminuendo. Perhaps bolstered by southernpride, and the paradoxically antifoppish attitude of postpunk, \"Field Recorder\" was a warm gun pointed directly at nearby eastcoast neighbors Fugazi, and the entirety of the Dischord family. Singing that he's \"just an instrument,\" Zeke makes more than a simple lyrical reference to the above seminal band, outfitting a Red Medicine beat over the din of industrial drones, before a skronking James Chance sax takes the mantle with disabling atonal swarms of noise. An example of how painfully aware the quartet was of their time in aural history, the song is actually the sound of a glorious metamusic, the type that only bored exrecord clerks who've absorbed countless hours of good music can produce well if at all. Finding meaning in the space between notes, \"No Recognition\" is an exercise in extended and often homemade instrumental techniques as well as the mathyart of the stop/start. Jading a normal poptune with brandished guitars, the track exhibits a jangling chorus that eventually subsides into a sparse bridge, the most vacant moment to be found on the minialbum. Eventually this empty space is taken up by humbled tones that signal the return of the dark and repetitive bass line, the portent to the track's inevitable and regrettable end. The final track \"Interiors\" endows its content with just that, as reverberating crashes and pulses establish a vast roomtone that is reinforced exponentially by the acrosstheroomandphonedin vocals of the chorus, the catchy \"cacacalcalculate interiors.\" From this, a foreign guitar line evolves becoming mated with a simple updown beat that slowly growls its way through to one last percussive thrust signaling the song's end. A drop in the commercial and creative bucket of Cold Sides body of work, Corrugated Sibilants forebode the talent of what is now acknowledged to be one of the best bands to arise from the 00s Chapel Hill musicscene with, of course, the exception being the 2009 Research Triangle Parksponsored genetic reformation of the originalBeatles lineup circa 1967. That said, it's important to understand that interest in this EP is not founded on the notion that it captures deified brilliance or even unheralded genius, but on how well it archives the sound of a band on the brink of all of that. Though utterly enjoyable in its own right, Corrugated Sibilants banks on those unappreciated and valid enjoyments that antedate the true prize such as the anticipation involved in cooking one's own food, or the feeling one gets watching a girlfriend or boyfriend get undressed before imminent coitus. Stated in this manner, it's hopefully not difficult to understand the baited breath with which people waited for the release of Cold Sides' following fulllength, and the uproar that it fatefully incited. "}