{"label":" Maybach","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18346/homepage_large.fa89e57f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Drake","artist":"Gunplay","title":"601 & Snort","text":" Back when major label hiphop CDs were released with greater frequency, the most common criticisms were their length and inconsistency. With Illmatic as a guiding light, and 2xCDs generally regarded as little more than a stunt to double soundscan counts or overreach artistically, critics lamented the lack of editing and conceptual cohesion of many of the most interesting albums of hiphop's commercial golden age. Gunplay's latest mixtape, 601 & Snort presumably retitled from 106 & Snort due to potential legal similarities to the BET television program is proof that this isn't always an ideal. There's nothing on 601 & Snort to complain about, but it feels like a shadow of a great record, a stopgap whose place in history will largely be determined by what happens next in Gunplay's career. Gunplay is, unquestionably, one of the most vibrant and entertaining personalities in hiphop, a throwback to a time when skilled, animated rappers like Busta Rhymes and Redman ruled the airwaves; it's difficult to understand why isn't already in deodorant commercials or stoner movies. (Luckily, he is in hilarious promotional videos that give an idea of the his star power.) But while some were aware of the rapper's considerable strengths prior, it was Gunplay's guest spot on Kendrick Lamar's \"Cartoon & Cereal\" that seemed to push him into the national media spotlight. Where he had previously been a hero to roughneck rap connoisseurs, thanks to his explosive turns on \"Mask On\" and \"Rollin\", his move to the attention of bloggers and label heads (he was signed to Def Jam earlier this year) has been marked by a stylistic shift. Where last year he ripped across contemporarysounding Luger tracks, this year he's moved on to freestyling over older 90s production: RZA beats, Pimp C beats, the \"Deep Cover\" instrumental. Luckily, Gunplay always sounds engaging, even when he doesn't sound particularly focused. When he snaps into a wellwritten verse, it goes from being a fun tape to transcendent. 601 & Snort feels slight because it contains only one true moment like this: \"Bible on the Dash\", a freestyle over a Morris Brothersproduced Shy Glizzy song called \"Southside\". The track finds Gunplay locked in: \"I asked the pastor, 'what's the fastest way to heaven for a bastard with a tarnished past, give me an honest answer?/ With all this Hannah Montana without the Arm & Hammer am I gonna get the slammer or the casket?'\" But the bulk of the tape is less a collection of songs than wellcurated beat tape of oneoff freestyles, a generic Rick Ross collaboration, and an artist hinting at what more he could accomplish given the right situation and motivation. Maybe Gunplay is one of the few rappers who understands that just spewing out releases, his best tracks mixed amongst subpar collaborations and halfhearted efforts, isn't an ideal marketing strategy for all artists, and we'll get a diverse, 21track monster of a Def Jam LP by yearend. In that case, 601 & Snort feels like a pretty decent warmup, a stopgap measure to keep us entertained and anticipating. On the other hand, the considerable delays, nonreleases (what happened to Bogota?), and light catalog of fullon 2012 songs worth celebrating aren't positive signs. These records will only maintain buzz for a limited time. A solid project looks pretty vital right now.  "}