{"label":" Brassland","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18371/homepage_large.a3bcfdfb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Laura Snapes","artist":"Buke and Gase","title":"Function Falls","text":" It makes perfect sense that Hudson, NY's Buke and Gase chose Wired to host a stream of their new EP, Function Falls, even though as gaseist Aron Sanchez explained to the tech magazine, \"Nothing [on it] was created in the computer.\" I visited the band's studio in the Red Hook neighborhood last spring, and it was the closest I'd come to a physics lab since leaving school; a basement full of what Sanchez termed \"cannibalized\" instruments, shedding or absorbing new components on their path to becoming something else entirely. As Joshua Love explained in his review of their debut fulllength, 2010's Riposte (made under a different spelling of their name), their inventing new instruments arose from necessity; finding one that would accommodate Arone Dyer's carpal tunnel syndrome, and making two people sound like a full band. Buke and Gase solved musical problems using Sanchez' background in making mad instruments for the Blue Man Group and Dyer's experience building bikes. With such a bold selfsufficient streak, it's not surprising to know that their last single, May's \"Hiccup\", was released in \"sympathy\" with the Occupy movement. Solution found, on this new EP (there's a fulllength to follow early next year), Sanchez and Dyer set about executing control experiments, working within limitations that unexpectedly prove both fruitful and poignant for a band whose previous raison d'être had been making maximalism from within minimalist confines. Function Falls came about when Radiolab asked the band to cover New Order's \"Blue Monday\" for a compilation, which led Sanchez and Dyer into trying to write a song a day for a week. Their cover of the dance staple sounds as though it predates the original made in the bracing, clanking austerity of the industrial age rather than the burgeoning glamor of the early 1980s and the classic's insistent synthesizer line proves the perfect mettle for Sanchez's gase (a guitar strung with bass strings). Those steady, tugged bass parts underpin the other three songs here, a far cry from the bungeeing bottomend bounce that defined Riposte and 2008's mini album, +/. Instead, Function Falls stands on the lip of the bridge, deciding whether to jump. Where Buke and Gase's early releases were bristling and joyous doesn't \"[waking] up in a bundle of orgasm\" sound like fun? it's much harder to parse the emotion here. The band have described how the words to the opening song, \"Misshaping Introduction\", were improvised, \"resulting in a slight lyrical disintegration,\" and true to form, the only part that's easy to pick out without a lyric sheet is \"Don't clear the air/ Better to love first.\" The song's steady mechanical clank and the way Dyer sings in a downcast, quieter tone, all former yelps expunged, give the impression that the whole thing could go off at any second; it reminds me of the danger present in Annie Clark's work, particularly when she's playing dead in a visual. You stoop over, duped into concern, and bam!, she's got you by the throat. \"Fussrate\" puts out a little more easily, starting with a familiar monochrome tug they share a similar palette to Shellac, and it's no surprise that Bob Weston has mastered their forthcoming fulllength. Then one bastardized instrument or other poses as a Moog, making for an elegant segue into a regimented orchestral cacophony halfway between the most in excelsis parts of a Rhys Chatham composition and Battles circa Mirrored. Despite all this control, there's a danger present in the kind of industrial mechanical sound that Buke and Gase mine the tambourine in \"Tending the Talk\" sounds as if fashioned from a wreath of shivs, the effect on the guitar lending it a dull glitter, like a jagged piece of quartz lagged in dust. It's the brightest song on the record, but Dyer sings at her slowest and most soulful, repeating, \"this heart ain't too hard to guarantee,\" as half statement, half plea for understanding. She reaches a depth and insidiousness in her vocal that more than makes good on the band's excellent Fugazi covers for the Our Band Could Be Your Life concert that took place in New York earlier this year. Even though it was the starting point for the record, their cover of \"Blue Monday\" sits at the EP's end, where Dyer's processed, neutered cries of \"How should I feel?\" seem to act as a kind of emotional release for the questioning tone and linguistic disintegration that came before. On each of their releases to date, Buke and Gase have never been anything less than absolutely thrilling even if some of those thrills were a bit more firecrackeronyourchair than others and it speaks volumes that, whether they're going for maximalist madness or something more contained, both tacks still pack the same exhilarating punch. In their case, letting function dictate form hasn't limited any of their expression; rather, it's just shown off another side of their considerable arsenal. It's rare to find a band that triumphs in aggression, emotion, and innovation. Their controlled experiments have elicited a rare alchemy. "}