{"label":" Angelika Koehlermann","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1705/homepage_large.966da2cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Pierre Crube","title":"Immediate False Relief","text":" On Immediate False Relief, SimonPierre Weiskopf pitterpatters a brokenhearted court jester through a idiosyncratic and often daringly cheesy collection of minimal Casio pickup lines akin to a laser light show scored by The Cure and Orange Cake Mix. One half of Montrealbased provocateurs Ro, Weiskopf forgoes the hamfisted Situationist jokes; instead, he tenderly enacts twentysix bathetic scene changes in a wiry fortynine minute pantomime. Bravely drawing the curtains to the precious \"Chariots of Fire\" swells of \"Typecast as You Wish\", the saccharine tearjerker dares the listener to place these cloying theatrics within an ethereal soap opera landscape inhabited by sock monkeys blindly pirouetting with diecast shadow puppets. The brief \"I Like It\" follows up the introduction with a hard drum machine, twisted cable connections, manufactured cricket chirps, and a distended conveyor belt issuing varying shots of fiddling feedback that bleed into the next bit, \"Rimming\", which seemingly extols the rectaltonguing capabilities of a lover. Here, Weiskopf whispers and pines growlingly beneath constant machine gun fire, piano arpeggios, and believe you me a Six Cents & Natalie bass part. Our master of ceremony's sense of dynamics continues throughout the entire collection, highlighted on the movement between the Lesser spaz attack of \"Isolation at Transport\" and the toopoignantforwords \"Getting All Emo\". Following his patterns closely is an exercise in manic depression and any number of sight gags songs pause and skip, back beats turn into oddball, upfront solos that create sonic puns. Adept at pastiche, Weiskopf cogently directs a cast of abstract computer sounds, punkrock answering machines, computerized vegetable chopping, The Goldberg Variations played by elves, lowtech dance tracks, splatter paint, and stately marches for malfunctioning robots at a luau. Now wrap it all in red velvet and pink champagne and ask it for a kiss. Appended to Immediate False Relief's twentyone gun salute are five vocal tracks from the Ohym EP, which shift the tempo via a brokeass Trent Reznor mooning through the Pet Shop Boys. Besides \"Skin Off\", a horny malfunctioning NIN bit about tight asses (the backing grind and sitarstyled breakdown are nice touches) and the really sweet closer, \"He Sells Music\", a music box rejoinder to The Magnetic Fields' \"Take Ecstasy with Me\", these bits lack the unspoken verve of the mostly instrumental works preceding them. Weiskopf really hits his stride when he keeps quiet: playing the nailbiting Pierre Crube, a ghostly blueboy swathed in a yellow glow, he's able to swivel mutely outside standard song structures, levitating in a precious space between Hooked on Bach, The Charm of the Highway Strip, and a taciturn Rod McKuen's airbrushed seductions. "}