{"label":" SWTBRDS","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18382/homepage_large.ef48f033.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"DaVinci","title":"The MOEna Lisa","text":" The Bay area rapper DaVinci tells us The MOEna Lisa represents the third installment of a trilogy: 2010's The Day the Turf Stood Still found him squinting critically at the gentrification spreading through his home neighborhood of San Francisco's Fillmore district; last year's Feast or Famine EP mourned for his lost culture; and this album's positioned as his acceptance. Or so goes the narrative: To say that this thematic arc is mostly out of dog's range of hearing, and that all three releases resemble each other more than they do not, isn't a knock on DaVinci. He is a phenomenally consistent artist, and his releases resemble each other in all the best ways. Very little changes in DaVinci's style, by design. His voice is flat and dry, sounding like Yo Gotti but less raspy. He doesn't modulate his voice much, preferring to let his writing do the inflection for him. He is a resolutely serious penandpad ghetto reporter, a East Coasthearted rapper through and through. Bay Area rap has been working through an intriguing obsession with NYC's greytoned boombap heyday: That music felt traditional and timeless even as it was being made, and you have to assume this is what appeals to DaVinci. Like Freddie Gibbs, who pops up on The MOEna Lisa and instantly feels like a kindred spirit, DaVinci treats \"gangsta music\" as something to present and then to get out of the way of. To elaborate on it, vandalize it, or make it his own would be heresy. All of this makes DaVinci sound about as exciting as a bowl of shredded wheat and water. Subtlety is a murderous selling point: You might as well trumpet the font and spacing of a book. But small details, lovingly fussed over, do matter, and the longer you spend in DaVinci’s finegrained world, the further you sink into it. He's an incrementalprogress artist, and there's progress to observe on The MOEna Lisa. His taste in beats is growing more flamboyant those beats seem to be rubbing off on his pofaced style. \"Champion\" chops a flashy piano strut similar to \"Otis\" and tosses in a sampled gospel choir and children’s voices to boot. \"My Connect\", which loops a heliumfilled vocal whine around a thunderous slap, resembles the cartooncolored Bay Area rap of DaVinci's peers. If there's anywhere you can actually feel the narrative arc DaVinci has claimed for these albums, it's in the sense that on The MOEna Lisa, he's at least momentarily let got of whatever was gnawing him internally and allowed himself a few laughs, even put a few of them on the record. He's still better writing about misery rather than fun or women: Here's a fiercely packed line from the Gibbs featuring \"MYOB\": \"Big brother shot up, sister's always knocked up/ Big homey's locked up and my poppa still ain't popped up.\" On \"Extraordinary\", by contrast, he offers the profoundly uninviting sex talk \"I'm gonna renovate the coochie/ rip down walls,\" which is so disgusting that it took me out of the song to ponder questions: Will there be ventilation masks? Asbestos testing? (And, for what it's worth, most women probably don't enjoy having their vaginas compared to condemned buildings.) You can hear the flip side of foreheadslappers like that, though, on songs like \"Nothin Finna Stop Me\", which is full of goofy similes and boasting his money comes quick \"like virgin sex,\" if he \"had a bag full of fucks I couldn't give one.\" The song is relaxed, something DaVinci's never once been, and for fans of his music, it is all the more satisfying for feeling hardwon. This sense of stakes, impossible to quantify or explain, is what compels you to stick around with DaVinci. It's there in the music, and it's a worthy substitute for flair or formal innovation. He doesn't tweak gangsta rap because it probably helped save his life, and he likes it straight. On The MOEna Lisa it remains as lovingly served as you can get it anywhere these days. "}