{"label":" Full Pupp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18384/homepage_large.0c704ca8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Prins Thomas","title":"Prins Thomas II","text":" The Norwegian producer Prins Thomas navigates an odd conceptual space: he is a classicist, a conservative, but one adherent to artists and styles that were, by definition, exploratory and indefinable. Thomas is again a passive adventurer on his second solo album, Prins Thomas II, on which he continues to explore foggy krautrock, hippie jazz, and space disco. Prins Thomas II jettisons his debut album's guitaraided motorik expeditions in favor of slow, worming dance grooves. This was intentional: Thomas abandoned the live drums and bass that powered his first collection in favor of drum machines and synthesizers. It's a curious choice the world does not lack for slowdisco synth enthusiasts and as a result II is more diffuse than its predecessor and contains less gnarly, Michael Rotherinspired grit. Thomas excelled for years as an edits guru, so he has to know that II is too slow and linear for dancing; it's more likely to make you tap your foot and unconsciously nod your head. Thomas' compositions don't build so much as perpetually unwind; when he adds a bassline or twirls a new melody, it doesn't reach toward an apex so much as remind us that, yes, we are still strolling downhill toward an undefined moment of rest. This is Thomas' neatest trick as a producer but it's also the undoing of Prins Thomas II, which provides little to rally around or grasp onto. In an interview with Red Bull Music Academy, he admits that he's never had an \"Inspector Norse\"type hit, which... yeah. Thomas specializes in this type of layinthecut disco but it would be nice to see him reach for the brass ring occasionally. The 13minute \"Bobletekno\" is the album's centerpiece we know because Thomas reprises its tittering, aluminumfoil drums later on as \"Bobletekno (Permiks)\" and an example of Thomas using drum machines to add detail to his bold melodies. They are an aggressive, echoing patter throughout; when he reprises the song, he presents the rhythm sans accompaniment. He offers a similar trick on the sparse \"Bom Bom\", which presents a standard Thomas rhythm in repose, highlighting the subtle congo thwacks. These tracks, which play like a photonegative version of the rest of the album, present a possible path forward for Thomas, space disco without the disco. (In the Red Bull chat, Thomas is touchy about the term \"space disco,\" but it's unavoidable until he offers tracks that avoid it.) Slight stylistic shifts aside, II leaves Thomas in much the same place his debut did: as a producer predisposed to coloring inside the lines. We're left with some pretty pictures for our refrigerators and some worthwhile domestic jams, but little to be excited about. "}