{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18385/homepage_large.3f9bc6c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jenn Pelly","artist":"Dreamscape","title":"La-Di-Da Recordings","text":" The Bristol, England, trio Dreamscape are the sort of group from whom you'll want everything and nothing at once. Existing between 1990 and 1993, their vocalist Rebecca Rawlings and multiinstrumentalists Scott Purnell and Jamie Gingell produced melodic, ethereal shoegaze so quintessential and poised that fans of the genre could become attached with magnetic force. But the allure of Dreamscape's obscurity is also so radically cool that it begs to remain untouched. The Kranky label, with its barebones reissue, has done a fine job of maintaining this group's mystery in compiling a ninesong survey of its microscopic discography. While there's something enticing about such wellstyled dream pop going criminally unnoticed for two decades, LaDiDa doesn't need the crutch of enigma. The reissue is presented virtually without context, save for a tiny footnote that Purnell and Gingell considered Dreamscape a sideproject to their Secret Shine endeavor, an admittedly derivative MBVworshipping guitar band on pioneering Bristol indie pop outpost Sarah Records. (The final Dreamscape recordings happened to coincide with Secret Shine's 1993 debut, Untouched.) In the absence of an assigned Dreamscape narrative, though, we can create our own. We can picture the band holing up in some musty, lowlit attic, constructing perfectly hermetic, gothic pop for its own sake. We can insert ourselves into their process and color their intentions, letting our imaginations run like lucid dreams. We can imagine authenticity unencumbered by expectation and art created purely. Or we can speculate the far less romantic but equally probable notion that Dreamscape were trying to sign with 4AD, the label from whom the band cleverly culled its broad palette. The most immediate comparison is shoegazing alternative rock band Lush, in their early Spooky period. There are hints of Cocteau Twins' gothic atmosphere pushed through a more pronounced singersongwriter filter, occasionally complemented by bright, subtle flecks of piano. Unlike the typically indecipherable Liz Fraser, Rawlings' words, often cryptic or jaded, contribute to the album's dark spirit; more a royal shade of purple than black. Complex harmonies shift from deadpan to singsong, contributing a muted sense of drama. Rounding out the sound are bits of droning experimentalism not unlike those implemented by the signature 4AD act, This Mortal Coil. Dreamscape might be the most archetypal 4AD band that never was. Their sound hasn't gathered a fleck of dust. LaDiDa is divided in two: the first four tracks, more immediate pop and shoegaze structures, were meant to feature on a neverreleased 1993 album called Greater Than God for the local Bristol label LaDiDa Productions, allegedly called off because Dreamscape would not signed a threerecord deal (although Kranky founder Joel Leoschke managed to acquire a tape 20 years ago). That half soars upward with the heavenly, restrained tones of \"Separate Sense\", mounting thick atmosphere before a tense, haunting, and near a cappella detour: \"So there's blood in your eye now, oh what a shame,\" Rawlings narrates, a beguiling and cooly masked threat. \"I think I will finish while you're down.\" The melodic guitarsphere ascends quickly back up; an instant dreampop classic. Later hypnotic chords churn through \"Soft Fists\" and lead to a deathmarch drumbeat and gruesome lines that work a similar dynamic: \"You're very still/ I'm dripping in your blood,\" Rawlings whispers with an eery, menacing air. \"I'm very glad/ As the clock it turns to one.\" Dreamscape's more expansive 1992 Cradle EP, released via LaDiDa and constituting the reissue's second half, is epitomized by its title track: a crisscrossing patchwork of impressively stacked harmonies and skeletal guitars that form an orchestrated collage of sound. It all builds to dark, droning sacred music in the vein of Arvo Pärt. \"Dreamsleep Eternal\", meanwhile, is an interstellar masterpiece of mystic instrumentation and hymnlike vocals that strives for something boundless and epic; its ending meditation might recall the more recent works of minimal avantpop artist Julia Holter. Deep and explorative, \"Dreamsleep Eternals\"'s introductory and concluding bits of drone make it a piece with no true beginning or end, much like the O.G. Theater of Eternal Music itself. LaDiDa, both classicsounding and inventive, ought to confirm Dreamscape a spot in the canon of early shoegaze innovators. A beautiful thing about \"lost\" records like this is recognizing the odds were stacked against your ever discovering them it's only through fate that their notes and tones didn't end up alone on some odd dusty cassette, fading over time in a shoebox on a closet shelf. But there's wonder, too, in music existing in time purely for its process of creation. It can make you want to do the same, even if no one ever hears it. "}