{"label":" R&S","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18406/homepage_large.5e8a6e02.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hari Ashurst","artist":"Egyptian Hip Hop","title":"Good Don't Sleep","text":" There are no hard and fast rules for growing up; unless you're extremely assured, it's not until your early 20s that most people really find out who they are and what they truly like. To expect a band in their mid teens as in the case of Egyptian Hip Hop a few years ago to have the answer to much bigger questions about their future direction was always going to be somewhat unreasonable. Nonetheless, the initial buzz around the band here in the UK was fevered, and with their weird, colorful hair and strange name, the Manchester band certainly looked the part in early magazine coverage. The band's debut fulllength, Good Don't Sleep, appears after two years of lying low following their first tentative step an EP called Some Reptiles Developed Wings, made while they were between the age of 16 and 17. That short collection was produced by Hudson Mohawke, whose trademark maximal touch helped bring them out of themselves. At the time the band played the sullen teenager routine to a T: skulking around on stage, not bothering too much about chores like interviews with national press. Their influences matched this outlook too, and despite HudMo's sparkly sonics, the EP ultimately felt too bogged down by a debt to the Cure and Klaxons. Still, that time with Mohawke, plus previous work with members of Late of the Pier, and most recently, electronic label R&S, seems to have stood them in good stead. Most impressively on Good Don't Sleep, Egyptian Hip Hop find a sonic world of their own. A song like \"Snake Lane West\" feels furthest removed from the dancepunk lite that they made at first. Rubbery bass and offkilter guitar twist around each other, creating a sinister backdrop for Alex Hewett's barelythere vocals. Hewett intensifies the dread much as Liars' Angus Andrew would, singing clashing notes and teasing out melodic contrasts that feel as striking as they are strange. \"One Eyed King\" plays in similar murk too, unafraid of letting an ugly sound sit for just a little too long. Here, though, the grime morphs into something undeniably pretty and engaging, with unexpected flashes of Nirvana at their most stoned, or White Ponyera Deftones minus the distortion. There are a few more straightforward songs to be found here. Opener \"Tobago\" is gorgeous in its own way; looping guitar pattens rub against plenty of open air and static bass, while Hewett's voice anchors the movement, tightly harmonizing in the chorus for one of the record's prettiest moments. Singles \"SYH\" and \"Yoro Diallo\" carry more urgency, the latter sounding like Foals bent slightly out of shape. Again, wellknitted vocal harmonies help the song feel easier to love on first listen, without compromising on the screwed sonics they mine so effectively elsewhere.  Occasionally, though, Good Don't Sleep drifts too far in the wrong direction and coasts too much on vibe. And if there's one thing Egyptian Hip Hop aren't yet, it's good editors. But what the record lacks in brevity and nous it just about makes up for in the thrill of not quite knowing where Egyptian Hip Hop are leading you. Good Don't Sleep finds them holding a mirror up to their early work, eager to reverse any youthful misstep. Where Hewett once impersonated an interesting voice (namely that of Robert Smith) he now sounds older and more confident. Their early, punky tunes carried flourishes of postDFA dance music, whereas the songs here are now imbued with modern electronic music's more liquid, experimental spirit. Egyptian Hip Hop now sound like the band they dressed up so well as at first: weird, otherworldly, and exciting. "}