{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18404/homepage_large.4ab6991f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Hercules and Love Affair","title":"DJ-Kicks","text":" Andy Butler's Hercules and Love Affair project probably needed to throw a good party. Last year's Blue Songs offered streamlined, moody, and frequently muted dancepop, studiously treading the disco/house tightrope in the service of a higher cause of emotional, songwriterly dancepop. By contrast, Butler's entry in the DJKicks series pledges itself openly and unabashedly to debauched, dancefloorcentric old house music, in all its spedup, chunky and percussive glory. But haven't we been here before, on countless DJ mixes from an endless succession of eclectic, stripmining DJs who've trod these spangled boards over the past decade or so? Well, yes. And it's less a problem of the well running dry the supply of halfforgotten dance classics and wouldbeclassics for DJs like Butler to liberate seems inexhaustible than of maintaining the shock of the newold. Like a wellcrafted TV show whose later seasons are doomed to repeat in mildly new constellations the same storylines and relationship dynamics, disco and early house revivalism has reached the stage where, even if the tracks aren't familiar, the music's character arc certainly is: the nowfaded futurism, the bloated sonic excess, the sudden Uturns from deeperthandeep obscurantism to unabashed populism, the singleminded splendor of the disco and carnality of the house. It's a vibe that the Glimmers had already conquered seven years ago, and Playgroup's Trevor Jackson more than 10.  At first, DJKicks seems destined, even content, to offer another pitchperfect parade of retro dancepop signifiers. This approach is typified by Hercules and Love Affairs' own stately \"Release Me\", whose tumbling Chicago house piano, chattering percussion, grainy orchestral synth hits, and smooth Bananarama vocals seem to hit every retro dancepop button simultaneously. Their formal stylistic diversity notwithstanding, early inclusions such as the primitive, overstuffed UK house of Rhythm Mode:D's \"Can You Feel It (Reach to the Top)\" and the by turns stern and silly new beat of Fax Yourself's \"Strut Your Techno Stuff\" simply entrench the emergent collage: scenes from a dozen great parties from the late80s/early90s interzone though, of course, it's not immediately apparent what would be wrong with such a thing. But there's a broader and more interesting idea being promulgated here that doesn't become clear until the disc's middle third, which alights on a winning streak of bumping New York garage (Klubb Kidz's \"Don't Want to Hurt You (Skool Flava Dub)\"; the Solution's \"Feels So Right\"; Cloud 9's \"Do You Want Me\"), peaking with DJ Duke's darkly stuttering \"Love Don't Come Easy (Power Dub)\", which deploys a series of fractured diva invocations over a mysterious bassline and deliberately rudimentary, flailing snares. Much more than on his own productions, Butler's mix leans hard (and progressively harder) into 90s house's clattering counterrhythms, the skipping snares and bustling hihats and general sense of sowrongit'sright rhythmic awkwardness that becomes less about the cheerful exhumation of retro signifiers and more about the science of dancing a concern that feels modern regardless of the timestamp on the music that gives voice to it. In its final stretch DJKicks pursues this target with less regard to questions of old versus new. In the contemporary corner, Haze Factory's \"A Bit of Redemption\" fashions a jaunty tango strut out of a mordant techno synth melody, while In Flagranti's \"Magojiro\" concocts a fluttering and disorienting boogie, like a caffeinewired update of Cultural Vibe's \"Ma Foom Bey\". But more fully modern than both is Jump \"Chico\" Slamm's confounding, intoxicating \"second wave\" Chicago obscurity \"Feel Free\" from 1993, all relentless machine loops, bustling house syncopation, and effete, sighing vocals familiar ingredients combined in a manner that renders them utterly alien. While it's always startling to stumble across a 20yearold tune that still sounds totally fresh, I can't help but feel it would be even more exciting if \"Feel Free\" was new, a signpost of where we might go next rather than a snapshot of a path not travelled. Still, in its focus on the past's knack for concocting rhythms that dance around (rather than to) the beat, DJKicks makes a decent case for retracing our steps. If Butler falls slightly short of convincing that this particular brand of old will be made new again, it remains hard to find fault with his survey of all the fun we could have had. "}