{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18403/homepage_large.e9e95440.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"U.S. Girls","title":"GEM","text":" Meghan Remy makes haunted highway songs. Her records, which she releases under the name U.S. Girls, conjure a moment deep in the blearyeyed hours of an overnight drive, when you've stumbled upon an eclectic radio program hosted by somebody too hypnotizingly weird to be trusted with a primetime slot. (If they belong in any David Lynch movie, it's Lost Highway, no doubt.) The plural noun in her moniker is Remy's droll idea of a joke; you can tell without peeking at the liner notes that this is a project born of solitude and isolation, a catalog of one person's varied enthusiasms. But Remy has a way of teasing out the common undercurrent in all her source material, creating a surprisingly cohesive sound out of no wave's corrosion, glam rock's hedonism, and pop's direct, gutwrenching emotion. She's also got a gift for eerily infectious hooks: the melodies (on tracks like \"Island Song\", \"State House (It's a Man's World)\", and a deliciously creepy cover of \"The Boy Is Mine\") that bubbled up out of the smoggy ambience of her last and best record U.S. Girls on Kraak felt uncanny, imagined, too good to be true. You'd wake the other people in the car to listen, if only you were entirely sure you hadn't hallucinated them. Despite her lofi leanings, Remy's music has always given off a warped glamor. But what makes Gem feel like a such step forward (and such a straightup enjoyable romp) is the way it playfully appropriates the debauched excess of glam rock to achieve its own singular vibe. The terrific \"Slim Baby\" (an ode to coproducer Slim Twig, who makes records that share Remy's fascination with the theatrical) takes a T. Rexworthy riff and a bleacherstomping beat, but as ever, Remy finds a way to filter the familiar through her own idiosyncratic sensibility, slowing the tempo to just a hair below calisthenic. The result's an infectious and oddly sweet song (\"My slim baby, won't you be just a little more close to me?\") that moves like a cheerleader on Quaaludes. But even when she's doing her best Bolan, Gem's structure echoes no glamrelated reference point more than Here Come the Warm Jets. It's uncannily early Eno in its attention to texture, love of affect and most of all its spirit of genrehopping adventure. A sound collage of gurgling vocal samples preceded by an unexpectedly buoyant rendition of \"Down in the Boondocks\"? Sure, says Remy, why the hell not? On repeated listens, though, elements that initially scan as haphazard hodgepodge take the shape of something deliberate. With the ghosts of glam rock and pop crooners past as her guides, Remy's free to play around with different personas, characters, and genders. She dreams of being Jack the Ripper in a mesmerizing cover of Brock Robinson's \"Jack\", while \"Rosemary\" is a yearning, seasick elegy for the title character's affections. Her music doesn't gesture toward a deeper meaning below its surface so much as it glories in the weirdness, pleasure, and resonance on the surface of things. Which is how Remy's voice which sounds like Elvis' sneer caked in cherry red lipstick can be as simultaneously cartoonish and deeply affecting as it is on songs like \"Rosemary\" or her ode to her own project's isolated process, \"Work From Home\". Perhaps just as much as she channels the theatrical androgyny of Bolan or crooner Billy Joe Royal, U.S. Girls makes me think of Cindy Sherman's photographs. They make similar inquires into identity, artifice, and the underbelly of glamor, and, like U.S. Girls, they conjure a state of being that seems like an eversoslightly offkilter version of reality. \"Rather than being about understanding,\" Jerry Saltz  wrote in a review of the photographer's recent retrospective, \"[Sherman's pictures are] about coming to grips with the state of mind that produces them.\" The same could be said of Meghan Remy's songs. You're tempted to call them Lynchian, but they're singular and personal enough to warrant their own adjective. Remyesque? "}