{"label":" Creep City","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18412/homepage_large.bd263517.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Katherine St. Asaph","artist":"MS MR","title":"Candy Bar Creep Show","text":" It's hard to know what to make of New York duo MS MR at first. Partly it's deliberate. Like more and more wouldbe breakout acts, they've been as generous with biographical details as eyedroppers are with water, down to their photographss and names: Lizzy Plapinger of boutique pop label Neon Gold is the MS, and Max Hershenow her corresponding MR. Partly it's because the context around them swirls as thick as their music's atmospherics. They've been associated with Tumblr primarily on grounds of using it, which can lose you an hour or so among their Addams Family screencaps and photographed pills, but it's meaningless when it comes to the music. Distribution methods and singleart tastes don't constitute a genre. Everything on Candy Bar Creep Show, MS MR's first proper EP, has been released before. (Yes, via Tumblr.) But that's not the only reason these songs sound instantly familiar. The bands they've been compared to are somewhat more telling, although none fits exactly. A little more sashay and they'd be Poliça; more rapture and they'd be Florence; throw in some trolling and they'd be Lana. Their closest analogue, in fact, might be Toni Halliday's solo project Chatelaine, even if \"Bones\" didn't so closely echo their \"Broken Bones\". Every song is steeped in gloom, yet not so much as to sully their hooks. Plapinger's vocals are shaded brittle, confident, or spooky as is called for. She'll turn a folk curtsy for a sparrow metaphor, strut her melisma through a verse like the Sugababes' Siobhan Donaghy, or give up words entirely; the one commonality is that they're always a shade too vulnerable, too clear in a busy mix, or too hesitant where she'd otherwise be belting. She's the figure lit like a spotlight amid the dusk, lost but compelling. This effect works best when the lyrics merit such illumination, as on \"Hurricane\", the band's breakout and the most fully formed track here. The strings are churning up something, specifically a relationship wrecked out of fear. \"Welcome to the inner workings of my mind, so dark and foul I can't disguise,\" Plapinger sings, and if it's melodramatic, the fog of reverb certainly backs her up. There's more levity on \"Ash Tree Lane\", a march set to brass and a wordless hook that'd be exuberant in any other context, but then Plapinger gets to singing again about plagues and wrong choices, eventually cutting the whole thing off with a gasp afteragain \"my mind's a mess.\" \"Bones\" isn't as strong; the pile of fractured guitar and strings works well enough, but it's unclear whether \"dark twisted fantasy\" is a Kanye reference (or whether it'd be preferable if so), and the lyrical admission \"marinate in misery like a girl of only 17\" doesn't excuse the clichés of teenage misery: empty churches, broken dreams paired with silent screams, madness paired with sadness. A good way to tell whether a group's succeeding on style or substance is to see how they handle a concept that could be bigger than them. On Candy Bar Creep Show, that's \"Dark Doo Wop\", a title that might as well have been kept on reserve behind glass labeled \"Break in Case of Aesthetic Drought\". The throughline is simple, a mainstay of pop through the ages: This world is gonna burn, so you might as well stick around. It's simple enough to execute, too; all you need are a few diffident doowops and coquetry on \"that's my man,\" and as for the part where the world burn, burn, burns, the juxtaposition's obvious on its own. But it only works if it's delivered with a preacher's passion, or at least with Skeeter Davis' pathos. MS MR deliver, ratcheting up the rapture to nearthunderstorm levels: seething percussion, steely vocals, and a sonic fog that buries any lingering pleasantries. "}