{"label":" Sedimental","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18415/homepage_large.470af14c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Weird Weeds","title":"The Weird Weeds","text":" On their previous and perhaps best album, 2010's Help Me Name Melody, Austin's Weird Weeds followed two sonic threads. One strand spun wellcrafted melodies with pithy, haikulike lyrics. The other traced untitled, looping instrumentals, heavier on repetition than versechorus structure. As the quartet carefully balanced those complementary halves, a whole emerged one in which the parts depended on each other to give the album a compelling flow. Striking that balance couldn't have been easy, but for their followup, Weird Weeds assigned themselves an even more challenging task. On this selftitled album, they attempt a similar weave with just a single thread, sticking solely to unnamed instrumentals. It's a risky choice, as the band's knack for repetition and restraint could grow tedious without vocals, producing music with a blankness to match its lack of titles. But The Weird Weeds is abundantly engaging, revealing a confident, committed band that doesn't need to artificially vary its sound to hold interest.  On first glance, that sound evokes various strains of postrock: the slow cycles of Slint, the meditative patience of Labradford, the dusty vistas of latterday Earth. But Weird Weeds' devoutly repetitive approach is distinct. The band and drummer Nick Hennies in particular is wellversed in modern minimalism, and knows how to build tension from the momentum of repetition. Whenever they could go for an effortless crescendo in the vein of groups like Mogwai or Mono, they hold firm, locking into hypnosis rather than pushing emotional buttons. Not only does this give the music a longerlasting effect it also means that when Weird Weeds do swell, the impact is greater because of the patience it took to get there. At first, The Weird Weeds is all about patience. Tracks one through four are slow and determined, marching through patterns with transfixing dedication. Just when things seem to have settled into an infinite loop, a lone bass drum lurches forward in the background. That beat persists into track five, bursting into shiny, interlocking guitars (including one played by guest John Dieterich of Deerhoof). This shift swings the album toward the bright and upbeat, as the band finds beauty in the curves of repetition. In doing so, they remind me most of Pell Mell, a band that wasn't mentioned much in the 1990s postrock boom, but whose subtle hooks deserved more attention. The album's arc from patience to brightness is as natural as an orbiting planet, but Weird Weeds do that one better at the end, stuffing a miniature solar system into one sevenminute track. True to form, this closing piece builds intensity not through change but momentum, starting with a fournote guitar figure and slowly adding accents and atmosphere. The simple drama recalls Papa M's more melancholy moments but don't let all these comparisons distract you. What matters most about The Weird Weeds is how it furthers this band's stature as the kind that others should be compared to. "}