{"label":" Vase","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18417/homepage_large.50e10d9d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Miles Raymer","artist":"Zodiac","title":"Zodiac EP","text":" Six months ago a Canadian producer named Jeremy \"Zodiac\" Rose seemingly pulled back some of the veil of secrecy that's hovered around the Torontobased futureR&B project the Weeknd. Rose alleged in a Vice interview that he was responsible not only for the druggy, dreamy blueprint that defined the project's sonic identity, but that he also came up with the louche condorat persona that singer Abel Tesfaye adopted when he took the Weeknd name. Rose was credited on the trio of songs posted to YouTube that first drew attention to the Weeknd when Drake reposted them, but although two of his compositions made it onto Tesfaye's careerlaunching debut album, House of Balloons, his name didn't appear anywhere on or around the finished album. Tesfaye's kept typically silent about the accusations. Rose, on the other hand, has made a few followup comments that indicate he's happy to leave behind his situation's dramatic aspects in order to enjoy the perks of his postWeeknd notoriety, namely the attention being paid to his first solo recordings, a fivesong EP for fellow Canadian beat maker Jacques Greene's Vase label. Given Rose's claims of ownership to the Weeknd's trademark sound and mood, it's close to impossible to listen to Zodiac without holding it up against the 70% of House of Balloons that he didn't have a hand in, as well as its two sequels, all of which were arranged by credited producers Doc McKinney and Illangelo. It's a tantalizing prospect made frustrating by Zodiac's brevity just under 18 minutes compared to the 2.5 hours worth of material that Tesfaye, Illangelo, and McKinney released in 2011. Still, there's enough material to make a few comparisons. For instance, Rose is a much less disciplined and proficient musician than Tesfaye's current favored producers. This isn't a bad thing, and Rose has admitted in his interviews that he isn't an adept player. Illangelo and McKinney may have the better grasp on pop song structures, but their heavily mannered Weeknd productions can sometimes get stiflingly stylish, whereas Rose's lack of technical knowledge means he doesn't even know which lines he's supposed to be coloring in. That element pays off in the same kind of wild, throwanythingatthewall energy that you find in early recordings by Brian Eno, who at the time didn't really know what he was doing either. The EP starts off with Rose backing up his claim on the Weeknd's trademark sound and mood on a pair of songs, \"Girlgirlgirl\" and \"Come\", that do the sleazy nocturnal decadence thing as well as anything in the latter's catalog, although with a rawness that makes up in sonic texture for what it lacks in terms of speakerbumping polish. But for such a short recording Rose shows an impressive range, dipping into quasiclassical pianobased ambient landscaping with 89secondlong \"Loss Config.\". The remaining two songs offer two contrasting takes on Caribbeaninflected postR&B \"So Soon We Change\" is a bedroom jam overlaid with psychedelically bright washes of color, while \"138\" is darker, glitchier, and more like dancehall night in a cyberpunk novel. Just as it's difficult to compare Rose's productions with McKinney and Illangelo, it's equally as hard not to imagine how the material on Zodiac would have sounded with Tesfaye on it. Jesse Boykins III's vocal on \"Come\" the only nonsampled singing on the EP gets close to Tesfaye's presence, but there's something a bit too clunky and selfconsciously Weekndish about his performance. (Then again I'm not sure if Tesfaye could keep up with Rose's vision for \"Loss Config.\" and \"138\".) If Rose's claims are the truth, then he got screwed out of most of the benefits others gained from a sound he helped invent. Then again Zodiac is an addictive little record, and he's still growing as a musician at an impressive rate. Recently he signed a songwriting deal with indie megaproducer Paul Epworth's Wolf Tone label, and he says he's going to use the opportunity to get better at playing instruments. He's only 23. He's going to be fine. "}