{"label":" 50 Weapons","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18421/homepage_large.60206a37.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Shed","title":"The Killer","text":" Regularly hailed as a hero in the story of the return of \"proper\" techno this past half decade, German producer René Pawlowitz best known for his work as Shed bears the consequential burden of being both over and underrated, his tunes elevated to the impossible status of religious icons, or damned for falling short of that fictitious status. Up to now, Shed albums have mostly managed to stay on the right side of the perceived divide, with 2008's Shedding the Past yielding up delectable, exquisitely produced deep techhouse, and 2010's followup The Traveller drawing a more challenging set of rhythmically adventurous avanttechno sketches. But The Killer, Pawlowitz's least praiseworthy but most fun album to date, might end the golden run. If so, in this case it's worth ignoring the clergy.  From the name on in, The Killer presents as both sequel and counterpoint to The Traveller, its short, occasionally fragmented tracks carefully blending Shed's disparate influences in a variety of calibrations that this time are spiked heavily with a fondness for minimal techno's kickdrumdriven intensity. As you might expect, Shed's \"return\" to techno is hardly straightforward there's nothing as instantly familiar, let alone hands in the air euphoric, as his Detroitinspired early classic \"Well Done (033472edit)\", for instance. Still, for the most part, The Killer steps back from the rhythmic spaciousness of The Traveller's best moments, in favor of a grainer, murkier, more uncompromisingly physical sound that adds 90s warehouses to 90s production values in Shed's list of fetishes. The last album's glowing, iridescent synth tones and perspicacious rhythms roundaboutly redolent of classic early ambient techno are still present, but submerged within more aggressive, punitive settings. The Killer also reverses its predecessor's narrative arc: Where that album frontloaded its unpredictable highlights before gradually subsiding into murky abstraction (leaving aside the astral drum and bass of closer \"Leave Things\"), The Killer steadily ascends from stentorian clanking and pounding toward the light, completing its journey with one of Shed's most apollonian efforts to date in \"Follow the Leader\", a soothing piano and breakbeat bedtime story. And even if it's just this trick of sequencing, The Killer works slightly better than either of its predecessors as an album, with the promise of what is to come relieving the earlier stretches of some of their grimness. The gaseous (and Gaseous) ambient interludes, too, are perfectly sequenced, offering soothing counterpoints to the album's most pummelling efforts. None of which will impress those looking for a remapping of techno's geography, but it's worth emphasizing that Pawlowitz is an ideas man rather than a visionary: Each of these tunes offers a differently askew take on techno's reigning principles, and their impressiveness as individual pieces of dialogue in a wideranging conversation more than makes up for the absence of an overarching statement. In its finest moments, The Killer's antieditorializing perversity recalls Carl Craig's epochal mid90s stretch (both in his own name and as 69 or Paperclip People), and sonically, too: those massive midrange synth tremors, the lumbering yet quirky rhythms, the sense of vinyl warmth that infuses even the most glacial passages. Pawlowitz hasn't stepped back from The Traveller's rhythmic hinterlands so much as worked to reterritorialize those spaces within more conventional techno settings. These efforts grow stronger and more personable and idiosyncratic as the album progresses: The stern \"Silent Witness\" may sound like a techno banger with indigestion, but it's hard not to smile at the seismic shudders and goosestepping beat of \"Day After\"; \"You Got the Look\" powers its dubtechno glimmers with chugging, pistonlike kicks, while \"Ride On\" weaves a lumpen pseudohalfstep beat through a seething bed of synth drones and eerie glossolalia, its groove lurching forward with a wounded determination, like a heavily scarred tanker rolling into battle.  Starting with \"Estrange\" on Shedding the Past, Pawlowitz has been unable to resist throwing in one gregarious, percussive anthem on each album, perhaps as a gesture toward what he might do if he shared Craig's worldconquering inclinations as well as his production finesse. Here, a skipping homage to 2step garage, \"V10MF!/The Filler\" could almost be crossover material, and it's a good look, boasting delicately programmed snares, chintzy organ, and a hypnotically roaming, ruminative synth melody reminiscent of (yes) Carl Craig's remix of Cesaria Evora's \"Angola\". This unexpected play for the center should be confusing what mindset could endorse such a move while also offering up such determinedly furrowbrowed efforts as \"Silent Witness\"? But The Killer makes the most immediate case yet for Shed's decision to chart a course through (rather than with or against) the currents of contemporary techno. If only all headscratching felt so good. "}