{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18422/homepage_large.88fe72ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Royal Trux","title":"Accelerator","text":" In the early 90s, indie rock was essentially synonymous with lofi, as upstart artists embraced fourtrack recording for its costeffectiveness, DIY egalitarianism, and aesthetic remove from the increasingly commercialized nature of alternative rock. But by decade's end, many of the movement's most visible proponents Guided by Voices, Pavement, Sebadoh had traded up to bigger labels, bigger recording budgets, and proper producers, effectively defining the idea of lofi as a formative phase that bands inevitably outgrow. Royal Trux seemed destined to follow the same trajectory. While the duo of Neil Hagerty and Jennifer Herrema first earned underground renown with 1990's stillinscrutable scifi skronk masterwork Twin Infinitives, by 1995, the band was signing a threealbum deal with Virgin Records and hiring Neil Young's longtime righthand man, David Briggs, to oversee their southernrockin' majorlabel debut, Thank You. And despite its infamously retchworthy cover art, the 1997 followup, Sweet Sixteen, was even more sophisticated in execution, swaddling the band's grimy boogie in layers of cinematic strings and gleaming guitar solos. But Royal Trux's increasingly highconcept take on dirtbagrock didn't exactly light up SoundScan registers: Rather than release the band's third Virgin submission, Accelerator, the label opted to pay Royal Trux to just go away. (Hagerty all but anticipates Royal Trux's exile from Virgin when, on the Dylanesque \"Yellow Kid\", he moans, \"I don't like this arrangement/ Wild schemes and nothing but bad dreams.\") You can't blame the Virgin execs for running scared in sharp contrast to its two refined predecessors, Accelerator pulls an abrupt 180 back to the lofi obfuscation of Royal Trux's earliest releases. Accelerator found more sympathetic benefactors at the band's original homebase of Drag City Records, but while sonically of a piece with the hazy, strungout blooze of 1992's untitled release and 1993's Cats and Dogs, the album continues with the more accessible songcraft the band introduced on the two Virgin releases, making this both the most openly celebratory yet eternally warped entry in the Royal Trux canon. In the hands of, say, Guided by Voices, lofi recording could approximate the tinny din of the golden oldies broadcast on your local AM station; Accelerator, however, doesn't so much evoke the sound of a classicrock band blaring out of a cheap transistor radio as one trapped inside of it, strangled by circuitry and choking on static. Royal Trux had conceived their threealbum Virgin run as a triptych exploring a different decade in recent American popcultural history: Thank You was their comment on the 1960s, Sweet Sixteen their take on the 1970s, and Accelerator their interpretation of the 1980s. Not that you could necessarily tell without the advance notice: Accelerator bears none of the MTVready sleekness we tend to associate with popular music from the era and, if anything, its aciddamaged riffage, wiggy Wurlitzer vamps, and copious cowbell more closely relate to turnofthe70s posthippie jamrock. (The latest release from Herrema's postTrux outfit, Black Bananas, Rad Times Express IV, actually boasts a more explicitly 80s ethos.) But then, for all of the glamor and futurism attached to the 80s, the decade was equally defined by its retrogazing the first wave of agingrocker reunion tours, \"The Wonder Years\", and every second film at your local cinema being about the Vietnam War. Accelerator thus captures the experience of 80s kids who grew up thinking the most transformative moments in history had already passed them by, its distorted, disorienting production underscoring the impossibility of recapturing something that's long gone. Closer in spirit to Ariel Pink's phantasmagoric pop than its 90s lofi contemporaries, Accelerator is like an Instagramfiltered take on rock's golden age an attempt to recapture something authentic through knowingly artificial, premeditated means. Like the previous entries in Drag City's Royal Trux reissue campaign, this nofrills rerelease of Accelerator exists simply to put this essential album back into print rather than try to deconstruct its mystique through outtakes and demos. And besides, bonus materials are ultimately unnecessary, because this album sounds every bit as absurd, chaotic, and exhilarating as it did 14 years ago. The passage of time has brought us no more closer to figuring out the logic of the uproarious roadhouse riot \"The Banana Question\" or the absolutely demented, streetjive nursery rhyme \"Juicy, Juicy, Juice\", but their insidious earworm hooks perpetually lure you back into the clamor for further investigation. Most of these tracks are simply structured, and even repeat the same lyrics throughout, but Royal Trux deviously tweak the sonics so that you barely recognize your surroundings by song's end over the course of five identical verse/chorus cycles, \"New Bones\" approximates the sound of walking through the eye of a hurricane, with Herrema's deadcool drawl and the song's steady strut perilously on the brink of being washed out Hagerty's alien guitar frequencies and shortwave vocals. But Accelerator's bizarro soundworld is not so overwhelming as to completely obscure Royal Trux's badass essence (see the wahwahdrenched knockout \"Follow the Winner\"), nor their penchant for surprisingly lucid, affecting lyricism: in the chorus of \"Liar\" \"I've got a taste in my mouth/ just like a burning tire\" you've got a slogan for your worst Sundaymorning hangover. And in a lategame surprise, Accelerator drops its fuzzcovered facade to deliver Royal Trux's most unabashedly tender moment ever in \"Stevie\", a suave, stringswept soul ballad that could practically pass for early Steely Dan. Where the song's poignancy was once undermined somewhat by the fact that it was reputedly written in honour of Steven Seagal, today, the tribute feels that much more appropriate: after all, if a Blevel 80s action star can go on to play a real cop on TV, then surely Accelerator can now stand alongside the hallowed classic rock it so brilliantly subverts. "}