{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18433/homepage_large.2d27ffc5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Pig Destroyer","title":"Book Burner","text":" The new millennium has seen indie kids finally investigating metal as if it were part of their heritage, rather than as if they were facing down a hostile army doing unspeakable things behind enemy lines. Despite their relatively high profile with falsemetal media outfits, though, grindcore titans Pig Destroyer have ferociously exempted themselves from any crossover discussion, all without doing much more than being themselves. The reasons why that kind of resoluteness would keep them outliers should be obvious if you know what \"grindcore\" means. If not, the first four tracks of Book Burner are a pretty good crash course: You shouldn't need more than four minutes to figure out if this band is for you. During those four minutes, we get saturationsprayed by the kind of rasping scream that will keep some future earnoseandthroat specialist in cushy golfing weekends. Frontman J.R. Hayes has one of the best and most convincing lunatic presences in metal. Even if he's a pussycat in his home life, when he's psychoraving on record he turns into the guy on the subway you hope would move along to the next car. Presence is important for outsiders when dealing with a genre where some of the biggest stars \"sing\" like a troubled digestive tract. Pig Destroyer have loads of it thanks to Hayes, a desperation and rage they manage to communicate like actual desperate and angry humans, rather than relying on playedout metal scariness. Now given those running times, the tempo on those four opening statements is obviously set at \"insane,\" and only occasionally notched down to \"mosh,\" with new, presumably noncyborg, drummer Adam Jarvis doing stoponadime swerves and shifts that only programming should be able to pull off. It's Jarvis' first record with Pig Destroyer, and he wastes no time in introducing himself to the fold: The third track, \"The Underground Man\", which lasts all of 32 seconds, is just awesome, a sensesbattering overload that manages to both swing and clobber. It's as if Jarvis, who also plays in the deathgrind band Misery Index, took about six hardcore songs he'd been tinkering with, all of them at different speeds, and then decided, hey, why not just slam them all together without once losing the groove. When it's over you feel like you just staggered off a broken tiltawhirl. Maybe you should give it to track five though, because that's when guitarist and band mastermind Scott Hull unleashes the first of many sickass riffs that any lover of heavy guitar could understand, a woozy swampmuck strut that could quite plausibly be called anthemic. Hull's own affinity for perverse grooves is another reason for Pig Destroyer's improbable sense of swing between the fullfrontal assaults. Despite their commitment to total destruction, PD's guitar does offer a ton of familiar pleasures, little blurts of fierce thrash or lowdown Southern boogie, with the few seconds of righteous evil that close out \"Eve\" being both typical and exemplary. It's just that we really are often talking literal seconds to grab onto. And though he clearly invested many childhood hours studying metal's unholy texts, Hull's just as interested in making sounds like a swarm of killer bees squeezed into your ear via a turkey baster. So yeah, this is still music with zero intention of meeting the nonextreme audience halfway. Book Burner is Pig Destroyer's fifth album, and despite a fiveyear gap since their last record, the epochal Phantom Limb, and the addition of a new drummer, it's the work of a longhaul, tourhoned grindcore unit in frightening control of its caustic materials and even more caustic philosophy. Like a Hollywood stunt choreographer let loose on a demolition derby, Pig Destroyer attacks these minuteandchange bursts of chaos with dominating precision. Even when they ride out a groove, like riffmonster \"Baltimore Strangler\", it's more like breaking a bad horse than enjoying a friendly gallop. Plus, the title alone should let you know the kind of blasted emotional world we're inhabiting here. Think one of those maxoutthecreditcards underground horror films made by and for obsessives: Book Burner is utterly ugly, thoroughly alienating stuff that doesn't give half a shit if you can stomach its musical and spiritual violence. It's also one of the best rock albums of the year, though maybe it should come with a sticker that reads \"abandon hope of rockin' good times, all ye who enter here.\" And Pig Destroyer even have qualities to please those who go to metal for its \"avant\" qualities as much as the abuse. If even the most roomclearing metal can get praised for its sonic adventurousness in our textureobsessed times, for a grindcore band extreme metal often at its furthestout extreme of rawness and ragged production Pig Destroyer have an incredibly rich sound. The addition of noise dude Blake Harrison for the last couple of records has given the music an extra horribleblare layer of gnarled electronics. And despite the band's famed lack of bass guitar, the weight of Hull's typically lowendintensive production job reattaches the heaviness to a genre where too often the pursuit of speed leaves everything tinny and weirdly weak. The one thing that's hard to deny is that Book Burner's even less userfriendly than Phantom Limb, which wasn't exactly a freindly howdo. It's like PD decided to take the innovations of Limb the massive and unashamed riffage, the bodybruising weight and apply it to the chewedandchopped frenzy of their first few, more traditionally grind LPs. One thing for sure though is that PD continue to play with an invention and intensity that sucks the breath out of fans, a dedication to both grind's visceral appeal and shaping it into new forms that puts them leagues beyond most of their peers. It's that raging conviction, the totalizing whomp of their sound, one you can feel in your gut as much as hear, that makes them powerful, above and beyond however much their sense of rock groove and rock drama nudges their genre's selfimposed boundaries forward. So PD put this crazed and hateful stuff together with as much smarts as any highbrow metal band, but also with an endoftheirrope furty that's more Jake LaMotta punching prison walls than John Petrucci doing RimskyKorsakovforidiots. There's a queasy joy you feel in your lizard brain with heavy music played with PD's can'tbefaked physical force. Their aggression seeps into you like an unwanted, but eventually notunpleasant sickness. Maybe that's not your bag. It's not a lot of people's bag. But if it is, Book Burner is seriously cathartic. However convoluted things get, you still wanna pump fist and bang head, even if you're not always sure when you should be doing so. "}