{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18435/homepage_large.f6955e91.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Titus Andronicus","title":"Local Business","text":" Patrick Stickles announced Titus Andronicus' upcoming North American tour by proclaiming \"PUNK IS BACK.\" I suppose it's only fair to point out this is a guy whose last record ended with a 15minute epic based on a Civil War naval battle. (It also had a bagpipe solo.) But while \"The Battle of Hampton Roads\" and many other Titus Andronicus songs lack the structural qualities of punk rock proper, they more than compensate with a spirit of allin commitment. This was music made without any sort of Plan B. It's understandable that Stickles would be flying the banner of punk for Local Business since Titus Andronicus couldn't possibly top The Monitor by going bigger. But while Local Business is no less ambitious than its predecessors, it's ambitious in a way that's more meaningful for the band as a working unit. This is the first time the lineup touring the record is the same one that made it, and you get the feeling their intent was to make a onetake road dog album. At that they've succeeded. But Local Business also marks the first time the band seems like it's holding something back like there is a Plan B. At the outset, you get an idea of how it might've been drawn up. The first three songs on Local Business are by far the strongest and perhaps coincidentally the most familiar a medley of opening duo \"Ecce Homo\" and \"Still Life With Hot Deuce on Silver Platter\" has been a staple of their live sets for some time, while \"Upon Viewing Oregon's Landscape With the Flood of Detritus\" was premiered as part of an anticipatory mixtape. Together, they align with the mission of Local Business by sounding more pluginandplay than even the rawest parts of The Airing of Grievances, something that could be knocked out immediately by five guys in a room and captured on tape without the need for narration, a brass section, or multiple tempo changes. These opening tracks still bear many of the characteristics of classic Titus Andronicus songs, with rhythms to beat out on your steering wheel, triumphant classic rock guitars, and Stickles showing off his underrated sense of tunefulness. Once he grabs a hold of a melody, he crams it with injokes and selfreference: \"Feeling like we live on a Diarrhea Planet\" is a classic Sticklesism if you don't know he's namedropping his friend's band. In a rare event, Stickles actually repeats lines, and you can easily hear those key phrases being echoed by a room full of true believers. That sense of populism is crucial as the band juggles nihilism, existentialism, and misanthropy. The opening section is a promising glimpse of a more aerodynamic and bluecollar Titus Andronicus, but by \"My Eating Disorder\", their new attitude has begun to clash with old habits. As is his style, Stickles has been candid about his struggles with Selective Eating Disorder, and as a confessional, \"My Eating Disorder\" is admirable, enlightening, and incredibly brave. But as a piece of music, it doesn't pack nearly enough ideas to support its grand framework. \"My Eating Disorder\" isn't really part of a narrative arc, but as the literal and figurative center of Local Business, it opens a fissure and everything else crumbles around it. The oneminute instrumental \"Food Fight!\" and the oneline rant of \"Titus Andronicus vs. the Absurd Universe (3rd Round KO)\" are the type of songs that carried weight in the context of Titus' prior concepts, but here they add nothing. \"(I Am the) Electric Man\" was a lark when it was released online following Stickles' bizarre electrocution accident, and outfitted with glitzy showtune vocals, it's a welcome respite in between the autopilot angst of \"In a Small Body\" and \"Tried to Quit Smoking\"'s agonizing blooze crawl. Most important, for a record whose title and purpose is to celebrate punk, DIY, and local scenes, there's little sense of their previous fun or community uplift. During \"In a Big City\", Stickles screams \"Now I'm a drop in deluge of hipsters,\" connecting with a sentiment on \"Still Life\": \"It's just me, lonely me/ and the other relevant dudes/ arrogant enough to believe this is developing news.\" These are representative of Local Business' pervasive attitude, rife with the sort of sarcasm, gossip, and double meaning that dominates discourse in indie rock and its Twitter parallel universe. Cynicism is both healthy and necessary in this realm, and Stickles' bullshit detector is off the charts throughout much of Local Business. But as he wonders about his complicity or how this kind of social schematic has benefited him, the album becomes stifling rather than illuminating. Even he's not sure how much he has to add to the conversation, as so much of Local Business struggles with coming up with something new to say: \"Don't tell me that I was born free/ that joke's been old since high school,\" \"By now I think we've established/ that everything is inherently worthless,\" \"Yes, it's 'us against them' again.\" As such, a record meant to solidify Titus Andronicus after the past six years of personnel churn ultimately sounds transitional. This could possibly work in favor of Local Business in the long run, and after two stonecold knockouts in The Airing of Grievances and The Monitor, it's not unexpected for them to stumble a bit. But are they on the right track? The battle lines of \"us against them\" aren't as clearly drawn this time, and for once, Titus Andronicus sound unsure of where they stand. "}