{"label":" Sacred Bones","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18442/homepage_large.dfbb9088.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Trop Tard","title":"Too Late (Box Set)","text":" The debut cassette tape by French cold wave act Trop Tard is decorated by a poorly Xeroxed photograph featuring two of the band members wearing comically oversized sunglasses. It's possibly the least appropriate image they could have chosen to help illustrate how the music inside sounded. That album, titled Photodrame, is so claustrophobically downbeat that it makes the band's most obvious inspirations (early Cure, Joy Division) seem positively sprightly in comparison. Photodrame is included in full on this box set from Sacred Bones, which includes the band's second record, Ils Étaient 9 Dans L'Obscurité, plus a compilation album of rarities. Trop Tard's name translates as \"Too Late,\" providing a nearperfect title for this collection, mainly because it's taken around 25 years for this material to get a proper reissue, but also because it missed the 21stcentury cold wave resurgence by at least a couple of years. Truly they are a band out of time. Photodrame was originally released in 1987, but it bears hallmarks that stretch back to the previous decade. The squalling ball of compact energy at the heart of Cabaret Voltaire's classic synthabuse track \"Nag Nag Nag\" is occasionally mirrored, although Trop Tard were operating on a strict guitar/bass/drum machine setup at the time. The overall sound appears to be a consequence of two forces colliding. For one, there's a punklike amateurishness to the playing. Philippe Lixtre's bassline on \"La Mort Est Humaine\" is so loose and unrefined it feels like you're witnessing a musician learning to play in real time. Secondly, this was a home recording, with the tape hiss lending an appropriately decaying atmosphere to songs like the rare English language venture \"Johnny Is a Loser\". Sadly, it's unlikely we'll ever find out Trop Tard's true motivations. The people behind this music remain cloaked in mystery, with Sacred Bones only releasing this set by negotiating with the remaining living member through a third party.  One thing abundantly clear from Photodrame is that a large stack of pentup anguish was offloaded into this music. The vocals from Fabien Doe are uncomfortably raw, from the Birthday Party howl drilled into the center of \"Le Chant Des Martyrs\" to the sheer surliness of \"Ma Folie Se Dessiner\". That sense of collapse, of witnessing someone pushed to the brink for their art, is something the band polished up when they got a chance to move beyond their debut. Ils Etaient 9 Dans L'Obscurité, released just a year later, is a pro effort in comparison. The playing and singing are both vastly improved, in the process removing some of the unease from their work. But the payoff is more satisfying here. \"Les Anges D'Aujourd'hui\" is artfully threaded between the bedsit pining of Soft Cell and the screaming guitar sound of Magazine, while \"Maman\" is masterfully drunken, hinting at frictional territory Trop Tard could have explored had the band enjoyed a greater shelf life. The fact that Ils Etaient 9 Dans L'Obscurité was an end that should have been a beginning is, of course, a big part of the appeal. Shortlived bands that leave a giant question mark behind allow us to create imaginary future narratives in out heads, places where acts like Trop Tard further honed their potential and reached out to a wider audience. But the underlying picture that emerges with repeat plays of Too Late is one of a band that was a little too damaged to function beyond the tiny coterie they attracted. It's not hard to figure out that the mind behind the bleak \"Les Rêves De Peur\" from Ils Etaient 9 Dans L'Obscurité was illequipped for success of any kind. Even upbeat tracks like \"L'Analyse\" and the positively violent \"Mort D'Une Ame\" are plunged into the black by Doe's tormented vocal passages, where he slurs and sobs and whines around the edges of every word. Many of the lyrics are sung in French, but someone without knowledge of the language can easily grasp the intent, so great is the emotion that bleeds from every syllable. Trop Tard's failings emerge through the lack of variation in their work, through a bloodyminded determination to remain mired in a place of discomfort. When the songs don't quite work, such as on the additional disc of rare and unheard material belonging to this collection, there's something defiantly teenage about it, like you've just walked in on a sulking adolescent picking holes in his sweater. That's a danger any band operating at this level of despondency potentially faces, but Trop Tard mostly get the balance right over the course of Too Late. The fact that they dropped into a hole and disappeared suggests they may have had a lack of confidence in their art, but there's also a nagging feeling that this wasn't a band built to survive the business end of the industry. It's difficult to picture a group with such a worldweary weight on its shoulders doing promo, making videos, signing contracts. Too Late finally provides some space to get that immovable ache out into the world. "}