{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18439/homepage_large.e8b67f0b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Steven Hyden","artist":"Paul Banks","title":"Banks","text":" Like so many rock stars before him, Interpol frontman Paul Banks launched a solo career as an outlet for music he felt he couldn't make with his band. But Banks' work under his original solo guise, Julian Plenti, was essentially in the same vein as Interpol's hooky, glowering postpunk. Now he's dropped the Julian Plenti façade and is recording under his given name, even going so far as to call his new record Banks. The suggestion seems to be that we're finally going to get some real, unfiltered Paul Banks this time around. But Banks presents an artist who has matured but hasn't established a strong sense of individual identity. The Interpol of its iconic post9/11, early 2000s Turn on the Bright Lights period was, if not a dance band, then a coke and Red Bull nightlife outfit. The atmosphere was dark, but the tempos were electric and celebratory, sprinting into rain and rubblestreaked New York City streets with the abandon of survivors determined to chase away demons and seek out fun while it still can be had. Banks, in contrast, is sluggish, unsteady, and ultimately noncommittal about forward motion.  Paul Banks worked on Banks over the course of two years during free time on the road with Interpol. As Banks told Drowned in Sound, the songs started out as a diversion, offering a form of release and entertainment as he endured the boring monotony of touring on a bigtime rock tour. But the enthusiasm doesn't come through. The album is a pea soup of gray synths, middling midtempo rhythms, and Banks' ghostofgoth'spast vocals. On \"Over My Shoulder\", a syncopated, clattering beat comes to tortured, lurching life, but the whole operation is so joyless that it's rendered impotent. Ditto for the triphoppy opener \"The Base\", where Banks' flat, monotone vocal drones over an anemically grinding guitar like a last breath about to rise from a barely pulsating body.  Banks telegraphs a deep sense of gloom and ennui brought on by the patina of middle age. If Paul Banks once made music designed as a soundtrack for staying out all night, he now sounds like a guy who'd prefer to turn in by 10. But acting more grownup doesn't necessarily make Banks seem any wiser. On \"Paid For That\", he awkwardly reaches for insightful introspection about the aging process, musing—in his trademark lyrical Esperanto that \"sometimes I think I coexist with me/ And one side makes me old/ And one side makes me struggle/ I was on the night shift/ I said I'll never learn to fight like this.\" That line is crystal clear compared with the confounding melodrama of \"Young Again\", which includes one of Banks' alltime headscratchers: \"Jobs are disgraceful/ They tick like suffering from a clock.\" But the main problem with Banks isn't the muddled words, it's the uninvolving music. Some of the tracks simply aren't given the chance to reach their potential: \"No Mistakes\" and \"I'll Sue You\" aren't great songs necessarily, but they'd sound a lot better if they were played by a good band (like, say, Interpol) that could give them a groove and a stronger sense of purpose. But Paul Banks' primary concern with Banks seems to be with creating a uniform mood of malevolence. The pretty \"Arise, Awake\" and the demented \"Young Again\" achieve this reasonably well, but they hardly play to Banks' strength, which is mining pop gold out of the contrast between the inertia of his polarizing vocals and swift, assured music. When the music is as stationary as Banks is, the result is unsurprisingly static. Then again, some of the material on Banks would be weak even with better presentation, like the instrumental \"Lisbon\", which is inoffensive background music and not much more. The best song by a mile on Banks, the albumclosing \"Summertime Is Coming\", was already released this summer on the Julian Plenti Lives… EP. As Brian Howe wrote in his review, \"the liquid guitar line of 'Summertime' is enticingly familiar a welcome reminder in all the hodgepodge that Banks' music has specific good qualities.\" In other words, the best parts of Banks are the ones that most resemble Interpol, rather than the stabs at spooky, oldguy mopepop that comprise most of the record. In that respect, this album fails as a valid statement outside of the confines of Banks' band. But as sour as Banks ultimately is, it doesn't automatically preclude him from having a worthy solo career. He could potentially forge a new direction away from Interpol, just not this direction.  "}