{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18456/homepage_large.e2fbd515.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Lindstrøm","title":"Smalhans","text":" HansPeter Lindstrøm is not one for concise statements: The Norwegian spacedisco producer once put out an album with a 30minute lead track and then followed that release with a 45minute cover of \"Little Drummer Boy\". But now comes the comparatively modest Smalhans, Lindstrøm's second release in 2012 following this past winter's Six Cups of Rebel. The latter was a wildly experimental record from an artist known for subtle shifts, so Smalhans will inevitably be heard as a backtobasics effort. Even ignoring that the song titles draw from traditional Norwegian dishes (Lindstrøm told SPIN that \"Ęggędōsis\" consists of \"egg and sugar mixed together,\" which is as basic as you can get), the six tracks are nofrills versions of Lindstrøm doing what he does best: endlessly spiraling, cosmic dance that maintains an earthy humanity.  Occasionally, Lindstrøm's sense of comfort on Smalhans betrays him. The record's lead track and single, \"Rààkõst\", features a melody very close to \"Further Into the Future\", a cut from 2006's It's a Feedelity Affair. But most of the time he sounds like an accomplished master at work. Take \"Fāārikāāl\", a sixandahalf minute trip that builds an endless melodic ladder before letting the floor drop out to unveil weightless bliss. This sort of buildandrelease taking an arpeggiated melody and pushing it as far as it can go, until it's about to burst at the seams is a Lindstrøm speciality. Smalhans reaffirms that no one does it better.  The album was mixed by Norwegian kindred spirit Todd Terje, and there are plans to release extend Terje edits of every song on the album as 12\" singles. The pairing is timely. Terje's been in this game almost as long as Lindstrøm but 2012 has been very much his year. Following last year's gorgeous \"Snooze 4 Love\", the absolutely crushedoutheavenly \"Inspector Norse\", from this year's solid It's the Arps EP, stands to be one of the best singles of the year in any genre. Lindstrøm teaming with him is a case of game recognizing game. But he shouldn't be worried: Smalhans is a reliably generous gesture from an artist that takes pleasure in indulging himself and his audience. If you found Six Cups to be a troubling detour, here's your chance to breathe easy again. "}