{"label":" Muscle Tone","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1712/homepage_large.0c4b82b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John O'Connor","artist":"Cobra Verde","title":"Easy Listening","text":" The dreary, cluttered aura of a Midwestern, twocar, suburban garage hangs heavily over Clevelandbased indie rock quartet Cobra Verde's third fulllength, Easy Listening. Listening to this thing, I can see a scene from which the music originally sprung: sleeveless black t's, ducktaped bassdrum, microphone dangling from an overhead light, Stooges and Bowie posters pinned beside Dad's workbench. Since Viva La Muerte was released a little less than ten years ago, Cobra Verde's sound has exuded this type of heavyhanded rock romanticism. Full of thrashing guitars, pulverizing drums and tightly harmonized choruses, their songs mimic the feverish abandon and catchy intensity of the Buzzcocks, The Who and Hüsker Dü, while emulating more literate forebears like The Kinks and MC5. It's an unapologetically hybridized sound that, for a very brief time, seemed on the verge of growing into something new. While some people have characterized Cobra Verde's music as \"bombastic\" a word that's usually taken to mean \"pompous\" (what I think they actually mean is \"incredibly loud\") I tend to think of it more as destructively melodic. The pounding, relentless rhythms are baldly formulaic from song to song, but they have a cumulative effect that, by album's end, leaves nerveendings satisfyingly rattled and arm hairs standing on end. Depending on your temperament, this can be either a cathartic or disembodying experience, but regardless of how it hits you, Cobra Verde, to their great credit, never stand on ceremony. Each song is skinandbones rock: unpretentious, fierce and insolent. Unfortunately, about halfway through the album, the sound wears itself out, as the samey melodies edge towards the toofamiliar, like the narrative arc of a Jerry Bruckheimer film, and, I hasten to add, the vocal harmonizing on the choruses borders on the diarrheic. As the album slogs on, the songs seem to become battles of will between the individual musicians, with singer John Petkovic's already toneddown vocals getting pushed largely to the background. The wallofsound of guitars and drums loses its frenetic, ardent profundity, and instead sounds merely like ornament to a lazily crafted song. Despite these shortcomings, Easy Listening does showcase its share of surprises. A memorable one comes during \"Til Sunrise\", where Petkovic's bleak, understated lyrics coalesce with the scratchy riffs from Frank Vazzano's guitar and Mark Klein's heavymetal drumming into a luminous, Bob Mouldworthy hook. In a song that radiates a lessthanhappy feeling, Petkovic wails, \"Everything looks beautiful/ With blurry eyes.../ You're not you/ I'm not me/ We're as good as we can be.\" \"To Your Pretty Face\" has a catchy, almost country rhythm, until a 60s psychrock organ creeps in on the chorus and the track shifts gears into a Jefferson AirplanemeetsSparklehorse mindfuck. It's one of the better songs on the album, and the one on which Petkovic manages finally to get his voice out in front of the crashing cymbals and guitars. On \"My Name is Nobody\", the drums again take precedence and Petkovic struggles to make himself heard. But make no mistake, he is there, singing morosely, \"By the time I got to Phoenix/ I was halfway to hell.\" The hauntingly textured \"Throw It Away\" is a nod to Irish drinking ballads. One can almost see Petkovic, equipped with tweed jacket and gravystained suspenders, toasting a longgone bonny lass: \"Drink to what isn't here/ Raise a glass to the dead and gone.\" Cobra Verde has largely shirked the exposure of their Guided by Voices affiliation and publicityobsessed peers. They remain in Cleveland, where the various members teach, write, run a recording studio and practice juggling on the side. Petkovic said in an interview recently, \"I have another job and I am reconciled to the fact that, whether [the record] sells or not, I'm just going to have fun.\" This is a refreshing departure from the selfsatisfied ballyhoo typical of rockstars. If he ever changes his mind, though, I have a pretty good feeling that Cobra Verde could hit it big in New York. "}