{"label":" Monkeytown","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18453/homepage_large.772de3e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Larry Fitzmaurice","artist":"Mouse on Mars","title":"WOW","text":" Throughout their 20year career, Andi Toma and Jan St. Werner of Mouse on Mars have mixed traditional instrumentation with electronic textures that range from warm (1995's Iaora Tahiti) to brittle and disjointed (2001's Idiology). The ability to surprise and keep their followers on their toes made Mouse on Mars' work enthralling and impossible categorize. Their refusal to stay in one place could also make them seem outofstep in a charming way. But if you zoom out a little, you can see a gradual and defined path Mouse on Mars have taken over the past 15 years. The pair's forward chug came to a head on this year's excellent Parastrophics, which was made to sound, in St. Werner's words, \"as digital as possible.\" It was a dense, colorfully overstuffed album that found St. Werner and Toma aligned with electronic music's current maximalist sound while still retaining their sense of themselves.  WOW, Mouse on Mars' second release this year, is a companion piece to Parastrophics and has a similar approach. But where Parastrophics' gestation was long and involved, WOW was conceived and recorded in a matter of weeks. The relative ease is apparent in the music. There's still a lot going on here at 33 minutes, even a deep listen feels like being smacked with a whirlwind of ideas but the longer compositions' raw elements are allowed more space to linger and develop. Here, Mouse on Mars focus on a deconstruction of the wonky, oddball bass music common to Modeselektor's Monkeytown imprint. \"We are still essentially the free jazz part of Monkeytown,\" St. Werner told The Stool Pigeon in February of this year. \"We never really liked electronic dance music before, but now we like some.\" The album's first extended cut, \"DOG\", is a fine example of how Mouse on Mars riff on an established idea. The track starts with a few simple, eerie tones before settling into a ruddy bassline that practically squeaks against the speakers. With every repetition of that figure, something new happens a cluster of highpitched video game sounds, a sly change in rhythm, what sounds like a jet engine being sucked into another jet engine. Finally, only the track's original skeleton is recognizable, and you get a sense of just how much it has morphed.  WOW lacks the gutpunch energy of Parastrophics, but it's still an enjoyable twist on what else can be done with the already malleable world of bass music; once again Mouse on Mars refuse to stay in one place, but they almost always head somewhere interesting.  "}