{"label":" Stolen","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18463/homepage_large.a4e4e645.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Race Horses","title":"Furniture","text":" For their inspired 2010 debut, Goodbye Falkenburg, Welsh pop fops Race Horses entrusted themselves with the modest but commendable task of honoring the madcap legacy of ancestral countrymen Super Furry Animals and Gorky's Zygotic Mynci. Now, they're ready to take on the rest of the British isles: Furniture handily displaces the loopy 60spsychedelic and 70sglam influences of their debut for a bright 80s New Pop sheen and the skyscraping grandeur that defined mid90s Britpop. But the shift is philosophical as music as it is sonic: Where Goodbye Falkenburg spoke of love and courtship in cheeky, suggestive language, Furniture in the arch, observational tradition of ABC and Pulp uses its sleek sophistication not just to gloss over the straightfaced tales of emotional woe described within, but as an analogue to the procedural, commoditized nature of modern romance. On the opening title track, frontman Meilyr Jones sounds the death knell for a failing relationship by declaring, \"We are furniture.\" By that token, listening to Furniture feels not unlike flipping through an IKEA catalog it's easy to get lured in by the pretty surfaces and marvel at the inventiveness at play but, after a while, a certain sterility starts to take hold. At least Race Horses ease you into the album's more despairing worldview from the outset, the band is game to play up the knowing contrast between what's being said and how they're saying it. The aforementioned chorus of \"we are furniture\" is delivered less as an insult than a cathartic first step toward postbreakup liberation, while on the winsome \"Mates\", Jones begs an ex to revert to the platonic terms of their prehookup friendship. And in lieu of a new postreunion Pulp album, we have \"Sisters\", which vividly evokes both the breezy, popromantique flair of His N Hers and Jarvis Cocker's voyeuristic, borderlinepervy intimations. But while it's inevitable that a young band brimming with manic energy will buckle up and simmer down, on Furniture, Race Horses' rapid maturation can feel a little jarring: The synthspeckled piano march \"Nobody's Son\" boasts the kind of instantly anthemic chorus that could spark a football stadium full of cigarette lighters, but it's also the most incongruous track here, as it sacrifices the band's peculiar personality for arenarock proficiency. And their attempts to get serious yield mixed results: While \"Bad Blood\" successfully channels its anxieties through an intensifying, startstop structure and ticking synthetic cymbal effect, the equally agitated \"My Year Abroad\" and \"See No Green\" are bogged down by overwrought, repetitive choruses. So it's fitting that this transitory album, preoccupied as it is with romantic upheaval, should close with an somber, affecting piano ballad titled \"Old and New\", with an extended onechord outro that effectively conjures the titular state of purgatory, and the difficulty of letting go and moving on. It's a sentiment that applies equally to Furniture's emotionally stagnant protagonists as to Race Horses themselves it's better to attempt great strides and risk stumbling than to get left in the dust. "}