{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18470/homepage_large.9d6f36dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Clinic","title":"Free Reign","text":" Now 15 years into their career, Clinic have left their surgical masks on longer than KISS initially kept on their makeup, and this rigid visual motif makes it easy to overlook the Liverpool artrock quartet's evolution. We've grown accustomed to conflating an artist's musical progression with their changing appearances like when they go through a beardo phase, or get illadvised newwave haircuts, or start wearing guyliner. But Clinic always look like Clinic, which reinforces the idea that they always sound like Clinic. Even when the band embraced softpop melody and openhearted lyricism on 2010's knowingly titled Bubblegum, it seemed to only amplify this band's inherent, ineffable strangeness.  Those masks aren't just a gimmicky extension of Clinic's name; they're also a visual manifestation of the band's meticulous approach, as they've taken a scalpel to music from the 1960s and 70s the Monks, Sparks, Joe Meek, krautrock and stitched their favorite bits into new, mutant forms. But compared to the concise structures of their six previous albums, on Free Reign, the band behaves less like surgeons and more like scientists who favor exploration and patience. The game plan this time is to switch their analog synths to the \"Suicide\" setting and see where the drones take them.  The more openended ethos also extends to the band's choice of mixer: Daniel Lopatin aka Oneohtrix Point Never. Lopatin's avantelectronic soundscaping has little in common with Clinic's compact collagerock, but his influence seems less about sound than spirit. Clinic show a greater willingness to let these songs unfurl according to their own logic and pace: The slowpercolating opener, \"Misty\", doesn't reveal its chiming, churchly Spiritualizedlike keyboard hook until a good two minutes in, which is usually the point when Clinic are wrapping a song up. It's also the first of four songs here to crack the fiveminute mark, heretofore uncharted territory in the Clinic canon. But as Free Reign shows, when Clinic take their time, they can build up a bewitching groove. The album's twin highlights, \"Miss You\" and \"You\", are similarly titled, similarly structured, and similarly libidinous exercises in discoCan decadence; while a touch too slow for dancefloor traction, they both get impressively freakier and funkier the longer they stretch out. \"Seamless Boogie Woofie BBC2 10\" works the same trick in more abbreviated form, while proving that even a chorus of \"you're beautiful\" can sound creepily sinister when coming from everenigmatic vocalist Ade Blackburn. But if Free Reign posits Clinic as unlikely heirs to the LCD Soundsystem legacy of postpunky electrorock, it also reveals the mess they made along the way. \"See Saw\" practically kills the album's momentum before it even gets going, with a maddeningly repetitious caveman stomp that sounds like a practicespace goof. \"Cosmic Radiation\" and \"Sun and the Moon\" meanwhile, offer glimpses of Clinic as jam band, with Blackburn's omnipresent melodica squawking over the former's aimless, wahwah'ed jazzfunk rhythm, while the latter's loose blues ramble imagines the lateera Doors gone dub. But in between Free Reign's two extremes of taut groove and directionless doodle Clinic also add to their deepening catalog of disarmingly affecting ballads with \"For the Season\", a wistful whisper of a song that inspires scenes of slow dances in empty ballrooms. It may be the most atypical track here, but on an album that so doggedly documents the process of experimentation, it's a welcome moment where Clinic can let down the mask and enjoy a breather. "}