{"label":" Bubble Core","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1714/homepage_large.1b9955c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Child's View","title":"Funfair","text":" In early 1999, Nobukazu Takemura, recording as Child's View, quietly made his U.S. debut with the release of Funfair. Later that year, Thrill Jockey released the more abstract and difficult Scope, and, for better or worse, all the root ideas of the many, many Takemura records that followed can be found in these two albums. Listening to Funfair upon its reissue and having absorbed Hoshi No Koe, Sign, Water Suite, 10th, Songbook and Assembler/Assembler 2, I have to wonder: What the hell happened? How did this inventive artist, a guy who borrowed from posttechno IDM, pop, minimalism and 90s glitch and fashioned a readily identifiable and emotionally potent music of his own, come to turn out such inconsistent records mired in tedium? Takemura's oddly prolific artistic stagnation comes in part from his inability to move on once he's developed an interested technique. Funfair contains early recorded examples of several ideas he would go on to explore ad nauseam. The opening \"The Cradle of the Light\", for example, an achingly beautiful track that sounds like a skipping musicbox, works from essentially the same source material as Scope's \"Icefall\". This particular example of recycling never bothered me because the feel of the two tracks is so different. Where \"Icefall\" changes direction with a randomness that approaches violence, \"The Cradle of the Light\" is calm and serene, like a busted carousel speaker that continues to cycle through the same predictable but fascinating patterns. \"After Image\" comes later on Funfair but explores similar territory in terms of texture, and this time Takemura runs the simple bells through the shredder, creating an aural equivalent to a film that's lost its synchronization and flickers uncontrollably. Shifting gears, \"Saburé\" is one of Takemura's first and best stabs at tinkertoy electropop. Takemura emphasizes his synthetic vibe and miniMoog melodies with cartoonish jungle breakbeats, which, five years on, impart a quaintness that only enhances the light and playful tone. That \"Saburé\" also closes the album in a successful live cover version by The Dylan Group underscores Takemura's songwriting skill during this period. Absent his masterfully patched synths and chopped rhythms, \"Saburé\" still makes for a captivating instrumental rock piece (no mean feat, that). The Dylan Group's acoustic guitars and simple keyboards demonstrate that Takemura was actually writing riffs, and it's great to hear his digitized vibes translated into the rich, extended tones of the real thing. Around this time The Dylan Group was also covering Aphex Twin, proving how well flexible wellcrafted IDM with hints of pop could be translated into a live setting. The centerpiece of Funfair is the 15minute \"Pendulum\". As she did on Scope's \"Kepler\" and the earlier \"Wax & Wane\", frequent Takemura collaborator Aki Tsuyuko offers her childlike voice to be looped and manipulated inside a forest of hypnotic Reichian percussion. \"Pendulum\" is its own world, however, slow, blurry, drugged and dreamy where the others are crisp and bright. Xylophone, bass clarinet and organ provide the main instrumental accompaniment, but the various vocal loops are what make the track. I've heard some people describe \"Pendulum\" as a piece of crushing sadness, but I hear something else inside it, a sense of wonder tinged with danger because it all sounds a bit too open and defenseless. \"Pendulum\" is one of the best two or three tracks Takemura has recorded, and probably one of my twenty favorites by anybody in the last five years. Finally, there's \"Assi Que Dodo\" a more tuneful piece that seems a direct forbear to Takemura's Songbook experiments. Unlike the majority of Songbook, the melody on \"Assi Que Dodo\" is on point, even if it's not good enough to justify the song's 12 minutes. Of course, that this is the worst track says a lot about the overall quality of Funfair. While all the Takemura records since have a least flashes of brilliance (particularly Hoshi No Koe), they also have far too many skipable tracks, and some are downright painful to sit through in their entirety. But once upon a time his records were different. With Funfair, Takemura knew how to make an album work, and sadly, he hasn't made a consistently great fulllength since. "}