{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18472/homepage_large.9f22a37c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Eternal Tapestry","title":"A World Out Of Time","text":" Both words in Eternal Tapestry's name say something about their music, but it's the first that's key. This Portland band's expansive psych rock sounds like it could go on forever, and most of their releases have in fact been culled from longer, openended improvisations. The way they slowly build these jams adding parts, increasing volume, and cresting in unison you get the feeling they're always playing, and their records are just glimpses of an endless stream. For A World Out of Time, Eternal Tapestry's second fulllength of 2012, the band took a less longform approach. Instead of jamming endlessly and picking sections from the results, they recorded the album, according to press materials, \"as a whole.\" This presumably means they performed one set of focused, purposeful sessions, but it doesn't mean there's a onetoone ratio between what was laid to tape and what's included. In fact, this is the band's most collageoriented release, offering varied sounds fused with hard cuts, crossfades, and even outdoorsy ambience. Still, there's more efficiency and clarity on A World Out of Time than any previous Eternal Tapestry album. While each song could pass for a portion of a larger jam, they all get to the point rapidly. Well, almost all of them opener \"When I Was in Your Mind\" is 12plus minutes of wandering guitar jangle. But after that, every track is pretty concise most last less than five minutes and none go over seven. Remarkably, this brevity comes with little loss of space or freedom. That's probably because the group has so much experience at playing for longer. The chemistry they've built over all those sessions makes them able to step on the gas quickly and naturally, which is why they can make a fourminute song sound as wideopen as a halfhour excursion. My favorite example is \"The Weird Stone\", a masterpiece of slowburning, perfectlyoverlapping guitars, all driven by Jed Bindeman's limber drumming, which combines garage primacy with jazzlike flexibility. In a flash, the band evokes numerous psychjam forefathers I hear the Grateful Dead, Hawkwind, and the undersung Japanese band Marble Sheep and the Run Down Sun's Children while adding accents and textures that avoid outright mimicry. Some might find that last claim debatable. Admittedly, Eternal Tapestry rely on wellworn psych moves, some of which verge on cliché. One song, \"Apocalypse Troll\", cops a riff so familiar it must have inhabited multiple classic rock songs before. Another, closer \"Sand Into Rain\", sounds like a sloweddown tribute to Donovan's \"Hurdy Gurdy Man\". Eternal Tapestry embraces other tropes common to this kind of music as well at least four songs share titles with scifi and fantasy tomes by the likes of Isaac Asimov and Harlan Ellison. But to me the band's commitment to diving deep into psychrock tradition actually helps them stand out. Their unapologetic sound isn't an opportunistic gloss on the past, but rather a fullon exploration that enhances and moves history forward. Sometimes a group this versed in a genre, this able to tap its depths, is best equipped to further it. Judging by A World Out of Time, Eternal Tapestry's well won't run dry anytime soon. "}