{"label":" Hemlock","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18481/homepage_large.ebf037cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mike Powell","artist":"Various","title":"Hemlock Recordings: Chapter One","text":" When London label Hemlock started in 2008, the term \"dubstep\" meant something different than it does now: There was no such thing as Skrillex or Taylor Swift songs with vaguely dubstepinfluenced choruses. Dubstep was not used to market cereal. The music had started out as another step in a continuum leading from Jamaican reggae through British techno; the most mainstream versions of it now function more or less like arena rock, with hot guitar solos replaced by \"heavy, dirty, filthy\" bass drops. This isn't a eulogy for what dubstep was or a criticism of what it became, just a statement of fact: times change, things trend, and what was once essentially just a genre of underground dance music having awkward brushes with popular culture is now a brightly colored Hot Topic tshirt declaring, finally, SEX, DRUGS & DUBSTEP.  The role labels like Hemlock played in this transformation is pretty negligible. Even before dubstep's more widescale commercialization, they represented a boutique alternative whose releases were more diverse and usually less immediate than more iconically dubstep artists like Digital Mystikz, folding in house, electro, minimal and other sounds from outside the sphere.  The label's cofounder, Jack Dunning who records as Untold makes violent, corrosive little sound sculptures that resemble people trying desperately to catch their breath or the clangonclang of demolition sites. In a quote that stands as one of my favorite statements of artistic purpose, he once told Resident Advisor that, \"I want to make people screwface, shout, dance weird.\" Hemlock put out James Blake's phenomenally great first single and remix, which sound like gospel if gospel were designed to terrify you instead of make you feel safe; they've also put out singles by magpies like Ramadanman and Fantastic Mr. Fox.  Presented as an hourlong Untold mix with a few new, unmixed extras tacked on, Hemlock Recordings Chapter One tries to tell a story of the label as it stands now. Almost 20 minutes of the mix is new material, including the tackedon songs. \"The tracks I play these days are basically house or electro, but made by producers who came through dubstep,\" Dunning said in an interview last year. \"People are writing stuff that sounds like minimal techno, grime, juke etc, but it has a twist, an edge that carries through some of the trademarks of the original dubstep sound sub bass, darkness, space and unpredictability.\" As evidence of his own argument, Dunning's mix moves in roughly chronological order, from the label's stuttering, lopsided first singles to its firm, houseinfluenced recent output. The change isn't just rhythmic, either: Hemlock's early tracks sounded hard, flat and airless, like the music had been vacuumpacked, while a lot of the midmix material especially Guy Andrew's \"Resistivity\" and Sei A's \"Hyphen\" sounds like its playing from inside a fog bank. (For a visual metaphor, try a Piet Mondrian next to a Gerhardt Richter.) For a celebration of the past, it's a progressive and unsentimental attitude to take, but Dunning has always seemed like an admirably progressive and unsentimental artist he knows that all these familiar oldies were once new, too. But the format has its drawbacks. Some of the best older tracks have clever, winding structures that make them more interesting as starttofinish pieces of music than raw materials to chop up and use in a mix. There's also something a little inbred about hearing an hour of tracks coming from the same place, even when a third of them are new. More than anything, the mix just seems like a formality the thing that techno labels do because other techno labels do it. What it reveals about Hemlock is, again, what Dunning wants it to reveal: They never had a single exclusive sound to begin with. The affiliations between the artists here have less to do with dubstep and more to do with a misfit love of nasty sounds probably best exemplified by Dunning himself. He has said that his own pseudoscientifically titled Change in a Dynamic Environment EPs from this year were attempts to use dance music's tendency toward short releases to capture small shifts in personal style, as well as evidence of his almost compulsive predisposition toward the new. There's something sentimental about a commemorative release for a label that has only been around for four years. At least with Dunning you can take comfort in the knowledge that if they ever do this again, the sound will have changed just as much, if not more. "}