{"label":" Broken Spine","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18663/homepage_large.0e6db21a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Nadja","title":"Dagdrøm","text":" You don't so much throw on a Nadja album as dunk your head in one; the smoggy haze of fuzz and scuzz that permeates the Berlinbased doomgaze duo's albums is so relentless and allconsuming that, after a while, it starts to feel as comforting and commonplace as oxygen. But something remarkable happens at the beginning of Nadja's new album, and that is: nothing at all. In place of the impenetrable wall of noise that usually greets you on their many recordings, there's just the quiet murmur of Leah Buckareff's bass, the ticktock tap of a cymbal, and a complete absence of Aidan Baker's effectspedal onslaught by Nadja standards, this is the equivalent of cutting an Unplugged session. Of course, this sense of serenity lasts for just 60 seconds, upon which that barren bassline is amplified into the tsunamisized sludge of \"One Sense Alone\". But by offering that tentative tease, and unleasing the noise in more controlled spurts, Nadja offer a glimpse of something not always discernible on their previous records: their immense sense of scale. Nadja's capacity for heaviness has never been in doubt, but Dagdrøm lets you really feel the weight of it all. And it's a heft measured not just by volume, but by how long it takes to dissipate, each shock of distortion lingering like the tingles in a sleeping foot being shaken awake. The greater definition heard on Dagdrøm is a logical extension of Nadja's 2009 covers album, When I See the Sun Always Shines on TV, though the dreadridden vibe in effect here is informed much more by their stalking take on Slayer's \"Dead Skin Mask\" than their hazyheady drift through Elliott Smith's \"Needle in the Hay\". And for that you can thank the recruitment of the Jesus Lizard's Mac McNeilly, the kind of drummer you'd be foolish to bury under too much dreamy drone. McNeilly (who also appeared on the intensely prolific Baker's recent solo double album, The Spectrum of Distraction) doesn't try to destablize Nadja's signature slowmotion sway; in Lizardian terms, his default mode here is more \"Monkey Trick\" than \"Boilermaker\". But McNeilly's martial, militaristic hits lend Nadja a noticeably more threatening momentum. And they provide a predatory percussive complement to Baker's mostly obscured delivery, which here sounds less informed by My Bloody Valentine's vaporous vocals than the ominous mutterings of Slint's Brian McMahan. If Touch & Go Records had gotten in on the doommetal game back in 1991, it would've sounded a lot like this. Dagdrøm contains four tracks that average 11 minutes each, and though they're presented as discrete pieces, each is similar in mood and execution, and each plays off the one before it as a variation on the same foreboding theme. \"Falling Out of Your Head\" effectively chops the riff of \"One Sense Alone\" in half and doubles the tension, leading a Spiderlandstark lurch to an accelerated, increasingly punishing climax; the title track immediately resumes the inthered onslaught, but gradually winds down, reducing its onceimposing refrain to expose the tranquil melody underpinning it. It's followed by the closing \"Space Time & Absence\", a song that likewise showcases Nadja's sonic extremities, but on an evermore epic scale: McNeilly's galloping, tribal beat propels the song into a gargantuan groove, before yielding to a hushed, drawnout comedown that keeps threatening to erupt once again, like a horrormovie villain that just won't stay dead. And therein lies the key to Dagdrøm's daunting mystique: You're never really sure if what you're hearing is the calm before the storm or the storm before the calm. "}