{"label":" Tompkins Square","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18497/homepage_large.c3ee440b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Work Hard, Play Hard, Pray Hard: Hard Time, Good Time & End Time Music, 1923-1936","text":" On a recent Monday afternoon, just hours before Americans headed to the polls to pick their next President, CNN published a story entitled \"Election 2012: What About the Poor?\" The surprisingly concise piece surveyed the approaches to the recessionenhanced poverty of candidates Barack Obama and Mitt Romney, glancing at proposed cuts or boosts to Medicaid, food stamps, and tax credits and the effects they'd have on those below the poverty line. \"One wants to strengthen the nation's existing safety net, Tami Luhby wrote, referring to the incumbent. \"The other wants to overhaul it.\" In only three days, the piece generated nearly 4,000 comments, largely a seesaw of partisan bickering about the inherent fecklessness of the unemployed or the itinerant greed that led the nation to its current \"fiscal cliff.\" But as much as the onslaught of responses is indicative of the polarized politics of America in 2012, it also offered an insight into another nearimmortal scenario not poverty or welfare, but the endless cycle of going to work to pay the bills, accumulated in the quest to enjoy life a little bit. Some commenters resented those that, for some reason or another, weren't required to join that drudgery; others lamented not having the chance to join the drudgery. It is, after all, one of society's most familiar and profound conditions.   That is the pivotally resonant point of Work Hard, Play Hard, Pray Hard, a collection of 42 songs recorded between 1923 and 1936 and sorted eight decades later into three compact discs, each named for a respective phrase of that titular series. The thesis comes condensed by David McCarn, a Carolina cottonmill worker who eventually took to riding the rails, on his guitarandharmonica trot, \"Poor Man, Rich Man (Cotton Mill Colic No. 2)\". His boss is a terror, and his wages are slim; his debts are high, however, and his belly is hungry. But at least he and his peers \"take a little drink to have a little fun,\" the premise of Play Hard's Prohibitionera songs of homemade beer and cornliquor hootenannies. There's a resiliency to McCarn's song, too; his voice metes his situation with, at once, playfulness and resilience. He's staying alive, he sings between the lines, because there must be something more than this.  These three discs offer a week's worth of songs recorded before or during The Great Depression, and as importantly, at the apogee or end of Prohibition: There's MondaythroughFriday music for whistling about work, Saturday music for and about the joys of drinking and dancing, and Sunday morning spirituals with their eyes on a distant but unwavering salvation. Even if you don’t share the particular beliefs, there’s a joy to this hopefulness, to this belief in some success awaiting the end of a grinding daily toil. That's the feeling that this set summarizes.  A few of these cuts will be familiar to even casual listeners: Warren Caplinger's Cumberland Mountain Entertainers contribute a prowling version of \"McDonald's Farm\", complete with shoutalong harmonies and barnyard noises. Earl Johnson files a loose take on \"When the Roses Bloom Again for the Bootlegger\", an incarcerated lament set to the tune of an old familiar number since reworked by countless singers and bands, from Johnny Cash to Wilco.  But unless you're an expert (and, in some cases, even if you are), many of these tracks and the peculiarities of the singers and instrumentalists who cut them will be complete surprises, offering the same avenues for exploration and preponderance as a history documentary or, in some cases, mystery theater. The stories of Red Gay & Jack Wellman, for instance, aren't wellknown, but their twopart \"Flat Wheel Train Blues\" is completely mesmerizing, its clickclack guitar and strangely melancholic fiddle displaying life on the rails as one of rote insistence and tiny adventures. It's implicitly a song about begrudging work but finding some way to love it just enough to live with it. \"The Beer Party\", a threeminute mix of a variety show and a stringband barn dance, suggests country music as a rarified form of function and fashion, with the band serving as a jukebox upon the coronation of a new keg. On the frantic Tennessee Ramblers tune \"The Preacher Got Drunk and Laid Down His Bible\", the secular taunts the sacred with a drunk reverend and a faithfully unfaithful woman seemingly risky stuff for a string band in the rural South during the middle of Prohibition. And on Pray Hard, \"Beyond the Starry Plane\" endlessly intrigues beneath a layer of noise etched by time into the groove. It's a call for ascendancy and assurance, faintly echoing nearly a century later. Nearly nothing is known about the band except this piece of faded incandescence. \"An infinitesimal point of communion,\" John Jeremiah Sullivan calls the droning number in the set's thorough liner notes. That's also an apt descriptor for Work Hard, Play Hard, Pray Hard, a set that does double duty by offering broad historical context and, thanks to the subjects of these songs, absolutely relevant commentary on the standing struggles of the proletariat, no matter current election results.  The bulk of the sides on Work Hard, Play Hard, Pray Hard were salvaged by guitarist and nascent archivist Nathan Salsburg. Nearly three years ago, a friend of Salsburg's called to say that he'd stumbled upon a trove of old and abused records in the home of a Kentucky man who died a week earlier. That night, Salsburg dug through boxes of ketchup bottles and old 78rpm records in a dumpster outside of the late man's home, steadily realizing that he'd found more than the standard collection of grandparent vinyl. Despite his early skepticism, Salsburg knew that the records amassed by Don Wahle an enigma with an almost entirely unknown backstory, aside from the dilapidated boxes of music and record catalogue receipts Salsburg rescued transmitted tales of folk and country music in America that were either previously obscure or altogether untold. This set comprises those stories.  There's something incredibly sweet and poignant about Wahle's narrative, or lack thereof. Though he once attempted to get into the business of selling some of these sides, there is, at least according to Salsburg, no evidence that he ever managed to sell anything. Instead, Salsburg found boxes of unopened LP reissues from the betterknown folkrescue labels in Wahle's house. These tunes, or the acquisition of them, seemed to have become his personal version of playing hard, a hobby and thrill that never funneled into academic output or commercial compensation. When he died, they almost passed along with him. But now, these songs are, like their subjects, for alltime, annotated by the impressively scholastic Salsburg and made available by Tompkins Square, a label that has joined the greats in broadening our understanding of music's breadth of both sound and story. Right now, especially, this collection is hard to put away. "}