{"label":" Brassland","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18492/homepage_large.0cfce771.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"People Get Ready","title":"People Get Ready","text":" Before Steven Reker and Luke Fasano met, they were making warmly inclusive, communally weird music in different groups. Reker was a dancer and a guitarist in David Byrne's touring band; Fasano was drumming for globalist artpop giants Yeasayer. They must have sensed similar yearnings in each other, because they soon split off to form People Get Ready, an \"interdisciplinary\" band that accompanies their music with choreographed live dance performance. Watching this clip gives a sense of the purposefully quirky performanceart vibe they're striving for. If it veers a little too closely to the interpretive dance sequence in The Big Lebowski, it is at least unique and striking, something that might stop you in your tracks if you passed it on the street. But People Get Ready, as we have it here, is an album, one with no visual aids except whatever browser tabs you might have open. Left to vie for your attention the way all albums have to, it succeeds only fitfully. People Get Ready play jagged, melodic, technically accomplished indie rock, a kind that encourages exactly the kind of alllimbsnohips movement you can find at, say, about 2:01 of the above clip. The songs' itchy emotional temperament and Reker's quavering tenor call to mind Dirty Projectors, and you can also hear both of Reker and Fasano's previous projects floating through the album's 37 minutes. What you can't hear, at least not yet, is the forging of a compelling, unique voice.  The album is most striking when the band members steer their brightly colored bounce into unguarded explosions. On brainy, visceral polyrhythmic workouts like \"Orange Grove\", where they're pummeling every hard surface you can imagine, any tension implied erupts into a dazzling electric storm. People Get Ready are masterful arrangers, filling the songs with small corners in which to get lost: I noticed the palmmuted guitar murmuring away behind the church organ and synthesizers of \"Orange Grove\" and couldn't stop tracking it. Produced by the composer and arranger Jherek Bischoff, People Get Ready sounds fantastic, and the members have a way with small riffs and details that act like hooks by themselves. \"Middle Name\" is a ballad with a pensive heart and caffeinated pulse you can hear in the nervously chittering maracas. The guitar line on \"Mr. Shoulders\" feels like a surfrock riff that has been twisted around itself like a wire. People Get Ready is packed with these sorts of details, but Reker's catholic tastes and facility let the album glide around a little too smoothly without an anchor. Maybe as a dance piece, Reker and Fasano's gawky, sheepishly enthusiastic aesthetic shines through more clearly, but too much of their debut album streams by without registering as more than \"pleasant.\" You can hear the glints of their vision in the album's smaller moments, though, and on the closing ballad \"A Squandering\", Reker invites us behind the looking glass, reminding us that this album is really just an excuse, and an invitation, to stand up and move: \"We walked in, and they were playing/ That new record a'squandering/ We couldn't help... you know... dancing.\" "}