{"label":" Dischord","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18508/homepage_large.d873864c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Douglas Wolk","artist":"The Evens","title":"The Odds","text":" Ian MacKaye, America's Angriest Teenager, is now 50 years old. He and Amy Farina, his partner in the Evens, have a fouryearold son. It's been six years since the previous Evens album. Fugazi played their final show to date 10 years ago this month. Anyone waiting for that explosive band to resume operations should not be holding their breath: MacKaye is presently no more (and no less) the guy who sang \"Bed for the Scraping\" than that guy was the one who sang \"Straight Edge.\"  One fascinating thing about MacKaye is that, for someone with a reputation as a worldclass control freak, he's always been extraordinarily good at collaboration. Now he's half of a twoperson partnership, in music as well as life, and drummer/singer Farina continues to be as much of a presence in their third album's songs as he is. They trade off lines, interject harmonies or commentary, rarely sing alone for more than a few seconds. (Her lyrics tend to be abstract and impressionistic, his concrete and argumentative.) Farina is a very precise but unusual drummer in the Evens, as with her earlier tenure backing up Lois Maffeo, she tends to play really hard in halftime, or to deliberately avoid the downbeat. So a lot of the beatkeeping role in this band belongs to MacKaye's baritone guitar; he'll often strum at twice Farina's tempo, or hold down a pulse on a single note while she plays around him. The Evens can work their way up to fury when they need to: on \"Wanted Criminals\", the closest thing to an oldfashioned Fugazi raveup here, they alternate an assaultive riff with MacKaye's ruthless sketch of the surveillance state. (\"Jails in search of prisoners,\" goes the refrain. Middleage softness has crept into his enunciation, but not his politics.) Mostly, though, they let negative space do their work for them. They're not just quiet, they're demonstrating their command of their power by not throwing it around. As careful as they are to avoid repeating themselves, you don't spend as many decades in music as the Evens have without having a sense of history's weight. MacKaye is also the guy who wrote \"Look Back and Laugh\" and \"Salad Days\" before he was 22 years old, and there are nods to the lesserknown crannies of independent rock's past scattered all over The Odds. The pinpoint bopbopbops and flutteringhanded guitar part of \"This Other Thing\" seem to be a tribute to another Washington, D.C.area duo, Jenny Toomey and Mark Robinson's early90s project Grenadine; the ringing bridge riff in \"Warble Factor\" is straight out of the Mission of Burma playbook. The only time they actually sound like cranky old folks is \"Competing with the Till\", a song about playing at a bar that didn't treat them as the true artistes they are. The boss complains that they're soundchecking while \"money's standing outside\"; eventually, MacKaye realizes that \"to him, all the people coming to the show were just there to pay his rent.\" The song's partly redeemed by goofy loungelizard piano playing and the Evens' gift for phrasemaking \"our audience is your clientele\" but they might also acknowledge that they have a clientele of their own. MacKaye once made a big point of being a kid, and now he's demonstrably not one in any way. But he's also always made a big point of moving forward and evolving, and of not being a careerist. The Odds is, in every way, the product of scaling down operations rather than of giving up or throwing the fans a nostalgia trip. It's fair to say that the Evens have set their target low and close; you could also call that intimacy. "}