{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18519/homepage_large.124bf625.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Steven Hyden","artist":"GRMLN","title":"Explore","text":" From the Beach Boys to Dr. Dre, from War to X, from Guns N' Roses to Kendrick Lamar, southern California has inspired more great driving music than any other part of the country. And so it goes for 19yearold college student and occasional surfer Yoodoo Park, who first started recording short, melancholic guitarpop songs as GRMLN two years ago for his own enjoyment while cruising around in his car. GRMLN's debut EP, Explore, collects seven of those tracks, which flit in and out over the course of 15 breezy minutes. It's a solid but slight record made by an artist who could produce something more substantial should he discover grander ambitions.  Based on Park's preference for pointillist guitars and subtly driving surfrock rhythms, it might have been easier for him just to play Real Estate or Beach Fossils CDs in his car, rather than make his own variation on the dreamy, nostalgic music those groups have come to personify. Explore's first single, \"Coral\", certainly doesn't break any new ground in the sad guy/sunny melody school of songwriting. For two minutes a circular guitar riff and stiffly syncopated drum beat set the tone for Park's moony deference for the ocean and the big, bright sun setting over it. \"It's all right,\" he sings in the chorus, which is about as decipherable as he gets on Explore. Park sings in a soft voice somewhere between a murmur and a sigh, preferring to let jangly sixstrings and pingpong basslines articulate the emotional core of his songs. While the guitars immediately jump out of the otherwise spare and direct songs on Explore, it's the brittle yet surprisingly nimble rhythm section that ultimately sticks. The drum part on \"Depressions\" is little more than a lightly tapped snare, but as the song settles into a hypnotic, relatively extended groove that pushes to nearly three minutes, Park exhibits a proclivity for quietly unfolding soundscapes that could really beguile if he ever gets a bigger recording budget. Conversely, the stripped down \"Live.Think.Die\" never really goes anywhere, as Park trills pleasantly over his unaccompanied guitar for a few minutes before suddenly stopping. Explore suggests that while Park can produce listenable songs that do right by their influences, he's still an inexperienced talent in the process of finding his own voice. The albumclosing \"Patio\" sounds weirdly like a leftcoast Bon Iver, with its ethereal acoustic strumming and falsetto vocal. It's a derivative curveball that pushes Explore in a more generic direction. Park is better off building on the emotional quality of his recent cover of Ben E. King's \"Stand By Me\". Like the most affecting parts of Explore, Park's \"Stand By Me\" is old fashioned, predictable, and probably shouldn't work as well as it does. But Park's guileless openheartedness is naive in the best possible sense. If he can combine that feeling with more sophisticated songwriting, he might have something. "}