{"label":" Wholly Other","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1718/homepage_large.4a75ec08.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Charalambides","title":"Unknown Spin","text":" Houston's Charalambides probably aren't providing the soundtrack to much other than their own meandering trip, but you could do a lot worse for yours than to let them in. There are scores of bands out there only too willing to let the tidal wave of fashion, bullshit trends and other cons of daily life niche them into your world. There are millions of CDs and MP3s out there to consume. At any given moment, you have access to so much music willing to play along to a numbing, corporate tune, and when I notice a band of minstrels so obviously anachronistic as this Texas trio, our mighty, muddy society's river seems all the more intimidating. Not that Tom and Christina Carter and Heather Leigh Murray are necessarily performing in protest. In fact, since 1991 their exploratory (or possibly just openminded) brand of freefolk has been closer to the domain of daydreams than political statements, so maybe I'm just living vicariously through their utter refusal to embrace most aspects of the music business or consumer culture in general. Kranky's reissue of last year's Unknown Spin originally available as a split with Scorces (a Murray/Christina Carter duo project) via a limited pressing CDR on their summer 2002 tour is like a lighthouse beacon for anyone sick of overkill in any respect. Improvisation plays a major role in Charalambides' music. Christina Carter's ghostly vocals drift through pieces like an autumn wind, without any particular place to go; Tom Carter and Murray's guitars draw from other notable nonscenesters like John Fahey and Richard Youngs, though Murray's steel keeps the music on Unknown Spin ever tied to classic blues and traditional American folk music. Despite having a knack for constructing bizarre tape collage experiments (as on parts of 1999's Houston) and psychraga drone (1995's Market Square), their music seems tied to the magic of the moment that is, they're able to make massive statements in minimal folk seem like the offhanded storytelling of an ancient, knowing local. In both cases, simple pleasures rely on your willingness to sit back, listen and pay no mind to the distractions of the modern world. The title track is a very lengthy excursion into just the kind of rootless, rural escapism described above. Beginning with a faint, minor chord strumming from Tom Carter and Murray's discordant, distant pedal steel, I get the feeling that, for better or worse, I'm in it for the long haul. Sometimes, the steel guitar is content to moan in the background, other times it lapses into the front via tense, dissonant figures. When Tom's arpeggio figure picks up steam, Christina enters with a simple, repeated vocal tone. Murray occasionally echoes her calls with a similarly passive plea in the left channel. The trio is a model of spacious, free coexistence, and you'd do pretty well to avoid the charms of their hypnosis. \"Unknown Spin\" progresses like a drop of milk in water; expanding slowly into countless intricate patterns, each a fascinating exercise in the holy schemata of nature. However, when the piece ends and I back away, it all seems one large, cloudy memory; the thrill of the moment as distant as a hundred yearold photograph. If there's one problematic aspect of Charalambides' sound, it's that some of their songs blend together so well that they run a risk of being indistinct from one another. Moments on Unknown Spin such as \"Magnolia\", which begins similarly to \"Unknown Spin\", with Tom's laidback electric guitar strum and Murray again entering on the left with delicate, deep singlenote pedal steel lines could be interchanged from song to song. Of course, when the results are so consistently spellbinding, I'm not likely to complain. \"Skin of Rivers\" does distinguish itself very nicely with the vocals of Christina Carter and Murray, sounding eerily like witches long since removed from casting curses, and content to fade away in the mist. For about five minutes, only the two female voices sound against each other though often so perfectly in unison as to simulate sine waves. When Tom Carter's guitar appears from the center, trembling restlessly, the effect is almost that of elation, despite the overall volume never rising above a whisper.Unknown Spin was recorded live in the studio, and as such, is a more straightforwardly folky sound for Charalambides than some of their other releases (most notably, the spooky, majestic Houston). I'm tempted to say it isn't necessarily the best starting place for the uninitiated because of its rather Spartan arrangement. However, I also get the feeling that its journeys are essentially the heart of Charalambides' music under any guise, and the real key is in your willingness to see them through. I wonder how many CDs ask so much of a listener, and if fewer still are able to deliver as much solemn resonance. In this case, patience and clarity pay in weightless shards of beauty. "}