{"label":" Stranded Rekords / Rocket Recordings","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18512/homepage_large.228565f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Goat","title":"World Music","text":" As the series of interviews they've given in recent months suggests, the Swedish band Goat is hilarious: In September, before their performance at Britain's Supersonic, the Quietus published its second talk with the evervague group. When writer Joe Clay asked who might headline the festival of that unnamed member's dreams, they answered, \"If Holger Czukay and Geezer Butler had a son, it would be him. Just him playing bass for a couple of days.\" The Goathead described the band's live performances as \"the harvesting of souls,\" and its lifestyle as \"invocations, prayers, and total rejoice!\" Beneath that jester veneer, though, there's a much more serious idealism at work here. As key member Christian Johansson told The Quietus in an earlier interview, Goat stems from a loose and longrunning collective of townspeople in Korpilombolo, a village with a population of a few hundred in the northwest hook of Sweden. Though people in the town have been playing under that name in various incarnations for several decades, the ninesong, steadyburning World Music is the unit's first proper release. That alleged tradition, it seems, is mostly an excuse for being a true band or collective rather than a collection of personalities, vying for the attention of microcelebrity at a time when that's easy enough to find. To wit, they wear masks on stage and discuss the details of membership who has been in the band, who will be in the band, who is currently in the band in incredibly ambiguous terms. \"In northern Sweden it is hard to explain in English it is about not drawing attention to yourself. The important thing is what you do, not who does it,\" explained Johansson. \"This is why we never have tried to make ourselves heard before now.\" The songs matter more than the sources. That approach of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts largely defines World Music, a psychedelic rock record that strangely never seems hyperbolic. It's fun and often dizzying, employing a kaleidoscope of unexpected tones and farflung influences. But it doesn't feel forced. Over insistent rhythms that suggest Spacemen 3 and, at least in spirit, the conjuring drones of Pandit Pran Nath and La Monte Young, Goat weave an ecumenical history of rock'n'roll. They intercept signals from Led Zeppelin and Funkadelic, Jefferson Starship and Fela Kuti, the Congos and the Rolling Stones, bending them into a resiliently consistent album. Sure, opener \"Diarabi\" finishes with a brief drum solo, but that span flows naturally from the song's steady ascent of tangled guitars and distant keyboards; it feels less like a solo than the end of the song. \"Let it Bleed\" is a mildly funky number with powerfully strutting (and anonymous) female vocals, suggesting ESG in its sass and sizzle. But even its syncopation seems somehow reserved, taking care not to come too hard or too heavy. With its fuzztone bass, wahwah love, and chanted vocals, \"Goatman\" is the record's traditionally heaviest track, keying on a guitar solo that sounds as though played with barbed wire. Still, Goat seem to be holding back, tempering sizzle and drive with a proper modicum of listlessness. This might sound tepid to some; to me, at least, it's an invitation for immersion.   Like their fellow Swedes in Dungen, Goat have succeeded in not only borrowing the sounds of yore but reinvigorating them, creating a record that doesn't mimic the past wholesale so much as recontextualize its components. But for all of Dungen's musical bustle and urgency, Goat seems preternaturally at ease with this stuff, soaking insistent beats with lysergic tones and highflying hooks. If their creation myth is dubious (and it seems to be), its ethos this music is an extension of traditions, so there's no need to rush it or demand that it make them famous might not be. The short and infinitely catchy \"Run to Your Mama\" could be a single, but it isn't polished or produced enough to be meant that way. \"Goatlord\" coasts over a tide of pump organ and casually strummed acoustic guitar, existing in a Velvets haze until an electric guitar solo nasty and snarling, like Comets on Fire falling back to earth finally intersects it. When the drift returns, the electric guitar sticks with it, following it toward the exit. It's a fitting illustration of the band's philosophical insistence that all of this is world music ancient and modern, accessible and mutable.  I wonder if, in a matter of months, the world were to learn that the story of Goat was one of complete hokum, would it matter? That is, if their tales of Korpilombolo and voodoo and ancestors passing down a tradition of inclusive and nowelectrified ritual music were false, does it matter? Probably: Despite the detail droves that the internet and itinerant social media allow, a sense of mystery still begets a sense of wonder. Perhaps you and your friends could begin your own Goat, live a myth of your own making?  But at least at this moment, Goat afford listeners the opportunity to press pause on selfobsessed information cycles, to push past the noise of minutiae, check into their wonderfully vague story, and check out with a wonderful record. Indeed, if certain components of Goat's lore prove to be just that, they have, with World Music, created a vivid manifestation of the ideals they've espoused. \"We've been taught since we were small to have an understanding of not only western bands, but of music from other parts of the world,\" Johansson told The Quietus, a sentiment echoed when the band told another interviewer that its influences include birdsongs and food. \"The title World Music was chosen because we believe we play 'world music,' and that's what we think everyone plays.\" For all its psychedelic tendencies and marketing trappings, Goat's World Music feels as assured and unfussy as folk music. "}