{"label":" PIAS / Different","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18536/homepage_large.1eed85e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Tiga","title":"Tiga Non Stop","text":" Tiga, better known for his tastemaking and mixing skills than his productions, has one really important skill: He makes niche scenes feel populist. He did this most memorably in 2003, when his DJKicks mix made the booming electroclash scene play like a big party instead of a bunch of pissy punk rockers with sequencers. Since then he's released a trunkfull of singles and remixes, along with two artist albums notable mostly for their goofy insouciance. Less visibly, he's stewarded the shockingly productive Turbo Recordings, a label that, if it hasn't quite predicted every major trend in dance music during the last halfdecade, has at least been on the cusp, from Chromeo's 80s revivalism to Azari & III's pilfering of Chicago house to the label's more recent focus on the gritty end of tech house. His record as a taste barometer is flawless. Befitting his label's recent direction, Tiga's Non Stop mix for Pias/Different Recordings focuses on pugnosed, gritty dance. Tiga weaves them into a broader pop context that includes nonchalant indieelectro (Kindness' magnificent Mats' cover, \"Swingin' Party\") and contemporary poprap his Tygarefactoring \"Track City Bitch\" is clever and annoying. These are sore thumbs, obvious ones from an artist who has snatched in for reworking \"Sunglasses at Night\" and \"Hot in Here\", but they're hardly all that's on offer. Non Stop shines when it marries the rambunctiousness of recent Turbo mainstays such as Clouds and Duke Dumont with everything from abstract indie (Actress' Panda Bear remix) to noisepunk tirades (Factory Floor) and analogue purism (the hotly tipped Blawan and Locked Groove). It's those Turbo artists that Non Stop really cradles, all this infrastructure that makes Duke Dumont's \"Street Walker\" the type of track casual fans could pick out of a lineup; that makes Clouds' stomping \"Those Cracks in Your Face, Do They Hurt?\" sound playful. He's not offering these tracks in context: he's removing them from it, from an allhouse, alltechno world in which they might seem gray, or rote, or merely good. There is a level of whimsy here not available in a standard Fabric or DJKicks offering. That whimsy can serve as a gateway, and that's really valuable. Non Stop is an alloy so primly tailored to every conceivable dance music trend that it's worth wondering if Tiga has a cool nephew or a bug planted in a Hardwax buyer's laptop. The real explanation that Tiga is an exceptionally tunedin connoiseur is less exciting, but it doesn't subtract from the casual mixology of Non Stop. Tiga's Turbo label has expertly shifted its focus over the years, but his mixing remains an allTiga affair, expertly unfocused, still hanging streamers and balloons in unlikely places. "}