{"label":" XL / Hot Charity","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18529/homepage_large.57cd6fd0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jordan Sargent","artist":"Ratking","title":"Wiki93 EP","text":" The ability to rap really quickly is a privileged skill in hiphop, and mostly with good reason. Too often, though, rap fans get stuck in the pursuit of being dazzled, of being reminded why rappers can rap and we (often) can't. Ratking, a fourpiece rap group from New York, is led by the 18yearold Wiki, whose \"Wikispeaks\" single from earlier this year made minor waves across the web. Wiki, as he's likely been told countless times, sounds remarkably like a young Eminem when he raps, and his taut, elastic flow means he can actually do a pretty good homage. It's that flow that is his (and the band's) calling card, but the flair is mostly a distraction laid over the top of their Wiki93 EP, which reveals a group of kids still searching for something to say. The idea of having \"something to say,\" is itself a distorted one in hiphop \"something\" doesn't always have to be lifealtering truths. But having an identifiable pointofview is almost always crucial to becoming a worthwhile rapper and to catching on with an audience. Ratking are nipping at the heels of a loose constellation of rap groups Odd Future, Death Grips, Joey Bada$$' Pro Era that have caught on in the last year or two by presenting new perspectives. Ratking come from a hardcore background (Wiki played Germs covers in high school) and are aesthetically guided by early90s New York rap, but they have yet to progress beyond the facade of teen male angst.  Even Odd Future, fellow skaterappers who may be their most obvious peer in this regard, had quietly constructed a deeply nihilistic world unto itself. Wiki93 is for teenage punks, too, but there's nothing at the core of the EP that illuminates the inspirations of Wiki and fellow MC Hak. Tyler, the Creator and Earl Sweatshirt, for instance, bonded over their missing fathers, and that pain was unavoidable in their music. In Joey Bada$$ you can see an old soul, one who has absorbed old beats and rhyme schemes and comes at his music from a place of love. With Ratking, you catch snatches of images kids scrawling graffiti, jumping subway turnstiles, running from cops but there is nothing deeper. Wiki raps about things that kids do, but what's the significance?  There is still some potential here, though. Ratking, four kids that call themselves \"mutts\"  and are into punk, early90s rap and Cam'ron equally, seem like a zeitgeist rap group in some sense, and in that they have an untapped power waiting to be harnessed. There is also an obvious level of talent: Wiki's ability to rap well from a technical perspective almost works against him, but it's still a dazzling skill that could one day be put to good use. There are also the beats on the album, cooked up by producers Sporting Life and Ramon. They are built from the ground up with hard boombap drums, but they attack with an aggressiveness and noise that sprouts from the group's roots in hardcore and punk. There is no dissonance, though, no skronk; they are beats made to be rapped over, but without a nod to the livedin warmth and old crackle of typical 90srevival productions. \"To every mother with a stroller, eyeing me when I roll up/ Know your kid's gonna be just like me when he grows up,\" Wiki raps on \"Pretty Picture\" and in many cases it's probably be true. But Ratking are a group that are a very long way away from turning that into a rallying cry, from not just embodying disaffected teen rebels but speaking for them. Being able to really connect with that fanbase the one that turned the Beastie Boys, Eminem and Odd Future into heroes doesn't come easily, and it can't be papered over with a nice flow. "}