{"label":" Caldo Verde","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18542/homepage_large.564f4d97.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Mark Kozelek","title":"Mark Kozelek on Tour: The Soundtrack","text":" Through his  Caldo Verde label, Mark Kozelek has been releasing a steady trickle of material for a decade now. His output includes not only studio albums under his own name and the still active Sun Kil Moon moniker, but also various collections of live tracks, alternate takes, rarities, and covers. Most find their way to listeners via bonus discs or freewithpurchase offerings, and by now seemingly every song he has ever written is well documented at each stage of its life: rough demo, studio recording, and live performance. And yet, despite releasing only a handful of proper albums, Kozelek's archives are apparently inexhaustible. It appears to be a sound business model, one that plays to the demands of his small but cultish fanbase that will happily parse the differences between various versions of deepalbum cuts. This 2xCD soundtrack to Kozelek's documentary, On Tour, serves as a kind of label sampler, a retrospective of Caldo Verde's ancillary releases. Several of these 33 songs are culled from previous collections, including 2010's Admiral Fell Promises, 2009's Lost Verses Live, and 2006's Little Drummer Boy Live. Additionally, everything here save a few noodly sketches like \"Seville Piece\" and \"Backstage Unitarian Piece\" has been available in some form or another before now. That includes the four bonus tracks and even \"Koko\", a typically atmospheric instrumental by Caldo Verde signees Desertshore. As though that wasn't enough, early orders will include a bonus disc, Live in Copenhagen. This busy release schedule arguably serves a function beyond simply generating product and profit: It allows Kozelek to insist that a song changes essentially from one night to the next and that such external factors as location, venue, and audience define a song as fundamentally as lyrics and melody. In that regard, there is new material on On Tour, even if the tracklist overlaps with every other Kozelek release. And yet, the set comes across as quietly and curiously anticlimactic, if only because he has hit this retrospective vein so many times in the past. However, we've never actually heard Kozelek do a soundtrack before. This might present some artists an opportunity to either reconsider what they do or rethink the whole concept of what a soundtrack can do, but On Tour comes across as haphazard and, worse, conceptually staid. There is something intrinsically cinematic about Kozelek's music, especially the material on Admiral Fell Promises, which was defined by the fine filigrees of guitar, the low thrum of the nylon strings, the subtle grain in his voice, and the delicate evocations of his lyrics. Some of the older material, such as \"Void (Live in Sweden)\" and \"Like the River (Live in Spain)\", are enlivened by his flamencostyle guitar playing, while others, such as \"Lucky Man (Hotel Performance)\" take on a new intimacy thanks to the relatively lofi quality of the recordings. It's clear Kozelek is an able, agile picker and a gracefully understated interpreter, but that's not necessarily a revelation. The music is not the problem here; the problem is the way the music's been repackaged. And that includes the timing of this release. The film debuted last fall, long before Sun Kil Moon's most recent album Among the Leaves surfaced, a collection that actually proves a much more bracing enumeration of the gains and losses of a life spent on the road, in the studio, and at the label. It's as though Kozelek threw caution to the wind and started writing about what lay immediately in front of him: overeager fanboys, VD, broken relationships, a bad back. The frankness and forthrightness with which he addressed such matters allowed for a sneaky humor rarely heard on his albums, and the considerable length of Among the Leaves 17 tracks at about 70 minutes­­, plus a bonus disc, of course seemed to be its grimmest joke: After more than two decades in the music business, Kozelek has become the old man rambling on and on and on, to the point where fewer and fewer people are listening. Among the Leaves, while far from perfect, still represents a new chapter for Kozelek, one that finds him trying out new approaches and new attitudes that throw his entire catalog into sharp relief while revealing new facets of his veteran persona. He has two February releases a live album and a covers collection that ought to expound on Leaves. In the meantime, how can On Tour be anything but an enormous step backwards? "}