{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18537/homepage_large.7a274717.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Hockley-Smith","artist":"Steve Hauschildt","title":"Sequitur","text":" Blacklight posters. Telescopes. Stacks of VHS tapes. A grainy video of a comet traveling across the pitch black expanse of space. If Emeralds, the Clevelandborn synth and guitar three piece, are known for anything, it's their ability to take empty nostalgia and flip it into deep introspection. It's a skill that speaks to their musical prowess as much as it does their sincere love of things that many people would initially write off as ironic. As solo artists, each member has taken their love of ephemera and abstract ideas in different directions. John Elliott went cosmic, making music that sounds like it was conceived on a space shuttle, while Mark McGuire's burrowed further into his guitar, creating gorgeous ripples of dusky sunlighttinged music that sounds like the work of a band instead of one guy. Steve Hauschildt, on the other hand, is steadily molding soft drone, spaready new age, and breathy keys into something that isn't quite dance music, but isn't fully ambient either. On Sequitur, his second album for Kranky in two years, he manages to make the jump into intellectual electronics without losing the playfulness that made him appealing in the first place. The most immediately noticeable aspect of the record is that Hauschildt is now singing. Sort of. His vocals are masked by a vocoder, rendered borderline indecipherable. This isn't an accident. In the press release for the record, Hauschildt explains that he wants to make an album that uses technology as a way of expressing androgyny. By mixing male and female tones, he's arrived at a vocal sound that isn't exactly either. It's a heavy concept to broach, especially when he could just as easily carry on without explaining it at all, but Sequitur is an album for thinking to above anything else. Across eight tracks, he combines layers of glittering synth with smooth washes of mechanical hum. There are moments when this stuff fades too far into the background, like in the pretty but overly repetitive \"Vegas Mode\", which is technically accomplished but lacks heft. \"Kept\", the most explicitly ambient piece on the record, demands attention due to its gummy web of textured keys that pulse with vitality. If \"Vegas Mode\" is Hauschildt straddling multiple genres and not really pulling it off, then \"Kept\" shows that maybe he would be better served tackling one thing at a time. Which is not to say that Sequitur is a bad album. More than anything, it's a hint at what Hauschildt's capable of. Today, you could walk into just about any remaining record store and pick up a wide array of deluxe reissues of long haired dudes from previous decades messing with synthesizers they wanted nothing more than to understand. It's great that they exist. Those records are often mind bogglingly ahead of their time, and are a clear influence on a new crop of electronic music obsessives, but they often feel like curiosities as if the end result was just experimenting with the equipment rather than using it to make fully formed pieces. With the academic concept behind Sequitur, Hauschildt initially seems like he's part of that school, but when the album reaches closer \"Steep Decline\", everything's overwhelmingly human. On that track, cavernous drums boom across a tangle of triumphant keys, and it sounds like Hauschildt's attempting to drag emotion from a sterile soundscape. He'll certainly make better records, yes, but right now Sequitur feels like a step forward for a genre that could happily stay the same forever. "}