{"label":" Editions Mego","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18539/homepage_large.8d4cc8a8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Kevin Drumm","title":"Relief","text":" As night fell on the 20th century, Chicago improviser Kevin Drumm began to gather up all its darkest strands in one corroded braid. His starting point was an electric guitar, laid clinically on a slab, and dissected in neat, quiet strokes. Over the next 15 years and counting, he grew louder, bolder, and more ambitious, drawing in aspects of black metal, harsh noise, drone, concrete music, and free electronics. His music rose to a peak of vigor without sacrificing its subtlety no matter how unruly it got, the greater forces of Drumm's instincts stayed in control. His discography deepened at a dizzying pace, and certain solo works emerged as big statements amid the collaborations and incidental excursions.  One such statement was the screaming wall of mouths of Sheer Hellish Miasma, a refreshingly onthenose title in a field that often preferred to wreath its mischief in loftier concepts. Drumm offered other worthwhile releases in the ensuing decade, but Relief might be his next milestone. If pure volatility is the most exciting thing about noise, it's also the biggest hurdle for people who reasonably expect music to be made of continuous patterns. Returning to Editions Mego with this single 36minute track, Drumm unites the best of both worlds. As on Miasma, he wrestles a great deal of hectic squirming into an impregnable monument that crumbles and crumbles without getting smaller. Gradations of mood, color, and weight fluctutate chaotically, but a tense arch of cyclic melody lends form. The substance of the music is a dense but porous array of throaty roars, eerie baying, hissing static, rogue frequencies, tactile shudders, and other instabilities, oozing over and through each other. Ubiquitous highfrequency interference rises and falls, governing the intensity of the piece at any given moment. But even during its most violent passages, Relief is more entrancing than overwhelming, at least after you sink through its abrasive exterior and get used to its lulling depths. The energy coursing through the convulsive medium is slow, periodic, wavelike; smoothing the spatter into a blur. Sonority exerts a powerful presence, shining off the textures in prismatic overtones and turning inside them like a warped screw. It can be hard to describe what distinguishes a really good noise record from an average one, but Drumm makes it easy for us. The question that all improvisers have to answer is whether something you play once can be worth listening to more than once. Experience and forethought ease the answer toward yes, and Drumm has both at his command. Throughout Relief, we hear a mind making choices in the moment, rather than just letting sound make its own. Stray frequencies or timbres sometimes spring free, taking on the character of cries for help, only to be swiftly tamped back down into the swirling mass. A noise record called Relief courts easy jokes about what happens when you turn it off, but it's funny when the storm clears and silence descends again, heavier than before, the strongest lingering impression isn't of random violence, but of the hauntingly measured motif drifting at the bottom of it all. "}