{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18553/homepage_large.b79481ae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Mogwai","title":"A Wrenched and Virile Lore","text":" Mogwai made their name on a simple formula: be very quiet, and then, without warning, be sadistically loud. But very early on, the group showed they weren't especially precious about their practice. Their 1997 fulllength debut, Young Team, was quickly followed by Kicking a Dead Pig, wherein Young Team's tracks were subjected to sonic surgery by a cast of noted studio scientists that included Kevin Shields, Alec Empire, and µZiq. At the time, it hardly seemed odd that the most undanceable band in all of Scotland would welcome the opportunity for a beatbased rethink. After all, in the wake of the late90s electronica boom, remix albums had effectively replaced live albums as the default cashcowmilking measure for rock bands (as acknowledged by the collection's pisstake of a title), and the ample negative space in the band's music presents producers with a large canvass to color in. But despite its impressive cast and elaborate doubleCD presentation, Dead Pig ultimately sounded like random attempts at applying Mogwai's metallic noise to the darker strains of electronic music of the era (drill and bass, digital hardcore), to the point of using its entire second disc to determine who could produce the most gonzo version of the band’s epic signature track \"Mogwai Fear Satan\". (Shields' titanic take won in a landslide.) Fourteen years later, the band's second remix album, A Wrenched Virile Lore, arrives as a more cohesive work, presenting a cerebral, alternateuniverse reimgination of Mogwai's 2011 release, Hardcore Will Never Die But You Will. Despite its severe title, Hardcore counts as the band’s most blissful and texturally rich to date. Hardcore's sound provides producers with more jumpingoff points than the band's mountainous artrock would normally allow. If Kicking a Dead Pig was mostly about giving Mogwai's atomic guitar eruptions a mechanized makeover, A Wrenched Virile Lore repositions the songs' central melodies in more splendorous surroundings. In the hands of Justin K. Broadrick, the postpunky krautrock of \"George Square Thatcher Death Party\" becomes the sort of gently ascendant, anthemic opener that you could imagine blaring out of a stadium to kickoff an Olympics ceremony; Pittsburgh progrockers Zombi hear the mournful piano refrain of \"Letters to the Metro\" as the basis for a glorious, strobelit Trans Europe Express flashback. Or in some cases, the material is stripped down to its essence: Glaswegian troubador R.M. Hubbert reroutes the motorik pulse of \"Mexican Grand Prix\" off the speedway into the backwoods and transforms it into a hushed, Jose Gonzalezlike acoustic hymn, while San Fran neogoth upstarts the Soft Moon scuff away the surface sheen of \"San Pedro\" to expose the seething menace lurking underneath. However, there are limits to this approach: Umberto's distended, ambient distillation of \"Too Raging to Cheers\" simmers down this already serene track to the point of rendering it inconsequential. Like Hardcore, A Wrenched Virile Lore features 10 tracks, though it only references eight of the originals. However, even the mixes that draw from the same songs are different enough in approach and sequenced in such a way that the reappearances feel like purposeful reprises: Klad Hest's drum and bassrattled redux of \"Rano Pano\" finds its sobering aftershock in Tim Hecker's haunted and damaged revision, while Cylob's cloying synthpop take on Hardcore's opener \"White Noise\" which fills in the original's instrumental melody with lyrics sung through a vocoder is redeemed by UK composer Robert Hampson's 13minute softfocus dissolve of the same track. Renamed \"La Mort Blanche\", its appearance provides both a fullcircle completion of this record (by bookending it with mixes by former Godflesh members) while serving as a reentry point back into Hardcore by reintroducing the source song's main motifs and widescreen vantage. But more than just inspire a renewed appreciation for Hardcore, A Wrenched Virile Lore potentially provides Mogwai with new avenues to explore now that they're well into their second decade, and perhaps instill a greater confidence in the idea that their identity can remain intact even in the absence of their usual skullcrushing squall. "}