{"label":" Terrible","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18552/homepage_large.cd511d55.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Carrie Battan","artist":"Solange","title":"True","text":" When we heard from Solange Knowles four years ago, she was a majorlabel signee trying to find her footing on a conceptual and vintagesounding album called SoLAngel and the Hadley Street Dreams. Then she split with Interscope and resurfaced on the indie circuit, carting JayZ and her sister Beyoncé to Grizzly Bear concerts on the Williamsburg waterfront and offering up a cover of Dirty Projectors' \"Stillness Is the Move\". At cynical first glance, it seemed like Knowles was simply backtracking and rebranding, hoping to claim some available indie turf. But this fall, she released \"Losing You\", a gleaming and spirited new song that transcended the labels she'd been assigned. Released via Terrible, the label coowned by Chris Taylor of Grizzly Bear, the sly single hinted at the possibilities open to an artist who eschews a traditional model of pop stardom. True, the EP that follows, delivers on the fresh promise of \"Losing You\" and marks the sound of a singer hitting a graceful stride, in her own time and on her own terms. Producers and songwriters in the pop world sometimes lurk in the background, leaving the vocalist to be the face of the project. But Solange upends that model by presenting Devonté Hynes, her cosongwriter and True’s main producer, as a fullfledged partner. His name is credited prominently and he appears handinhand with Solange at listening parties and in press photos. And True, a thematically consistent whole, sounds like the product of a lovingly forged artistic bond. The EP shares DNA with Hynes' solo outlet Blood Orange. Like the best bits of his 2011 album Coastal Grooves, it feeds on humble but compulsively listenable tunes that reference the silken grooves of late80s pop. But Hynes thrives in a supporting role. \"If there's a better voice [than mine] suited to a song I usually have a female voice in my head, anyway then I would rather her sing it,\" he told me during an interview earlier this year. \"It makes me happier.\" Hynes has met an ideal female vocal muse in Solange, who executes each cut with simple grace and yearning naïveté. These songs often reconcile girlish optimism with worldly wisdom as though the two are one and the same. \"Maybe I lost you, but I was not done having my fun/ Played around with your heart, now I'm playing around in the dark,\" she apologizes on \"Lovers in the Parking Lot\". And on “Bad Girls”, she captures the uneasiness of waking up in last night's smeared makeup and feeling unmoored: \"I look down on you, so deep down I know that we're the same/ It's stupid thinking that you would want to come play my game,\" she sings, ending the EP over a twinkle worthy of a closing scene in an early John Hughes film.Like much of True, it's the sound of a complicated slow dance during a night's dwindling last minutes, fueled by pounding hearts and racing minds. The record never builds to a huge chorus; instead, its hooks bubble up quietly and quickly, then dissipate as the songs return to their downbeat simmer. Hynes tinkers with nontraditional structures, letting the tunes meander in and out of grooves, but while this occasionally causes True to fall slack (\"Look Good With Trouble\"), it’s a largely effective approach. True also benefits from its unorthodox length: At seven songs, it's fuller than most EPs, yet too short to be considered an albumalbum. Somehow, it works. Why add filler just to call it an album? It's another example of Knowles and Hynes forgoing conventional wisdom and doing things their own way. Seven songs can be the perfect length; a collection of accessible and authentic pop can come out on an indie label; you can reshape the typical producer/songwriter/pop star model; you can create unassuming music that still sounds like a big deal. And ultimately, for Solange, you can retrace your steps and find yourself somewhere entirely new. "}