{"label":" Rock Action","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18564/homepage_large.d52aca79.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Neyland","artist":"Umberto","title":"Night Has a Thousand Screams","text":" Pieces is a slasher horror feature from 1982 that revolves around a serial killer who tries to construct a jigsaw puzzle from human body parts. The idea of bastardizing existing forms appears to hold great appeal for Kansas City musician Matt Hill, who records schlocky instrumental fare indebted to a broad range of Zgrade giallo peddlers under the Umberto name. His prior work, of which the deathly Not Not Fun LP Prophecy of the Black Widow was a highlight, provided, in Hill's own words, \"soundtracks to films that don't exist\". There still isn't a bona fide soundtrack that bears the Umberto name, but he took one step closer to realizing that dream by performing the music on Night Has a Thousand Screams to a screening of Pieces at the Glasgow Music and Film Festival earlier this year. Mogwai's Stuart Braithwaite was in attendance at the screening, and subsequently offered to release the music on his Rock Action imprint. The results are a fractional advance on what came before, with the blood running a little thicker and brighter than prior Umberto releases. To draw on an analogy from the film work to which Hill is so clearly enthralled, Night of a Thousand Screams is like picking up a copy of Buddy Giovinazzo's masterfully frayed Combat Shock after gorging on the base slice and dice chills of the Friday the 13th  series. Prophecy's opening cut, \"Temple Room\", was a piece of Claudio Simonetti worship that was both a little too in awe of its source and lacking in the necessary tools to make it ooze under your skin. In short, it felt like a tinny replica cowering in the wake of a far bolder creation. Goblin's work was purposefully big, with every power chord designed to hammer into your chest. It's no wonder Justice found so much much fertile territory to mine from the band's output on Audio, Video, Disco. Hill has wisely chosen not to match Simonetti at his game here, instead edging toward the low rent chills of Italian soundtrack master Fabio Frizzi, in particular his superior City of the Living Dead score.  The influence of Frizzi is primarily manifested in the choral work, presumably lifted from Hill's sample library. It's a great sweep of male humming that resurfaces at pertinent points in the record, reaching a maximal crescendo during the appropriately named final track, \"End Credits\". Night Has a Thousand Screams is structured around subtly repeating motifs like that, subtly bringing back small keyboard parts to mirror the way a horror film will often return to its central theme song. At its worst it borders on a barely palatable mesh of kitsch and homage, such as the cheap Ghost Box knockoff \"Paralyzed\". It's when Hill reaches into purposefully more restrained areas that the album picks up its eerie glow. \"The Puzzle\" is a brief, beatless passage full of cold vapors; \"The Pool\" is even better, combining thudding keys with further choral enhancements that briefly make it sound like a lost Lamberto Bava score composed by Popol Vuh. Similar moments of inspiration arise sporadically on Night Has a Thousand Screams, but the overall feel is often tugged down by Hill's tendency to lapse into genre exercises. He creates his own world through work like \"The Waterbed\", which succeeds by melding sparse, hissy textures with a sudden jolt into a stiffly mechanized final third full of siren wails. In a market flooded with electronic acts reaching toward horror soundtrack work to fulfill their \"dark\" remit, it often feels like supply is far outweighing demand, making it hard to stand out from the pack. Hill's work is steadily gaining its own hue, and this album is a step toward a recognizable Umberto sound that won't instantly be tagged with all the influences he so adores. It's interesting that he's had a minor breakthrough by having some visual stimulus to compose around. A fullyfledged soundtrack assignment might push him even harder to create his own recognizable strain of musical terror. "}