{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18563/homepage_large.88e85784.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Miles Raymer","artist":"Massive Attack","title":"Blue Lines: Remastered Box Set","text":" Listening to Massive Attack's debut album, Blue Lines, 21 years after its initial release is like reading an old William Gibson novel that describes the thennear future, which is now the present, with unsettling precision. Nearly every song offers a sound currently in use in music's tastemaking leading edge. Robert \"3D\" Del Naja's choppedup vocals on the albumopening \"Safe From Harm\" sound freakishly like the chorus to Kanye et al's \"Mercy\" (even if Ye actually lifted it from DJ Screw, who was developing his idiosyncratic style 5,000 miles away from Bristol, England at almost the exact same time Massive were recording Blue Lines). The chunky, palmmuted guitar riff on \"One Love\" is almost identical to the one on \"Ahh Shit\" from Jeremih's brilliant Late Nights with Jeremih. The subzero spacereggae beat to \"Five Man Army\" could easily be a highlight of any number of fashionable rappers' mixtapes.  When Del Najas, Grant \"Daddy G\" Marshall, and Andrew \"Mushroom\" Vowles were recording Blue Lines, the subgenre called triphop hadn't been invented. But at its heart, Blue Lines is a hiphop record, although one marbled with streaks of soul, dub, dance music, and psychedelic rock. The fact that its primary audience in America was made up largely of ravers and alternative rockers doesn't change that. And their accomplishments stand out even further next to what was happening elsewhere in the hiphop world at the time. Straight Outta Compton, It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back, Paul's Boutique, and 3 Feet High and Rising were all still just a few of years old in 1991, and so was the idea of beatmaking as an art unto itself. The blocky rhythms and minimal arrangements that defined rap's identity in the 1980s were just starting to be replaced by the deep, organic textures that would define its 90s, and Blue Lines was at the forefront.  When Massive Attack first arrived, hiphop in the UK was still figuring itself out. For years the scene there, such as it was, focused mainly on reproducing trends that had already fallen out of fashion by the time they made it across the Atlantic. That lack of identity was probably an asset for Massive Attack. They didn't have to compete against their contemporaries to see who could sample which Jimmy Castor Bunch break first, or worry about conforming to any outsider whose preconceptions about hiphop authenticity might not include progrock samples or a lush chillout anthem like \"Unfinished Sympathy\". Another asset was Neneh Cherry, whose Raw Like Sushi, which Del Naja and Vowles worked on, provided a genrebending inspiration for Blue Lines, as well as a bankroll to record it. (Cherry even paid the group a salary and let them turn her kid's bedroom into an impromptu studio.) In fact, those Raw Like Sushi credits (Vowles' for programming, Del Naja's for cowriting \"Manchild\") were the only real musicindustry bona fides any of the principal contributors to Blue Lines had going into it, aside from vocalists Shara Nelson and roots reggae veteran Horace Andy. But somehow the group realized a remarkable and seamless sonic identity. That's clear from the arresting opener \"Safe From Harm\", which spins an aggressive drumbeat, Del Naja's rap, Nelson's soulful vocals, and a mist of sustained minorkey synths around an intimidatingly muscular bass loop. From that moment, every major part of the Massive Attack profile is already present, from the collaging of genres to the spacious, nocturnal sonic environment to the heavy dose of paranoia that permeates it all. They spend the rest of the album exploring variations on these themes. \"One Love,\" with Andy on vocals, has a digital dancehall feel, a creepyfunky electric piano riff, and a scratched sample of a blaring horn section that predates Pharoahe Monch's \"Simon Says\" by almost a decade. \"Daydreaming\", with its scratchy breakbeat drums, is more directly hiphop than most of the rest of the album, but the layers of atmospheric synthesizers and Tricky's felonious nearwhisper make it clear that Massive Attack was up to something entirely different from what every other rap producer at the time was doing. Blue Lines brought producers around to its unique vision. By the time Massive released Protection three years later, the group's renegade approach had been copied enough times to become a fullon movement. They'd go on to produce their masterpiece, Mezzanine, a couple of years after, but by then the project had already started to splinter. Tricky split from the collective after Protection to follow his own solo vision, while the core trio behind it would eventually burn out acrimoniously, with Vowles and then Marshall leaving Del Naja to produce increasingly less rewarding music under the group's name. Meanwhile, triphop in general had its edges polished off by genteel musicians who transformed it into soundtracks for fashionable hotel lobbies. Still, that doesn't change the fact that Blue Lines was a startling record when it came out, and it remains one now. For this reissue it received a new mix and a new mastering job straight from the original tapes. It's available as a CD, in digital form in standard and high fidelity formats, and as a set of two LPs and a DVD of high resolution audio files. There aren't any bonus tracks, and aside from a reproduction promo poster in the vinyl edition there aren't any addons either. Frankly they'd just be a distraction from the underlying theme that becomes clear once you get absorbed into the music, which is that Blue Lines is still Blue Lines, and most of the world is still trying to catch up to it.  "}