{"label":" Output","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1723/homepage_large.9e78d76a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Colder","title":"Again","text":" It's been about two months since I offered to write about Again, the downtempo debut from French electronic artist Marc Nguyen Tan. The album has recently found its way into more than a few blueandorange Other Music bags, which, given its influences, is no real surprise: The album recalls everyone from Can and Joy Division to Tan's fellow countrymen Air and Serge Gainsbourg all names commonly dropped in reference to records with at least a week's worth of faded black jeans cred. Add to this a companion DVD of music videos (Colder is first and foremost a video artist) and the fact that the album is currently available only on import, and Again becomes the embroidered, doublebutton collared shirt of tastemade 2003 releases. Which is maybe part of why I was so hesitant to come to a conclusion on it. At the moment, its sound is at the height of chic, the perfect latenight complement to an evening of jealous lovers and Le Tigre remixes. To this effect, the beatdriven album is neither ambient wallpaper nor sweaty loveromp if anything, it's an enticing aftershower cigarette that, with any interest in the current musical climate, one can't help but smoke. Stylistically, though, the album (especially the first half) complements its uptempo brethren almost too perfectly, and at the expense of substantial songs. Each of Colder's nine tracks is expertly stylized with the rubbery dub and dark groove primacy this year has indulged to a dangerously indiscriminate degree they're equally average, and one would be hardpressed to pinpoint any particular standouts. The suction cup bassline of \"Confusion\" stammers as if through rain puddles, a remarkable texture that teethes Tan's hushed but charmingly mispronounced vocal melody. Album single \"Crazy Love\" initially seems excusably repetitive, but as Tan continues singing, the song becomes unnecessarily tedious. A similar problem plagues the sexy electrodub of \"One Night in Tokyo\", which opens with conviction but soon whimpers out, and the found sound and renegade funk of \"Version\", which curiously recalls musique concrete icon Pierre Henry's psychedelic Messe Pour le Temps Present.Again would have made a much more solid album had it exhausted its ideas in half the runtime. As it stands, there's simply not enough development within any track to justify its length, and the loops are too subdued and unengaging to hold its listeners' attention. The album's second half seems less guilty of this than the first, as tracks like \"Silicone Sexy\" and \"Where\" undergo ample metamorphoses with a surely German, vaguely Kompakt degree of subtlety, as does \"Colder\", the goth album closer in which Tan's words trip over organs and minimal rhythmic affections. That said, for the musical merits often attributed to Again, Colder seems less concerned with creating enduring music than with the current ministries of fashionable sound. "}