{"label":" One Little Indian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18565/homepage_large.b4558f86.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jayson Greene","artist":"Björk","title":"Bastards","text":" Björk has earned a certain amount of deference. She released a string of masterpieces that redefined, on a grand scale, what a \"pop star\" looks and sounds like and how the avantgarde relates to the mainstream, as well as changing our conception of what makes a voice beautiful. Her earlier albums were so good they warped the light around all that has followed; as visible as Björk has become, she's getting harder and harder to see.  Increasingly, her albums reach us as the eye of a storm of extracurricular activities. With all this diversifying, Björk seems on a \"post popstardom public intellectual\" tenure track that brings to mind David Byrne. Starting at around 2007's Volta, her new albums began to feel less like events themselves and more like the musical arm of some broader project. This tendency reached its peak on 2011's Biophilia, an album celebrating the wonders of natural science that was also a series of interactive iPad apps that was also a series of shows at the New York Hall of Science. For me, this was where the signaltonoise ratio in Björk's work finally, definitively tipped. As a series of ideas, Biophilia was glorious  fascinating to think about, aweinspiring in its reach. As an album, it was often turgid, frankly boring, and rarely worth leaving on. The Biophilia remixes you find on Bastards have been commercially available  in other forms for months; they began trickling out shortly after the album was released in a series of 12inches, released periodically. Bastards represents a capstone on the Biophilia project, but it is also the end of a dizzying breadcrumbtrail of packaging and repackaging. Pity the hardcore Björk fan; like the lifelong Trent Reznor or Radiohead fan, they are faced with an idol whose musical creativity  is only matched by their ingenuity in dreaming up new ways to separate their faithful from disposable income. As a standalone product, Bastards feels distressingly unnecessary. But if you didn't want to scoop up these remixes piecemeal and were waiting for a handy package, it is here for you. They occasionally offer new angles from the somewhatblocky Biophilia material; the album's three most dynamic songs, \"Crystalline\", \"Virus\", and \"Mutual Core\", receive the most attention. Hudson Mohawke gives \"Virus\" a gleaming new coat of paint built from of comettrails synths and massive synthesized horns; it generates the same stonerish awe that anyone who has ever gaped at a planetarium ceiling will recognize. Death Grips contribute a pair of remixes, one to \"Sacrifice\" and one to \"Thunderbolt\", both of which send a shot of badcoke energy skittering through the material. \"Sacrifice\"'s margins are filled with mortarround percussion sounds and sampled snufflingcreature noises, while the glacial churchorgan dirge of \"Thunderbolt\", is given a shot of adrenaline through that brings to mind a New Order song hyperventilating. These New Puritans strip all the elements out from underneath Björk's astonishing vocal take and surround her with drizzly bits of bass, piano, and a mournfully chanting vocal ensemble.  Omar Souleyman more or less ditches all the elements that make Björk's songs her own and throws Björk's \"Crystalline\" vocals over a piece of his signature dabke music, transforming it into Syrian New Wave. The best remixes here remind that Björk's voice remains an endlessly malleable instrument, capable of mapping itself onto nearly any context. But apart from Hudson Mohawke's luminous \"Virus\", there are few revelations wrung from this thin material. In 30 tantalizing seconds Matthew Herbert offers us a breathcaught, ecstatic recasting of \"Sacrifice\", in which the song suddenly feels like an outpouring on the order of \"Joga\". But it disappears just as quickly as it hits, and Bastards does little to counteract the sensation that latterday Björk records are more fulfilling to read about than listen to.  "}