{"label":" Prosthetic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18560/homepage_large.101e3835.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Dragged Into Sunlight","title":"Widowmaker","text":" Considered on image alone, Dragged into Sunlight might be the most fascinating new recruit within extreme metal for the better part of the last decade. Like bank robbers on a job or mercenaries on a mission, the British quartet appears uniformly in balaclavas; the holes in the fabric are invitations of intrigue about the minds, lives and pasts of the four anonymous members. And when they play live, the musicians turn their backs on the audience, closing themselves to the house to again invoke wonder about just what they’re doing. Those conditions certainly aren't new for heavy metal, a genre replete with oneman bands, figureobscuring robes, and pioneers who've still never performed in public. Coupled, however, with Dragged into Sunlight's forthright willingness to not only tour but also discuss its intentions and influences and irritations with the world, they do create a strangely magnetic allure, conjuring the idea of a band allegiant to its name a dark figure, reluctantly forced into public view to share its grim view of the world. \"Our inspiration is very much a natural creation, spurred from months, if not years, of frustrated murderous intent,\" the band told Metallomusikum last year. \"Imagine each microsocial interaction stuffed into one massive wrecking ball. Every time someone pissed you off and you wanted to tear their jaw off, concealed, building and ready to burst at any moment.\" Who else would you rather rage with? This public chiaroscuro seems to be one reason that Dragged into Sunlight's second LP, Widowmaker, has been so righteously anticipated: Here is a band, after all, of purported but unnamed extreme metal veterans, willing to take potshots at most anyone in interviews and back it with their own agitated magpie music. Indeed, 2009's Hatred for Mankind offered a potent recombination of death metal, black metal, shocking samples, and relentless production. On the memorably named \"Lashed to the Grinder and Stoned to Death\", for example, Dragged into Sunlight plunged through hideous doom depths only to reemerge with both speed and vigor, a fourpiece thrashing as one against the world. In interviews, Dragged into Sunlight griped about the metal community's evergrowing mold of stylistic conformity; on tape, they seemed capable of more than complaints, a band capable of actually sounding, well, new.  Widowmaker suffers from that sensation. Due to factors like other jobs, other bands, and the 300mile geographical spread between the members, Dragged into Sunlight has been working on Widowmaker a threepart, 40minute suite intended as one piece of music for three years. Both the process and ambition show as seams here, meaning that these 40 minutes sound like a cycle through influences and an unrealized aspiration to unite them under one release. Late last year, talking to Decibel about the justfinished record, the band rolled through a list of Widowmaker touchstones \"It's doom there are influences from Eyehategod, Grief but then there's some thrashier elements, and there's a bit of High on Fire, Trap Them, even Om in there, too.\" Those components are all clearly identifiable here, from Part Three's downtuned downturn to Part Two's sudden circle pit initiation. For the first 15 minutes, Dragged into Sunlight even does its best Godspeed, weaving a somber guitar around whispers of stately violin, downtheabyss traces of noise, and recordings of serial killers talking about the rewards of their work. It's an interesting piece, but when it ends, Dragged into Sunlight flips a switch of convenience by plowing instantly into the howls and wallops of death metal. That's the net effect of Widowmaker, an album that finds Dragged into Sunlight working through strong parts of doom or thrash, noise or drone but never actually welding them into one. Widowmaker is named for, as the band told The Quietus, a heartache that \"builds and builds and your heart is basically exploding.\" But the album itself is more akin to vertigo, with the stylistic disconnects and sudden switches making the record as a whole forgettable at best and vexing at worst. Widowmaker isn't without its rewards: Toward the end of the threepart suite, the band repeatedly cycles through nearsilence (a lugubrious field recording from the Czech Republic's Bone Church circles like a sinister breeze) and the record's most furious bursts. Despite Dragged into Sunlight's insistence on being identified as one unit, these moments offer some of the album’s most motivated and moving performances. A skittering drum solo, for instance, lifts the whole band through a drone and into a phosphorescent surge; during another relatively calm pass, the guitar’s tone and patience are enviable, the slowly rising riff setting a paradoxically grim but inviting scene. And in Part Two, they dart around a serial killer's ramblings, spotlighting the unease as he talks about himself as a mass murderer. These bursts renew Hatred for Mankind's promise of fresh invective.  But by and large, Widowmaker hoists Dragged into Sunlight with their own petard, turning that oncewelcome eclecticism and adventurousness into the weapon that disrupts the payoff. It's not that these 40 minutes are too extreme or overly dependent on too many ideas; it's that Dragged into Sunlight haven't found out how to synthesize their best impulses and broad ambitions into a whole. The parts generally work, but they rarely work together. And from a band that insists upon the collective identity mattering much more than the constituent parts, that's an outcome equivalent to, as they might put it, \"frustrated murderous intent.\" "}