{"label":" Hessle","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18573/homepage_large.988869ac.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Pangaea","title":"Release","text":" Plenty of words have been used to describe the scenedefining UK dance music of Leedsbased Hessle Audio label. \"Funny\" has not been one of them. Yet there it is, in the opening minutes of label cofounder Pangaea's Release: Missy Elliott, imploring via sample, \"Do your thang/ Just make sure you ahead of the game.\" Again and again, until Timbaland urges the same. The line comes from Missy and Tim's 2002 ode to big dicks/elephants, \"Work It\", and it's funny because a UK dance artist sampling Missy Elliott and Timabland or really any earlyaughts US hiphop could not be construed as being \"ahead of the game.\" For a while, it seemed like that was the game. Kevin McAuley, aka Pangaea, who runs Hessle with Pearson Sound and Ben UFO, knows this. In a recent interview with the Quietus, he admits that, while he subscribes to the \"do your thang\" philosophy, the \"ahead of the game\"mantra is a red herring, a sly dig at a scene that spends too much time chasing innovation. Sampling Missy, in a perverted way, takes McAuley out of the running. It is the only thing that takes him out of the running. Pangaea's debut album, by all measures except McAuley's own, is a wily and undefinable example of progressive underground dance music. His best work imagines a world in which UK garage mates with the scrapedknee utility of 1990s techno instead of sinking into the citylow hues of dubstep. It's a beguiling mix, one that marries the syncopated rhythmic template and radiobait of garage with chilly, alien textures. More than any Hessle production before it, Release is singular, almost standoffish. There are no DJ tools here, very little grist for the Rinse FM mill. This is McAuley stepping outside his comfort zone because he and indeed the entire Hessle crew has built a reputation on providing not only forwardthinking dance music, but forwardthinking dance music that plays nicely with its UK club peers. Release stays sour and pugnacious throughout its eight tracks. There are nods to classic UK dubstep the yawning pulses that dominate the second half of the title track, the stoned tempo of \"Middleman\" but its McAuley's devotion to briney tectures and anticlimaxes that define Release. This is technoasworldview, a struggle with machines, not dystopian but properly pessimistic. McAuley fancies cutup vocals like many of his peers, but he doesn't shade them into darkness like, say, Burial; he forces them through a meat grinder, and they come out the other side pink and compressed. Nowhere more so than on the final track, \"High\", a beatless horrorshow that juxtaposes warm electronic pulses with mangled vocals. This brutal treatment goes on for more than seven minutes the longest track on the album. The sample appears to be from an old club track, shitty and obscure enough that it repeals the populism of the opening gambit. While Pangaea and Hessle's peers have resorted to mealy, housemusic gruel (Hotflush) and thinly veiled populism (Hyperdub), Release offers willful, selfconscious antagonism of the purest variety. It's newness by necessity. (And it's no shock that among all the artists featured in Resident Advisor's Machine Love series, McAuley unapologetically features the most spartan and modern rig.) He has professed a desire to return to trackbased techno, the place where his dexterity and rankle can be best put to use. Release is leaden and brute, and Pangaea has never been the type to carry anchors. Be glad McAuley leaves them lying around for us. "}