{"label":" Vagrant","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18574/homepage_large.a02d21f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"School of Seven Bells","title":"Put Your Sad Down EP","text":" School of Seven Bells' 2012 LP Ghostory was loosely structured around the character Lafaye, who finds herself consistently confronted by ghosts, but not of the \"boo!\" variety. For singer/lyricist Alejandra Deheza, ghosts represent the very real emotions that arise from deeply personal past events particularly those that aren't blessed with a sense of closure and which manifest themselves bodily as stress, or a general sense of unease. Not anything near the leap forward that 2010's Disconnect from Desire, was from 2008's Alpinisms, Ghostory was more Deheza and Ben Curtis doubling down on the group's foundational conceit: a meditative confrontation with the shackles of guilt what Depeche Mode called \"a halo in reverse.\" From its title alone, it's tempting to view the 5 track tour EP Put Your Sad Down as a tooliteral evocation of Ghostory's conceit like the highlyregarded therapist going all in and aiming for the top of the selfhelp bestseller chart. Indeed, Sad's title track is the most outlandish thing they've ever done: a nearly 13minute excursion into Miami Vicestyle synth thumps and the monasterial echo of Violator, that takes an offramp into a lengthy drone section halfway through before reprising the central theme. \"All I wanna do/ Is make you forget/ Forget that you feel so bad,\" Deheza chants, echoing the mystical empathy that suffuses all of SVIIB's music, but with a fervor more in line with the euphoria of discostyle escapism. When she suggests \"tonight, just feel with your body,\" however, it's less a suggestion to give in to unfettered eros than to heed a personal fulfillment mantra. In essence, it's the perfect lead track for a tour EP, a release genre that typically collects castaways and oneoffs as a reward to fans who come out to live dates. There are some orphans on Sad, though tracks like \"Secret Days\" and \"Faded Heart\" merge Deheza's trademark yearning with production that respectively recall the earthy circa 2008 Brooklyn syncopations of Alpinisms and a more outré version of Disconnect's take on 90s club music. A dreampop update of Silver Apples' hypnotic protoelectro track \"Lovefingers\" would certainly stick out on the band's carefully drawn LPs, but in an interstitial context, the song affectionately traces a direct line back to one of the preeminent pioneers of SVIIB's own sound. Particularly with the departure of Deheza's twin Claudia from the group before the release of Ghostory, SVIIB has gone through some significant changes over the past year. Perhaps this release is their own way of dispensing with some lingering ghosts before moving on to something new. "}