{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18580/homepage_large.b23132e9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Lindsay Zoladz","artist":"Angel Haze","title":"Classick","text":" On and off the mic, 21 yearold rapper Angel Haze doesn't mince words. \"I can't even name a person I like in hiphop,\" she told a New York Times reporter before her sixsong Classick EP dropped for free online. \"[A]s time has gone on, hiphop has become really redundant and repetitive. There is no point in listening to anything, because it all sounds the same and everyone is saying the same things.\" That's some sensationally broad shade to throw, echoing, oddly enough, the fuckallyouridols quotes that Tyler, the Creator generated in his brashest early interviews two years ago. But Haze's comments also reveal precisely why it's been so thrilling to watch her come into her own over the past year: They show off her fierce independence, her outsized ambition (see the hook of a thenunknown Haze's debut mixtape's best song, \"New York\"), and her simmering spirit of revolt. They're also wellearned. Reservation, the solid, 14song mixtape released this July, introduced Haze as a promising new voice in hiphop, one whose agile, volcanic flow was equal parts heartonsleeve confessionalism and weathered survivor's grit. It's Classick, though, that announces her desire and better yet, potential to change the whole game. That's mostly due to the EP's highlight and obvious talking point, \"Cleaning Out My Closet\". Released a few days in advance of the mixtape, the track describes in searingly vivid detail just what makes Haze a survivor: it's about a series of rapes she endured beginning at age 7. \"I was just a toddler or kid, and he wasn't the first to successfully try what he did,\" she raps, each word landing like a dagger hurled through the haunting atmosphere of Eminem's familiar track. \"It was weird because I felt like I was losing my mind, and then it happened like it happened like millions of times/And I would swear that I would tell but they would think I was lying,\" she continues, her delivery charged with the power of a longheld, finally blurted secret. Just as chilling as the graphic description of abuse, though, is the song's second half, which finds Haze cataloguing the psychological damage she dealt with in the wake of the trauma. \"I started starving myself, fucked up my bodily health,\" she confesses. \"I didn't wanna be attractive to nobody else.\"   \"Cleaning Out My Closet\"'s power is its plainspoken clarity. In music as in society writ large, rape is an evil often cloaked in euphemism and distanced through metaphor (think of the recent stir about Missouri Congressman Todd Akin's befuddled concept of \"legitimate rape,\" or the more generalized terms \"abuse\" and \"molestation\" that some activists boycott). But the power of \"Cleaning Out My Closet\" comes from the way Haze forces the listener to confront the realities in lucid detail. After a particularly graphic line, she throws us this aside, \"Disgusting? Right, now, let that feeling ring through your guts\" and it does, every word. In less able hands, such a loaded topic especially when addressed so early in an artist's career could be mishandled in any number of ways. But the fact that Haze can turn an unspeakable horror into such a thoughtful and articulately powerful song speaks volumes about her agile skills. \"Closet\" is an unforgettable four and a half minutes of music that leaves you feeling emotionally spent but also comforted to be in the care of an expert, fearless storyteller. And though it's been obvious headlinebait, there's more to Classick than \"Cleaning Out My Closet\". Of almost equal intensity is the opening cut, Haze's take on Lupe Fiasco's controversial \"Bitch Bad\". As ever, Haze's hyperreal lyrical snapshots are more concerned with life than other people's art. While Fiasco's somewhat muddled message blames hiphop for fueling the sexualization of young girls and sees women as disempowered victims of its influence, Haze's version flips the script, asking us to consider men as potential victims too. \"To sit and stay, she learned it from her mother,\" she says, \"But imagine how it all affected her little brother.\" Though she raps about empowerment, obstacles, and overcoming systemic oppression, Angel Haze is not trying to censor or tailor her identity to fit into the often alienating \"conscious hiphop\" box. Hers is a hardwon positivity, one that sheds light on dark truths and complex problems but never patronizes or moralizes.  And anyway, she's too much of an entertainer for that. Despite the heavy themes, there are moments on Classick when Haze lets her guard down, whether it's focusing her humor on her version of Missy Elliott's \"Gossip Folks\" (\"I heard Angel Haze grew up in a pothole... I heard the bitch deepthroated two lizards and an anaconda\") or sitting out a high note on the chorus of \"Doo Wop (That Thing)\" (\"Man, fuck that part,\" she laughs). Her take on the Lauryn Hill classic is actually the weakest moment here, only because its spirit sticks so close to the original. It feels a little like an ambitious aspiring artist tracing over one of her idol's most vibrant paintings; the leap from, say, Hill's \"Don't be a hard rock when you really are a gem\" to Haze's \"Don't be treated like a 5 when you really are a 10\" show that there's still room for her lyricism to grow. But just the fact that she's drawing fresh inspiration from Hill is enough. Hiphop's still got a huge LBoogieshaped void, and Haze feels like the first new artist in a while with the personality and talent to potentially fill it in her own way. As Angel Haze preps her major label debut for the spring, there's one big uncertainty: her beats. The tracks on Reservation pivoted from Timbalandlite minimalism to cloud rap puffs to the occasional acousticguitar tinged misstep (one worrisome thing that New York Times interview revealed: a troubling affinity for Jason Mraz and Train yes, that Train that sort of retroactively explains some of Reservation's incongruently breezy, Beats By Mraz flair). It seemed to try a little of everything in search of sonic vocabulary that makes sense for Haze. Still, her two strong mixtapes have let us witnessing her becoming: even if Angel Haze's sound hasn't arrived fully formed, her ferocious talent is obvious. \"I'm shaping myself up for the crossover,\" she said to the Times, citing vocal and guitar lessons and her love of pop and rock. But Classick shows so clearly why hiphop needs her: given the ease with which she can pull poetry out of its darkest corners and challenge its most enduring taboos, Haze has quickly become one of its greatest and most progressive hopes. "}