{"label":" Type","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18579/homepage_large.2c6db956.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Pete Swanson","title":"Pro Style EP","text":" A deluge of psychedelic sound and caffeinated beats, Pete Swanson's 2011 LP Man With Potential suggested new paths for electronic noise while still deploying all the weapons he's honed through over a decade of musicmaking, both solo and with Yellow Swans. That musicmaking has included pretty diverse, encompassing noise, drone, psych, techno, extended guitar (see his most recent effort in the duo Sarin Smoke with Charalambides' Tom Carter), and more. Fortunately, Swanson decided his noisy take on EDM is worth developing further, and on the threetrack Pro Style he does just that. In fact, he uses the shorter format not to tighten, but to expand two of the three songs here are longer than any single cut on Man With Potential, and they all stretch further, morphing together patterns with a more graded progression. Still, this is bold, busy music, with lots of sonic debris flying around while Swanson's beats drive forward. And Pro Style is more accessible and punchy than Swanson's previous effort. You can imagine his hectic maelstrom pounding through a sweaty club late at night. Pro Style's relative accessibility comes from its more prominent beats. The difference is a matter of shading, since the beats on Man With Potential weren't exactly buried. But here Swanson turns the hue up on his throbbing pulses, making them shine more brightly and speed past more vividly. That's at least true of the opening title track, which steps on the beat pedal 30 seconds in and never lets up, navigating technicolor noises that swirl like confetti in a wind tunnel. The following track, \"Pro Style (VIP)\", offers a fascinating variation: wooly and abrasive, it chops beats into pure static, creating an hypnotic swath of cutting noise. The result is some of the most catchy abstraction imaginable think of it as dancehall fuzz. Pro Style gets most expansive during 12minute closer \"Do You Like Students?\" Here, Swanson fully engages something he perfected with his Yellow Swans partner Gabriel Saloman: a knack for building sound so gradually that it overwhelms you before you realize it, like a drug that kicks in while you're focused on something else. \"Do You Like Students?\" also has the druggy effect of being both hectic and soothing, which is what to me makes Swanson's music more like headtargeted psychedelia than bodymoving dance. But this is just one side of Swanson we're talking about certainly he'll continue to pursue all the myriad modes he's chased in the past, with effects both mental and physical. I like the idea of his EDMleaning alter ego continuing alongside his other musical personalities, though, staying its bold, pulsing course as Swanson dives freely into whatever other tangents his various muses dictate. "}