{"label":" Crouton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1726/homepage_large.70dfe6fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Richard Chartier","title":"Archival 1991","text":" Emptiness; like the sound of hopelessness as you fall through wide corridors, surrounded on every side by an icy, metallic barrier and the flush of a chill wind suffocating any lingering thoughts of the natural world. Depressing? This kind of emptiness even devours depression, acting like a vacuum for emotion. There is no hope, only space. Whenever you think you see a light at the end of the cylinder, it turns out to be an illusion. This is not a dark place, rather an infinite reflection of light without source. You are falling quickly; the bite of the draft momentarily distracts you. In some way, giving into the downward spiral seems like the easiest way to crawl out though at your speed, crawling would do little. No, this seems much more permanent. It is the sound of sudden death. Okay, I'll back up. Luckily, the impressions I get from sound artist Richard Chartier's strikingly minimal Archival 1991 are not quite as permanent as death. They are pretty extraordinary, capable of as much resonance as you're willing to invest in them. Since there isn't much \"activity\" involved in the single 46minute track, the mind has plenty of time to wander into spaces most people probably shy away from as a matter of practice. This isn't to say the music is boring, but merely suggestive where most commercially available stuff (even experimental) works in brighter, more persuasive colors. This CD probably requires an allotment of time alone (or with very attentive friends), in an uncluttered space. In truth, it probably requires a lot more than that, but if you're willing to give it a chance, there are some pretty amazing/scary head games to play. Some people might actually know Chartier (born 1971) better as a graphic designer. In addition to designing all his CD art, he's had work featured at New York's Whitney Museum of American Art and Belfast's Catalyst Arts gallery. His visual aesthetic seems to emphasize the sleek, minimal and straightforward, as if designing an instructional manual for members of a particularly eclectic deepspace exploration team might be his dream job. Fittingly, his music tends not to recall scenes from daily or natural life, but coolly impressionistic vignettes of a scientific world. He releases much of his music on his own Line imprint, though also put out an excellent compilation this year of his nonLine compositions, Other Materials. According to Chartier, Archival 1991 began as two synthesizerbased pieces originally created in 1991. This summer, he revisited (i.e., applied much digital trickery to) those pieces to form this release. As I hear it, he's done a masterful job of integrating the source material into a seamless whole; Archival 1991 not only doesn't sound like a \"remix\", it threatens to overwhelm whatever source might have gone into it. Although beginning hardly louder than the hum from your stereo, it's the kind of piece that will draw you in before you realize how much time has passed. Strictly speaking, this is ambient music, but that shouldn't imply that it's sterile. The piece works through many ebbs and flows. It begins subtly, sounding not unlike the angry sea as heard through a conch shell. Throughout, I'm reminded of the open sound of rushing wind or large bodies of water. A few minutes later, I realize the sound has become more intense, as if nearer the heart of a turbulent current. Furthermore, there are passing washes of bass, guttural in their pitch, but as smooth as a glacier. These washes become more pronounced (and deeper) as the piece reaches its midway point, and as such, the surrounding windlike sounds retreat to the upper registers. Over time, the winds mostly subside, and the bass seems more focused though that could be that I've become much more used to its patterns over the last half hour. Archival 1991 ends as these bass movements spiral into nothingness. If this is emptiness, it is intimidating only in that we are left to our own devices to find a happy ending, or even recognizably \"human\" signposts along the way. However, it's an impressive emptiness from an interesting composer. "}