{"label":" In the Red","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18589/homepage_large.f1063789.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Evan Minsker","artist":"Tyvek","title":"On Triple Beams","text":" Tyvek are a Detroit band, which is definitely a point of pride for them. In interviews, they talk about the city not just as a place where they derive inspiration or play shows, but as a place where the community is obligated to fill a vital role. \"I feel like in other cities there might be more of a separation from the different crews or different scenes, whereas in Detroit people are supporting each other just by default so they have something to do on a Saturday night,\" frontman Kevin Boyer said. \"It's definitely a survivor kind of city.\" In the past, something like \"survivalism\" made itself apparent in the band's nearhardcore aggression, especially on their 2010 album Nothing Fits. That's still present for On Triple Beams, but in a key moment, they soften somewhat to deliver a unifying anthem for Detroit's punks, nerds, and audiophiles fighting for something to do on Saturday night. That anthem is \"Wayne County Roads\", which takes its name from the greater Detroit area. The song's title is chanted in response to the line, \"Can you explain to me just how we get home?\" It's a song not about the sort of \"white flight\" city desertion from the history books, but about recent, specific young people ditching the city for other places. \"Friends that I hold so dear, it's sad to report/ Not hardly one soul around to defend the fort.\" It's a depressing notion, but the title is chanted as a sort of rallying cry there are fewer soldiers around, but that's all the more reason to fucking do something. Appropriately, the song comes right after a track called \"City of a Dream\", which discusses the recent efforts to \"rebuild\" Detroit. Boyer's view of the current situation is cynical, though he sings it over a cheerful progression: \"City of a dream, but it's just a lie/ You can write about it in the Sunday Times.\" But aside from the standard bitterness seemingly directed at politicians and the media, there are glimpses at real life in the city, like working at Temple Bar or the movie theater. If the allusions to the big picture make On Triple Beams feel contemporary or significant, it's the descriptions of \"Midwest Basements\" and the MOCAD namedrop that make it feel special. And since it's Tyvek we're talking about here, most of the tracks emanate urgency in nearly every respect. The guitars are buzzy and loud, the rhythms are quick, the drums crash, the lyrics are densely packed into a short span of time, and Boyer spits them out with punk rock confidence. His words are often eloquent, but sometimes, shit's just too frustrating for poetry. On \"Little Richard\", he sings about not being able to afford rent or heat, which eventually leads to, \"Click clack click clack click clack FUCK/ We've got a live one, we've got a live one!\" It's a simple, understandable descent into nonsensical anger. More often than not, tackling current events on a punk record can end with corny and terrible results. But Boyer and Tyvek succeed because they don't set out to make a condescending, chastising political record. Yes, they allude to the current state of Detroit, but they also reference what sound like personal details from their own lives: friends moving out of town, sleeping in Midwestern basements, getting drunk, forcing the band into the van by 3pm, working tomorrow with Steve, etc. It's not a romantic view of Detroit at all, but idealism has never been Tyvek's thing. Do they offer a great reason to come to town and support the local scene? Hell no. But that's not what they're trying to do. With their urgent, sometimes aggressive, sometimes anthemic delivery, they show us Detroit from their vantage point. "}