{"label":" Stax / Red / Soul Temple","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18611/homepage_large.ab3f4092.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ian Cohen","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Man With the Iron Fists OST","text":" RZA's directorial debut, The Man With the Iron Fists, may not be a great movie. But I don't think making a great movie was his goal. It seems more likely RZA wanted to make an awesome movie, and the difference lies in a willingness to embrace the absurdity of the medium. RZA skirts the line between cliché and homage, conflating eyepopping violence with gutbusting laughter. Most critics have referred to The Man With the Iron Fists as a \"spectacle\" and rightfully so: A spectacle allows you to gawk at its audacious showmanship. There will be time for chinstroking and nodding later. The accompanying soundtrack boasts several things the movie lacks: continuity, professional editing, intelligible dialogue. The Man With the Iron Fists OST is a strong album and certainly the best Wuaffiliated product since Only Built 4 Cuban Linx... Pt. II, but it never strives to be awesome. And for a RZA project, that means it can't be great either. The conservative streak of Iron Fists is understandable on two levels: For one, it's RZA's first of what may be many bigmoney Hollywood projects. And he's recently gone on record saying the Wu could achieve one final triumph, provided he takes full command. Whether the Wu's recent failures are more attributable to a lack of leadership or the decline of their MCing is up for debate, but the latter was the issue on 8 Diagrams. While not as overt about siphoning prior goodwill as Cuban Linx Pt. II, Iron Fists does recall the last truly great WuTang group project helmed by RZA, the Ghost Dog OST. This makes sense, since the format is both an advert for Wu's internal vitality and a display of what outsiders can legitimately be housed under their imprint. Though RZA produces only four tracks, his influence is obvious: Iron Fists is unified by a grainy, blaxploitation sonic blueprint that runs parallel to the movie's grindhouse aesthetic and allows for simmering soul pieces from Corinne Bailey Rae and the Revelations as well an appositely chipper Japanese pop song to sit alongside M.O.P. and Freddie Gibbs. Still, the vast majority of the music here has an antiheroism to run counter to its cinematic influences. RZA's character in Iron Fists is a blacksmith that channels an esoteric, cosmic energy to become a human weapon, but most of the songs here seem to identify with the Blacksmith's day job. \"Black Out\" features M.O.P., Ghostface, and Pharoahe Monch in a grouping that surely excites on name alone as does the Raekwon, Ghost, and Kool G Rap showcase \"Rivers of Blood\".  But the stakes feel a little low: the songs are perfunctory and workmanlike, and given the context of The Man With the Iron Fists, you wish they'd provide something more animated and celebratory. Opener \"Baddest Man Alive\" aims for that territory, exhuming the BlakRoc project, which is still a fairly simple concept: rap over a slower Black Keys song. It's enjoyable hearing RZA using his serious voice while not taking himself so seriously, something akin to Bobby Digital rebranding himself as a Saturday morning cartoon (though he'd have to do away with lyrics like \"I date rape Beauty right in front of the Beast.\") Otherwise, RZA looks outside his Clan to channel the film's base desires. Kanye West's \"White Dress\" is an outlier; though coproduced by RZA, its narrative conceit of European shopping sprees and clubhopping recalls Graduation and its cyberAsian artwork as opposed to the kung fu kitsch of Iron Fists. Unfortunately, Talib Kweli takes a vaguely similar approach on \"Get Your Way (Sex Is a Weapon)\", nicking a stray line from JayZ's \"Ain't No Nigga\" for a lame bout of puns.  The most interesting tracks on Iron Fists extend a temporary Wu visa to some of their more obvious progeny. There might not have been a father to Ol' Dirty Bastard's style, but it's possible to hear Danny Brown as an illegitimate son. And when he pops up at the end of the funereal Pusha T, Raekwon, and Joell Ortiz collaboration \"Tick, Tock\", it's transformative in a way that's almost too jarring. On the other end of the spectrum, Freddie Gibbs fits in all too well with Method Man and Streetlife. His technicallyobsessed hardhead raps come off like a less offkilter Masta Killa or a gullier Black Knights rather than the consummate gangsta rap loner guise he's made a career on. I'm at a loss to explain where Wiz Khalifa fits into all of this, since the B.o.B.styled warbling hooks and dormroom acoustic strums of \"I Go Hard\" convey the opposite message of its title. Iron Fists is competing against the movie's lurid visuals as well as the past work of everyone else involved. \"Black Out\" is a perfectly fine piece of beatdown rap in a situation that would've benefited from something more along the lines of \"Simon Says\" or \"Ante Up (Robbin Hoodz Theory)\". The fullon WuTang posse cut \"Six Directions of Boxing\" is unerringly solid and composed, but could easily slide into the back end of WuTang Forever relatively unnoticed; The Man With the Iron Fists, in all of its irresponsible Rrated gore, is more along the lines of \"Da Mystery of Chessboxin'\". There is indeed a Wu banger that plays during Iron Fists' absurdly violent instant classic of an opening battle, but is it anything that appears on this album? Nope, it's \"Shame on a Nigga\", Ol' Dirty Bastard \"live and uncut,\" serving as a muse whose inspiration is perhaps too prevalent on the movie and not enough on the soundtrack. "}