{"label":" Mosaic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18608/homepage_large.3e999a79.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hank Shteamer","artist":"Charles Mingus","title":"The Jazz Workshop Concerts 1964–65","text":" In one sense, The Jazz Workshop Concerts 1964–65, a limitededition sevendisc box set, reiterates a wellestablished fact: The sextet that Charles Mingus took on tour in 1964 belongs on the short list of alltimegreat jazz groups. The bassist/leader was the mastermind, but the star was Eric Dolphy, a virtuosic, modernistminded improviser on saxophone, bass clarinet, and flute, who was mere months from death due to undiagnosed diabetes at the time of the shows documented here. Collectors know this band well, through various live recordings made in the spring of 64, including a film of the April 12th Oslo show and an exemplary 2007 doubleCD set, Cornell 1964. The first four discs of The Jazz Workshop Concerts which compiles five goodtogreatsounding fullshow recordings from Mingus's personal archive, three never before issued in their entirety present two more shows from this run: April 4 at Town Hall in New York (excerpted on a 1964 LP issued by Mingus's Jazz Workshop label) and April 10 at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam (released on a limitededition French LP in 1985). Like every showing by the 64 Mingus sextet, these are outstanding performances, but whether you're craving additional versions of a familiar set list depends entirely on your level of fandom. (Mosaic, the label behind The Jazz Workshop Concerts, is a hallowed name among jazz completists; full disclosure: I contributed liner notes to a 2010 Mosaic box focused on avantgarde innovator Henry Threadgill.) But this set, a commemoration of Mingus's 90th birthday anniversary this past April, also contains assorted other treasures, at least one of which a performance from May 1965, less than half of which originally came out on a rare Mingusreleased LP called My Favorite Quintet feels like its own landmark. It's hard to beat the '64 band, but during the year and a half following Dolphy's death, Mingus didn't let that tragedy slow him down. We hear him here at consecutive Monterey Jazz Festivals (September '64 and '65) and at the May '65 show, presenting ambitious, socially engaged, composercentric sets. One of The Jazz Workshop Concerts' key pleasures is contrasting the familiar fireworks of the '64 working band with the fascinating odds and ends that follow. This set is not Mingus 101. If you don't own staples such as Mingus Ah Um, Charles Mingus Presents Charles Mingus, and The Black Saint and the Sinner Lady, The Jazz Workshop Concerts will likely be too specific for your needs. But for listeners interested in taking a long, hard look at a prolific and tumultuous period in this great composer's life, it's well worth the plunge. Hearing the '64 sextet material found here, it's hard not to focus on the tragedy of Dolphy's impending demise. The multiinstrumental marvel was on an incredible roll that year, having found time to record his own magnum opus, Out to Lunch!, and appear on Point of Departure, a masterpiece by the enigmatic pianist Andrew Hill, amid his commitments to Mingus. But The Jazz Workshop Concerts affords the chance to reassess this lopsided view of the band. It was an incredibly deep group, with each of the other musicians providing a unique texture: the hardbop brawn of tenor saxist Clifford Jordan, the gentle lyricism of trumpeter Johnny Coles, the prismatic, goodhumored splendor of pianist Jaki Byard, the devilishly mutable pulse of drummer Dannie Richmond, and Mingus's own nimble majesty on bass.  Mingus' spring '64 setlists, favoring elastic forms with tons of solo space, seem designed to flatter his sidemen. This is especially evident on the 21minute Amsterdam version of the Charlie Parker tribute \"Parkeriana\", during which Mingus yanks the rhythm section out from under each soloist in turn. Byard uses his break to bust into one of his patented stridestyle jaunts, sounding like an overdriven player piano. Later, Dolphy swoops and yelps in the foreground as Jordan and Coles calmly quote the melody of the Dizzy Gillespie–Frank Paparelli bebop classic \"A Night in Tunisia\", which Mingus had played with Parker and Gillespie at a famed 1953 gig at Toronto's Massey Hall. Moments such as this illustrate one of Mingus's chief imperatives as a bandleader: Honor the past but interrogate it, juxtapose it with the sound of now.    If \"Parkeriana\" and other fixtures of the '64 sets favor a loose, jammy feel, the centerpiece of these shows, \"Meditations on Integration,\" aims for a very different mood. The Jazz Workshop Concerts features three versions of this sprawling suite, but the one to focus on is the 27minute Town Hall rendition. This performance, which Mingus dubbed \"Praying with Eric\" on its initial release, is straightup phenomenal. It isn't just the highlight of the box; it's one of the crown jewels in the Mingus discography. The piece reflected Mingus's appropriately grim view of the contemporary AfricanAmerican condition the only difference between the situation in the South and the Holocaust, Mingus tells the Town Hall audience, being that \"they don't have gas chambers and hot stoves to cook us in yet\" and that gravity is on full display in the music. Like The Black Saint and the Sinner Lady, it's a programmatic compositional triumph that transcends genre. Heard after this staggering statement, the '64 Monterey Jazz Festival performance on disc 5, which earned rave reviews at the time, feels comparatively tame. Recorded three months after Dolphy's death, it finds Mingus, Byard, and Richmond regrouping in the company of an alternate frontline altoist Charles McPherson, tenorist John Handy and trumpeter Lonnie Hillyer and running through familiar material: a medley of pieces by Mingus's idol, Duke Ellington, and \"Orange Was the Color of Her Dress, Then Blue Silk\", a mainstay of the prior sextet's repertoire. There's also a quasiorchestral version of \"Meditations on Integration\" here, which augments the core band with extra reeds and brass, but even with the added manpower, it can't muster the soulshaking drama of the Town Hall rendition. Fortunately, the 1965 material on The Jazz Workshop Concerts the My Favorite Quintet performance, also with McPherson and Hillyer, and a brassheavy octet appearance at that year's Monterey festival finds Mingus making conscious forward strides. Old standbys show up in these sets but several of the works are rarities, either duplicated only on a 2006 archival release, At UCLA 1965, or exclusive to this box. \"They Trespass the Land of the Sacred Sioux\" affords a vivid look at the underrated McPherson, who took on the daunting task of replacing Dolphy in the altosax role. McPherson plays beautifully on this episodic elegy, soloing first in tandem with flugelhorn player Jimmy Owens and then, at Mingus's urging (\"Alto! Alto!\"), alone. He hints at his predecessor's keening urgency, while sanding down the spiky edges and adding a touch of oldschool romance. As strong as the September '65 Monterey performance is, My Favorite Quintet (split between discs six and seven) is better. Recorded in Minneapolis in May of '65, this greatsounding document shows how the McPherson/Hillyer group carved out its own identity, distinct from the Dolphy/Jordan/Coles band. The opening track, a long, leisurely rendition of \"So Long Eric\", finds Mingus, Richmond and Byard having a blast prodding Hillyer with dropouts, crescendos, and headspinning tempo changes, as McPherson contributes bigbandstyle riffs in the background. The remainder of the concert covers a ton of ground. There's a charmingly retro take on the 1934 standard \"Cocktails for Two\", where McPherson nods to the signature vibrato of New Orleans jazz great Sidney Bechet; an unsettling spokenword protest piece (\"A Lonely Day in Selma, Alabama,\" which segues into the timeless \"Freedom\"); a gem of a Mingus piano solo, harking back to the 1963 LP Mingus Plays Piano; a consummately relaxed \"Themeless Blues\" that starts with a slapsticky Mingus/Hillyer duet; and a supertight sprint through \"Copa City Titty,\" which appears on other Mingus records as \"O.P.\" a nod to the bassist Oscar Pettiford. (Mingus helpfully informs the audience that \"titty\" was once slang for \"gig,\" and has \"nothing to do with mammaries.\")  The stage banter is mostly priceless. Near the end of the show, Mingus asks the audience to boycott his highprofile releases on Columbia, Atlantic, and Impulse, labels which he claims have failed to pay him ample royalties. (He okays RCA Victor exclusively, quipping, \"I imagine, because they make enough money with the atomic bomb, that they don't have to worry about cheating jazz musicians.\") Introducing \"Bird Preamble,\" another Charlie Parker tribute, Mingus takes a shot at the thenthriving freejazz movement: \"This is to sum up an era that some people think they have summed up, [because] they call themselves 'avantgarde.' And I've found that the avantgarde cannot play Bird yet.\" As an illustration of the Mingus temperament, both musical and philosophical, the Minneapolis recording is essential. A hotly contested and sometimes borderlinefarcical election year feels like a good time to revisit Charles Mingus' work. He sought to entertain without pandering, to educate without preaching, to mingle the past and present of his art form in alchemical ways. The Jazz Workshop Concerts 1964–65 is too focused to serve as a Mingus primer, but it does illustrate these core facets of his aesthetic by zeroing in on a key transitional phase. Just as importantly, it memorializes late, great radicals such as Eric Dolphy and Jaki Byard, while drawing attention to Charles McPherson, an undervalued veteran still with us. Spend good time with these seven discs and Mingus's multifarious genius snaps into crisp focus.  "}