{"label":" Pendu Sound","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18638/homepage_large.e60d671a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Kelly","artist":"Starred","title":"Prison to Prison EP","text":" Very rarely is there a great deal at stake for a band releasing their debut EP, and after a cursory onceover of Brooklyn bywayof Los Angeles duo Starred, you probably wouldn't disagree. Last summer, Liza Thorn and Matthew Koshak released \"No Good\", a dusty slowburner that reveled in its own negative space, hanging in midair with a mix of wonder and fear that was easy to see potential in. Never minding their handle, the old Mazzy Star comparisons still came easily, but thanks to some lucky timing, \"No Good\" managed to fill a more immediate void. Right as the song began to prick up ears, Christopher Owens frontman of San Francisco's madly beloved Girls announced that he'd be leaving his band behind. So while Starred's brokenhearted curiosity regarding the darker corners of pop had the Girls comparisons coming easily, too, there was more connecting the two acts than many realized. Before there was a Girls, there was Curls, which consisted of thenlovers Owens and Thorn. Though both the band and the relationship didn't last, the pair had clearly rubbed off on each other. \"Lust For Life\", one of the most notable indie pop songs from the past couple years and Owens' first real songwriting credit, was written about Thorn suntan, pizza, bottle of wine and all. Now with their Prison to Prison EP, Starred find themselves in a position to win over some of those dejected Girls' fans, and interested parties are most certainly paying attention. And well they should be. Prison to Prison is a satisfying, intriguing batch of songs that are far more engaging than the simple parts they're made of would suggest. Melancholic and druggy and often surprisingly straightforward, Starred are capable of evoking the same kind of vulnerability that made much of Girls' music so compelling, but in noticeably different ways. Prison to Prison offers both lullabied acoustics that impart a desolate country feel, countoured by spurts of postpunk and psychrock to create music that by all accounts should float right past you, but instead registers as surprisingly urgent. The results are often a little mixed, but almost always attentiongrabbing in some capacity. Single \"LA Drugs\" and \"Committee\" sit right in the middle of the EP, and function as the most stylistically evenhanded pieces. Both hover in ways that could read as anchorless or simply unspectacular, but are always grounded by the offputting hum of an organ or a jag of lightning scorched guitar (techniques that feel spiritually akin to EMA's Past Life Martyred Saints, though employed not quite as effectively). Even with the wattage cranked up a few notches, like on the sleazypretty \"Sure Bet\", there's still a balance at work that sidesteps some obvious pitfalls (in this case, an easy Kills ripoff) and offers something more dynamic. Bookends \"Call From Paris\" and \"Light\" highlight yet another one of Starred's strengths. A few years ago, a video surfaced of Courtney Love in a hotel room, singing a cover of \"Unsatisfied\" while to putting her makeup on in the mirror. Accompanied by only an acoustic guitar, it's both obviously unhinged and unexpectedly kind of great. Despite being far more carefully crafted and purposefully pretty, it's hard not to hear some of that rendition in these two tracks. Over the course of six songs, Thorn's vocals range from muttered to hushed to honeyed, but it's on \"Call From Paris\" and \"Light\" that these tiny resemblances to Love become a little more clear. \"It's everything you do, making all of these lies true,\" she sings on \"Paris\" with a bit of a rasp, placing a subtle snarl on the word \"lies.\" \"Light\" is even more contextually telling, as she sings, \"Someone in my light, and he's taking it all.\" It's not hard to venture a guess at who that's pointed at, ripe with shades of betrayal and delusion and bitterness that feel all but too familiarly lipsticksmeared. So suffice it to say that Prison to Prison is a pretty scatterbrained affair in spite of these songs' relatively streamlined structures. But unlike other bandsinprogress, Starred make their varied hatdonnings an asset. Instead of wading into these cloudy pools too deeply, Thorn and Koshak highlight the disparate parts of their musical personalities instead, making pretty music sound frequently maddened and elegantly defeated. Yet it goes without saying that they're at their best when everything falls into place, and you're able to peek into a potentially brighter nearfuture. That preview comes in the form of \"Cemetery\", a song that's warm and desperate in a way that recalls a folky, aqueous take on \"Just Like Honey\". Still, Starred are in the process of trying to figure exactly who they want to be, and that's perfectly fine. With songs as good as some of the ones on Prison to Prison are, they've earned themselves a little time. "}