{"label":" Fourth Wave","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18636/homepage_large.e66b2e6a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Gerry Read","title":"Jummy","text":" Gerry Read is just 20 years old. But it would be wrong to call him \"precocious\" or an \"upstart\"; for the most part, the British producer stays quiet and releases tracks. His relative anonymity press photos obscure his face; if he's on Twitter it's a really good disguise and steady release schedule have a lot more in common with the old Chicago and Detroit heads than the current generation of UK producers. In rare interviews, he is intimidatingly well adjusted: When asked if he'd always listened to house music, he declined and then added, \"I think people feel they have to say they've always been into loads of old shit though, as if having all these influences makes you look like you know what you're doing.\" Read makes his tracks quickly, without much editing and without much gear. He claims not to dance at clubs (he does DJ), though his scruffy, noisy tracks don't necessarily lend themselves to home listening. This is the digital generation's answer to secluded, auteur behavior. You won't hear \"Crawl\" in a hair salon; it takes several spins to realize how much his debut album, Jummy, distracts, and how this is one of its best qualities. On Jummy, Read reveals a dedication to haze and clutter mostly absent on his early singles, and it provides a necessary counterpoint to his Spartan loops. Where most producers have to avoid jampacking their tracks, Read struggles with adding enough material. Because on some level, presumably, he could just listen to the choppy vocal loop on \"Let's Make it Deeper\" forever. Read is one of the few producers confident or careless enough to slap a genre name on his productions house so let's use that. But this is arthouse, and Read spends Jummy exploring how the idioms of that genre can be suffocated and then, at the last minute, let up to gasp for air. He lacks Theo Parrish's brilliant ear for sound design (most do), but shares his hermitlike impulses and, increasingly, Parrish's abstractions of jazz and blues music. To put it another way, Jummy sounds like what Moodymann's Black Mahogani series might've sounded like if it had access to FruityLoops and Rapidshare. Jummy is built mostly from samples, mixing big, wet drum sounds Read records them from his own kit with short, cloudy bursts of Rhodes piano and mumbled halfsyllables. Throughout, the drums are bright and musical, the melodies stoned and irritable. Fans of Motor City Drum Ensemble or Flying Lotus will find common ground here, but Read is more obtuse than the former and less freespirited than the latter. Despite the prevalence of samples, Jummy never feel like a collage. It's more ordered. Deducing Read's track architecture is simple he does his work in eight bars or less and that can make his music seem simple; like staring at a great pattern, it's best to let the simplicity wash over you and to let the geometry tickle your brain. Tickle it will, too, because Jummy refuses to fade into the background. Credit the aggressive samples or the distinct friction created when Read pushes those drums against them. Jummy closes with \"Sidecar\", a ghostly, pale piece that that screams \"album closer!\" Its formless, dim neon proposes that Read has bigger ideas for an R&B hook than a great house track. But right now, Read is full of great, idiosyncratic house tracks and Jummy is packed with them. "}