{"label":" Leaf","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1729/homepage_large.0ba85923.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Colleen","title":"The Golden Morning Breaks","text":" When we describe records to you, we tend to talk about the other records they resemble, the genres they relate to, and the sorts of people who might listen to them: One band sounds like Joy Division, another has something to do with house music, another is for metal kids. Talk about The Golden Morning Breaks, though, and you'll find yourself stuck talking about nothing more abstract or general than the instruments used to make these sounds the bells and the protocellos, the cathedral ambience, and the 19th century glass glockenspiel. And sure, a lot of albums are all about sound. But what sets this one apart is how natural it is about that agenda: This is the rare variety of abstracted, postelectronic NewMusic recording that's almost entirely its own creature. (Sounds like? Sounds like beautiful bells!) On Colleen's last album, Cécile Schott crafted the same delicate drifts from ghostly samples and found sounds, but that just kept it all rooted in our common vocabulary of German sound artists and laptop soundscapers. With this album, she's left sampling behind entirely, crafting elegant, barelythere compositions from the pure timbres of instruments old and, well, old; will it surprise anyone that the album's title comes from the work of a 17th century lute virtuoso? So maybe you get something like Fennesz unplugged, or the Georgianera chamber version of Kompakt's Pop Ambient discs but then maybe you don't. Where your laptop dreamers turn their attention to the crackles and the staticky thunderstorms that hover around their music, Schott composes; the incredible \"Summer Water\" spends most of its time pushing strings into eversoslightly different arrangements, each new interval shading new colors onto the looping lute figure in the center. And where electronic ambience fills the stereo spectrum with one immersive swell of sound, Colleen sits closer to Brian Eno's original vision of it she's interested in the way these instruments can play delicate harmonic figures without ever gathering them up into linear form. Funnily enough, it's her most organized pieces that are both the most unique and the easiest to like; it's when she weaves farthest out into the abstract and the formless that she starts to sound most like something you've heard elsewhere. But only 15% of your brain is following what the instruments are playing. The other 85% is soaking in the pure sound of their reverberations the secretgarden chime of \"The Heart Harmonicon\", the harborspanning organ of \"The Happy Sea\", the rounded pluck of the lute and the pearly fog that drifts behind it. The strange part is that Schott's allnatural recordings and endlesslypretty harmonic shifts make this album far more accessible than you'd ever dream; PC technicians rarely get this musically hospitable, and I'm not sure who on the moderncomposition New Music side gets quite this relaxed and generous. (I'm not sure which of them would put a fairynuzzling unicorn on an album cover, either.) Oh, it's still abstract. Even if you love it, you may struggle to find the appropriate moments to really spend with it how much time do you set aside each week to sit quietly with your eyes closed and think about all the different qualities of light you could imagine when you were a child? And if you're not particularly inclined to that beautiful puresound formlessness, Colleen's moves in the opposite direction still might not make this much more than some glorious wallpaper not the worst role, but not the best Colleen can take. Because at its most effective, this album is kinda everything it should be, and everything we should ask: Something simple, beautiful, and coherent, something that feels remarkably imaginative but entirely unpremeditated. If I didn't have bills to pay and a kitchen to clean, I'd be all over it. "}