{"label":" Hippos in Tanks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18649/homepage_large.ff2b3dbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"James Ferraro","title":"Sushi","text":" James Ferraro's work is usually about layers, both in its dense sound and in the multiple meanings behind that sound. Some of his early releases were so murky and obscure that it was tough to sort through it all and glean his intentions. Yet when his music got ostensibly clearer and more accessible on last year's Far Side Virtual, the layers only seemed to get denser. Sonically, Ferraro eschewed his standard blurry sheen. But by lifting generic sounds from ads, apps, and other modern technological ubiquities, he pumped up the levels of irony and cultural commentary. And despite the surface clarity, the music was still dense it turns out listening to a month’s worth of smartphone alerts and Skype chimes in one 45minute chunk isn't easy. Far Side Virtual became Ferraro's most discussed and divisive effort, landing on yearend bestof lists as often as it got dismissed as a joke. All this continuing chatter made what Ferraro might do next fun to imagine but hard to guess. Subsequent quickhit mix tapes under the names Bebetune$ and Bodyguard mined hiphop and R&B, and both could have been meant as parody (or just afterthought). But Ferraro more recently expressed a desire to shed all the layers. \"You can contrive it to a point where it gets too heady,\" he told Dazed a few months ago. \"I'm not always trying to be hyperconceptual. That's inherently who I am, but I enjoy making music for people to listen to.\" He's followed through on that sentiment with Sushi, which is truly his most accessible album to date. Though smartly crafted and often referential to other music, it's relatively conceptfree, with little in the way of ironic jabs or culturejamming commentary. Perhaps there are jokes happening here that I'm not catching (and titles like \"SO N2U\" and \"Condom\" aren’t exactly serious). But to me Sushi sounds mostly like wellmade, engaging electronic instrumental music, the best of which rivals that of any current producer. What makes it engaging is its playfulness. Ferraro's loops often feel cartoonish not in the sense of caricature, but in the way snippets of voices and smatterings of sound effects add unpredictable humor. At best, like the whirring \"Jump Shot Earth\" or the chirping \"Flamboyant\", he conjures a smoother, more soulful version of Black Dice. That smoothness can get cheesy, but it's a sincere kind of cheesy rather than a winking one. And more often he's restrained and reflective, echoing Flying Lotus' laidback atmospheres, albeit with less emotional weight than Steven Ellison is capable of. That is perhaps where Sushi suffers a bit on the whole, it's more entertaining than resonant. Cynics might blame Ferraro's selfdescribed \"hyperconceptual\" nature, and assume he's mocking the idea that referential, artificiallyconstructed music can be moving. But I give Ferraro and his rather exhaustive track record more credit than that. In many ways he's a dedicated craftsman, and the elegant way he develops his pieces that creates its own kind of emotion. Besides, some tracks here are genuinely affecting. The chiming lope of \"Jet Skis & Sushi\" suggests technology fusing with humanity, and the closing song's wavy tones and ponging accents are oddly wistful, despite the fact that it's titled \"Bootycall\". Those moments suggest what Ferraro has begun on Sushi could deliver deeper rewards, if this mercurial artist sees fit to continue down this earnest path. "}