{"label":" Profound Lore","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18640/homepage_large.33f65f21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy O'Connor","artist":"Bell Witch","title":"Longing","text":" Take a look at the figure on the cover of Longing, the debut from Seattle doom duo Bell Witch. Its eerie presence is appropriate for a record defined by inescapable haunting and loss. On these six songs, bassist/vocalist Dylan Desmond and drummer/vocalist Adrian Guerra play patiently, and sparingly; they appear to be carefully purging themselves of an inexplicable force corrupting their bodies. Instead of going for a frontal assault, piling riffs upon riffs upon riffs, they opt for something subtler, a spacious approach that affects the entire nervous system. The album opens with a 20 minute journey into despair, \"Bails (of Flesh)\", a track that will likely weed out those who can't handle the unrelentingly downcast feel of the record. The tracks get shorter from there, but they also get sparser. Of note is \"Longing (the River of Ash)\", which grows more drawn out as it progresses. In this music of solitude, it's the loneliest track by far. Metal's defined by exaggeration, but the title Longing is perfect here: Desmond and Guerra want to go back to where pain didn't consume their reality. A duo's primary challenge is to find a way to fill up space with minimal equipment. Usually, when a doom band's a twopiece, the guitars are doubleamped and so downtuned that a bassist becomes irrelevant. Bell Witch flip this convention, employing a sixstring bass in place of a guitar. (Often, one can hardly tell it's a bass.) Even lacking guitar, Desmond constructs melodies reminiscent of funeral doom acts like Skepticism and Esoteric, adding a touch of American dirtiness from his experience as the bassist of Samothrace. There is one exception where the bass doesn't masquerade as a guitar. \"Beneath the Mask\", save for a sample from the Edgar Allen Poeinspired film The Masque of the Red Death, is a fiveminute drumless drone piece, where notes fly off and subsequently wither like Icarus on 33 1/3 RPM. The clean bass is more lonesome and more eerie than the distorted bass that the album's built upon. \"Mask\" seems like the perfect track to incorporate a sudden blast of hisses, feedback, screams something to make the listener jolt. It doesn't, and that suspense, like walking over rows of false trap doors, adds to the creepy atmosphere. Throughout, Guerra's growls are complementary of the genre, and he even throws in a few blackened shrieks on \"Rows (of Endless Waves)\". Desmond's clean vocals, however, are more compelling, taking different shapes throughout the record. His warm, forlorn style carries the latter half of \"Bails (of Flesh)\", turning maudlin doom into perverted praise music. It's not a far stretch to imagine this being played in some church that worships selfdestruction, congregants raising their hands up high, arms bleeding from cutting themselves. Desmond gives hails and salutations to the misery, like Om learning of a terminal illness diagnosis. The previously mentioned \"Rows\" sees Desmond's voice become more delicate, almost crushing under the weight of the music. Frailty is important to the variety of doom Bell Witch explores, but rarely does a vocal performance capture what it is to stand on the line between sanity and madness. Desmond will whisper certain lines in \"Rows\", adding emphasis without raising his voice. He channels dISEMBOWELMENT's Renato Gallina on \"Longing\" making that track a true successor to the Australian doomdeath quartet's 1993 classic Transcendence into the Peripheral. Remember that editorial arguing that metal vocalists are irrelevant? It wasn't entirely without merit, but Desmond challenges that line of thinking. He's got a cleverness and sense of space most vocalists don't possess. His voice is much like the music itself: it reverberates around, as if wandering and looking for a way out of this despair. Open and widereaching as it may be, there's also a sense of weighty claustrophobia in his voice, as if it's carrying his burdens, and the burdens of others, too. "}