{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18647/homepage_large.005d9129.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Miles Raymer","artist":"Charli XCX","title":"Super Ultra","text":" British electro pop singer Charli XCX's embrace of the mixtape makes perfect sense: It fits her association with dance music acts (a genre that's well suited to the format), her obvious debt to M.I.A. (who released her debut mixtape Piracy Funds Terrorism all the way back in 2004), and the importance of a rebellious, antiauthoritarian streak to her overall image. The free mixtape's direct line of communication from artist to listener, unimpeded by A&R execs, and the anarchic, genresmashing creative approach that it engenders feel very compatible with the times, and with XCX's internetmashing creative hybrids. Super Ultra is the second one she's released this year, after spring's Heartbreaks and Earthquakes, and it's an interesting experiment, if far from flawless. The eighttrack EP opens on a low note probably its lowest with a track featuring internet personality Brooke Candy, who is best known for appearing in Grimes' music video for \"Genesis\" and has a sideline in being a terrible rapper. The beat has a pleasing blunted feel and a catchy hook driven by a funky keyboard riff, but Candy's contribution sounds like the female half of a discarded turnofthemillennium Ja Rule duet, down to the outdated slang and submissivechick role she plays in her lyrics. With her nasal voice and awkwardlyfitting accent she comes off like the female Mickey Avalon who, much like Mickey Avalon, noone who actually likes rap music could possibly enjoy in any unironic way. \"Heatwave\" offers a convincing recreation of a brand of 80s electroclash that's been redone a vast number of times since the genre's heyday, while the droopy \"Moments in Love\" suggests that Charli might be better off with a supervisory eye looking over her shoulder. (If there wasn't one the presence of a link to Atlantic's UK division at the bottom of the page that homes Super Ultra suggests that it's not entirely free of label ties.) But there are a few bright moments on Super Ultra. \"Velvet Dreaming (Luv)\" is spacey and ravey in a way that bears more than a passing resemblance to the Orb's \"Little Fluffy Clouds\", and the ecstatic synthesizer crescendo accompanied by an extended sample of dialogue from True Romance that pops up 30 seconds in would likely have gotten it the axe if she'd tried placing it on an album for a label. The same goes for \"Glow\", which has a beat that sounds like Clams Casino and a weary, dissipated vocal that doesn't fit the established outlines of a pop star personality. And then there's the recordclosing \"Forgiveness\", which is legitimately gorgeous and weird. It begins as a plaintive piano ballad before waves of strings and drums sweep over and it transforms into a minorkey dirge. It's awash in vocal effects that suggest some sort of emotional breakdown, along with an insistent cowbell that somehow feels vaguely maniacal and menacing in the context of everything that's going on. Charli's vocals show off all of her starworthy talents, but the lyrics go deeper than selfdoubt, all the way down to selfloathing and a raw, unembellished portrait of a dark psychic space. After listening a dozen times I realized that it most reminded me of of Montreal's epic meltdown \"The Past is a Grotesque Animal\". \"Forgiveness\" is a fascinatingly strange song, and who knows if it would have made it onto Super Ultra if it had been intended to shift units on a pop star level. In any case, it's a compelling argument for letting these kind of pop stars off the leash. "}