{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18654/homepage_large.6889f22e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"The Rosebuds","title":"Love Deluxe","text":" At first blush, the Rosebuds covering the entirety of Sade's 1992 LP Love Deluxe may seem baffling. \"What's next?\", one might ask. \"Mates of State perform Anita Baker's Rapture?\" Anyone who's followed the Rosebuds' career for the past decade knows that there's a bit more logic to such an idea, though. Since titling their 2003 debut The Rosebuds Make Out, Ivan Howard and Kelly Crisp have structured their recording career around the ups and downs of their personal relationship, culminating with 2011's Loud Planes Fly Low, the duo's first LP after their divorce and agreement to continue their creative partnership. Offered as a free download on their Bandcamp site, Love Deluxe more or less a Howard solo project abetted by Rosebuds collaborators is a kind gesture and loving 20th anniversary tribute. This much is obvious: no one else can be Sade. Over the past decade, even Sade can only be Sade every eight to 10 years the group is not exactly known for its prolificacy. Still, the band's sumptuous, smooth music shows no signs of wear, even subjected to the withering winds of musical fashion cycles. If anything, much of the original Love Deluxe still sounds relevant today, particularly given the admiring updates to the Quiet Storm sound by any number of acolytes given positive reviews on this website. Perhaps the greatest compliment to pay the Rosebuds' cover of Love Deluxe is that it's not necessary to have any familiarity with the original to enjoy its remake Howard knows his limits, and successfully folds the smooth R&B original into a DIY indie mindset; like applying a martial rhythm to \"Kiss of Life\" or substituting sax for piano on \"I Couldn't Love You More\", nodding toward Destroyer's softrock Merge opus Kaputt. Even millennial Merge fans who confuse Sade with the ladies from the Robert Palmer video can enjoy this album on its own merits. Several original tracks receive minimal adjustments from Howard he knows better than to mess with the classic 12 opening combo of \"No Ordinary Love\" and \"Feel No Pain\", save for some slight alterations of phrasing, a much dryer mix, and the addition of blocky live drums, which translates \"Pain\"'s minimal island blues into something more akin to indie rock. \"Pearls\", on the other hand, remains as much a treacly bit of social commentary today as two decades ago, not improved in the slightest by a white dude crooning about a \"woman in Somalia.\" Howard has dabbled in indie R&B via participation in the Jagjaguwar supergroup Gayngs, but his voice much more closely recalls James Mercer's nebbish earnestness than Luther Vandross or James Ingram. It would have been very nice to hear Crisp's bright counterpoint vocals in this mix, but as it stands, Howard knows his limits and makes them work to his benefit. "}