{"label":" Instinct","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1731/homepage_large.bb594f18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"Isobel Campbell","title":"Amorino","text":" I'd had my fill of Belle & Sebastian by the time Fold Your Hands Child saw release in 2000, and gawked that year with voyeuristic wonder as their splinter projects, The Gentle Waves and Looper, slid into deserved ignominy. It seemed unlikely that Isobel Campbell's first solo record might be the statement of reformation that would break my spell of disenchantment with the band and their spinoffs, but I went into it with an open mind nonetheless. As a cellist and vocalist, Campbell's contributions to Belle & Sebastian ranged from harmlessly superfluous to irksome, and during her stint as the lead troubadour for The Gentle Waves, she rarely exhibited the merit to justify any sort of solo career, even while most of her work was pleasantly melancholic and remained respectfully restrained. For Amorino, however, that restraint has succumbed to an orchestral throng of players, who back Campbell as she unravels her featherweight whisper of a swoon over beds of intricately wrought, fluttering strings. As could be expected, the production is sharp, and the song structures are tightly wound and delicately unraveled. The problem is that the effort as a whole is too slick, and its charm suffers as a result. The stylistic approach of Amorino ranges from light New Orleans jazz to Lambchopinflected chamber numbers, with the songs frequently gliding from breathy girlpop to bebop without a single quirk. But while they do cascade with a certain cinematic grandeur, they generally lack the emotive prowess necessary to clue Campbell into any sort of revelatory or innovative ground. A classical sense abounds, but never delivers upon the pulling threads of musical sentiments past. \"The Cat's Pyjamas\" might be heard on a New Orleans Prohibitionist's night out, with Campbell playing the coy role of sophisticate. \"October's Sky\" and \"Song for Baby\" playfully hint at traditional and Parisian light jazz, augmented by fleeting buoyant string and flute lines. On \"Monologue for an Old True Love\", Campbell's orchestral backing makes its first vainglorious approach as she navigates a sea of bossa nova horns and 60sinspired drum and guitar work. The problem being not Campbell's vocal touch, but her inability to emotively carry the more subtly melodic moments or the sweepingly fauxinspirational tones of revelation: her soft intonation lulls somnolently no matter the background fare. Whereas some moments (such as the more modernflavored \"There Is No Greater Gold\") approach Moon Safariinspired tones of soft concession, Campbell fails to gently brush strokes of naked disclosure the likes of Beth Hirsch. It's this ineptness to ever truly engage that sinks Amorino in the end. Though it just may be too pleasant to actually offensive, the absence of any epochal splendor remitted over the course of such a wellcrafted effort does leave a mark. Or perhaps it leaves none at all. "}