{"label":" Ultramarine","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/18650/homepage_large.6df69f0f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Gate","title":"Damned Revolutions","text":" Earlier this year the excellent British label MIE released a doublevinyl edition of The Dew Line, the 1994 album by Michael Morley's solo project Gate. The reissue was a nice reminder of the peculiar magic Morley conjures with thick guitar, monotone vocals, and the occasional beat. At its best, such as in the twochord, 12minute epic \"Have Not\", The Dew Line offered noiserock slowed to a crawl and coated in syrup, as if Morley recorded it in a codeineinduced haze. Stretching riffs into drones that still maintained a rock thrust, he made lethargy hypnotic. After The Dew Line, Morley has veered mostly toward computerbased music, incorporating samples and even some dance beats. The overall effect of the sound has been similar to that of his early work, mostly due to his mesmerizingly sluggish singing. But certainly some Gate fans must have wondered if he would revisit the heavyfuzz style that made mid90s records like The Dew Line, Guitar, and Golden so compelling (and such worthy companions to his work in New Zealand trio the Dead C.) Damned Revolutions, the first Gate LP since 2010's beatdriven A Republic of Sadness, is a clear return to that sound, and a triumphant one. Triumphant is perhaps an odd word to use for music this subdued and uninterested in hurrying to get anywhere. But Damned Revolutions' slomo moans and roomfilling guitar are bold, persistent, and once again hypnotic. There's no hesitancy in these two sidelong, 19minute pieces. It's all confident, purposeful timeexpansion, with no big moves or flashy changes needed to hold attention. Which is not to say that nothing happens on Damned Revolutions. It's actually a pretty busy record at times, with Morley cranking out extended guitar noise that rivals his farthestout explorations in the Dead C. But even those moments stretch time more then they mark it. The tick of the clock seems to fade away as Morley's pieces progress. That approach encourages you to get inside each sound without worrying about when it will end, and to absorb each moment fully rather than anticipate the next one. The two halves of Damned Revolutions take different angles to achieve this effect. On \"Turned And Glowing Inwardly\", Morley actually does mark time with a sparse, insistent pulse. But the more it marches on, the more it melts into his fog of vocals and guitar. Gradually, its robotic regularly starts to feel surreal and illusively lopsided, as if the woozy sound surrounding it were contagiously throwing it off. Beats are absent on \"Turning and Towards the Light\", a dark guitar improvisation filled with churning, distant chords. But instead of feeling scary or melodramatic, the track exudes a thorough, almost eerie calm, due to Morley's uncanny ability to stop time in its tracks without devolving into stasis. Though he avoids easy climaxes, the song still creates a kind of catharsis one felt more in reflection than action, more in reverberation than initiation. And it suggests that Morley's achievements on Damned Revolutions might resonate as long as The Dew Line's have perhaps even longer. "}