{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/18664/homepage_large.6256a2f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Laura Snapes","artist":"Sharon Van Etten","title":"Demos","text":" The newly released CD of demos that became Sharon Van Etten's third record, the markedly more aggressive, emboldened Tramp, underestimates itself in a fashion that suits its modest creator. With the exception of one song that didn't make the original tacked onto the end, the tracklist runs in the same order, as if comparing embryonic renditions to their final form in their intended order could be the only point of letting people hear your rough song sketches. Demos is the bonus half of a reissue of Tramp, though you can buy it separately. Tramp was likely given the deluxe treatment so soon after its initital release in order to sustain the newfound popularity Van Etten's seen this year: The Brooklynbased singer performed on latenight shows in Britain and America, and this week, played her biggest ever U.K. gig (2,000 capacity) and got announced as the main support for Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds' 2013 U.S. tour. All timeliness aside, though, Demos reveals the most when compared to an album that's nearly four years old. One of the nicest impromptu presents anyone ever gave to me was a CDR of Sharon Van Etten's home recordings, bought at an early British gig. The unmarked, homeburned CD came inside a piece of folded brown parcel paper, held together with black tape, decorated with a square of colorful wrapping. Inside it is another brown sheet covered in splodgy typewriter text: two sides of blocks of lyrics without punctuation or paragraphing, followed by a handwritten note apologizing for the noise on the recordings, a request for feedback, and an old email address. Most of the songs are on Van Etten's debut album proper, the acoustic Because I Was in Love, where they weren't exactly beefed up, but at least there were no trains rumbling past the studio window to intrude on proceedings. Home Recordings was done in Sharon's thenbasement, and her voice is often so quiet that even the atmosphere picked up by the microphone overpowers her. These recordings were made at a time when Van Etten's confidence was low, when she didn't have as many champions TV on the Radio's Kyp Malone initially encouraged her to play shows after she'd moved back to the northeast after escaping her exboyfriend when she was probably able to personally express her gratitude and hand change over to every person that bought their handmade copy of the CD at those early shows. A different kind of human interaction made Tramp a large ensemble affair produced by the National's Aaron Dessner, starring members of his band, and the Walkmen, Beirut, Wye Oak, the Antlers among others but the sense of solitude is just as important to Demos. Tramp was named as a nod to Van Etten's homelessness during the making of her third album, and Demos' liner notes in that same blobby typewriter font draw a map from the backstage area at a Warsaw show to a Bushwick basement, friends' places in Fort Greene, her parents' house in New Jersey, Tokyo, producer Aaron Dessner's Brooklyn studio, and her bedroom. The carefully produced package features a droopy selfportrait on the front, a halfhomage to those of Leonard Cohen, perhaps. (\"Leonard\" on Tramp was named for his influence; the cover of that record had Van Etten emulating John Cale's closeup portrait from Fear.) A note from Van Etten inside the Demos package was written from the first solo holiday she ever took, to Cancun in summer 2011 while recording Tramp, and ruminations on the comfort of aloneness (rather than loneliness) pepper the diary excerpts within the liner notes, where she also explains each song's origin. Some are as old as the music on Home Recordings, but only saw life on Tramp due to their author's hesitation to reveal a certain side of herself until that point. She calls \"Serpents\" \"really aggressive,\" and the lyrics here differ from the album in that it's Van Etten (or her character) who has thrown a bowl at someone at the start, and it ends with her raggedly challenging a knife with the threat, \"Well, I've got a gun\" unlikely, of course, but an unfettered expression of frustration, vengeance, and selfprotection against emotional abuse. Van Etten originally worried that \"In Line\", one of Tramp's most affecting songs, was too much of a \"dirge,\" but Dessner encouraged her to give it a go. The demo is one of the lesser formed songs here, where she beats at an acoustic's sloppy strings while feeling around the vocal melody; \"the world was shitty then\" is one of the only audible phrases. These demos appear in various states of finish, with Van Etten often either feeling out the space where words will eventually go, or extemporizing with a total lack of selfconsciousness, her streams of thought sometimes revealing more than the polished Tramp eventually would. You sometimes read bands talking in interviews about how even when they're playing the same songs at gigs each night, doing so takes them back to the exact point where they first wrote them: bullshit. \"Joke or a Lie\" is shorter than its Tramp equivalent, but there's a gulf between every lingeredover line; her liner notes reveal that this song was written after \"a lover gave up\" on her, recorded while \"chain smoking in my bedroom and letting the smoke rise between strums.\" She sings at full volume, a small reclamation of power in the face of desertion.  Home Recordings was intended as an invitation the show itself whereas Demos is the curtain reveal, dipping its toes into uglier palettes, marked by the gloom and clank of recording in confined spaces on primitive equipment. Stripping Tramp back to its most basic form demonstrates how Van Etten's approach to songwriting has changed. Home Recordings follows mellifluous folky structures with the guide of an acoustic guitar, but that tradition has disappeared from Van Etten's more recent writing; there's less ornate fingerpicking, and more monotone strumming that propels her rough lyrics along with a tense, anxious pace. There's no playing the singersongwriter, as Matthew Murphy alluded to in his review of Because I Was in Love; she's now beholden to letting what she wants to say dictate the shape rather than the other way around. By and large, Demos contains very little that would surprise anyone familiar with Tramp, but there's more to this collection than marveling at how funny \"Magic Chords\" sounds with a rinkydink drum machine instead of that snare purr, or the way \"I'm Wrong\" unfolds when stripped of the shimmering production parade with which it marches outward. As well as lifting the curtain on Tramp, releasing Demos feels like an act of dispossession masquerading as a modest recognition of appreciation. In 2012, Van Etten has released more music in one year than ever before there have been singles, bsides, a song for \"Boardwalk Empire\", a Christmas duet with Rufus Wainwright, a strange, \"Twin Peaks\"indebted foursong collection called Psychajealous that you got if you bought Tramp at London's Rough Trade. A certain swathe of people know about Sharon Van Etten, and a decent proportion of them know the muchcited, boyfriendrelated situation that inspired a lot of her music and has dominated much of the conversation around it. Demos feels like a final act of bloodletting. Whatever comes next will be a fresh body. "}