{"label":" Civil Music","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18661/homepage_large.28df240c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Starkey","title":"Orbits","text":" When Starkey released Ear Drums and Black Holes back in April 2010, it was still kind of risky for a North American artist to put their weight behind the idea of a dubstep hybrid that incorporated Dirty South production and AutoTune vocals alongside more traditional grime and 2step influences. It just wasn't as risky as it might have been a couple years before: there was already a thick, smothering atmosphere building in the air that made Starkey's eclectic approach seem like a cerebral sort of outlier when it dropped. Two months later, Sonny Moore posted his electrodabbler alter ego's debut EP My Name Is Skrillex to MySpace, and by the end of the year the parameters for what constituted a Stateside take on dubstep had drastically shifted to a monolithic wave of WUB WUB SICK DROPZ. When this stuff started filling arenas, the mainstream media decided the development was worth kicking a decade's worth of history to the curb for, and a nuanced, creatively diverse, longevolving genre was reduced almost overnight into onedimensional meme fodder by rockist blogs and YouTube jokemongers. It's enough to turn musical progressives into gateslamming reactionaries. To his credit, Starkey's own reaction to all this seems to be more of a brief side eye before getting back to the business of refining his own thing. Ear Drums and Black Holes was entertaining if somewhat uneven, not necessarily qualitywise but in outlook a bunch of ideas too good for the singlesplusfiller designation, but with a sprawl that pulled focus away from a real pivotal stylistic center. His new one, Orbits, manages to draw all his influences together into something more consistent, an actual streamlined signature sound that makes perfect sense given the records that preceded it. Like his 2008 Planet Mu debut album Ephemeral Exhibits and most of the singles and EPs that led up to it, he's made this album a oneman operation without collaborative efforts or vocal guest spots. So its idiosyncracies and surprises are all his, and there's a more direct route to getting a grasp on what he's been going for all this time, even if there's still no shortage of crossgenre leaps and welltimed mood swings. It helps that dubstep is only part of his music's DNA enough that it fits under a liberal definition of the genre, but not so much that he's tied down to its preconceived notions. Much of Orbits owes its sound to an engagement with longstanding influences; this is an artist who sounds the way he does because, as a DJ, he knows his way around what makes the foundational likes of Terror Danjah or Plastician tick and translates that through his own filters. But there are also multiple stabs at working with trap and footwork rhythms, whether they're straightup or salvaged for parts largely the latter, twisted out of shape in cuts like the jostling spaceLuger overload of \"G V Star (Part 2)\" or the fractured juke of \"Thugs\". There are brief, contemplative ambient interludes (\"G V Star (Part 1)\") and moments of Vangelisstyle classicsynth grandeur (\"Crashing Sphere\"). There's even a nod to trance in the closer, \"Distant Star\", that breathtakingly pits that genre's simple chords and 4/4 throb against Starkey's drive to make things more rhythmically and melodically slippery. That track then slams the door with a big shameless stadiumsized dubstep wobble out of nowhere before the fadeout, but it might scan more like a snarky joke instead of a fitting coda if it didn't have a wellthoughtout snarerattle/clap beat bristling underneath. That whiplash transition isn't a fluke, either in almost every track, there's some weird rhythmic structural curveball that upends the typical expectations of buildups and breakdowns and throws in new elements almost as an ambush. Where other songs ratchet up to a huge drop, he pulls the rug out and inverts the equation so elements disperse instead of explode. Here, ramping up to the isolation of an odd little melodic flourish like the ones in \"The Shuttle\" and \"Lzr\" has every bit the resonance as the wigpushing bass explosions these songs eventually swing back to. And while the slow build from jittery, drumless melodies and vocal samples to a succession of doorkick basslines and starcruiserliftoff synths in the anthemic \"Command\" is Make The Crowd Go Apeshit 101, it's just as impactful when the speakerrattling elements dissipate halfway through to let the moody melodic bits breathe again. Because of the way Starkey deploys his moments of hoppedup but measuredout clamor over intricate rhythms that are actually slower than they might first seem, it all works on both the visceral handsup level you get from big bass blowouts and the slowride zoneout level that lets listeners really sink into a beat. Which is a roundabout way of leading up to the fact that Starkey can get away with all this because his music's so emotionally evocative, even when it's wordless. (That's most of the time, though the judicious usage of his own AutoTuned voice on \"Magnet\" \"frequency is lost/ take one last breath\" is too haunting to be cloying.) He's skilled at drawing out catharsis and release through those very structures he messes with, where even the most frenetic melodies linger in the mind afterwards; it's best heard in \"Thugs\", which piles bass rattle after percussive fusillade after vocalsample tic on top of the simple, melancholy melodic figure it opens on but never actually overwhelms it or drowns it out. And he's not afraid to build hooks out of sounds that are annoying the first few times and catchy from there on out, like the weird plink/twang melody on \"G V Star (Part 2)\" that sounds like it's sourced from the foley of a tooth being yanked out in a 50s cartoon. This is some outlandish stuff, to be sure, but in a senseofadventure kind of way that feels in keeping with the vague, intitleonly themes of futurism and space travel that Orbits centers around. There are probably more uncharted worlds out there than we think, and Starkey seems hellbent on finding all of them. "}