{"label":" Spectrum Spools","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/18671/homepage_large.d8e3ba19.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Gaerig","artist":"Container","title":"LP","text":" Container's Ren Schofield makes techno, but he doesn't make techno like Carl Craig, Richie Hawtin, or Marcel Dettman. Instead, he's one of a growing number of noise and experimental artists to discover that loud, hirsute, pulsing beats are a potent way to disorient listeners. Those beats, mixed with a noisenik's abandon, can unearth soundworlds trady producers miss. For instance, \"Dripping\", the opening track on LP, Container's second fulllength for Cleveland's Spectrum Spools and the second of his LP's titled LP, features an obscene, highpitch frequency that sounds a lot like a bird's chirp. Carl Craig never disturbs my dog. Schofield's part of a sonic dialogue that includes American labels like Future Times, Spectrum Spools, and L.I.E.S. (Long Island Electrical System) that help bridge the gap between noise and dance. Combine that with a renewed interest in analog gear and performance by a generation of European DJs Blawan, the Analogue Cops, Juju & Jordash among them rediscovering techno proper, and you come to see how an unassuming guy who ran a tape label out of his Nashville ranch house comes to be seen as part of a movement. The pictures in the article linked above, coupled with LP, manage to say something that hundreds of frankly notthatdifferentinthegrandschemeofthings records from Berlin and London don't: that techno can be sloppy, unordered, punk, and, above all, casual. That it can have fuckall to do with geometry and design and clubbing until 8 a.m. the next morning. (Schofield's live sets are reportedly short, intense, and shrill.) Precious, homey metaphors are too easy to apply to LP, so take your pick: lumpy mashed potatoes, a wobbly stool, an askance picture frame. The best part about LP, though, is that it isn't precious at all. It's wily and sharp and thoughtfully brief. Schofield doesn't bother too much with traditional melodies and basslines, but he's more orderly than peers like Frak (true weirdos) or Pete Swanson (a nihilist in comparison). \"Perforate\" actually sounds quite a bit like Drexciya, both in its curt, iridescent palpitations and its blankstare vocal repetitions: \"Per/for/ate...Per/for/ate.\" Schofield uses up 80% of applicable adjectives just naming his songs: \"Dissolve\", \"Rattler\", \"Dripping\". They're tags that any techno beginner would think up: succinct, memorable, and descriptive. The tracks build, but not for too long, and avoid snowballing into big noisy messes. The exception is the closing track, \"Refract\", which unleashes a spanking, doubletime rhythmic blast that will absolutely cane your speakers. Schofield, of course, is not really exploring frequencies or structures heretofore unknown to techno. Above all else, Schofield offers an outsider's perspective, and it's one he's not afraid to lean on in deference to a genre's monolithic history. LP is efficient, prickly, and noticeable, or not much like modern techno at all. That he is operating like this at the same time many others are is a boon, for us, so long as he keeps his blinders on. "}