{"label":" Fool's Gold","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/18677/homepage_large.82462903.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Miles Raymer","artist":"A-Trak","title":"Tuna Melt EP","text":" Alain Macklovitch is a young dude with a musical career that already spans a decade and a half and has gone through several distinct phases. He started out as a babyfaced turntablist savant who won the most prestigious DJ competition in the world before he could legally drive a car. After that came the Sunglasses Is a Must era, where he left the insular world of turntablism for a gig as Kanye's tour DJ, and to figure out how to incorporate his hiphopderived skills into the emergent postindie dance music culture. We are now well into phase three, where he established himself as a legitimate EDM heavyweight with at least one certified rave anthem (\"Barbra Streisand\", which he recorded with Armand Van Helden under the name Duck Sauce) under his belt, as well as an eye for talent that's made Fool's Gold, the label he runs with the DJ/producer Nick Catchdubs, one of the most influential indies in the music business. Phasethree ATrak is not only the most successful of his incarnations but also by far the funnest. The turntablist scene he came up in has a marked tendency to emphasize technical chops over pleasure, but over the years he's evolved into a fullon hedonist who's not afraid to skirt the line of what some might call cheesiness, and has fully embraced the place in arenafilling quasimainstream EDM culture that \"Barbra Streisand\" helped earn him. After years of nearconstant gigging in nearly every shape and size of venue imaginable, Macklovitch has developed a very clear idea of what qualities a song needs to move a crowd, and his new foursong EP is definitely intended to put that knowledge to work producing yet another signature track capable of making tens of thousands of people lose their shit at the same time. It's possible that either \"Jumbo\" or \"Disco Nap\" could end up being that track. The former, produced with the Swedish EDM supergroup Galantis, has a frenetic, 90scyberpunk feel, and enough tweaky rhythmic breakdowns to appeal to an audience predisposed to dubstep. The latter, a collaboration with LA DJ duo Oliver, offers a popping electrofunk groove, acidhousestyle buildups, and a vocal hook that pays tribute to the popular and highly recommended practice of getting a nap in before going clubbing. But odds are it'll be either \"Tuna Melt\" or \"Landline\" that becomes the kind of inescapable song that’ll show up in every set of a multipleDJ bill without anyone in the crowd complaining. Both are precisely engineered to move bodies, to the point where it almost feels manipulative and unfair, as if you barely have a choice in the matter. Aspiring dance music producers should consider drawing out diagrams for their structures to learn where to add sounds, where to take them away, when to switch the tone of the synth playing the lead melody, and other essential qualities that a rave anthem needs. \"Landline\", a collaboration with the producer GTA, has several lessons to impart, including how one can manipulate a retro sound like a booming 90sstyle synth piano using modern ideas such as the glitchy clusters of notes popular with trap music producers, or where to shift the gears on the tempo from halftime to doubletime (and where to shift back), as well as the potential of a ridiculous sample (in this case of Woody Woodpecker's laugh) to push a song well over the edge of sanity. \"Tuna Melt\" is as immaculately and meticulously crafted as one of his DMCwinning turntablism sets. There isn't a superfluous sound in its nearly six minute span, nothing from the stunningly simple but inescapable main riff to the choppedup, divastyle female vocal sample that doesn't have a clear role in motivating the listener to dance. It has the ruthlessly efficient grace of an Alien xenomorph, and it doesn't require any chemical assistance to move an EDM fan to a place of total rave bliss. I suspect Macklovich won't have to write another arenasized anthem for at least a few more years. "}