{"label":" Durtro","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1736/homepage_large.8e3ef79a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Current 93","title":"Halo","text":" Live albums often bank on facile nostalgia: \"Man, I remember when they played 'Truckin'' as the seventh encore.\" In the case of folks who live in the middle of nowhere, the nuggets of stadiumsized atmospherics offer a vicarious pleasure: \"Man, now I know what 'Truckin'' would sound like as a seventh encore.\" Completists pay top dollar for these watery simulations, which generally only amount to lackluster archival material to occasionally inspire the indulgent juvenilia of sounding out banal rocker interactions with an invisible crowd. While in writing, Current 93's Halo could be nonchalantly tagged as just such an offering, David Tibet's most recent live album transcends the bedraggled genre, coming off like its own heroic monster. Nobody would deny that David Tibet's a busy guy. Between his Durtro label, Ghost Story Press, and numerous recording projects and collaborations, it's a wonder the English renaissance man's able to release any new material by his own meatandpotatoes act. Though Current 93 is scheduled to play a string of shows in Toronto this June with Six Organs of Admittance, the crew's stateside gigs are extremely rare. In fact, even some of C93's most ardent followers have only caught glimpses of their reclusive icon in grainy black and white photos or web glossies. In this sense, a Current 93 live album makes more sense than a similar project by the endlessly touring Dave Matthews. Another plus is that Tibet's songs exist nicely in larger spaces: the piano stretches its legs, the bass grumbles, the cello scurries underfoot, the violin mewls. Recorded pristinely at the Queen Elizabeth Hall in London on October 9th, 2003, during a sharedheadlining gig with Cosey Fanni Tutti and Chris Carter (both exThrobbing Gristle), the set includes 16 tracks covering much of C93's recorded history from the early years to his most recent opus, Hypnagogue. The setlist moves comfortably between aesthetic eras in Tibet's oeuvre: \"The Death of the Corn\" from 1990's Horse makes an appearance, as do \"Whilst the Night Rejoices Profound and Still\" and \"The Signs in the Stars\" from 1998's Soft Black Stars, and 1994's \"All This World Makes Great Blood\" from Of Ruine or Some Blazing Starre. While not every track beguiles, the most interesting compositions receive an extra layer of flesh. The opener, \"Halo\", swivels on the same scratchy loop as 1995's lengthier \"Where the Long Shadows Fall\". Tibet gently intones his Theinmostlight trilogy's continual question (\"Why can't we all just walk away?\") as strings, tunings and tentative swells gradually come to the fore. As the set continues, 1992's \"Mary Waits in Silence\" picks up hypnotic Gregorian background chants and the stutterstep of flanged soloing guitar; \"A Silence Song\", a perennial favorite also from Thunder Perfect Mind, is as dainty as ever but the melancholic instrumentation rises and falls with Tibet's voice more clearly than on the album (the pianos are especially stirring); \"So: This Empire Is Nothing\" sprouts a singing saw that takes flight as an extended breakdown buttressed by ecstatic applause. A slightly compacted \"Sleep Has His House\", prefaced with Tibet's whisper that \"this is in memory of my father,\" receives a less droning piano/cello/violin makeover. I ultimately prefer the original, lengthier version, but hearing the track receive the explosive pop treatment is an interesting sideswipe. The proceedings trail off with \"Locust\" from 1987's Imperium. It's the first time Tibet performs \"Locust\" live, and he opts to give it the royal apocalyptic treatment: deranged voices, walls of white noise, squeaks, howls, squawks, metal bass, industrial sprouts, choirs of devils, crazed strings, noise guitar, and subaltern gnarls drift around Tibet's anguished libretto: \"What joy we had/ In the locust summers/ What fires we lit/ In the locust years.\" C93 has always been as much about the music as Tibet's largerthanlife personality and obsessions. In a live setting, he chews the scenery and spits it out in a handful of colors (mostly rippled with red); and this here, Tibet's masterstroke, is frantic Glassian New Music performed by hellhounds. Pulling a wonderful rabbit out of his hat, the set concludes with a child, Finn Sands, telling the audience that \"God Is Love\" and imploring them to \"watch and pray.\" This placement immediately after the most intense of songs transforms the boy's sweet British voice into an ominous warning: Who knows what the Four Horsemen will look like, so watch your back and lock the doors. As should be expected, Halo doesn't possess the same dense narrative arc as Current 93's strongest studio efforts, and newcomers should search out the tried and true classics like Thunder Perfect Mind or All the Pretty Little Horses before jumping into this sort of collection. For seasoned veterans, though, it's a thrill to hear the band's often hermetic sounds bloom before an audience of adoring fans. I wish I could see all the faces and lighters, because even just listening to the acolytes whoop it up after the foreign lands of \"Fields of Rape\" is honesttogod spineshivering rock 'n' roll fun. "}