{"label":" Upper Class","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1738/homepage_large.e975a61e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Cansecos","title":"The Cansecos","text":" Could it be possible that popular music's capacity for innovation and expansion is actually infinite? Infinite is pretty big, I know, but every time I think things have turned into a cul de sac and it's all just regurgitation, someone springs something fresh on me and suddenly I can see the roads stretching in every direction again, just waiting to be traveled. Given the constant proliferation of new technologies and the shear breadth of possible sounds and combinations, both natural and electronic, it stands to reason that there will always be something that hasn't been tried. There may not be another sea change in music the way there was in the late 60s (although one could argue that hiphop is as revolutionary), but from where I stand, several decades after rock's initial evolutionary explosion, I can't possibly see it stagnating completely. The more music I listen to, the more likely this possibility seems, and as long as there are albums like The Cansecos' selftitled debut out there waiting to be heard, I'm not changing my theory a bit. I don't know what's caused this sudden run of creativity in Toronto, but ingenuity seems to run in the blood of the musicians there, from collectives like Broken Social Scene and Do Make Say Think to loners like Manitoba and The Russian Futurists. The Cansecos fit somewhere in between all that stuff; the work of sometime filmmaker Bill Halliday (no relation to the Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Roy) and Upper Class label head Gareth Jones (not the guy who produced Clinic's Internal Wrangler) is decidedly rooted in solid, straightforward melody, and branches from those roots into strange and distinctive sonic territory, a whirring mix of the obsolete and the absolutely modern. The album opens with the excellent mission statement \"Are You Lonesome Tonight?\" with offhanded, doubletracked vocals over acoustic guitar and spare drum programming. The beats ramp up to the chorus, building to a dancefloor frenzy and then back down for the next verse. Those relaxed, even vocals are the core of every song, and though Jones and Halliday aren't going to share poet laureate honors for Ontario any time soon, they spin some interesting verses, such as Jones' \"Business hopes religion chokes the life out of religious folks/ So we all can safely consume/ And make those dollars and cents,\" from \"In Bloom\", a song awash in harp samples and swishing ambience. The watery echo and softhued keyboard of \"This Girl and This Boy\" create a Spector epic in miniature, a Wall of Sound that's more returntothewomb than wrecking crew, but nonetheless overwhelming. There are plenty of BBC Radiophonic Workshop synths winding and warbling their way through the textures The Cansecos create \"This Small Disaster\" even borders on microtonalism with its buzzing, wavering patches and much of what the duo does parallels the work of Dan Snaith's Manitoba in terms of dynamics and sonics, respectively. This album was recorded between 2000 and 2002, and as such it's difficult to pinpoint exactly what they were taking in; regardless, they've made such a complete and accessible whole out of it that they can call the sound their own. With luck, it'll take less than two whole years for The Cansecos to dream up a followup to this incredibly promising debut, but even if it does, this album pushes just a little further in pop's great infinite, and definitely deserves to be heard. "}