{"label":" AI","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1745/homepage_large.0ffdec10.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Claro Intelecto","title":"Neurofibrio","text":" Hearing certain electro records on a warm evening can make you want to rent a convertible and drive a stretch of highway that runs along the ocean. Call it the Jan Hammer Miami Vice effect: stiff beats, Star Wars laser sounds, simple three and fournote melodies so unyielding in their repetition you can close your eyes and see the green lights moving left to right along the sequencer put these ingredients together in the right way and you have a seriously enjoyable simple pleasure. Purely electronic music found early popular acceptance in electro, and sometimes the genre seems like the form most perfectly suited to the intuitive life of the machine. On his debut fulllength, Neurofibrio, Manchester's Mark Stewart (who releases music as Claro Intelecto) does electro right. Electro is not all he's doing here the strong influence of Detroit techno is detectable as well, and he occasionally dips his toes into a more abstract ambient pool but the electro spirit is at the core of every musical gesture. Though Stewart is a fan of 80s electropop, no track on Neurofibrio suggests that it could be a proper song if fleshed out with the right vocalist. These songs work strictly by addition and subtraction; rather than developing, they snap in and out of place like joints. The cool \"Percentages\" can be reduced to a few squelchy bass notes put together in a catchy way, a keyboard stab that sounds like a funk guitar sample, the kind of vintage Roland keyboard Jan Jelinek loves to sample, and a barelythere drum machine pattern. They come and they go, but the piece never dulls over more than six minutes because each individual sound is so well rendered. \"Mono\", with its halfclap snare hit and impossibly funky circular bassline is like Grandmaster Flash's \"Scorpio\" with the Furious Five laying out. \"Nobody\" and \"Contact\" add a 4/4 pulse and come closer to classic techno, upping the alienation and moving away from the street party vibe. Though heavy on upbeat rhythmic cuts, a few impressionist tracks round out the record and make Neurofibrio even more compelling as a collection. \"Baudrillards Supper\" and \"You Not Me\", for example, are stark, quiet tracks built from stark piano melodies that use glitchy percussion for contrast. Yes, the record is a bit retro and we've definitely heard these sounds before, but electro is not a genre that demands constant innovation. Nervous futureshock jitter and melancholy synth washes never go out of style. This is the sound of the city from back when Blade Runner seemed like prophecy, but Claro Intelecto's take is patient and ultimately lets in a bit of light. "}