{"label":" Winterlander","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1746/homepage_large.cd27d0b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Charlemagne","title":"Charlemagne","text":" I don't care what you think of Charlemagne's music; you have to dig the handlebar moustache. It's small on your screen, perhaps difficult to see in that tiny representation of the sepiatone album cover photo, but Charlemagne's sole operator, one Carl Johns, sports, in addition to antlers, a perfect handlebar, waxed up into sinister hooks flanking his nose and conferring order upon his bedhead. So, congratulations, Charlemagne, your record is guaranteed a solid rating of 1.0, regardless of its content. Thankfully, there's enough quality content encoded on the disc behind the moustache and its constituent face to render a rating that low unfathomable. Rather, Charlemagne's debut (Johns also has three albums out with his leftfield country project NoahJohn Charlemagne appears to be his pop outlet) is a fine onemanband effort bursting at the seams with glowing harmonies and spry pop that suggests a more caffeinated Kingsbury Manx. Johns' impressive texture of subtle, chiming synth, acoustic guitar and downplayed drums reaches apotheosis on \"Holland Daisy\", opening with a whistled melody and proceeding through a catchy verse to a prechorus that actually outdoes the chorus itself with its serpentine melodic twists. \"How Could He?\" is nearly as good, buoyed by a brilliantly simple bassline and a modest guitar solo, the vocals billowing in big, pillowy clouds of honeyed harmony. Though the record never quite reaches the high of these two songs again, the rest of the album is solid nonetheless: Slower numbers like \"Autumn Evenings\" and the watery epic \"Portrait with No Shortage of History\" the latter a poem by Tenaya Darlington set to music by Johns unveil expertly crafted melodies over spare backing featuring puttering programmed percussion, electric piano and droning organs. Johns uses a limited tonal palette to achieve numerous effects over the course of the album, blanketing \"Prisoner Of...\" in a shroud of melancholy with the same ingredients that make \"How Could He?\" and \"Dawn Upon\" unmitigated blasts of sunshine. Of course, that limited tonal palette also means that the album as a whole is somewhat monochromatic, which is really the chief failing of Charlemagne. With all those toogeneticallyperfect Carolingian harmonies slathered all over everything, it's easy for things to blur a bit, no matter how airtight the melodies are. Still, Johns has put together an engaging record all by his lonesome, which isn't terribly common in the realm of singer/songwriters. "}