{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1751/homepage_large.bb559bef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"!!!","title":"Me and Giuliani Down by the School Yard (A True Story) EP","text":" Where Were You in '77? was one of the first Sex Pistols bootlegs available in America. Released in 1985, it took its name from an implied accusation that dominated the postpunk landscape in the UK. Confronted with upstart poseurs in leather and Mohawks, all pumping their fists to the subpar heavy metal of yob bands like The Exploited, the people who made punk happen saw their dreams debased by a mindless horde of aggro fashion victims. Aghast, they demanded credentials. Three decades later, chic New Yorkers might be asking, \"Where were you in '99?\" As Prince promised, there was much to celebrate in a year that saw a beatdriven sound coalesce around New York City. A handful of bands following in the true footsteps of punk rock reimagined the studious, but fey, elitism of postpunk and the New Romantics, who'd retreated from the increasingly insecure, violent world that became hardcore, taking their snottily smart fashion, drugs and dancing with them. By 1999, underground acts had already figured out where to go once postrock exhausted itself and nümetal made screamo rage passé. DFA Records was about to take shape, and their soontobe first signatures, The Rapture, had just moved to New York; beneath their rough edges lay the echoes of a future funk that now sees them lauded as the second coming. From the ashes of a few west coast guitar bands rose Out Hud and !!!, who were dancing up storms in Sacramento, already releasing records on the prescient GSL imprint (these groups still share a few members, which can be expected as !!! incorporates eight musicians from the NoCal scene). When their 2000 tour blazed crosscountry, chic newcomers rejoiced at the absurd obscurity of their name, eagerly informing their friends: \"It's pronounced 'Chik Chik Chik' I know the singer.\" Occasionally, they were countercooled with, \"Well, I was at the Ballroom last week and I know for a fact they're called Pow Pow Pow.\" !!!'s selftitled CD [GSL; 2001] was the toast of the underground, \"A funky Stone Roses!\"; they were so wellregarded, in fact, that Pitchfork trashed them. It seems Insound.com may have been the website to listen to as the millenium turned: their precious inhouse band Ida had already started covering Prince and the Bee Gees the year before. It was the only place you could buy !!!'s record online (as well as that first Yeah Yeah Yeahs EP). People were loosening up; moping indie rock was boring them. Cutloose new nowave was on the rise. I saw !!! in Boston that year, though I'm sure singer Nic Offer's forgotten the lone, bespectacled idiot that danced with him during his obligatory crowd rush to oust the stiffs. I didn't do it to be cool, or to prove anything to myself or the audience: I did it to challenge his audacity. \"Okay, 'outrageous dance band,' the New Bad Things tried this shit two years ago prove it to me.\" Nic didn't flinch when I grabbed his hips and began dryhumping him. He was dead serious about shaking it in a room where few if any people knew who he was. From the stage, he did a great Ian Brown impression as !!!'s division of drummers, guitarists and horn players jammed intently, the perfect balance between filthy hippies and detached session players. If it weren't for Nic's fantastic stage presence, they'd have been another boring funk band A Certain Ratio circa 1984 but his gusto put the band squarely in the background, isolating them as a selfamused house band for what should have been an allout dance party. Which is the logical conclusion !!! are following on tour this year, openly calling their shows \"dance parties.\" But as much their music is driven by Chic disco beats, the melodies they lay on top are as dark as any in rock's past. Where New Order posited a gloomy pop synthesis of Italian disco and Kraftwerk, !!! drape funkier rhythms in a slate grey cloud, calling back to the jagged, distracted tempojams of New York legends Liquid Liquid and, more overtly, the Bush Tetras. It's trackstuffing that sets !!! apart from a growing legion of dogshit fashion victims like Dance Disaster Movement and Hint Hint. The sonic depth and compositional scope of \"Me and Giuliani Down by the School Yard\" skirts tribute, unleashing dozens of ideas over ten straight minutes of collaborative invention. This is what club remix tracks always aspired to: a seemingly unending barrage of shifts in style and mood grounded by an unwavering rhythm section. At first I expected Offer to quip, \"If you wanna be rich/ You got to be a bitch,\" paying homage to Laid Back's cheesy bluedisco track \"White Horse\", but it's a misdirection, a twominute intro of mounting cowbells and horns that blossom into ecstasy. The 16thbeat shuffle that dominates \"Giuliani\" arrives in a tidal wave of guitar and horns that give way to a gorgeous plate of trademark Martin Hannett reverb. Wait, what the fuck did he just say \"the music takes over\"? Yeah. The one cautionary aspect of !!! is Nic Offer's insipid lyrics, which, when reaching for anything more than meaningless posicore chants, are largely a wasted effort (though I'll give him \"a message to you, Rudy\"). It's a much more powerful experience seeing eight people play this sort of thing in concert watching them shift gears than it is listening to what could be a carefully pruned studio outing. Offer's jabs certainly come closer to the mark when he's shaking them in your face. There's hope, though, in the \"doodoodoo doo doo dooooo\" last half of this opus, which you can dance to on wax (the final minute is a priceless clapalong tom march a la Toni Basil's \"Mickey\"). The second tenminute track on this EP is, unfortunately, a remix. While the \"Sunracapellectrohshit\" mix of \"Intensify\" (from their debut) is a commercial improvement over the distorted lofi original, it lacks all the discordant, dangerous melodies that made the song such a menacing live treat. In its place: flaccid Daft Punk loops and a spoken word approach revoltingly reminiscent of Fischerspooner. The stumbling hyperactivity of the original's \"Canyoufeelitintensify\" is gone, as is the maniac gospel breakdown that made the song truly amazing in concert. The glitch cuts and ProTools stuttering do nothing for me, though the insistent sample of \"Can you feel it intensify!\" as a Jane FondacumNitzer Ebb base (join in the chant!) secures this relative disappointment a place on the dancefloor. !!! haven't yet ascended to the ranks of a liveaction M/A/R/R/S, but Me and Giuliani Down by the School Yard (A True Story) makes their intentions clear in comparison to their less frenetic, drawnout tracks of old. Leading with a tenminute single this outrageously creative, informed and exciting, !!! have a lot to prove on their coming fulllength.  "}