{"label":" Paper Bag","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1753/homepage_large.219d1e83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Controller.Controller","title":"History EP","text":" A friend of mine once argued to me that the only two popular musical acts of the 20th century who will be remembered in 500 years are Bob Dylan and The Beatles. At the time, I was pretty sure this was bullshit, and today, I'm absolutely positive that it's bullshit. Maybe it's just the 40reissuesaweek release schedule of the moment that has me confident that at least a healthy crosssection of the 20th century's musical output will be remembered in the 26th century, provided we're still around then, but I also think the current state of technology mandates that much of it will survive. We're approaching a point even now where the storage media for art are nearly invisible, and with that kind of capacity for information, there's no reason some kids in the very distant future shouldn't be able to start a band that some future critic will label a \"cross between Sonny Sharrock, Pere Ubu and Wyld Stallions.\" Of course, it's hard to imagine how anything will sound original in the 26th century, given the fact that it's hard enough these days to escape the dense history of pop music short of growing up in Antarctica and doing all of your writing and recording in a corrugated shed on the Ross Ice Shelf. Torontobased Controller.Controller, however, do manage to bear the weight of a good many influences in their sound, most of which can be pinned to the years 19771983. And if you're sick of hearing about new music that owes a debt to the postpunk era, hear me out for a couple of 'graphs, because Controller.Controller may fit conveniently in the dancepunk mold, but there's a whole lot more to them than just danceminded rhythm. For one thing, they have Nirmala Basnayake, who spices her vocals with pinches of Debbie Harry and David Byrne while delivering some truly excellent melodies. She's backed in this endeavor by four gentlemen who know how to ride and manipulate a groove for maximum effect. Drummer Jeff Scheven is a human metronome, throwing down whipcrack pulse beats that always revolve around a fouronthefloor center for his bandmates to dress up with all manner of rhythmic and melodic flourishes. Guitarists Colwyn LlewellynThomas and Scott Kaija fence with lasertones leads, distort for vicious stuttering breaks and mine that delicious Nile Rodgers pocket for the sake of the dancefloor, while bassist Ronnie Morris locks in with Scheven with clean, melodic lines. The opening title track states the band's intentions to move you in every way possible with copious hihat, scratchy, cleantoned guitar chords and Basnayake's Byrneish sing/speak admonitions, \"You need to make corrections/ You need to pay attention.\" And that's just one of the nearly constant highlights as the band grooves through a halfhour of sharply honed postdisco, shuddering through the frenetic and dramatic chord changes and buildups of \"Silent Seven\", and slipping on the viscous rhythms of \"Disco Blackout\". Controller.Controller have pulled together a deftly funky debut, as full of thoughtful songcraft as pure kinetic energy. And that's really what separates History from the dancerock pack it's not just something to sweat to, it's something to sing along to, and something to come back to. "}