{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1755/homepage_large.cbbf5d90.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Catherine Lewis","artist":"Tom Carter","title":"Monument","text":" A few days before a solo show in 2001, Charalambides' Tom Carter recorded an improvised session on his lap steel guitar. The recordings were released in a very limited run only 55 CDR copies were sold on Charalambides' own Wholly Other label. This twotrack, 49minute record is neither as eerie nor as elaborate as most of his band's work; rather, it's a test of endurance and restraint as Carter repeats and tweaks his simple sonic notions, sometimes letting minutes go by with barely a discernable sound. The twominute \"Monument 1 (Memorial)\" opens the album so faintly that in order to hear any of Carter's light rumblings, I had to pump the volume up to 11, creating so much hiss and distortion that it was nearly impossible to tell where the limitations of my speakers left off and Carter's guitartweaking dropped in. However, that subtle guitar scratching is just a warmup act for what follows. \"Monument 2\" clocks in at 47 minutes, making it as much of an staminastretcher to listen to in one sitting as it surely was for Carter to record. The piece opens quietly, shimmering and wriggling out of Carter's fingertips as he lightly plucks a few notes. These sounds build on themselves, seeming to stay within a range of just a few notes as Carter varies the duration and volume of each pulse, focusing more on his brushstrokes and textures than on changing colors. He gradually incorporates more sounds and effects: the low, swooping moans at 12 minutes, the almost frantic shrillness at 16 minutes, and the climaxing flirtation between the two a few minutes later. This is where many would call it quits. Instead, Carter continues, backtracking almost to the beginning as his guitar's ringing tonalities slowly pulse and echo and fade away only to be picked up by the next slightly expanded repetition and carried just a little further, like waves slowly covering more ground as the tide comes back in. This continues for a rambling 10 minutes, until Carter finally pushes the volume up a notch for a momentary crest, then quickly sinks back down again. The tide gradually begins to ebb away with one last wail at 40:00 that pulses and resonates for several minutes as a few undercurrents fight their way to the surface, finally reaching some sort of harmony as the song shimmers into the distance as quietly as it began. It's these final few minutes that do seem interminable; the focus and drive of the piece's first half is gone and, like hitting the wall at a marathon's 22nd mile, all you want is for it all to end. Although there are certainly moments where Carter pauses long enough to imply a new thought or to call to question his continued focus this is just one track, one on which he somehow ends roughly where he had begun almost an hour earlier. Carter glares at a few simple sounds, stretching and pulling at them to conjure flickering images, transcending his selfimposed constraints through hallucination. This solo outing certainly won't have a widespread appeal (even among Charalambides fans) but Carter's restraint is, if nothing else, a marvel. For those willing to attempt to wade through Monument, it's a journey preferably taken with headphones on a dark night, with someone to pull you out if you slip too deeply inside its lulling trance. "}