{"label":" Basement","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1758/homepage_large.a2b32d94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Crown City Rockers","title":"Earthtones","text":" Despite electroclash and The Darkness, some musical trends are actually worth perpetuating. Take live hiphop, for example. Though no group has stepped into mainstream success like The Roots, several smaller acts across the country S.F.'s Variable Unit, the Twin Cities' Heiruspecs, the Breakestra out of L.A. have actually brought new elements to the form and elevated its standards. But they're the exception: Truth is, most rhythm sections lack the heavyweight punch to contend with an 808's bionic beats, and jammy arrangements can give too much slack to hiphop's streamlined urgency. Without inspired songcraft and a novel approach, even the best MC will get swept out to a sea of watereddown funk. With their second LP, Oakland's Crown City Rockers bring a surprisingly fresh, wellrounded sound that reiterates just how good live hiphop can be when done right. Without copping a single note, they give a nod to The Roots' Do You Want More?!!!??! days, easily tempering organic, jazzy dynamics with concrete beats and streetwise production. Rather than taking the classic Illadelph bebop approach, Earthtones looks to the mid70s souljazz of Donald Byrd and Lonnie Liston Smith for inspiration. Most prominent are the textured keyboards of Kat Ouano, applied equally with ballsy aggression for a banging club feel (\"Fortitude\") and deft understatement for smoother meditations (\"Fate\", \"No Sense\"). By balancing keys, bass, drums, and dense, MPCgenerated breaks, producers Headnotic and Woodstock arrive at a flawless balance of instrumental spontaneity and programmed precision. But the real star here is MC Rashaan Ahmad. In the few years that Crown City Rockers have existed, they've undergone a name change, lost a key member, and released an underdeveloped debut album. Ahmad has clearly evolved with the band, working through adversity, sharpening his skills, and shaping his onthemike persona. With Earthtones he emerges as one of the West Coast's premiere MCs, his flow effortless and vocabulary expansive. He brings an everyman context to his rhymes, making the mundane dramatic with a subtle righteousness and aroundtheway likability. He comes downright heroic on \"Another Day\", the album's first single, rapping, \"Rhyme writing, pressure's on/ I wanna move to the desert, play guitar songs/ Wanna move away from the city, crime and fear/ But I know the world needs me here.\" \"Heat\" lives up to its name, Ahmad's scathing delivery hammering over a heavy breakbeat workout and a flurry of horns and Superflystyle strings. On an album full of wellconsidered positivity, only the haterrific \"Simple\", stands out as a misstep its sultry vocal sample and languid SoCat beat aren't quite up to the task of salvaging its bratty content. That, however, is just carping there isn't much to not like here. With this one exception, the album stays on track start to finish, peppering Ahmad's verbal calisthenics with occasional instrumental workouts that make for an absorbing ebb and flow. Combining ingredients as natural as they are effective, Earthtones is a great example of hard work made to look easy. "}