{"label":" Swami","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1761/homepage_large.e72923ec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Crime","title":"San Francisco's STILL Doomed","text":" In 1975, Frankie Fix and Johnny Strike played together in a glam band called Space Invaders. When bassist Ron \"The Ripper\" Greco and drummer Ricky Tractor (who went on to play in Flipper, and was replaced by the drummer for most of this reissue, Hank Rank) joined up, they abandoned glam in favor of punk and became Crime. But San Francisco's selfproclaimed \"first and only rock 'n' roll band\" was too punk for punk: They considered it a sanitized and mediasanctioned description unsuited to their anarchic music. Given such a defiant creed, one would imagine said music to be dauntingly strange, but surprisingly, San Francisco's STILL Doomed sounds downright traditional compared to many of Crime's peers. Essentially, it's sneering, overdriven, classic rock 'n' roll and I'm talking classic classic; Little Richard, Jerry Lee Lewis, rollicking, bassheavy 1950s classic, inflected with R&B; and rockabilly, with a firsthand memory of the blues from which it came. Even buried under sheets of ambient noise and abrasive distortion, it's immediately recognizable as rock 'n' roll. Imagine what The Animals would have sounded like if they were literally on fire, howling in pain. What's remarkable about Crime, then, is their ineffable ferocity, which must have been doubly outrageous emanating from four antipunks in greasernoir and S.F.P.D. uniforms. It's said that Crime was the first punk band on the West Coast to release their own single \"Hot Wire My Heart\" (which Sonic Youth would cover on Sister) b/w \"Baby, You're So Repulsive\", in 1976. This was followed by 1977 single \"Frustration\", b/w \"Murder by Guitar\", and an infamous performance for the inmates of San Quentin, which is starting to sound like an okay place I mean, I've never gotten to see Johnny Cash or Crime in concert, and I'm a (mostly) lawabiding citizen.  Crime disbanded in 1981, after their third single (not included on this collection) earned the approval of critics, but alienated fans with its fashionable newwave tendencies. They left behind a lot of unreleased material and legends of flagrantly selfdefeating behavior, from canceling a gig with The Damned because they refused to open, to promoting a show at a bisexual club with a Hitler poster that prompted the club's owner to pay Crime $100 to not play, to telling Seymour Stein of Sire Records that The Ramones were \"hippies that should cut their hair.\"  Swami has remastered and reissued Solar Lodge's 1990 release San Francisco's Doomed, which was a CD document of two late70s rehearsal sessions. Swami's version is essentially identical, except for additional versions of \"Hot Wire My Heart\" and \"Baby, You're So Repulsive\" from the band's original 1976 incarnation. It marks the closest we'll ever come to a proper Crime album, and, at least until Revenant Records' plan for a box set and DVD comes to fruition, the most faithful document of a band heretofore remembered through murky bootlegs and a credit in Sonic Youth's liner notes. San Francisco's STILL Doomed is a torturous, detuned and feedbacklaced stomp through rock 'n' roll standards. While many punk bands got by on weirdness, employing maneuvers that were a metaphorconjuring wet dream for critics, Crime relied less on innovation than on furious, strident rhythms. From the demented boogie and blazing leads of \"Frustration\", to the droning, halting guitars and mobile bass melody of \"Crime Wave\", to the plodding dissonance of \"Murder by Guitar\", the 1978 session is an exercise in strenuous distortion, damaged riffage and disintegrating classic rock. The 1979 session, meanwhile, evinces a greater emphasis on rockabilly (including a song called \"Rockabilly Drugstore\", natch), but doesn't hint at the newwave mishaps that would tarnish Crime's last days. The new versions of \"Hot Wire My Heart\" and \"Baby, You're So Repulsive\" are a bit rawer, but really aren't stylistically different from the subsequent sessions, and demonstrate that Crime was most effective when, instead of trying to fit in or react against, they defiantly locked on to primal rock archetypes and rode them hard into infinity.  "}