{"label":" DeSoto","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1765/homepage_large.e65f2570.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Channels","title":"Open EP","text":" Ubiquitous producer J. Robbins first made his mark in the early 80s, as the bassist for D.C. punks Government Issue, and then as the frontman for seminal postpunks Jawbox. After an EP and two LPs of powerful \"protoemo,\" as DeSoto dubbed it, Jawbox left Dischord. Amid a minor flurry of puritanical handwringing during the indie boom of the early 90s, they signed to Atlantic Records to release their finest album, For Your Own Special Sweetheart, and a glossier, selftitled swan song, before disbanding in 1997. When Jawbox folded, Robbins reunited with Government Issue drummer Peter Moffett and Jawbox guitarist Bill Barbot to form Burning Airlines, whose Mission: Control! and Identikit, sanded the rough edges from his former band's songwriting, and attempted more traditional lyrical and musical structures. And now there's Channels, consisting of Robbins on vocals and guitar, his wife Janet Morgan on vocals and bass, and drummer Darren Zentek. A logical progression from Identikit's blend of jagged pop and brawny rock, their debut EP, Open, posits itself as the culmination of Burning Airlines' aesthetic: big hooks, bellclear vocals, a smoldering and serrated pop sensibility (think Jawbox's \"Iodine\" or Burning Airlines \"The Surgeon's House\"), and Robbins' most discernible and politically charged lyrics to date. The first track, \"Disconnection Day\", audaciously imagines 9/11 as a future holiday that commemorates the death of critical thinking. It begins with a wafting arpeggio and Robbins' distorted, submerged singing, before the vocals burst into the foreground and the guitars blossom like fireworks over the irregular peaks of Zentek's drumming. Robbins' voice has accrued polish and nuance over the years, and his trademarked \"aaaayyys\" soar majestically over the mix.  The disjointed anthem \"Storytime (In the Street of Spies)\" has an aggressively circuitous guitar line that collapses into more spare and effective breakdowns, where the lyrical turn \"surveyor for new maps of hell\" shines through, representing Robbins' more forthright (at least, forthright for the author of enigmas like \"FF=66\") mode of expression. The driving, staccato \"Chivaree\" continues the murderbywordplay dogmatic attack, with the opening lyric, \"Kill all the copyrights and loosen my tongue,\" a cunning call for artistic freedom. However, a reworking of John Cale's \"Fear\" is the EP's most striking song. Swirling acoustic guitar amasses toward a chorus that just begins to erupt before stopping short and beginning the upward trek anew. Janet Morgan's dulcet vocals make their first appearance on this duet, and are ably ballasted by Robbins' resonant baritone. Morgan also closes the EP with \"Win Instantly\", a trebly, chiming lullaby on which her vocals are pleasant but benign one wishes for a harmony to enliven them, but nevertheless, their juxtaposition with the tortured dissonance of the chorus works passably well. Robbins has shed Jawbox's raw power and abstruse tendencies, and reinvented his writing in a manner befitting these more intelligible songs. I'm not going to pretend that I like Open as much as For Your Own Special Sweetheart, but there are few albums I do like that much. Jawbox is now distant enough that Robbins' records must be judged on how well they stand upon their own feet. Channels squarely does. "}