{"label":" North East Indie","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1775/homepage_large.7f6f5d19.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Climax Golden Twins","title":"Highly Bred and Sweetly Tempered","text":" Stay on the black keys and you can't go wrong. That's the first lesson curious hands learn at the piano. Your fingers can wander where they please on the ebony and the pentatonic scales will agree it's the place to go. And forget about tonal gravity, because the notes won't lead you to any resolution you can play these weightless notes for hours. Listening to hours of it, though, is another story and it gets old fast, which I guess is why the Climax Golden Twins cut off their own sticktotheblackkeys moment barely two minutes into their latest album. \"Upright\" is the prettily pentatonic track in question, and though it's the most basic kind of amateur, pedaldown piano noodling, it's still strangely poignant. Set against slowly arcing scrapeydroney bits (stickheads rubbing on cymbals and the like), it takes on a great deal more power, and the minimal texturesongs that surround it deny it a chance to linger for too long.Highly Bred and Sweetly Tempered, the band's fifth album, is baked from simple, sparingly implemented ingredients sometimes spiked with challenging timbres and, on occasion, indebted to the ramshackle sound of ancient acoustic blues. That scraped, crackly, hazy feel is appropriate for a band whose website sells cassettes recorded from dusty 78s on their handcranked 1924 Victrola and also made a name for themselves in sound installations and soundtracks. Those same 78s field recordings, audio letters to loved ones and heirs, dramatic readings and the like pop up on several of these songs, speaking out of the ether like wandering souls. The Climax Golden Twins practice a great deal of secrecy when it comes to their identities, but this stance has a logic related to their music, as its active ambient soundscapes surrender any focus on the musicians' personalities in favor of mood and nuanced sound. Guitars don't so much enter as happen, while the drumming is all loose brushwork, breathing cymbal and understated grace. \"I Had a Cousin, very old, he believed every word in the Bible. Well, I never did,\" says the lady on the 78 as \"Billy McGee McGaw\" slides in gracefully from the side, stuffed full of airy oscillations, papery snare, and guitar. \"For Adeline (Guitar Trio)\" is the late highlight, opening with the nearly impenetrable hiss and scratch that coats a oncefresh recording of a man singing over wispy, dead piano but pupating into a stark, organic guitar conversation that counts the fret noise as much a part of the music as the notes themselves. If there's a misstep here, it's \"Solid Gold Microphone\", which sticks out of the middle of the record like a sore thumb, both as the only vocal track and as the only thing that's terrible the minimal guitar and phlegmy, tentative vocals belonged on the cutting room floor instead of the middle of the record. But most of the album succeeds in spinning a web of flaxen beauty that swallows your thoughts in its texture and caresses even in its harshest moments. It's not a revelation, but it is a very pleasing album. "}