{"label":" Record Label, 2000","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1778/homepage_large.69946f5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Chin Up Chin Up","title":"Chin Up Chin Up EP","text":" This isn't the followup to Chin Up Chin Up's promising debut, but a reprint of their first EP with the addition of two remixes, an acoustic version of \"Falcons and Vulcans\", and a video. Hearing it now, it obviously sounds like a first step, but it reaffirms what many heard on We Should Have Never Lived Like We Were Skyscrapers: a poppy spin on a familiar sound, a singer still finding his voice, and a band with a great deal of potential. The original version of \"Collide the Tide\" opens the EP (it was rerecorded for their fulllength), and while the handmuted guitar scratches and funk rhythms wedged between jangly choruses weren't exactly revelatory on either version, the chords pull a surprisingly tender switch beneath Jeremy Bolan's hushed vocals, and this version's rhythm flows a little more naturally, like postrock with a steady pop pulse underneath instead of just playing baitandswitch with genre. The EP doesn't have half of the varied instrumentation of their following fulllength, so tracks like \"Fuck You, Elton John\" and \"For All the Tanning Salons in Texas\" fall a bit flat. \"Elton John\" could have been more successful if its climax didn't depend on Bolan's ability to belt out his vocals, and he strains when outside of the hoarse, nearwhispered style he relies on. The band are still toying with ideas here, and \"Tanning Salons\" gets by on galloping guitar lines that would suffice for an instrumental, but sound gray and flat in the context of a pop song. However, there is some variation here. \"The Soccer Mom Gets Her Fix\" winds 80s keyboards around its unpredictable rhythms. \"I'm Not Asking for a Tennis Bracelet\" uses a theremin as its anchoring melody (played by fellow Chicagoan Devin Davis), and grows progressively calmer over the many permutations of winding guitar notes and layered vocals. \"Pillage the Village\" is an average performance that nonetheless builds nicely, and the minimal onenote keyboards hint at the Cure influence that was expanded upon on We Should Have Never Lived... The remix of \"We Should Have Never Lived Like We Were Skyscrapers\" is reverent to the original, borrowing all the right segments and stretching the wistful emotions at the heart of the track. Unfortunately, the new beat is average and tepid IDM fare so close, and yet so far. The remix of \"The Architect has a Gun\" by Ronald Simmons/Gene McDonald (aka Tim Kinsella) leans too far in the other direction, taking the originals's elated vocal performance and twisting it into low, creepy choirs and buzzing hives, but it's neither a very daring nor memorable sound. \"Falconz and Vulcanz\", however, translates surprisingly well in an acoustic setting, revealing richly melodic guitar work. Despite their ponderous song titles and instrumentation, Chin Up Chin Up were already reaching towards concise pop songs on their debut EP. The best songs here straddle the line between melodic indie and postrock, and if the band could use the merits of both, balance technical ability and instrumental tensionandrelease with sharp hooks, they'd have boundless potential for great future records. Listening to the varied arrangements and melodies of We Should Have Never Lived... after hearing this EP makes it sound all the more possible. I can't wait to hear what they do next. "}