{"label":" Carrot Top","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1781/homepage_large.5337b06c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Coctails","title":"Popcorn Box","text":" The Coctails were one of the more unusual musical packages of the past 20 years: four talented multiinstrumentalists from Kansas City John Upchurch, Barry Phipps, Mark Greenberg, and Archer Prewitt whose music didn't fit any category even when it veered close to one. They dressed in matching yellow tuxedos, designed and printed their own ultraretro concert posters, and wrapped their releases in packaging that looked alternately like something from the 50s Blue Note catalog or something from the coolest thrift store in the universe. The garish tuxes eventually became more stylish suits and the band uprooted for Chicago, where they established themselves as regulars at the legendary Lounge Ax venue (R.I.P.) and convinced the old Wax Trax! record store (R.I.P.) to let them erect threefoottall effigies of themselves in the front display window to promote their first album. (Those same papier mache figures now overlook the bar at Empty Bottle.) From their loft space, they ran two record labels HiBall for their vinyl releases, Carrot Top for their CDs and recorded on old analog equipment with a menagerie of instruments that would make any instrument fetishist plotz. They were equally comfortable playing weddings or opening for Shellac or the Skatalites among the many great concert posters included in the liners of Popcorn Box Box, their new threedisc roundup of rarities, unreleased material, and select album cuts, is one that shows them opening for some band named Corndolly, with Liz Phair third on the bill. What's really remarkable about the Coctails, as this set amply demonstrates, is that in a decade when facelessness and a supposed lack of affect ruled the underground, and anonymous postrock collectives lumbered their way to shining reviews, they made their faces into Beatlesque icons, wore their personalities on their sleeves, embraced comic book art and toys as promotional devices, and exuded humor, unfettered creativity, and high spirits. People try to point to the Coctails as a precedent for the regrettable lounge revival, but as this compilation attests, they aren't so easily pigeonholed: These guys interpreted Sun Ra, took the occasional turn into garage mayhem, recorded a superb album of alternately weird and elegiac jazz (Long Sound), cut holiday and children's records, covered Raymond Scott's cartoon scores, and set an excerpt of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot to music. Popcorn Box takes in most of this over the course of its threeplus hour runtime, cleaning out the vaults of worthy unreleased stuff and filling in the blanks for fans who can't locate the limitedrun vinylonly EPs and numerous compilation tracks the Coctails released in their six years together. It also does a nice job of not duplicating the band's other set of rarities and album tracks, The Early HiBall Years, and offers just about anything you could reasonably ask of liner notes: archival photographs, album art, comic strips, concert posters, tracks notes with comments from the band, and a couple of heartfelt essays from Coctails associates and admirers. Though it does an excellent job of scraping together a huge amount of often difficult to find material, Popcorn Box is obviously not for everyone some people will find the abstract jazz that dominates disc three impossible to sit through, while others with be put off by the guileless goofing off of tracks like \"Donut Shoppe\" (\"Pirates run the donut shoppe.../ They used to have a pirate ship but it sank\") and \"AbbaDabbaDoDance\", a truly weird surf blues featuring lead vocals by a friend of the group that ends with the band collapsing in laughter. But lovers of pure sound will find plenty to embrace, from the interesting horn arrangements that populate the majority of the tracks to the heavenly bowed vibraphone of \"City Sun\" to the pretty jazz ballad \"Marseilles\" to the bastard klezmer touches that color much of disc two. Previously unreleased tracks like the crazy percussion, marimba, and sax (two of which Upchurch plays simultaneously) pileup \"Skeleton Bones\", or the great surfinflected pop song \"Hey Ho\", recorded at a \"beach party\" in the band's loft space, should be all the incentive fans of the band need to drop dime on this though there's plenty of added value for those who still need some convincing. The sixsong EP of freaky, richly detailed instrumentals they recorded for John Flansburgh's Hello Records Club has been out of print for ages and makes a welcome return in its original running order at the beginning of disc one. It's actually one of their most solid, cohesive releases, immediately illustrating that the band's utilization of theremin, marimba, banjo, musical saw, and bass clarinet was never a gimmick, but rather a means to an end. That end is some of the most memorably loopy music in recent memory, a good time that wasn't afraid to play with dissonance or experiment with free jazzbased open melodic structure. Newcomers (most likely curious fans of Prewitt's solo work or the Sea & Cake) probably shouldn't start by tackling this box, which seems aimed at established fans Peel or The Early HiBall Years are better starting points, or Long Sound for those more interested in the band's jazz leanings. For those who try it with open and eager ears, though, Popcorn Box is a rewarding look back at a truly singular band. "}