{"label":" Digitalis","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1784/homepage_large.51b743bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Christina Carter","title":"We've","text":" On the surface, Christina Carter's distinctive, freefloating improvisations seem as though they could only be born of solitude and introspection. So it's fascinating to note how frequently she successfully translates her seemingly individualized style into collaborative formats. In addition to her prolific career as a solo act and as member of the storied psychfolk combo Charalambides, Carter has also paired with Heather Leigh Murray as Scorces, recorded as a duo with Loren Mazzacane Connors, and made numerous guest appearances across a wide array of experimental releases. Her latest active collaboration has been with kindred spirit Andrew MacGregor, aka Gown, a partnership that noisily celebrates its first full harvest with the prolonged, disembodied howl of We've. Recorded live at KDVS radio in California, We've consists of a single 35minute performance, and likely stands as the spookiest, most unsettling work in Carter's catalog to date. (And I can tell you from experience, it's a particularly discomfiting listen if you've also got one ear cocked towards a baby monitor.) Hailing from the distant isles of British Columbia, MacGregor's hermetic, Jandeklike vocals and guitar strike an especially sympathetic match with Carter's lovely, soaring voice. The resulting union makes a model soundtrack for a haunted evening in the dead of winter, the duo's fervent, overlapping voices calling to one another like wraiths from across the moors. The track opens with an extended stretch of unaccompanied vocals, as Carter and MacGregor almost seem to be measuring what space their freed particles will have available to inhabit. Though the session was reportedly conducted in one of the radio station's hallways, the piece has a profound sense of wideopen distance, with every stray note and shudder fully illuminated against a dark, bottomless expanse. It's unclear if this live recording has been polished or trimmed down from a longer performance, but if there are any edits the seams have been made invisible, and We've seems to unspool naturally in a continuous unbroken thread of inspired dementia.  Despite the track's nearconstant vocalizing there are no lyrics to speak of, although at points the two seem to be cryptically repeating the \"we've\" of the title. As the piece progresses, MacGregor's guitar becomes increasingly percussive and demanding, a marked contrast to Tom Carter's fluid and more overtly psychedelic gestures in Charalambides. As the song winds down, Gown's vigorous, Derek Baileyinspired scrabbling impels the music to a conclusion of splintered electricity and primitive, nearrock motion. And though the album's potent allure will likely be most evident to those already familiar with Christina Carter's output, We've proves this promising new duo to be yet another suitable vehicle for her prodigious, surprisingly adaptable talents. "}