{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1785/homepage_large.d1cdfbd1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Christina Carter","title":"Living Contact","text":" For more than a decade, Christina Carter has explored the farthest indistinct reaches of the psychfolk cosmos as a member of Texas' Charalambides, a duo and/or trio whose haunting, emotionally charged creations possess such a highly personalized air of intimacy that it almost seems superfluous to further isolate their sound into its individual constituent parts. Nevertheless, Living Contact consists of home recordings that Carter created between 199498 using nothing more than acoustic guitar and the occasional trace of intuitive vocal. Shorn of Charalambides partner Tom Carter's oftenturbulent electric psych textures, Carter burrows deeper into the fertile soil of American folk to fashion simple works whose mesmerizing, outoftime splendor tidily anticipated several subsequent freefolk adventures. Recorded on boombox and originally released in a limitededition CDR pressing on the Charalambides' Wholly Other imprint, Living Contact is heavy with tape hiss, false starts, and abrupt endings, and couldn't feel any more intimate if you were a spider on Carter's ceiling. Although as a guitarist Christine lacks the technical virtuosity of such contemporary John Fahey acolytes as Glenn Jones or Jack Rose, on pieces like the opening \"Silhouette\" or \"Dream Mother\" she utilizes an elliptical fingerpicking style as she works her stark melodies carefully and methodically, as if turning through the fragile pages of an ancient, inscrutable book. At points during the 14minute epic \"Alone, Not Alone\" her circular, minimalist repetitions recall the more experimental primitive stylings of German guitarist Steffen BashoJunghans, and become so hypnotic that it always comes as a something of a startling jolt when she at last begins singing. When Carter chooses to use her voice, it's translucent and otherworldly, with her lyrics a gauzy, practically wordless stream of secretive exhalations. The literal meaning of her words clearly bears less importance than their placement, best evident on the track \"Going Down\", when the sole whispered phrase \"I'll go down\" fractures the song's placid surface as a single thrown stone into a tranquil lake, which leads into an extended fadeout as her guitar frantically kicks and splashes. As pleasing as Living Contact is, however, one can't help but be left with the nagging suspicion that there could be acres of such material lurking in Carter's closets. And though this album does rank as one of the most starkly pretty items in the extended Charalambides catalog, it doesn't aspire to the ambitious, transcendent levels of the full group's best work, and seems destined to appeal primarily to the faithful diehards who (understandably) cherish Carter's every move. "}