{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1792/homepage_large.ac7b62f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Chok Rock","title":"Big City Loser EP","text":" I hope Black Sabbath Riot 1980 gets reissued one of these days. The bootleg record is really nothing more than a field recording of the glorious disaster that was Black Sabbath's Milwaukee 1980 gig. The tape captures the band and frontman Ronnie James Dio being unable to erase the misery of Ozzy's departure, and to make peace with the democratic revolt of their audience. The record could be a cause for cynics to dance on rock's grave for the 23rd time, God's Chosen People to cast stones at the golden calf worshippers, and middleaged metalheads with 2.5 children, a solid credit rating, and Thomas Kinkade prints among their Frank Frazetta posters. !!! drummer John Pugh showed me that record after fishing it out of a LP pile in his tiny car's trunk before his band played at a San Francisco gig. Now Warp reissues another of the band's recommendations the debut from Chok Rock, a Parisian glitchhop unit that was discovered by a !!! band member at the Rough Trade record shop in London. Chok Rock materialized when Gael Baillier, a hardlucked sound design businessman and guitarist, crashed into a few ships in the night: singer Camille Bazbaz (who calls their sound, \"A futuristic dampness impregnated with sex\"), guitarist Cyril Kebellian, and visual artist Check Morris. They released their debut, Big City Loser on tiny label Chateau Rouge that went largely unnoticed until !!! passed along their record to the band's European label, Warp. Chok Rock certainly finds good company on that label as a few of their songs might be mistaken for Prefuse 73 Bsides and Big City Loser's cover art of jumbled scrapbook imagery resembles that of Extinguished: Outtakes. Still, these Parisians burn their fingerprints on the stereo. Opener, \"Give It Up\" is a near 15minute robofunk track that vaguely recalls Akufen with its microedited synths and R&B; croons. Midway through, a cloud of guitar steam breaks in to blow away leaves on the sidewalk. It's been said before, but it's a moment of oldfashioned music made seemingly new again with the right digital gloss. \"Buzz\" continues the electro element with higher calorie bassline, gnarlier guitarwork, and a stiffer groove that twitches shoulders, along with a sample of Beastie Boy King Ad Rock reminding everyone for the nth time, \"Ohmygod, that's the funky shit!\" \"Happy Man\" is more striking for announcing itself with a scream disintegrated in DSP fuzz before letting a George Clintonlike ladykiller croon through a CB radio on sprung ankle, crunk beats. And then there is the closer, \"Take a Plane\", where a bluesy, Sunday picnic jaunt with hookahsmoked flute is disrupted by editing mistakes and a looming UFO synth surveying the battlefield. On second thought, any Prefuse 73 references are moot. As Big City Loser indicates, whoever in !!! came across this record in the crates has done a public service. Let's see how these Gallic blokes 'n' lasses take the game afoot. Cheers, mate. "}