{"label":" Clap Your Hands Say Yeah","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1796/homepage_large.ff1517e1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Clap Your Hands Say Yeah","title":"Clap Your Hands Say Yeah","text":" Maybe no one told Clap Your Hands Say Yeah that first impressions are important. Or maybe they've just got massive sack. Either way, their selfreleased, selftitled debut CD opens with the weirdest, most potentially grating bit of snakeoil salesmanship you're likely to hear until Tom Waits puts out another record. I happen to dig the song, entitled \"Clap Your Hands!\" (a theme is emerging), but a maniacal carny barking over a stuttering calliope isn't for everyone. Those who persevere, though, will quickly discover that this garish foyer gives out onto spacious, elegant chambers of clean lines and soft lights. Clap Your Hands are a fivepiece from Brooklyn who're known to break out both harp and harmonica. They've recently been garnering rave press in their home city, and, over just the past two weeks, burning up the internet like a vintage Lohan nipslip. The pundits are saying Wilco (not hearing it), Talking Heads (okay), and Neutral Milk Hotel (getting warmer), but if it checks in with a number of modern and classic new wave referents, the music sings for itself: Clap Your Hands traffics in melodic, exuberant indie rock that pairs the shimmering, wafting feel of Yo La Tengo with a singular vocal presence that sounds like Paul Banks attempting to yodel through Jeff Mangum's throat. Or imagine the Arcade Fire if their music were more funloving and less grave. Of course, if Clap Your Hands had a press kit, it would undoubtedly include something about \"synthesizing these influences into a sound that's uniquely their own.\" And for once, it would be true. On the album's first true song, \"Let the Cool Goddess Rust Away\", a wailing vocal evokes Walkmen frontman Hamilton Leithauser, as hitching, muted guitars and singing melodic ones twist and furl over throbbing bass. On \"Over and Over Again (Lost and Found)\", the band veers into more Interpolish territory, with small, stripped guitars and bass, a thin synth wash, and lilting vocals with woozily yawning vowels. Same goes for the iridescent guitars, purring synths, and weary vocals of \"Details of the War\". The record is consistently, remarkably strong, but \"The Skin of My Yellow Country Teeth\" in particular stands out, with its richly buzzing synth phrases, textbook Modest Mouse guitar lead (a trebly, gliding string bend skimming over the rhythm like a flat stone over a pond), contrapuntal bass, and shuffling drums. The song also features one of vocalist Alec Ounsworth's most memorable performances: He ramps up the urgency as the heavier chords kick in, his voice cracking and shifting in cascading waves as if someone were pressing his vocal cords to a fret board and bending them. \"Is This Love?\", with its clean, galloping guitars and fruit loop synth trills is the song most blatantly redolent of Neutral Milk Hotel (especially of the unhinged pop and careening vocals Mangum favored on On Avery Island), and its dizzily wowing vocal harmonies carry over to \"Heavy Metal\", where fuzzedout bass and wheezing harmonica punch smart shapes into the fizzy guitars. There's something really refreshing about stumbling across a great band that's trembling on the cusp without any sort of press campaign or other builtin mythology you actually get to hear the music with your own ears. While a lot of bands view the promotional apparatus as a necessary evil, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah prove that it's still possible for a band to get heard, given enough talent and perseverance, without a PR agency or a label. Indie rock has received a muchneeded kick in the pants, and we have the rare chance to decide what a band sounds like of our own accord before any agency cooks up and disseminates an opinion for us. Damn, maybe this is how it's supposed to work!  "}