{"label":" Candlelight","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1806/homepage_large.3b5ba3e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"Circulus","title":"Lick on the Tip of an Envelope That's Yet to Be Sent","text":" I've been had. The moment the first strains of the first song off Lick of the Tip issued from the speakers, I flashed forward to a later track, the name of which had already made me grin without hearing it \"Power to the Pixies\". Circulus, their debut album's weirdly suggestive title aside, are the kind of band who will sing about transfering actual power to actual pixies. You just made me listen to a medieval folkrevivalist record. We're talking tights. We're talking woolen dresses. We're talking capes and floppy hats and all the Society for the Creative Anachronism accoutrements that, glimpsed across the Diag lawn, used to make even the mildmannered me feel the stirrings of a bully inside. We're talking a \"Britain's foremost medievalinfluenced progressive psychedelic folk band,\" per recent befuddled profile in The Guardian. In all fairness, the songs on Lick are not strict interpretations of Elizabethan music in fact, Circulus like to see themselves as hip pariahs in the stuffy world of what they call \"lute mafia.\" While they retain basic features of medieval folk the structures, the melodies, the nownovel plaintive intervals between the lead and backing vocals they also slather the record with signifiers of psychedelia. Squelchy synth lines compete with flutes for the high frequencies, and the low end is certainly more muscular than anything normally heard around a maypole. Circulus are not even above a wailing pentatonic guitar solo or two.  The album gets going, via \"Miri It Is\", with a classic fakeout a Middle Earth chant suddenly sprouts an angry beat, over which grows a layer of ELOstyle organ wanking. The disorientation is dizzying and not entirely unpleasant. There is, however, a glue that holds all this fiddlefaddle together and gives it a certain inner logic. Although it remains unacknowledged directly, that glue is, of course, drugs, and plenty of them.  Whatever the reason, stoner music is forever dancing around a miniature Stonehenge, and Circulus's hybrids are technically no weirder than the usual Celticisms of the heavy metal parking lot. So it makes total sense that Circulus are signed to Rise Above, a doommetal label, and marketed with a bit of a snicker (ask yourself how the hell did the album wind up at Pitchfork). The only thing I fail to peg is the band's own attitude toward their schtick. Are they more Napalm Death or Goblin Cock, so to speak? They do play it relatively straight, and there's nothing overtly campy about Lick. At the same time, Circulus are known to book hipster loft parties and rock them in full regalia, feigning obliviousness to the nature of their freak appeal. Something about this is upsetting in a very elemental way. Is it still a joke when its butt is absolutely every party involved? "}