{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1812/homepage_large.590bcd7b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Catfish Haven","title":"Please Come Back EP","text":" Two gigantic red flags flap at the gates of Catfish Haven's Please Come Back EP. The first is the band's name. I'm wary whenever I see such a pointedly bucolic name attached to an indie label, as young sophisticates appropriating earnest backwater idioms tend to be boring at best and terrible at worst. My suspicion that Catfish Haven was a condescending indiecountry band or ironic roots rock revival seemed to be borne out by red flag number two, frontman George Hunter's hoarse albumopening declaration: \"We're Catfish Haven and this is what we do!\" What, recycle old tropes of workmanlike humility without the hardearned lived experience to justify them? Turns out I was wrong on both counts, and by the end of the title track, those red warning flags had both been bleached surrenderwhite. Catfish Haven scan as a bar band what with Hunter's smokythroated moans and the lucid, feelgood quality of the music but there is no irony here. Nothing in the hooky melodies is purposefully obscured, and there's no sense of winking amusement at playing rootsy bar rock in a postrock musical climate. It's the EP's open quality the songs are simple and everything happens right before your eyes that retroactively recasts Hunter's introductory invocation of sincere bar bands past as a selfeffacing extension of his unflashy yet satisfying music. On the title track's searing raveup, staccato emotive bursts get swept up in a tide of concisely pounding percussion and stately rhythm guitar. Projecting from the diaphragm without overselling the memorable melody, Hunter's voice can crank up like a lawnmower or suddenly dip into bluesy melancholy with equal facility, and on this track in particular he belts like Van Morrison at his ampedup best. But this isn't his only register. On the smoldering dirge \"Crying Shame\", Hunter trades his exuberance for a sinister theatricality รก la Nick Cave, dragging the last word of each line over infernal embers. Both styles find purchase on \"Madelin\", as whining string bends and a diabolically distressed \"whoa\" suddenly let out into winsome, clattering rock. Take away quirky instrumentation, genre experiments, and yelping vocals; what's left in the modern guitar band's arsenal? Catfish Haven remind us: Tuneful, passionate singing, lucid songwriting, and engaging riffs. "}