{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1814/homepage_large.161ddf71.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Caroline","title":"Murmurs","text":" Murmurs, the debut fulllength from L.A.bywayofOkinawa pop enchantress Caroline (last name Lufkin), follows on the heels of her 2005 single \"Where's My Love\", a beautiful experiment in minimalist pop arrangements and angelic vocals. Murmurs delivers on the promise shown in that single, utilizing an array of acoustic and electric instruments to create dreamy, delicate textures as a backdrop for her lilting voice. The result is a blend of ethereal pop and ambient IDM that creates an elegant soundscape of atmosphere and mood. The disc opens with quiet, contemplative horns reminiscent of something Gene Wilder would've sung over in Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. As Caroline's voice glides in, she reminisces about a childhood love, and though muted keys and a low, thumping beat carry the tune, it's the horns that define the nostalgic mood. \"Pink & Black\" introduces a more dynamic rhythm, with a glitchy beat, tinkling piano, and layered vocal harmonies. \"Where's My Love\" appears here again, retaining all of its gentle beauty. Though it sounds like a lullaby, the vocals are at once sad and hopeful, the inner thoughts of a heart longing to find love. \"Everylittlething\" follows, and contains some of this disc's darker moments. Driving, distorted synths are almost enough to push the track into dance territory, but the quiet mood and soft refrain keep one foot grounded in the same realm as Caroline's more subtle moments. On \"All I Need\", she shows off her vocal range, complimenting her own lines with deeper, darker words and phrases.  Carolie's ability to sneak in unexpected splashes of different sounds whether a moment of anger in an otherwise serene song, or a moment of hope in an otherwise sad tune gives Murmurs its strength. Many of the album's best moments are not immediate but take multiple listens to make themselves known. Therefore, it's not just the subtle beauty in her voice that makes Caroline unique, but also her gift for using quiet ambience as a key element in these intricate, layered arrangements.  "}