{"label":" Kill Rock Stars / 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1822/homepage_large.e46d13ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Various Artists","title":"If the Twenty-First Century Didn't Exist It Would Be Necessary to Invent It","text":" The latest compilation from Kill Rock Stars' experimental indie rock subsidiary 5RC is ambitiously titled If the TwentyFirst Century Didn't Exist It Would Be Necessary to Invent It. Fair enough. The label itself has, in its fouryear existence, proven itself nothing if not innovative, and earned a rep for issuing some of the most challenging and forwardthinking bands going right now from Xiu Xiu and Young People to Deerhoof and Get Hustle. And this, its first commercially available compilation (not including last year's Charm soundtrack), collects a slew of material from 24 bands of every nongenre you can dream up (twee avantpop, groaning electronic music, gutbucket balladry), plus several tracks content to simply put a new spin on rocking your ass off. That said, it's also a difficult compilation. Much of the music is abrasive and the sound quality is lofi and grey, like it was mastered by the equivalent of a library Xerox machine. But a more serious issue is that some of the most interesting bands here can hardly be represented by a single track: it's difficult to grasp, from just one song, exactly where they're coming from, what attitude they take to their music, and what guides their decisions. Compare this setlist to the legendary and not dissimilar No New York, which took just four bands and gave them four songs apiece; The TwentyFirst Century is more of a starting point for further research than a complete picture of whatever scene encapsulates these bands. And the music is all over the map. For example, you've got your drama queens, writing ballads in the exaggerated vein of black box theater. Young People's \"Rich Bitch\" mixes harrowing guitars and plaintive plainspoken vocals behind a song that's brief but wrenching. And THETEETHE's cover of the Beach Boys' \"Don't Talk (Put Your Head on My Shoulder)\", with guitars as spare as balsa wood, is nicely persuasive, despite that their singer's vocals are so whinily emotive it sounds like he's putting you on. By contrast, the clumsily naïve lyrics of Dilute's countrytinged \"Home Is Where You're Happy\" are probably ironic, but the song still comes off as lightweight. Xiu Xiu also make an appearance, offering a track called \"Sad CoryoGrapher\". The song is a subdued ballad that lacks the band's usual fanpleasing percussion assault, but succeeds on its merits nonetheless. Jamie Stewart sings in a stiffly uncomfortable voice, quite like someone's inflating a balloon in his ass, if I may be so frank, but the melody's sweet, and the startling scifi synth figure makes the song a clear standout here. The few electronic tracks stretch my familiarity with the genre, and I can't fairly judge if Semiautomatic and Girls in Trouble are as monotonous and unpleasant as they sound here with their lowtech synths and robotic vocals, they make a grim, asexual sort of zombie dance music. The excellent and wildly prolific Wolf Eyes, however, hand in \"Cut the Dog\" which is far more extreme, with abrasive industrial beats, spritzwire noises, and weirdest of all, a bell, covering muffled, distant vocals. It sounds not unlike a zamboni plowing through mud, but it's engrossingly intense. Elsewhere, Quintron's \"949\" resembles Prince singing subJon Spencer Blues Explosion material, though it shows off the band's homemade \"drum buddy\" drum machine; the track is catchy, but I'd have to hear more of this to gauge how it's different from any other act with wacky lyrics and fat analog beats. When all of this gets too heavy, 5RC breaks up the mood with fantastic avantpop. Deerhoof's \"Sweet Knight Brugmansia\" displays the band's zaniest, kids'album loopypop, with Satomi Matsuzaki's little girl singsong (\"flower, flower, flowoohah!\") lilting over the calliopelike pace of the guitar crunch and scattershot drums. The Seconds' \"Mommy Mommy Mommy\" has jittery guitars and a verse that echoes James Chance and the Contortion's \"Flip Your Face\", though it's about a tenth as feverish. Another nostalgic and crowdpleasing track, the Sick Lipstick's \"Teenage Robot\", is probably the easiest sell on the entire record: it takes the surefire formula of a youngishsounding girl chanting scifi nonsense (\"We are the teenage robots.../ Can't stop us/ Mission's to destroy!\") and smears hot pink strawberry frosting all over it in the form of catchy guitar and organs. For the quickest music fix, of course, you can skip right to the rock, which comes from a series of phenomenal instrumental powerduos. Hella, a guitar and drum duo, contribute a live recording that sports tight choreography and rapid but melodic, Dick Dalelike twists and hydroplaning. Orthrelm and Osric, meanwhile, are somewhat akin to Hella but play ten times faster: both feature guitarist Mick Barr, a speed metal monster who takes the sweatiest onhisknees peak of a Yngwie Malmsteen concert solo and plays at nothing but that speed. In Orthrelm he's paired with drummer Josh Blair, who follows him unerringly; in Osric, he uses a drum machine, which simplifies the compositions and actually gives him a longer leash for fiercer shredding. Some fans have called him \"the best guitarist in the world.\" That's probably a bit like saying that some guy who wins the 300 meter sprint is the world's best athlete, but in the narrow space of what Barr does, he's incredible to behold.The TwentyFirst Century doesn't kick off the new millennium. It doesn't even flush away the 20th century (though I would pay handsomely to see someone do that). But it does highlight an important difference between \"different\" and \"revolutionary.\" The world is full of experimental artists and bands, despite what the Vinesclogged media suggests; it's just that those bands are more likely to cultivate an individual voice than they are to set an example for anybody else. 5RC makes a strong case by putting so many disparate bands together and finding what they have in common: they're all pushing the boundaries just enough to make space for themselves. This may not be the smoothest anthology of the year, but it is an incredible roadmap of the newest offcenter voices in rock: for noise fiends and pop fans alike, there's something here to annoy everybody. "}