{"label":" Acuarela","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1825/homepage_large.3d27cef1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Acuarela Songs","text":" Everyone has the right to pat themselves on the back once in awhile, so I won't hold it against the Spanish label Acuarela for this somewhat vain collection of songs. \"Acuarela\" is Spanish for watercolor, and all the songs included on this twodisc contair the word \"somewhere in the title, the spirit or the lyrics,\" according to the liners. Simple enough, and most bands play along, though some are certainly a stretch. I'm not sure how Mojave 3's ode to Mark Kozelek, \"Krazy Koz,\" fits the criterion, but I won't hold these slips against them either because so many of the songs here almost all of them otherwise unreleased are so darn good. Most comps like this take a shotgun approach, scattering an assortment of songs in the listener's direction, and hoping something hits the mark. Acuarela Songs, on the other hand, has a fairly clear aesthetic goal in mind: to collect the best in American, Spanish, French, and Australian sad white bastard music. Mojave 3, the Court and Spark, the Clientele, Mark Eitzel, Giant Sand mainman Howe Gelb, perpetual Pedro the Lion opening act TW Walsh, the Mountain Goats, and the Willard Grant Conspiracy are some of the bigger names on this comp. And, as might be expected, many of the participating artists come off as if they just scoured their vaults when asked to contribute. The greatest offender ir this respect is Mark Eitzel, who sounds as if he didn't even have a complete song lying around, and instead of coming up with something new, just spliced together a few unfinished bits and called it a day. Likewise, Howe Gelb scraps up a 1\\xBDminute acoustic track that starts out promising then disintegrates, sounding like the tape just ran out on him. But I'm not going to waste too much time on the disappointing and mediocre (of which there is plenty). I'd rather focus on the surprising and satisfying (likewise, plenty). \"The Colour of Water\" from the Leedsbased Dakota Suite, is a super smooth cooljazz instrumental with dual trumpet/guitar lead and amazing interplay from the rhythm section. Greg Weeks' \"The Waves\" is an ambitious psychpop workout with a creepy vocal delivery, a heavy fuzz guitar riff, and a quiet organlead outro it's a full album wrapped up in 5\\xBD minutes. I've been putting off buying his album for months, and I might just have to do it after this sample. \"Watercolor Rose,\" from Nashville singer/songwriter Doug Hoekstra, is a classic melancholy reminiscence. The closely miked vocals and achingly distant trumpet create a nice discrepancy that easily pulls you through the storysong about the natural selectivity of memory. Elsewhere, \"John King's Watercolor Bicycle\" by M. Ward is like Paul Westerburg via Red Krayola, while Tracker's \"Water Fills the Bedroom\" rides a rusty wheelbarrow atop Faheylike fingerpicking. Highlights of disc two include Paloma's \"Watercolor...\", just a shade away from your standard folk fare banjo and acoustic guitar accompanying plaintive, slightly flat Damien Juradostyle vocals but what a difference that shade makes. Australia's Sodastream give their naturally skewed take on Oldhamesque weirdfolk with \"Coloring Iris.\" The abrasive lofi jangle of the Mountain Goats' \"Saigon Shrunken Panorama\" comes as a bit of a shock, but this is never a bad thing where John Darnielle is concerned, and the song, as should be expected by now, is exceptional. As you can see, most of the worthwhile moments on Acuarela Songs come courtesy of the lesser known acts, which I suppose should be expected you gotta swing for the fences when you get fewer atbats. But despite the overall quality and the relative focus of the collection, with 32 tracks, it's all a bit overwhelming and difficult to trudge through all at once. A clear use for a collection like this is as random play fodder for your CD changer. But if you're like me, someone who detests random play, there are few uses for something like this: something to help get you across the notorious talkandcountryradioonly zone of central Ohio maybe, or a means for discovering some new artists without much initial investment. Listening to this entire twohourplus collection straight through is something like tuning into a college radio station during the wee hours of a weeknight, some lonely firstsemester sophomore behind the mic, just discovering his or her taste for mopey indie rock, seeking some kind of connection over the airwaves. In short: spotty. "}