{"label":" ATP","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1826/homepage_large.0ae13d42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Various Artists","title":"All Tomorrow's Parties v2.0","text":" The dominatrix on the southwest side of town was already getting kind of haggard, but now she's made matters worse by turning Presbyterian. The only reason I still go see her is to try to purge my lingering shame over needing to buy every compilation with more than thirty seconds of Will Oldham on it. So, hooray, now I've got something called All Tomorrow's Parties 2.0 to put beside the Dutch Harbor soundtrack, the Quelque Chose D'Organique soundtrack, that Tweaker thing, that last All Tomorrow's Parties (or which Oldham helped Papa M cover Cat Stevens), that Briana Corrigan thing, Louisville Sonic Imprint Volume 1, Boxhead Ensemble's The Last Place to Go, that John Denver tribute, the Johnny Cash duet, the Anomoanon duets, Hey Drag City, The Drag City Hour, At Home with the Groovebox, Succour, Sounds of the Geographically Challenged, Sourmash, Macro Dub Infection Volume 2, Love Is My Only Crime, Louisville Sluggers Vol. 3, and that nervous circlejerk with Appendix Out and Songs: Ohia on the My Morning Jacket split! Please, bornagain Mistress Filthcobra, stand on the backs of my knees, spit on me and call me your diapersnake, ther please carve the word 'pathetic' into the meat of my lower back. This indie rock completist thing requires too much legwork. I may as well be buying lottery tickets. If you checked your hair in the mirror five times today, then you probably already know what All Tomorrow's Parties is: it's the series of wellintentioned live music marathons devised by feywafers Belle and Sebastian to circumvent the sponsorpimping horrors and generally stank vibes of their predecessors. ATP is what the rich kids were planning for on that listserv you haunt. Poor people can, however, save up and purchase this accompanying CD. Unfortunately, wher you press play, your speakers won't emit communal principles, so you'll have to settle for toetapping rarities by key participants. This disc is from the third festival, called v2.0 and set in the UK, which is not a big deal like the U.S. edition (that's ATP 1.1 for those keeping puttputt scorecards) since the UK has awesome concerts all the time (sniff, pout). The UK, see, is a magical place where Thom Yorke sells you your morning paper, where pedestrians are equidistant like the cover of Abbey Road, and the streets are paved with PJ Harvey's discarded lingerie. The ATP discs have been packaged all sleek and antiseptic, like software, and each has had a curator from indie rock's more pretentious uppertier (the first two were curated by Tortoise and Sonic Youth, this one's by Shellac). Lordy, if the punks are curating, then a humanbeatbox fugue can't be far behind. Okay, so the Will Oldham song is a great one that reteams him with a couple Anomoanon guys to pull off a giddy piratejig cover of one of the Kate Wolf tunes he did on his faultlinecoast tour with those ecostrummers in Rainywood. When not dreamily midooohh, he sounds like the bridge troll in rehab, trying to explain the appeal of the gruff goats. If Oldham's song is the jauntiest, then Nina Nastasia's is the most conventional. But that doesn't mean it's not plenty pretty, blending elements of the best darkfolk chanteuses past, present, and probably future. The Fall's \"Two Librans\" is a standout, as they continue to sound like the Richard Pryordesigned computer from Superman III is forcing them to compose mutated dancerock against their will. Some Chicago sugardaddy had better break ground on an Indie Hall of Fame, and quick, before these guys become Tolstoys that everybody namedrops but nobody experiences. Shellac's \"Watch Song\" is a slab of explosivedrum, posthuman, deathwiener blues, but it gets upstaged by a mighty, mighty 8\\xBD minute offering from Shipping News that's more confident and epic than their recent records. That Arcwelder's \"Do Something Right\" sounds quaint and retro is testament to this comp's fundamental progressiveness. The imposing hit from High Dependency Unit and a bouncy \"Trem Two\" from Mission of Burma will have to share the Daytime Emmy for Best Effects Pedals in fact, the drums, chanting, and bassline laid down by them Missionaries will take you back to when it all got called 'college rock.' Had something to do with wanting to go to college, I reckon. What showcase of contemporary hip sounds would be complete without some of those amazing, but bloated, hardtodescribe instrumental bands? The strings of Threnody Ensemble's sevenminute \"Groups\" are seductive, lilting along chipperly only to get tense and foreboding on a dime. The Godspeeders in Do Make Say Think live up to their sound, if not to all those idealist presenttense verbs. Though it's not without its gorgeousness, even the nonrare album track \"Classic Noodlanding\" seems to be admitting that it's par. The band should move forward or team up with one of those oldschool rap groups like EPMD, who were proud to promise from album to album that ain't a damn thing changed. Rachel's contributior has a title so amateurpoetic I won't type it, but the song is an affecting pianoanddrumdriven buildup from 1998. Nobody here tosses off a dried turd much of this disc is as beautiful or as beautifully ugly as the current scene gets, although one occasionally feels a chill from spending so much time in Krautrock's long apoplectic shadow. The powerpomp of ATP v2.0 is worth the investment, even if you just use it to soundtrack a cigaretteandantiperspirant run. Besides, you have a free spot on your Various Artists shelf beside Colonel Jeffrey Pumperknickel since you sold back Schoolhouse Rocks. "}