{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1832/homepage_large.c5dcb586.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Various Artists","title":"To Spirit Back the Mews","text":" You know, when I first got this thing in the mail, I wasn't sure quite what to think. A thirtyseven track compilation issued by an obscure, preposterously named, Santa Febased record label owned and operated by Sufjan Stevens, a guy whose claim to fame thus far is the occasional Danielson Famile collaboration and a wellreceived but littleknown fulllength called Enjoy Your Rabbit. The disc, as it turns out, includes a large helping of unexceptional acoustic singer/songwriters, a couple of novelty pieces, and a handful of occasionally betterthanaverage lofi offerings. Thus, I'm left with the dubious task of distilling this bounty of unmemorable tracks into something you might want to read about. I hesitate to tell you there are gems hidden in the fabric of this release (overstatement), but like most compilations, a little patience and an attachment to your stereo's '>>' button might assist you in finding something to your fancy. HalfHanded Cloud's \"He's Not the Swindler We Are\" places singer/songwriter John Ringhofer's breathless quirkiness inside a synthpop structure that at times recalls early Stereolab. Torontobased Royal City's addition, the lazy honkytonk \"My Brother Is the Meatman,\" is a decent Silver Jews homage with wonderfully gory lyrics. Jason Brouwer also does a mean barbershop quartet paean to chewing gum that ranks as one of my favorite tracks on the album. Unfortunately, Brouwer is allowed not one, but two more opportunities to undermine his first and best contribution. The first, \"Run Me Out of Town,\" lifts a guitar line from a Kinks klassik almost verbatim, and reformats it for intimate squeaky cleanliness so that it might back up his tepid attempts at lyrical profundity. The second, the BeckmeetsGrandaddylite \"It's What You Know So Well\" barely deserves a mention. And that, folks, is all the mention I care to give it. The multiple tracks granted the artists on this compilation is mostly an irritation; if I want to hear more than one song by Liz Janes, I'll buy her CD. And an artist that simultaneously channels Cat Power and Ida while chanting, \"Guitar... guitar... guitar,\" over you guessed it a guitar is something akin to sleeping in a cage full of wheezing asthmatic kitties. Likewise, Sufjan Stevens gets four songs that, to me, all sound like the emotionally overblown acoustic sadcore favored by such controversial characters as Pedro the Lion and Damien Jurado. But the above are not the nadir. Those slots are reserved for the illconceived electronica (\"Bells\" and \"Big Room\") of Lowell Brams, whose contributions are both challenged and yet somehow saved by their brevity. Or the catatonia inducing, vague twee of the ladies in Lifestyles&Vistas;, who use both the holy spirit and an outoftune organ to sing about their preferred conception of \"the kingdom of God\" on \"Ordinary Guy.\" Or Matthew Haseltine's superbaroque folk instrumental numbers which I can only associate with the Positive Vibes Christmas music CDs played at art glass and ceramics galleries from November 15th to New Year's Eve every year since 1975. And while I'm at it, the short, witless monologues the label has included here are rendered tangentially viable only through the overuse of a vocoder on 'chipmunk' setting (accredited to \"Chatty Munchkin\"). Problem is, they're so blatantly ripped off from Beck's Stereopathetic Soul Manure that it strips them of any comic relief. I could imagine this being a better CD, sort of, had the Asthmatic Kitty compilers opted to quality over quantity, which would allow for a muchbetterthanaverage compilation with limited missteps. As it is, To Spirit Back the Mews is an exhausting mess, and seemingly symptomatic of a label that has a hard time saying no. "}