{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1833/homepage_large.0a6b34fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Mews Too: An Asthmatic Kitty Compilation","text":" It's hilarious that a record label this perpetually mild is responsible for the bizarre phrase \"an Asthmatic Kitty Compilation.\" Unintentionally evoking a fieldrecorded nightmare chorus of wheezing felines, the image is grotesque and completely at odds with the label's aesthetic, which, over the course of this sampler, shapes up like this: Find affable white people with acoustic guitars, establish a continuum spanning quirky indiefolk (e.g. HalfHanded Cloud) and Borderslisteningstation MOR folk (e.g. Denison Witmer), sprinkle with JudeoChristian imagery and wind chimes. Repeat as necessary. Perhaps since Asthmatic Kitty has a small roster of artists, Mews Too rounds out a smattering of new tracks from heavyweights like Sufjan Stevens and Danielson with backcatalog songs from likeminded artists only casually associated with the label. Asthmatic Kitty's not the most versatile imprint, and the 24 tracks herein divide neatly into five simple categories: Sufjan (one song); Sounds Pretty Much Just Like Sujfan or His Female Equivalent (12 songs); Danielson (one song); Sounds an Awful Lot Like Danielson (three songs); and Amazingly Doesn't Sound Much Like Sufjan or Danielson, clocking in at a respectable seven songs. So if you're into eclecticism or allergic to acoustic guitars and polite vocals, give this one a wide berth. But if you enjoy the comfort of wellworn idioms, there's plenty for you here. Sufjan checks in with his typical elegant reserve. Bogs Visionary Orchestra breaks the folky monotony with an oldtimey country shuffle; HalfHanded Cloud does the same with loopy harmonies and giddy trombones; Bunky with stomping sax lines. Castanets offer a brief reworking of the ominous title track from First Light's Freeze. Danielson, Men of Old, and Matthew Haseltine get all twitchy and shambling. Barring these diversions, the overall tone is one of innocuous beauty, although there are a few jarring missteps. My Brightest Diamond, Sam Rosen, and Liz Janes misplace their melodies in overstated vocal flourishes, while Jai Agnish softfocuses his into anonymity. And now the question burning in everyone's mind can no longer be held at bay: How Christian is it? Short answer: Besides one overt messianic sally from Royal City, hardly at all. I've publicly derided the persecution narrative surrounding the music with Christian themes marketed to secular audiences. Think being a Christian in 21st century America bestows outsider status? Try singing about Allah for perspective. But the erroneous assumptions with which I approached this compilation lead me to believe that maybe there's something to it. It's perfectly understandable that bands who dabble in Christianity with a measure of sophistication would want to distance themselves from \"Christian rock,\" one of the most crassly manufactured of genres. Trivial references to Christianity get blown out of proportion in the music press (he says coyly) a song that happens to mention a Buick Skylark isn't perceived as being \"about cars,\" but a song that mentions Jesus, even once, becomes \"about Jesus.\" In the end, though, it's probably of little consequence, since the trendy kids that supposedly discriminate against the new folk's occasional Christian themes aren't a logical audience for it based on sonics alone it's for emo kids, adultcontemp mavens, other warm fuzzies. You can not sing about Jesus all day, but if you're wearing a cardigan and plucking a banjo, the kid in the DFA tshirt is probably going to clown you anyway. "}