{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1839/homepage_large.ee3dd30b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Shanti Project Collection 3","text":" According to its website, the San Franciscobased Shanti Project \"provides education, practical assistance, and emotional support to people in need and shares its 29 years of experience with organizations nationwide through its training and consultation programs.\" The vagueness of that mission statement speaks more to the breadth of the organization's services than to the specificity of its actions, which range from education and research to care and transportation coordination for AIDS and cancer patients. The organization also performs a distinct service to music fans by acting as a raison d'etre for three installments of the Shanti Project Collections, a series of benefit albums that collect rare and/or unreleased songs from a disparate group of artists.SPC1 featured Low, Red House Painters, and Idaho, while SPC2 showcased duskyvoiced female singer/songwriters like Julie Doiron, Paula Frazer, and Edith Frost. Compiled by Badman Records' Dylan Magierek and again illustrated with Nyree Watts' photography, the series' third installment is a departure of sorts: Whether purposefully or not, the first two comps focused on songwriters, but the five bands on SPC3 The Black Heart Procession, Califone, Sigur Rós, Arab Strap, and Kinski all emphasize sound over songs. Each group contributes two songs to the album. Ironically titled for a leadoff track, The Black Heart Procession's instrumental \"Exit Out\" floats along languidly, structured only by Mario Rubalcaba's Moebiusstrip drums and some strategic chord changes; it's repetitive, but its endless loop builds and swirls evocatively. The band's penultimate \"Sort It Up\", however, is just repetitive. Califone's \"Michigan Girls\" is a subdued blues track worlds removed from the backporch jamble of their take on the traditional \"Cluck Old Hen\", with its ramshackle groove and lengthy coda. Arab Strap's dramatic \"We Know Where You Live\" and \"Devil Tips\" sound almost like The Streets without the garage beats spokenword narratives that emphasize local details and let listeners insinuate larger meanings. Kinski's two tracks (liveontheradio versions of \"Semaphore\" and \"Schedule for Using Pillows and Bean Bags\") build to intense peaks, much like Sigur Rós's \"Dánarfregnir Og Jaroarfarir\", which forms a louder counterpart to the quieter, lusher \"Bíum Bíum Bambaló\", both of which originally appeared on the N\\xFD Batterí single. Obviously, there's no lyrical consistency across these tracks, as only a few of these songs were recorded specifically for the Shanti Project, and only about half of those even have lyrics to begin with (and that's counting Sigur Rós's songs in Ice/Hopelandic). But SPC3 compensates for this lack of cohesion with sonic juxtapositions that constitute a subtle act of rock criticism. The collection draws out the similarities and differences between these five fairly distinctive bands, juxtaposing The Black Heart Procession's languorous lull with Sigur Rós's ethereal atmosphere, Califone's unobtrusive earthiness with Kinski's jetfighter dramatics and Arab Strap's wordsasinstruments creations. The similarities between them all their devotion to songs that arc gradually and patiently, their sense of structure and dynamics, their occasional longwindedness become all the more obvious as their differences dissolve. The overall effect is that rarest of rarities: a charity collection that sounds sculpted and cohesive, that has shape beyond its individual songs and life beyond its origins as a fundraiser. "}