{"label":" Brainwashed","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1841/homepage_large.7ff5afc4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Brain in the Wire","text":" As compilations go, Brain in the Wire doesn't make much sense. But then, neither does the institution that spawned it. Since 1996, Brainwashed.com has served as the Internet home to dozens of fringe experimental artists. From creepy industrial types (Nurse with Wound, Legendary Pink Dots, Coil, Current 93) and glitchy reconstructionists (Fridge, Panacea, Kid 606, V/Vm), to ambient noodlers (Stars of the Lid, Windy & Carl) and indie rockers (Bedhead, Godspeed You Black Emperor!, Tortoise), Brainwashed has been building, maintaining and hosting comprehensive websites for great bands at no cost, just because they enjoy doing it. And despite hits in the hundreds of thousands, it's all still free of costs and advertisements a strange breed, indeed. Which may help to explain why, at times, Brain in the Wire is about as coherent as George Bush Jr. at the peak of a coke frenzy. That's understandable given the diverse range of artists they've helped out over the years (many of whom have repaid the favor with exclusive works for this threedisc box), though it doesn't help that these tracks seem to have been arranged via dartboard. Example: I was pretty wowed by the Matmos/J. Lesser/Hrvatski collaboration that kicks off the second disc. The scorching rendition of \"Powder\" recorded at Chicago's Empty Bottle (by Shellac's Bob Weston, no less) is a powerful reminder of just what a mighty force Bedhead was back in the day. And the Meat Beat Manifesto track that follows stays true to Jack Dangers' wellestablished formula, not anything truly unexpected but still a pretty wonderful assault of the senses. Yet despite the quality of these picks, I can't help but question the sequencing of such sonically divergent tracks. Who sandwiches conventional indie rock between noiseinflected glitchcore and throbbing industrial heart attacks? It makes for an awkward flow more so than with your average compilation, which, unlike Brain in the Wire, typically revolves around some general theme. But I hear you. You could give a crap about this continuity bullshit; what you really came to read about is the music. Fine, then. But find a comfortable chair 'cause we're gonna be here a while. Brain in the Wire (the title of which refers to its initial pressing, which came free with a subscription to the British avantgarde music magazine The Wire) is three solid hours of screeching noise, programmed clicks, ambient phasing, and molten spacerock that reads like a who's who of contemporary underground music. And the overwhelming majority of these tracks are topshelf material, something that can't be said of most 'previously unreleased' offerings. Jungle specialist Panacea turns in a brainrattling dub reconstruction of a contemporary mainstream rap track about manning battle stations; !!! work their punk/funk hybrid with a tight live rendition of \"Hammerhead\" and, on \"disc x\" (for which the tracklist is a surprise and a pleasant one, at that), win best song title with \"We Were Stoned When We Thought Up the Title of This and We Didn't Want to Give It a Name That We Had to Explain as 'Oh Yeah We Were Stoned When We Thought of It' So We're Just Calling It Improvisational Jam 110201.\" There are a few clunkers, sure. The discs are spotted with inexplicable forays into folky, singer/songwriter pieces that drag on documenting little private dramas nobody wants to hear about. And then there's the sad tale of Current 93, who continues his recent trend of ignoring his own inestimable talent in favor of longwinded whining and acoustic guitar. But the great on this compilation outweighs the merely forgettable, and even when the results are predictable they still tend to be plenty enjoyable. Fridge contributes some of their choppedup, guitarbased postrock, Windy & Carl turn out another beautiful drone piece, Tino does breakbeatheavy dub, the Legendary Pink Dots make tribal krautstyle rock with strings and oboes, and Kid 606 offers the typically irreverent \"Pregnant Cheerleader Theme Song,\" which sets giggling, heliumvoiced chants of, \"I'm sexy/ I'm cute/ I'm popular to boot,\" \"I'm wanted/ I'm hot/ I'm everything you're not,\" and, \"I'm pretty/ I'm cool/ I dominate this school,\" to one of his standardissue pounding basslines. All of these tracks are mighty entertaining, but the best moments come from those artists who assuming this box will wind up mostly in the hands of purists and longtime fans took Brain in the Wire as an opportunity to try out something totally different. Coil, for example, shuns the gloom and foreboding he built his good name on in favor of what is, for all intents and purposes, a very well constructed piece of raverstyle dance music, complete with thumping bass, cheesy drum machines, fluttering synths and panting vocals. On the other side of the spectrum, Keith Fullerton Whitman (aka Hrvatski) turns his back on his typical rapidpaced drumnglitch and instead hands in a superb work for prepared piano, just slightly tweaked with digital postproduction. Initially, the casual listener might have a difficult time distinguishing between the processed sounds of this track and the organic ones, but as the 10+ minutelong piece progresses, the acoustic sounds are overtaken by showers of echoes and chunks of inverted waveforms wisping by at lightning speeds. Also winning big subtlety points are the Kadane brothers, who contribute \"Harvest,\" an instrumental that begins as a meditative guitar duet before settling on two ingeminating guitar patterns, adding drums and lightly struck bells to the mix. Elsewhere, Broadcast produces a solid microhouse track with effectslayered vocals and an eventual barrage of strange noises that owes more to the current techpop scene than to their recent LPs.Brain in the Wire is a costly little nugget, but it's packed with endearing work from enduring artists, and with its limited pressings and distribution, it's not going to be around much longer. Its three discs are as varied as can be, and sometimes to a fault, but frankly, if the worst thing a guy like me can say about a box like this is that it's too diverse, I'm probably just searching for imperfections to provide the illusion that this is really a piece of legitimate criticism and not just the inane rantings of another recordcollecting addict. Shit, I'll just put it this way: for a slapping down of one Grantfaced dollar bill, you walk away with a stainless steel container housing a healthy mix of rock, industrial, dub, electronic and ambient sounds that are just as welcome an addition to any music collection as Brainwashed.com is to the underground music community. And if that's not ringingendorsement enough for you, you've been staring at too many web banners. "}