{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1845/homepage_large.08e47de6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Wanna Buy a Craprak?","text":" Label compilations are a strange beast. In some ways, it feels weird to pay for them. They are, after all, essentially advertisements for a business, which is something we're used to getting for free. The fact that they're often extremely variable in terms of overall sound doesn't help. When each track seems completely unrelated to the one before, and the CD doesn't seem like anything you would ever listen to straight through, the comp feels more like something that should be inserted gratis into a magazine. There are exceptions. Some label comps actually become classics in their own right. Take 2000's Putting the Morr Back in Morrissey. It elevated German label Morr Music by laying bare the label's aesthetic direction and managing to sound like a cohesive record. There was No New York, the Brian Enoproduced introduction to New York's thenburgeoning nowave scene, featuring four tracks a piece from the nowlegendary acts The Contortions, Teenage Jesus & The Jerks, Mars, and DNA. And then there's Wanna Buy a Bridge?, the 1980 Rough Trade collection that introduced America to bands like The Raincoats, Scritti Politti and Cabaret Voltaire. I've never heard Wanna Buy a Bridge?, but the fact that I've heard of it, 23 years after its release, speaks to its classic status. You can't say that about Digital Hardcore's You've Got the Fucking Power.Wanna Buy a Craprak?, the first compilation from New York's Carpark Records, doesn't quite reach those lofty heights but it has a lot to recommend. First, it sounds great as a single record. There's a fine line between \"these tracks share a sound and attitude\" and \"all the artists on this label sound alike,\" but Carpark winds up on the good side of the divide. There is a definable sound to Carpark. Or sounds, I should say. Certain characteristics carry over from one artist to the next: No melody fear. Respect for the acoustic guitar. Warmth. Three styles predominate and the label's artists do them all well. I'm in love with the sound of an acoustic guitar being dragged and dropped, and Wanna Buy a Craprak? delivers plenty. Greg Davis' \"Brocade\", from a forthcoming album, is at least as lovely as anything on his underrated Arbor. Davis knows how to mix minimalist fingerpicking patterns with subtle beats and gentle noises; something about the fresh clarity of his sound reminds me of a cool but sunny spring afternoon. Marumari's \"Saka\" has an electric guitar, but the clean tone and processed slides, bumping up against some piano tinkling and choppy percussion, give the track a laptop folk feel. Ogurusu Norihide's \"5:00\", from the justreleased Modern, nods more deeply to tradition, as he spins a sentimental mountainside shuffle on steel string and bass with only the vaguest hint of digital processing. And then Hrvatski offers the tense, jittery exclusive track \"Equinox\", which builds acoustic guitar, feedback, accordion and percussion into something approaching pop until the track disintegrates toward the end. Carpark has also shown an interest in 80sinspired synthpop. Dinky's \"No Love\" (also found on her debut Black Cabaret) sounds both haughty and cheap, and some effective background vocals manage cancel out Andrea E. Perez' predictably bored delivery. Better is Takagi Masakatsu's bighearted \"Golden Town with Sunglasses\", which goes new wave in an endearingly clumsy fourtrack style, someone mumbling underneath the synths like a Silk Road Sukpatch. And finally, Kit Clayton & Safety Scissors' \"1711\" shares a lot with the Super_Collider IDMR&B; of Raw Digits, though with inferior songwriting. The final Carpark category belongs to the ambient stuff. So Takahashi's gurgling \"Blue, Blue, Electronic Blue\" is aggressively lovely, a slowly modulating drone that oozes light and texture. Kid 606 kicks in the spare \"If My Heart Ever Ran Away It Would Be Looking for the Day When Right Beside You It Could Forever Stay\" (from the Soccergirl EP), which is nice enough, but almost too simple for its own good. And Casino Versus Japan's \"Aquarium\" (from Whole Numbers Play the Basics) is dominated by softly falling organ chords, giving an effect that's nostalgic and dreamlike, a slowdance song from a parallel universe. The three primary styles on Wanna Buy a Craprak? really do blend together nicely, the thing is sequenced well and flows, and Carpark's artists are accomplished. A label compilation worth owning. "}