{"label":" Crippled Dick Hot Wax","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1850/homepage_large.566dea1d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Give Peas a Chance","text":" Something about television music makes it super music. I'm not talking about theme songs, but the \"background\" music most people barely realize is there. The composers of cop show chase tunes and ad jingles have to make everything come together in less time and with greater impact than even the most immediate pop. Furthermore, they have to make their presence known behind huge explosions and back alley shenanigans without jumping so far out front that their stuff detracts from the scene. It's a catch 22, you see, and the best TV music often betrays its supporting role by being eminently listenable beyond the big black box not that most people are running out to buy the Love Boat soundtrack. German rare grooves label Crippled Dick Hot Wax has made a point to dig up some of the finest in European media gloss from the 60s and 70s, making the case that maybe I've overlooked a musical goldmine on TV all these years. Similar to other CDHW comps (Popshopping, Beretta 70, Beat at Cinecitta, etc.), Give Peas a Chance, which focuses on German crime dramas and action sequence blare, seems most obviously targeted to DJs always on the hunt for a new break not that putting them out on an internationally marketed CD is a good way to protect their obscurity. The other part of the demographic would be a spaceage pop crowd who isn't satisfied with only one Stereolab record every year, especially now that the whole campy lounge craze has died down. However, most of this music is good for any slightly offcenter chill, and at the very least is better than watching old Columbo episodes. The bulk of the compilation features funky, jazzinformed jams from the 70s (though the music ranges for the 60s to the 90s). British composer (and former Olivia NewtonJohn bandleader, major plus) Alan Hawkshaw contributes two of the best tunes with \"Troubleshoot Vol. 2\" and the slick, Head Huntersstyle funk of \"Name of the Game\". The latter track lays down a patented Barney Miller drum/bass groove over which the Fender Rhodes (greatest instrument of the 70s) drops solo breaks the likes of which should not have been possible outside of Harlem. And, oh yes, there are slinky porno strings. Lots of them. It's an oldschool slice of fuzzfunk that trumps Guy Ritchie's entire career. Elsewhere is George Fenton and Ken Freeman's synthheavy 80s track \"Mobil Unit\", which makes me nostalgic for Miami Vice even though I never watched it. Fred Berlipp's \"Crime in Beat\" is classic Dragnetstyle shimmygroove the kind that makes modern interpreters of this genre like John Zorn's Naked City seem all too mechanical in comparison. The overdriven \"Good Company\", with big band horns, strings, clavinet, tympanis and a solo 12string guitar turns what was probably a runofthemill chase scene into symphonic grandeur with a beat. It goes without saying that not every track is essential, and I'm a little confused as to why two new Freddy Gigele (one of the most active soundtrack composers in Germany today) pieces were included: They're good throwbacks to the era in which most of the other tunes were made, but stand out like digital sore thumbs. Also, some of the tunes tend to lapse into novelty, like the campy take on Middle Eastern music of Dieter Reith's \"Arabia\". But as a whole, it's not a bad way to get a party started. Book it, DanO. "}