{"label":" Definitive Jux","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1856/homepage_large.8891b09a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Definitive Jux Presents II","text":" There's a saying my family has been trying to teach me for years about people who don't talk often. It goes something like, \"People listen to other people who don't talk often,\" or something to that effect, but with far more pith. Whatever the pithy saying is, however, I'm certain it applies with great vigor to music. Pitchfork spews like Old Faithful on just about every subgenre on earth, and, as evidenced by our vitriolic reader mail section, you take ample liberty to pronounce us full of living shit. There is one genre, however, on which you remain notably silent. This genre is hiphop. Although your silence could be attributed to soulfree apathy, it appears from the empirical data that it's something else entirely: an unquestioning, irrational trust of Pitchfork hiphop recommendations, and a validation of that great, classic saying (whatever that saying in fact is). You see, we don't often write about hiphop, but when we do, you respond by opening your wallets. I offer as proof two examples, both released in 2001: Cannibal Ox's The Cold Vein, and Aesop Rock's Labor Days. If you didn't buy them, you know you went out of your way to hear them. And none of you had the balls to say an ill word. Like lemmings, you follow. While you may be our lemmings (and full disclosure, we were far from the first publication to go off about those records), we are undoubtedly Def Jux's bitch. Aesop Rock and Cannibal Ox, both pillars of the label, could tell you that. Our fidelity aside, though, Def Jux really is doing one hell of a job. It's rare that you get one joint as good as The Cold Vein or Labor Days in any given year. To have two, and both on the same label, is something close to a minor miracle. So it's on the heels of this success that Def Jux understandably desires to garner some exposure for the rest of their cast. Their latest compilation, Definitive Jux Presents II, puts several new faces in the spotlight with above average results, stopping a few steps short of greatness. If Def Jux could be defined by any single musical element, it would be the beats. The beats on DJP2 are dark, jagged, and intriguing, and not a single one of them could in any way be deemed \"danceable.\" Subway beats, sewer beats these ones reek of the underground. The best beat comes early, on the album's first track, \"Same as It Never Was,\" by the Weathermen (featuring ElP, Vast Aire, Cage and mHz, among others). Employing an ordinary breakbeat, the song's verses are fueled by a repetitive threechord key progression that sounds like a cross between an accordion and a Fender Rhodes. The chorus choppily and spastically misquotes the Talking Heads over a springy, oscillating scifi sample. All together, it's got an snarling offkilter funk. Real nice. Aesop shows up with a \"grimace\" and a solid set of rhymes on \"Dead Pan,\" declaring in the chorus, \"No, I'm not feeling all right.\" Imagine Aesop in a fussy, bad mood, and you've got a handle on this track (\"Drink a bad glass of gumption/ Not bad meaning 'bad' but bad meaning 'disgusting'\"). \"Hold the Floor\" features a rough, headnodding beat and a solid battle from mHz (\"Now goin' against me and thinking you ain't gonna die/ Is like skinny dippin' in hell, thinking you ain't gonna fry\"). Producer RJD2 does enough on the instrumental \"I Really Like Your Def Jux Tee Baby\" to live up to the rep he gained with the heralded 2001 12inch, \"June.\" His beat on the comp visits the same emotions as the rest on DJP2, but with a little less grit, and a little more grace (like strings samples). Again, Pitchfork has spoken. This time, though, we've been let loose from our Def Jux leash. DJP2 is quite good, but not great if you're a big hiphop fan, you'll want this. And as an intro to the depths of the label, it ain't half bad. But if you're close to filling your threehiphopalbumsperyear quota, I'd save your money for another Def Jux artist debut, and another Pitchfork orgasm. "}