{"label":" Deluxe","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1859/homepage_large.93ccfec4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Night Owls 01","text":" Night Owls 01 is the best kind of label compilation: one with an overriding theme. Rather than slapping together a bunch of castoffs haphazardly, Deluxe's Mike Martinez commissioned tracks some by Deluxe artists, some not that relate in some way to the nocturnal. In addition to reflecting the nighttime premise, most of the artists here approach electronic music from the glitch/click/cut angle, lending further textural continuity to the compilation. That said, one man's continuity is another's redundancy, and there's no doubting that if you're growing tired of glitches, you will not enjoy Night Owls 01. This sort of sound is everywhere in electronic music these days, and a few of these tracks seem nothing more than indistinct IDM with a few fashionable signifiers. To ignore the compilation as a whole because of a handful of dull tracks would be a mistake, though, because there's some exceptional work happening here. And despite the similarities in approach and sound, it's not hard to tell where the real talent lies on Night Owls 01. For starters, you have to look to label boss Mike Martinez. He contributes two tracks: one in collaboration with visual artists and designer Jon Santos (whom he works with as Parts:places), the other under his familiar Electric Birds guise. The Parts:places track, \"Untitled No. 8,\" is a standout, a brilliant sheen of subaquatic drone and throbbing feedback sprinkled gently with evocative clicks and glitches. It actually sounds more like Electric Birds than the Electric Birds track \"Autofibre,\" in which assorted belllike tones are processed and split apart before the tune develops into a quivering mediation on two organ chords, complete with relaxed drum programming. Also skilled is Finnish newcomer Esa Ruoho, whose two exceptional tracks mark him as a producer to watch. The bass bubbles of \"Molies 1\" feel dark and cold, with a highend rolloff conjuring the arctic breeze Alec Empire cultivated on his Low on Ice release. More impressive still is \"Molies 2,\" which feels like midnight in the oilsoaked field behind the abandoned screw machine shop. The sounds of strange chattering creatures are mixed with a hum that seems sampled from a slowly creaking weathervane, helping make the track genuinely scary. Deluxe artist Eblake contributes the similar and equally strong \"Nachtmusik,\" a track that would have been the best cut his debut record. Clanking metal, vague splashing sounds and deep organ chords give the piece the feel of a three a.m. film noir scene. The final highlight is by littleknown French producer Aspic, a feast of Microstoriastyle botched transmissions, the sound of an amplified tap on a massive phone network fed through a delay machine. The above is the good stuff, and the remainder of Night Owls 01 is not so much bad as indistinct. The tracks in between the standouts do little to draw attention to themselves, and instead seem to serve as lengthy bridges between the peaks. Overall, Night Owls 01 makes for a good fronttoback listen and effective background music. Just be sure to pull yourself from your book at the first sound of something exceptional. "}