{"label":" Paw Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/189/homepage_large.a1ff8bc5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Animal Collective","title":"Here Comes the Indian","text":" The last time I was lost in the Enchanted Forest, stomping through the snarls of black branches, snapping sticks and rustling the leaves, I came across a bent hag. She whispered a few words, scattered some herbs to the wind, and shrunk my hands into little oneinch nubs at the end of my fullgrown arms. Helpless, and with nightfall hastily approaching, I stumbled across a campfire that had been built by the friendly furry creatures of the Animal Collective. I could hear noises coming through the trees as I approached: They were making feral cries in the darkness, beginning \"Native Belle\" and startling me for just a second. After a full day of jamborees and playing Indian in the woods, Avey Tare, Panda Bear, Geologist and Deaken were dancing like children around the crackling fire among the pines. Their voices were twisted electronically to the point that they were hardly distinguishable, swirling around as though just loosed from the Ark. I felt feeble in my attempt to join in, my hands cursed as they were, but the Animal Collective made me comfortable in my new body, showing me that even with such undersized tools and scarcely more than drums, voices, effectladen guitars and keyboards infinite sounds were possible. The moves were simple, really: I could still whoop like an injun, flapping my nubs over my mouth to bawl rhythmically. Holding my hands up into my ears, all the sounds flickered like primitive wahwah pedals along a cave wall. Even with these hands, I could still clap, and did so right in the middle of the Gibbytronic slurs and screams of \"Hey Light\". The wolfhowled bursts quieted into snapping pattycakes and chanted rounds around the dying embers. These communal murmurs were far removed from their first spastic sounds. Panda Bear showed that by tightening my hands into balled fists, my very arms could become drumsticks, conveying endless energy, every surface a percussive experiment. Even as I tap out this recollection, they clack against the keys rhythmically, moving with the rounds of distorted campfire singing; not as a regular beat, but as something stumbled upon and followed into the wild. The thinly veiled vocal menace of Sonic Youth's Bad Moon Rising is laid out on \"Infant Dressing Table\" with much clanking, wailing and gurgled regurgitation. Seemingly innocent as a newborn babe, \"Two Sails on a Sound\" mutates the dark forest into the wood panels of Whitley Strieber's downstairs den, suggesting the presence of silvery aliens. As a piano sampled from Cluster II plinks out \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic\", the twelveminute abduction transcends gloryglory hallelujah altogether. \"Slippi\" is a lost Missa Luba ritual disguised as basement hardcore, an ecclesiastical outburst of joyfully chanted heart patters. \"Too Soon\" creaks as near to the ground as cricket tremors, interrupted by the shrapnel of the exploding frogs that fall from the trees. Our hands also tremble with inevitable release. It is a natural death for such forestdwelling creatures as us, slowly losing hold, rising and falling. The odd pop traces from Avey Tare and Panda Bear's muchbeloved Spirit They're Gone, Spirit They've Vanished have become discernable at certain moments on this day, but only echoed distantly in the woods, not so much lost as Gone. The music was stripped down to that ecstatic skin of mouth, hands, and feet, invoking a rhythmic rapture I had previously only associated with Boredoms and certain tribal recordings. While it's hard to grasp exactly what the Animal Collective was up to here that day in the forest, I have fumbled for hours tonight with my withered paws to gain some kind of understanding, and to hope for just one more glimpse of the ghosts with whom I was so sure I'd danced. "}