{"label":" Hefty","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1889/homepage_large.b2751d1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Immediate Action","text":" My initial exposure to John Hughes III's Hefty label was the nonetooinspiring mathrock outfit Chisel Drill Hammer. There was something so very Chicago about that record, from the Albini recording to the geometric packaging to the Slintstrumental guitar rock that wasn't really rock. Even with my limited exposure to the scene, I had a vague feeling that Hughes was trying to cast Hefty in the Thrill Jockey mold. Chisel Drill Hammer braced me for a spate of uninspired copies. Thrill Jockey still seems like an inspiration, but Hefty seems to have overhauled the quality control department. The label still keeps a finger in the postrock pie, and like Thrill Jockey, also dabbles in fusion and free jazz. But lately, electronic music seems to be coming to the fore for Hefty. Unlike Thrill Jockey, which licenses most of its experimental electronic music from Europe, Hefty's IDM talent pool is drawn primarily from the States, with releases by Scott Herren (as Savath + Savalas), Twine, and Hughes himself (as Slicker). In late 2000, Hefty released a series of 12inches under the heading Immediate Action. These records had a limited print run and were packaged and presented in a simple manner intended to keep the focus on the music. In addition to featuring artists from the Hefty stable, Immediate Action releases included exclusive tracks and remixes from artists on others imprints. If you weren't one of the 700orso people to acquire each vinyl release, you have a second chance, as Hefty has gathered the tracks together on two shiny, portable compact discs. Casting aside the aim of the original vinyl issues, Immediate Action is a fine collection on its own, and a perfect example of what a multiartist label compilation should be. Like Mille Plateaux's famous compilations, Immediate Action avoids the tired \"here are some tracks by some artists on our label\" approach in favor of a wideranging statement of belief. And what does Hefty believe in? While the styles on display throughout Immediate Action are familiar to followers of experimental indie music (glitch, machine dub, jazz fusion, etc.), Hefty seems to show a preference for accessibility, and few tracks could be described as cold, sterile or abstract. Hearing Scott Herren's organic work as Savath + Savalas again, after time spent with to his Delarosa + Asora and Prefuse 73 guises, is illuminating. \"Two Blues for Marion Brown\" is mellow electric jazz with glowing keyboards, a patient rhythm and distant hints of machine noise. \"Yesterday's Throwaway and Reprise,\" with its double bass, vibes, and crisp drumming, moves even further from the harddrive IDM and glitchhop of more recent Herren projects. Also on the jazzy tip is the Samadha Trio, a groovy combo with a forthcoming Hefty fulllength. They remind me of a more relaxed Medeski, Martin and Wood with a penchant for heavy postproduction. Live recordings of the electric keyboard/bass/drum trio are tweaked and reconfigured into a refreshing and slightly disorienting mix. The rhythm in \"Amidha\" drops out suddenly as bits of static bubble through, while the Bill Evansish acoustic piano in \"Satoric\" competes with a background conversation that could be a film sample. England's Process represents the less musical end of Immediate Action's spectrum, but even his computerized soundscapes are engaging and accessible. \"Define\" seeks the warm cloud of static Jan Jelinek likes to float in, while \"Diffusion\" touches on the slightly harsh industrial drone music of Janek Schaefer. In a similar vein is Twine's excellent \"Surn,\" which combines a regal piano melody with digital noise and a hesitant, unsteady beat. Further diversity comes from Johnny Herndon of Tortoise and Isotope 217, who contributes two inviting tracks of melodic electronic dub under the unfortunate moniker A Grape Dope. Most interesting on Immediate Action are the tracks where Reaktor programming meets pop vocals. Bogdan Raczynski's remix of Hughes' \"Yet You're Here\" find him immersing Hughes' deep voice in the crunchy, musicboxgonewrong sound so prevalent on his recent fulllength, My Love I Love. Better still is the Slicker collaboration with the Aluminum Group on \"Next Time,\" which contrasts rich machine noises with the dry, brittle sound of Navin's typically crafty vocal. An albumlength project with these two camps would be more than welcome.Immediate Action finds Hefty in the thick of what's happening in the crowded zone between indie rock and the experimental electronic fringe. The label is gaining character and complexity with age, and this encouraging twodisc set feels much more \"pre\" than \"post.\" "}