{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1904/homepage_large.48e12cb3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Sound the Hare Heard","text":" This compilation takes its name from a Buddhist parable, which goes a little something like this: A hare imagines the end of the world. A fruit falls from a tree and goes boom. The hare mistakes fruit boom for end of world boom, and starts screaming and hopping. Other animals see and hear the hare, and quickly follow suit. The wise and knowledgeable Bodhisattva (in the form of a lion) stops the stampede, and shows them how the hare mistook the sound of the falling fruit for the sound of the end of the world. One way to interpret this parable is that the animals learned the danger of putting faith in unsubstantiated information, a message that might have some relevance in these times. Aside from a few politically minded tracks, this compilation is more about KRS proprietor Slim Moon giving various singersongwriterly types some exposure. \"Singersongwriter,\" of course, being a lazy standin for what happens when someone picks up an acoustic guitar and pens songs about life. In light of the parable, the sound the hare hears might be tracks by highprofile contributors Sufjan Stevens and the Decemberists' Colin Meloy, with the hubbub being the mad dash by various fans to pick up this comp based solely on the inclusion of these two artists. Consider this review a lion trying to, at the very least, slow down the lemminglike rush to snap this disc up the Law of Diminishing Returns applies to this compilation as much as it does to most, and the two crown jewels attracting all the attention aren't all that valuable. Stevens' \"Adlai Stevenson\" is a perfectly decent (if slight) song, showing he can use Wikipedia as well as the next kid. It will undoubtedly sound just fine on his upcoming demo collection, but barely makes an impression here. Would that the same could be said for Meloy's awful \"Lazy Little Ada\". The most notable thing about it is the use of drum machine. Decembrists haters will revel in how this track bolsters their stance. Hopefully, anyone delving into this thing based on the drawing power of those two heavyweights will stick around for some of the comp's true highlights the quivering poetry of Laura Veirs' \"Cast a Hook in Me\", Imaad Wasif's mournful \"Other Voices\", and Danielle Howle's vengeful \"Kill My Love For You\", to name a few. Of course, for every crest, there's a trough Meloy's listless little ditty, for one. Simone White's \"The American War\" and Nedelle's \"Poor Little City Boy\" take the annoying tendencies of Nellie McKay the precociousness, the selfsatisfied whimsy and broadcast them in High Definition. Wooden Wand meanders around Skip Spence territory without finding any distinguishing landmarks, while the Slumber Party's Aliccia BB does her own pisspoor version of lite FM California dreaming folks looking for better approximations of this tact should skip to the Great Lake Swimmers track. The Moore Brothers' twin vocal attack comes off as a limp copy of the Proclaimers' brotherly love, and if you don't remember the \"I would walk 500 miles\" song, consider yourself lucky. And I'll leave it up to you whether the Everyothers' Owen McCarthy and his unerring impersonation of Bono are worth your time. To its credit, Hare covers a wide range of sounds within this admittedly limited purview the upbeat and the downtrodden, the Dylanesque and the Motownflavored. Unfortunately, this disc is still mining a very small area, and comes off more as Slim Moon and His Amazing Friends and His Friend's Amazing Friends than any sort of cogent statement about singers and songwriters.  "}