{"label":" Klein","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1905/homepage_large.72e5f5df.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Sincerely Yours","text":" Sincerely Yours is a compilation of previously released, exclusive and advance material from the roster of Klein Records, a German electronic label founded in 1996. The collection holds together stylistically, as none of the nine artists breaks far from sofachill mode. But how many more chillout comps will I have to endure before I find any innovation? The record begins in a slightly clubby mode with UKO's \"Automatic,\" a midtempo house tune with a spliffy veneer, excerpted from the band's 2001 selftitled album. Mika's \"Trampolin\" continues the clubby trend with a genteel breakbeat and a horrendous Street Hawkperiod Tangerine Dream guitar line. So far, the droopyeyed set have nothing to fall into their couches over. That's where the Sofa Surfers come in handy. With a track snipped from their forthcoming Encounters album, the Sofa Surfers give toney stoners an anthem with \"River Blues\" featuring the hemped vocals of Jeb Loy Nichols. Nichols' nasal and elongated vocal style works a treat when contrasted with a hienergy rhythm track, such as the Ewan Pearson Maas disco remix of Nicols' \"Say Goodbye to Christopher.\" But never has a singer described their own style more aptly as when Nicols sings about muddy water on this soporific track. Albin Janoska tries to emulate Fat Jon the Ample Soul Physician with a headbobbing instrumental hiphop tune called \"Lem\" soon to be adored by seldombathing, sandalwearing Eurorailers. \"Lem\" has the perfect balance of lowend theory and quivering strings, garnished with a selfimportant, tinkling piano line. Probably splendid after a eighth, if I'm feeling charitable. Markus Kienzl connects with the dub shacks of yore on \"Top Dog\" and scores the highlight of this disc. After unleashing echoes, Kienzl lets rip a bassline that should have turned up on Billy Cobham's plundered Spectrum LP. With minimal percussive adornment, Kienzl lets the bassline suck you in for five minutes. The only vocals here sound suspiciously sampled from Paul McCartney's countin intro to the reprise of \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band,\" processed to sound like a really baked person fumbling their way to the number four. Then comes a track from Seelenluft, a guy with a penchant for dressing up in bunny costumes for his public appearances. Here, he chimes in with more fumbling nonsense on \"Manila,\" in which an uncredited vocalist hollers about dancing without a seatbelt before someone with an amateur urge to be John McLaughlin cuts her off with his hamfisted display of plankspanking. I do like \"Manila,\" by the way. Its goofiness redeems it, and if nothing else, it beats the piss out of the following track, \"Son of a Gun.\" \"Son of a Gun\" is by Mum (not the Icelandic applied IDM band, but some duo sorely lacking in dignity), and it's another contribution to that already swollen cliché, the hollerin' bluesman sampled and pasted into an incongruous midtempo house track. Mum at least altered the guitarline to sound like some sort of oud or gourd monochord, and thereby making some statement about the West African roots of the blues. Or perhaps Mum thought that gourdfashioned monochords somehow convey a hollerin' man's sonofagun status more effectively that a plain ol' guitar. Humbucker's \"Thrill Jockey,\" rather than traipsing into the mines of originality, opts to emulate Linkin Park. And then, Lichtenberg's \"El Duke,\" with a mass of iconic Latin and spaghetti western signifiers, thankfully releases us from xFCmetal Valhalla. But for all the chacha maracas and hornblasts, the song sounds nothing less than incidental music from a \"Star Trek\" fight sequence between James T. Kirk and some malevolent snaggletoothed alien beastie. Should go down well at your next office party, then.Sincerely Yours (a title which must clearly be in doubt after this motley array of tracks) closes superbly with a new version of Seelenluft's \"Music for the Stars.\" Hardly different from the blissful UltramarineasaWurlitzeroutfit version that appeared on last year's SynchronschwimmerEP, the track deftly highlights what Klein is capable of releasing when not bogged down in forgettable fodder for the trustfunded stonersabouttown. "}