{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1912/homepage_large.ea51275b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Matador at Fifteen","text":" Anniversary labelcomp season is back again. By now, indie labels know the formula like a musicsavvy University of Chicago grad student: one disc of hits, one disc of \"rarities,\" maybe a DVD. It's the stuff holiday bonuses are made of! Merge launched 2004's opening salvo, following up their 10yearanniversary comp Oh, Merge with a sweeping 15year retrospective, Old Enough 2 Know Better. Now Matador is embracing its move into its pimply teenage years, too, and is releasing a threedisc set to prove it. Matador at 15 kills 'em with quantity in the dubious tradition of 1999's directionless Everything Is Nice and 1997's epochdefining What's Up Matador. For many, Matador was the first label to remind us that we weren't \"blind or brokeneared,\" as Pretty Girls Make Graves' Andrea Zollo puts it in propulsive, wellpicked opener \"This Is Our Emergency\". But the new set is limited to tracks recorded after its predecessor, which means you've come to the wrong place to give your little brother a taste of prefame Modest Mouse. Fortunately, the 00s have been kind to Matador founders Gerard Cosloy and Chris Lombardi. There will never be another Slanted & Enchanted, but a couple of people got pretty passionate about a record called Turn on the Bright Lights. The New Pornographers and Pretty Girls Make Graves released wellreceived records, running the gamut from clever powerpop to angular, passionate punk rock. Matador veterans Cat Power, Yo La Tengo and Stephen Malkmus are still releasing solid indie rock. And if that doesn't blow it all away, wait 'til Mission of Burma reach for their well, you know. So this comp has a shitload of great bands, then? You bet your vintage GBV concert tee. Is the price right? It'll run you around $13 for 34 tracks and 12 videos. So this is fucking great, right? You know, I also like beer. Sometimes I even buy good beer. Once, gazing at a pool of Brooklyn Brewery black chocolate stout framed beneath me in porcelain, I had a revelation: something about \"the sum of the parts.\" Seriously, raise your hand if you've been waiting with bated Dorito breath for Preston School of Industry dance remixes (thanks for being honest, Mr. Stairs). How many times do you really plan to watch a jokey video of The Wisdom of Harry doing their best \"Girl from the North Country\" impression? It's not that Matador at 15 isn't impressive. The \"greatest hits\" disc is consistently good, if not great. Along with the obvious favorites, Cornelius holds up particularly well I had no idea I'd still like the sampledelic schizopop of \"Drop\" so much. Even Belle & Sebastian makes a delightfully dainty appearance with \"Don't Leave the Light on Baby\". Bardo Pond drones like Bardo Pond, or A Thousand Leavesera Sonic Youth. Interpol's \"Specialist\" isn't exactly rare, but it's a haunting addition to the second disc. The New Pornographers' supposedly unreleased pop gem \"Graceland\" is a keeper, too. And as for the DVD, Malkmus' \"Discretion Grove\" video presents a hilarious portrait of his goofy, everironic persona, while Cornelius once again steals the scene with the mindblowing, simple \"I Hate Hate\" video. You'll never need drugs again. Still, the latter discs are really only for total completists. Disc one is probably only new to the uninitiated, who would be better off starting with the label's mid1990s catalogue, anyway. So a single question hangs over the entire compilation: Why? It's been five years. 'Tis the season. "}