{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1915/homepage_large.0262d3a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liam Singer","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Old Enough 2 Know Better","text":" Driving across the country, as I've been doing over this past week, one sees some strange and fantastic things written in America's bathroom stalls. In Utah, I was treated to a prolonged ode regarding Outkast's Andre 3000; in Missouri, a piece of political discourse ranging from an intricate dissection of John Kerry's foreign policy record to \"nuke 'em all.\" And on a women's stall in an Iowa bar (I'm not a perv, the men's was being used), I found that someone had scrawled a line from Neutral Milk hotel's \"Song Against Sex\": \"Don't take those pills your boyfriend gave you, you're too wonderful to die.\" That Neutral Milk Hotel have become stallquotable is emblematic of the place they occupy in the hearts of their fans. Everybody has music that encapsulates their past, and for an increasing number of listeners, it's the music of the more established independent labels Merge, Sub Pop, Matador, or K that helped them discover a world of indie culture and define an identity during their formative years. Neutral Milk Hotel's \"Song Against Sex\" is the first song on Merge's 15th year compilation Old Enough 2 Know Better, a massive 3xCD set offering both a look at the label's long run and a collection of new tracks. The cover art, by David Horvath, features a happy world of wee little counterparts to Radiohead's fierce, sobbing creatures, reflecting the general sentiment of the label's condensed sound. Being given a chance to hear so many Merge artists in once place, I was struck by how noticeably friendly the aesthetic is positivity courses through this collection's veins. And though Merge's niche was built on the fundamental indie pop sound, hints of backwardlooking folk and country also pepper the collection, making the label seem equally a refuge for singer/songwriters born in the wrong decade.Old Enough abides by the same format as most compilations of its type, aiming to give newcomers a representative overview of the label's span, introduce casual acquaintances to more obscure artists in the roster, and give devoted fans something new. The first two discs comprise the retrospective, filled with popular songs that haven't been too playedout over the years usually solid tracks off artists' more overlooked albums, such as \"Long Vermont Roads\" from The Magnetic Fields' The Charm of the Highway Strip. Disc One is a little more raw, featuring the likes of Buzzcocks' \"Jerk\" and Polvo's excellent \"Tragic Carpet Ride\", while the second showcases subdued sounds in the varied orchestration of The Ladybug Transistor or singalong pop of The Essex Green. It takes us in no particular order from Versus, Spoon, and, of course, Superchunk, to the new generation of acts like M. Ward and Destroyer, who are now filling the void left by the sincedisbanded groups on which the label built its rep. As excellent as the retrospective is, fans and obsessive completists alike will be purchasing this collection mainly for Disc Three: 19 tracks of various rarities and unreleased songs. The contributions are almost uniformly excellent, and nobody ought to be disappointed. M. Ward's \"One More Goodbye\" is, as you might expect, a jangly piece of pretty and wistful folk, while Spoon covers Yo La Tengo's \"Decora\" in a markedly Spoony style of callandresponse guitar and bass. The disc also indicates the expanding variety of influences represented in Merge's sound Richard Bruckner's orchestral country ballad \"Dogwood\" provides a striking interlude, as does Crooked Fingers' Spanish ballad \"La Maleta Fea\". Though it's probably not the mix that any one person would compile, this collection comes as close as such an effort can to pleasing all of the people all of the time (especially at the price of one CD). As the joke of the title Old Enough 2 Know Better is borne in mixing a wizened grumble with IMspeak, so does the compilation manage to evoke simultaneous nostalgia, discovery, and excitement for the future. Still, it does strike me as just a little scary to think that 30 years from now, the oldies stations might be playing the Merge catalog for a bunch of blackclad grandparents with star tattoos and vintagevintage cowboy shirts, driving down the road and scrawling Neutral Milk Hotel lyrics in rest stops and bars as they see fit. "}