{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1916/homepage_large.bac7c03e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Electric Ladyland: Clickhop Version 1.0","text":" Used to be that I'd define the music I bought and enjoyed by genres. I liked rock music and jazz. I didn't like hiphop or country. But after I started working, and was able to buy more music, I found my tastes had developed. I no longer limited my purchases to certain genres, and as a result I began to discover musicians of all stripes I enjoyed. But not everyone's musical taste grows up along with them. Many continue to depend on genres rather than sound to decide what they'll try. Many continue to make brash allencompassing statements like, \"I don't like dance music,\" or \"I don't like classical music,\" well into their middleages and beyond. Consider Electric Ladyland: Clickhop Version 1.0, an attempted public service from Mille Plateaux (yes, the same oftenrevolutionary Mille Plateaux label that also brought us the Clicks and Cuts series). Following in the footsteps of Prefuse 73's Scott Herren, Machine Drum and other likeminded acts, the artists assembled on this twodisc collection dedicate themselves to furthering the recent trend that sees the shrinking of the gap between hiphop, dance and electronic music. The results are as varied as are the approaches. On the sparse \"M 06 Short,\" alva.noto sculpts quiet beats out of static. Safety Scissors contributes an eminently danceable soundscape of choppedup samples with \"Mr. Blister is Connected to My Fingers.\" And there's Spectre's minimalist instrumental, \"InfraRed (Danse of the Dead Part 2),\" which gets more mileage out of three or four samples chopped up and pitchshifted, naturally and a simple beat than many artists get out of a full record library. That benchmark of hiphop/electronic amalgamations, the nowtrademarked Prefuse 73style choppedup vocal manipulations, shows up a few times here most effectively on Andreas Tilliander's spastic \"Hastjobb\" and AGF/DLAY's opener \"The Return of Us.\" It's an interestingsounding technique, and its popularity is justified, but listening to the lyrics on Electric Ladyland's other vocal tracks, one begins to wonder if there isn't another reason why garbled vocals seem to appear almost as often as the real thing these days. With the exception of Dälek's rhymes about revolution and fellowship on Kid606's remix of \"R. U. IN IT\" (at least, those parts not totally obscured by spastic strokes of noise), the vocals on Electric Ladyland rarely merit much notice. At best, we get selfaggrandizing wordplay from Antipop Consortium's High Priest. At worst, Graphit E ponders the location of his niggas. All around there's an unfortunate feeling that someone somewhere decided that lyrical content doesn't matter so long as the music behind the words is unique, an unfortunate decision that keeps Electric Ladyland from achieving all it might have. Also disappointing (by no fault of the artists I lay the blame on the comp's producer) are contributions by Captain Comatose and German house stars MRI which make extensive use of the same female vocal track. While this could have been an interesting experiment, there's little with which to differentiate the two tracks, especially considering that both accompany the singer's pontifications with a driving bassline, bleeps and little flourishes circling a beat. Still, there are a lot of solid tracks here. Frank Bretschneider's \"Holt\" is a simple yet effective downtempo number built around a handful of resonating, electronically produced tones and crackling percussion. Auch's \"All That Pretty Horses\" starts off heading in the same direction, but takes a wrong turn somewhere along the line into a minefield of commonplace glitchery. Towering above all the rest, though, is Akufen's contribution, a track called \"Little Hop of Horror,\" that begins with the cacophonous static and random noise of a manipulated radio tuning knob, before finally tuning in on a laidback, guitarbased funk groove. As the song plays out, Akufen makes unpredictable loops out of the bits of static and random radio sounds. While many of the tracks here entertain, this is one of the few that truly succeeds in merging elements of experimental, dance and hiphop. Ultimately, the biggest problem with Electric Ladyland is that, in its admittedly noble attempt to disregard genre lines, it tends to come up short where cohesiveness is concerned. Though its goal is, without a doubt, to open the minds of listeners to other musical possibilities, I can't help but feel that some of the straightforward 4/4 time dance tracks, like Sophie Anderson's \"Don't Follow\" will grate on those listeners who get a kick out of more experimental fare like \"Hastjobb\" and vice versa. More tracks like Akufen's would have made for a more compelling compilation one with a stronger unifying theme. Instead, Electric Ladyland is just a collection of solid songs. This is hardly a bad thing, but if compilations are to be held to the same standards as straightup albums, then it's impossible to deny that this one seems a bit lost at times. In many ways, hiphop, dance and electronic music have grown up next door to one another. Each existed for ages as a vague idea rather than as an actual genre or style; all three came into their own in the 80s; and all gained mainstream appreciation in the 90s. Today, we often see hiphop, dance and electronic music pandering to the masses, cheap bastardizations of brilliant work masquerading as the real thing. So it's reassuring to know that there are artists just as there have been since the early 20th century toiling away in relative obscurity, ensuring that both genres continue to develop. Maybe one day, thanks to their work, no one will miss out on great music due to some prejudicial, predetermined notion of genre. In the meantime, the enlightened among us can enjoy Electric Ladyland: Clickhop Version 1.0. "}