{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13850/homepage_large.ee0f7113.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Clicks & Cuts 3","text":" Force Inc. Music Works is without question one of the most important and influential organizations in postrave electronic music. This parent company, founded in the early 90s in Frankfurt, has under its umbrella labels including Force Tracks, Force Lab, Mille Plateaux and Ritornell. A staggering amount of quality electronic music has been released under these imprints, from the experimental and abstract to the danceable and clubfriendly. If one could magically slice away the music released under the auspices of Force Inc., the current electronic music scene would be impossible to recognize.In line with European intellectual trends, Force Inc. has never shied away from engagement on a theoretical level. Not content to merely document happenings, Force Inc., particularly with Mille Plateaux, has consistently sought to shape the discourse on electronic music directly, by collecting and presenting compilations that seek to define cultural trends, and offering accompanying booklets with manifestos dense with poststructuralist theory, particularly the ideas of Gilles Deluze (the label took its name from a book he wrote with Felix Guattari). Mille Plateaux's Clicks & Cuts series, which first appeared in 2000, has been particularly successful in this respect, essentially defining the aggregation of electronic music created from material usually discarded as error, the nowubiquitous \"glitch.\"Meanwhile, over on Force Tracks, an influential compilation from 2001 showed another movement afoot. Hypercity, a label sampler selected and mixed by Andrew Weatherall, offered a fascinating glimpse at what had been going on in the world writer Phillip Sherburne termed \"microhouse.\" Artists like Luomo and MRI had incorporated some of the techniques of the clicks & cuts producers, such as a focus on sonic detritus and the amplification of the typically microscopic details, and applied the tool set to functional, danceable house music. Though microhouse, like most electronic genres, has proven somewhat difficult to define, its profile has grown steadily (I thought it was wildly overrated, but witness the many 2002 yearend lists that included Akufen's My Way) and does not seem to have peaked.Listening to the third installment of Clicks & Cuts and Force Tracks' Digital Disco, two compilations released within a few weeks of each other late last year, it sounds like a serious convergence is underway beneath the Force Inc. Music Works tent, and it's happening much further down the pop end of the spectrum. Clicks & Cuts 3 is by far the most accessible and grooveoriented of the three collections so far (though it should be said that this series has always had beatfriendly leanings), and Digital Disco, true to its title, discards the conceptual baggage entirely in favor of a relentlessly listenable dance party that, at points, would be at home on Billboard's Hot 100.It's telling that several artists appear on both compilations, and the selected tracks are both in line with the artist's styles. The venerable Luomo, who has appeared on Clicks & Cuts compilations past under his old IDM guise Vladislav Delay, offers \"Melt\" to Clicks & Cuts 3 and \"The Present Lover\" to Digital Disco. Both tracks incorporate his signature blend of warm synths, sensuous drum programming, and cutup vocals. \"Melt\" is a bit more jerky and less house than \"The Present Lover\" and contains heavier vocal processing, but both are pure Luomo. Berlin's MRI gives the gothic electro \"Painkiller\" to Clicks & Cuts and kicks off Digital Disco with the buoyant and clubby \"Disco Discovery\", two more vocal tracks that let the experimental take a backseat to pop.Throughout Digital Disco, in fact, just about everything takes a backseat to pop thrills. Virtually every track features vocals, and most are delivered straight. This is the sound of the Force Inc. Music Works empire dancing around a textbookfueled bonfire. I can't say exactly what inspired Sylk 130 to record a sleek, polished cover of Nu Shooz' 80s dance pop classic \"I Can't Wait\", but it sure doesn't sound like a cultural critique. Whatever the motive, it's bound to trigger nostalgia in every child of the 80s and send the throng down to the dance floor.Even more sugary is Astrobal's \"Magic Lady (1040 Mix)\", which blends squelchy electro sequencing, swooping strings and the best chorus hook I've heard in some time into a slice of late disco heaven that conjures that loving spirit of the Paradise Garage. Other highlights on Digital Disco include Metro Area's \"Miura\", which has been making the compilation rounds, Swayzak's \"Husky Bitch\", which has a hypnotic lowend riff, and Herbert's \"Stop Like This\" mix of Akufen's \"Deck the House\", which improves on the original in my opinion by more skillfully manipulating the vocal samples (although it does lose a touch in groove).Next to the unabashedly joyful Digital Disco set, Clicks & Cuts seems a bit muddled. While it's true that this is the most accessible set in the Clicks & Cuts series, many of the tracks seem to want to have their theoretical cake and eat it, too. There's some weird noman's land that drifts into view here and there, where dance beats are given a halfhearted nod but other conventions of pop music are avoided. One gets that sense that Clicks & Cuts sought to gather tracks that could be viewed in the experimental Mille Plateaux tradition while hinting towards the world of song structure, but the result is none too special.I think snd typifies this dual approach, where the experimental meets the pop and the balance seems a little off. Their \"Palo Alto\", which leads off the compilation's first disc, is very much in line with their 2002 release Tender Love, in that it isolates the twostep beat in an arid glitch environment. Elsewhere, Robin Judge's \"Rhizome\" is like a microscopic version of an R&B; slow jam with some dub overtones, but doesn't particularly reward careful listening. Frank Bretschneider's \"Risk\" incorporates some 70s funk elements but pales in comparison to something like Soul Center, which it closely resembles. Funny that the three best tracks with pronounced beats come from Digital Disco contributors. In addition to the fine Luomo and MRI tracks, Swayzak's \"Don't Quit Please\", is another good winner. This housey number only has the bare minimum of sounds, basically a few clicks and buzzes, including the essential killer bassline.In the latter part of Clicks & Cuts' second disc, Tim Hecker and Ekkehard Ehlers represent for the oldschool Mille Plateaux style, with Hecker's \"Brownwedding\" wafting in from the same ominous plane as his Haunt Me, Haunt Me, Do It Again and Ehlers' \"The Bakes in the Wood\" squeezes melody out of a series of seemingly random organ chords. Records like the latest by these two and Random Inc.'s Walking in Jerusalem demonstrate that there is still a lot of life left in experimental glitch, but you won't find much of interest in this vein on this Clicks & Cuts compilation. One senses that this third volume finds the series at a crossroads and unsure where to go next, though personally, I expect we'll hear plenty of fascinating music in Mille Plateaux's future. And from the evidence here, Force Tracks will continue to hum along on the strength of that endless house beat. "}