{"label":" Ministry of Sound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1921/homepage_large.cb34c96a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Various Artists","title":"This Is Tech-Pop","text":" From the third act of \"Supper in the Stereo Shed\": Grandpaw: You look afeared, Boyboy. What's irkin' you? Boyboy: Nothing. Grandpaw: Come on, now, spit it out. Don't mock my gift of discernment. Boyboy: Grandpaw... is it okay if I like keyboard music? Grandpaw: Hmph. Thought we already had this discussion. You not supposed to fool with that rubbish. You from the hills. They got hills in heaven. I ain't heard tell of no synthesizers being in heaven. Sometimes I swear you don't have the sense the good Lord gave a toggle bolt. Boyboy: Those CDs you took from me, could I have them back? Grandpaw: Look, now. I lost your sister Fern to that keyboard music in the 80s. And I had to bury your brother Coy to save him from its techno spawn. You're all I got left. I can't have you miming the piano thing from Erasure's \"Blue Savannah\" on the hearth and stashing copies of Depeche Mode's Some Great Reward in the churn. That music'll have people thinking you're a... invert. Like when you went to the city and came back with a pocketbook. Boyboy: That was an eelskin attaché, Grandpaw. And I aim to live in the city one day. Grandpaw: Where'd you cotton to keyboards anyway? Did you get this idea off that blasted landscaping website? Boyboy: No. Pitchfork only halfvouches for the Faint and Stars and Vitesse. And they said the newwavey Trans Am and Hefner were no good. They'd hate this unironic, sometimes daft, celebration of pure digiretro swizzle. Grandpaw: Them boys at Pitchfork can sniff how faddish it all is, see, how it won't hold up over the years. They must have the gift of discernment like me. Boyboy: They're not all boys, Grandpaw. And I don't care what they say; I like it all. I snuck this CD past you. Look. Grandpaw: Well, great day in the goddamn morning. This Is TechPop. Where'd you get this stinkbiscuit? Let's see what the helpful booklet says: \"These are goodlooking acts that have a strong fashion sense and are really fuckable.\" That's just impudent. Boyboy: Yeah, the liner notes are superficial and coarse. I apologize. Don't keep reading. The author goes on to link techpop's rise to the recession and terrorism. Grandpaw: Your mama always said bad things come in threes. Boyboy: I mean, get blitzed to counter terror? Talking Heads and Radiohead, in \"Life During Wartime\" and \"Idioteque,\" at least pointed out the ironies of clubbing as a means of escaping having to fathom catastrophe. I dig these synths and beats, but I don't know about advocating conscious denial and aggressive neglect. \"This ain't no disco...\" Grandpaw: Who you talking to? You're alienating the hellcrust out of me as bad as some of these names. Fischerspooner? Boyboy: Their song announces itself too much. Music has to do more than just arrive. Overrated. Grandpaw: Zoot Woman? Boyboy: Their lite song is ugly. Mouthwashy. Should accompany the wholesome/titillating scene in a Freddie Prinze Jr. movie when he touches toes in the pool with the busty virgin. The only song worse is Crossover's bratty, redundant contribution. Grandpaw: Freddie Prinze has a kid? Boyboy: Some of the songs here are swell, though. FC Kahuna and Selway do the most with their bleepity riffs, and Console, Tomcraft, and Mirwais use so many awesome vocal effects that they sound like lovelorn Decepticons. Grandpaw: Hey, now, use some words that make some good common horsegumption. What is a Ladytron supposed to be? I think your cousin Plovis ordered one of those. Boyboy: Ladytron chucks out the umpteenth remix of \"Playgirl.\" Electroyawn. But so many of the other femalevocalists' songs are close to terrific: Circ's \"Destroy She Said\" is one of those hits you accidentally memorize on first listen, and Swayzak's \"State of Grace\" is dopey, but inescapable. Grandpaw: One word: brainwashing, or as Reverend Bagwell says, \"lasting attitudinal change.\" Boyboy: Soviet's \"Candy Girl\" is pure midperiod New Order. Grandpaw: Don't you get it? New Wave, New Order, New Age. Heathenry is afoot. Devilment with a Korg instead of a Ouija. Boyboy: Please, just listen to it.[20 songs and 78 minutes later, after a hacking cough and Grandpaw cursing about asbestos tiles...] Grandpaw: The hour of vengeance must be at hand. I felt lobotomized by that seventh song that kept saying \"genedefekt, genedefekt.\" All these people's names are going on my list. Boyboy: But some of them were using guest vocalists, and some of them record under different names, and some of them are producers more than recording artists. You'd never track these people down, Grandpaw, they live all over the world. Grandpaw: Sounds like Babel. Like a chaotic orgy. And I recognize that song \"Sunglasses at Night,\" from the 80s when that stuff got its hooks in your sister Fern. Boyboy: Yup, the novelty instafades on that cover. Did you like any of the songs? Grandpaw: \"Naked, Drunk, and Horny\" was fine by me. Yellow Note Vs Pukka, whatever that is, recreated a scenario we all enjoy. And I like that she was building stairs by hand, and she talked about lumber and nails. I got goosechills to that line, \"I'll wear sawdust instead of clothes.\" Most of this music is so divorced from anything organic it makes me wanna shoplift a banjo just to feel the wood. Techpop seems awful environmentless to me; you could never distribute mulch or pot azaleas to it. This is for those coiffured and hermetically sealed people who never sweat. It's carcommercialcore. My second favorite: \"Rippin Kittin\" by Golden Boy with Miss Kittin. About murder, so I liked that, especially that line, \"Daddy, can I go out and hunt tonight like you do?\" She's not just pulling your leg, she is ornery! Boyboy: Great taste, Grandpaw! Those are two of the best tracks. Grandpaw: I noticed that a couple of them went tstchicka instead of the predominant oomchicka. Boyboy: That's microhouse. Grandpaw: Like a outhouse? Boyboy: No sir. Grandpaw: Like a microwave? Boyboy: No sir. Grandpaw: Foot! Confound it! I don't have time for nonsense. Boyboy: Didn't you like how the CD is cleverly choreographed so that each song evolves into the next one, creating a superjuhhamm! Grandpaw: That just made it all run together more, to me. What's so '21st century' about this? It's that same stuff as that Yaz and that Gary Numan. Boyboy: Granted, almost every stylerevival is more homogenous than its predecessor. This disc is monochromatic compared to the oldschool punkdance In the Beginning There Was Rhythm comp. And come to think of it, there's not a lot of experimentation with the formula. But the album never promised difficult art, it promised that \"This Is TechPop.\" Which turned out to be straight talk. I mean, that's more honorable than naming a movie something grandiose like Reign of Fire when it should have been called Some Dragons at FourteenMinute Intervals. This, thankfully, isn't a Tupperware comp of leftovers, but it's also not pushing its genre's boundaries. It's an audiencewidener, designed to work like hypertext you link and click off into the catalogs of the best acts. There are winners on this comp, but if the genre stays at this level, it'll have to be renamed ColecoBubble. Grandpaw: You're starting to sound like that Rakepoke website. Boyboy: I wish. If one of the Pitchforkers reviews this CD, I bet that slut will listen to it and enjoy it a lot more than his 'critical' rating indicates. Grandpaw: Simmer down. Finish your chicken waffles. And give me a sip of that crayfishberry milkshake. I'll take a hickory switch to your hide if you don't forswear that techpop and them rank city dreams. Boyboy: Yessir. "}