{"label":" Mint","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13358/homepage_large.e0912418.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nashville","text":" Tribute albums are a funny business. In a bestofallpossibleworlds scenario, the tribute album can be mutually beneficial for both artists and the industry. They theoretically allow artists the ability to both honor their influences and appear more musically sophisticated. If you're unable to appear on a tribute album for a highly obscure, yet supposedly seminal Danish psychedelic band, you have to go out of your way to find the most obscure song ever recorded by the recognizable band you're covering. Labels, in the meantime, reap the benefits of audience identification with both the coverer and the coveree. Strictly hypothetical example being: \"People love Tom Petty. People love Incubus. If Incubus also happens to love Tom Petty, we may be able to move some serious units.\" Mint Records' recent Nashville tribute targets diehard fans of both Robert Altman and Neko Case. And, just so you know, all twelve of them have already purchased this record and cancelled their Short Cuts screening party to write poison pen letters to me at first sight of that 5.9 (never fear I'm a fan of both Robert Altman and Neko Case. I'll be nice, I promise). It's not a particularly intimidating demographic. Nashville is a brilliant film, featuring a superior script and a fairly astonishing ensemble cast. It's one of the best films of the 1970s a decade synonymous with great filmmaking and I don't think I'd be overstating if I called it a classic of American cinema. In spite of (or perhaps because of) its reputation, I didn't get around to seeing it until just last year; it didn't change my life or anything, but I liked it. So, I can't exactly hold it against you if you haven't rushed out to the local PicAFlic to rent this musical/comedy/satire tour de force about politics and country music. Mint Records' tribute is an almost perfect replica of the movie's soundtrack, with the artists on the album playing the part of the actors singing as their characters from the film. In the filming of Nashville, Altman gave each of the actors the opportunity to write their own songs for the characters they portrayed. On the tribute, Canadian alt.country performer Carolyn Mark doled out the songs to her circle of friends and/or Mint labelmates. On Mint Records' Nashville, the part of sleazy, selfrighteous town greeter Henry Haven (originally played and subsequently sung by Henry Gibson) is sung by both Dave Lang (the preachy, hilariously maudlin \"For the Sake of the Children\") and Dave Gowans (the jingoistic bicentennial tune \"200 Years\"). Both do a competent job emulating the smarm factor in Gibson's original delivery. Like most of this album, there's not a considerable amount of originality in the Mint artists' versions versus the original. It's not a completely reenvisioned album, it's just Nashville replayed by a bunch of Canadians and a couple New Pornographers (note, however, that New Pornographer Carl Newman's \"Memphis\" is not among the album's high points). Neko Case does a fine job with \"Rolling Stone,\" eclipsing Karen Black's original by sheer vocal power alone. Likewise, Carolyn Mark's renditions of the Ronee Blakley numbers (\"My Idaho Home\" and \"One, I Love You\") romp all over the original material. But outside of stirring up interest for an admittedly good movie, and occasional moments of stellar vocal work, I can't really figure out why one would want to buy this album on its own merits. Even the original soundtrack (found on vinyl with some ease at many friendly neighborhood Goodwills for about a dollar, give or take some scratches), removed from the film, is little more than a novelty piece. Nashville is a nonlinear sort of musical, so you can't exactly follow the story by ear alone the way you could, say, Oklahoma. Maybe all those Altman/Neko Case fans will eat it up, but I'm holding out for the Drag City tribute to Gosford Park. "}