{"label":" Morr","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1924/homepage_large.eedbe9ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Blue Skied an' Clear","text":" Critics always use this simile where musicmaking is like geographical exploration. This pegs the tricky thing about musical innovation: you can set out boldly in search of liberation, set foot in uncharted realms, and stride back shouting \"look at what we've done,\" but five years later, your new hinterlands will likely have lots of cute little condos on them with families living inside. This is exactly what's happened with IDM, which is terrific. Our bold adventurers led us into The New, and their successors camped out there. So, now that an IDM 'sound' has been established and we've put in the ranch homes and the post office, what do we do with it? Tigerbeat6 and Morr Music, though not strictly IDMbased labels, seem to have the most compelling answers to that question. Tigerbeat's is: now that the homes are built, let's live in them muss them up and fill them with dirty and jokes and dirty jokes instead of treating them like museums. Morr Music is even less of an IDM label than Tigerbeat6 many of its releases run toward minimal techno and electro. Nevertheless, they too have an answer. They've rightly decided that living in this new frontier constitutes some difficult cerebral challenge: drop the hardliving pose, they say, and let's decorate. Morr's artists take the sounds and techniques of IDM, techno, electronica the textures, the relentless formalism and fashion them into something that often points toward pop music. Which is why it's natural that the Morr crew have put together this twodisc tribute to shoegazer messiahs Slowdive, a band whose whole focus was the tension between elaborate textures and vivid pop. We'll skip how tremendous Slowdive were and how brilliant the Morr stuff is (though the short answer is 'very'). Thus, it's with deep regret that I must announce that the first disc of this comp the one with the actual Slowdive covers isn't all that great. Even the Múm track. Especially the Múm track. Here's the thing: Slowdive's Neil Halstead is a good songwriter with a distinctively languid, narcotized feel running through most of his work. But Slowdive's various walls of woozily swelling guitars weren't just ornamentation; they were integral parts of the songs. \"When the Sun Hits\", from Souvlaki, crawls through its first verse on a highhat tick, bass pulse, and guitar echo. Halstead tosses off, \"It matters where you are,\" and an oceanic gale of guitar and synth kicks through. Get it? It matters where you are. \"When the Sun Hits\" gets covered twice here, first by Solvent and later by Komëit. The Solvent version points to problems. The Morr cadre is devotedly minimal, exercising great skill in letting two or three really compelling sounds do the work of seven or eight mediocre ones. So Solvent kicks off well subtle, condensed, robotic. And then \"it matters where you are,\" but... nothing. None of the cathartic swell which was part and parcel of Slowdive's songs. No one on this disc even tries to tackle it, not with noise or glitch or giant synth pads. Nothing. Which is slightly different from the standard complaint of the guy who can't tolerate anyone reinterpreting the originals it's not that they're taking liberties here, it's that they're occasionally skirting the songs' purposes without introducing new ones. Some tracks do okay nonetheless, creating enough of their own dynamics that they don't miss Slowdive's. Lali Puna's \"40 Days\" uses just a bit of texture over steadily shifting and mounting drum programming; B Fleischmann and Ms John Soda turn \"Here She Comes\" into a minimalist invocation; Styrofoam makes a lovely chiming drift out of \"Altogether\". And while you'd think someone would fare better with the tracks from Slowdive's last record, which itself dropped the full band and dipped into ambience, that is sadly not the case here. Ulrich Schnauss turns in what's basically a mild remix of \"Crazy for You\", and the usually promising Manual runs uninspired through \"Blue Skied an' Clear\". It all sounds really great, though it doesn't seem like much of a victory, given how epically perfect this whole thing could have been. But here's why you should buy it anyway: there's a second disc, a proper Morr comp except occasionally \"inspired\" by the Slowdive theme. And it's Morr in fine form gorgeously structured, exquisitely assembled, cerebral and beautiful, cleanlined and melodic, and somehow leagues ahead of the interchangeable 'organic' IDM records anonymously littering store shelves. Most striking is Guitar's \"House Full of Time\", the first imitation of Loveless (perhaps they got their shoegazer bands mixed up) that I'm tempted to say is actually better than a lot of the original. Next most striking is Ms John Soda's \"Solid Ground\", a sunny progress of sine blips, pizzicato strings, vocals, and sparse drumming that works the songbased accessibility angle as well as Lali Puna and the Notwist do. Elsewhere, Ulrich Schnauss redeems himself with a motorik workup to some floatby vocals and stunning drum shifts. Styrofoam gives us a drum program and an emo ballad (this is a good thing), Manual concocts something that sounds like Slowdive covered by smoothjazz enthusiasts (this, too), and Komëit dresses up as the Kings of Convenience (we'll have to think on that one). Plus, Solvent teases us with the instrumental for a track from his forthcoming electro vocal project. Any dissipation of faith in Morr that occurs during disc one is obliterated. Begin with exploration analogy, end with pun: Morr, Morr, Morr. "}