{"label":" Disco Bruit","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1929/homepage_large.3d01e740.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nanoloop 1.0","text":" Remember Super Mario Land for Game Boy? Man, that shit was fucked up. The music was all crazy and foreignsoundin', Mario resembled a little turd with legs, the villains were funnylooking ripoffs of the villains in the real Mario games, Mario rode in a submarine, and when you got the fireball it bounced all over the friggin' screen (well, all two inches of it, anyway). My point is twofold. One: Super Mario Land really was, in many ways, a subpar addition to an otherwise fine series of sidescrolling video games. Two: those Game Boys sure can make some crazy noises. The latter is the principal upon which Nanoloop operates. A realtime sound synthesis program which fits into a Game Boy and makes loopbased music with its four sound cards, Nanoloop is a videogamenerdturnedmusicnerd's dream come true. And in case you were wondering, yes, it really can make some pretty interesting music. Basically a $15 advertisement for the Nanoloop program, Disco Bruit's Nanoloop 1.0 compilation consists of fourteen tracks composed with the program. But while there are a few winners, it's still a pretty lackluster example of what's possible with the program. AGF/DLay's \"Still Eatin'\" is a dark, foreboding track that manages to sound very little like its source. It creeps along through murky ambience, slowly building in intensity with percussive blips occasionally cutting through the tension. Felix Kubin takes the exact opposite approach with \"Ich Traume Nur in Super8,\" crafting nothing less than traditional video game music: the kind you'll swear you've already heard a thousand times, no doubt the theme to that one level in that game with the shooting things. Blectum from Blechdom manage to retain their selfassured goofiness, perfectly replicating their personality on \"Burbanked,\" even as they use nothing but simple tones. It's an amusing track though, like much of the duo's work, it may be a bit too repetitive for its own good. Bruno & Michet Are Smiling's \"Everyday Bodymarket\" is a hilarious take on hardcore punk, with shrieking vocals, cheap synth melodies in place of guitars and machinegun styleeffects in place of quick drum rolls. Stock, Hausen & Walkman's \"Pillion Passenger\" is pretty solid, alternating between a pulsing gurgle that almost resembles a driving house bassline and abstract tones that remind me of Nobukazu Takemura's sparsest moments. There are some quality tracks here, but eventually one can't help but ask: would this be at all interesting if I didn't know it all came out of a Game Boy? In many cases, the answer is a definite no. Oddly enough, most of the really weak moments actually come from the bigger names. Merzbow contributes what I can safely call one of his most painfully repetitive tracks in recent memory. For \"nloopcbn,\" Pita piles an unheard of number of static tracks on top of one another, then plops a whole bunch of goofy, samesounding, gonowhere loops on top. Perhaps most telling is Oliver Wittchow's \"Fragment,\" which places electronic farts atop a pretty, ambient pattern made up warm, repeated tones (not unlike those that appear in much of the recent laptop work of Jim O'Rourke). At one minute and 25 seconds in, the piece cuts off, because (according to the liner notes) the DAT broke. Unprofessional? Maybe. Silly, even? Sure. But then this is music made on effin' Game Boys for Christ's sake! And that's the beauty of Nanoloop (the program) and the problem with Nanoloop (the compilation) all wrapped up in one tight package. As a musical instrument, it is completely devoid of pretension. After all, how seriously can anyone take sounds coming out of an 8bit handheld video game system? It's a simple program the kind capable of making cool sounds in almost anyone's hands. That's right, you and I are just as capable of making interesting sounds and patterns with Nanoloop as the world's most accomplished musicians. And so, while there are a few worthwhile tracks here, my suggestion to you is this: save your fifteen bucks, dig through your childhood closet for your longneglected electronic friend, go pick up the program, and start making some video game music of your own. "}