{"label":" Palm","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1938/homepage_large.d8c39f73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nortec Collective: Tijuana Sessions, Vol. 1","text":" For those in the U.S., Tijuana has always had a sketchy reputation. Located on the far west coast of Mexico, just across the border from San Diego, the city became popular as a den of iniquity during the Prohibition era. Even today Californian teens ventures in droves over to the huge strip of bars and clubs on Revolucion Avenue, to take advantage of the 18andup drinking age. Of course, in the last decade or so Tijuana has become known for its maquiladoras, touted as the successful model for modernization under NAFTA: factories in which electronic components and other materials are assembled by cheap labor and then shipped back to the States dutyfree. But the city has hardly shed the dangerous aura of la frontera a fact probably best symbolized in the 1994 murder of presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio as he was stumping for votes there. The Nortec Collective make every effort to show another, more artistic side of Tijuana, separate from debauchery and thug life. Yet it's hard not to imagine even the drunken touristas and narco bosses getting down to the raucous Nortec style that's been created. As legend has it, Pepe Mogt first began thinking about a connection between techno and traditional Mexican music while at a wedding listening to norteño, a form of folk music played on accordions, tubas, guitars and different types of drums. The polyrhythmic flair of the percussion and the accompanying brass lines make for a festive, paradelike air, and the sense of kitsch it invokes means the music is only popular in the north of Mexico. It's mostly favored by adults the youth aren't as into the traditionalism. But Mogt had other ideas. Together with his friend Jorge Ruiz (soon to be his partner in techno act Fussible), they collected outtakes from norteño studio sessions and began to fuse the samples with electronica. They got with a group of friends, all of whom were soon to have their own projects, and began to distribute tapes of the newlymade music at parties and clubs. The story is old news, of course some of these tracks were recorded as far back as '99, and in the following two years spread like wildfire from Tijuana's student population to the homes of just about anybody who'd ever moved their feet to dance. Thus, the Nortec phenomenon began, named alternately for the Norte of Mexico, or for the norteño music it came from. The Collective eventually caught the interest of Island Records' Chris Blackwell, who released The Tijuana Sessions, Vol. 1 on his Palm Pictures boutique label. Absent the hype from features in Time magazine and elsewhere, it's easier to see that Nortec is popular first and foremost because it's damn good dance music. Bostich kicks off the set with \"Polaris,\" his international hit. It's interesting that he's considered the godfather of the Nortec crowd, because his songs are the farthest removed from what is conventionally considered 'danceable' techno. Digitally modified accordion static and tuba blurts bring a strong Latin vibe to the mix, soon augmented by crashing conga rhythms and keyboard hum. The marching band atmosphere is preserved despite the electronic elements, making for a solid opener. Fussible come next with \"Casino Soul,\" sliding in on a bank of synthesizers and following with sharp 70s horn riffs. The catchy thrust of the bongo beats reminds me of the enthusiasm of Dubtribe Sound System's organic house. Despite the emphasis on their Mexican heritage, the Collective rests, for the most part, firmly in the house music tradition; it's just that their use of live instruments and polyrhythmic breakdowns add fresh flavor to the club scene. PaxF3ptica's \"and L\" (nice pun) descends into the submerged bass and synthsonar of deep house, but the highpitched percussive rumble on top casts it all into beautiful contrast. Likewise, Plankton Man gives us \"Elemento N,\" whose meandering intro suddenly coalesces into a driven progressive house number laced with solemn, noirish guitar work. It's a smart compilation, careful to keep the listening side of the spectrum happy as well. Clorofila slows the pace just a bit with \"Cantamar '72,\" as the sound of waves washes between the stereo channels. The chillout atmosphere is deceiving, though, and before you know it the bass and drums drop into a sexy funk groove. Terrestre takes it one step further on \"El Lado Oscuro de Mi Compadre,\" as an army of percussion samples rise up and clash together in a collage worthy of DJ Shadow. It's a strangely tense, claustrophobic piece for the compilation, far from the melancholy musings that Fernando Corona's becoming more known for recently as Murcof. All the better that he also offers up one of the classic dance cuts on the sampler, \"Norteño de Janeiro.\" I challenge you vocoderphobes out there to convince me that the joyous, slightly wistful vocals here don't make for the most perfectly sublime chorus.The Tijuana Sessions grows on you until you realize that, beyond all the hype, these guys are making innovative dance music worth getting excited about. There may be a few missteps, as with Hiperboreal's \"Tijuana for Dummies,\" whose condescending title doesn't do much to make up for the mid90s tribal techno stylings it rehashes. And on \"No Liazi Jaz,\" Plankton Man makes the mistake of coating his horn lines in ultrasynthesized, EZ listening syrup. But the suggestions of retro atmosphere throughout the disc, hidden here and there in the melodies, aren't much of a problem. The Nortec artists are hinting at the relationship between past and future, one articulated now in the present between their music and the norteño and banda sinaloense it springs from. They've become so popular on the dancefloor because they make music tailored to dancers, full of progressions and careful breaks that guide the body. Though the producers have their own label in Mil Records, Nortec has become more than just a musical collective these days: fashion designers are forming futuristic Nortec rave clothes by updating traditional rural garb, urban artists are tagging the city in their own image through Nortecderived stencils, and the government of Mexico has even sponsored a forum connecting the musicians with eager students of the aesthetic. Nortec is getting mixed into DJ sets abroad as well, particularly in Germany where the polka origins of norteño still resonate. This is true cultural syncretism, the ideal genesis of new art out of the reverence of old, and especially important in its selfreliance. The maquiladoras are now moving slowly but steadily to China to take advantage of the $.20  $.25 per hour average working wage (versus Mexico's $1.50) so much for the permanent benefits of free trade! In the meantime, check out the Nortec sound: it's more vital than whatever Eighteenth Street Lounge is pumping out, and you're not likely to come across as the annoying World Beat kid on your block. If you're interested in the evolution of electronic dance music, this is not a style to let slip by. "}