{"label":" Plain","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1939/homepage_large.eaee7b04.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Various Artists","title":"You Can Never Go Fast Enough","text":" We pitiful popmongers have weathered all manner of organizingprinciple diversification schemes for works by that most inconsistent concern, the Various Artists: the fake rock opera, the real rock opera tribute, the fake film soundtrack, the fake band tribute, etc. Now we must bear witness to the fakesoundtracktributetoarealfilmthatalreadyhadasoundtrackthatwasn'treleased, a plight lubricated (depending on your level of boredom with these acts) by the promise of unreleased recordings by Will Oldham, Wilco, Mark Eitzel, and Sonic Youth, as well as some previously available (yet absurdly labeled \"rare\" on the disc's wrapper) tracks by Cat Power, Roscoe Holcomb, Leadbelly and Sandy Bull. Being fakesoundtracktributed is Monte Hellman's 1971 film TwoLane Blacktop, an uncanny narrative (advertised with the slogan \"The FarOut World of the HighSpeed Scene!\") about bohemian gearheads, a film \"road\" enough to wow the garagebegreased, and existential enough to intrigue the coffeeshopponytailed. Anyone who knows anything about the incognito monopolies with which car companies destroyed railroads, or about how our Interstate system was based on Hitler's autobahn (not to mention his reich's use of film to glorify peoplemachines), might figure a libertinist car movie more counterintuitive than countercultural, especially when one considers that the \"easy rider/on the road\" motif quickly blossomed into Dukes of Hazzard/Fast and the Furious fetishism. However, TwoLane Blacktop constantly entertains and surprises. At the beginning of the film, James Taylor and The Beach Boys' Dennis Wilson seem miscast in such carporn, clutching big sticks, talking about cleaning rods and points, and declaring in a diner parking lot how there's \"a lot of muscle here tonight.\" Soon, though, their machofemininity contrasts interestingly with a drifting girl (tired of their talk of cars' rear ends, she says, \"I don't see anybody paying attention to my rear end!\") and a suave statusquoppie running from his life. Their endless race, their strangely communal competition, their implausible line readings, and the ethereality of their lusts result in the film's barely resembling America, or Earth. At some points, TwoLane Blacktop plays like the car film that Kubrick would have made (if he wasn't making A Clockwork Orange at the time). And its appeal lasts: elements of TwoLane Blacktop pervade later films as variegated as Duel, the Cannonball Run series, White Men Can't Jump, Bottle Rocket, and Y Tu Mamá También. Now onto why this comp is so conceptually mangled: the film already had plenty of music. \"Hit the Road Jack\" predictably plays in a grimy spoon, and The Doors and Kristofferson surface elsewise. Also, Taylor and Wilson's insanely focused characters went without music, intentionally, preferring the roar of their engine. The Girl (that's her name in the credits) sings her own versions of songs. The only character with a constant soundtrack is \"GTO\", the statusquoppie; he plays plenty of country and bluegrass, so this CD's suggesting other roots music is odd. The liner notes say that the project's organizer wanted this to be \"what the characters heard while driving,\" which might explain why these contemporary artists contributed either vintagesounding ditties or (why oh why couldn't Sonic Youth and Mark Eitzel have imagined what they'd have sounded like in 1971?) abstract noiseclusters. So if you'd never heard the high lonesomeness of Sandy Bull, Leadbelly, or Roscoe Holcomb, or the previously released Calexico, Giant Sand, and Cat Power songs, I guess they'd be revelations; if you know them, this is awkward, like a lovemix from a new squeeze bearing songs the last three squeezes gave you. (The Girl has Chan Marshall bangs, and behavior, and she sings \"Satisfaction\" in the film, so trotting out Cat Power's greatthefirsttime, annoyingthenthtime cover of The Stones' oftmuzacked gem is at least warranted.) So: New stuff! Will Oldham teams with Alan Licht (the last third of whose An Emotional Memoir of Martha Quinn should be required reading for popnerds) to deliver a rehash of his oftbootlegged live favorite cover \"Don't Cry for Me Argentina\". After Oldham sets up the spike, Licht reads James Taylor's best lines from the film for five minutes. (Note: Will's muttering waveandwaxobsessed role as The Surfer in Slitch is clearly modeled after Taylor's muttering oilandoctane obsessed role as The Driver.) Willophiles would do much better to skip this and track down the latest volume of Louisville Is for Lovers, on which Will covers Lucinda Williams' \"Something About What Happens When We Talk\" that wrenching cover had me afraid to leave the house, wearing a hairnet, and taping peppermints to my collarbones, whereas \"Don't Cry, Driver\" just had me typing cusswords into the crappy search engine at Netflix. Wilco offer \"Old Maid\", an acoustic guitar, backgrounded piano, and brushdrum retro affair that recalls lackadaisical Dylan or Prine (another oftbootlegged live favorite). It's fun to hear Tweedy play the geezer, but this is Wilco on cruise control, which violates every rule of TwoLane Blacktop. Alvarius B (of Sun City Girls) contributes a song that, even though B's career predates David Pajo's, perfectly mimics Papa M. The German ragaist (I told you this disc was a contradiction in terms wrapped in a contradiction in terms) Steffen BashoJunghans delivers a megasoothing slide pastiche. Marc Eitzel teams with his sometime wurlitzist Marc Capelle to make a messy cackleandgrind soundscape more akin to the ominous Wild at Heart (another film that homages TwoLane Blacktop). In other news: Suntanama betray their blackoak bombast with some mellow zylophonic postcockrock, Charalambides inflict their heaviest vampireambience, and Sonic Youth fucks around with pedals for six Cousteauian minutes (really, they should label their stuff either Sonic Youth A or B, so you know if you're getting a rock band or Harry PartchversusSchoenbergatRadioShack). Roy Montgomery rocks the whole record with his unchanging 12+ minute phaserfest \"2LB\" which summons Slint, Ween, and countless Bootsy Collins spacefreakouts. This track alone best befits the glorious ending of TwoLane Blacktop, which to this day puzzles those who wank to aftermarket mags, even more than Harry Dean Stanton's cameo as a dejected homosexual hitchhiker. "}