{"label":" Rawkus","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1945/homepage_large.c5d741ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Chennault","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Soundbombing III","text":" \"I miss Rawkus,\" I caught myself mumbling as I leafed through vintage Mos Def singles at Amoeba Records. Once upon a time (or 1997, to be exact), in a metaphorical doublewide far, far away, Rawkus stormed into my musical trailer park, yanked that softcore gangsta shit off my decks, and dropped some of the illest, freshest sounds since EPMD and Brand Nubians rocked the mic. Remember Blackstar? Company Flow? Pharoahe Monch? Sure you do. And so what if Rawkus hasn't released a decent fulllength in the past two years? So what if their business plan faltered and they were forced to enter into some sort of shady agreement with Universal? The sentimentalist in me wanted to believe that there was still enough NYC underground magic for Rawkus to reclaim its throne, or at least produce another headnoddin' classic. So when they came knockin' with the latest addition in their previously excellent Soundbombing series, I plopped down my 15 bones and held my breath, hoping to be reassured that Rawkus was still a viable, relevant hiphop label. Unfortunately, Soundbombing III is about as reassuring as spotting your girlfriend in a porn getting gangbanged by AIDS patients. And the worst part is that, not only does Rawkus seemingly systematically undercut its own credibility, but also the credibility of the other formerly 'conscious' emcees that helped propel it to prominence in the late 90s. QTip, Common, Talib Kweli, Pharaoh Monch, the Roots, and Mos Def are all dragged down into the heavily commercialized inferno with some of the worst performances of their respective careers. The Mos Def track \"Freak Daddy\" is the most disappointing here. I'm not even sure where to begin describing how godawful this track is, but I will mention that Destiny's Child's Beyoncé Knowles, of all people, shares the songwriting credits. And it's even a subpar outing for Beyoncé. To start with, the production is the illbegotten marriage of pointlessly dissonant, overthetop rock with the stuttered, pimpswaggering stylings of the everpopular Rockwilder. Mos also makes the unfortunate choice of eschewing his previously conscious, poetic lyrics in favor of a more materialistic, straightforward style. At one point he raps, \"Make way when my truck rolls through/ Or get rolled over like you was new road.../ Act wrong and get blblblasted on.\" Ugh! If Mos can't come any stronger than this, I suggest that he either retire from the hiphop game or hire himself a ghost writer. Rumor has it that he's placed his hiphop career on hold while he finishes a new movie with Marky Mark (of Funky Bunch fame). I applaud that decision because, frankly, the Funky Bunch have delivered stronger, more lyrically onpoint songs than \"Freak Daddy.\" Fellow Blackstar alumnus DJ HiTek contributes \"Crew Deep,\" a surprisingly understated 70sfunk number that's really just a relaxed retread of Sugar Hill's \"Rapper's Delight.\" It's pleasant enough until you realize that, while Missy Elliot is billed as the guest emcee, HiTek merely uses a sample from last year's hit, \"Get Ur Freak On,\" to augment the chorus. And this isn't the only case of blatantly false and manipulative advertising. Although he's listed alongside Styles P. from the Ruff Ryders, Pharaoh Monch only graces the mic for the brief chorus of \"My Life\" and leaves the verses for Styles P, who's nowhere near being in the same league. \"What Lies Beneath\" finds former Tribe Called Quest emcee Qtip further dissolving into a halfassed parody of his former self. Although his rhymes aren't quite as jiggafied as on Amplified, his thoughts are random, his flow is stale, and his voice carries a downtrodden inflection that seems to betray his newfound apathy and cynicism. Listening to this song was like watching Muhammad Ali fight Larry Holmes: you shut your eyes and pray that the man retires before he further damages himself, but you know there's too much money involved for that to happen. Though I hate to concede anything to this album, I should state that not everything here is complete shit. Jonell's \"Round and Round (Remix)\" retains the light and lovely Spanish guitar line of the original, and although the verses supplied by Method Man, Kool G. Rap, and Pharaoh Monch aren't exactly revelatory, they are adequate. And R.A. The Rugged Man contributes the album's finest song with the oldskool nostalgia track \"On the Block (Golden Era).\" As R.A. references everyone from Slick Rick to the Juice Crew, you find yourself wishing for just a little taste of that oldschool charm. But really, you're just wishing Rawkus hadn't pawned off their name and credibility for the giant glistening crackrock of pop suckerdom. You're just wishing that you hadn't bought this bummer of an album in the first place and forever tarnished your image of your hiphop heroes. And finally, you're just wishing someone would just turn this shit off. "}