{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1954/homepage_large.25b3ed30.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Left of the Dial: Dispatches from the 80s Underground","text":" Every night when my pregnant wife falls to sleep, I lean over and strap a pair of headphones to her swollen belly and queue up hours of music to pipe gently into the womb where my unborn child gestates. The program changes every night: The Beatles for lessons on love, Led Zeppelin for truth, Merzbow for fortitude. But every Sunday at the time when MTV used to broadcast 120 Minutes, I throw in the kind of music collected on Rhino's Left of the Dial, for just one reason: to turn my child into an insufferable hipster. The music on this set influenced most everything Pitchfork slobbers on today. The mandate of Left of the Dial to showcase anything that fit on college radio in the 80s means you'll find everything from punk and postpunk to synthpop and dreampop; it features early indie rock in all of its shades of amateurish enthusiasm and substance abuse. It covers most of the bands namechecked during the postpunk resurgence from Gang of Four to Throbbing Gristle to Joy Division and demonstrates how Bad Brains, Minor Threat, and The Minutemen expanded the punk world while The Replacements, R.E.M. and Beat Happening laid the groundwork for indie rock and Sonic Youth, Pixies, and Jane's Addiction did the same for 1990s grunge and alternative. But that's not all: We also get the moody atmospherics of The Church, Echo & The Bunnymen, and The Cure, and the synthpop stylings of Japan, Depeche Mode, and Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark. Left of the Dial even has goth. And industrial. And, um, Faith No More. The set's compilers settled on 82 bands, and their selections are comprehensive and sometimes surprising. You don't get Devo, but they pick a Wall of Voodoo song and it's not \"Mexican Radio\". Hüsker Dü is better remembered today for their Bob Mouldpenned tracks, but it's Grant Hart's \"Don't Want to Know If You Are Lonely\" that's included here. The box is not without dirges or drags I forgot that Bauhaus' \"Bela Lugosi's Dead\" was so damn long but the producers don't skimp on upbeat singles and jangly guitars. If Left of the Dial makes you nostalgic, it's more likely to evoke the weightlessness of youth than to cajole a lump in your throat. But you don't judge a compilation by its hits alone, and it doesn't take long to find the set's weakness: sequencing. Rhino may have the best licensing lawyers in the business, but the tracklist came straight from a committee. Left of the Dial sounds anonymously plotless, and the second disc is littered with awkward segues: Ultravox's \"Vienna\" chokes the momentum from The Pretenders' \"Message of Love\", and the murderous chorus on Sisters of Mercy's \"This Corrosion\" steamrollers poor old XTC. (And who ends a disc with \"Senses Working Overtime\", anyway?) What's worse, slogging through Ministry's \"Stigmata\" after The Smiths' effusive \"This Charming Man\" is like having your early morning sex shattered by a street cleaner roaring past your window. This kind of sequencing also destroys all sense of context. Normally, it's my job as a reviewer to lecture you about the history of The Dead Milkmen, or write a book report on The Jesus & Mary Chain, or at least explain how Bauhaus became Love and Rockets or Joy Division became New Order but there are too many stories crammed in here, and anyway, when \"Temptation\" comes on, all I think is, \"Wow, this is a really great song.\" The set could also describe the competing narratives of polished synthesizer bands and passiontrumpspractice guitars but that makes no sense either, as the two sides often stay as distant as rival cliques at the high school reunion. Without a guiding principal, the dud tracks sound even weaker: You suspect there was only one person in the room arguing viciously to include Lone Justice's \"Ways to Be Wicked\", The Rain Parade's \"I Look Around\", or Faith No More's \"We Care a Lot\", and that everyone else just relented to shut him up. Although Left of the Dial's liner notes work as a cheat sheet, listening to the albums won't tell you anything about how these genres developed, interrelated, or collapsed; simply knowing the facts doesn't tell you why these songs matter. On the other hand, maybe that's the point. It reminds me of buying Rhino's Beg, Scream & Shout box several years ago and enjoying it without knowing anything about the 1960s R&B; singers whose work it collects. It all just seemed to come from some magical past time when great music poured sui generis out of the radio and everybody dug it. As for the struggles, influences, jagged careers, and sad ends that frame the music... maybe someday I'll read the liner notes. My kid might feel the same way about Left of the Dial and ignore my lectures and nostalgia and just enjoy the songs. And fuck it: If the music holds up, that will probably be for the best. "}