{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1956/homepage_large.538864d9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Children of Nuggets: Original Artyfacts from the Second Psychedelic Era 1976-1996","text":" There is no real definition of a Nugget, which is the first thing you have to realize when approaching Rhino's ongoing series of ridiculously awesome fourdisc compendiums of rock 'n' roll from the fringe of the commercial spectrum. The first two boxes concentrated on the late 1960s, but you'd be hardpressed to find a signature sound on them, as they embody everything from gutpunch garage rock, blueeyed soul, and raging protopunk to frilly gnomesandfaeries whimsy, mod toughness, and acidinduced nightmares. No, if anything, a Nugget is simply a song that got overlooked in its own era and deserves a second look. The compilation titles talk about psychedelic eras, but they seem to delight in muddying up the very definition of psychedelia, and the third volume of the series, Children of Nuggets, is only too happy to make the terminology harder to pin down. First, calling 19761996 the \"Second Psychedelic Era\" is pretty dubious; this music was mostly off the radar during that span and so many other things were happening that it's nearly impossible to wring any kind of narrative out of it. If there's one thing all of these bands had in common, it's that each one of them was responsible for at least one great song. The liner notes try to hold them together like this: \"One characteristic that binds all the groups compiled here was that they looked back to and drew inspiration from earlier times,\" but that merely describes every single recording artist who ever lived, even if a lot of them didn't do it consciously. So what we wind up with after all the semantic wrangling is 100 mostly unknown songs by a bunch of artists most people have never heard of, which is, of course, the appeal of the whole enterprise to begin with. It's not going out on a limb to say that by far the most famous song here is \"There She Goes\" by the La's, but no artist is especially famous. The biggest are XTC in their Dukes of Stratosphear guise, the Posies, Primal Scream, the Soft Boys, Flamin' Groovies, Teenage Fanclub, and the Smithereens, some of which are known for music that doesn't fit the overall tone of this set. The Dukes of Stratosphear kick off Disc One with \"Vanishing Girl\", which is the exact opening I would have chosen had I compiled this box. The twinkling guitar intro sets an immediate otherworldly tone, and everything else about this song is perfect: the tight harmonies, melodic bassline, huge chorus. It's been one of my favorite songs since I first heard it years ago, and it's one of the best here. The Dukes essentially a front for XTC to indulge their 60s fetish are one of several acts well worth exploring beyond their contributions here (they also have a song on Disc Two). There are too many revelatory tracks here to run them all down, but I'll quickly hit a few highlights. The Nashville Ramblers' \"The Trains\" is a gorgeous, heartbreaking piece of melodydrenched guitar pop with a sense of longing and rich darkness that would have done the Zombies proud. The Spongetones give the Hollies a run for it with \"(My Girl) Maryanne\", a big harmonystuffed song that unfortunately missed the British Invasion boat by a couple of decades. Representing the rougher, more garageoriented side of things are the Last, whose \"L.A. Explosion\" is a raw guitar grind, and Laika & the Cosmonauts, who turn in a crazy psychedelic surf medley of the themes from Vertigo and Psycho. The only genuine scene represented here is L.A.'s mid80s Paisley Underground, a loose cluster of jangly, melodic bands that drew their inspiration from the Byrds and other American folkrock. Rain Parade stills sounds vulnerable and heavenly all these years later, while Steve Wynn's Dream Syndicate checks in with \"Tell Me When It's Over\", a song that lets the guitars loose in a house of reverb. The Three O'Clock, Green on Red, and the Bangles (then known as the Bangs) all check in as well, leaving Mazzy Star precursor Opal as the only major scene participant missing in action (apparently, this was due to licensing issues). Another scene that would have been worth exploring is New Zealand's, which centered around the Flying Nun label, but that country only gets one track, in the Chills' \"Pink Frost\". Granted, it's a fantastic track, full of slinky drums and ominous guitars, but New Zealand's South Island was a Nuggets paradise in the 80s, and it's a shame the compilers couldn't get more. If I can geek a little further on the missing material tip, it's telling that compiler Alec Palau laments the absence of the Television Personalities in the liners, because they really ought to be here. My other wishlist bands include 14 Iced Bears, Chameleons, and Cleaners From Venus, but it's tough to fault the final track list too much. I'm also curious if Rhino plans a set that visits the years 19701975, which have been left unexplored by all three volumes, outside of a couple stray tracks. They could start with Crabby Appleton's \"Go Back\", end with Spirit's \"Fresh Garbage\", and there'd be plenty to fill the middle with. There's no real guarantee that people who loved the first two Nuggets sets will love this one as well the era that Lenny Kaye originally documented had a certain spirit of madcap adventure and experimentation, whereas the rebellion here is often tempered by reverence. Still, it's not a bad bet, and fans of Elephant 6 and modern indie rockers like the Shins and Mazarin will find plenty to love here, while the compilers cite the Strokes and the Hives as \"Grandchildren of Nuggets\". I'd say it's worth the price for any serious of rock 'n' roll nerd in general, lavished as it is with typically extensive liners, pages upon pages of photos and album art, and informative track notes. Who knows where the Nuggets franchise will go next? As long as they keep unearthing mindblowing songs like the Jigsaw Seen's \"My Name Is Torn\", I'll be listening. "}