{"label":" Select Cuts","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1961/homepage_large.2886f451.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Meteosound","text":" The great god Dub is a mighty and vengeful god. Even if you have served him devoutly, his celestial countenance can so swiftly and capriciously turn on you. It takes sustained and meaningful sacrifice to keep you in Dub's favor. Look at Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, once one of Dub's most devoted acolytes, now reduced to a whibbling mangle of his former self. In order for Mad Professor to sustain his devotions and to avert Dub's punishing neglect, Tracey Thorn's body had to be separated from her head the resulting track, \"No Protection,\" is unquestionably superb, but poor Tracey's never quite been the same since. Some artists just aren't willing to do what it takes to fulfill their duties. Look at XTC, whose dub project, Explode Together, was nothing more than a clanking jumble of sound. The once fearsome Groove Corporation, the former motor behind Billy Ray Martin's Electribe 101 project, now fumble about remixing Ennio Morricone and Ella Fitzgerald's version of \"Sunshine of Your Love\" for feckless triphop twats. How long before such dolts attempt a dub of Frank Sinatra's \"Mrs. Robinson\"? Dub will smite them sore in their minuscule loins for sending The Chairman's \"doobiedoos\" into the chambers of Dub's duplicitous handmaiden, Echo! Now, Dub doesn't shrink from allowing his worshippers to indulge in a little bit of fusion. Moritz von Oswald has formulated his own very sacrosanct liturgy by combining dub with DetroitBerlin techno which has resulted in the consistently astounding Rhythm and Sound and Burial Mix setups. But it's in Jamaica where the ruffest fusion takes place. Anyone who's partaken of the Now Thing service can attest to the orgiastic writhing that Dub, in his dancehall avatar, can inspire. The contributors to Meteosound, however, align themselves more with von Oswald than to Sly and Lenky. Select Cuts has previously issued the two volumes of remixes of the Blood and Fire reissue label, allowing Leftfield, Don Letts, and the Orb to have their wicked way with original vintage dub cuts such as Glen Brown and King Tubby's \"Lambsbread Dub,\" Scientist's \"Step It Up,\" and Keith Hudson's \"I'm Alright.\" Select Cuts have joined with Daniel Meteo, the organizer of the Meteosound dub nights at Berlin's Maria Am Ostbahnhof club to produce a concise overview of the current state of European dubbery.  Vienna's Sugar B lays down the first slab of righteousness with an edit of his \"Authentic Dub Disco,\" with which he stokes smoky flames of herbal wisdom from a single horn sample of ancient provenance. Tikiman follows on with the appropriately vital \"The Sound\" which rides a steppa rhythm with a direct connection to the Orb's skanky \"Blue Room.\" After such historically informed takes on the style, it's up to a slew of laptoppers to show how to worship Dub in a glitch style. \"Tetris\" Tom Thiel, a member of Orbaffiliates Sun Electric, takes a bunch of Rechenzentrum soundfiles and scuffs them up into a sickeningly coherent megamix. Thiel then joins with Meteo under the Bus alias for \"Treasure Island,\" in which a dirty bass line and lazy marimba force dancehall queens to mix with chillout beach bums. Not content with forcing two antithetical groups to mingle, Bus then remix Dntel's glitchaddled \"Fear of Corners\" and thereby make it compulsory for all hipsters to imagine themselves in Gorgon dreadlocks and jamming in a Niyabinghi drum session. The presence of Thomas Fehlmann (Dr. Alex Patterson's studio partner) confirms the Orb importance as the most visible torch bearer for Dub during the wilderness years of the early 1990's. With \"Seerosengiessen\" Fehlmann does not disgrace either himself or the good doctor. In fact, the drifting bliss of \"Seerosengiessen\" might finally encourage Alex to sever all ties with the tiresome Goatrance cobblers of System 7. While frequent Dubbotherers Manasseh and the Equalizer reach deep back into the fountain of vintage dub for their congaandwoodblockdriven \"King of the Land,\" the A/B vs. Mina contribution, \"A to Dub\" resumes the indie rock dub action as A/B unearth previously hidden science by combining Mina's math rock with an update of King Jammy's Casiotone digital style. Fehlmann returns with quirkpop starlette Barbara Morgenstern for \"Shazzi Riddem,\" a surprisingly splendid combination of the Chemical Brothersindub and \"Superstition\"era Stevie Wonder.  Meteosound closes with Jah Meek and Rootsman's \"Beautiful World,\" a confident homage to the prophetic heart of dub. With all of the power of one of Sizzla's sermons Jah Meek and Rootsman make a simple statement about the beauty that surrounds us all, movingly and gorgeously. No contributor to Meteosound need fear the wrath of the almighty Dub. In fact, I'd wager that the god will fill each of these artists' crocus bags with the finest Lambsbread for outlining how diverse and faithful Dub devotions can be and how, even in the antiCaribbean of Berlin, you can fulfill your sata duties with onelove and obeah. "}