{"label":" Sequence","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/1962/homepage_large.a73b42a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Hreha","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Scratchology: Mixed by the X-ecutioners","text":" Back in about 7th grade or so, a friend tried to impress me with the depth of his musical knowledge, urging me to check out Aerosmith's version of \"Walking the Dog\". Apparently this boy genius had been raiding Mom and Dad's record cabinet and discovered the percussive, muted guitar breaks at the end of each chorus as those future Behind the Music posterboys tried desperately to be as funky as Rufus Thomas. His conclusion? That Joe Perry had invented scratching. Now, I don't know what happened to this kid after high school, but I think it's safe to assume he's not a logic professor. Still, maybe he was more prescient than I'm giving him credit for, considering that within a year of his prophecy, Run D.M.C. and the toxic twins' cover of \"Walk This Way\" dominated MTV and radio alike. Wait, come on anyone who's even remotely aware of hiphop knows scratching ain't scratching unless there's a turntable involved. Not surprisingly, Aerosmith are nowhere to be found on Scratchology, the latest mix CD in a series that previously put the Beat Junkies' DJ Babu, Dan the Automator and Slum Village to the mixtape challenge. This time around, Sequence aims to outline the history of scratching with tracks selected and mixed by that highestprofile of turntablist crews, the Xecutioners. Moving from 1981 to the present, in roughly chronological order, the Xmen sprinkle spoken testimonials in with impeccably arranged rare tracks and standardbearers, giving the disc an aural documentary feel that, though nowhere near comprehensive (and it's not intended to be), is as enlightening as it is enjoyable. After an adroit Xmen introduction, they get right to work with the first scratchoriented song ever recorded, \"The Adventures of Grandmaster Flash on the Wheels of Steel\" the best possible point of entry with Flash's sleightofhand effortlessly turning \"Rapper's Delight\" into \"Another One Bites the Dust\" and back again, like a hiphop David Copperfield. From there, it's a short ride through the 80s, touching on both the ubiquitous and the ultrarare. Herbie Hancock's electrojazz masterpiece \"Rock It\" once renowned more for its video's creepy robots stands as testimony to the scratching skills of Grand Mixer DXT. Mixmaster Gee's \"Like This (Full & Fresh)\" is just the contrary; according to Xman Rob Swift, \"A lot of people don't even know this record exists,\" increase Scratchology's value tenfold. The 90s section runs a little heavy on backpatting with solo tracks by Swift and fellow Xecutioner Roc Raida, along with several more by various combinations of their contemporary crews, The Beat Junkies and Invisibl Skratch Piklz. Of these, Raida's \"I'll Kick Ya Ass\" definitely fulfills its promise in a backtobasics nod to some of the disc's earlier cuts. Also representing for that decade: a Pete Rock mix of Public Enemy's \"Shut Em Down\" and Gang Starr's \"DJ Premier in Deep Concentration,\" two fine examples from scratchmasters who came to prominence in the late 80s and chose to work through most of the 90s with emcees, rather than banding together with fellow turntablists. The Xmen even throw in \"Premier's Xecution\" one of the few redeeming moments from last year's Built for Scratch a DJ equivalent of the posse cut that sounds much fresher far, far away from that record's Linkin Park lovein. If you thought, as I did, that the Xecutioners had ditched their integrity for five minutes on MTV, don't count them out just yet: let this bit of DJ history as heard through their ears serve as a statement of intent, and hope their next record of original material delivers substantial evidence. "}