{"label":" Sonore","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1971/homepage_large.6d7ff98a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Japanese Independent Music","text":" It's an orgy something that may not have been designed for mass consumption, but is nevertheless creating and recreating at a rapid pace that rejects even the most sincere attempts at canonization. The members of this party interact and exchange various phenomena without a shred of cautious foresight, and what results is more fruitful and volatile and reactive than any one elements could ever have been alone. I imagine the streets in Koenji must be crawling with taste police on the lookout for illegal crosspollination and conceptridden, incestuous marriages; that the kids who are voluntarily dropping out of the material world for riskier exhibitions must live in constant paranoia that their night lives will be used against them when the numbercrunching begins. Or worse that nobody will listen when it's their turn to play. But unbeknownst to their more conservative brethren, who would settle for the Occidental Tourism of Western Pop as scripture, these kids, cousins and artful clergymen are making something new under the Empire of the Sun. This is not manufactured, and it's certainly not criminal, but it is, in fact, quite extraordinary. These wildly informed noise shamans, in the age of supposed information sharing, have beaten American democratic spirit at its own game. I'm talking about unselfish art and the exchange of ideas. I'm talking about today's Japanese independent music. Okay, so maybe I romanticize this stuff a bit. But it's not for any love of melodrama, as I can assure that I enjoy reading about someone's obscure fetishes about as much as you do. No, the musicians working underground back east pique my interest mostly due to renegade originality and purity of expression in the face of drastic underexposure. For example, when I heard the story of drummer Tatsuya Yoshida's first rehearsal with his then unnamed band, wherein the guitarist didn't show up and he decided to go with only himself and a bassist for the subsequent 15 years as Ruins, I took notice. Or, when I read about how, after more than a decade of praise from the alternative press, Boredoms frontman Yamatsuka Eye still doesn't think his band plays well enough, doesn't understand why people call his music \"noise,\" and is constantly striving for the next new sound, I was struck. These are stories of people who refuse to accept the mundane, practical or given. It's easy to romanticize a scene that offers no guarantees of fame, and yet whose members are as in love with their art as any detached fanatic.Japanese Independent Music is an ambitious undertaking by the French label Sonore. Although there have been samplers of experimental Japanese music before, it's never been easy for Western audiences to find information about the music. Sonore head Franck Stofer packaged this album with a book of the same title that's a virtual godsend to anyone who was ever frustrated trying to find out about a band like Ruins. The book is an encyclopedic reference, with an extensive, alphabetical listing of hundreds of fringe Japanese bands/artists, featuring full discographies, essays on various subscenes, and even an appendix with label addresses and contact info. And best of all, it's in English, unlike the first Frenchonly edition. I'll let you find it on your own and you will, if this is your bag but for now, let's talk about the most important stuff: the music. The CD features tracks from 18 of the most important contributors to Japan's independent music scene. It covers a lot of ground, conceptually speaking: modernclassical, avantprog, IDM, neotrad Japanese folk, noise, punk basically, anything John Zorn has been preaching since he started his intercontinental commute in the 80s. It's a much more varied collection than others such as Bad Sun Rising or Tokyo Flashback, and perhaps most comparable to the excellent doubledisc Virgin UK release Cosmic Kurushi Monsters: Tokyo Invasion Vol. 1 from 1996. This stuff goes out on a limb, and be forewarned that a little artistic levity is required before entering. Standout tracks for me include Gaji's \"Trippin' Under a Changin' Sphere\" and Hoppy Kamiyama's \"Fantasm B.\" Gaji is an experimental punk band from Tokyo who actually started out as kind of an eclectic mix of Wire, krautrock and Boredoms, but here sound much more focused and traditionally wound. The band's female vocalist, Hasegawa Yuko, reminds me of a less girly Patty Donahue, but the band's sound here is fullon aggressive, totally assured polypunk think Minutemen crossed with 80s King Crimson. Too many reference points? How about moving on to Kamiyama, and about a dozen more? Hoppy Kamiyama's tune is a great representation of many of his favorite musical outlets: Bartokinfluenced chamber classical, horror soundtracks, Rock in Opposition, and no wave. The guy has seemingly been around forever, and covers a lot of bases in his 4\\xBD minutes on this CD. If you never have the fortune of hearing some of his work, you'll probably run into him indirectly when investigating the scene anyway because he's head of the excellent God Mountain label (Pugs, KoenjiHyakkei, Optical*8, Demi Semi Quaver), as well as producer for dozens of acts elsewhere. He's also worked with Zorn and Maceo Parker in the West, so I wouldn't try to hide from him. Electronic music gets its props here, too, as tracks by Wono Satoru, Yuko Nexus6, Furudate Tetsuo and Nakamura Toshimaru demonstrate that not all of the best new computergenerated madness is coming out of Chicago or Germany. Nakamura's track is straight sinewavey stuff, produced entirely from a mixing board with no inputs. Satoru's \"Allego\" was done using only a phonograph plexus, while Yuko Nexus6's minimalist \"N.S.K.K.\" sounds as if created more from the muse of a computer scientist than an experimental turntable magician. Lest these descriptions sound a bit technical, Furudate's piece brings in a little royal courtyard sturmunddrang to spice up its strains of pounding sheet metal and reverberated signal beacons. I suppose some of this stuff would work well in a Mad Max movie, but I'm just using it to get pumped about going back to work tomorrow. There are some \"big\" names here as well, like Ruins, Keiji Haino and Acid Mothers Temple, but I don't want to bore you with the music the good Fork has been (possibly over)hyping these last few months. Or, it could be that I just don't want to go on like a crazed fan, forcing this stuff down your throat. Instead, here's something I read from an interview with avanthero Oshima Dan: \"I think that Japanese indie music is based on absolutely absurd spirit. I mean, it's built on nothing, it contains no culture.\" On the one hand, I think Dan undersells the impact this music has on its audience, because I can tell you firsthand that whatever the music is built on is certainly weightier than most anything else I've heard. However, he has a point; this is music that is not of a culture, but rather appears to be creating one. Whatever scenes you subscribe to, ask yourself how many of them could remain as vital when even the chance to hear the music was an obstacle. How many could overcome littletono documentation or familiarity with the principal actors involved? Right now, I can only think of one, and if you blink, you could miss it. "}