{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1972/homepage_large.e34bf8e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nice Up the Dance","text":" The Soul Jazz label, in all its endeavors, is far more focused on the joint than the dancefloor not just in terms of \"joint\" being a single slice of beat brilliance, but also as a connective tissue between locales like New York, Jamaica, and London. The label showed that the nexus of early house, hiphop, and postpunk lied in the Bronx with ESG, while last year's A Certain Ratio retrospective inexplicably linked Harlem percussion jams to Manchester's Hacienda club, and how 70s disco boogied into Jamaica on the Hustle! comp. This time around, they focus on a most peculiar connection between two genres American hiphop and Jamaican dancehall proving them to be Siamese twins joined at the hip. The very bedrock of hiphop DJs Kool Herc and Grandmaster Flash are both of Jamaican descent, modeling their turntable setups on the soundclash sound systems of their youth. RunDMC collaborated with albino toaster Yellowman years before pasty burnouts Aerosmith. Stars like Lauryn Hill and KRSOne base hits on dancehall staples. And now dancehall stars like Sean Paul and Shaggy are crossing over into Hot 97's pervasive mix. That the kneejerk response to Shaggy's \"Gunshot\" is of crouching booty shakes is testament to the bass frequencies found here. Spraying a frantic flow over a bouncing beat shot through with Otis Redding samples, there's no trace of his later noxious hit \"It Wasn't Me\". Longtime staples of hiphop DJ sets, Tenor Saw's \"Ring the Alarm\" and Dawn Penn's \"No No No\" are thankfully present, too, concisely showing the connections between the two island sounds. Kenny Dope (of Masters at Work) chops up A Tribe Called Quest for dancehall MC Screechy Dan and hiphop producer J Live swirls an Augustus Pablo sample around a straightahead American head nod. While maintaining a studio shine, dancehall boasts elaborate doublejointed rhythms that drop in and out as the track plays, a changeup seldom found in most radio hits, plying different voices as the beats morph instead of looping a beat ad infinitum. The island patois and fierce flows show the most engaging aspect of dancehall is the vocal textures, be they croaking or nasally clean. The absolute mutant growl by Pompidoo on the primitive \"Synthesizer Voice\" (taking Biz Markie's \"Ah One Two\" tongue buzz to full bloom in '85) is odd as fuck after all, it shared a label with Mantronix and Arthur Russell back in the day. Jumping ahead twenty years, Ward 21 croaks in a flat flow that sounds like Timbaland's phonedin baritone before it gets jacked by a more frantic and brash spit that's lies at the other extreme, cutting between the two throats expertly. The craziest joint, though, is the Missylike bleepbounce of Ms. Thing's \"Get That Money\", in which she raps over a digital dotdash in vocode while men bark back: \"Ladies get that cash and 'ave fun/ Get your face and hair and nails done.\" Even Dr. Dre's \"Next Episode\" makeover of David Axelrod gets a facial with equal aplomb from the UK's Singer Blue on \"If I Know Jah\". Not content to be a mere curatorial comp of dancehall or hiphop, Nice Up the Dance transcends other genretasters with the ease in which it cuts between the two sides, noting all variants of the amalgamation. That every track also works for \"playing doctor\" on the dancefloor makes for a fineass corpus. "}