{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1973/homepage_large.80dbed78.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Various Artists","title":"New York Noise","text":" It's not a political stance per se, but I'm enamored with the idea of music being made by nonmusicians. I fantasize what the music of meek secretaries, overweight bus drivers and Puerto Rican produce stockers might sound like, as opposed to what I hear being made every day by bored college kids, whiny singersongwriters, and people with good badhair. Always a hotbed for artistic fecundity, the East Village and Lower East Side have stumbled a bit these last two decades, and I lose hope that the accountants, legal consultants, and human resources cocoordinators that now inhabit the area will be coming with the shithot sounds anytime soon. While a select few characters documented on Soul Jazz's latest, earnest compilation have gone onto careers playing music (Ikue Mori, Arto Lindsey, Glenn Branca, Bill Laswell), at the time contained within1978 to 1982 many of them were occupied with other disciplines: film, drama, painting, photography, performance art, design, fashion, audio production, etc., and would stay within these professions, the music a mere component in life's other pursuits. \"Optimo\", Liquid Liquid's A side to their moreoften celebrated flip \"Cavern\" (sampled by Grandmaster Melle Mel for \"White Lines\"), opens the set with a cowbelldriven blast of snares, clavé, bootythrobbing bass kicks, rototoms, and elastic bass that blows past the produced percussion stomps by the likes of A Certain Ratio and !!!. Mars' \"Helen Forsdale\" the sole escapee of No New York's black hole remains as vital and dark as ever, the two and a half minutes exhilerates like a leap off of the Manhattan Bridge. DNA's track from the American Clavé single similarly excites in this oneminute context. Glenn Branca, Pitchfork's last recipient of the 10.0, represents the avantgarde that also took roots in the LES with his first composition for two electric guitars. Chiming and grinding as chimeras, \"Lesson No.1\" predicts entire band career trajectories with the eightminute piece. His previous band's only single, the Theoretical Girls' \"You Got Me\", grafts amplified anvil hits to the chord progression from \"TransEurope Express\" and a bludgeoning guitar attack that will in ten years' time be called Helmet. If \"Rapper's Delight\" is the Odyssey of hiphop, is \"Beat Bop\" its Ulysses? This epic by Rammelzee and K. Rob (along with painter Jean Michel Basquiat in the studio producing) contains so many mutant strains of the genre's DNA that each time through reveals whole new levels of meaning. My first time hearing it on Ego Trip's compilation a few years ago disclosed the wellspring of countless songs, samples, and careers of some of hiphop's finest, like the Beastie Boys (I count at least five songs) and (in every aspect) Cypress Hill. Contained within the duo's constant flow of back and forth rhymes at once funky, randomly off the dome, street observational, laidback, complicated, alientweaked, and socially conscious are layouts for other adventurous types like De La Soul, Slick Rick, the Pharcyde, Kool Keith, Quasimoto, Old Dirty Bastard, and Outkast. The sounds of late 70's funk radio is obvious throughout; from the mocked hihat chatter, disco choruses, canned handclaps, and bright horn bursts to the naïfNile Rodgers sleek slap bass bottom and chopped guitar comping of so many Philly Soul joints are attempted in both the awkward playing and barebones production, mostly to endearing effect. When slide guitars are stirred in, as on the Contortions' \"Contort Yourself\" and Lizzy Mercier Descloux's \"Wawa\", it makes for the funky correlation of the arrhythmic and atonal guitar jags of Captain Beefheart and his, uh, Dazz Band. \"Reduction\", an early Material track, before Bill Laswell went on to weave radio staples like Whitney Houston (thenunknown), Nona Hendryx, and Bootsy Collins into the mix, even shows a fondness for early musique concrète and Cage's imaginary landscapes, dropping snippets of religious broadcasts into their studious funk and paving the way to future sound collaging, from the Butthole Surfers to DJ Shadow. Arthur Russell, the criminally forgotten cellist, Allen Ginsburg accompanist, minimalist composer, narrowlyaverted Talking Head, and creator of exquisite Paradise Garage staples and protohouse sides like \"Go Bang #5\", \"Kiss Me Again\", and \"Tell You Today\" has another piece rescued from the unissued catalog: \"Clean On Your Bean\". While there are jumping off points from \"Go Bang #5\", Russell stirs echoing group chatter as lyrics, rippling guitar, fusiony organ stabs, congos, cello strokes, and trombones to delirious effect, letting Francois Kevorkian sort it out in the mix.  It's longwinded at seventyone minutes, as most Soul Jazz overviews tend to stay concise (their postpunk counterpart from the UK, In the Beginning was Rhythm, was a halfhour shorter), but trying to assimilate all the important foundations that arose out of this particular lot of ground is near impossible. Lydia Lunch and James \"Blood\" Ulmer are left out, unfortunately, but there are many vying for its cramped space, and inclusion of The Dance and The Blood surprises. From hiphop to nowave, jazzpunk disco to house music to electroclash, sleek funk to crusty noise, there's a lot to cover, and Soul Jazz does the job admirably, touring the biggest landmarks and some of the interesting diversions not on the map, but nonetheless coexisting sidebyside. "}