{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1975/homepage_large.6bc8b34b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Various Artists","title":"In the Beginning There Was Rhythm","text":" How raw do you like your dance music? Does modern techno feel like a soft blow to your skull? There used to be a better way. London's Soul Jazz Records has released In the Beginning There Was Rhythm, a compilation of British postpunk bands, including the Slits, Gang of Four, Throbbing Gristle, and Cabaret Voltaire. We're talking about drums and wires, knifesharp scratchy rhythm guitar, crappy synths, and veteran funk and reggae horns. We're talking men shouting political slogans and naked women covered in mud. And while this music sounds old, it sure as hell isn't dated this stuff is primal, made by people who were finding new ways to channel the brute instinct that first drove man to bang animal skins with sticks. These songs came out of the bleak setting of industrial England in the late 70s and early 80s. The Thatcher administration came into power, and skinheads and members of the National Right roamed the streets. Against this climate, bands emerged from the inner city melting pots embodying a new racial, sexual, and musical diversity. DJs spun reggae records at punk shows. Tape loops and synthesizers joined the guitar as lead instruments. Funk, dub, and experimental music were bigger influences than the Velvet Underground or \"Iggy Fucking Pop\" (to quote A Certain Ratio's Simon Topping), and allgirl and multiracial bands introduced new ideas to the \"white boys, three chords and an attitude\" world of pop. Every track on this album cooks with the excitement of musicians trying new things. For their \"Coup\" single, 23 Skidoo were joined by a star funk bassist and horn section. Then, once they had an unstoppable dance track, they piled on sound effects of breaking glass and guns firing just because it sounds cool. At the brainier end of the scale, the shamefully obscure This Heat manufactured \"24 Track Loop\" with just a tape loop and a mixing board, huddling in the studio that they'd made from a converted meat locker. They crib from dub and the avantgarde, but more important, \"24 Track Loop\" is a sick little number with a fast beat and a terrifically abrasive sound that comes off absolutely modern. There are also straightup guitar bands, which combined leftwing politics with assshaking rhythm sections. The Pop Group's \"She Is Beyond Good and Evil\" one of their most infectious singles appears here, with its bone marrow guitars and Mark Stewart's guttural swagger, \"Western values mean nothing to her.\" Reggae veteran Dennis Bovell, who also produced albums for the Slits, adds effects that make it sound monstrously vast. Gang of Four, who played legendary tours in the States, tear through \"To Hell With Poverty,\" singing, \"Some are insane and they're in charge,\" over heavy drums and jagged, searing guitars. This single alone makes everything Rage Against the Machine has ever aspired to redundant. Less aggressive and more offkilter, the Slits contribute the title song, \"In the Beginning There Was Rhythm.\" Ari Up's untrained voice mutters, needles and bellows the lyrics; a little warbly and massively expressive, she's in top form on this track. You could almost call this compilation \"eclectic,\" but that's too quaint a word for music that punches you in the gut. The bands are diverse but every song has a killer beat that sells the political lyrics and grounds the experimentation. Whatever the methods and whoever's in the lineup, every band here understands that fundamental, deepasyoursoul rhythm: like Ari Up sings, \"God says you will dance.\" If there's anything's wrong with the disc, it's that it's too short; the story of postpunk could take up several box sets. The disc comes with 35 pages of liner notes, but the record itself doesn't tell a story or connect the songs. Many bands got left out, and it would also be interesting to hear how the bands developed for example, to watch the early Human League with its craptronic keyboards and allguy lineup grow into the band that created the synthpop masterpiece Dare. But the problem with big anthologies is that they inevitably use tracks that are important but aren't fun. In the Beginning, on the other hand, doesn't have a single limp tune. It'll amaze new listeners and give old ones some hardtofind tracks. Buy it. "}