{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1977/homepage_large.d1482fee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Studio One Dub","text":" The timing of the Soul Jazz label's most recent overviews of the massive Studio One catalog have been eerily prescient. Of course, the decision to box their earlier discs into one set came just in time for Christmas, but their ska sampler from earlier this year was the imprint's most politically charged release yet, crammed with joyous, rebellious music to meet election year headon. Now, with Sir Coxsone Dodd's passing a few weeks back, Soul Jazz's newest collection, Studio One Dub, cannot help but to serve as loving tribute to this giant of a man who not only defined popular music for the isle of Jamaica, but for the world over, his innovations laying the foundations for hiphop, dance and postrock. As the liner notes attest, dub is the music of the studio engineers and the soundsystem rulers, producers who expand their recorded music sansmusicians by endlessly recycling rhythms and melodies, toying with timing and time itself, and making ceaseless mutations using studio technology. \"Dub plates\" originally alluded to the reference discs and soft acetates that studios would cut by day for exclusive airings by select Jamaican sound systems at night. As the engineers started dropping the vocals in and out of the mix, adding effects to the remaining tracks of drum and bass, a new genre of music was formed. Though never the eccentric genius caricature that Lee \"Scratch\" Perry was, nor the solid master craftsman that King Tubby was, Dodd's dubs drew on such a fertile ground of classic Jamaican rhythms that he rarely missed. As such, it's difficult to find fault with the versions presented here. Culling 17 selections from literally thousands of discs made by Dodd and engineer Sylvan Morris between 1966 and 1972 is a thankless task, and will always remain a slight sampling of the music created during that era, but as many of these cuts are ridiculously rare (only appearing in small batches on a temporal medium, usually with silkscreened sleeves), their preservation in plastic is crucial to understanding the depths of these songs and the skills of the technicians involved. Even the instantly recognizable beats of Horace Andy's \"Skylarking\", \"Mr. Jollyman\" and \"Mr. Bassie\" (renamed \"Sky Rhythm\", \"Taurus Dub No.2\", and \"Chase Them Version\" respectively) are tweaked in such a way as to remain unpredictable, reconfigured with new angles and instrumental combinations. \"Creator Version\" strips Dawn Penn's succulent coos off of \"No No No\", revealing the sinewy bass and pumping elasticity underneath, while cutting Delroy Wilson's vocal is reduced to a humming trace wrapped around the hand drums of \"Running Dub\". Dodd's distorted meltdown of Jackie Mittoo's organ notes for his version of \"In Cold Blood\" is noisy enough to make even Pan Sonic fans smile, and perhaps take a moment to realize the true heights of this man's unfathomable talent and unbeknownst, unassuming touch behind the boards. Surrounded by all of the prime players of Studio One, and echoing of some of his most crucial hits from Burning Spear, Johnny Osbourne and John Holt, this burning set celebrates Dodd's extraordinary life by mashing time and space until it's joyfully suspended. What better tribute could there be? "}