{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1978/homepage_large.b8ca8937.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Nicky Siano's The Gallery","text":" Since being 'rediscovered' in an Internet chatroom in the late 1990s, New York DJ Nicky Siano has reaped the benefits of this decade's renewed interest in disco. One of DJing's founding fathers, Siano has recently made print and television appearances as well as a return to the live circuit; now we have Nicky Siano's The Gallery, a Soul Jazzsponsored collection of early favorites from the legendary New York nightclub. Although the word \"disco\" features prominently on the cover, Gallery more accurately is protodisco or, better yet, primordialdisco. Spanning soul, funk, gospel, and rock, its 17 tracks are united more by a bustling energy than a faithfulness to any one genre. It's not a disco history lesson, but a testament to how exciting and new those exploratory mid70s sets must have felt. From the inlay photos of Siano and a young Larry Levan decorating the venue with balloons to the charmingly unfinessed way that these different tracks run into each other, Gallery succeeds at communicating the thrill of being in on something from the beginning. It also smolders, something you might not expect from a collection of album cuts and bsides. Featuring a perfectly executed build, a 13armed drum break, a narcoticized bass solo, a complete instrumental meltdown and a goosebumpinducing outro, The Isley Brothers' \"Get Into Something\" folds about 12 individually wonderful moments into its sevenandahalf minutes. Just as tremendous is The Pointer Sisters' rendition of Allen Toussaint's \"Yes We Can Can\", which starts by coasting on a brittle, midtempo rhythm then explodes over the course of its six minutes into a loose, jubilant callandresponse. The remaining tracks can basically be divided into two sections: the soul/funk cuts that map out as disco's direct precursors (Loleata Holloway's \"We're Getting Stronger\") and Siano's more esoteric, farout selections. With its clickety percussion, whistles, and brittle acoustic guitars, Exuma's \"Exuma  The Obeah Man\" triangulates African folk, Tropicalia, and American roots; elsewhere, the armsup gospel of Gloria Spencer's \"I Got It\" and the swirling keyboard rock of Bonnie Bramlett's \"Crazy 'Bout My Baby\" hammer home just how wide Siano's umbrella must have been. Anyone who's ever seen a gradeA crate digger fall on his face can tell you that the best DJs aren't the most knowledgable ones, they're the most generous ones. And if The Gallery is anything to go by, Siano even 20 years removed from his glory days still manages to be both. "}