{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1979/homepage_large.269bd2b3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Acid: Can U Jack? Chicago Acid and Experimental House 1985-1995","text":" Acid was a dance craze that became a culture. Read a lot of the literature at the time (at least in the U.S.) and you'd think you were reading early 60s descriptions of the mashed potato and the popcorn. (Something the music reinforced with all those \"this is how u jack\" lyrics and titles.) Early Chicago house was seen by a lot of American commentators (rightly, more or less) as a cutrate extension of disco with some added Prince. Pretty quickly, however, as house clubs became as briefly prominent in New York as hiphop ones, house could not be denied. As with everything rock'n'roll, disco, punk, rap initially viewed with a cocked eyebrow as a \"fad,\" acid (and house) thrived beyond all expectations. When it hit England, it promptly upended their entirely pop industry for a decade. Today, \"acid\" describes both a moment (the midtolate 1980s) and a genre (house music made with the Roland 303 synthesizer). So does this compilation, impeccably timed by Soul Jazz to follow the hipster snout to the next truffle after punkfunk and early 80s electro. (By my estimation we should arrive at Detroit techno before year's end.) People who should know better rag on Soul Jazz, but if you already own all these songs on their original vinyl pressings, this despite a generous amount of liner notes and historical material isn't for you. But I am guessing you don't. I sure don't. The first acid track is the last one here. Phuture (DJ Pierre, Spanky, Herb, and Marshall Jefferson) created \"Acid Tracks\" in late 1985, holed up in their apartments against the harsh Chitown winter, abusing a piece of technology that was a commercial flop. The Roland 303 bassline synthesizer sounded so wack when put to its intended use that no selfrespecting guitarist would touch it. So it was cheap, and that's how Pierre, Spanky, and Herb got a hold of it. There's a MIDI bleep lurking in the guts of the thing, and when the trio cranked the volume and began twisting the knobs the acid house noise came out. It's kind of hard to describe a robot bullfrog imitating a car alarm played on an octave hopping keyboard but by now everyone knows it. Jefferson told them to slow it down 10bpm to 120, and showed them how to get it pressed to vinyl. By that point the name had been changed from \"In Your Mind\" to \"Acid Tracks\", as it had colloquially become known as \"Ron Hardy's acid track.\" Hardy lorded over the sweattippled sardine tin called the Music Box that, along with Frankie Knuckles' Warehouse, was one of house music's two sacred sites. He had played the track on reeltoreel tape at the Box to ecstatic response, and his kingmaking abilities allowed acid to thrive. As creation myths go, it's a pretty good one. One the one hand, \"Acid Tracks\" is the only acid track anyone really needs. They're all variations on that bassline, essentially. The machine does a lot of the randomization for you: Take the batteries out and there's a whole new bassline waiting for you the next time you turn it on. On the other hand, with the right fingers on the knobs, there's room for endless creative variation. Acid is a strange mix of Bsides and lesserknown tracks with a few classics thrown in, but it still manages to hit most of the major acid tropes. Like the cheesy (in a good way) vocals on opener \"This Is Acid\" by Maurice, which performs the \"rock & roll will never die\" role. (Only when a genre is newborn does it get to name more than 50% of its songs after itself.) \"This is the ultimate acid track.\" It's not, really, but it is very charming. Or the spooky narrator of Sleazy D's \"I've Lost Control\", which anthropomorphizes that \"too far gone\" feeling of being nose bleedingly fucked up on cocaine. (Or, uh, so I've heard.) Or the synths running in the background of Mr. Fingers' \"Beyond the Clouds\" that sound like they could be straight off an Erasure record. Or the weird Oompa Loompa chanting on Fresh's \"Dum Dum Pt. 2\". Or the bracingly crude, jacking drum machines powering most of the songs here, drums that can sound like thunderclaps or a child's rock tumbler, often in the same song. But here's the thing. Acid gets a little boring and samey in isolation and repetition. Plus, it's club music. Heard in your living room, I wouldn't blame you for pulling a shrug. Acid can be amazingly powerful, catalytic music, or it can be Eurodisco with funny whub whub noises overtop. So, if early house is still terra incognita, I'd actually suggest starting with last year's amazing (and more wide reaching) Trax Records mix. Or the more catholic Warp 10+1: Influences comp that came out in 1999 (and includes \"Acid Tracks\".) But if you've already jacked the box once or twice, Acid has all the robot bullfrogs and crass drum machines you could ask for.  "}