{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1980/homepage_large.ff56e98f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"New York Noise 2","text":" As recently as five years ago, the recorded legacy of the celebrated No Wave/postpunk scene of 197884 NYC was in a state of neglect, with many of its key documents either out of print or otherwise difficult to come by. More recently, however, there's been a veritable explosion of topdrawer material reissued from this crucial era, including the long overdue reissue of the seminal No New York compilation and expansive career overviews of scene mainstays like Mars, Rhys Chatham, DNA, and Arthur Russell. One of the most satisfying of these recent archival collections was Soul Jazz's 2003 compilation New York Noise 19781982, which gathered farreaching tracks from such diverse acts as Liquid Liquid, Defunkt, and Glenn Branca. The inveterate historians at Soul Jazz have again dipped their fingers into the vaults on New York Noise 2, a collection that assembles tracks from betterknown performers (Sonic Youth, Branca, Russell) alongside several from the decidedly more obscure likes of Clandestine, Red Transistor, and Certain General. As with the first volume, the songs here can pivot abruptly from elastic, throbbing disco into refracted Afrobeat, arthouse dub, and the extremes of avantgarde dissonance. With a depth and breadth that suggests this particular reservoir is far from dry, the album coheres together remarkably well considering these tracks share little in common aside from their temporal and geographic origins. The collection opens with the infectious rhythms of \"Ungawa, Pt. 2\" by Pulsallama, a group founded by actress and future Bongwater member Ann Magnuson, which then proceeds effortlessly into Mofungo's dense, jazzy \"Hunter Gatherer\". These tracks immediately fix the album's ebullient motion, a dynamism that's further illustrated by Vortex OST's dizzy \"Black Box Disco\" and the unruly funk of Don King's \"Tanajura\". The vibrant momentum of these danceflavored cuts is stilled only slightly by the occasional jarring segue into noisier, punkcentric tracks like Red Transistor's \"Not Bite\" or UT's pummeling \"Sham Shack\". Likewise, the monolithic guitar sculptures of Chatham's \"Drastic Classicism\" or Branca's \"My Relationship\" prove immovably dense enough to absorb whatever concussive waves might rock their exteriors. Also of note is the squiggling, unpinnable lurch of \"My Hands Are Yellow (From the Job That I Do)\" by the DelByzanteens, an act bolstered by the keyboards and vocals of filmmakertobe Jim Jarmusch. Unlike the first volume of New York Noise, which included Rammelzee and K.Rob's \"Beat Bop\", this compilation contains no true examples of early hiphop, an exclusion that likely counts as the album's most glaring omission. And one could certainly question the inconsequential presence of Sonic Youth's \"I Dreamed I Dream\", an early, unformed piece that brings little to the table beyond name recognition. Quibbles about the track list aside, the most striking aspect this album is the artists' collective refusal to look backwards for inspiration. There's nothing on any of these tracks that could be mistaken for the work of a preceding decade. Instead, each performer here audibly strives to create music free from obvious precedent, a worthy objective that will hopefully provide sincere inspiration for those future acts tempted to look to the artists of New York Noise 2 for guidance. "}