{"label":" Galaxia","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/199/homepage_large.27a64f29.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"The Anomoanon","title":"Envoi Villon EP","text":" Dear Ned Oldham, That subtle lily of eighties comedy, Sam Kinison, had a routine about what a bummer it would be to be Jesus' brother, with Mary and Joseph always saying, \"What's wrong with you? Why can't you be more like your brother Jesus? He does everything right.\" I cling to Sam's stirring vision of the jilted sibling every time you get compared to your brother Will. The other kids at school chide me, \"Anomoanon sounds like the Grateful Dead, ass,\" and then they beat me up and caulk my navel. One even slandered my choice of sneakers, saying, \"I tried to get some shoes like yours, but my quarter got stuck in the machine.\" Cold! Ned, I've been your fan since Palace was a Brotherhood. The controlled tremble of your whatifNeilYoungcouldsurf voice nailed your enigmatic brother Will to our planet. I often skulked around you on summer tours, inspired by the brashness of your flipflops. When you guys were practicing for the Lost Blues tour in Charleston, South Carolina, I crouched in the dunes at Folly Beach and watched you boogie board. (Let's see those mean kids pick on his shoes, I thought.) A patrolman wrote me a ticket for screwing up the grass. Years ago, when your bandmates the Stith brothers announced a Nedfronted project, I ran out to get the first Anomoanon seveninch, \"Hello My/The Free Web.\" I don't think you've topped its festive brooding yet, though the album and EP of original material each had their strengths. And you should have seen how the other kids at school reacted to my championing your Mother Goose album that celebrated the bawdiness and gothicness of oraltradition nursery rhymes. Then, when you did the album of Robert Louis Stevenson children's poetry and I did a report on it in class, someone filled my back bicycle tire with weevil urine and punctured it just enough to squirt a mustard line down my back. So now, Ned, you've released an EP of Francois Villon poems set to your scrappy, moody harborrock. Oh, okay. ARE YOU TRYING TO GET ME KILLED? You knew I would go purchase it and love it! And that the other kids just associate the French with some caricature of froufrouness. They'll think Villon a squinting snoot, unaware that he was the consummate ne'erdowell, robbing churches, killing a priest, and hosting many a street fight. I'm reckoning that the cover's gothic woodcut of three hung figures is a reference to how many documented times this poet barely escaped the noose. Your impossibletooverlook brother has put the work of several poets to music, including D.H. Lawrence and Rabindrath Tagore. You guys are arch at being arcane. I enjoy reminding those who accuse both of you of pretentiousness that being pretentious involves pretending. And neither of you are pretending to be swept up in what you're doing, or to know something you don't know. TV culture, though, curse its rank abortive porridge, has people thinking that saying you're into anything outside its narrow window of instant gratification is pretentious, even if you passionately and authoritatively enjoy it. This EP of yours is a culture casserole, hurtling the listener through various centuries and to various countries and mead halls, except it's always twilight. \"John of the Slum\" almost reaches a breaking point of how much a song can goulash, with you singing French in your Kentucky brogue while playing stumbly flamenco. \"Ballade of Villon and Fat Margot\" is a classic slopcountry chronicle of Epicurean hollowness. You sound exhausted telling the world that \"I am her pimp and she my prostitute be.\" Villon raised his hell in the 1400s; most of us dingleberry Americans think the Beats invented decadence. The digital lacquer on your voice helps you slink around the phrasings, building to that chorus, \"In this brothel where we ply our trade.\" The trademark Oldham codeinewaltz of \"Ballade of Good Doctrine to Those of Ill Life\" is held together by a Dylanesque harmonica line that leads lazily into the next \"Ballade\"'s trippy wailings. I'll recommend this (via the Internet, Ned, because the kids at school will just drag me out to the parking lot and make me lick their Talons' gas caps) to any fan of My Morning Jacket's indulgent, reverby psychedelia. I hear echoes of the echoes of Drag City tenants such as Plush, Papa M, and even the Pink Floyd liquiscapes of the slow moments of Smog's Burning Kingdom EP. Well, kudos to you, Ned, for singing about doublets without calling to mind the dramaschool dropout goateeans who welcome Medieval Times customers to \"the realm,\" or the nerds jousting for the hearts of frumpy maidens in Doc Martens at renaissance fairs. You should call up Chef Boyardee and come out with your own canned pasta, Arpeggios. I read your essay about Tiny Tim in The Oxford American, and my figuring is that you are an authentic freak who just happens to look like a buff Jeff Daniels. Your face at concerts, Ned, especially at that shitty art space in Baltimore, reminds me of bigeyed babies who are blown away by the fact they exist. How'd you pull of that pastel plaid shirt that night? How'd you and Paul and Will share teats and end up so musical? How'd you conjure an EP that forces the eyelids to halfmast and the cynicism to melt? Villon, ever the mopey ironist, wrote in \"I Die of Thirst While at Your Fountain Side\" that \"I'm joyful and I don't have any fun... well received, dismissed by everyone.\" You're perfect for each other. I'ma go get my ass kicked in the year 2002. "}