{"label":" Soundway","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1984/homepage_large.0f5435da.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ghana Soundz: AfroBeat, Funk & Fusion in 70s Ghana","text":" We Americans have some very different ideas about music. Here, it's an industry, a part of the GNP even others countries' folk music is a commodity. Playing music is a learned skill for most of us, a luxury, even a solitary form of expression, often never shared with the world at large. Meanwhile, in parts of the third world, music is part and parcel with daily life, a communal language infused with ceremony, and integral to daily life. Perhaps this helps explain why so little recorded music comes to us from outside the sphere of industrialized nations there's little focus on distributing and selling recorded music, even music with obvious commercial potential, in societies where making music isn't widely viewed as the province of the few. All this makes a compilation like Ghana Soundz: AfroBeat, Funk and Fusion in 70s Ghana somewhat bittersweet. Bitter because it's obvious that, without direct Western influence and a certain compromising of traditional lifestyles, this music never would have been made; sweet because the music is so, so good. Like all of Africa, save Liberia (which was very nearly a U.S. colony), Ghana was once ruled by distant Europeans with no vested interest in the wellbeing of the local populace. The British colonial authority in Ghana (they called it the Gold Coast, because its huge gold deposits were what they wanted it for) wasn't among the worst colonial governments, but foreign rule is always a deadend street for the locals, and in 1957, Ghana became one of the first European holdings in Africa to assert its independence, taking the name from an ancient and powerful trading empire that once controlled vast swaths of West Africa. Ghana's boundaries are, of course, artificial, and Ghanaian society consists of no fewer than eight major ethnolinguistic groups, but the country has managed to remain peaceful in spite of numerous coups and failed experiments with democracy in its history. The 70s marked an era of relative tolerance in Ghana, one in which the massive explosion of creativity that engulfed Western popular music in the late 60s found its way to Ghana. There, Western music infused itself into Ghana's prevailing pop music style, Highlife, a gumbo of jazz, traditional rhythms and Liberian sailor songs that had dominated the popular music scene in urban Ghana since the 30s. It's worth noting that Fela Kuti's earliest bands were essentially Highlife bands Nigeria and Ghana shared heritage as former British possessions and the music scenes in both countries often moved in parallel, though Nigeria's was far better funded and more visible. The experimental bands that sprung up in Ghana, taking on funk, psychedelia and fusion, never really deposed Highlife from the top of the Ghanaian charts (if such a thing can really be said to have existed), but hundreds of highly unique recordings nonetheless found their way onto locally pressed shellac discs in Ghana in the mid70s and the era left behind a spoil of riches that's only beginning to come back to light, thanks largely to this disc, the first in what promises to be a series of three volumes. These songs tread a startling range of ground, but a few things hold true across all of them: they're ebullient and virtually apolitical, and the rhythm is the key. The compilation kicks off with three breakneck, fantastic funk tracks that are impossible not to groove to. The Third Generation Band's \"Because of Money\" is full of tribal percussion and hypnotic guitar, but it's really \"Bukom Mashie\" by Oscar Sulley & The Uhuru Dance Band that brings things into high gear. The song slams in with a killer drum vamp and before you can even fully wrap your head around how awesome it is, the bassist drops this fantastically buoyant line that'll have you looking around for someone to highfive. A huge, saxdominated horn section blasts out an odd mixture of hot jazz, spy themeish drama and dancehall celebration that sucks the breath from your lungs. It's incredible how excellent each song here is. Marijata's \"Mother Africa\" is one of the best funk tracks I've ever heard, raw and filthy and tumbling along at ramjet tempo. Another personal favorite is Gyedu Blay Ambolley & The Steneboofs' \"Simigwado\", a strange tune built on a funky vamp that veers into spoken word passages (I'm not sure of the language) where Ambolley's flow picks up the rhythmic momentum and becomes the song's primary driving force. Honny & The Bees Band are the most overtly Westerninfluenced band here the backing vocals between verses sound almost like a Yardbirds guitar part. And then there's the shocking ringmodulated synthesizer solos that show up in the offerings from K. Frimpong & His Cubano Fiestas and a band called The African Brothers. Rob's \"Make It Fast, Make It Slow\" practically sounds like a D'Angelo track, with its slow, trunkrattling beat anticipating every sleazy bed track that ever cropped up on a hiphop album. You have to hear for yourself to truly understand the magnitude of what was happening in Ghanaian music in the 70s, unbeknownst to the rest of the world. This music sears, and the track selection here is impeccable. I've heard so many cheapass \"world music\" comps over the years that it's truly refreshing to hear one quite so expertly assembled it's not even presented as a world music compilation, so much as a collection of littleheard tracks that happen to be from Ghana. Ghana Soundz shines a longoverdue light on the best kind of music scene one in which creativity and simple joy took precedence over sales or posturing. We could learn from it. "}