{"label":" Stones Throw","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/1985/homepage_large.d5aed9ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Chennault","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Peanut Butter Wolf's Jukebox 45s","text":" Stones Throw embodies everything that is right about hiphop today. Peanut Butter Wolf, who founded the San Francisco label and oversees its daily operations, has assembled a tightknit group of likeminded artists who adhere to the cratedigger's ethic of vinyl archeology. But perhaps more importantly, Peanut Butter Wolf understands the commercial limitations of his label's focus and never allows expectations of profitability to muddle the Stones Throw mission to saturate the planet with the dopest beats possible. Case in point: the Jukebox 45s series. Not only are a large number of the 24 releases reissues of ridiculously obscure garage funk from the 70s, but their mere format (on oldschool seveninches formerly used for jukeboxes and edited radio singles) precludes any sort of crossover potential. And what's even more appalling from a business standpoint is that many of the other seveninches are exclusive material from the label's most marketable artist, Madlib. And just why has PBW stuck his financial neck out for 45s, you might be wondering? Well, as he explains in the disc's liner notes, he made a promise to himself that when he got older he \"would eventually buy a jukebox for my home and have only hiphop songs on it.\" Sounds good to me. After all, hiphop, from the act of sampling to the black artists' refusal to be tagged with their slave names, has always focused on reclaiming and reinterpreting a collective or personal past. And this desire for reclamation not only dictates the medium of the initial releases of the Stones Throw 45s, but also extends to the track selection and their placement on this compilation. If you look closely, you'll notice that an oldschool soul number such as The Highlighters' \"Poppin' Popcorn\" is sandwiched between hiphop emcee Medaphor's \"Place Your Bet\" and a newschool breakbeat track supplied by überfunksters Breakestra. Placing these musical cousins side by side is a perfect example of the dynamic between influence and art that PBW is attempting to achieve with the Jukebox 45 series. The hiphop songs on here are built upon the spirit of the funk/soul tracks that are included, while modern day bands like Breakestra and Yesterday's New Quintet are reinterpreting that funk through the lens of hiphop. It's a circular, symbiotic relationship that is unique in the music world and results in a seamless mixture of sounds both educational and dope. Which leads us to what really matters: the music. Having been in this game for over a decade, Peanut Butter Wolf knows hiphop, and he knows that Madlib makes good hiphop. With the exception of the Charizma track, all of the Jukebox's traditional hiphop songs are produced by Madlib, which is by no means a liability. Madlib's hiphop tracks on this album can be divided into two different strains: the first consists of slightly offkilter and jazzy productions coupled with a novel and often conceptual approach to the lyrics, while the others tracks are more straightforward, aggressive and funky. For the remix of Quasimoto's \"Microphone Mathematics\", which belongs squarely in the latter category, Madlib supplies a bassline that springs off the beat like a funkified yoyo. A chorus anchored with a sample from De La Soul's \"The Bizness\", which finds Pos scolding emcees who \"try keeping it real, yet you should try keeping it right,\" nicely complements the beat. Of course, you already know that Lord Quas keeps it right, declaring that his intention \"elevate styles beyond explication, turn up the mic [and] increase the amplification.\" While it's hard to improve upon the original \"Microphone Mathematics\", this remix does at least match the original. On the quirky jazz tip, there's Dudley Perkin's \"Flowers\" and Lootpack's \"On Point\". The Dudley Perkins track was improvised and originally intended as a joke, but its ghetto pastoral fabulousness renders it too sweet to be written off as mere novelty. Although Perkins probably shouldn't quit his day job as bluntedbeforebreakfast emcee Declaime, his kitschy rasp on \"Flowers\" fits the track's lovely piano sample like an astral glove. The Lootpack cut, \"On Point\", features a similar, pianobased sample, although this one is a little loopier and not quite as infectious as \"Flowers\". For the vocals, Madlib literally spells out his very alliterative verses in a dizzying display of skills that will either leave you breathless or very confused. Although Madlib's brand of hiphop has become a trademark of sorts for Stones Throw, the most intriguing tracks are the garage soul/funk reissues. The Ernie and the Top Notes' \"Things Could Be Better\" is by far the most soulful and technically accomplished. The music, with a rhythm section that displays a refrained funk while a bluesy guitar line doodles on top, captures the transition between the soulful swagger of 60s Motown and the funkadelic strut that dominated the 70s scene. Whereas \"Things Could Be Better\" conjures a lateMotown sound, the Stark Reality's \"Rocket Ship\", released in 1970, is more akin to the garage psych of Captain Beefheart or even Syd Barrett. With serrated dissonance and chanted vocals, whether or not you like this will depend upon your tolerance for lofi noise. While the Yesterday's New Quintet and Breakestra songs shine, Captain Funkaho's ode to the Atari 2600, \"My 2600\", takes the prize for the best nufunk/jazz song on the album. Perhaps the most fitting way to describe this song would be to mention that it was recorded in the back room of an actual working Laundromat in Oakland. With its cheeseball vocals and rolling basslines, it perfectly captures the ghettodirtylaundry vibe that its setting demanded. On a side note, Bay Area indie scenesters should remember the track's female singer, Robin, from her days as a lead singer for the Lookout! Records punk group Black Fork. Over the years, Stones Throw has forged through the trends, resisted the pull of commercialism, and along the way churned out some classic material. If nothing else, their success should prove that it's possible to maintain a very personalized vision of music and run a successful record label. Although this isn't likely to endure as the quintessential Stones Throw release (that distinction, for the time being, belongs to Quasimoto's The Unseen), Peanut Butter Wolf's Jukebox 45s best captures the label's perseverance and vision. If you sleep on this, you may as well step out of the game. "}