{"label":" Strut","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/1989/homepage_large.071dcae6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Black Rio: Brazil Soul Power: 1971-1980","text":" Black Rio: this is James Brown, Kool & the Gang, funky congas and slippery guiros, black pride, black power, samba, dancing boys and girls, two turntables and no microphones, sweet Soul Brasileiro, secret block parties, dozens of cowbells, trumpets, clubs, sweat, afros and all the right moves, Soul Grand Prix, the Culture of Rebirth, bailes black, renegade DJs and the \"school of music.\" In the 70s, this South American paradise for vacationing Americans was in actuality a tough place to live for young blacks. Brazilian society offered them reduced economic and cultural freedom, yet instructed them to represent the \"essence of Brazil\" by 1) never leaving their designated neighborhoods, and 2) never bringing the influence of their Harlem brothers and sisters to their country. Samba was the old party music, but young Brazilian blacks had other ideas. Boa vinda a Black Rio, friends. As DJ Cliffy indicates in his liner notes for this compilation of his own selections, the sound of Black Rio was difficult to separate from its politics. What the Brazilian press derided as the sound of local black youth shamefully imitating American soul and funk was actually the voice of a new generation with little use for the ultraconservative destiny set aside for them. Music and dance promoter Dom Filo argued against the hypocrisy of white kids in the north dancing to the Rolling Stones while blacks in the south couldn't do the same with James Brown. The legendary Gerson King (originally Cortes) typified the scene's openness to new sounds and ideas by maintaining a \"black is beautiful\" philosophy, while at the same time stating that white, the color of the clouds, was equally so. However, no matter the unpopularity of Black Rio's politics with hardline Brazilians, it was the music that gave the scene its real color. Samba is the traditional dance music of the country, but American soul began to infiltrate Brazil in the early 60s as famed bandleaders Tim Maia and Cassiano played music known as 'Soul Brasileiro,' influenced by James Brown, Stevie Wonder and jazz fusion. Gerson King played a kinetic, funky music influenced by the rhythms of Jamaica as much as Maia and Cassiano, and actually danced with James Brown onstage at a gig in New York. His tune, \"Uma Chance,\" closes this compilation on a very JBstyled note, replete with horn hits and \"good God\" exclamations. Its midtempo groove and way70s clavinet and vampstructure (another lift from Brown) must have suited the allnight party circuit just fine. King discovered another band in the suburbs of Rio de Janeiro called Uniao Black whose \"Black Rio\" was Kool & the Gang right down to the tight horns and bass up front. Similar to King and Uniao Black, the very politically and socially active Toni Tornado specialized in hard, gritty funk. \"Podes Crer, Amizade\" is more Bar Kays than JBs, but its bottomheavy beat and callandresponse vocals (inherited from samba) were just as suited to celebratory release as King's stuff. Trio Mocoto also had a knack for the celebratory, if slightly more traditional (sometimes approaching tribal). Their \"Nago\" is the fusion of samba shouts, jungle dances and backwater funk. This band played eclectic black music alongside the best American bands, but was actually more famous as the legendary Jorge Ben's backing band in the late 60s and early 70s. Jorge Ben's style differed greatly from his more rigorously funky compatriots, in that he seemed to prefer smooth, breezier rhythms and a generally sweet atmosphere. His most renowned album, 1976's Africa Brasil, popularized the AfroBrazilian sound well outside of the country's borders. His music was funky, but in a much subtler fashion than Gerson King's or Toni Tornado's. \"Comanche,\" culled from Ben's Black is Beautiful LP, features traditional acoustic guitar strumming, understated trumpet, and Ben's own pastel keyboard shadings, all over a propulsive, yet featherlight, rhythm. It's a beautiful sound, and if this collection does nothing else, hopefully it spawns a few new Ben fans. Another Soul Brasileiro superpower was the Banda Black Rio. Formed in the mid70s, the band weren't around for the birth of the scene, but certainly did as much for it as anyone else. One of the few acts to be backed by a major label, BBR released three albums featuring arguably the most successful fusion of samba, soul and funk of any band going. Furthermore, improvisation played a big role in their music, and the best players (themselves plucked from many of the best local bands, such as Dom Salvador's excellent bossafunk ensemble) would be able to pick up the groove and take a solo at the drop of a fedora. \"Gafieira Universal\" is a marvel of samba and classic cocktail funk that could've turned any episode of \"The Love Boat\" into an allnighter. Some of the tunes on Black Rio don't hold up as well to my ears: the goofy instrumental version of \"Rapper's Delight\" by Gang do Tagarela seems a little unnecessary, as it just repeats the same bassline and beat over and over, with little interplay between the soloist and band (not to mention that, without the MC, this isn't really \"Rapper's Delight,\" but \"Good Times\"!). Likewise, Eklipse Soul's \"Psicose\" takes a patented Kool & the Gang groove and proceeds to add not much other than some weird screaming vocals, and what sounds like someone impersonating a theremin. So, on second thought: classic. Today, this music is probably going to do its best work at parties and clubs. Whatever politics are embedded in this music aren't necessarily important when you're dancing, though they do tend to give it a darker hue when you factor them in. Black Rio didn't last long as a scene, but its spirit undoubtedly lives on in Brazilian music (hiphop is almost as big there now as it is here), and in compilations like this. So, you can do one of two things: pick this up and experience the bittersweet celebration of Soul Brasileiro, or just dance your ass off. "}