{"label":" Union Square","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1993/homepage_large.dbedfc00.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Various Artists","title":"CBGB's and the Birth of U.S. Punk","text":" I was sold on the Ramones from the moment Joey first lamented the loss of his girl at the hands of the KKK. With every salvo of their 'cartoonsimple' brand of battery acid, they came one step closer to demystifying music, and in my prejaded, precynical youth, I idolized them for it. Now, of course, my ironclad contract with the Hegemony of Music Critics (HMC) prevents me from idolizing anyone because of 'ironic distance,' so the best I can do is admire them as genredefining artists. Just between you and me, though, they rock. As of June 5th, 2002, fully half of the Ramones Joey and Dee Dee are gone. Two Ramones in two years! It's selfish, but I feel robbed. Naturally, there will be tributes, posthumous releases, and more compilations, but somehow, a document like CBGB's and the Birth of U.S. Punk seems more fitting, as well as timely. As good as they were, the Ramones were just a single aspect of the seminal punk scene they came to symbolize. The 'garage rock revival' that holds the music world in thrall has them to thank, along with a dozen other bands who came before; not only the classics like the Velvets and Television, but scores of influential alsorans like the Dead Boys, the Sonics, and the Electric Eels. So for anyone who can't get enough of the Strokes, the Hives, or the Plural Nouns, The Birth of U.S. Punk stands not only as a damn fine album, but an even better history lesson (that is, assuming you don't already know it). CBGB's, the legendary heart of the 70s New York punk scene, is really of secondary importance here despite any stints inhouse, most of the groups compiled here were showing elsewhere before they made their pilgrimages to Hilly Kristal's club. Instead, this album is a love letter to an era. These eighteen tracks try to capture the punk movement sweeping the U.S. at its raw, nihilistic roots, and mostly succeed. The record has all the necessary anthems, from the pogo power of the Ramones' original demo of \"Judy Is a Punk\" to the unbridled cynicism of \"Blank Generation\" by Richard Hell's Voidoids. The Velvet Underground ends up waiting for the man, and Iggy and the Stooges even stop by to talk about \"Tight Pants\" (a nice touch, considering everyone already knows \"Search and Destroy\" and the other obvious choices). Almost all the big names drop by, save the Talking Heads because Union Square couldn't get them licensed, and the MC5, who never played CBGB's. More importantly, The Birth of U.S. Punk highlights those bands that missed out on the spotlight. The Sonics' rendition of \"Louie Louie\" sounds more like the soundtrack to a slasher pic about a guy named Louie than the Richard Berry original and hits like a train wreck. The original mix of the Dead Boys' explosive \"Sonic Reducer\" and the New York Dolls' \"Trash\" encapsulate the aimless desperation of the mean streets of NYC in convenient threeminute bursts. And after that, there's still Suicide, Johnny Thunders, and Pere Ubu to round out the generally stellar guest list for this little shindig. Too bad being a great album and educating America's Strokaholics don't always coincide, because the interests of serving history have led to the inclusion of a few truly wretched pieces of the curriculum. The Seeds and the Electric Eels may have held some sway in the early days of U.S. punk, but subjecting people to the unrelenting whine of \"Excuse, Excuse\" or \"Agitated,\" respectively, is a lesson this album could live without not to mention the singlehanded butchering of the Electric Prunes' classic psych nugget \"I Had Too Much to Dream Last Night\" by Wayne County. Some of this is revisionist history, as well, like seeing the 13th Floor Elevators and the Dead Kennedys alongside Television. No disrespect to Jello, but he's more of a byproduct of this movement than a cause. The one truly inexplicable decision, though, was not arranging the tracks chronologically. Honestly, that's just retarded. When chronicling the progression of anything, what would possess someone to do it out of order? It's not like you're gonna come up with any kind of cohesion with a compilation. And considering that this information is readily available through obvious sources, Union Square doesn't have much of an excuse. But somehow, even for all of its preventable shortcomings, CBGB's and the Birth of U.S. Punk still holds up pretty well. From the punk ballistics of the Ramones to the minimal hum of Suicide's \"Speed Queen,\" this is where so much of what's out there right now takes root. There's enough soul and fire on this release to gently remind everyone that no matter how much this garage revival looks like a movement, most of the kids are really just going through the motions. "}