{"label":" Atlantic / Vice / Wolfgang Morden","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1997/homepage_large.8f8605f6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Yes New York","text":" Yes, New York, there is a record industry. That might be the most striking distinction between this compilation and 1978's historic No Wave warning shot, the famed, Brian Enoproduced No New York comp referred to by the title of this proposed modern counterpart. In 1978, James Chance and his contemporaries were making albums retailers couldn't move with a forklift, and now The Strokes probably have more platinumcertified albums than all the NYC No Wavers combined (which is to say, they have one). Teenage Jesus & The Jerks made music unlike anyone in rock and roll had before them or ever wanted to, perhaps but now we just seem to kill time between revivals. That's how it feels sometimes, hearing every new band discussed in reference to their ancestors; The Fever is to PIL as Ted Leo is to Thin Lizzy, ad infinitum. It's hard not to succumb to crotchety lamentations on the State of the Music Industry when an album a compilation, at that owes such an obvious debt to the past; as a music critic, I realize we're the ones responsible for most of the fingerpointing in the first place, but there's hope to be found at the bottom of all this. Even though Yes New York lacks the outofnowhere significance of its namesake, it's got a few major selling points. First, it's for a good cause: the proceeds will benefit Musicians on Call, a charity devoted to exploring the recuperative powers of music by bringing it to hospital patients. Second, if everyone would quit playing connectthedots to pin down who these bands copped their sounds from, you might be able to hear this album for what it is: a brilliant crosssection of a thriving quasilocal music scene. Fittingly, it opens with a live version of \"New York City Cops\" by the band who, along with a cataclysmic shifting of the city's Feng Shui, is most responsible for the recent wealth of attention being lavished on the NYC scene. The track was cut from the U.S. version of The Strokes' debut, Is This It, in a kneejerk post9/11 pique, for its sweetly disparaging chorus of, \"New York City cops/ They ain't too smaart,\" though I still can't fathom what anyone could hear in this song to warrant censure. Sure, there's a literal dig at New York's boys in blue, and it's basically a tale of heroin addiction, but in every wailing guitar strain, in each of Julian Casablancas' glassyeyed lines, I hear pure love. All of these songs are just a fraction of the emotion to be found on the faces of the millions walking the downtown streets of New York the redemptive hope of Interpol's \"NYC\", the worldisagainstme determination of Ted Leo's \"Ballad of the Sin Eater\" but \"New York City Cops\" is an honest expression of hometown pride. Yeah, I could be reading into it too much, but this comp is New York through and through, and I can't think of a better way to open things up. Following the champions are a halfdozen of the big name acts you'd expect on an earlynaughts NYC compilation: Radio 4 contribute one of their most uncharacteristically innovative and powerful tracks, the impossibly urgent \"Save Your City\"; DFA's other dancepunk superstars, The Rapture, chime in with the synthesized desperation of \"Olio\". From the fragile tranquility of The Walkmen's \"Rue the Day\" to Calla's slightly sinister \"Strangler\", this comp makes one thing perfectly clear: for a host of bands so readily compared to the same tiny stable of influences \"sounding like a modernday Gang of Four...\" there sure is a hell of a lot of diversity between them. An equally impressive feat: most of the bands not yet blessed with truckloads of publicity hang in for all sixteen rounds, without once showing signs of fatigue. The Witnesses manage a surprisingly entertaining take on bluesrock care of AC/DC; the arena vibe might get old after a whole album, but \"I Should Not Have to Ask\" is the perfect antidote to the mopey miserablism that cuts a broad swathe through the middle of the compilation. The Natural History, meanwhile, pull off a groovy, Anglican amalgam of American roots and classic Britpop with \"The Right Hand\" in a moment of clutch latealbum respite. DFA's performance alteregos LCD Soundsystem contribute some Zepinformed 70s stomprock mayhem with \"Tired\", and there's even some band called Unitard doing a subtly countrified, boring take on the Yeah Yeah Y hey, wait a second, it's actually the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, they almost had me fooled! And here I thought they skipped out on Yes New York like their noaccount friends in Liars. The YYY's pull out a less impressive \"unplugged\" version of \"Our Time\" billed as \"Year to be Hated\"; it's one of their weaker moments as a band, but it's uncommonly sincere, and an appropriate, fine closer to a schizophrenic thrillride of a compilation. There are a few other lessthanstellar entries particularly Longwave's achingly ordinary acoustic gentleness but this is a portrait of a city's music community in total, and as such is really impressive. Though every song might not be spectacular, an accurate portrait isn't just a matter of putting on a shiny, happy public face, but rather showing the scene from all angles, for better or \"eh.\" Yes New York manages to corral a number of shooting stars you might expect to fall into ego traps, and countering the cool sheen displayed in hypebuilding articles, their participation in this benefit for such a simple charity is a commendable contribution to the city they call home. "}