{"label":" Wishing Tree","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/1998/homepage_large.be6295ba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Amos House Collection, Vol. 2","text":" Charity compilation albums are the bane of a music critic's existence. Lacking the unifying theme of a soundtrack or tribute album, most compilations offer little in the way of fun, creative angles for record reviews. At best, they work kinda like a massproduced mixtape, albeit one made up of throwaways, bsides, remixes, and demos. Worst of all, if a coldhearted critic like myself were to mercilessly pan the album, thus decreasing its sales, the charitable cause (in this case a homeless shelter/soup kitchen in Rhode Island) stands to make less money. Thus, I must weigh my journalistic integrity against, say, frying in hell for taking food out of homeless peoples' mouths. So I'll get that last concern out of the way by declaring up front, without qualms, that the second volume in Wishing Tree's The Amos House Collection series is a pretty solid comp, ideal for those with a predilection towards introspective indie singer/songwriter material. But that still doesn't leave me with a witty and intriguing vehicle for discussing the album, other than triedandtrue compreviewing formats like songbysong analysis or categorization into \"good,\" \"okay,\" and \"Bright Eyes.\" Ahhh, what the hey:Artists Who Sound Like Other People Seeing as this compilation is largely made up of acoustic, countrytinged slow songs, it's no surprise that a few of the acts sound like they're singing karaoke down at the Red House Painters bar. Drew O'Doherty's \"Oneway\" is the most obvious perpetrator of this crime, but he also does a much better job than the Clairvoyants on their somnambulant \"Don't You Know.\" Aden, who count Senator Phil Gramm's son among their ranks (no lie!), steal the countryrock glory by going further up the genre's family tree to Gram Parsons for \"The Red Door,\" a laid back steelguitar treat. The acts wary of C&W; influences opt instead to mimic the sound of Lou Barlow at his sparsest, be it Skating Club's enjoyably twee \"Stockholm\" or Son, Ambulance's unremarkably noisy \"Two Girls.\" The Gentle Waves' \"Pretty Things\" sounds like Belle & Sebastian (duh), but with schmaltzier horns. Wheat's \"Test Tones (Demo for the Flaming Lips)\" ends up, strangely, not sounding very much like the Lips at all (maybe a halfhearted stab at Soft Bulletin grandeur). Yet Elf Power, as always, sounds exactly like the Flaming Lips on \"Free Will and Testament.\" Artists From My Hometown: Downers Grove, Illinois Believe it or not, there is one: Kleenexgirlwonder. While the homerecorded project of Graham Smith should probably be filed in the category above due to his submission's passable GbV clone job, I couldn't resist mentioning our shared suburban heritage, nor the fact that he was my high school girlfriend's mortal enemy. People, it really is a small world after all.Remixes That Are Neither Re, Nor Mixed A big pet peeve of mine is the remix that sounds only slightly different from the original version, and The Amos House Collection has two such offenders. An \"early version\" of Elliott Smith's \"Bottle Up and Explode,\" for instance, is basically the XO track without drums. Azure Ray's \"Rise (Deadverse Mix)\" makes more noticeable modifications, but the newly beefedup drums and emphasized background drone sound like they're bleeding over from the next room. However, Spoon's \"Everything Hits at Once (Remix for Discos)\" subtly tweaks just the right elements for increased potency, turning the tradrock of the original into a synthdriven newwave number. It's the only song of the compilation that breaks the wispy acoustic mood, and it sounds all the more glorious for it.Appearances By Notorious Pitchfork Punching Bags  We've gotten a lot of mileage out of suckerpunching born targets like Bright Eyes and Ida, two bands who make an appearance here. I'll go ahead and throw another jab at the former, as Conor Oberst contributes the overlong solo acoustic track \"EntryWay Song,\" complete with shaky voice and characteristic dollops of selfpity like, \"I'll start wishing to die again.\" Ida, however, covers the traditional countryfolk of \"Jubilee\" to great effect, avoiding the overly precious and thin sound that's marked recent disappointing efforts.And All The Rest Other artists, both notable (The Aislers Set, Emily Sparks) and otherwise (James William Hindle?) add songs that aren't particularly noteworthy and make little effort to break the hazy aesthetic of the compilation. In fact, when all eighty minutes are taken together, The Amos House Collection, Vol. 2 is a rather sleepy affair, with a consistent mood rarely found in your typical nearrandom assortment of artists' leftovers. It's not unreasonable to imagine the album being used by the Amos House itself to gently drift their homeless tenants off to dreamland. Now you can pretend you're an impoverished drifter, too. "}