{"label":" Wishing Tree","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2000/homepage_large.19d8bc3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hartley Goldstein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Amos House Collection III","text":" While the Rhode Islandbased nonprofit organization Amos House is inarguably a champion of a worthy cause (providing living essentials to individuals in need), their last two attempts at indie moral appeasement seemed overbearingly dull, if starstudded, affairs. Fortunately, this new doubledisc offering fares better, breaking the mindnumbing cycle of compilation blues by presenting a meticulously sequenced collection of new originals, rare demos, Bsides, and previously released tracks from indierock standardbearers such as Wilco, Super Furry Animals, and Spoon. One of The Amos House Collection III's greatest assets is that its contributions, despite that many of its bands are making their second or third appearances on an Amos House comp here, have never sounded so fresh as a unified piece: The two opening tracks from Amos House alumni Emily Sparks and Spoon fit together beautifully. Sparks' \"Find Your Own Fire\" segues into Spoon's invigorating burst of acoustic indierock synergy, an early unplugged demo of the Kill the Moonlight standout \"Jonathan Fisk\" that serves as a fantastic counterpoint to the lilting guitar triplets and sweeping melancholy of Sparks' stark opener. But disc one's inspired opening pales in comparison to the sequencing home run of its closing four tracks. Wheat's contribution, \"Long Shadow, USA (Wheat vs. Tim Rutili)\", eschews the overproduced alacrity of their latest record to match its guest guitarist's meandering bursts of distorted urgency with spacey synth lines and a wondrously esoteric, happy vibe. This driving, rhythmic stargazing exercise is flawlessly followed by the seething, distortiondrenched stumble of Califone's cover of the Stones' classic \"Ventilator Blues\". Remarkably, just as Califone's bluesdin has driven you to the bottle, the energized lofi pop shimmer of Elf Power's \"Evil Eye\", and the swaggering bucolic crunch of the Super Furry Animals rarity \"Foxy Music\" (culled from the hardtofind International League of Screaming EP) draw the disc to an irresistibly rousing close. Fans seeking any juicy dregs of lush, psychpop ingenuity from Circulatory System the Athens, Georgia clique formerly known as Olivia Tremor Control will find much to obsess over on \"Deserts (As Big as a Star)\". The track features a dizzying Easterninfluenced melodic line floating atop crumbling stutterstop breakbeats and Cullen's smothering nonsensical vocals. Unfortunately, Wilco's contribution, \"Let Me Come Home\", doesn't hold up quite as well. The track feels slightly mired by its gloomy arrangement; wandering brush sticks caress the face of the snare, creating a shifting, disconcerting fog over stumbling minor piano chords and Jeff Tweedy's cracked melodramatic appeals for redemption (sample lyric: \"I'll let my dreams be your escape/ If you'll just let me come home\"). It's not bad, but in light of the unusually high standards set by Wilco's previous outstanding work, its status as an outtake could not be clearer. In fact, Wilco's sonic disparity seems rather endemic of the vibe on most of the second disc. Azure Ray's sullen, xchromosome monotony reigns supreme on the languid \"Lucky Sevens\", while in a blindfold test, Matt Smith's melancholy Rhodesdriven innocence on \"Lay Down in the Leaves\" could pass for just about any of Ida's tender minimal musings. To make matters worse, even a big old Saddle Creek singalong can't stop The Good Life's Tim Kasher from urgently declaring that he's \"lost his direction,\" in the ode to abandonment \"Haunted Homecoming\". Still, despite disc two's drudgery, The Amos House Collection III is a bold step forward for compilations of its ilk. It serves as a strong reminder that even the most diverse collection of great tracks, when sequenced thoughtfully, can coalesce into a unified, listenable whole. "}