{"label":" Komfort.Labor / WMF","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2001/homepage_large.7444c5e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Native Lab","text":" The Berlin club night Native Lab is essentially a market research and sales tool. It's organized by Native Instruments, the designer and developer of the modular audio software, Reaktor. The Native Lab night is an opportunity for computerbased musicians to showcase their own material, but also plug the benefits of making Reaktor software as much as a part of your life as gravity. This latest edition of the inhospitably parenthesized and idiosyncratically punctuated [komfort.labor] series is less an opportunity for artists such as Kid 606, Vert, and Vladislav Delay, who have performed at Native Lab to reach a wider audience, than it is a gimmick to give a big plug for Native Instruments products. As far as I can tell, however, none of the thirteen tracks was actually recorded at Native Lab. Many of the tracks have been licensed from other labels and previous releases, which really makes me think that Native Instruments are implying that the artists featured on this disc endorse their products. In short, this is the IDM equivalent of Barry Bostwick slurping a Pepsi Twist. So marketing swizz concerns aside, how's the music? Well, compiler Mate Galic has an ear alert for bassheavy, moderately glitchy club grooves. Kid 606 begins this unmixed set with \"Damn, Dre, Why You Always Hating on Me,\" a bouncy techhouse romp distinguished by some rather Fenneszlike guitar plucks. Jake Mandell, never one to disappoint, hands over the doomy Chain Reaction trance of \"Broccoli Crisis,\" which overcomes its ridiculous title and proves itself a fetching club monster. Mandell cuts the trademark Chain Reaction fog with orchestral stabs, as effective and as dated as when the Pet Shop Boys used them throughout 1988's Introspective. Excerpted from the Asect.Dsect EP, Richard Devine's \"Pulsion Mirror\" furthers Mandell's dancefloor mission and increases the speakerfreaking bass action. I find that Devine's tracks are usually some the most emotionless and academic of laptopery. But with a solid commitment to getting my gluteus gooey, Devine shows himself in quite a different and appealing light. Errorsmith takes the compilation away from dancefloor hedonism and into abstract processes with \"Free for All (Breaks Version),\" which he may have intended to be a lethal combination of the chromiumfunk of Spectrum's \"Metal Master\" and the drifting opening minutes of Vapourspace's \"Gravitational Arch of Ten.\" Except that Errorsmith's repetition of the same rhythmic pattern is as predictable as a French neodisco cut you know when the panning will occur, the phasing, the midfrequency dropout. Perhaps \"Free for All (Breaks Version)\" is nothing more than Errorsmith's testdrive demonstration of how Reaktor handles such things. Mouse on Mars associate F.X. Randomiz returns to the days of ambient liquid sounds for \"Danuni,\" whereas Rob Acid (sounding more like his Atlon Inc. alias) drops some heavy ordinance to describe \"A Day in My Life.\" Worm Interface's Solar X charms me with his Boards of Canadaderivative jumpup jungle and nursery rhyme fusion, \"Marmilad Sticker.\" Vladislav Delay does nothing to impugn his reputation as reigning majesty of IDM with \"The Super Has Left the Model,\" which recalls his fractured Chicago jack tracks recorded under the Luomo and Uusitalo aliases. Siegmar Kreie, on the other hand, takes the glitch into territory previously unknown to me. Kreie's \"Zen Ist Nights Dagegen\" strikes me as if OMD's \"Architecture and Morality\" were reworked by gabba maniacs, and then rereworked by Pete Namlook. \"Zen Ist Nights Dagegen\" is a roiling mass of contradictions, deftly contained by Kreie. Mike Dred brings the acid of his early Kosmik Kommando days up to date, puncturing his pure tone pulses with digitalized screams and searing stabs, and assuring himself Supremely Evil Entity status in the fledgling gothglitch community. After Nitrada vs. Vger's atmospheric burbling called \"(Sky was blue)pow2,\" compiler Galic closes the session in Steve Reichian zombie illbient bhangra style (got that?) with Vert's \"Drawers of Water\" lifted from their Nine Types of Ambiguity LP. There's no escaping the fact that Native Lab is a sampler. If someone new to IDM picked up this compilation and attempted to come to some conclusions about, for example, Kid 606, he would be misled. This type of compilation will never accurately portray Kid 606's splattercore or Vladislav Delay's gently clattering, ever morphinggrooves. That concern aside, the record is far more cohesive than Mille Plateaux's Electric Ladyland: Clickhop version 1.0, which is stylistically similar. By maintaining a club focus, Native Lab proves that when the devil drives, these artists can unmistakably rock the party as well as satisfy MIT Media Lab grads. "}