{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2003/homepage_large.7f185a8c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Total 5","text":" August comes to yet another end, and with it, the final dregs of summer. As the leaves clear out their inventory for Fall's savings at JCPenney and schoolcrossing lights blink back into bloom, so, too with the metronomic precision and watchsetting punctuality that informs all the fruits of their labor does Kompakt's harvest of previous seasons' twelveinches materialize in the form of the latest Total comp. Now in its fifth year, the benevolent yet undeniable power of the Germanbased minimal techno label comes to the fore. Whether it's dealing with microhouse styles and fey indie styling on Tobias Thomas' Smallville mix, or the hammering house glamslam of Michael Mayer's Speicher set, all free radicals can find covalent binding, be it in the encompassing spell of gentle electronic soundscapes (see the label's Pop Ambient series), or in the trickier shufflestep (their Schaffelfieber is another comp thread altogether). The label's mild embracing of pop, which was made obvious in recent releases (see T. Raumschmiere's Komeit, or Superpitcher's recent remixes of Dntel, Quarks, and Eno), is immediately detectable here, as the comp opens with recent Force Inc signee SCSI9 having a go at Duran Duran's \"All She Wants Is\". As Anton Kubinov washes out Stephen Duffy's insipid vocal line with dubby bubbles, soaring synth vapors, and crisp digital creaks, singer Phong Sui's limp vocalise of \"You wasted every summer, you wasted every day\" fades into the slapping beat of Burger/Voigt's contribution, \"Wintermute\". M. Mayer, one of the pillars of the label, brings a basketball sample to dribble out a beat on his deadpan personification of \"Speaker\". It's eventually joined by a clapping hihat and smaller percolating elements that wiggle in amongst the Kompakt cogs, their hooks worming in effortlessly. Justus Köhncke's \"Homogen\" conjures up a hazy conga pattern and pillfried guitar lick that Arif Mardin or the Salsoul Orchestra could have cooked up, which mixes with echoing percussion to create a puddle of beatless mindmelt on the discofloor before phasing back into crystalline focus for the fantastic finale, in which a billowing, arpeggiated cloud swallows every last bit of sound. Superpitcher steps up again with the sporeific stomp of \"Mushroom\", all fat, slippery fungoid bass squishes with a Gaseous and, dare I say, haunting, melody rising behind it. Rattling ratchet turns and mechanic scissorsnips orbit the slow, syrupy bass of Mikkel Metal's track, an echoing guitar plucked and vocoded suggestion injected for melodic good measure. And finally, Jonas Bering brings the hourplus of new music to a close with the slow reshuffling of Basic Channel and classic krautrock elements on \"Normandie 2\". Some cogs get replaced, but the elements remain the same, be they gaseous, liquid, or solid, and even as the seasons change, Kompakt slightly changes up their approach while remaining as comfortable and dependable as ever. "}