{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2006/homepage_large.d2616315.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2006","text":" Kompakt's Pop Ambient series, currently in its sixth edition, is a lowkey affair all the way around. No one expects these roundups to be barometers of a subgenre's health, the way the label's Total comps can be; no ground is broken in terms of form or technology. The Pop Ambients arrive without much of fanfare and are consistently enjoyable if rarely revelatory. The differences from year to year are subtle and have more to do with curatorial whim than any overriding trends.Pop Ambient 2006 gets its particular flavor from artists that seem particularly enamored of the sound of traditional stringed instruments. More than half the tracks make prominent use of guitar or piano, often untreated, which often has an odd dating effect, drawing the mind back to sampleheavy ambient house of the early 90s. At its best, as on Uli Teichmann's opening \"Piano Tec\", the electroacoustic blend conjures the gloriously adventurous Cluster in their mid70s heyday. Elsewhere, the choice of sounds seems more formulaic. Markus Guentner & La Grande Illusion's static \"Baghira\", built around a simple loop of a plucked guitar chord, aims for poignancy and doesn't come close. The best moments come when producers step outside established templates. The Orb's \"Edelgrün\", with its guitar strum, piano chord loop, and bouncy rhythm, exits the background zone completely and serves as relaxed (and quite wonderful) instrumental pop. A stranger twist comes from the inclusion of two cover songs, an idea that would have been unthinkable on the vaporous and abstract Pop Ambient 2001. Sebastian Meissner's Klimek confronts one of the giants of the genre as he pairs with a harpist to tackle Satie's \"Gymnopedie #1\". It's a respectful deconstruction, with only a couple stutters and a smidge of digital noise to let us know we're not listening to the soundtrack to a credit card commercial; the melody is as detached and lovely as ever. Far more compelling is Justus Köhncke & Fred Heimermann take on Fleetwood Mac's laidback instrumental \"Albatross\", which brilliantly buries the original guitar refrain original under a sequence of percussive guitar plucks and a thick layer of frosted processing. Pass Into Silence's \"Iceblink\" and Mikkel Metal's \"Decline\" hearken back to Pop Ambient's original sonic inspiration, the percolating organic drone lateperiod work of Wolfgang Voigt's Gas project, but these cottony blissouts are few. Instead we get a more tuneful Pop Ambient with a slight classicist bent. Tasteful as ever, which cuts both ways. "}