{"label":" Grey Past","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2007/homepage_large.17ef9fcd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nicholas B. Sylvester","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Steam Kodok: 26 A Go-Go Ultrarities from the Sixties Singapore and South-East Asia Underground","text":" For the Grey Past imprint, \"agogo\" seems to encompass everything from beat to 50s soul to surf rock to psychedelia, and for this reason whether it's intentional or not Steam Kodok thankfully avoids a major pitfall many ethnic samplers plunge headlong into: all too often, the songs are so similar, it makes for a bloated and tedious compilation. Anyone aroused at the mere mention of 60s beat probably already owns Steam Kodok, but beyond its topical value, this compilation is a remarkable historical document of the effect rock music had on the rest of the world, particularly the East. Up until 1961, the SouthEast Asian scene was almost entirely instrumental; music was situational: culturally significant, but otherwise insignificant per se. As the Western influence crept in via the increasingly popular Beatles and, says Grey Past, a late 1961 concert by Cliff Richard and The Shadows, SouthEast Asia eschewed the musical collective and embraced the concept of the \"band\" steady members, writing songs for their own entertainment. Beyond \"significance,\" though, these songs are utterly enjoyable. SouthEast Asian musicians were hardly bigbudget pop stars, nor did they taut extensive rock pedigrees, and therein lies the charm of Steam Kodok: singers' voices are incongruous but delightfully honest, and the actual compositions though necessarily somewhat derivative have such a passion that even track 21's notefornote aping of a Carlos Santana solo is forgiven. The positive energy of each song is just staggering Steam Kodok is the sound of a culture thrilled by the prospect of rockandroll, overjoyed and unable to stop smiling. \"Ali San\" starts things off appropriately, a loungey instrumental with an aching countrywestern melody traded back and forth between guitar and keyboard, haunted every so often by a birdlike flute trill. Steam Kodok aims to present a broad survey of the 60s agogo scene, and instrumental groups were the first among it; the Eastern flair of the song is immediately apparent, and perfectly encapsulates the worldscollide motif to which Grey Past most certainly aspires. As the Singapore beat scene progressed, the singer became more than just an afterthought. Lyrically, there was a predicament: Malay and Chinese were national languages, but English was more popular, and its facility with metaphor certainly made it more conducive to rockandroll's quasipoetry. Steam Kodok presents songs from these three very different traditions, each equally rewarding to Englishspeaking listeners. Regarding the Malay and Chinese lyrics, it is a rare chance to experience vocal melody without the distraction of semiotics (outside of scat singing, of course, whose spontaneity keeps it from achieving the same thoughtfulness of melody). We have no idea what the vocalist is singing in \"Ikan Todak\", for instance, but the very tenor of his voice conveys a level of playfulness so profound, words would have been entirely irrelevant anyway (\"Ikan Todak\", incidentally, means \"swordfish\"). What stands out most in the Englishlanguage cuts is their remarkable simplicity. We tend to think of 60s British and American beat lyrics as utterly quaint and simple how much simpler can you get than \"I want to hold your hand\" or \"You got me so I don't know what I'm doing\"? but emotionally these are pretty complex. Wanting to hold someone's hand carries metaphorical baggage. A commitment is at hand, so to speak, and paradoxically, a larger physical gesture of love, like a kiss, does not mean nearly as much as a simple handhold. When Singapore's the Quests sing, \"You walk with me, you talk with me, and you dance with me,\" \"you'll be my bride,\" and \"I'll be your man,\" they intend no more than just what they say. There is no deeper significance, no implications the words are intended prima facie, and the honesty is hugely endearing. As I mentioned earlier, some melodies on Steam Kodok are taken directly from previous English renditions, with only the lyrics replaced or perhaps translated to the native language. These minor recontextualizations redeem their outplayed originals: anyone who has spent three seconds in a car with a radio has heard the Temptations' \"Get Ready\", and it's a good song, but many of us have tired of its reincarnations as family vacation singalongs. Over time, it seems songs like \"Get Ready\" function more as part of a social fabric than they do as songs themselves the thought of coming back from work and listening to some old Temptations records doesn't appeal to me at any rate. \"Bersedia\" the Malaysian version of \"Get Ready\" by Ismail Haron & The Guys differs from the original only in choice of language, but the variation avails an opportunity to appreciate the song's fantastic melody and snareonone backbeat, the elements that made \"Get Ready\" an immediate classic in the first place. Steam Kodok is doubly redemptive, in this sense: on one hand, it rescues otherwise forgotten moments in a rich 60s SouthEast underground culture; on the other, it makes relevant again our own rich musical history, which we rarely consider on a strictly aesthetic level. Beyond the thought that informed this carefully considered compilation, what fascinates me even more is how powerful of an artform rockandroll had become, especially so early in its lifetime. Freedome, fame, fun...it was immediately relevant to so many different cultures. The genre, as Steam Kodok's very existence would suggest, was instantly politicized, and theretofore has brought together otherwise completely dissimilar cultures, each enchanted by the possibility of creating something that might transcend petty but very real social differences that keep us apart. It speaks to the faculty of art in general, and, given the historical background of Steam Kodok's contributors, one can only wonder what might have happened in the 1960s had we traded in grenades for guitars and pistols for paintbrushes. "}