{"label":" Saddle Creek","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2009/homepage_large.c7ac5b17.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Saddle Creek 50","text":" We pop gobblers are allowing a dark harvest to be reaped. We gaze from our corduroy futons as a strange breed the photogenic entrench themselves around us. Numbed by our prioritization of hottiedom, we fail to imagine the entertainment dawn ahead, when no ugly (or even homely or everypersonlooking) talents are left in the spotlight. Who among the current crop of shellacked chesthairs will inherit Christopher Walken's seat at the hall of goons? Will news anchors finally be replaced by seductobots, completing their \"evolution\" from those crustyoldwhitey beginnings? Will our children ask us to explain how Joey Ramone's visage ever escaped mandatory veiling? (The female version of this looksharp arc is even more distressing...) The acts on Saddle Creek Records are effervescently photogenic. Pictures of them are taken, and published, accordingly, to provide a record of how far inland the epidermal epidemic has spread. Before that strapping Conor Oberst belted his woes around the world, Omaha was considered by many outsiders as one of those zones in which no one could hear you scream. Now, just as several eminent indie labels have done (Merge, Matador, etc), the Creek is celebrating itself and thanking its fans with a budgetpriced, twodisc rostershowcase that balances the previously available with the unreleased, a selfconsciously calmer election than the sometimes redundant or crass \"classics\"/\"rarities\" dichotomy. The compilation also reinforces the cultural significance of ten when it is multiplied by five. Like the Drag City inbred buddy system, but cuter, Saddle Creek is rife with acts which are sideprojects or recombinations of the label's key players: Now It's Overhead, whose two tracks showcase their shuffly R.E.Mism, contains Azure Ray, whose two tracks convey their evolution from gorgeous violin naifery to confident 4ADcaliber atmospherics. Desaparecidos is, of course, Bright Eyes with distortion; they include their album's most heartbreaking divorce anthem and a new song that actually benefits from the crapscrapey production bonding its nukepropaganda reels (\"This explosion is one of the most beautiful sights ever seen by man\"), its Tostitocrisp guitarvalanche (the chips are even featured backstage on one of this disc's 45 tedious/harmless film clips), and Oberst's panicattack stylings (\"I don't want to fight in a war/ I don't want to fight in a war/ I don't want to fight in a war\"). The lyrics don't offer anything newer than, say, that decadeold teamup between Slayer and IceT, but \"war sucks\" appears to have attained profoundbanality status, and we are thusly obliged to favor its reiterations. About the Bright Eyes song: Yes, it perpetuates Oberst's long ride atop a champion thoroughbred named Contradiction Shitstorm, as he auditions for the lead in The Strange Case of Dr. Cobain and Mr. Sting. The song's lyrics teeter from fascinatingly perceptive to idiotically obvious, from piercing to quaint (aww, who still says \"made love\"?), from immediate to warmedover. An ambitious screed about warculture, ennui, eclipsed optimism, moodswings, and the weight of sex, the song flirts with its brilliant pop instincts but gets all complicated by the Saddle Creek soundalike syndrome, that tincture of Counting Crowsiness that is selfloving, but masochistically, reveling in the construction of altars to one's problems. At his best, Oberst is a conscientious and uninhibited examiner of manic yesterdays and corporate tomorrows; at his worst, he seems to be oversqueezing his teats to spray his audience with his precious soulmilk. Elsewhere: The Good Life remains a darker and often deliberately poppier reservoir for Cursive's emoid frontman the former's new song is an insidiously catchy Curehomaging moper, and the latter's \"Nonsense\" suffers from the risk it takes blending Bachmannskronk with Smurfscat. Mayday, whom you might know as Lullaby for the Working Class, don't outshine their hymnic alreadyavailable \"Captain\". Rilo Kiley includes her concertclosing chantalong \"With Arms Outstretched\", and an urgent femmePavement nugget either about depression or anorexia, or at least menstruation. Son, Ambulance won't escape \"miniBrightEyes\" dismissal, which is unfortunate because his artycruiseship arrangements are so strong, and he's able to write and sing (though in a voice very similar to Oberst's) about a wider range of subjects. Sorry About Dresden prove that they deserve better than being considered the label's Cracker or Spin Doctors; see their Rousing Critique of the Superficiality of Hanging Out #345 entitled \"People Have Parties\". (Interestingly, The Faint side project Broken Spindles and Desaparecidos side project Statistics found homes on other labels.) But my secret obsession, The Faint, own this comp's finest moments with their practicespace jam, \"Take Me to the Hospital\". The Faint are muchreviled for being unnecessary arbiters of humpme dystopia, but mang, they pretty much rule. Their debut is embarrassing (ahem, see Forkpraised fadboys The Rapture's trajectory, cough, ahem), yet the synth overhaul of The Faint's 1999 sophomore effort beat a lot of the current keyboard/dance voguers to the punch. \"Hospital\", for all its cheerleader nothingness (\"Want you to take me the H/ Take me to the O/ want you take me to the S...\") is a booming, spiraling, handclapping, screeching, futro masterwork of a Various Artists tossoff. Perhaps The Faint's next fulllength will tone down their conceptalbum inclinations as they embrace the fun of being frontrunners of a wave of, uh, rerunners, making the years between !!! and Sexual Harassment, or Ladytron and Romeo Void, seem like an instant. Let's hope former skateboarder and frontman Todd Baechle doesn't end up singing to Muppets in Labyrinth Reloaded. When I set out to follow The Faint for four days, bringing some brusque friends to annoy them and offset their borderline vapidity and nauseating photogenicness, I sent the band this fallacious letter, angry about The Faint's most recent \"anticorporate\" album: \"Why the fanrape, you culturejuhhuhhammers? I just bought some tickets for The Faint, and was also forced to fuel an SUV for a Ticketmaster exec. WHAT THE FUCK? Why are you Total Jobbers with Ticketmaster? In case you don't know: THE FEES COST MORE THAN TWO TICKETS. For four tickets I paid 12 + 12 + 10 + 10 = 44. For the FUCKING \"convenience and processing\" fees I paid 4.25 + 4.25 +4.25 + 4.25 (convenience, to lubricate me) + 4.25 + 4.25 (processing, the actual ream) = 26 DOLLARS. FUCK YOU. I watched nonmallpunks have to shrug and go home, unable to buy tickets. I recommended they start swooning for Dischord bands. Rich kids, however, will be there for every subversive throb and squeal. Eddie Vedder's your outcredder. This seems cynical of you folks. Am I supposed to feel bad about the prospect of copying CDs for others from a fave label anymore? Am I supposed to get the same econocritique rush from yer lyrics? Am I supposed to not chuck Saddle Creek 50 into a landfill?\" Etc. The Faint wrote back, noting with accuracy that I was a \"rude person,\" and that they'd try to make other arrangements in the future (some of their gear was stolen days later). Anyway: My eternally drunken sidekick condemned Saddle Creek 50 as \"the longest song I've ever heard,\" and I'll admit to being traumatized by a selfimportant soundman's mocking my status as the only person old enough to vote at a recent Cursive show. But The Faint's lovable fashiondreck saves the Nebraska label's crew from sounding like children of the corn. I don't regret a minute of those consecutive days of being a pathetic Fainthead, even though I got so poisoned that I spraypainted my Mazda hot pink and ended up passed out on a faraway beach holding a hammer instead of my glasses. Police woke me to ask if I knew the naked woman in the water on PCP. My friends and I watched as the officers hauled her away. The scene would have made a perfect Faint video. "}