{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/202/homepage_large.eed69aae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Anomoanon","title":"Portrait of Entwistle EP","text":" The glorious Who, with their bursting bass drums and bombastic, volumedefeating live shows, were a band who churned expressly for openmouthed adolescents: Like sniffing glue or dying your hair four shades of magenta, discovering The Who is an action best indulged before the age of eighteen. Consequently, anyone who spent the better part of high school strapped into headphones memorizing Who's Next probably felt a little green when bassist John Entwistle died unexpectedly in a Vegas hotel room in June of 2002. Music consumed during adolescence automatically assumes a kind of epic significance, having wiggled its way into swelling, nubile hearts, seeping deep into growing bones, forging a gummy, undeviating bond be it teenage idealism or thickheaded naiveté, that kind of total assimilation never happens again, or at least not in the same stupid, beautiful way. The Anomoanon's boisterous tribute to John Entwistle seems like the logical expression of that appreciation, whether a product of the band's own affection or simply a reflection of universal, seeping Entwistle love; either way, Portrait provides a scrappy, glowing homage to one of rock's greatest players.Portrait of Entwistle is the fourth installation in Western Vinyl's Portrait Series, a collection that works on a spectacular, albeit crazily ambitious, conceit: Each artist produces or procures a visual portrait (a photo, line drawing, painting, etc.), and then records two or more songs inspired by the subject of that picture (past contributors include Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy, Papa M, Appendix Out, and Kohn, and new work is forthcoming from The Dirty Three's Mick Turner and Robert Lippok of To Rococo Rot). With three originals and a cover of \"Heaven and Hell\", the fifth track off Entwistle's first solo record, 1971's Smash Your Head Against the Wall, Portrait of Entwistle is a comprehensive, brooding representation of both the record's spectral, bleeding sleeveart (check a blurry, veinaddled skull topped with rockready devil horns) and the wispy, squinting spirit of Entwistle himself. The Anomoanon is anchored by Ned Oldham, whose walloping, pointy voice is so Oldham it tickles, and he's supported here by an expectedly massive (and mostly familiar) crew: otherbrother Paul Oldham, Aram Stith, Jason Stith, Dave Heumann, Jack Carneal, Mike Portera, Tony Bailey, and Willy MacNeal. Opening with Entwistle's \"Heaven and Hell\", a prodding, bottomheavy rocker as good as anything Townshend ever scripted, the track morbidly wonders, \"Why can't we have eternal life/ And never die?\" Aram Stith's halfmuted, perfectly sloppy soloing scribbles throughout, aptly resurrecting the kicky spirit of Entwistle's solo work, and showcasing Anomoanon's penchant for antifolk noise. Layered over dark, distorted crashes, \"Cherries\" features lyrics snatched from a poem by C.M. Barker, who wrote about fairies for the whimsical depressionbabies of the late 1920s. The choice to echo Barker's scented kidsentiments is hilariously unsurprising for Anomoanon, considering 1999's fulllength homage to Robert Louis Stevenson's A Child's Garden of Verses. \"Two Eyes Wild\" is rollicking countryfolk, as infatuated with Neil Young as it is with Entwistle proper, falling out in a coil of wild feedback. And finally, closer \"John Entwistle\" is a long, loping quasiballad told from Entwistle's point of view (\"I don't do what Peter did/ I don't do what Roger did/ I don't do what Moony did/ I don't do what the others did\"), haunted by yawning slide, pointed acoustic plucks, and general NedasEntwistle vocal creepiness until the entire band somersaults into a tinny \"I Can See for Miles\"ish crash, and The Who are reborn as clanging Tennessee teenagers. With the bass quivering loud up front. "}