{"label":" DFA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2015/homepage_large.009ac858.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Various Artists","title":"DFA Records Presents: Compilation #1","text":" The Neptunes of the discopunk underground have finally released their answer to Clones: the DFA's Compilation #1, for the first time, compiles all the Brooklynbased production duo's hypebuilding twelveinches, from The Juan MacLean's straightforward electro singles \"By the Time I Get To Venus\" and \"You Can't Have It Both Ways\", to James Murphy's famously tongueincheek \"Losing My Edge\" and decidedly less danceable \"Give It Up\", to The Rapture's \"House of Jealous Lovers\" the track that more or less made the DFA the internationally renown playboys they are today and the mellow vocal dawn of its Bside, \"Silent Morning\", to Black Dice's danceperimental rockers \"Cone Toaster\" and \"Endless Happiness\". With the exception of the Black Dice track, all of these songs were released last year, and by now, it's safe to say that most indie music fanatics have heard, owned on vinyl, or downloaded sketchy OggVorbis wax rips of them. This disc means iPodders can now download cleaner versions for their commutes, but after months and months of \"Losing My Edge\" witty and brilliant though it may be most listeners have already moved onto newer DFA releases like the new LCD Soundsystem single, \"Yeah\", which is currently widely available despite its vinylonly status. At the moment, Compilation #1 to a large degree functions more as an archival folio for early DFA output; in itself, it's a fantastic comp, but perhaps it came a little too late. In time, the songs themselves will undoubtedly regain much of their initial potency, but for now, one can't help but be at least somewhat bored with the exact same song and dance. Maybe that's one of the keys their success, though: Despite having released virtually just singles, the DFA have managed to become the most formidable production team on the indie scene. Their sole employment of vinyl an ever scarcer medium for a selfselecting crowd of hardcore music lovers created one of the most effective buzz mechanisms I can remember. Perhaps their only recent musical supplyvsdemand equals are the robber barons of Jamaican dub soundsystems. Any schmuck who's read Walter Benjamin can tell you that there's a relationship between a piece of art's exclusivity and the vitality of its aura; it's nothing new here, but the DFA is exceptionally textbook. Moreover, this is a commendable act of selfpreservation. Look at what's happened with The Neptunes: their immediately recognizable bump/grind formula made them the most relevant producers in hiphop; but now, through oversaturation, too many commissions and not enough time to develop new musical ideas, their popularity has begun to wane. The DFA could be to all of rock what The Neptunes are to hiphop there are more than a few tales of major pop stars knocking at their door but Goldsworthy and Murphy opt instead to issue mix albums for obscure French clothing outlets and electronic music magazines. For all intents and purposes, their exclusivity maintains their credibility, and refuses any possible allegations that they are a onetrick dancepunk pony. The compilation is indeed called Compilation #1, and implies not only more material in the future as is obvious, but a commitment to growth and diversity in their production as well. To hell with the kids; the DFA ain't losing its edge at all. "}