{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2020/homepage_large.aa142a83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Spire: Organ Works Past, Present & Future","text":" In the liner notes of Spire: Organ Works Past, Present & Future, Touch's Mike Harding claims \"It is impossible to overestimate the influence of the organ on the history of music and sound.\" Indeed, dating from before Christianity, the organ has undergone changes in both physical construction and musical importance. Today, many people probably think of churches as the best place to see and hear organs, but the instrument was at first rejected by Christian authorities for being too associated with secular music. In the Middle Ages, organs were first built into churches, though even then only to appease growing secular political powers. The instruments were soon built as part of the churches themselves, and anyone who has seen a particularly impressive organ towering over church patrons in an old cathedral can attest to their intimidating presence. However, to connect this ancient instrument to modern music and sound design (as Touch appears to do with this compilation), you have to look at arguably the most important aspect of the organ: chiefly, it represents the first time man attempted to create music using mechanical means, and in the process allowed him to create music theretofore unimagined. The first Greek organs were powered by air pumped from pockets of pressure inside a bucket submerged in water. Thus, it became possible to perform music without ever having to take a breath. Furthermore, organs were soon able to emit tones beyond the range or volume of any traditional instrument. In short, almost every musical tool, piece of electronic equipment or software can be traced back to this thing. Viva la pertinence.Spire is a collection of pieces \"inspired or more directly influenced\" by the organ, featuring a few Touch mainstays like Christian Fennesz, Philip Jeck and Biosphere, as well as actual organ composers like Marcus Davidson. In reality, very few of the tracks are actual organ performances. Most treat the instrument as merely a source, making Spire something of a radical organ remix record. Step back a few and it also works as pure ambience the naturally rich, rounded tone of the organs played or sampled overwhelms any attempts to subvert it. However, the twodisc collection also acts as a rare look back among contemporary electronica composers and producers at their \"roots.\" Perhaps the day when we think of our generation's electronic music as being part of the same canon as the organ's isn't far ahead. Fennesz works with Sparklehorse's Scott Minor on \"Dwan\", a track they began working on while in residence at a Geneva festival. Performed on a distorted Wurlitzer organ, the track moves from staticridden clusters to phased, melancholy progressions. At 2\\xBD minutes, it ends far too quickly to really establish much mood, rather seeming like a quick summary instead of a finished piece. Similarly, Jeck's \"Stops\" is prefaced by a quote from famed French composer Olivier Messiaen, who contributed some of the most amazing music for organ of the 20th Century. In English, it reads, \"Music does not express anything directly,\" and is a perfect preamble to the dense wall of distortion Jeck applies to his major chord. Messiaen's quote betrays his beliefs in musical impressionism by way of Debussy (who also gets a quote in the booklet), and suits the often mysterious qualities of Spire. Biosphere's \"Visible Invisible\" is an original performance, and features the solemn tones of church organ as you might hear during a funeral Mass. He uses the instrument as a calming force, constructing the entirely uncluttered piece from overlapping consonances. It's the aural equivalent of faint blue and purple watercolors running together into a formless cushion. \"Askam Wind Cluster\", by erstwhile Cabaret Voltaire and Hafler Trio member Chris Watson, goes for the arch concept by forming his piece not from an actual organ, but from wind's convection currents, presumably acting in a similar way to air within the pipes of an organ. The rhythmic \"beat\" of currents demonstrates essentially pure ambience, and also a deceptively simple process of how organ music is produced. Z'EV contributes \"If Only That Love Lets Letting Happen (Organ Music for Organs)\", composed from fragments of Bach's \"Wenn Nur Den Lieben Gott Laesst Walten\", and like Biosphere, creates sweet, mystic calm out of overlapping tones. This is a far cry from Icelandic composer Finnbogi Petursson's \"Diabolus\", wherein two subsonic organ tones create a \"tritone\" interval, at one time referred to by Church musicians as the \"devil in music\" due to its extreme dissonance. Well, that's the idea anyway; Petursson's piece mostly seems like lowlevel hum unless you really get up close to your speakers (at which time you may experience some light nausea!). If you have zero interest in a bunch of guys playing with organs, Spire works about as well as any compilation featuring the same cast of characters would. Over time, Touch has left its brand on a whole school of sound design that takes into account classical and natural phenomena, so this set should at least be pretty cool for people already into their roster. Of course, you don't need any special appreciation of organ music to enjoy this, but it's sometimes reassuring to know the new kids still remember their basics. "}