{"label":" Erstwhile","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2021/homepage_large.1cfafa1e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Amplify 2002","text":" This balloon is filled with water. I took it to the sink, attached it to the faucet, and let the water in until the slack in the balloon's thin, rubber walls was gone and the water occupied as much space inside as possible, while still allowing me to remove it from the small hydrant and tie up the end. A full balloon is kind of perverse; it begs to be exploded, and if I lived two floors up, I probably would have dropped it to the sidewalk without a second thought. The water has nowhere to go from within, and the tight, bulging skin of the ball is so reminiscent of a young woman's breast that most people are embarrassed to hold one. However, the most interesting part of a full balloon is not on the outside, but its saturated inner vacuum of water and captive air. If I could swim on the inside of this balloon, I would hardly last more than a few seconds before my head burst. The pressure, already near a critical point, would be magnified every time someone handled the outside, shifting currents of force inside, similar to the earth's tremors in the deep sea. The only way to escape the chamber is to release pressure and hope that in the minute, violent transition from the point of explosion to its surging release I'm not blown to bits as well. This is the crux of high pressure: can't live with it, and sometimes its release causes even more damage. Onkyo appeared in Japan in the late 90s, as sort of an inverse of noise music and typically Japanese extreme renderings of free jazz and improvisation. Music writer Patrick Boeuf states as much during a short, interesting essay inside the Amplify 2002 booklet. He notices the tendency for intense upper register tones juxtaposed with silence, and I would apply their relationship to the tension and release of pressure inside the balloon. Judging by the nature of its participants' performances, Onkyo (fitting under a wider umbrella of \"electroacoustic improvisation\") is a study in the transition between almost unbearable pressure and tiny resolve. Where silence builds considerable, tangible tension, more so when a large ensemble is able to sustain it for long periods, the minimal sound put forth by guitar, sampler, mixingboard or whatever Otomo Yoshihide was pounding on during his duo show with Günter Müller represents the tease of resolution. It's a tease because with Onkyo, there's never really a full release. This is part of what makes it different from noise, and in fact, most other music on the planet. The Amplify box set (seven music CDs, one DVD) documents a festival of the same name organized by the Erstwhile label's Jon Abbey, with assistance from Headz label owner Atsushi Sasaki, and musicians Toshimaru Nakamura and Taku Sugimoto. Held over three days in Tokyo, October 2002, Amplify subtitled \"balance\" featured the bestknown Japanese Onkyo performers, as well as European improvisers Müller, Keith Rowe, Bukhard Stangl, Thomas Lehn, Marcus Schmickler and Christof Kurzmann, who, while not following the same paths as the Japanese musicians, are certainly among the most respected electro acoustic improvisers today. In fact, it's the differing approaches of the Europeans and Japanese on Amplify that contributes some of the tension; here, that is inherently a good thing. I was most fascinated by Jonas Leddington's DVD documentary feature \"balance beams,\" comprised of several performances, interviews, 5.1 surround sound mixes and subtle, hypnotic scenes of Tokyo street life. As much as modern electronic improvisation might seem visually irrelevant, Abbey correctly points out in the booklet that there's no substitute for witnessing this music. Performance highlights on the DVD include an incredible show by Cosmos (Sachiko M and vocalist Ami Yoshida), Otomo and Müller's show featuring the aforementioned pounding session and a frenetic set by Lehn and Schmickler, wherein sounds (and body movements) fly by faster than my eyes can process. The final audio CD of Amplify contains a performance of seven guitar players, and Rowe's \"treatise\" with the musicians on the DVD is a humbling, funny peek at how up in the air this music must be, even for its major proponents. Earlier, Rowe admits to having few ideas about how he will proceed even as his fingers approach his guitar at the start of a performance, though somehow the uncertainty surrounding this music seems perfectly appropriate. The audio CDs are divided into festival shows (discs three through six), shows organized around the festival by Nakamura and Sugimoto (one and seven) and one new studio release by Nakamura and Müller entitled Tint. Tint will doubtlessly be of interest to fans of both performers, and doubles as fine case on the differing approaches between Onkyo and European electronic improvisation. Nakamura's perfect sine, emitted from his signature noinput mixing board, hovers above Müller's more traditionally expressionist, laptopassisted sounds. In some instances, Müller actually provides a rhythmic pulse, and though his preference for sudden changes in tone and mood should conflict with Nakamura's relatively serene, minimal style, I find the result more along the lines of a summit between two colleagues; one gushing with enthusiasm and exotic detail, the other nodding and smiling politely. Of the festival discs, my favorite performances begin with Cosmos' set at the start of disc three. For my money, Sachiko M and Yoshida, along with Nakamura and Sugimoto, are the most purely representative of the Onkyo sound and concept. Sachiko's sine acts as both a piercing, desperate stream of air escaping from the balloon, and as a thin blanket of light enveloping the entire ceiling of Cosmos' performance. In turn, Yoshida is the embodiment of pressure and release, as she contracts her chest and throat muscles to form seemingly inhuman (and sometimes almost imperceptible) sounds. Their track is an inspiring model of tension and the companionship required for an artistic duo. Likewise, Müller and Otomo's performance on disc four is the work of two seasoned improvisers exploring their equipment, and one another. I think Otomo (using guitar, turntable and electronics) is a better natural fit for Müller than Nakamura, if only because the pair seems to have similar ideas about how to fill detail into space. Fans of atmospheric IDM along the lines of Fennesz or Philip Jeck would do well to listen to this duo's set. AMM alum Rowe performs with frequent partner Nakamura on disc five in what is probably the greatest surprise for me on Amplify. It's a surprise because of the consistently understated dynamics and progression of ideas. I had seen the duo in Houston last year, where Rowe offered much busier (and I think less effective) counterpoint to Nakamura's restrained mixing board emissions. Here, the two are content to wallow in pressure without the slightest hint of stress. Contrast this with the NakamuraLehn duo on disc one, as Lehn's versatile analog synthesizer creates sounds ranging from insect calls to industrial hum to barely existent electrostatic. If at first Lehn's performance seems eclectic to a fault, all the more surprising then to witness his gradual concession to Nakamura's persistent sine in the track's second half. Despite the volume of material to digest with Amplify, my impression is that it represents a momentary transition. Utah Kawasaki (half of Astro Twin, along with Yoshida) writes in the booklet about his curiosity with the future of this music. If there is a single thesis present in Amplify, it's that in meetings between Eastern and Western musicians, over the course of a single, extended event, whatever aim this small group of people shared will have changed slightly. Or, it will have been refined and improved. Even as a consequence of releasing pressure is that the original form loses its substance, nothing prevents new forms from being created, explored and eventually spawning still more. Abbey's box set raises a signpost for the persistent change and transient brilliance of these musicians' work. "}