{"label":" World Music Network","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2022/homepage_large.29bbecbf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Rough Guide to African Rap","text":" A major music critic I formerly held in some esteem last year proposed, in a flurry of stale, selfannihilating wit, that \"there was only one thing more dystopic and frightening than [Company Flow]; I believe it was called the Zaire dictatorship.\" First of all, maybe a certain international publication should learn some grammar rules. Secondly, it turns out the Zaire dictatorship has inadvertently inflamed some of the best hiphop of the last decade. The Rough Guide series has never been particularly relevant (unless one considers classical compositions from feudal Beijing in tune with today's Billboard heatseekers). How they'll ever manage to convince enough geriatric socialites to purchase a compilation focusing on what will eventually be the hippest genre in the Rocafella world is one for the ages. In case you've forgotten, the last significant encounter with African rap was Dead Prez's description of the continent as \"camouflage fatigues and dashikis, somewhere between NWA and PE,\" which makes Africa sound less like a diverse and gigantic continent and more like an army surplus store. The problem, of course, is that in the era this compilation charts (19892000), portions of Africa actually were a QuarterMaster Supply Store. Adding innumerable cases of an inexorably deadly disease to the poverty, rampant carnage, and natural disasters didn't exactly help matters. Coming to this compilation from a culture where the most pressing social issue is Ludacris' right to sell Pepsi is like walking straight into The Garden of Progressive Socialism. The parties on this disc are not based on bling or bounce, but on stifling child abuse, AIDS and civil war. This is not most people's definition of a raging block party. And the artists here are well aware of how difficult it is to instill enlightening, even revolutionary, sentiments into svelte, mellow jazz and calypso samples. The opener, \"Right Here in Front of You\", opens with frond eaves whispering over crystal percussion, abating brass patches, and lulling clicks and hums. But the chorus might as well be off It Takes a Nation of Millions and the lyrics assail everything from gun control laws to carbon dioxide and dodecahedronhaters amongst such elliptical sensejumbles as, \"Mainstream, can I piss in a puddle/ Then represent a bug like a kiss in a cuddle?\" Let's see the mainstream get out of that one. Ghana's Reggie Rockstone injects \"Eye Mo De Anna\" with cracking planks of Fela samples, but litters it with apocalyptic catastrotympanis and clinically insane mutterings about Pope John Paul and Columbus. Mozambique's Mabulu lounges in a disconcerting marrabenta shanty before a young upstart with a gruff, cavernous cry goes Groucho all over the senior citizen cruise ship. Oh, and it was recorded in the middle of the worst flood since Noah. Kanye West's jaw has nothing to complain about now. Things tend to encroach upon hardcore rap deep within the second side, where even the softest song pledges that \"my Babylon eats suckas for breakfast.\" Cape Town's Prophets of Da City is a sustained basement rumble that creeps through drowning alto to reach a flow that uncannily resembles Del tha Funkee Homosapien as it reels off an inner city hit list with an idolatry so ironic it's almost imperceptible at times. Similarly, we might as well just call off the race and proclaim Kalamashaka's \"Ni Wakati\" the apex of globehop or Diasporarap or whatever we call these sorts of things. Like all great political rap intros, a Malcolm X sample manifests a Mafiosi Mancini riff clouded by rasping, stultified Swahili, like Mobb Deep with severe lung damage. \"Msimu Kwa Msimu\" is all rattling violin histrionics severed by absorbed synths and dire handclaps, and, like all great pop songs, I have absolutely no idea what the lyrics mean. This raises the question of whether it's simply ignorant to listen to rap performed in obscure languages that have essentially no decipherable cognates. Put it like this: Pee Froiss' \"Djalgaty\" is regrettably the African version of \"Make 'Em Say Ugh\", but no one will even remember the beat because the lunatic lyricists are running a scorchedearth campaign through everyone's brains in the Wolof dialect. As this is a \"rap and rapinspired\" comp, a few songs coast in on good faith, shutting down any momentum and failing to really serve as primers to these other permutations of African \"rap.\" While it would be heresy to denounce Manu Dibango (of African Jazz fame), his contribution is the definition of anonymous \"world music,\" with harmless, desensitized flute and sax solos falling asleep to one another. Unless you're making out or on a family road trip (or some combination of the two), there's no reason to twiddle your thumbs through eight minutes of this. Those jokers at Rough Guide shouldn't be blamed for these lapses, though. They're trying to summarize an entire continent of music and that's simply too daunting for one album. Necessarily, many luminaries and trendsetters from dozens of countries were neglected. If there was a North American version of this, it would include KCi & Jojo, Cannibal Ox, and \"Pretty Fly (for a White Guy)\", and it would be enough of a disaster to hit an 8.2 on the Richter scale. In contrast, the genius of this album is that it locates the subtle differences while retaining a motivated sense of cohesiveness which is impressive when you're dealing with all of Africa. "}