{"label":" Box Tree","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/203/homepage_large.c6ba8dd7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Anomoanon","title":"The Derby Ram","text":" The Anomoanon can be a painfully organic outfit, evoking craggy branches, rotted bark, and wellpacked dirtballs. Subsequently, listening to their latest record, The Derby Ram, feels a little bit like squeezing your eyes shut and chugging a giant mug of swamp water and blindly swallowing your way to a big, natural communion. But before you start conjuring pictures of handmade corduroys and hackeysacks, know that The Anomoanon are hardly hosting a gooey, neoDead flower fest The Derby Ram is overloaded with cheworbechewed choices, and it's Ned Oldham's toothy ferocity that makes their jamwankery so telling and immediate, the story of the forest as told by ripping Fenders. Miraculously, The Anomoanon have seized the Dead's scrappy, rollicking prowess, but eschewed their tyedyed, hideyourjointinyourbeard meandering: The Anomoanon shoot to kill. For years, rock music has been tethered to one lone, misconstrued apex: the presumably unparalleled magic of the late 1960s. Check every Rolling Stone special issue, cable TV retrospective, and White Stripes review (almost all of which overflow with wistful, \"golden age\" laments) critics may spit and squabble about the technicalities, but most just clench their fists and insist that shit was so, so much better 35 years ago. The Anomoanon may remind us, at least peripherally, of why 1968 has been so stupidly puffed up, but their methods are more adventurous than derivative. All of the music on The Derby Ram was written by Oldham (The Anomoanon itself rotates through players, although Aran Stith, Jack Carneal and Willy MacLean have all made multiple appearances), but the lyrics here are simply credited as \"traditional\" given 1998's Mother Goose, which recounted the old Mother Goose fairy tales, and 1999's A Child's Garden of Verses, based on Robert Louis Stevenson's collection of the same name, it's hardly surprising that Oldham has once again shied away from scribbling his own words. Still, the traditional lyrics included on The Derby Ram are the perfect compliment to The Anomoanon's sprawling, bizarre countryrock, which seems as displaced and poetically nonsensical as the snatches of verse it showcases. Each of The Derby Ram's 12 tracks coalesce effortlessly, perfectly anchored by the eerie (and at over seven minutes epic) title track. \"Bourbon Whiskey/The Derby Ram\" is a brooding, hellish smear of freakedout psychedelia, kicked off by Oldham's interpretation of \"Rye Whiskey\", a traditional folk cut that, incidentally, also appears on Alan Lomax's American Ballads and Folk Songs. With Ned up front, The Anomoanon spew ancient prophecies, as told by squeaky banjoes and throbbing drums. The resulting song is both horrifying and enthralling, a sparse retelling of longburied secrets. It's awfully easy to hop out of your chair and applaud music that successfully wiggles out of contemporary restraints, cracking headon into the future and fashioning a fresh sonic path. But it's equally difficult to afford the exact same courtesy to bands and records that eschew the present by picking loosely through the past. The Anomoanon make ancient, outmoded sounds, all sprawling, plucky guitar and throaty vocals, traditional lyrics and wild, Vietnamera noodling, but rather than sounding familiar or benign, they're brutally anachronistic, proving that, just as a laptop doesn't guarantee innovation, electric guitars can still knock everybody down. "}