{"label":" Gooom","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2026/homepage_large.454dc032.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Gooom Tracks, Vol. 2","text":" Gooom Disques knows what it's working with. The parvenu French label's brand of electronic music is sleek, stylish, and occasionally flashy, but never tawdry. Its artists are young and highly accessible, and their music eschews radicalism and experimentation in favor of a more direct, melodic approach. The result is musically fashionable as only the French could make it: complex, and yet somehow pedestrian. Take, for instance, the artwork on the label's new sampler, Gooom Tracks, Vol. 2: All white text on black background, sansserif font embellished by strokes of sparse graffiti. It's strikingly sophisticated, yet may well have been slapped together in MS Paint perfect for this album of bedroom symphonies from enthusiastic tweens.Gooom Tracks, Vol. 2 features remixes of original works by 16 artists spanning the entire Gooom roster. The theme yields generally interesting and occasionally breathtaking results, albeit working within a far less stringent set of guidelines than many undie electronic mixtapes. Gooom Tracks is more of a sampler squared, purposely packed to the hilt with as many artists as possible. Of course, while it's certainly a colorful and unbridled showcase of over two dozens talents, the format may not be the best or most germane representation of the Gooom roster. But many of these tracks do show prodigious ability and a fluent chemistry that's rare among so large a label. Kicking things off is an acoustic version of Cyann & Ben's \"Buick to the Moon\", a somber, slightly soporific number that shows the group's folktinged electronic songwriting at its most elemental. Backed by mournful organs moving at a funereal pace, the Buick might as well be a hearse, but the song is short enough not to stifle the album's energy before it even gets going. Next is \"Wounded Knee Creek\", a collaboration between Purple Confusion and Bartuf which works well in two respects: Not only does the song, a driving neoshoegaze romp that smacks as much of M83 as it does of powerpop, propel the album with enough energy to sustain the subsequent few tracks, it also segues perfectly into the pitchshifted squeals that introduce Mils' heady remix of Atoms Family's \"High on Life\". That track, though built upon fairly straightforward verseexchange, is pulled to shreds by wanton electronics and reassembled as breakcore. Listening to it is akin to nosebreathing underwater. From there, Gooom Tracks loses nary a step throughout its rousing first half. KG's airy, Rhodesdriven \"S.P.E.C.T.R.E.2\" offers a refreshing counterpoint to the aggressive Mils track, and is anchored by just enough melancholia to keep the lithe instrumentation from blowing away. Featuring an intoxicating vocal melody courtesy of Computer Pink, this deceptively complex track is easily the album's most affecting moment. Similarly effective, though not quite to the same degree, are songs by Steve & Rob, Erich Zahn (ft. Moughqual), and followup appearances by Purple Confusion and Cyann & Ben. Even The Atoms Family's hamfisted, unmolested verses on Abstrackt Keal Agram's \"Street Lamp Confession\" fail to disrupt to the album's structure. Unlike most samplers, Gooom Tracks, Vol. 2 is sectioned into two distinct sides, and begs for vinyl bifurcation. Its diffuse first side delves into various styles, but remains strong, trackfortrack. The cloistered strumming, Gregorian harmonizing, and sucrose electronics of Mils' \"Mardi\", as performed by Cyann & Ben, offers an ideal bookend to side one, and sheds entirely new light on Mils after their ambiguous earlier appearance. Until this point, Gooom Tracks is impressively solid by any measure, and downright spectacular by mixtape standards. The album is holistically disjointed, roundabout in sequence, yet uniquely adherent. Unfortunately, young labels are in many ways like young artists, and their early samplers often resemble debut albums. Gooom Tracks is thus typically frontloaded, and though \"side two\" has its share of promising moments, it seldom approaches the great heights of its opening half. The first misstep is the inclusion of Es La Guerilla's interpretation of Cosmodrome's \"EMail Diamant\". As soon as the wistful embers of \"Mardi\" have fully vaporized, part deux is reigned in by a impudent onslaught of numetal guitars that confuses more than it offends. If nothing else, the song proves Gooom jack of all niches, but is otherwise a somewhat awkward fit, and a harbinger of strange things to come. The remainder of Gooom Tracks is a markedly subdued affair, as if the people who put together the compilation felt the entire second side was needed to shake the hangover from Es La Guerilla's jarring assault. Curiously, the album's biggest names are reserved for its dusky tail end: M83, the stargazing stalwarts that first garnered Gooom attention in the States, are here remixed by Múm. \"Violet Tree (Violent Tree Mix)\" is a brooding, minimalist dirge of atmospheric synths, crackling noise, and sporadic rhythmic punctuation that hints at the darker direction Múm have taken with their music. Capping the record is a highprofile collaboration between Dorine Muraille and Prefuse 73 (in found sound effigy). The song's title, \"When Someone Dies, His Card Is Demagnetized\", is a grim, postmodern epithet, and appropriately, the track is a bleak process piece that ends Gooom Tracks on a pensive offnote. For all its eclecticism, this album is surprisingly cohesive for a work of its kind. Gooom Tracks plays like more of a soundtrack than a sampler, and would probably be received warmly in goodie bags at the upcoming Cannes festival. But the label's doctrines are still truer to teens spinning records in their bedrooms than to the world of high culture. Gooom Tracks, Vol. 2 occasionally awes, but more important is the feeling it gives that anyone could do this, and these songs are surely more than enough impetus for a new crop of laptop maestros to start. "}