{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2031/homepage_large.c7f6734e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Radio Pyongyang: Commie Funk and Agit Pop from the Hermit Kingdom","text":" The latest batch of Sublime Frequencies releases ratchets up the series' fuzzy but omnipresent political backdrop, with collections of music from twothirds of Bush's \"Axis of Evil\" (no music from Iran, yet) in addition to another volume of pop from Myanmar. Among other things these records reverse the vague perception that lands with tyrannical governments and tight media control cease cultural production; in spite of politics, they say, music somehow finds a way. This assemblage of music and radio transmissions from North Korea is in some respects the most intriguing Sublime Frequencies set so far. The Korean peninsula undoubtedly has a rich tradition of folk and pop music, but none of that is on display here. For the last halfcentury in the North, tradition has been subjugated to the \"functional\" art ordained by party leadership. This music is a propaganda tool with songs relentlessly cheering on the glory and accomplishments of the state and, above all, promoting the unimaginably grandiose personality cult of Kim Ilsung and Kim Jongil. By all accounts Kim Jong considers himself an aesthete; he is said to have a personal collection of 15,000 films or more, and in the '70s he had South Korean director Shin Sangok kidnapped and brought North to produce dramas infused with the correct sort of propaganda. Even under the rule of his father, Kim Jongil took a special interest in the country's cultural output, reportedly writing several operas. At this point an entire nation's output of music more or less proceeds according to the tastes of one man.Radio Pyongyang was assembled and edited by Christaan Virant from storebought tapes, short wave recordings from Voice of Korea, television programs, and live performances taped while he traveled as a tourist. Opening with the \"Motherland Megamix\", Radio Pyongyang confirms that, as with the military, the popular music of North Korea doesn't square with the reality of crushing poverty and a population frequently on the brink of mass starvation. The production is positively enormous, plush as one of the great leader's palaces, with mass choirs drenched in reverb exploding forth from the speakers to praise their benefactor. As a purely sonic spectacle, Radio Pyongyang fascinates like the lobby of a topdrawer Vegas hotel. Styles are all over the map, with frequent operatic touches, a heavy Eastern European influence courtesy of the political leadership's obsession with Stalin, syrupy enrichments of folk melodies, bizarre show tunes, and homegrown responses to Western pop. Virtant's quickcut editing on the \"Megamix\" gives the music the flavor of a progpop suite, with military bands banging into sweet female vocalists cheerily singing along to a polka beat. And then six minutes in a frighteningly sanguine chorus is interrupted by a staticridden blast from one of North Korea's numbers stations, a grim reminder at the diseased and dark heart beating at the core it all. It's pure kitsch, obviously a peculiar mix of crude militarist bullying and Lawrence Welk without budget constraints but Virant's brilliant editing keeps an ominous thread running throughout. It's a disorienting ride; unlike other Sublime Frequencies releases, which come to celebrate the sometimes accidental genius inherent in every country's throwaway pop culture, Radio Pyongyang seems like a running critique of itself, sheepishly letting the guilty pleasures of runaway nationalistic fervor bubble up even as it reminds us how frightening the whole enterprise is. On the one hand it's music made down the barrel of a gun, but on the other, you imagine the individual people making it, who probably wound up in these jobs because they love to sing or play. Every contradiction imaginable is happening at once throughout Radio Pyongyang and there is layer upon layer to unpeel. I don't know where the music comes from or what the songs mean, and certainly some of this stuff is laughable, but in spite of it all this CD is a weirdly fascinating work of art. "}