{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2033/homepage_large.304855c5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Thank You","text":" The gap between, say, Puddle of Mudd and the postrock/electronic underground is hilariously huge. As backwardsballcap macrorock lathers more gesso onto radio, pointyheads like Four Tet's Kieran Hebden and Kammerflimmer Kollektief's Thomas Weber having been discovering zany new colors to paint with. The BrooklynbywayofPortland label Temporary Residence has spent eight years ignoring the grunge fallout while going to the mat for these kinds of experimenters. In a span of time that's seen thousands of manufactured jeanshorts purchased by those who like the way Wes Scantlin slaps their ass, Temporary Residence has faithfully brought the bliss and sticky sustenance. Now, for its 50th release, the label is celebrating those moments of its life with some exclusive and intuitive content from its raft of creative pals. This is stuff that takes its time getting to that land without borders, where fortresses of turbulence rise in EKG spike valleys. Alongside his bandmates in Fridge, Hebden spends nearly 10 minutes doting over \"Five Combs\"' sprightly little fournote figure; snatches of a broadcast become an alternating rhythm to the normal tickle of glitchy pushbutton percussion; and music boxes harmonize with descending pianos. For Weber's incredible Kammerflimmer Kollektief (hooray for consonants!), hiss is the weapon. What sounds like the chatter of a thousand GoBot grasshoppers connects \"Eiderdaunen [Version]\"'s subtle snare brushes to damaged jazz soloing and an excerpt from some abandoned love theme. These tracks find the organic intangible in their assemblages of mouse clicks and effects units. But their electronic signatures also heighten the effect of Howard Hello's \"The One\", whose gentle acoustic guitar and vintage keyboard buzz sound nearly exotic. This is what's so rewarding about the nebulous scene Temporary Residence documents: It can be both electronic and organic, wooden and plastic. Tube amps sit in practice rooms next to notebook computers; the warm yellow glow of a Guild Acoustics body reflects an LCD screen's chilly blue wallpaper. While pretty sedate throughout, Thank You does offer some roar with \"I Can't See Anything When I Close My Eyes\", a nervy live number from San Francisco's Rumah Sakit. There's also an extended bout of nearfeedback soloing jammed into the center of Kilowatthours and JDV's otherwise tranquil (and awesomely named) \"Jignauseum\". Then, Parlour conjure the thick groove of 5ive Style with \"Landlaked\", before Explosions in the Sky return to Thank You's more formless and peaceful side for \"The Long Spring\". Sybarite follow suit, blurring the line between warm blood and circuitry perfectly, and turning their \"Killing the Moonshine\" into a snaky meander of melody and mainframe. Just now, while you weren't looking, another bar band covered Puddle of Mudd. And, depending on how many inflatable promotional items were in the room, the crowd probably loved it. But at the same time in another room, a tangle of wires just emitted a wavering tone, and three or four dudes riffed on it with jumbles of axes and software. Some people find home in chunkheaded modern rock generica, and that's fine. But for those with the time to explore, there's a Temporary Residence waiting in the goofy cosmos. "}