{"label":" Room40","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2034/homepage_large.e0ef2933.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Melatonin: Meditations on Sound in Sleep","text":" It's 3am on a Sunday. My world is quiet, my room is dark and I am dreaming. There's a parade of old acquaintances and vaguely familiar places proceeding through my head, but it's a jumbled parade, a plotless, random idea stew. Most of my dreams are like this. I'm standing on a sandbar in Tampa with an inflatable raft under my arm one moment and when I turn around I'm looking at the linoleum floor in my parents' kitchen. Old friends show up in incongruous dress or strange places, and I intuitively know what they're saying, even though I can't hear a thing. Since high school, music has been a huge part of my life, creatively as well as from a listener's standpoint, and the possibilities of sound fascinate me to no end. But in my mind's most purely creative state dreaming there is no sound, and never has been. This has always puzzled me. Why would I be missing such a big part of myself in my dreams?* * * It's now 12:23pm, later that same Sunday. I'm making my way through the two imposing discs of Room40's Melatonin compilation, which bills itself as a collection of \"meditations on sound in sleep.\" Coincidentally, my cats are sacked on their pillows, and I'm not holding up so well myself. I've been tired a lot lately, and for about 20 minutes, I experience this music through that halfwakeful haze that inevitably accompanies a dozing session. Seems appropriate. I should hasten to point out that I'm not falling asleep out of boredom. Melatonin is a beautifully realized concept, and the sequencing is near flawless, allowing disparate pieces of music to sit naturally beside each other, the brieftononexistent silences between tracks contributing greatly to the flow. Aside from the general theme of the compilation, the artists involved were given a great deal of freedom to interpret their mandate as they saw fit, and their pieces head in several different directions. Chris Watson, Stephen Vitiello and Philip Samartzis all work with field recordings, though each takes a different approach. Samartzis doesn't embellish his sliceoflife recordings with a lot of chopping or looping, instead letting them speak for themselves as he edits tape of what sounds like a street market opening in the morning, a rowboat ride and church bells in a random, dreamlike and pointedly nonnarrative sequence. Watson, whose contribution opens the first disc, molds his insect masses and birds into neon choirs, while Vitiello follows with a piece that weaves its found sound through with mild drones that morph into nearmelodies as they become more active. As one might expect, several artists go the purely ambient route, crafting enveloping soundscapes, often with timbres that are hard to source. Ai Yamamoto's \"Dreaming of Swimming in Emerald Green Water\" is quite beautiful, surrounding a harmonium drone with crystalline intonations that together form a belllike texture. Oren Ambarchi's minimal guitar piece \"Stormy Weather Part II\" is a picture of restraint, while Pimmon's drones billow like an approaching cloudbank. The deep, dark tones of DJ Olive's \"Yard Swing Sunrise\" sound like the surface of water looks, while Frost's \"Svartifoss\" might be a direct transcription of Jimi Hendrix, as heard through three feet of solid ice. Several artists take a much more active approach to their songs, with David Toop and Scanner providing the two nightmare tracks. The voices that rip through Toop's \"Hypnogogmatist\" sound as though they are literally tearing the fabric of sleep, particularly the one that opines, \"At night this theory made sense to me, but now I can't understand it.\" Scanner's piece is inhabited by disembodied voices as well, but his foundation of shivering piano is by far the most profoundly creepy thing on the entire set. Meanwhile, Janek Schaefer's closing piece, \"Love Song\", layers voices singing the word \"love,\" the natural waver of the participants' held notes and the random nature of their combinations and recombinations swaying the piece back and forth between unnerving dissonance and comforting harmony. Steve Reich would be proud. On the more rhythmic end of things, John Chantler turns in a tight slab of foundsound jazz, his plinks and pings congealing into a fitful beat as electric piano chords hum softly in the background, as though oblivious to the beat but nonetheless in time with it. The only other thing that approaches the rhythmic drive of Chantler's contribution is DJ/Rupture's \"Heart Murmur\", gathering various scrapings on bowed instruments together over a percussive swoosh that approximates a beat as a panicked man yells, \"Are we shooting people?\" The sprawl of these two discs almost offers too much to really cover effectively in a review, but it bears mentioning that along with all of the standout tracks, there are a few clunkers thrown in. Some, like Timeblind's \"Lust\" (it got more interesting when a prop plane flew over head, mixing with the texture) and Steinbruchel's \"Feder\" are simply too static, while others, like Martin NG & Tetuzi Akiyama's \"SilverBrown\" are strikingly unpleasant. \"SilverBrown\" has some interesting minimal guitar passages, but the sine waves that layer on top are just rude, like imposed tinnitus. On balance, though, a grand total of about five dissatisfying tracks on such a large set is hardly a death knell, and Melatonin is mostly a resounding success. As an added bonus, it also offers a fantastic microcosm of most of the trends in 21st Century ambient music in its running order, offering many distinct takes on the genre, with a few wellplaced detours breaking things up. It hasn't helped me get to the bottom of my silent dreams, but Melatonin still sounds plenty good when I'm awake. "}