{"label":" Irdial","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2035/homepage_large.1b3c4955.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Conet Project","text":" In the world of electronics, radio is an old technology, but it still holds a special allure. Forget the closedcircuits and dishes that only catch electromagnetic rain with proper positioning and decoders; radio is powerful because, with the right kind of tuner, you always can connect with somebody, somewhere. Shortwave radio has an even more remarkable omnipresence. It works by reflecting between the ionosphere and the earth's surface, allowing signals to travel over curved surfaces and bounce from continent to continent, and its band is filled with unfamiliar voices and music from the world over. Shortwave radio hams speak of the unexplained phenomenon of \"numbers stations.\" These mysterious broadcasts contain seemingly random chunks of repeating data usually a lone voice reading a string of numbers or letters, but sometimes it's simply electronic tones or bits of music. It is generally understood (though never formerly acknowledged) that numbers stations are encrypted messages broadcast by various governments for some unknown purpose most likely espionage. They may be instructions to undercover agents in the field (the CIA, MOSSAD, KGB, and so on), and involve commands encoded and decoded according to an understood key.The Conet Project is a collection of numbers stations recordings first issued in the late 90s and now officially back in print. Its blip of mainstream notoriety came when Wilco sampled a track from the set (a woman's voice intoning \"yankee... hotel... foxtrot...\") for the closing moments of \"Poor Places\", providing the title for Wilco's bestknown album. The Conet Project is an unusual collection to say the least. It's extremely long (four discs), expensive, and contains insanely thorough documentation the 70page booklet assumes a working knowledge of cryptography lingo, and explains why shortwave is such a secure and efficient medium for exchange of encrypted information. Of course, something about preserving this stuff on CD seems anachronistic in light of current technology people trade numbers stations recordings by CDR and share them online but if the jury is out on The Conet Project as a commercial product, there is certainly much here to enjoy. First, even when stripped of the important political context, these CDs are interesting on a purely textural level. Anyone inured to the sonic pleasures of imperfect technology will find a lot to love in these extremely low fidelity recordings, which were packed tightly to travel halfway around the world and remain intelligible on the receiving end. Voices sound pinched and claustrophobic forced into the narrow band of the medium, and each sound carries with a layer of distortion. A slight but delicious warble is constantly present, an effect more pronounced when music or electronic tones (great primitive synth sounds abound) take over the voices. And every broadcast is carried along on a thick shag carpet of hum, buzz and crackle. If you enjoy listening to recordings from the first 15 years of the space program those stony allAmerican voices amid all that static, each transmission punctuated with the electronic beep then The Conet Project has obvious appeal. And then there are the voices. Steve Reich is inspired by the musicality of human speech (\"Come Out\", \"It's Gonna Rain\", \"Different Trains\"), and The Conet Project provides a lot of raw material. There are dozens of them here, in as many tongues as you can imagine, working through sequences of numbers and letters with heavy repetition. Some of the broadcasts are either tape loops or some kind of triggered sample, others seem to be read \"live.\" The cumulative effect is hypnotic. Once you've absorbed the sound and let the imagined content of these broadcasts sink in, The Conet Project moves from interesting to fascinating. Remember why these broadcasts allegedly exist: to instruct people to do harm. Even if espionage is in service of an ultimate good, the details of the enterprise involve deception, betrayal, and occasionally, violence. Knowing that these unnervingly dispassionate voices, reading endless streams of random numbers aloud, carry within them \"plain text\" messages about assassination, terrorism you name it is creepy, voyeuristic and exhilarating. It's an unblinking call for conspiracy, the paranoia of the Cold War boiled down to its essence. This is the station tuned in by Bobby Fisher's silver fillings when he's having one of his \"bad days,\" and that's what the boys from Wilco heard. That voice in \"Poor Places\" is the black box inside the crashing plane, holding the clues to why things went so desperately wrong. "}