{"label":" Trax","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2038/homepage_large.db42696e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Trax Records: 20th Anniversary Collection","text":" Bare bones, rootless, and raw, early house was a slatewiping sound. It allowed a group of mostly black and gay Chicagoans who grew up in the home of the Disco Demolition Night to both construct a unique, singular canvas and paint on that blank cloth a sensual and often sexual portrait of the struggle to assert and celebrate their uniqueness and individuality. That sense of community was found at a trio of influential clubs Frankie Knuckles' Warehouse and Power Plant, and Ron Hardy's Music Box. Knuckles and Hardy ruled over Chicago's early 1980s clubland environment, filling the postdisco dancefloor void with a mix of European synthpop, Philly Soul, funk, and Italian disco, often splicing and extending sequences, mixing live with a reeltoreel, and experimenting with rhythm tracks. Their devotees were so enthralled that, like the fabled reactions to The Sex Pistols' early UK performances, they maxed out their credit cards on musical equipment and led a DIY revolution. In the hands of these admitted amateurs, the typical laws of musicmaking and song structure weren't applicable. Instead, they fumbled about and created an alien sound; a few years later misusing the TB303 drum machine some of these same artists created the theneyebulging but nowfamiliar squelches and burps that characterize acid house. Just as New Yorkers had abused the turntable and transformed the breakbeat into a musical science, these enthusiastic and mostly untrained kids smashed the rulebook and democratized the musicmaking process. When most of these new creations were finally put on vinyl, they were usually released on Trax Records, an infamous label typically known almost as much for its cornercutting as its groundshifting output. Thankfully, that's being redressed with the revitalization of the label and the release of a series of compilations celebrating its role in the radical alteration of dance music. The best of these releases (which also includes Acid Classics and Queer Trax) is Trax Records: 20th Anniversary Edition, a threedisc collection of the label's best 1980s work. The first two discs are a pair of continuous mixes by Maurice Joshua and Paul Johnson; the third is a potentially superfluous unmixed collection of 12 of the label's bestloved tracks, each of which is also featured elsewhere in the collection. The discs boast both the minimal, lurching sound of trackoriented house and more soulful, discorooted, gospeltinged, and usually femalevocaled songoriented house, all grounded by the steady fourtothefloor beat that still characterizes the genre today. The first disc hogs most of the big names and anthems (including Adonis' \"No Way Back\", Phuture's \"Acid Tracks\", Master C&J;'s \"Dub Love\", and comixer Maurice's \"This Is Acid\"), while the second unearths some lessknown but equally compelling gems. A uniquely Chicago sound, house was able to become a local sensation it elbowed its way onto nighttime radio playlists, and some singles sold upwards of 10,000 copies in the city alone without the meddling influences of either industry or celebrity culture. As a result, Knuckles' and Hardy's clubs weren't as quickly given over to the cult of exclusivity that had helped expedite the last days of disco a few years earlier. However, almost everything else that disco's detractors disliked about that late70s sound was magnified by house: It's mechanical and sexual, and the early \"jack\" tracks house's version of dancecraze tunes could be seen as utilitarian. Were house lovers confronted with such accusations, they'd likely shrug or smile: Otherworldly sounds that mix the funky hedonism of Prince and the primal mechanics of Giorgio Moroder? Yes, please. The Second City has long celebrated its role in the creation and nurturing of jazz and blues, but until this summer's Frankie Knuckles Day has heretofore neglected to recognize its role in the birth of house music. It's a shame because, in many ways, house is a more purely Chicago sound than any of those others. Even in the days before the current Mayor Daley's beautification initiatives, Chicago's gorgeous skyline dwarfed cracked concrete and cold steel, serving as a reminder that, in the hands of architectural visionaries from Daniel Burnham to Mies van der Rohe, aesthetics and utilitarianism aren't opposing ideas and that elegance needn't be sacrificed to modernity. So just as Detroit Chicago's sister city in the 1980s electronic dance music revolution seemed a natural setting for techno's dystopian nightmares, Europhile escapist fantasies, and almost posthuman (even postapocalyptic) sound, house perfectly captures the beauty and beast qualities of Chicago's urban landscape. It freely embraces both crisp, modern scifi sounds and raw, unchecked sexuality and lurching beats, and, in some ways, is therefore perhaps the exception to the idea that \"dancing about architecture\" is perverse and/or impossible. In one sense, this collection is first and foremost a historical document, the first Traxsanctioned compilation in the label's history. As a document of the development of one the world's bestloved musical genres, it demonstrates that groundbreaking music even when it's fairly minimal, almost basic is not necessarily rudimentary. The more songbased tracks the ones which carry the old remnants of diva disco are perhaps the most surprisingly appealing, especially because I've always preferred the tracky end of house and still do (and prefer it on this collection, too). Yet, as wonderful as the more raw, barebones sonics of tracks such as Mr. Fingers' \"Can You Feel It\" are, the version included here adds deep, rich vocals which turn it into a clarion call for togetherness and unity without spilling into melodramatics or empty bombast. As a result, claims that \"this song is all about life\" and \"I can see all my brothers/ Seated around a table of fellowship\" are wistful and urgent, hopeful but yet mindful of the improbability of the song's prophecy. Similarly, on one of the set's most muscular tracks, Marshall Jefferson's \"Bird in a Gilded Cage\" doesn't soar across an empty blue sky; instead it negotiates ambient jungleandanimal sounds. Jefferson faces reality as he dreams of utopia. On this set, that tension blends into the release of Hercules' \"7 Ways to Jack\", again highlighting that when it comes to race and sexuality, the politics of dancing isn't just a catchy chorus. Racial and sexual dynamics are so linked in some elements of house that \"South Africa/Let My People Go\" and the Princelike incantation, \"She brought me to my knees/ For love/ Made me beg and plead/ For love,\" share space on Knuckles' and Jamie Principle's \"Baby Wants to Ride\". Even the reality of life in Chicago (and New York, Munich, Berlin, Tokyo, Rotterdam, London, etc.) was harsh, a sort of utopia was within reach on the dancefloor, with the uniformity of that familiar 4/4 beat serving as a great leveler and the shared foundation of what became a worldwide community. Above all, then, this is a document of a sonic revolution, one that destroyed the notions of authorship, the empty claims of authenticity, and music crit's nowbizarre preference for linear histories instead of paradigm shifts. More importantly, it unleashed the world of possibility of electronic music onto the dancefloor, demonstrating that machine music isn't merely chinstroking science it's also the bodyshifting humanity. "}