{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2039/homepage_large.802bd46a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Kompilation","text":" Let's face it: Any record label worth its weight in promotional sweatbands can ride the backs of a few talented acts and enjoy a couple years of glory. The real litmus test as recent compilations by such veteran imprints as Merge and Matador have demonstrated is what happens to a label once it begins to undergo significant turnover; how it recovers and redefines itself when its top bands break up, defect to greener pastures, or otherwise descend into inactivity. Does the label shrivel and fade into memory, or does it have the taste, persistence, and clout necessary to reload its roster and maintain its relevance? By this measure, the decadeold Chicagobased Kranky has to be considered a resounding success, as evidenced by this 21track, twodisc sampler. Most of the faces here are relative label newcomers (only three of the 18 acts presented also appeared on Kranky's 1998 Europeonly compilation) but nevertheless this collection amply proves Kranky capable of sustaining its high level of quality while simultaneously performing the rare feat of preserving a coherent and immediately recognizable (if not easily definable) aesthetic. In the latter half of the 90s, Kranky released seminal recordings by the likes of Labradford, Godspeed You Black Emperor!, and Low. Records by artists such as Jessamine and Bowery Electric feel, in retrospect, like transitional works for the label, representative of those zany postrock days when experimentalminded, rockbred performers began segueing into the freer realms of improv, abstract electronica, dub, and minimalism. As Kompilation makes evident, this transition is now complete there's hardly a peep on either of these two discs that bears anything but the most indirect relation to rock. Despite widely divergent instrumentation and methods, all of the artists showcased here share certain genetic traits: an appreciation for empty space, talent for gradually unfurling melodies, and the infinite patience required to stalk transcendence. On disc one Kranky immediately throws down the gauntlet, exhibiting such an imposing mountain of drone that it almost feels as if the listener has been presented with a dare. The set opens with \"Even If You're Never Awake\", a track from Stars of the Lid's forthcoming album, which seems appropriate considering that the duo has always produced what is perhaps the purest distillation of the Kranky sound. Voiceless soundwaves throb and swell glacially over the course of eight minutes, and as always Stars of the Lid marvelously capture the chilly shapeshifting of ice shelves slowly receding beneath the northern lights. Keith Fullerton Whitman keeps the drone flowing with his appropriately named new piece \"Stereo Music for Serge Modulator Synthesizer\" which sounds something like a set of bagpipes decaying in time lapse. Other highlights of the first disc include an exclusive track from the alwayscaptivating Pan American and an alternate mix of \"Campestral\" by electronic microtexturalist Greg Davis. The only significant misstep is Growing's \"Primitive Associations/Great Mass Above\" which skirts dangerously close to New Age territory with its field recordings of chirping birdies. Although all of the artists here are usually best appreciated in albumlength doses, these pieces manage to complement one another unusually well in this more abbreviated context. One of Kranky's biggest recent artistic coups was their recent alliance with Texan psychfolk juggernaut Charalambides. This collection features a pair of entrancing solo works by group members Christina and Tom Carter, and Kompilation's second disc kicks off with the title track from Charalambides' recent masterpiece Joy Shapes. The ecstatic nature of the group's improvisational vocals and guitar may seem out of keeping with some of the fussier, more distanced pieces neighboring them here; but their dazzling, oceanwide sound and heavenward yearning correspond perfectly with Kranky's broader objectives. More dynamic than the first disc (a couple of tracks even feature decadent luxuries such as percussion), the collection's second disc trips down memory lane, exploring Kranky's recent history. Previously released tracks like Jessica Bailiff's \"Swallowed\", Clear Horizon's \"For Days\", or Outhud's \"Dad, There's a Little Thing Called Too Much Information\" obviously aren't particularly new anymore, but still they all sound just dandy lined up so neatly together in a row. At record's end, Kranky thoughtfully drop us back off where we began with Stars of the Lid, going all the way back to 2001's \"Requiem for the Dying Mothers Part 2\" where we find them still placidly rolling the same boulder up the same hill. Featuring nearly 150 minutes of music and carrying a retail price comparable to that of your average EP Kompilation has to qualify as one of 2004's best musical bargains. (In fact, if you want to factor value into the equation, go ahead and mentally bump the above rating up a couple of notches.) If you're an established Kranky hardliner, the new tracks and low cost pretty much make this a mustgrab; and if you've always been intrigued by the label's output but been too shy to introduce yourself, this is as painless an initiation as you could hope for. It sure looks from here like everybody is a winner. "}