{"label":" 679","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2042/homepage_large.c373f718.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Run the Road","text":" When Dizzee Rascal's \"I Luv U\" first leaked to the internet, it was accompanied by the rumor that it was made with an iBook and a cheapie pencil microphone. A ridiculous visual in retrospect iLife in Bow E3! but it's interesting that someone somewhere thought it made more sense to tightfocus on Rascal's tools rather than his environment. His environment, after all, was the real story; first in the parentless, concrete battleground that he narrated to lucid detail on Boy In Da Corner and later, in the incredible roster of talent that turned out to be lurking just off Dizzee's camera all along. Part of the reason Boy In Da Corner sounded so immediate was because you could sense the friction of Dizzee's story rubbing up against the asyetuntold stories of those around him. In his lone voice, he always sounded defensive, like someone who'd broken away from the pack and might have to spend the rest of his life running from it. \"MCs better start chattin' about what's really happening,\" he spat on \"Brand New Day\", \"Because if you ain't chattin' about what's happening, then where you living, what you talking about?\" That was Dizzee's dare to grime: exist. Now, 18 months later there's Kano, Terror Danjah, Goodz, Target, D Double E, Lady Sovereign it's hard to imagine that grime's viability was ever in question. In fact, as a genre, grime has probably never felt as exciting, vibrant, and promising as it does right now. Its surprising malleability has made it possible for producers to splinter off and pursue different strains some adorn their tracks with East Oriental timbres and scales; others go for frosty, brittle sounds; others prefer homemade noises with anxious, scattershot qualities. Sonically, it seems like no idea is too strange right now, just as long as it's fresh. It doesn't hurt that hunger is woven into grime's DNA, either a competitive bloodflow only guarantees movement. And yet, for all of that, I can't say I'm surprised that the only grime to register with the recordbuying mainstream so far has been Rascal's. Yeah, Wiley's record was slepton, but Shystie's was a dog, and the jury's still out on a halfdozen fulllengths yet to come. Grime needs confrontation and a mix of personalities to properly assert itself it lends perfectly to the compilation format. And yet, underground mix tapes excepted, there hasn't been a single decent comp until now. Luckily, Run the Road is so fucking good that none of that really matters. A collection of \"greatest hits,\" some of which are close to a year old, it should rightfully become the de facto entry point for anyone with even a passing interest in this music. Not only does it provide a sweeping survey of the genre's biggest figures, it strikes to the heart of grime's maneuverability by constantly changing gears without ever sounding anything less than massive. It is also full of more wonderful single moments than you would reasonably expect from an ensemble cast. There's a new sound, a new voice, and a new idea at every turn I can't remember the last time a compilation had me this excited for a genre. Hunger is the glue here. Despite the varying production aesthetics and emceeing styles, nearly everything on Run the Road sounds in danger of burning through the speakers. Frantic opener \"Cock Back (v1.2)\" has Terror Danjah, Riko, Bruza, D Double E, and Hyper getting rowdy over plinkplinks and an emptying clip; Roll Deep gushes Oriental synths out its slashedopen stomach on \"Let It Out\"; Kano gets streetwise and skittery on the reptilian \"P's and Q's\"; remixer Terror Danjah turns the \"Cleaning Out My Closet\"soundalike of Shystie's \"One Wish\" into a universeswallowing epic. Imagine a single voice toppling a chorus of screams, and then another voice shouting down that racket, and then another that's the net effect. I have no idea whether this is going to have the impact that it should. It's certainly too \"British\" to slot in with American hiphop, but it was a pipedream to think that this incarnation of grime ever could. The sad truth is that I can easily envision a scenario where this does absolutely nothing, short of maybe sneaking into a few record stores through the back door. If that's the way things play out, fine, whatever, I give up. At least it'll be the most incredible failure I've ever heard.  "}