{"label":" Motown / Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2048/homepage_large.00202bc8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 1: 59-61","text":" The building at 2648 West Grand Boulevard was like any other Detroit bungalow when Berry Gordy, backed by an $800 loan from his family, bought it and turned it into the offices for Tamla, his first record label. One can only speculate what the neighbors thought when he put up the sign that said \"Hitsville, USA\", but Gordy's optimism was backed by a strong business sense and proved to be wellfounded: the Tamla name never became a household word, but his second label Motown did, and the rest is history. Motown grew quickly into a Motor City assembly line for hit songs, the label that put black music into white living rooms, and an institution that's taken for granted today as a part of the American cultural landscape. Gordy wasn't exactly new to the music industry when he opened up shop; he had dabbled in management, owned a failed record store, and cowritten several hits in the mid50s for soul innovators Jackie Wilson and Etta James. It was an admittedly spotty record, but one that earned him respect amongst local musicians and performers. So Hitsville became a hangout for young musicians hoping to make it big, and the cast of characters that turned up in the label's first three years the period covered on HipO Select's new sixdisc box The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 1: 195961 is incredible: Smokey Robinson, Brian and Eddie Holland (two thirds of Holland/Dozier/Holland), James Jamerson, Benny Benjamin, the Temptations, the Supremes (née the Primes, or Primettes), Norman Whitfield, Barrett Strong, Marvin Gaye. These are names writ large across even a cursory knowledge of r&b; and classic pop, and all of them helped build the label into a legend. As this set reveals, though, there were plenty of secondary players, oneoffs, novelties, experiments, and trendhopping tangents (not to mention a ton of gospel, Gordy shrewdly realizing that the audience for it was very stable) that helped shape the label as well and that's part of the reason these discs are so fascinating. Of course, you know the Miracles' \"Shop Around\" (just Motown's 20th single, but its first millionseller) and the Marvelettes' \"Please Mr. Postman\" (Motown's first #1 hit), but most of what's compiled here has been otherwise lost to history, leaving whole chapters out of one of popular music's most important stories. The Swinging Tigers, Eugene Remus, Gino Parks, the Equadors, the Valadiers, and Herman Griffin are anything but wellknown, some having released just a one 45, but you can hear the Motown sound developing on their singles several of which are real gems. Every ASide, BSide, and replacement side from every single released on Gordy's Tamla, Motown, and Miracle labels from 195961 amounts to more than 150 tracks and almost seven hours of music, and to explore it both as it's presented here, in strict chronological order, and to jump around comparing, say \"Shop Around\" with Debbie Dean's answer song \"Don't Let Him Shop Around\", is supremely rewarding. Marv Johnson's \"Come to Me\", originally released on Tamla, opens things triumphantly not only is it a fantastic song, it was also a hit, albeit only after Gordy licensed it to United Artists, who were far better equipped to promote it nationally than he was. Barrett Strong's \"Money (That's What I Want)\" gave the label a national hit on just the eighth try, and it's typical of the impromptu genius of Motown's early years; the song was written by Gordy and Hitsville receptionist Janie Bradford off the cuff and recorded on the spot as two local white high schoolers stopped in on their way past Hitsville to sit in on bass and guitar. To this day, no one can even speculate as to who those two kids were, and who knows if they have any clue what they contributed to? Novelties abound on this set as well, including a halfdozen attempts to jump on the twist bandwagon that swept the nation on 1961. Of these, the most notable are \"IchIBon #1\", a surprisingly sharp surf instrumental by a band called Nick & the Jaguars, and the odd minorkey storysong of \"Small Sad Sam\" by Bob Kayli, actually Gordy's brother Robert performing under a pseudonym. The most mystifying of all the novelties, though, is Popcorn and the Mohawks' \"Custer's Last Man\" (incredibly, it's not even the only song about General Custer present here). \"Last Man\" is a totally bizarre, even mildly offensive radio play that stretches out to a ridiculous 4\\xBD, and the single most glaring example of the fact that Motown hadn't yet established its famed Quality Control department. Other oddities are more successful, like Ron and Bill's \"It\", an attempt to create another \"Purple People Eater\" while that song was still hot, and Gino Parks' hilarious \"Blibberin' Blabbin' Blues\", an obvious attempt to beat the Coasters at their own \"Yakety Yak\" game. Parks actually proves on his second release, \"Same Thing\" b/w \"That's No Lie\", that he deserved far more than a novelty hit; the ASide drips with soul, while the flip is like Sam Cooke and James Brown rolled into one gravelly, soulful crooning punctuated by startling, earpiercing yelps of joy. No obscure act from the early days of Motown deserved fame more than the Satintones, though. A brilliant doowop act, they recorded five singles for the label and none took off, though all were great. Their aching, gorgeous \"Angel\" is one of the best songs here, and its Bside, \"My Kind of Love\", features beautiful harmonies and a crazy, very unusual string arrangement. String arrangements are something of a running theme throughout these six discs. Gordy became convinced early on that they were a signifier of class and a key to crossover success, hence several songs appear in two versions one with strings, and one without. Gordy would pull the original single and then reissue it with the same catalog number and the new arrangement, a tactic that did manage to produce some sales, but one that also understandably drives collectors nuts. Yet hearing alternate versions gathered in one place is fascinating. Other doovers include the slower, inferior regional version of \"Shop Around\", a take on the song in which the Miracles sound almost tentative. Gordy apparently sensed that, and gathered the house band an early incarnation of the legendary Funk Brothers and the Miracles in the middle of the night to recut the song for the reissue, which of course would go platinum. As a musical journey, this set is nothing short of amazing, despite a handful of mediocre cuts and a few downright awful ones. By disc six, Motown is a welloiled hit machine, and even a few of the twist knockoffs are pretty entertaining. It's huge fun to hear Marvin Gaye trying to position himself as a sensitive interpreter of showtunes (thank God that didn't last) or to check out the truly amazing house band has their ever been a pop bass/drums combo as outstanding as James Jamerson and Benny Benjamin? cutting loose on \"Snake Walk\" under the name Swinging Tigers. Ultimately, the failures are as much a part of the early Motown story as the successes, and HipO has done about as good a job as humanly possible chronicling it, making this the kind of package you want to wash your hands before touching. Motown went on to much bigger things and had better years, to be detailed on future sets in this series, but there's no experience like hearing the label get on its feet and find itself; for that, this is truly essential. "}