{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2049/homepage_large.18ad2f70.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 2: 1962","text":" The performers couldn't enter through the front door at most venues when the first Motown revue swung through the Deep South on tour. It was 1962, and busloads of Freedom Riders were still fresh in the minds of conservative white southerners, a fact that made the trip harrowing for the Hitsville recording artists whom label founder Berry Gordy had packaged together for the revue. Gordy's intent was to build the brand of Motown, get the word into people's heads, get them thinking not just about the next Miracles or Marvelettes single, but about the next single coming out on Motown, no matter what it was. But his timing in that summer brought an inadvertent association with the Civil Rights movement to the label. Here was a blackowned record label with a mostly black roster of artists exhibiting its wares in the heart of a region that was trying its hardest to send these very people to the margins of society and keep them there it was inspiring to many, even if Gordy's only real intent was to sell more records and score some hits on the pop chart. Of course he succeeded in that, and Motown today is a word people use like Kleenex or Xerox, a brand name so iconic that it came to define an entire aesthetic sensibility and style of songwriting. No one talks about the Vee Jay Records sound the same way no one asks you to hand them a Puffs before sneezing Motown simply towered over all of its independent brethren for about two decades, and the Hitsville song factory set the gold standard for 60s r&b.; By 1962, Motown's fourth year of operation, the hits were a regular occurrence and Gordy had established an artist development department to coach his growing stable of performers, most of whom were barely in their early 20s at that point, if they were even that old. It would be a few years until the label itself was firmly ensconced in the collective American consciousness, but as the second volume in HipO Select's Complete Motown Singles series proves, the label already had a signature sound and an almost universally high quality level on its releases. Pleasures abound on the four discs of singles and Bsides compiled here, including numerous smashes you can still hear on the radio on any given day. Marvin Gaye progresses from a genuinely bizarre version of \"Mr. Sandman\", full of spooky vibes and queasy backing vocals, to his first taste of success with \"Stubborn Kind of Fellow\", whose opening chorus of \"Say yeah, yeah, yeah\" is one of the easiest instructions to follow in recorded song. By the end of the set, Marvin's on to \"Hitch Hike\" and stardom, which is the kind of thing that makes it easy to forget that these discs only cover a single year of the label's output. Gaye's nascent stardom was nothing at that point relative to that of the Marvelettes, the Miracles, and Mary Wells, all of whom have their moments here. It's almost impossible to believe that Smokey Robinson's perfect \"You've Really Got a Hold on Me\" a song that's since become one of the true standards of the rock 'n' roll era was originally a Bside, but that's how spoiled the label was for quality material by then. Robinson also wrote Mary Wells' \"Two Lovers\", which mixes sly humor perfectly with a nuanced vocal and that airy production style that today can only be called the Motown sound. New arrivals at the label that year included two who would soon be among Motown's biggest stars: Martha Reeves (with the Vandellas) and Little Stevie Wonder, at the time only 12 years old. Even then, Wonder was an outstanding harmonica player and a strong singer who sounds significantly beyond his years on \"I Call It Pretty Music but the Old People Call It the Blues\". Both the Supremes and the Temptations had a prolific year in the studio, but both were still searching for a breakout hit. The Supremes' \"Your Heart Belongs to Me\", a beguiling letter to a soldier from the girl he left back home, probably should have been huge, but only managed to scrape the bottom of the chart despite the wide reach of its subject matter in an era of massive military buildup and increasing entanglement in Southeast Asia. Just as with the first volume of the series, there are dozens of tracks with no other logical home that nonetheless deserve a listen. The Temptations' \"Isn't She Pretty\" is a crazy doowop song with Eddie Kendricks flying around in Frankie Valli territory with bass Melvin Franklin trucks away down at the bottom. The eccentric Gino Parks gets in a hypercharged, shouting performance on \"Fire\", backed by the full force of the Hitsville house band horn section, while Mike & the Modifiers' sole single, \"I Found Myself a Brand New Baby\", is an ultracatchy bit of blueeyed soul that excellent liners correctly peg as a premonition of the British Invasion. And it goes on from there. The Contours rock hard on \"Do You Love Me?,\" Eddie Holland turns in a handful of great vocal performances that make you wonder why his career as a singer never took off the way his career as a writer did, and you even get a bit of Griegreferencing jazz on the Earl Washington AllStars' \"Opus No. 3\". And that's the real brilliance of this series laying out the Motown singles discography in its entirety, warts and all, gives you a picture of an era you could never piece together just by listening to the hits. Even in its early stages, Motown was a force to reckon with, and on this set you can hear the language changing, expanding just enough to include the word Motown and all of its associations. "}