{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2050/homepage_large.de3a5123.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 3: 1963","text":" It's 9:05 on a Friday morning sometime in 1963, and Berry Gordy locks the door. The Hitsville, USA product evaluation committee is in session, and if you've shown up late, tough luck. Wait until next Friday. During the meeting, Motown employees from both the creative and business sides frankly evaluate everything demoed during the week and either approve it for release or send it back. Motown in 1963 was firing on all cylinders the business ran smoothly and the music was hot. By the end of the year, Gordy's operation sent 10 songs into the pop top ten and had laid the groundwork for 1964, the year the Motor City went supernova. 1963 was the year of Martin Luther King's \"I Have a Dream\" speech (released on a Motown LP), and the Great March on Washington in August brought the Civil Rights movement to one of its greatest crescendos. The year also saw the graduation of James Meredith, the first black man to attend the University of Mississippi, the horrific bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama, and the assassination of John F. Kennedy, all against the backdrop of escalation in Vietnam. Despite the chaotic environment, the music on the third volume of HipO Select's ongoing Complete Motown Singles collection is absurdly consistent. Hitsville's A & B sides from that year fill five CDs, and judging from the whole, most of those Friday morning meetings must have been full of good cheer. Among the year's great milestones was the formation of the mighty writing/production team of Holland/Dozier/Holland, whose guidance resulted in the development of that signature Motown stomp that would reap such great creative (and financial) rewards. In fact, over the course of this set, you can hear the percussive accents slowly moving from just the second and fourth beats to all four beats. While Eddie Holland remained a mystifyingly slepton performer in his own right (check the amazing Northern Soul classic \"Leaving Here\"), his real legacy lay in his collaborations with Lamont Dozier and brother Brian and one listen to Martha & the Vandellas' massive smash \"Heat Wave\" shoves their collective genius straight up your face. Yet, it was on an earlier Vandellas track, \"Come and Get These Memories\", that the trio truly established their widescreen vision, transforming a clever postbreakup lyric into an exhilarating wall of sound. Also coming up in 1963 was \"Little\" Stevie Wonder, who became the first Motown artist to simultaneously top the album and single charts and this at the age of 12. Ever conscious of how his output was performing in the marketplace, Gordy took note that several radio DJs across the country had latched on to the Bside of Wonder's \"Fingertips\" single, a live recording that actually featured a prominent mistake. When that recording was made, Wonder had yet to have a hit, but he performed with a manic energy befitting his age, and after extending a monster take on \"Fingertips\" at a Motown revue, he snuck back on stage for an encore, much to the crowd's delight. The next band was setting up, and bassist Joe Swift can clearly be heard shouting \"What key?\" Sensing that audiences were latching on to the spontaneity, Gordy astutely reissued the recording with the sides reversed and Swift's panicked query mixed as high as he could get it. It landed foursquare atop the chart, dragging the accompanying album right along with it. The \"Fingertips\" scenario is emblematic of how efficient Motown had become at managing distribution and taking advantage of regional success. What still wasn't paying off, though, were the label's offshoots: Gordy believed diversification was a good way of hedging financial bets, and as on this series' previous two volumes, a few headscratching experiments rear up. His love of jazz stretched back more than a decade he even had a failed record shop devoted to it so his establishment of the Workshop Jazz imprint makes a certain amount of artistic sense. The label only functioned during 1963, serving largely as an outlet for assorted Funk Brothers to stretch out, but the music was probably too conservative to leave much of a mark on a jazz world already split wide open by Sketches of Spain and Free Jazz. Gordy's Divinity imprint also kept an iron in the gospel fire, though as his operation began colonizing the pop charts, the small niche market wouldn't have a place at Hitsville for long. And then there's the handful of strange, oldtimey country releases from the Melody label. A few of them are actually pretty good, but where they fit in the overall Motown story is anyone's guess. Not that any of these excursions held Gordy back: By the end of the year, he'd purchased several houses in his neighborhood and a downtown ballroom, creating a genuine Hitsville within Detroit. The label arranged international distribution via EMI, and sure enough, the Beatles' early LPs contained Motown covers. Other pieces were moving into place, too. Artist development and quality control were firmly established, the Four Tops had been signed, Holland/Dozier/Holland landed the Supremes in the top 40 with the brilliant \"When the Lovelight Starts Shining Through His Eyes\", Earl Van Dyke took the helm of the Funk Brothers and made them even tighter, and the Temptations still toiling in obscurity added David Ruffin, completing what would become their classic lineup. By this point, Gordy had stepped back from the creative process to take a more administrative and directive role, but he returned to songwriting in late November to write \"May What He Lived for Live\", a heartfelt tribute to the fallen president he had so loyally supported. Sung with operatic fervor by Liz Lands, it's a stirring if atypical homage. One gets the sense that the end of 1963 was a somber time for Berry Gordy, but 1964 held unimaginable things in store. "}