{"label":" Magic Marker","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2051/homepage_large.e857cc76.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"A House Full of Friends","text":" Magic Marker is a U.S. label specializing in divisive collegiate indie pop. After all, in postemo America, it takes a certain sort of music geek to get into the ironyfree cuddlecore of, say, the Softies, whose live \"It's Love\" caps this twodisc set. Let's face it, though: Either you're with the Lucksmiths, or you're with the terrorists. That aesthetic in mind, A House Full of Friends compiles the highlights of 34 house parties you probably didn't attend unless you were living in Portland, Ore., between 1997 and 2004. The story goes: Faced with dwindling allages options and a prohibitively costly bar scene, Magic Marker cofounders Mark Rothkopf and Curt Kentner invited their favorite bands to play in their home. Those bands, in turn, lend their recordings to this retrospective of twee times at 4306 SE 34th Ave.A House Full of Friends is best received as an introduction to recent indie pop from the Pacific Northwest and beyond. The Shins, the compilation's biggest name, are represented here with a slinky, worthwhile cover of T. Rex's \"Baby Boomerang\" from last year's Fighting in a Sack EP, while the Lucksmiths turn in a characteristically chipper tune about a drowning relationship, the previously unreleased \"Once Again\". The Decemberists' stillvivid Victorian vision on 2003's \"The Chimbley Sweep\" may be familiar to most listeners, but Ashley Park's pleasantly Band on the Runtinged \"Chelsea Beautiful\" probably isn't. Magic Marker's own Dear Nora, All Girl Summer Fun Band, Lunchbox, and Tullycraft also make strong appearances, but labelmates the Owls, whose \"Air\" should have been among last year's mostblogged mp3s, are regrettably absent. And tucked away as the second disc's penultimate song, the Salteens offer a brassy pop nugget, \"Time You Have Been Wasting\". The rest of the tracks are the stuff of a Twee.net listserv wish list: famousifyou'veheardof'em bands like Aislers Set, #Poundsign#, Dressy Bessy, and Mates of State. The collection isn't without its clunkers, such Andrew Kaffer's glitchy title track. Still, indie pop fans will find the disc's lesserknown discoveries deserving of their time, and the accompanying 24page photo booklet almost succeeds in making me wish I lived in a town where it rains all the time. All told, a very, very fine house. "}