{"label":" ZTT","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2052/homepage_large.714b7216.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Produced By Trevor Horn","text":" In the early 1980s, British producer Trevor Horn built a sound thundering drums, zinging samples, Valkryie orchestral fanfares that married orchestral disco, prog ambition, hiphop crunch, and soundtrack pomp with a knowing wink. But, losing both his key collaborators and the wink as his career progressed, all that was left was the bombast Celine Dion with a Fairlight sampler. This occasionally maddening twodisc bestof is perhaps closer to the nut of his output than a perfectly curated selection would be. Unfortunately, it's not always more listenable for telling the truth. If Horn's main legacy had been as a member of the Buggles, he'd be a footnote to the history of MTV. Instead, he hooked up with an ailing pair of schlockmeisters calling themselves Dollar, then a scrappy postpunk soul band called ABC, and promptly became the biggest producer in Britain. He climaxed middecade by cocreating the world's first apocalyptic queer boy band in Frankie Goes To Hollywood and helping to pants the industry in Art of Noise. Perhaps reeling from the backlash these projects engendered in the buying public, he finished out the decade with a succession of slick MOR. He was last seen smuggling T.a.t.u. into the west (yay) and producing Belle & Sebastian (eh). The first disc of Produced is the longer and spottier of the two. \"Video Killed the Radio Star\" and Frankie's \"Relax\" are part of the shared cultural hertiage of anyone born between 19681980. ABC's \"Poison Arrow\" is stopstart dynamics on a Wagnerian scale Bond composer John Barry meets disco pioneer Georgio Moroder. His work with male glamazon Sealhenry Samuel was his last stab at anything like \"relevance,\" and \"Crazy\" remains a fine higloss distillation of Soul II Soul's mixture of eerie and euphoric. But Simple Minds and Spandau Ballet are bad bands in a way that no amount of historical revisionism is going to tame, and LeeAnn Rimes' \"Can't Fight The Moonlight\" is no sane person's idea of a comeback. Neither is T.a.t.u.'s \"All the Things She Said\", though it does at least tip its hat to the homohysteria of FGTH. The second disc makes a pretty good case for Horn as, warts and all, the best producer of the 80s. (Marley Marl may trump him. Prince is Prince.) Horn's lostweekend as a member of Yes (as bizarreyetright as Pharrell joining Pearl Jam) produced one undeniable classic in \"Owner of a Lonely Heart\". The Art of Noise's \"Beat Box\" predicts the boombap of late80s rap, looping a chestthumping drum break from those Yes sessions and rendering everything else (orchestral blare, pixilated samples) as stabs. It marked probably the last time a group of aging white Britons would score a U.S. hiphop hit. Frankie's \"Two Tribes\" stages nuclear annihilation as camp dancefloor pantomime, mutually assured destruction as the ultimate illicit orgasm. AON's \"Moments in Love\" lampoons new age loveliness even as it trumps it, its softfocus synths and flushed inhalations the ultimate yuppie makeout music that transcends itself. Malcom McLaren's sly, spry cutandscratch \"Buffalo Gals\" turned the Sex Pistol's slimeball into the most unexpected rap star ever (except maybe Mel Brooks). ABC's \"The Look of Love\" was modern classicism at its most overwrought (live strings and horns, booming tympani, Martin Fry's strained vocal) and their \"All of My Heart\" may be the most beautiful thing Horn (and the band) ever made. (I still can't figure out what's making those starchild/space whale gurgles on the outro.) There has been much debate as to how much Horn contributed to his various projects. (After the band's falling out, The Art of Noise's J.J. Jeczalik calculated Horn's involvement at slightly less than 2%.) Judging by his later, less radical (both sonically and conceptually) work, Horn was a gifted but often uninspired studio boffin when the catalytic agent of people like AON/Frankie cocreator Paul Morley, ABC's Martin Fry, and McLaren was out of the picture. But no matter what his actual involvement (and personally I'd put it at a lot higher than 2%), Horn was the glue. The music endures, 20 years later, even if Produced By Trevor Horn isn't always its best showcase. If you don't already own the original records, all can be found cheap and all (especially ABC's Lexicon of Love) are essential documents of their era. "}