{"label":" Bassbin","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2057/homepage_large.da8863d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various","title":"Rare Grooves","text":" It's difficult not to get a tad defensive re: the now universally derided drum'n'bass, especially since you and your Aunt Jammy have reserved rooms at the Tivoli Home For Aging RaggaJunglists. (Better renew my JAPM membership card.) Admittedly, 75% of modern d'n'b is pretty much shit: syncopated gabba that you'd have a hard time holding me to my sneaking affection for under oath. But drumfunk, choppage, edits whatever you want to call it is about a bazillion times more interesting than the great minimal techno swindle. (No matter what that sniffly grouch Michael Mayer might say.) And if people who were trading Elephant 6 singles at the turn of the millennium are now listening to six minutes of swishswishswish with the occasional acid noise, then surely there is room in their hearts for six minutes of a Shivaarmed Art Blakey going nuts on DMT. The Emerald Isle's Bassbin label has made a crusade out of reviving the spirit of Blue Note (the club where the early Metalheadz sessions took place, not the jazz imprint). The godfather of the scene is the mighty Paradox, who looks like a tiny lawnmower got taken to his hair. Dev is one of the few old skool junglists check 1991's still preposterous \"Mixrace Outta Hand\" to rail against the scene's entropic drift towards midrange distortion. (The drums and the bass were lost in a poker game to UK garage but were later found behind a council estate after being stripped for parts by grimey gremlins.) Here, on \"Bongolia\", he goes in hard on the \"Apache\" break, throwing some pounding Dillinjastyle subs underneath to sate the raving massive. Bassbin's beats aren't as choppy as market leader Inperspective's or as twistedly twosteppy as Offshore's. Instead, their raison d'etre is in their name: This is soundsystem music for boomin' in ya jeep. Skitty's \"Sweet Vibrations\" rides the titular punchy bassline to nowhere in particular. Equinox finds the 9,000th variation on the \"Amen\"anddub combo on \"Don't Want to Hurt You\". Usually d&b; tracks with \"soulful\" vocalists are deadly (Robert Owens, so much to answer for), but Robert Manos keeps it restrained against Seba and Lenk's swimming lowend and gorgeous synths on \"Everyman for Himself.\" Burial tune of the comp is Calibre's \"Can't Stop This Fire\", which with bouncy drums and a jolly vocal hook is not a million miles from the mainstream scene. It's a reminder that, once upon a time, rolling d&b; was dance music, tugging at your hips, vibrating up your spine, making you feel warm and enveloped rather than just an excuse for veiny teenagers in puffy vests to take a lot of speed. (My only real request is to slow it down to a more reasonable 160bpm. Too much softcore d&b; still sounds like hummingbirds playing soul jazz.) Still, I am about as happy as could be expected with the health of underground d'n'b in 2005. Fuck microhouse, you can have it back. I'm home again. "}