{"label":" Light in the Attic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2058/homepage_large.5c2b08dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Wheedle's Groove: Seattle's Finest Soul & Funk 1965-1975","text":" I could live 10 lives and still not hear half of the worthwhile music that's out there. It's a wonderful yet frustrating feeling. Looking at the rows of funk compilations at Chicago's Dusty Groove Records is enough to give me that giddy/sad feeling that there's so much out there to explore and not enough time or money/bandwidth to hear all of it. This compilation is in those rows now, a competitor amongst hundreds for your affection, but it's definitely worth leaning toward when your geek id pokes you in the pocket looking for something vintage, unique, and mostly cohesive. If you're wondering what the heck a Wheedle is, you're probably not alone few remember the Seattle Supersonics' erstwhile mascot, who looked something like a giant muppet turd and supposedly lived in the Space Needle. He rode a bike around the basketball court and performed other mascotly tasks, and is sometimes reviled as the worst mascot ever amongst people who care about those kinds of things. Wheedle's resurrection as the namesake of this comp is an unlikely posthumous honor, but it works well enough: It gives character to a comp that houses music by a lot of interesting characters. Obviously, Seattle is no stranger to musical icons Jimi Hendrix, Ray Charles, Nirvana, and Quincy Jones all came from there but the city's hippieera funk and soul scene soldiered on noticeably absent of national recognition, basically until this compilation came out. Band names like the Black on White Affair and Cold, Bold & Together emphasize the scene's diversity, and the songs are mostly filled with positive messages of better days to come and individuality. It's the kind of thing that's identifiably West Coast just from its tone it's brighter and thematically lighter than funk from the rest of the country, and Seattle funk has a particular rough, unpolished quality to it that makes it instantly endearing. Though it's a generally strong disc, there are several mindblowing finds here, such as the three offerings from the Black on White Affair, a sampling that sadly constitutes most of their recorded output. These guys had a huge, ultragritty funk sound that rode two sick drummers with psychedelic guitar and roaring organ on top, and the opening track on the record, \"Bold Soul Sister, Bold Soul Brother,\" kicks things off with a crashing intro before settling into a sweet groove full of bubbling riffs and ride cymbal. Other gems include the tight vocal harmonies of Cold, Bold & Together's \"(Stop) Losing Your Chances\" and Dr. Leonard Roberts' mindblowing symphonic horn arrangement on Cookin' Bag's \"This Is Me\", a song that's ridiculously tight and was reportedly nailed in one take. A handful of samplemeplease instrumentals showcase the scene's compositional virtuosity, with the choice breaks of the Johnny Lewis Trio's \"Cissy Strut\" playing nicely against the midtempo bump of the title track, recorded by Spokane transplants Annakonda. The best instrumental is from the Black on White Affair, whose \"A Bunch of Changes\" is filled with a sense of intricate songcraft, wailing Hammond, and tense, claustrophobic guitar. Somewhat more confusing is the Overton Berry Trio's hotel lounge recording of \"Hey Jude\", a wild improvisation built off of the big \"Nah nah nah nanana nah/ Hey, Jude\"s of the original song's outro that shows the group to be quite a lot more exciting than your average hotel combo.  There are some legitimate complaints to be made, chief among them that the tracklist rather unnecessarily tries to tie in three modern funk tracks to the old scene and isn't really convincing on that score. I have to hand it to the Clarence Mack Express they have the old hot funk sound down pat\\xD0but I still would rather have been treated to a few more cuts from the era that the disc purports to cover (it doesn't help that another modern song, Misterholmes & the Brotherhood's \"Thrift Store Find\", is the most boring track on the record). Honestly, though, I can't say too many negative things about a compilation that includes Ron Buford's awesome \"Deep Soul Part 1\", a 1965 song that captures the feel of James Brown's 70s material five years early with an echoey Motown sound for a huge slab of spacious, heavy funk. On top of all the great music on hand, there's obvious enthusiasm in the liner notes by Robert Nesmith and chief compiler DJ Mr. Supreme, not to mention a ton of biographical information, session notes, photos, and anecdotal evidence that Seattle was a great place to be in love with funk in the late 60s and early 70s. In spite of a couple odd detours, Wheedle's Groove is an undeniably solid survey of a scene and an era that holds up well. "}