{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2059/homepage_large.c2afea3f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: The Bandit Label","text":" At 4114 S. Martin Luther King Drive in Chicago sits the specter of a building, a crumbling greystone indistinguishable from the thousands like it that litter the city's South Side. But this house has a unique and bizarre history as the focal point of one the strangest chapters in Chicago's musical history, that of Arrow Brown and his Bandit label. It's a chapter that's been mostly skipped over to this point, but that shouldn't obscure the fact that Brown's completely underthetable recording company/commune/harem produced a clutch of impressive, honeydrenched soul tracks in its 12 years of operation. The late Arrow Brown was by all accounts a shady character, a Mississippi boy who transplanted to Chicago during the Great Migration and in his early adulthood looked to be living the American dream, with a family and a steady job at a soup cannery. But somewhere in the 1960s, he veered onto a different path, leaving his family behind for the seedy underground of the Second City, finally emerging in 1969 in that greystone, subsisting off the welfare checks of the nearly one dozen women he lived and likely consorted with. The Bandit story begins here, as Brown's wild weekend parties gave way to recording sessions featuring a huge cast of inspired amateurs and moonlighting professionals, who played uncredited to skirt musicians' union rules. In spite of the lessthanofficial arrangement, these are some truly hifi recordings, full of incredible string and horn arrangements, inventive backing vocals and funky rhythm sections that don't miss a Motowninspired note. Though Brown used the singers at his disposal almost interchangeably, a few stand out as huge talents, including Brown's own daughter, Tridia. She was a member, such as one could be, of the label's flagship group, the Arrows, later the Majestic Arrows, and she was a great foil for the magnificent, sweet soul falsetto of Larry Johnson, a hugely talented singer who certainly could have gone places had he recorded for a label with the means to get him there. The two of them trade verses on the Majestic Arrows' \"Another Day\", a sweeping soul ballad that typifies Bandit's sweet, orchestral r&b; aesthetic. Another wouldbe star is Linda Balintine, whose two tracks are tough and funky, but the most tragic loss unearthed here is Johnny Davis. Davis was a powerful soul crooner with an especially commanding low range\\xD1on the evidence of the few tracks he recorded, he had huge potential, but was the victim of a brutal murder in 1972 before he ever had a chance to truly blossom. Still, \"You've Got to Crawl to Me\" is a darkly funky tour de force, similar to something a preSuperfly Curtis Mayfield might have cooked up. Given the paltry promotion clout of a label like Bandit, it's easy to understand why none of these songs released with their crudely drawn yellow labels ever became a hit, but there's no doubt several of them could have with the right push. \"One More Time Around\" has an urgent bounce, with a great bassline, ultracatchy backing vocals, a strange, almost David Axelrodish violin arrangement and impassioned lead vocals, possibly by Tridia Brown. \"We Have Love\" is a scorching r&b; ballad, while \"Doing it For Us\" puts the majestic in Majestic Arrows with a massive fluteandstrings intro, couching Larry Johnson's amazing vocal in a bed of Baldwin organ and velvety orchestration. The man responsible for the crazy string parts and fractured rhythms that open \"Love Is All I Need\", Benjamin Wright, later did arrangements for Michael Jackson's Off the Wall. Brown actually attempted to make his son Altyrone Deno Brown into a sort of answer to Michael Jackson, recording his son at age seven belting a couple of monster soul tunes, \"Sweet Pea\" and \"If You Love Me\". The bottom line is that Brown's faith in his son's talent was not misplaced the kid sings his ass off but it may have been too early. As much as he really could sing, he sounds like you'd expect a sevenyear old to sound, and his two songs on this compilation are really more useful for the sake of posterity (though not novelty, oddly enough) than for listening. The younger Brown did appear in several movies, including the Blues Brothers and won a Tony Award for his role in and offBroadway musical version of A Raisin in the Sun, but when the Bandit label died in the early 80s and Arrow Brown's commune collapsed along with his health, he turned his back on show business and understandably gravitated toward a normal, stable life. Though it ended ignominiously, the Bandit story is a truly fascinating one, an extraordinary validation of the theory that truth is a great deal stranger than fiction and the kind of thing that's naturally intriguing to record buffs. As reissues go, this is in line with the Numero Group's other releases to date: meticulously researched, lovingly compiled, painstakingly remastered (sometimes from vinyl, by the sound of it) and uncommonly focused, and that's a big part of its appeal to collectors as well it tells the whole story and pulls no punches. All that's left to do is listen. "}