{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2060/homepage_large.54fcf452.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Yellow Pills","text":" The last thing in the world I want is to be a teenager again. I mean, being an adult is no great shakes or anything, but the desire to relive my formative years is just not there at all I already have enough regrets from those years following me around as it is. So why do I keep singing to myself, over and over, \"I wanna beeeeeeee a teen again\"? It's running through my head just now, even as I'm listening to another song, this catchy, heavenly falsetto that pines for some sort of idealized salad days it can't get back. I can't even remember the name of the band that played it without a quick glance at the tracklisting, but I can't get it out of my head. That's not to say I'm trying to, though. I love a good power pop song, and I'm not opposed to carrying it around with me for a while. Turns out it's by this band called the Toms, and if you've heard of them, wellÉcongratulations. You're one of probably less than a hundred or so people who have. The Toms have three songs on Yellow Pills the latest offering from Numero Group, one of the smartest upstart reissue labels in this vast pop culture wasteland we call America and all three of them are amazing pop orgasms that could have and should have been hits. Hell, what justice is there in the world if none of the songs on this twodisc run of uninterrupted power pop awesomeness ever graced more than a few awkward ears? Fact is, there are 33 nonhits on here, all by bands that never went anywhere in the culture industry, instead settling to the bottoms of dedicated collector hearts and into the backs of dustlined milk crates full of musty, forgotten vinyl that smells like what I imagine God's own sweat must smell like. The biggest name in Jordan Oakes' wellpenned, selfeffacing liners is Jon Brion, who was a member of the Bats, a different band from the great New Zealand indie rockers. Oakes lived and breathed the music you hear on these discs for years, publishing the Yellow Pills zine (10 issues) and compiling the Yellow Pills power pop discs (4 volumes) that lend their name to this new set, and the Numero guys dragged him out of \"retirement\" to have a crack at introducing the curious to some of the best, most overlooked stuff from his own collection. That's part of what makes this work so well it's not a bunch of \"essentials\" or whatever. It's a guy sharing records that crawled out onto his sleeve along with his heart, digging through his music library and playing his favorites for you. It's a labor of love and it's openly nostalgic, which is fine, because the people who will scoop this up and internalize every note of it (it doesn't take more than a few listens, actually) are likely to be in a nostalgic frame of mind anyway\\xD1nostalgic for that certain Beatles/Beach Boys/dB's/Flamin' Groovies/Nick Lowe pure pop perfection that almost no one does these days. The bestknown band on here is definitely the Shoes, whose \"Like I Told You\" is awesome and singular. Sure, these guys listened to Big Star and Badfinger and all that, but they had a unique sound of their own, and it's a spangled, jangly sound with tense, dark rhythms and slinky vocal melodies. From there, it's into the depths of power pop obscurity to a dozen or so bands All Music Guide has never even heard of, skinny tiewearing assortments of talented boys with collective names like Treble Boys, Kids, Tweeds, and the Trend who seemed to have no luck whatsoever with women. They also seemed to have pop confections dripping out of their noses Luxury's \"Green Hearts\" is catchy like Marburg, and dig the awesome guitar parts on \"Hello Mr. Jenkins\" by the Finns. They bounce from speaker to speaker with little melodic doodles in the right channel answered by big chords in the left while the band snottily yet humanely calls out some old Archie Bunker type who can't handle black people, women's lib, or homosexuals. Ooh, yes, there's snot on this thing, too. It can't all be silky smooth harmonies and 600watt guitars. New York's Speedies sound British and they translate a fractured rhythmic sense and evident Buzzcocks influence into spiky popart. Their \"You Need Pop,\" produced by Blondie drummer Clem Burke and never before released, is an addictive, pulsating New Wave beast, quite different from its counterparts on this compilation. Elsewhere, Jack Stack a Track's \"Good Time Music\" is an uncanny Beach Boys homage\\xD1the high tenor sounds exactly like Brian Wilson circa just before he installed the sandbox in his living room. It boggles the brain to know that none of this music was ever the least bit popular despite being the very contagious epitome of pop. Listen to that synth hook on the Bats' \"Not Easy for Me\", while they sing \"it's not easy for me to be in love with you/ Without you,\" speaking for every miserable pining soul on the planet with melodic effortlessness.Yellow Pills isn't just another compilation of old stuff you've never heard of. It's a guy and his record collection, his passion for curiously unloved music and his generosity in sharing it. It's the story of your life, too, with love and loss and adolescent angst and adult regret and even a song called \"I Need That Record\", which of course is the common cry of everyone who'll dig this. Yellow Pills makes me happy and makes me want to play my guitar and sing nonsense. It makes me want to spin it over and over and it makes me wanna beeeeeeee a teen again. If you love guitar pop, you'll love this. "}