{"label":" Modiba Productions","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2064/homepage_large.1cd2993e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"ASAP: The Afrobeat Sudan Aid Project","text":" I'm hoping that the people reading this review are aware of the war in Darfur. Our media have shied away from calling it that, preferring the word genocide, which certainly applies, and the rather loathsome euphemism \"ethnic cleansing,\" a term I've always thought inadequate and much too polite for confronting human savagery at its worst. It is a war, though, separate from the decadeslong fight that engulfed the southern half of Sudan until the signing of a peace agreement earlier this year, but similar to that conflict in that the totalitarian Sudanese central government has responded to local black African unrest with a coordinated campaign of destruction, allowing Arab militias known as Janjaweed carte blanche to burn, pillage, kill, and expel, even in areas where no uprising exists. The express purpose of the campaign, which is indisputably backed by the Sudanese regular military, is to erase Darfur's black African (I refer to them as opposed to the country's Arab population Sudan has a complicated ethnic and religious composition owing to its colonial background) population and their homes along with them. The resulting human flight from Darfur has brought thousands of refugees to neighboring Tchad, a nation in no financial or material shape to accommodate them, and various camps within Sudan, where they survive thanks mostly to international largesse. Without foreign eyes, it's likely that Sudan would simply press its offensive and proceed with its naked genocide unfortunately, the interest of foreign governments is fickle, and a brief outcry in the halls of the UN has devolved into ineffectual grandstanding and squabbling over how best to address the situation. Of course, the delicacy of governments like ours in dealing with the Khartoum regime is at least partially driven by interest in the oil resources that government controls, and it's left up to nongovernmental organizations to provide aid, food and shelter for a massive displaced populace in a part of the world\\xD0the eastern fringe of the Sahara not known for its hospitable conditions. This background established, ASAP: The Afrobeat Sudan Aid Project is a compilation aimed at providing funds for the sundry organizations involved in Darfur relief, and all proceeds from its sale go directly to the cause, with no profit to any of the parties involved the artists, Modiba Productions, Ben Cohen's True Majority and Apple's iTunes store, the latter two being the discs's exclusive distributors (True Majority offers the disc at its website, iTunes obviously offers a download). As the reviewer, I'll say up front that this is a charitable cause I believe in and that in my opinion the donation would be worth making regardless of the contents of the disc. The rating up top reflects perhaps a bit of that conviction on my part, but this caveat is almost unnecessary this compilation is solid from any perspective and represents a fine introduction to the modern descendants of the 1970s Afropop. It's a truly multinational mix, with performers from the U.S., Africa, and Europe, most of whom have called multiple continents home at some point in their lives. The American contingent revolves around New York City's modern Afrobeat orchestras, Antiabalas, Kokolo, and Akoya, and all have donated spectacular tracks for the cause. Antibalas offers a smoking live version of \"Uprising\" full of maniacal sax solos and burbling neoAfrica 70 rhythms, while Akoya's \"USA\" is a striking denouncement of unilateralism with a huge horn arrangement and a great vocal from Kaleta, an Afrobeat veteran who's recorded with both Fela Kuti and Fela's son Femi. Kokolo's two tracks are both excellent: \"Mister Sinister\" careens over whiplash horns into a dub midsection and \"More Consideration\" does something lyrically that almost no funk or Afrobeat ever does, lamenting the inequality of women in cultures the world over. The African artists, most of whom were born in Nigeria and are now based in the U.S., contribute songs in a wide array of styles, most of which are actually less indebted to Fela than their American counterparts. Ikwunga's \"Di Bombs\" is spoken poetry with a chugging Afrobeat backing, Ikwunga intoning evenly and calmly, \"Di jets di jets/ Di jets are built in Germany/ But the air raids are for Freetown/ The air raids are for Asmara.\" Keziah Jones offers up thumping r&b; on \"Garan Garan,\" with an ultrasimple bass and drum groove backing up his vocal, which is based on an old Nigerian folk tune. Dele Sosimi and Franck Biyong & Massak each throw down monstrous slabs of deep Afrogroove, but the biggest revelation here might be Wumni, whose hyperkinetic dance track \"What a See\" is tailormade for a postM.I.A. world. She dives sweating into a sumptuous beat with rubbery rapping and spastic scatting for a result that's stunning and difficult to classify. For good measure, there's even a classic mid70s Tony Allen track (\"Progress\") to sweeten the deal, though by the time it shows up in the tracklisting, the disc has already proved its worth several times over. Like most charity releases, there's little direct relevance in most of these songs to what's happening in Darfur (the remix of Akoya Afrobeat Ensemble's \"Star Wars\" features samples from news reports on Darfur, and that's the only explicit mention), but unlike most charity releases, this has a cohesion and singularity of purpose that make it very listenable in one sitting. The way I see it, there are two reasons to check this out: First, it's a phenomenal introduction to current Afropop, and second, it's for a good cause. You don't often get to vote your conscience by buying a good record, so this gets my wholehearted recommendation. "}