{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2068/homepage_large.0a7d8bfd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Childish Music","text":" Imagine allowing kids aged 36 do whatever they please inside a room of synthesizers, drum machines, Theremins, and uncovered turntables (loaded with their parents' records), and then recording the results. Maybe a rhythm could arise for a few seconds with a couple of thwacks here and there, and then there could be the violent, keyboard zigzags produced by fingers stuck in curious mouths. Perhaps, a renaissance in \"chance music\" could be realized. Such fantasies came to mind when I sat listening to Childish Music, and wondered what actual kids would think of it. Ekkehard Ehlers amassed this compilation of Japanese and European posttechno and folktronic artists whose work is deemed \"childish.\" To his credit, Ehlers is a man of great courage and pluck in an art world often lost without a theory to explain it. He is best as a deconstructionist who has romance override any freezedried sterility that cynics stamp on conceptual electronic music, whether it is his homage to Albert Ayler and Robert Johnson or releasing his post9/11 angst through a bass clarinet. His premises of having musical grownups act like nonmusical kids earns a few brownie points, but the final product lacks key qualities of \"childishness.\" I mean, where is the restlessness, the pretensions to being educational, and the playgroundrhyme grossness? Instead we mainly get melancholic ballads that yearn for simpler times as told by their acoustic guitar and music box melodies. This music is clearly for postpostadolescent adults, as sad music would bore nearly every runt to crocodile tears. If anything, it's just another gentle, tweeelectronic pop record, but sans the healthy discord of say, DAT Politics (who are strangely absent here) or the lysergic depth of Electric Company. The disc's cheesecake shot of a schoolgirl playing telephone with a turtle confirms what demographic this CD is marketed for. Still, a pleasant bafflement is amiss here.  Opener, Fan Club Orchestra's \"Mika Bubble Sing\" should have been Childish's template. Some scamp tries to gargle a tune with a mouthful of water with Mouse on Martian tone tweakings, provoking some cheap thrills and an idea for a Highlights rainy day activity guide. The following Beach Boys/Muppet Babies pop of Maher Shahal Hash Baz's \"Good Morning\" keeps the faith, although my cavities ache from its sweetness.  Afterward, the compilation is divided into either digestible lullabies for posttoddler adults who need the whiff of PlayDoh or an animal cracker snack to give them reasons for living, or a peculiar translation of childhood memories into friendly, eightheaded beasts that come out from under the bed at night.  Harald \"Sack\" Ziegler's \"Ritterball\" is the clear standout: A Frenchsounding lad seemingly chats with the producer while a haunting, street march beat arises in the distance with a guitar clearing its throat from time to time. Nobukazu Takemura, who deftly exemplifies how \"childishness\" can be written by digital glitches, delivers \"Vibrante\" a rather ominous polka tune where a motherly Japanese lullaby assures that everything is fine while awkward melodies on the accordion and xylophone warn emit a \"the sky is falling!\" alert, that seems to be no lie. Folktronicist Oren Ambarchi's \"Creepy Crawl\" warps an electric guitar with a rickety, whammy bar and backwardslooped vocals speaking in tongue. Devendra Banhart's \"Make It Easier\" is a soothing, clapalong gospel grown from the root in cold ground, making me worry about the indifference that children might have toward something so meaningful.  But why did Matthew Herbert rock me to sleep causing me to wake up in four in the morning to wonder what sociopolitical subtexts about dissent against globalization that I missed? As Dr. Rockit, he executes \" Lullaby for William\" a lukewarm bossa novish lullaby all drenched in amniotic guitar tones and simple percussion that could be cracked U.S. Air Force rations recovered from an Afghan minefield. I mean, he once slightly charmed me with his house beats concocted from Starbucks cups and Big Mac wrappers what some could call an actual \"childish\" musical moment. "}