{"label":" The Believer","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2072/homepage_large.eeaba99e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Believer 2005 Music Issue CD","text":" If you're not already aware of it, The Believer is the life partner of Dave Eggers' literary journal McSweeney's, a monthly collection of essays, reviews, interviews, and somewhat random columns. Populated by the likes of Nick Hornby, Rick Moody, artist Charles Burns, and the occasional Sedaris, it rather quickly and effortlessly assumed the position of periodical meeting place for the young, hip, and literary. Given that we aspire to be all of the above, you might imagine that a lot of Pitchfork staffers are on the subscription rolls of The Believer, and if it didn't cost so much, you'd be right. Nevertheless, the mutual publication love party only goes so far. The Believer planted its flag on the litcrit scene with an essay by editorinchief Heidi Julavits declaring an end to \"snark,\" the practice of being a big mean bully hiding behind a byline and an artsy NYTBR illustration. Pitchfork, of course, is The House that Snark Built, and you'll have to pry the snark out of our Cold. Dead. Haaaaaands. Due to our different territories, these irreconcilable differences aren't a problem 11 months out of the year, but every June an invading party is sent with The Believer Music Issue and its accompanying compact disc supplement. Now if there were ever an example of the narcissism of small differences, it's this; the CD included with the 2004 music issue was like a mix disc predicting our 2004 Top Albums list, featuring as it did folks like the Books, Ted Leo, the Walkmen, and TV on the Radio. This year's installment is likewise packed with Forkfriendly artists, although this time with a twist rather than simply throwing together the old previouslyreleased material, The Believer challenges the participants to share the gift of royalties and cover a peer's composition. 'Tis a noble concept, allowing artists to pay rare tribute to contemporaries while keeping them from dusting off that cover of \"Blue Jay Way\" they recorded the night the bass player was too drunk to pluck. On the other hand, the stable of musicians selected for inclusion and the material they, in turn, decide to remake encapsulates the dullness of this strain of indie, a drab made exponentially stronger by the enforced crosspollination. For The Believer has a fetish for indie rock that's literate (no duh) and guitarbased, and so we get a collection every bit as singersongwriterheavy as Starbuck's music except with a lower profile call it independentcoffeestoredownthestreetfromStarbuck's music. Who else could open a literary journal's music issue compilation than the Decemberists? Covering Joanna Newsom's \"Bridges and Balloons\", Colin Meloy sets the tone for the hour to come by performing it as a oneman acoustical jam, replacing Newsom's Lisa Simpson with his own Professor Frink. It's good; I prefer Newsom's compositions with a little more foundation. Also good on the simbusking front is The Mountain Goats' cover of the Silver Jews' \"Pet Politics\", about as perfect a musical match as you can find. Other unplugged moments do little to rebut my coffeeshop impressions, such as the Cat Power clone twofer in the middle (Josephine Foster and Cynthia G. Mason) or somebody named Two Gallants picking up the Neil Diamond worship where Crooked Fingers left off. There's little to write 10page essays about in terms of fullband performances either, with Spoon absolutely sleepwalking through Yo La Tengo's \"Decora\" (not that somnambulant isn't perhaps the appropriate means of addressing YLT) and the reappearance of the Shins' listless version of the Postal Service's \"We Will Become Silhouettes\". Only a couple tracks stand out as more than novelty and raritiescomp filler: Jim Guthrie's take on the Constantines' \"Nighttime/Anytime (It's Alright)\", which remakes the testosteronerock of the original as a slowburn violin funk, and CocoRosie's nofi reinvention of Damien Jurado's \"Ohio\". Then there's Devendra Banhart taking on Antony & The Johnson's \"Fistful of Love\", which depending on your taste for unique vocal stylings, is either the sound of hell incarnate or a warbly dream come true. So apologies to Snarkwatch, but this collection does little to increase its value beyond free handout. While the concept is noble, the editors would be advised to go with a less onedimensional roster for next year's issue, to stretch out beyond the tight boundaries of acousticfolk, freakfolk, and indie pop. A collection of contemporary covers like this one might work with a greater variety of sounds, or at least artists who listen to a greater variety of sounds why is the music world covered by The Believer devoid of hiphop, electronic, or anything not made by (usually acoustic) guitars or the occasional harp? While the magazine is usually adept at pointing people towards wrongfully neglected corners of literature and art, this insular compilation does nothing but point at itself. "}