{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2075/homepage_large.95a39224.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rough Trade Counter Culture 05","text":" Sigh. It's so hard to be a tastemaker, you all have no idea. Sure, it's probably tough to be a doctor or a soldier or a fireman, but really, when you think about, being a tastemaker is probably the most difficult occupation of all. It's such a drag having to wade through all that music, year in and year out, to find the few diamond needles in the overwhelming publicistbaled haystack. Then, of course, there's the grueling sevenday holiday retreat where the ruling council meticulously puts the releases into proper, absolutely completely scientifically objective order. Finally, you release your definitive yearreview to the public, and all the ungrateful plebes can do is hysterically bemoan the omissions and nitpick the standings. Christ, people, how do you think we run things here, some kind of \"democratic\" poll? Our friends at the Rough Trade record shops surely understand our pain. The UK's highestesteemed record store, Rough Trade also carries the heavy burden of the tastemaker, looked to by a thirsty world to choose what choice music was worth saving from the previous year before it drifts off into foggy memory. For four years, the record shop has obliged with a twodisc compilation summing up the last calendar year, a sort of recordstoreguytogo package of the tracks and bands you weren't cool enough to already know about. At 50 tracks, the Rough Trade clerks certainly had plenty to endorse in 2005, and the selection sprawls across the full inventory of genres...that aren't hiphop. Unlike the loose freakfolk/dancepunk discsegregation of the 2004 edition, Counter Culture 05 is more of a mixed bag, appropriate for a year that didn't have a clearly definitive underground movement to feign bored embarrassment about in twothree years' time. Deftly avoiding the dangers associated with ranking, the organization of Counter Culture 05 is dictated purely by aesthetic flow, which, when you're dealing with a collection that includes both Jandek and Franz Ferdinand, is no small task. In its guise as a guide to the best work of 2005, many usual suspects appear: Low and SleaterKinney, Boards of Canada and Matthew Herbert, The Fall and Elvis Costello (with the Brodsky Quartet, for additional geriatricity). Unsurprisingly, Rough Trade's rookie discoveries closely parallel those of this here humble webzine in places, with the store also buying into the horriblename/awesomeband trend headlined by Serena Maneesh, Test Icicles, and the band with the clapping and the Yeahsaying. But Counter Culture's best use is as an early warning system about UK groups that haven't quite hit the radar yet in the colonies, like the surprisingly authentic 60'spsychpop of Modlang, girlgroup revivalists the Pipettes, What's Your Rupture signees Long Blondes, or Katzenjammers, a band that trust me is represented by an excellently gritty steeldrum interpretation of Gary Numan's \"Cars\". The second disc goes on to shine a spotlight on the slepton Pixiescowpunk of Brakes (Rough Trade's #1 album of 2005), and shows that spastic newwave revival is in full flight with examples from Good Shoes and CDOASS. The desire to comprehensively document the best of 2005's obscure and exotic (that aren't hiphop) occasionally leads Counter Culture 05 to trip up on songs completely out of step with the compilation's edgy youngpeople tone: the throatsinging of Albert Kuvezin and YatKha, for instance, or the kids' home recording project of Street Gangland Rhythms Band 1. Such inconsistency can be expected to plague any compilation with goals as ambitious as the Counter Culture series, leaving it more useful as a sampler than as a continuous listen; an appetizer for further research, not a main course. In this manner, this collection serves the noble mission of the tastemaker, graciously pointing the way towards the Promised Land of cool bands. I know your struggle, Rough Trade, and I salute thee. "}