{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2076/homepage_large.b86d4008.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rough Trade Shops: Counter Culture 04","text":" Hey remember 2004? Unless you care about nuclear proliferation, the Geneva Conventions or wholesale death/destruction in countries that aren't the U.S. of freakin' A., that was a pretty good year. The Red Sox shattered the Curse. Animal Collective (disc 1, track 20) deconstructed SMiLE!style harmonies and resurrected them in a misty, pantheistic glen. The Go! Team (disc 2, track 4) rocketed over cynics like so many triumphant TVtheme samples and blockparty beats. Speaking of, Bloc Party (disc 2, track 22) here offer some of their undeniably accessible postwhathaveyou. At London's Rough Trade Shops, 2004 was apparently a year of sleepencrusted avantfolk (disc 1) and steroidal dancepunk (disc 2, with happy exceptions). Omissions are legion, welldocumented, and fun to point out: Mike Skinner's thousand quid? Lost again! Arcade Fire's Funeral? They've never been born! The Concretes? Their name's actually on the album cover, but I guess they don't watch Target ads overseas. Over two discs and 49 songs, the Rough Trade crew requite themselves better as historical curators than as presentday tastemakers. Their greatest discoveries are actually rediscoveries, like 1966's \"Please Stay\", an achingly desperate, farsuperior Drifters cover by overlooked Merseybeat sextet the Cryin' Shames (not to be confused with Nuggets vets the Cryan' Shames). Candi Staton turns in tearstained turnofthe70s Southern soul classic \"You Don't Love Me No More\", reissued last year as part of a welcome Astralwerks anthology. The Cramps' backing on Queen of Rockabilly Wanda Jackson's recent rerecording of her 1962 \"Funnel of Love\" whisks the song into the psychedelic tumbleweed of First Editionera Kenny Rogers. As for new stuff: The quiet disc (disc 1, in case you weren't paying attention) starts with an ethereal sigh, \"Believer\", courtesy of Norwegian group Susanna and the Magic Orchestra, which includes Jaga Jazzist alums, and somnambulates from there, only occasionally bumping into wakeful brilliance. For every \"Let's Get Lost\", a typically depressive Elliott Smith song in \"Mother Nature's Son\" bake, there's a moodkiller by CocoRosie or Pony Up!, with passable but forgettable folk from the likes of Willy Mason between. Holly Golightly gets off the comp's best oneliner (\"The diamonds you gave me still sparkle like diamonds\"), Britta Phillips & Dean Wareham offer a rare dud awash in hokey newage soundeffects (it's raining Z's!), Coil's hilariously forced rhymes make \"Sex With Sun Ra\" sound worse than celibacy. The loud disc (part dieux) hails from a parallel 2004 where indie kids, upon learning how to dance, refused to dance to anything smacking of pop. Annie, M.I.A., we hardly knew ye. Gang of Four comparisons have grown tiresome because dudes keep boring us in their name: Do Me Bad Things (guitarshredding dancepunk!), Schwab (impending lawsuitmandated namechange dancepunk!), Measles Mumps Rubella (vaccinateyourchildrenoryou'llbeforcedtolistentothis dancepunk!). Liars' noisy change in direction has never been so appreciated, nor has Death From Above 1979's visceral magnetism. When dancing to guitars grows tiresome, we groove electro: Mu, the Knife, the unfortunate new Le Tigre. Alter Ego's \"Rocker\" is a bona fide dancefloor filler, and that Throbbing Gristle remix is pretty OK, but given a 2004 like this it's no wonder the Rough Trade guys find their most pleasant memories in music's past. "}