{"label":" PsuedoArcana","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2077/homepage_large.56a858d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brent S. Sirota","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Tone of the Universe (= The Tone of the Earth)","text":" Drone is liturgy. Since its midcentury installation in the repertoire of experimental music, drone has been coded with naked aspirations: people looking to the holy East; people looking to the archaic; people looking into deep space, into the pure machine, into the stranger mind. Drone has always been enamored of the faraway. The sacred, as always, must be imported from there. Its devotees are few but fervent. But the faith has always seemed strangely incommunicable: It doesn't seem to get many converts, just initiates and infidels and no commerce between them. Missionary work is a slog. Those who have made stabs at evangelization know the response is usually incredulity rather than hostility. Minimalist classics have been returned to me with a blankness bordering on incomprehension, as if I'd handed out videotapes of television snow and demanded an assessment of character arcs. So it is rare to find yourself born again to a random airing of You Are My Everlovin'/Celestial Power. If you own it, chances are you've already been saved by it. But the seekers of the world owe a just debt of gratitude to Antony Milton's PseudoArcana label for offering up a fine little hymnal for our headphone communions. True to form, the call to prayer comes by way of the Perseus Cluster, a gathering of galaxies some 250 million light years away, which astronomers believe has been humming a steady Bflat drone since the universe was a toddler. Marshalling the extensive and shadowy networks developed between NASA and the New Zealand free noise scene in the wane of the Carter administration, a tribute album to the bass cluster has emerged. And though of dubious scientific merit and obscure political import, The Tone of the Universe (=The Tone of the Earth) is a monumental collection of music. Appropriate to a work of intergalactic negotiation, the compilation draws from the farthest flung reaches of terrestrial drone: New Zealand, the UK, Italy, Argentina, Finland, and the U.S. have sent delegates, like some kind of very slow and poorlylit Olympiad. This geographical variety translates brilliantly into sound, every contributor seemingly speaking in his or her own musical language, and none falling back on the ponderous immobility that can render minimalism so oppressive. On \"Map of Dusk\", the Blithe Sons, charter members of San Francisco's illustrious Jewelled Antler collective, dispense with their California pastorals and backyard musique concrete for something less humane: a pestilential little cloud of harmonium evaporations and feedback expanding and compressing like an iron lung. Peter Wright's idyllic \"Haboob\" one of the collection's high points is barely drone in any sense of the word, a lyrical 12string guitar prayer plucked over delicately tremulous strings. The heavy trappings of bowandscrape drone are eschewed in Finnish experimentalist Keijo's \"Stellar Wind\", a weirdly rollicking folk blues ramble. Even shot through with warbling treated winds and chirpy electronica, the track seems more suited to the high plains than the higher nebulae. And for those somehow not satiated by last year's sprawling 3xCD set, Pontiac Lady, the mighty Vibracathedral Orchestra add a short jagged slab of noiserock much more uproarious than their usual skittering ceremony. \"3 Bb Moods\" lurches into Acid Mothers territory with shrapnel guitar lines exploding over psilocybin raga. Vibracathedral's explosive excursion into electric heavyland resolves into Hands of Satisfaction's long \"Version 1\", 11 minutes of noise pointillism, where dead guitar bursts punctuate soft clatter and glitch. Expansive and not entirely successful, \"Version 1\" flags early and doesn't vary its formula. The second disc of the collection is dominated by contributions from the Celebrate Psi Phenomenon crowd. C/Psi/P label head Campbell Kneale's own Birchville Cat Motel serves up a behemoth of bright and majestic skree \"I Am But Dust\". Few practitioners of the art have the natural virtuosity of Kneale, who, like surgeons and serial killers, succeeds by sheer dint of patience. Kneale trusts his own ideas and is unafraid to let them unfold over great durations; and the eightminutes of washedout organs and screaming guitars in \"I am But Dust\" proceed with the pomp and circumstance of a coronation procession. Seht's unnerving and appropriately titled \"Antarctica Download (Edit)\" turns warm analog cold, with bright keyboards dripped as icicles ominously from all directions. The piercing scrapes and gongs of 1/3 Octave Band's \"Dominion\", on the other hand, are harsh and unpleasant, albeit mercifully brief. The Tone of the Universe concludes with the grand galactica of the brothers Opalio, the Italian sonic cosmonauts better known as My Cat is an Alien. Amidst bells and phasers and dubious space opera sound effects, an accented continental repeatedly urges us to \"hear the voice of the cosmos.\" But to his credit he does not say precisely where one must listen for it.  Even with the odd failed experiment or heavyhanded concoction, The Tone of the Universe on the whole succeeds brilliantly, not by paying homage to heavenly bodies resonating 57 octaves below the limits of human hearing, but by bringing the cold and scattered outskirts of the musical galaxy a little closer to hand. There is great solace in hearing that there are still strange goingson abroad on this planet. And that, brothers and sisters, is truly the good news. "}