{"label":" War Child Music","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2080/homepage_large.9a97b024.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Help: A Day in the Life","text":" When the first Help! compilation was issued in 1995, it was billed as the fastestmade album of all time, with 20 of the UK and Ireland's rock and dance stars entering the studio on a Monday and the LP in the shops the following Saturday. For the most part, the record organized by charity War Child to aid Bosnian children victimized by war in the Balkans was an artistic as well as a humanitarian triumph, offering the first airing of Radiohead's \"Lucky\", almost two years prior to OK Computer, and featuring excellent tracks from the Boo Radleys, Oasis, Orbital, Portishead, the KLF (as The One World Orchestra), and others. Ten years later, the War Child organization has repeated the effort, pulling together 22 indiefriendly UK artists to record tracks with the results, Help: A Day in the Life, for sale as downloads the following day. (A CD version of the project will be released on Independiente later this month.) In order to aim its quick turnaround, initial pressings of the 1995 charity disc offered no tracklisting or list of contributors, neither of which was missed most artists were easily identifiable: Indeed, of those who contributed to the original Help!, only Kerrrang! fave Terrorvision and thirdtier Britpop band Salad are now mostly forgotten and the latter was propped up on the comp by dueting with the Specials' Terry Hall. Had listeners been forced to guess who's who on the current Help disc, it would have been much more difficult to distinguish between a largely faceless group of meatandpotatoes guitar pop acts and new wave revivalists. Sadly, the most telling thing about the record is its condemnation of the UK's indieminded gatekeepers in the years since Britpop. The first Help! took place just a few weeks after the BlurOasis chart battle, a moment when Britpop's creativity was crashing but its popularity and the belief that its success was tied to England's national identity was ebbing. It felt like a time when normally tangential artists could command the spotlight, and to their great credit they did so in order to boost War Child. It was also around this time when Britpop quickly devolved into retroobssessed conservatism where ambition was equated with chart success rather than artistry, and the best way to reclaim the glories of midSixties British guitar rock was to lazily build MOR bridges to the past. Ten years later the UK indie circuit is so unadventurous and tepid that we have the editorinchief of the NME scrunching his nose up at Antony and the Johnsons' Mercury Prize win, calling an album of gorgeous cabaretpop \"too weird\" for his audience. So step forward Keane, the Zutons, the Coral, Damien Rice, Elbow, HardFi, Razorlight, Kaiser Chiefs, etc., and take your seat at the current Help! table, where, unsurprisingly, none of them punch above their weight. The biggest draw on the disc is a new Radiohead track. That song, \"I Want None of This\", is no \"Lucky\" but it's one of the disc's highlights Thom on a piano in his maudlin, \"You and Whose Army?\" mold, mixing funeral dirge with fingerwaggling. Many others chose slower tempos as well, such as the usually nervy neowave bands Maxïmo Park, HardFi, and Bloc Party, and the allaction Go! Team, with only the last two delivering quality tracks. Belle & Sebastian continue to toss curveballs: Their \"The Eighth Station of the Cross Kebab House\", with its elastic bass and offkilter percussion, could have fit nicely on the Books EP. Pete Doherty's Babyshambles, the Magic Numbers, Sudaneseborn hiphop artist Emmanual Jal, and Coldplay all run in place. Antony is here, dueting with Boy George, on a mundane reading of \"Happy Xmas (War Is Over)\". Covers of \"Goodbye Yellow Brick Road\" (Keane with Faultline) and \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\" (the Kasier Chiefs) were more puzzling choices. Both are breakup songs one about a young gay man leaving his sugar daddy; the other sees the jilted learning his fate through heresay and rumor and neither work. Keane's effort is largely innocuous, while the Chiefs' grasp at replicating a mix of \"Ghost Town\"style dub and dread and the Slits' own frenetic \"Grapevine\" cover falls flat. So here's the pride of UK indie, and the best tracks are from a cartoon band and a group from Mali. Damon Albarn one of three holdovers from the first set (along with Radiohead and the Manic Street Preachers) does a 180 from \"Eine Kleine Lift Musik\", the woozy musichall ballad he and Blur offered 10 years ago. Here he slips into panglobal mode with the rather haunting, almost reflective \"Hong Kong\", which sounds more like his longtime band's Think Tank than a Gorillaz track. Tuareg band Tinariwen, an influence on Albarn, and their Tishoumaren rebel music nicely fits the theme of the record the band formed in a refugee camp in the 1980s and the drony track projects a blend of weariness and spaciousness, solitary anguish and a need for community. What's missing this time around? Nonguitar music, for the most part. Ten years ago, Massive Attack, Orbital, Chemical Brothers (as remixers), Portishead, Andrew Weatherall and James Hardway, the Stereo MCs, Neneh Cherry, and the KLF all appeared, most of them offering positive contributions. This record's lone electronic artist, Mylo, does little to support the need for more of the same and the shoehorning of Dizzee Rascal into the dismal BandAid 20 release shows the peril of tokenism but it's still disappointing and indicative of the current UK indie mentality that rhythm is largely absent from this global charity record. It's also a fundamental failure of the organizers, who've drawn a narrow pool of artists at the detriment of the record's ultimate goal raising as much money as possible for War Child. It's not difficult to imagine that a wider variety of artists or the inclusion of pop, r&b;, grime, and dance music would translate to a larger number of potential buyers. Unfortunately, the worthwhile project also risks becoming relatively lost amidst the outpouring of aid and money for Hurricane Katrina relief. On the face of it, the work of War Child providing assistance to children affected by war and conflict and hurricane relief are drastically different; one an ongoing, manmade problem and the other a natural disaster. In another sense, War Child does exactly what was not done for thousands of Katrina victims provide aid for those who can't help themselves. It's a deeply unfashionable idea in today's \"ownership society\" America, but just as Katrina horrifically demonstrated the failings of such policies, spotlighting the America that the architects of an ownership society seek to sweep under the rug, to abandon, to demonize even as they're being preyed upon within their own communities by those who use violence as an organizing tool and power grab, War Child seeks to do the same around the world. "}