{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2081/homepage_large.f1091903.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Blank Field","text":" In 2002, the nomadic Montreal electronic arts collective Champ Libre enlisted maverick composer Francisco López as musical curator for its multimedia \"Cité des Ondes\" event. For the occasion López assembled a formidable international roster of experimental sound artists that included such disparate talents as Japanese noise mainstay Merzbow, Australian avantgarde guitarist Oren Ambarchi, and Portland, Ore.based sound sculptor Daniel Menche. Now López has edited and mixed Blank Field, a compilation of live performances from the event. And despite the inherent limitations of this decontextualized format, the collection proves to be a remarkable, frequently stupefying artifact that veers madly from one sonic extremity to another. Performed and recorded live at Montreal's Craig pumping station a structure built in 1887 to help control the floodwaters of the St. Lawrence River this music was created as just one aspect of a program that also showcased various electronic, architectural, and video art installations. In his own work, López has advocated an immersive listening environment, sometimes going as far as issuing blindfolds to his audience members in order to enhance their focus on the music. Here it's left unspecified whether or not these performances were originally accompanied by any other visual presentations, but nevertheless each of these outwardly diverse pieces share a certain sense of openended space that grants them a vaguely unfinished character, as if they're intended to be just another vibrant feature of an active urban landscape. The six solo artists represented here were selected by López for what he obliquely refers to as the \"physicalization\" of their sound, placing little importance on instrumental technique or process as they each formulate their own aural universe. First up is a relatively brief electronic track by France's Manon Anne Gillis, followed by a more prolonged piece from U.S.based composer Michael Northam. These tracks are both finely textured sequences of tiny, enigmatic occurrences, with Northam's in particular making such extensive use of prolonged silence and barelyaudible drones that if you've got a moderately busy household it's only through intense concentration that you'll be able to detect whether anything is happening at all. Things pick up considerably with Ambarchi's piece, an exquisite lattice of humming, gently plucked guitar tones that compares favorably to some of Loren Connor's most lyrical solo work. From there it's a rather abrupt segue into the digital anthill of Japan's Shunichiro Okada, who presents an itchy, beatless series of scrapes and buzzes with little regard for listener comfort. After that, prepare yourself to be deafened by the brutal onetwo sucker punch of Merzbow and Menche, especially if you've still got your speakers cranked from trying to hear the Northam track. Though predictably noisy, Merzbow's contribution is actually a reasonably tempered affair, its grainy, unsettled lurch providing one of the collection's only instances of discernable rhythm. And Menche furnishes the album a fittingly radical capper with his droning symphonic swells and amplified organic contortions. Throughout it all, López does his best to create in these pieces some semblance of continuity, allowing each track to bleed into the next with a cinematic slow dissolve. But for the most part he has wisely chosen to leave himself out of the frame, realizing that it's the bewildering multiplicity of these distinctive voices that gives Blank Field its strange and potent juice. "}