{"label":" Rhino / WEA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2082/homepage_large.736d23c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Just Say Sire","text":" I can't honestly recommend that you drop $59 dollars on this box set, but I can certainly advise that you damn the revisionist historians and love it in spirit. Because there's a fight going on a fight over who constituted the \"real\" alternative audience of the 1980s and I'm making it my responsibility to put you on the right side of the thing. To get a sense of the battle lines, just listen to the Dead Milkmen's \"Instant Club Hit\" (1987), a fake dance track in which a band of American punk pranksters take their shots at goths, \"art fags,\" \"boring bisexuals,\" and \"Danceateria types\": \"You'll dance to anything by the Smiths/ You'll dance to anything by Depeche Commode [sic].\" One of few things funnier than this song is the fact that the stuff inside it is still at issue. Poke around, and you'll find plenty of people who'll tell you that the real, important music of the 1980s came from bugeyed Californian punks (like Black Flag), beerfriendly Midwestern rockers (like Hüsker Dü), and D.C. hardcore kids (like Minor Threat); that major labels did nothing but ruin greedy bands (like the Replacements); that makeup, synthesizers, and the Milkmen's \"stupid Europeans with big hairdos\" didn't matter and/or exist; and that singersongwriters, \"rootsy\" music, and adult pop were a million miles away. In the opposite camp, you'll find cleareyed realists with actual memories, who'll happily admit that as of the mid80s plenty of wellinformed people really liked R.E.M. and Suzanne Vega. Both of these groups can be right, in the end, but notice how much the first of them relies on selective memory? Every time they talk about the \"real underground\" or nitpick about which bands were on truly independent labels, what they're really doing is writing off those who genuinely liked 10,000 Maniacs or Echo & the Bunnymen the equivalent of someone, 20 years from now, pretending that this decade was all about Wolf Eyes and Lightning Bolt, and nobody listened to Feist, or Annie, or Radiohead. Here's the truth: If you flipped on your local college radio station toward the close of the 80s, chances are you'd hear all of this stuff, jumbled together Milkmen and Minutemen, Ministry and Morrissey, plus Edie Brickell to boot. Arguing about which 80s breeds were important and which were merely incidental forgets the sheer variety of stuff that got thrown into the notquitemainstream fold. And what's bizarre is this: Even in our current climate, where mp3 trading has supposedly made it so that everyone is popfriendly, funloving, nonrockist, and openeared, the Real Underground Music camp still seems to be winning this argument. Why this matters: Because Seymour Stein's Sire Records, an imprint founded in 1966 and folded into Warner Bros a decade later, was a pretty major source of the quirky, oftenaccessible, sometimespopular \"college rock\" the Undergrounders are so keen on telling you they paid no attention to and this box collects three CDs and one video disc of the label's peakera highlights. As a corrective to some people's critical histories, it's a joy. Better still: If I were rating this collection based on the pure quality of the music it contains, as opposed to a whole bunch of considerations about your time and your money, it'd be up there in the eights. Sire's catalog spent most of its time straddling the lines of stylish, accessible pop and acts just a little too different to push at the mainstream. Stein was attuned to New York City punk (Ramones, Richard Hell), and even more so to its newwave trajectory (Talking Heads, Tom Tom Club, Kid Creole). He picked winners from crossAtlantic new wave (Rezillos, Plastic Bertrand), and followed synthpop from its grotty start (Telex, the Normal) to its stupidEuropeanbighair heyday (Erasure, Pet Shop Boys, Soft Cell). Across the length of the 80s, Stein's Sire played the same role Geffen's DGC played for the 90s, rounding up the popular, accessible end of America's collegerock guitar bands (Dinosaur Jr, the Replacements, the Ocean Blue) and maybe more importantly licensing the rest from the UK (Cure, Smiths, and Bunnymen), to the point where the 1990 edition of their Just Say... samplers managed to import early tastes of My Bloody Valentine's \"Soon\" and Primal Scream's \"Higher Than the Sun\". And Sire also served as a home for adult, mainstreamy pop acts whose sounds or personas scared everyone else off, such as k.d. lang or Israeli icon Ofra Haza. What does this mean? It means that instead of the straightline history of Important Underground Bands, this box offers something that looks more like what some of your 19771993 analogs might really have been paying attention to. Like the Pretenders, pop godfathers of the \"college\" audience. Like synthpop, or like 2Toneish cuts from Madness and the English Beat. Like Wilco and Uncle Tupelo, back when \"rootsy\" music was considered polite and adult and nichemarketed, instead of being touted as progressive. Like fresh or just plain lovable pop singles: Seal's futurist \"Crazy\", Modern English's \"I Melt with You\", and the Cult's \"Fire Woman\" (or the Farm's \"Groovy Train,\" more for nostalgia than quality). Like Brian Wilson and Lou Reed, popular figures important to the \"underground\" in the same studied way they are today. Like the Rezillos' \"Top of the Pops\", the most gleefully spiky newpunk single ever notreleased by the Buzzcocks, or Aztec Camera's \"Oblivious\", the distilled core of the kind of pretty 1980s British guitarpop your Black Flag fans would spit on. And, this era marking the birth of the music video, a full disc of those from M's \"Pop Muzik\" to the Replacements and Madonna to Belly and Aphex Twin. Now look: I don't necessarily fault the Undergrounders. All they're really trying to do is narrow their critical history down to talk about the \"important\" things that happened in the underground, the things that really changed. They can leave it to pop writers to talk about synthesizers and \"traditional\" guitar bands and the slurs they'd have thrown at those types are certainly true for some of the acts here, from the Mighty Lemon Drops to Martini Ranch. Maybe it really isn't so important to talk about a singersongwriter like Suzanne Vega when people today will just pick up Keren Ann records doing the exact same thing. But in that process of narrowing everything down, the first victim is, well, reality and any hope of talking seriously about the actual music culture of people who were probably a lot like you. Twenty years from now, when someone's going on about the underground of the oughts, some of you may need to step forward and let it be known: A lot of you really like the Arcade Fire, too. A lot of you really like the Decemberists, M.I.A., Devendra Banhart, Madvillain, Antony & the Johnsons, the Fiery Furnaces, Basement Jaxx, and whatever other acts the future writes off as conventional or popular in the interest of its Grand Narrative of Music Going Forward. Their narrative may be \"right\" and \"important,\" but yours will be \"true,\" and therefore probably \"more interesting.\" "}