{"label":" Modular","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2084/homepage_large.7355cd9e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Leave Them All Behind","text":" In the battle to be crowned this year's Official DJ Mix for Indie Kids aka the Erlend Øye Award the frontrunners have already been set. In the first gate, the pop diva of choice for American hipsters, spinning a mix of Norwegian compatriots and remixed indie superstars, it's Annie! (5:3) Running in the adjacent lane, sometimes beatmaker for 2005's other underground diva M.I.A., he's already been on the indiemix radar with his Hollertronix and Favela sets, the man who wears winter coats even in sweathot clubs: Diplo! (7:2) But is there a dark horse in the running? One glance at the tracklist stats for downunder label Modular's Leave Them All Behind, and you've got to be thinking upset: Death From Above 1979, Cut Copy, the Fiery Furnaces, Bloc Party, even crossover du jour the Killers. All bands on the precipice of being solid indiefriendly dance music, just looking for the right remixer or laptop jockey to gently coax out their inner discotheque. Given the proper presentation, it's a lineup that could easily become this season's goto cheat sheet for indiedance night DJs. Of course, this is because all the bands listed above are firstandforemost rock bands, as is pretty much everyone in attendance on Leave Them All Behind. Rock bands taking enthusiastic part in the current boom industry of newwave revival, sure, and rock bands given clubready makeovers by electronic sympathizers like Mylo and Phones, check. But the mix's crossover potential is based on the prevalence of guitars and drums throughout, gently holding the rock kids' hands and showing them the disco lights. Most of the remixes included are pretty stellar, with the producers (Freddie Prinze Jr.) drawing out the hidden, allthat rhythmic beauty of wallflowers (Rachel Leigh Cook), like tracks from the Rakes and the Kills. Cut Copy and Phones, each of whom revise two tracks here, both have the uncanny Midaslike ability to make everything they touch sound like Duran Duran, a worthy demonstration for any and all reenactors of the early 80s. The effect is powerful enough to help Midnight Jugganauts overcome their disastrous band name on Cut Copy's retooling of \"45 & Rising\", good enough to bring Bloc Party's \"Banquet\" to the kind of limbsakimbo fervor their album only fleetingly reached. However, a mix is more than just the sum of its component parts, and, surprisingly for the label that first brought us the Avalanches, this facet is where Modular falls behind its competition. With its extremely uniform tracklisting (\"we have both kinds of music: discopunk and dancepunk!\") the opportunity is there for some AP collaging, but transitions throughout the mix are largely of the fadein/fadeout variety. Songs start to bleed together more convincingly by the mix's latter half when housier Mylo and Jagz Kooner remixes pop up, but intriguingonpaper transitions like the Fiery Furnaces' \"Single Again\" into Tom Vek sound disappointingly like nothing a plugin couldn't handle. Especially galling is the presence of the Killers' \"Mr. Brightside\", not out of some \"what is this mainstream bullshit doing here?!?\" kneejerk tantrum, but because it's not moree integrated into the mix. Surely the track could've been put to better use than sitting isolated at the end of the album, looking suspiciously like mere shrinkwrap sticker bait; as the best top 40 single to come out of the new new wave thus far and with a quite good Jacques Lu Cont remix that could have been included it deserves better. Underdogs know they can't pull off the big upset by playing it safe, and the Killers' quarantine is just the kind of move that dooms Leave Them All Behind to the second division. In the final tally, Diplo and Annie's mixes sport too much more diversity in their selections and much more creativity in presentation, whereas the narrow focus of a genre snapshot like Leave Them All Behind almost necessarily handcuffs the final product. So, sorry Modular, no Øye Award for you this year, but take heart: It's an honor just to be nominated. "}