{"label":" Bloodshot","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2085/homepage_large.83ac93d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"For a Decade of Sin: 11 Years of Bloodshot Records","text":" Maybe it makes sense on the business end, but from this critical perspective, For a Decade of Sin: 11 Years of Bloodshot Records seems a little strange: To celebrate a decade of existence and 125 releases, the Chicago label has released a twodisc compilation featuring numerous acts from other rosters. That's like putting ringers on your company softball team you're just admitting that no one in your office can connect bat with ball. But I doubt the compilers were thinking that way when they put together this 42song tracklist; on the contrary, their aim is to show how the Bloodshot aesthetic has spread beyond the label's modest stable of artists into the wider indie realm. However, For a Decade of Sin works on a much smaller scale; it's not so concerned with the larger state of the field as much as the confines of altcountry, a genre it didn't create but helped rear. This compilation doesn't present a unified Bloodshot aesthetic because there is no such thing: the songs show just how wide ranging altcountry can be, and the artists sound very different, despite grazing the same pastureland between country and rock, punk and a little bluegrass. So many cattle, so many different brands. Some of these artists take a direct route and solder country sounds onto rock momentum. The results can be amazing or not. Bobby Bare Jr.'s \"Ocean Size\" gets by on the singer's unpretentious charm and vast longing, and Catfish Haven's catchy \"Tell Me\" heralds their Secretly Canadian debut next year, but the Deadstring Bothers' \"Where Are All My Friends?\" is weepy and selfabsorbed and \"Harridan of Yore\" by Graham Parker & the Figgs just sounds like local Dylan. Other artists take a different tack and pick up where country tradition left off, reviving it faithfully or with an ear for how it never was. While dramatically different, Sally Timms' dusky version of \"Tumbling Tumbleweeds\" and Wayne Hancock and Hank Williams III's tear through \"Juke Joint Jumping\" sound like they could have been recorded in any of the previous four decades. Unfortunately, artists like Scott H. Biram, 16 Horsepower, and Nine Pound Hammer take one or two aspects from whichever tradition and exaggerate them to cartoonish extremes, but these eminently skippable tracks are partially redeemed by Mary Lou Lord, Cordero, the Court and Spark, Crooked Fingers, and Richard Buckner, whose sound is so natural and unfussy as to have very little obvious regard for any particular strain of influence. Covers abound on For a Decade of Sin, showing a range of influences both old and new. Dollar Store turn in a limp retread of the Soft Boys' \"I Wanna Destroy You\" and Porter Hall TN do Jim Carroll's \"People Who Died\" note for obvious note. But My Morning Jacket's version of \"Behind That Locked Door\" possesses a sad gracefulness, and the Sadies help Andre Williams recover his classic \"Shake a Tail Feather\". The collection's best track cover or otherwise is courtesy of Milton Mapes, who finds a gem in the Cowboy Junkies lament \"Now I Know\".  All this variety suggests that Bloodshot is doing something right. It has made a name for itself in a niche market while at the same time proving that niche isn't so small. But what makes for a successful label doesn't always produce a good compilation. For a Decade of Sin is full of ups and downs and even a few sideways, and so lacks transitions and fluid sequencing. You'll probably listen to the whole thing all the way through only once or twice; after that, you'll most likely burn your favorite 10 to your iPod 15 if you're a real fan. Only about half of those songs will be Bloodshot recording artists. "}