{"label":" Impulse!","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2087/homepage_large.78f7ec08.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Impulsive!","text":" Impulse! Records had been defunct for more than a quarter century. It's back now, resurrected by Verve as a reissue hearth and a home for legacy acts like Alice Coltrane. It's a shell of the free jazz behemoth it used to be. More like a vanity project really, for compilations like this, with remixes from nouveauchic producers and beatsmiths. Reverential stuff, to be sure, but it's all sort of onenote. Which is the opposite of its original incarnation actually, a place where Pharoah Sanders and Albert Ayler and most famously John Coltrane recorded abstract, crunching jazz music. Impulsive! now exists as a way for avant glitchhop Derridajackers like Prefuse 73 to pay homage. Which is fine. It should be paid. Only problem is there's no improving, or even expanding on something like Mingus' \"II B.S.\" It's seminal, flittering around that stiffloose bass line. Some people use the word \"groove\" improperly. \"II B.S.\" still grooooooves. One of the biggest coups on Impulsive is the presence of RZA dropping his remix/reimagining/reclunking of \"II B.S.\" A nice sentiment from a guy who knows a bit about flittering bass lines, but it's inconsistent and awkwardly chopped up. Remixing a song like \"II B.S.\" is dangerous enough; rushing through it is unfortunate. SaRa Creative Partners take George Russell and his darting horns on \"A Helluva Town\" and make them sound more like Arthur Russell on crank. There's a blitzkrieg going on with the busybody doubletime drums and it's easy to take at first. They've at least made it a new song, keeping the original sense of structure. But it's still just a deconstructionist ripoff. There's successful stuff here, too. Germany's Boozoo Bajou lets Sandersâ startlingly pretty \"Astral Traveling\" breathe a bit under some island rhythms before taking it out to the park and dancing all over the melody with overpowering percussion. DJ Dolores inherits the freewheeling grace of Chico O'Farrill and Clark Terry's \"Spanish Rice\" and gives it a glidethenstomp rhythm. It's incredible sidewalk music. As in, \"Move I have the street power.\" Prefuse does a pretty good job with Gabor Szabo's \"Mizrab\", one of the few guitarbased songs on the comp. By the time Scott Herren's done with it though, it resembles what Surrounded by Silence needed to sound like: tuneful with squealing overtones, not vice versa. Blackalicious' Chief XCel and Kid Koala drop veneration, too, making what amounts to the exact remix you'd expect from these two, highlighted by the power of its drum sound. Rather than the pacesetter they act as on Archie Shepp's \"Attica Blues\", XCel bumps the drums way up, skittering the pounding everywhichwaybutloose. Koala works in the opposite vein on \"Bamboo Flute Blues\", splicing and looping endlessly, using that unmistakable turntable wobble he's known for. Except it makes me want to hear Kid Koala, not Yusef Lateef, which defeats the purpose, we think. All said, Impulsive! takes the wornout remix philosophy that damn near killed Motown and The Isley Brothers for me, and flips jazz records, some classic, and some lesser known. I fully expect some chucklehead to try to rework A Love Supreme or Mingus Ah Um soon. That is when I will declare war. "}