{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2090/homepage_large.43f07c0e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"1980 Forward: 25 Years of 4AD","text":" This could be the bestsequenced label compilation I've ever seen, and not just in the usual mixtape ebbandflow sense. No, the order of these tracks is practically a form of rhetoric, and it has a pretty convincing argument to make concerning 4AD's whole status as a label. No kidding: The 18track listing for this disc had me all primed to pick on it, but something about listening through the songs, in order, makes that a whole lot harder. The issue is that this London imprint has two sides. On one hand, it's the prime indieworld example of how a label can maintain a cohesive, reliable aesthetic. Through the end of the 1980s, 4AD's style was the sort you'd expect from a weirdedout college punk who majored in Art History so she could stare at gory Renaissance paintings and Baroque cathedrals: a mix of operatic singers, classicist ambience, gothic postpunk, hallucinatory New England collegerock, and above all great dreamy spangles of arty pop. Bauhaus, Cocteau Twins, Throwing Muses, Dead Can Dance; the feel was coherent and totally singular, from the music to Vaughn Oliver's signature album covers which looked, alternately, like Modernist journals and microscopic details from preRaphaelite oil paintings. And all of it could culminate in label head Ivo WattsRussell's studio project, This Mortal Coil, which made a bona fide cover band of his particular tastes for minimalist arrangements, fancy digital keyboard pads, and the female voice. On the other hand, 4AD is not some kind of cult. The label's catalog packs any number of releases that are remembered completely independent of any 4AD \"sound\" from the Pixies to \"Pump up the Volume\", and from there to a modernday roster featuring the Mountain Goats and TV on the Radio. So when you hit that 25th anniversary and sit down to put together a retrospective, you have a decision to make: How much is this label dead, and how much is it alive? How much are you going to canonize the stuff that defined your aesthetic, and how much are you going to throw together a label sampler for the acts you're repping now? Is this going to be a treat for devotees who really want some Dif Juz and Clan of Xymox obscurities dug out of the vaults, or is it going to be a grabbag of singles from popular backstock like Blonde Redhead and the Breeders?  And that's where the sequencing comes in. The answer probably leans toward \"the latter,\" but something about the order of these songs makes the question feel meainingless. If there's a rhetoric built into that song order, the message is simple that every 4AD signing, from 1980 to the present, is part of the same aesthetic. That the Mountain Goats are as much a part of 4AD's \"style\" as Lush ever were. That 4AD has maybe spent the past 25 years making one giant mixtape for us, of which this is just one version.  None of that stops this from being much more of a label sampler than 4AD fans will care for. But just look at the first four tracks here. It kicks off with a brief chant from one of the label's most idiosyncratic projects Le Mystère des Voix Bulgares, recordings of a Bulgarian women's choir whose voices work in such close, neardissonant Slavic intervals that the vibrations themselves seem to make you shiver. From there it's a short leap into the flowery bursts and fluttering vocals of Cocteau Twins, the band that did the most to turn 4AD style into a major force. And then: TV on the Radio's \"New Health Rock\", whipping up doublepart falsetto rock chants in a way that suddenly seems like the natural next step. And then: The Birthday Party's grinding postpunk noir, completely of a piece with everything you just heard.  It all flows like this, thanks in part to careful representation of each artist not always the bestremembered track, but the one that fits the scheme. The minimalist dreampop of His Name Is Alive leads into the fluffier dreampop of Pale Saints. A recent acoustic Breeders track leads off to Throwing Muses and the Pixies, covering all three poles of the spindly Massachusetts indierock this label nurtured into fame. A fullband Mountain Goats chug leads naturally into Tarnation's arty oldcountry, and the goofy Gregorian newgoth of Dead Can Dance leads naturally into a spooky, minimalist album track from Blonde Redhead. Mojave 3, Belly, Red House Painters scanning down the list of artists makes it look like an advertisement for what's in stock at the warehouse, but listening through the offbeat song selections and their intuitive sonic links makes it sound like a mixtape of the best and most personal sort.  All of which means that I should never have called this a retrospective, right? Anyone looking for a snapshot of 4AD's signature sound would have better luck with 1987's Lonely Is an Eyesore. Anyone looking to see what 4AD is releasing now won't exactly need to hear Cocteau Twins and Wolfgang Press on this disc. Anyone looking for a real retrospective will just have to wait, one supposes, until 4AD closes up shop and does the obligatory box all the highlights, from This Mortal Coil's soundtrackstaple version of \"Song to the Siren\" to \"Pump up the Volume\" to, umm, \"I Melt With You\". For now, you are indeed looking at a form of that convenient salespitch, the label sampler. Only this ranks as a very wellmade one: One guy picking his way through some of the songs he likes and has liked, and organizing them, mixtape style, in a way that expresses his tastes and making a decent case for those tastes as a growing, changing, ongoing concern, instead of some period piece from 15 years back. "}