{"label":" Trojan","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2091/homepage_large.89d2aaa3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Trojan Dub Rarities","text":" In case you glossed over the title: If this is the first time you've cuffed your pants to dip a toe into the waters of dub, this might not be the record for you. At 50 songs and three discs, Trojan Dub Rarities is an embarrassment of riches. It's also dense as hell. Anything that says \"rarities\" in the title is probably not for the first timer, the casual fan, the curious dilettante. For anyone born after 1975, especially the average Pitchfork reader (and writer), hearing dub for the first time can be disorienting. Dub has been absorbed into popular music in so many ways that have little to do with the Jamaican music of the '70s that bears the same name German techno, Fugazi basslines, overblown echo on shoegaze remixes. The first true dub record I bought (a King Tubby collection on Blood & Fire) left me with a bizarrely redundant revelation: hey, this is reggae. Psychedelically saturated and studioaddled reggae, yes. Everything I had been told about dub was true: Here was the alpha and the omega of all the production wizardry that followed. But it still sounded like, you know, reggae. A month or so later I got the Arkology box, a set of Lee Perry's Islandera recordings, and was definitely Hooked on Dub. But it was even more songbased than Tubby. What gives? A Simon Reynolds article in The Wire later that year conveniently articulated a lot of what I had been wondering after my initial dub experiences. Reynolds argued that, in the '90s, all the instrumental, studio, and electronic music (jungle, Basic Channel, all that \"macro dub infection\" stuff that seems as cutely dated to the '90s as grunge now) that picked up from dub left out a few important facts. Like that dubs were versions of singers singing popular songs. (Such as the gorgeous \"Daughter Dub\" on Dub Rarities by the silkenthroated Cornell Campbell.) Or that dub was religious and political music. (Both of which are all over Dub Rarities, quoting ital dietary laws and bigging up Marcus Garvey.) So if you don't have something of an interest in reggae, dub may not be for you. But let's say you do, or you're at least curious enough to have read this far. Should you pick up Trojan Dub Rarities? Yes and no. Yes, because it contains music like a shimmering version of the \"Police and Thieves\" rhythm (\"Babylon Police Thief Dub\" by Perry and Augustus Pablo) that saturates the jolly skank of the original with gold dust. Or the stern sermonizing of \"Revolution Version\" by Tapper Zukie and the Musical Intimidators, an island cousin to the Last Poets' \"Niggers Are Scared of Revolution\". And then there are the oneoff oddities that can delight even seasoned dubwatchers, like the Observers' \"Iron Fist,\" which sounds wholly synthesized, coming off like Aphex circa I Care Because You Do or the queer, sour vignettes on the Vitalic album. No, because as I said before, it's all a bit much. One thing people seem afraid to say is that a lot of dub sounds, well, samey. Given the voraciousness of the daytoday 45 consumer in 1970s Jamaica, with each single coming with a dub version on the Bside, there was a lot of rhythm and effects recycling going on. Not all of these Rarities are mindblowing finds from the vault. Spread across the 50 tracks there are any number of perfunctory gallumphing rhythms and liberally applied echoplex. Calling something \"Tedious Dub\" might be an easy opening for a joke, but... Anyway, if you're enough of a dub fanatic to want this, you don't really need my recommendation or my jackleg history lesson. Like all of Trojan's 3xCD mini box sets, Dub Rarities retails for something like two sawbucks, which is beyond reasonable even with the padding. If you're a virgin, dub is one of those genres where you can't go wrong picking up one of the established classics of the genre as your firstseek out Augustus Pablo's King Tubby Meets Rockers Uptown or Perry's Super Ape or Tubby's Dub Like Crazy. And if you like what you hear, you're in for a treat, because suddenly there's a whole world of echo to explore. "}