{"label":" Delay 68","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2097/homepage_large.24684635.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Prog Is Not a Four Letter Word","text":" All these years removed from the scene of the \"crimes,\" there is still no shortage of bigotry against music at one time considered to be the future of rock. In the late 60s and early 70s, progressive rock was not only critically acclaimed, buy actually cool, at least to hipster intelligentsia. It was still just a part of psychedelia, acid rock, or any number of things not stigmatized by people who might later look back in anger in fact, much like how Animal Collective, Liars, and Deerhoof are somehow \"indie rock\" today even when they might just as well represent new genres altogether. Yet, it didn't take very long for conventional opinions to change perhaps only two or three years when many listeners and critics jumped ship for more fashionable seas (and probably not coincidentally, ones that would ultimately run ashore at punk and New Wave at the end of the 70s). Why did this happen? I have my theories: many prog bands left \"the people\" behind in some respects, opting for longer songs, outer experiments, and flashier performances; the apparent demise of the dreams of the 60s meant that utopian ideals of enhanced consciousness and experimentation fell by the wayside to make room for suitably rawer, rougher sounds; progressive politics of the time (and to this day) dictated that social and economic elitism disabled a big chunk of society, so when you're playing music that takes 10 years of education and a healthy bank of equipment to produce, it doesn't exactly scream \"populism.\" Of course, even in the best, most well meaning scenarios, a ton of great music got brushed over. Luckily, a lot of this stuff is being rediscovered today, as digital music communities and the information silo of the internet are helping right a generation of wrongs. British DJ, producer, Twisted Nerve label boss, and rabid vinyl collector Andy Votel compiled Prog Is Not a Four Letter Word from what must be a massive collection, and makes clear what many a diehard prog fan will tell you: If you think you know all the faces of this music, you've got another thing coming. Sampling bands from all over the world, his set makes a pretty good case for progressive rock's diversity, as well as its ample potential for DJs looking for new breaks. The music here almost completely eschews flashy solos and epic songsuites in favor of a very psychedelic flavor of prog, with jazzy touches and an almost melancholy aftertaste. As with his Folk Is Not a Four Letter Word comp, I suspect he had an agenda in mind of challenging assumptions about the genre, and for better or worse, he succeeds. Italian band Picchio Dal Pozzo leads off the set with \"Merta\", and makes immediately clear that this will not be a wizard's cap runthrough. Forming a drone out of bells, acoustic guitar and a moaning synth line that wouldn't sound out of place in a Lindstrom track, the song is gentle and mystical, like opening the door to a wild, yellow garden. Likewise, French composer (and Serge Gainsbourg associate) Jean Claude Vannier's \"Le Roi Des Mouches\" uses an Easterntinged orchestral arrangement, peppered with hand drums and acoustic guitars to make exquisite chill music, the kind that would go perfectly with just a touch of incense and something a bit less legal. English proggers Egg (featuring players who would go on to form signature Canterbury bands Gong and National Health) drop a version of J.S. Bach's \"Fugue In D Minor\" that recalls not the warmed over ELPstyle classical gas, but the pastoral psych of \"A Whiter Shade of Pale\". Bands like Germany's Embryo and French artist Phillipe Besombes demonstrate similarly subtle takes on jazz fusion. Of course, as a sometime proggeek myself, there are choices I'd have made differently. Ultraobscure Welsh act Bran play quaint art song on \"Breuddwyd\", but why choose this when there are so many better examples of chamber classical influences in prog (e.g., Renaissance, Slapp Happy, even Magma)? Also, songs by San Ui Lim and Czerwone Gitary barely seem like prog to my ears, rather closer to subNuggets folk rock and something way too close to a Foghat jam, respectively. In truth, there is an aspect of cratedigging here at the occasional expense of truly incredible tunes; it's a shame, because slightly better known (and frankly much better) bands like Lard Free, Supersister, Moving Gelatine Plates, early Soft Machine, Brainticket, and Plastic People of the Universe would have fit in perfectly. Still, it's difficult to nitpick much. Prog Is Not a Four Letter Word is nice on its own terms, and I'm all for opening doors to a ripe canon of music unjustly maligned. Seek and you shall find: There's more good music out there than jaded hipsters and critics might let on. "}