{"label":" Durtro / Jnana","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2098/homepage_large.4af12b8b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Not Alone","text":" Benefit albums tend to bring out the worst in music critics, prompting petty reviews in which we take labels to task for disseminating tawdry Bside packages under the guise of altruism. Either that, or we cast aside our grievances and compulsorily urge listeners to buy CDs for the children's sake, to save the rainforest, cure cancer, remember the 80s, whatever. Jnana's certainly not cutting me any slack on their criticbaiting Not Alone compilation: the dilemma has been compounded by five CDs, hordes of adorable outrock virtuosos, deluxe packaging, and an eminently worthy cause (the African HIV/AIDS pandemic). Jesus, they even threw in a track by a Pitchfork contributor and pledged all the proceeds to Doctors Without Borders. This box is bulletproof. To lambaste it would be to insult human decency, and I refuse to be that one cynic who gave a 2.3 to the charitable savingAfrica set. Curators Mark Logan and David Tibet (Current 93) assembled a sterling cast of freaks, misanthropes, and free spirits: industrial deviants (Coil, Nurse With Wound), New Weird Americans (Fursaxa, Six Organs of Admittance), Japanese noise gods (Keiji Haino, Ghost), folk legends (Linda Perhacs, Pearls Before Swine), tapeloop loons (William Basinski) and everyone ever affiliated with Michael Gira. Oh, what the hell, let's also throw in Allen Ginsberg and Teenage Fanclub. The track organization leaves something to be desired, but there's a decisive novelty to owning a disc that features both folkrevivalist Dolly Collins and bibleshredder Aube. Strangely, there's also a smattering of mundane Canadian bar bands. Logan \"sequenced this set with the hope that folks will listen to each disc in its entirety,\" and one must stoically withstand the brief and goofy mediocrity on each disc. Nevertheless, there's at least three hours of quality material here, and the set mostly includes original and rare compositions. For a charity comp, the highlights are numerous and stubbornly experimental: On the introductory track, irr.app.(ext.) sets the standard with singular syntheses of finespun strums, Gregorian drones, wooden clocks, and PanAsian woodwinds. Mirror crafts glowing sinusoids, Eric Lanzillotta melts blackice dub, and Tom Recchion spins reverberant neon vinyl over dustcovered choirs. Personal favorites include the Hafler Trio's elegant noise, Charlemagne Palestine's withering gales, and Cyclobe's enticing intersection of drilled flatulence and photon pong. But thoughts begin to wander somewhere around Hour 3, when the Bricoleur introduces his wind gyrations on \"Prah Pip Tah\". It's not a particularly dull piece, but the mind can only take outerworld spacescapes for so long. The more beatbased electronic music is also rather tepid (see Howie B.'s rote Bgrade Blade noir or Edward KaSpel's confusing mix of glam vocals and 56k dialup.) Countering this series of bleeps and foundsound scratches is the awkward camp of former Belle & Sebastian member Isobel Campbell, who adds more effete absurdity to \"The Beat Goes On\", and Sundial, who imagine that playing a garage version of the Osmond Brothers' \"Crazy Horses\" is the apex of revolutionary craftsmanship. Perhaps they feel obligated to propound pop schmaltz in the spirit of benefit albums. On the other end of the spectrum, Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy's truly bizarre \"Song for Doctors Without Borders\", a sort of anti\"We Are the World\", unites elements of the Bible and Faust. The other acoustic performers seem to take sides in the battle between psychfolk classics and protracted pseudogrunge. But it's easy to simply ignore the latter in favor of Richard Buckner's ironclad rasp or Six Organs' solarflare opium den.  The sheer variety of songs is staggering, from Jarboe's belabored breathing to L's effortless Polynesian pixie dust. Even Ginsberg's ludicrous harmoniumandviola Blake recitation seems pertinent to the proceedings. Simply put, Not Alone compiles a tremendous wealth of magnificent material, and there's something charming about listening to a doeeyed charity endeavor by such infamous pessimists as Nurse With Wound and Current 93. Still, between the erratic sequencing and the handful of mediocrities, Not Alone often sounds like an assortment of free CDs from The Wire, albeit with marginally better quality control.  "}