{"label":" Memphis Industries","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2099/homepage_large.777de49a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Memphis Family Album: Music From Memphis Industries Vol. 2","text":" Once upon a time, labels meant something or at least that's what the old folks tell me. I never belonged to a singles club, or bought a record based purely on the logo on the spine, but I vaguely recall noticing somewhere in the mid90s that Matador's \"all wrongs reversed\" slogan kept turning up on my discs, and that Merge, SST, and Sub Pop had a certain cachet that went beyond inventory lists. But then, the internet happened, and labels are now threatened to become as marginalized as cover art, liner notes, and those goddamn sticky binders that prevent me from quickly cracking into CDs. All of which makes the label comp a dinosaurbyassociation, an allstar sampler of an outfit's roster in an age where music is often taken รก la carte. Still, for a new label trying to craft a distinct identity, this kind of manifesto might not be a futile maneuver even if it will inevitably be stripped for parts as soon as it hits the filesharing bazaars. It's the old baitandswitch: Hook the listeners in with your big acts, and then deposit a bunch of the nonames in their memory banks before they know what hit 'em. 2006 finds Memphis Industries in a perfect position to execute this trick play, having blessed us with the chimera sounds of the Go! Team and locked up British distribution for Swedish psych faves Dungen. Two tracks from each are the headliners here; nothing we haven't heard before, but \"Friendship Update\" and \"Ta Det Lungt\" still have yet to wear out. As banner holders for Memphis Industries, however, the two bands don't have much of a sound in common, and thus don't suggest any obvious hints about the label's master plan. The answer to the riddle is that there is no answer, at least not in any sense more satisfying than declaring that the artists of indie label Memphis Industries sound exactly as amorphous and vague as the term \"indie\" has become in 2006. The bands that are given the biggest push here, with the twotrack treatment, fan out over the breadth of the indiescape: Field Music's Shinspopping, Absentee's EdwynCollinsfrontstheStrokes fantasy, Blue States clinging to the Great PostRock Hope. Maybe I just prefer a tease, but the oneshot artists on the compilation stand out in the CMJmedian crowd. The Squire of Somerton may read like someone really into renaissance fairs, but his song \"The Band\" works as a refreshingly bizarre piece of chamberpop. The Pipettes, meanwhile, have the bandname deadest on capturing my scientist heart, and their effortless neogirlgroup sound seals the deal. In fact, there's nary a sour track on the compilation, with no worse crime than unoriginality ever perpetrated. But with such farflung diversity, the collection also fails to accomplish the goal of making Memphis Industries a brand with meaning, deepening their profile beyond its keywords: \"British\" and \"independent.\" Sure, 12 bands in the vein of the Go! Team would probably produce a much less consistent offering, but if nothing else, it would represent a cohesive mission statement worthy of the kind of unflinching loyalty record geeks once gloried in. As it is, The Memphis Family Album is ultimately as faceless as its name, leaving the label without a personality to cut through the digital anonymity. "}