{"label":" Kemado","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2100/homepage_large.74ab6920.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Invaders","text":" Trick question: Is Invaders, as a nearly flawless and numbingly coherent compilation of contemporary heavy rock, the sound of the lid coming off the coffin, or the rap of it being nailed down? The canon wields a heavy hammer strike Invaders with it, and you can cross metal shows off your list of things to do this summer and then again, so do 18 guitardragging loud rock bands. Bonus question: Would you rather be Flex Your Head, or 20 Years of Dischord? Most days, I figure Invaders for the former. This peak comes after a long climb of metalists, well, playing metal: The Fucking Champs slogging since 1994, Torche dudes pounding in their last band Floor since 1993, Big Business predecessors Karp around since 1995, High on Fire's Matt Pike and his former band Sleep since 1991, Witch drummer J Mascis all the way back to Deep Wound, formed in 1982. Best, perhaps, is the good this transformation's done for those who wanted to be about to rock but were having trouble figuring out how. Try Saviours, who with \"Circle of Servants Bodies\", finally lay down the emotionalhardcore singsongy plowshears of their former band Yaphet Kotto for the earthier salt of tom fills and big sustain, topped off with amalgamated Dio and Maiden solorun riffs. From the sound of it, these dudes were just happy to find out that metal existed; now they swing with all the West Coast energy Yaphet Kotto had promised and then eventually bled out. Big Business, for their part, go from a murderously tight Karp to an even tighter clenched twopiece bass and drums rolling grenade: They're as locked up as all the years they played together would dictate, yet still manage to swim in the wake of their own songs. \"As the Day Was Dawning\" moves so deliberately it seems to have only halfdead listeners in mind, which, when corpsepaint catches on again, will no doubt be appropriate. Pelican, High on Fire, and Dungen all do credible versions of Pelican, High on Fire, and Dungen, but let's talk the high skinny cutoff jeanjacket nerd quotient: Black Mountain's Doors organs and Wanna Buy a Bridge sax jamming, Danava's proggy/techy almost nowave take on metal, constantly twitching and sniffing and scratching over shifty bass and \"Osbournes\" Ozzy vocals, and Witch, who sound simultaneously gigantic and like their lead singer has a highschool beatings derived speech impediment. Kemado's warelephant in the room, mining such an alreadyalive genre (Black Sabbath, Motörhead, Celtic Frost, etc., all still around, at least sort of), is the ironic carpetbagger factor: Are these bands griming up metal's happy rainbow like so much Bushwick realestate? Here, Invaders is saved by its own hyperloserdom: even the nextbigthings on here, such as The Sword, never break the frame it's all D&D;, all the time and others, such as The Champs and their ilk, essentially share a niche with Steve Vai or Yngwie Malmsteen. Just don't listen when they foist this stuff on ya: \"The unenlightened epoch of hairlessness became a fleeting memory as their secondhand sweaters grew holes, unraveled, and were fashioned into gnarled headbands.\" If you're not now, you never were. "}