{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2102/homepage_large.908cadee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"DJ-Kicks: The Exclusives","text":" Pitched somewhere between the dancefloor loyalty and DJ skillz fetishism of the Fabric mixes and the slapdash, cultofpersonality approach of the latenight homelistening Back to Mine series, DJKicks has become an institution whose ubiquity is almost impossible to resent no other equivalent dance music franchise has so consistently and thoroughly exploited the possibilities inherent to the DJ mix. Which makes the act of rounding up exclusive tracks from the various volumes onto a single unmixed CD a perverse exercise in missingthepoint. And yet, it's also long overdue: Deliberately spotlighting DJ/artist polymaths since its early days, the series has stipulated that participating selectors contribute at least one exclusive song to their mix. Given its brevity, this singledisc release could afford to be more comprehensive: In fact, in some senses the selection appears downright revisionist. Repressing the existence of the more intensely physical technoflavored mixes from the mid90s, The Exclusives belatedly includes Carl Craig's \"DJKICKS\", a marvelous slice of disquieting techdrama, as a bonus track of course, it's the album's highlight. But perhaps !K7 simply recognizes on which side its bread is buttered: whereas the Kruder & Dorfmeister and Thievery Corporation volumes are legitimately hailed as stoner classics, excellent early mixes from Stacey Pullen and Claude Young languish in technopurist obscurity. Consequently, The Exclusives offers a survey of the imprint's middleperiod focus on triphop and downbeat, also swerving through xFCjazz as well as modish recent ventures into electroclash and nouveau disco. Inevitably, the torpid, headnodding grooves which open the disc now seem a bit myopic and quaint, but byandlarge the contributors were either the best in their field or rose to the challenge even DJ Cam's inferior noirbynumbers \"Bronx Theme\" is more enjoyable than it has any right to be. And it's nice, too, how the compilation's chronological tracklisting traces the increasingly diverse yet brief late1990s triphop cul de sac fading to a distant memory as the disc winds to a close. The series has always cannily favored selectors whose aesthetic is eclectic but distinctive, so it's interesting to note how each artist's contribution provides a skeleton key to his entire mix: Kruder & Dorfmeister's smoky and shuffling \"Black Baby\" is archetypal K&D;, while the rolling piano and plaintive vocals on Erlend Øye's \"The Black Keys Work\" handily compresses his volume's explorations of bittersweet pop and halcyon European house. Tracks by artists such as Viktor Duplaix (lush xFCjazz r&b;), Chicken Lips (wonky vocal disco), and the Glimmers (boiling psychhouse) are all likewise simultaneously topnotch and revealing. Only Tiga and Annie (ironically, two artists more feted for their compositions than their mixing skills) fail to do their own mixes or general oeuvres justice with their slightly gimmicky contributions. Of course, The Exclusives isn't really a substitute for the mixes themselves, and the best DJ Kicks compilations (hint: Playgroup) remain more captivating by dint of their incongruous organic unity and largesse of vision, the inspired games of sonic jointhedots that the mix format allows. Perhaps this will appeal most to people at either ends of the spectrum: completists and dilettantes daunted by the voluminous DJ Kicks backcatalogue. But beyond these pragmatic functions, The Exclusives is most interesting for providing a sort of metanarrative to a series which has privileged itself for being at the forefront of hitech easy listening: a panorama landscape shot of ripples crossing the surface of cool. "}