{"label":" Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2119/homepage_large.f1c9daf8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Daft Punk / Leiji Matsumoto","title":"Interstella 5555: The 5tory of the 5ecret 5tar 5ystem","text":" Nearly three years later, Daft Punk's 2001 gem Discovery, for better or worse, refuses to fade away. For worse, the atrocious Discovery remix project, Daft Club, found the release it never should have earlier this year, and instantly became the frontrunner for 2004's most dire audio abortion. For (much) better, the French duo debuted Interstella 5555: The 5tory of the 5ecret 5tar 5ystem at the inCannes film festival Quinzaine des Realisateurs in May 2003. The duo had worked for two years on the film with Leiji Matsumoto, one of Japan's most celebrated manga and anime artists, and the result was an animated musical with Discovery as its score, which mixed \"sciencefiction with the decadent world of showbusiness, limousines with spaceships.\" It was finally released on DVD in December.Like Pink Floyd's The Wall, the music for Discovery and the storyline for Interstella 5555 were conceived simultaneously. The videos for \"One More Time\" and \"Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger\", which had both seen a fair bit of MTV rotation around the time of the album's release, were not simply clever vignettes for the songs, nor was Discovery purely a film score in fact, Interstella 5555 makes clear the degree to which each influenced the shape of the other. Ultimately, Daft Punk intended Discovery to be heard in the context of Interstella 5555, and it's no wonder: Matsumoto's animation enlivens some of the less formidable tracks, and the details of scenes in Interstella 5555 often are inspired by the music itself.The project was an ambitious undertaking for both Daft Punk and Matsumoto, who were forced to communicate through a bilingual friend. For the uninformed, it's worth noting how enormous an accomplishment it was that Daft Punk were able to enlist Matsumoto. The 66 yearold, who was awarded the Japanese Cultural Award in 2001 for outstanding national contribution (Matsumoto is responsible for 25 years of film productions, including Galaxy Express 999, Arcadia, and Star Blazers, which, after Akira, are some of the country's most revered anime), legitimates Interstella 5555 as a serious anime film, replete with subtle intertextual references to other series and Matsumoto's own work. Each of Interstella 5555's character betrays the different styles of animation Matsumoto has taken up throughout his career, and Stella, the female guitarist and lead heroine, is practically a scarless Emeraldas.Scenes follow the sequence and corresponding moods of Discovery's original tracklist; the opening concert scene of \"One More Time\" boasts lush Jemrock colors and, more interestingly, what seems to be Matsumoto's first bout with animating characters who speak English. The words themselves do not correspond perfectly to how they're mouthed, lending a certain vulnerability to the characters that stays with them throughout the musical. Matsumoto does not have any of the Crescendolls speak thereafter, and since the track sequencing has more or less been determined, the burden is on him to communicate the story entirely through his animation and its interaction with the music as it changes tenor. His facility reveals itself right away, as the band is kidnapped to the moody second track Aerodynamic, and perhaps most perfectly during \"Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger\", as the band is systematically dismantled, reprocessed, and spit out onto Earth as The Crescendolls. For the song, Matsumoto chooses to highlight the simple mechanics of the factory machines operating on the band, offering a formidable interpretation of the song's robotic lyrics and commercial implications.The record industry and its stereotypical abuse of the artist comprises the main topos of Interstella 5555, and indeed the main antagonist, Earl de Darkwood, is a perfectly stodgy, heartless profiteer who cares less about supporting music and artists than racking up enough gold album awards to so the plot goes conquer the entire universe. That said, it would be rash to accuse Daft Punk of biting the Virgin hand that feeds it, or to say that Interstella 5555 exists purely as a careful subversion of the record industry's supposedly shifty practices. If anything, the film is a sensational execution of a relevant stereotype; Daft Punk and Leiji Matsumoto are less concerned with making some cultural critique than they are with telling a story.How well Matsumoto is able to overcome the lack of dialogue is truly fascinating, as he instead relies on his ability to craft extremely nuanced body language for the characters. The Crescendolls' entire career on Earth happens without a smile; Stella is always on the verge of tears; when Darkwood forces Stella to shake the hand of a fan (she is reluctant, of course, since is being forced to make physical contact with an entirely alien species), the frame becomes still, and she stares at her own hand in utter despair. Countless moments find Matsumoto exhibiting levels of artistic consideration on par with some of his best work. Moreover, his delicate use of humor keeps the film from a tempting degree of melodrama that Matsumoto knows when to restrain and when to let loose. Put simply, Interstella 5555 is both fine anime and the ultimate context for its morethansoundtrack Discovery. Taken as a whole, it's the fantastic culmination of years of artistic dedication. "}