{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2137/homepage_large.2d67b283.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"The Damned","title":"Neat Neat Neat: The Alternative Anthology","text":" I became acquainted with the quoteunquotefirst band of British punk first to release a single, tour the U.S., etc. in the most decidedly unpunk way possible: selecting the excellent Light at the End of the Tunnel doublealbum anthology merely to fulfill BMG's exacting requisites. For a 13yearold with no concept of the intricacies of gouging consumers on shipping charges, the deal was stellar; the Damned, however, were not not then, anyway. I didn't get the ridiculously theatrical melodrama of \"I Just Can't Be Happy Today\" or the smirking, jovial skewering of the British tourism industry in \"Lovely Money\"; the Damned seemed noisy, insane, and the worst offender they used a keyboard, which, after a decade of all the \"Axel F\" I could handle, was a problem. I had flannel to wear, and I couldn't be bothered. So I listened once and forgot them for a year; when I finally returned, understanding suddenly bloomed from ignorance. If punk ever had an ideal of doing your own thing, breaking the rules, or any of the other liberating clichés it's been reduced to, the Damned embodied that for as long as any band could. They eschewed political poses and antiauthoritarian rants (except to piss off the mob once in a while) and just played whatever the hell they wanted and had some fun doing it. That's the true importance of the Damned, in a way that my retelling of the band's convoluted history could never convey. And maybe that the unexpected spark of life not present in so many other punk artifacts explains why the Damned continue to be relentlessly compiled. Adding the threedisc Neat Neat Neat anthology to an array of live and \"best of\" comps that greatly outnumber the band's seven proper studio recordings (not counting any latterday reunion offal) is a tough sell. Neat Neat Neat fights for table scraps at an already glutted table, but is further hindered by the Damned's own sordid recording history. Because as great and vital as the Damned were, they produced a limited selection of truly unassailable material: the whitehot fireball of Damned Damned Damned and their psychpunk powerhouse Machine Gun Etiquette. The intervening, stagnant Music for Pleasure and their later descent in gothic kitsch leave far less salvageable material. Of all the comps, only the thorough Light at the End of the Tunnel managed to hit the necessary highs while making the band's lesser material stand up by comparison. Rather than include too little and join the multitudes of shallow, uneven alsorans, Neat Neat Neat errs on the side of overkill but simply can't justify its length. Still, credit where it's due: the Sanctuary comp misses none of the Damned's most important moments \"New Rose\", the blistering \"Love Song\" and \"Neat Neat Neat, and the brilliant, cocainefueled shot at the Beatles' \"Help\", to name a few while managing to pack in some extra quality as well. A couple of extra tracks from original lead guitarist Brian James' glory days, like the tongueincheek lament of \"Fan Club\" or \"Born to Kill\", and some lessseen laterperiod gems such as the incomparable arrogance of \"I Think I'm Wonderful\" and \"Melody Lee\" are excellent inclusions. With the inexplicable exception of \"Plan 9 Channel 7\", virtually everything a casual Damned fan needs to hear is included. But oh, they include a lot more than that, sadly. Like the Damned themselves, Neat Neat Neat is guilty of not quitting while it's ahead. Stultifying inclusions like \"Your Eyes\", \"Billy Bad Breaks\", and \"Dozen Girls\" make the LP a chore. The Damned endure, first among equals as the unsung (well, less sung) heroes of British punk, and they do so because unlike those eventually caught in their own rhetoric or tied to stereotype (with their own bondage, no less), the Damned epitomized the mindless, directionless energy that kinda got punk rolling in the first place. Thorough or not, a Damned compilation may be chaotic, uneven, and headscratchingly baffling, but it should never be a chore. "}