{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2139/homepage_large.9e13328a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Kearney","artist":"Damon & Naomi / Kurihara","title":"Song to the Siren: Live","text":" Hi kearney_ryan,You've found a sucker! You've made a sale at Half.com!You have until Tuesday 25 October 05:00 PM EST to confirm this sale. Otherwise, the order will be canceled, which would really be in the buyer's best interest. He obviously didn't read your review of 2000's Damon & Naomi with Ghost, which is the studio basis for the tour album he has just agreed to purchase. In any case, upon confirmation, you are required to ship this order on the next business day, even if you think the buyer is foolish. Please follow the four easy steps below to confirm the order and complete this unfortunate sale.If you have already confirmed this order please disregard this message. If you haven't confirmed this order, you still have time to spare the buyer his hardearned cash. Perhaps remind him of how disappointed you were that Ghost did not figure more prominently in Damon & Naomi with Ghost, that Damon and Naomi, who comprised twothirds of seminal 80s driftrockers Galaxie 500, have been like a sailboat without a sail since venturing off as a twosome, that Ghost was the anchor they needed, but that they never allowed the entrancing folk collective below deck.1) Confirm the OrderTO CONFIRM ALL ITEMS IN THIS ORDER: Simply reply to this email without altering the subject line. Email confirmations are processed automatically. WE ARE NOT ABLE TO READ OR RESPOND TO ANY COMMENTS OR INFORMATION INCLUDED IN YOUR REPLY, SO STOP EMAILING US ABOUT HOW A BUYER SHOULD REALLY KNOW BETTER THAN TO BUY YOUR USED CD'S, WHICH MORE OFTEN THAN NOT ARE ALBUMS YOU PANNED AS A CRITIC FOR PITCHFORKMEDIA.COM.ORDER CONTENTS: 1) Damon & Naomi on tour with Michio Kurihara of Ghost (on guitar)Live in San Sebastian Condition: Very good Quality of music and video: Not so good Price: $4.992) Package the OrderBe sure to package the item correctly. In your heart, you may want to just give the CD away, but remember that just because you didn't like the album doesn't mean the buyer won't either. If he heard Damon and Naomi with Ghost and liked it, then perhaps he may like this live CD as well. Then again, maybe not. After all, the songs here are even thinner than on their airy studio effort. And the bonus DVD video tour diary is boring for all but friends, family and hardcore fans, given the intentionally blurred concert footage and extended closeups of cafeteria mystery meat.Address the package to: Dean Wareham 500 Galaxie Ave Boston MA 021353) Mail the PackageYOU ARE REQUIRED TO MAIL THIS PACKAGE NO LATER THAN THE NEXT BUSINESS DAY FOLLOWING CONFIRMATION. Failure to comply may result in loss of shipping allowance, poor seller rating, or suspension of seller privileges. Complying, on the other hand, may result in a disappointed buyer. He will listen to the gutting of already thin, though decent songs such as \"Judah and the Maccabees\" and \"The Great Wall\". Kurihara's electric contributions sharpen up older Damon & Naomi favorites such as \"Eye of the Storm\" or of 2000's \"I Dreamed of the Caucasus\", but his offerings aren't enough to save the sinking ship.* Shipping Costs: Half.com will reimburse you the cost of shipping the items listed above based upon the Half.com Shipping Policy. You probably wouldn't sell this CD otherwise, would you? An idiot from the audience says it all when he yells, at the end of \"Turn on the Century\", \"I forgot to get high!\" Damon Krukowski replies, \"That's exactly why we wrote that song,\" and he may be joking, but you fear he is not.4) Get Paid!Sellers receiving payments by direct deposit will be paid twice monthly. It seems almost unfair to get paid for something not only that was free, but that you discouraged others from purchasing. But why not? This live effort is a song to the siren, indeed: some of these tracks sound like pleasant, lofty vocal tracks and nothing else. The music is so insignificant at times as to fade entirely from the listener's consciousness, and the lyrical spirituality is as forced as ground animal parts through a sausage maker. Think of the Cliffs Notes version of Homer's Odysseus, or of the Sunday choir at your local Christian church.Nonetheless, thanks for selling your crappy stuff at Half.com. Have a great day!  "}