{"label":" Tooth and Nail","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2147/homepage_large.f7c8ea40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Danielson Famile","title":"A Prayer for Every Hour","text":" If you're like most Americans your height, you probably fornicate more than you'd like to. Next time you need to ditch a spare mate, toss this afflicted opus into your 85CD changer. Your partner will first perceive the swirling goulash creeping from your speakers as a vote of confidence: \"Hey, all right some purposefully obscure sounds! This ain't no Yo La Tengo date! We're committing carnal sins to some rarities!\" But as soon as Daniel Smith unleashes his voice an agitated palsetto that performs spastic cartwheels on the outer rim of aural bearability your guest will take the hint, get spooked and pack up, and your night will be stainfree. Ahhh, but now you're alone, and the Smith clan begins to work their way toward your brain like Christianengineered versions of the parasites in The Wrath of Khan. You could keep your cool through the simple, sweeping rhythm of headbobber \"Nice of Me,\" which sounds like the prelooping loopers Silver Apples if they played different instruments. You might even think you've got these guys figured out: it's midfi, psychfolk, fauxoutsider music, like Johnny Dowd, or the Tinklers, or Jad Fair. Song two, \"Feeling Tank,\" also goes down relatively easy, the closest this record's 71 minutes comes to a singalong. The rest of the album is a shambling, cacophonic, insane, and very original journey through several mintyfresh themes: avoiding physical pain, seeking comfort, suppressing loinburn, abandoning selfownership, and fleeing nothingness. Daniel Smith rides both sides of Kierkegaard's seesaw dreading the subjugation of your own will to an Other, while simultaneously being grateful for the offload. In one song, God demands ten pushups when Dan \"screws up,\" so Dan offers to do a thousand. In another, someone's funeral is running a bit early, so God \"gets the DJ\" and there's a dance party. This is definitely not the lowfrequency ponderance of moral dilemmas a la Pedro the Lion or Starflyer 59, but it ain't whiteboy gospel either. Smith's bizarre voice, occasionally multitracked, so consciously pursues caricature that he somehow evades it, ably handling universal tensions with a bluntness that circumvents the readysetsincerity of someone like Elliott Smith. Daniel Smith comes across as embattled as the Godwrasslin' poet Gerard Manley Hopkins when he confronts fleshly desires (this album was groan his thesis at Rutgers). \"God Bless\" is about feeling soiled by \"the everyday,\" and the refrain of \"Burnin' Heart\" is \"I am afraid of sex\" (or is that 'sects'?). On the great \"Be Your Wildman,\" Smith sings with his sisters about where his brains and loins differ, and how he deserves to be \"dropkicked.\" Maybe the high voice is a homage to eunuchs, but I guarantee you've heard nothing like this song. In addition to the theodicy, these songs expand the band's scope. \"Bless\" eventually morphs into a rickety, preteen Slint impression; \"Burnin'\" busts into Sonic Youth Group Hayride thrash; and \"Headz\" uses every pedal in the DOD catalog to create a samplable kind of wiggy, avant\"Kumbayah\" dub, complete with dissonant, rubbery Thinking Fellersstyle breakdowns. Ultimately, though, this no doubt earnest art project seems like a documentary of an anthropological oddity, a connection made stronger by this rerelease's CDROM of presentations, performances and videos. Seeing the Danielsons live, with Smith in a trippy, McDonaldland tree costume and his adopted 'siblings' in medical uniforms can fill you with a kind of rapturous spirit, even if the albums don't inspire you to repent. But I can't imagine that anyone will want to replay songs such as the tempoless \"Like a Vacuum,\" which, for all its philosophical lyrical force, trails off, starts over, erupts into tambourine chaos and then into fake laughing (reminiscent of the cackling spiritmoved, truckhungry, sleepdeprived Christian in the documentary Hands on a Hardbody). You can't drive to the beach to a documentary. You can't even drive to the liquor store pumping this disc. The record's only reward for those who patiently revisit it is an appreciation of Smith's uniqueness. But give the blonde redheads in this Garden State Social Club props for trumping the boredom of status quo American Christianity with their rawnerve madness. Anybody could have thrown something tinny together, but as the rollicking drums and doomcarnival xylophones of \"In the Malls, Not of Them\" prove, this almostlistenable stuff is meticulously assembled. This family's tradition of having a spontaneous song hour should make anyone who suffered through a standard fundie childhood jealous of their relative culturelessness like when your Jewish neighbors went to gymnastics at their community center. Our rec center just gave us tater tots and put on \"Mr. Belvedere.\" Though the Danielsons' atmosphere occasionally outsophisticates their primitivity, this record is a few hinges short. You can tell a person about all the extratextual stuff, get 'em interested and then play the album, but no stereo can equalize it to give it even a toehold on your alreadyslippery reality. Few albums so aptly yelp, in form and content, \"Up, up, and shirts on. Let's not have sex.\" "}