{"label":" Chicks on Speed","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2156/homepage_large.de29ec6a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"DAT Politics","title":"Plugs Plus","text":" PBS broadcasts some farout shit. I just finished watching a program about flatworms. That was some trippy stuff. Flatworms are oceandwelling invertebrates that everything on the planet evolved from, or something. They've been around for trillions of years and only now is the youngbuck upstart human species beginning to comprehend their almost indescribable bizarreness. Flatworms are, basically, psychedelically colored, triplewide chow foon noodles. They lead solitary lives cruising the oceans for bits to eat and maybe a shag once in a while. Because they're loners, and the ocean's a pretty huge place especially when ninety of you would comprise a snacksize Cup 'O' Noodle natural selection has seen to it that flatworms are hermaphrodites. This is a good thing, when you consider that the chances of bumping into another flatworm are next to zero, and that if two samesexed worms met up, there wouldn't be any offspring. Soon the oceans would be bereft of platyhelminthes. And we can't have that. Being a hermaphrodite efficiently sidesteps the problem of furthering the species. Once you've encountered another flatworm it doesn't matter, from a reproductive point of view, who's going to be male or female the pair just has to work out who's going to be mommy. This being nature, the flatworms don't discuss the matter or toss a coin for the chance to get up the duff. Nope remember what Kipling said about nature red in tooth and claw? the soontobegettingiton flatworms battle each other... with their two barbed penises! Yup, flatworms are doublewanged, and vicious with them. Mating occurs when the pair collides to form a writhing mass of stabbing, spineless ick. Whoever happens to get pierced anywhere on their body by one of those lovespears, and thereby injected with wormy jizz, gets to be mommy. Why am I telling you this? Well, if you're a fan of DAT Politics, you're going to be as lonely as a flatworm. If you meet another DAT Politics fan, you're going to want to mate with them and frequently, because the ace Plugs Plus is going to make you one horny mollusk.Plugs Plus is the band's fourth album and continues this French trio's exploration of Nickelodeon beatfuckery. It's completely brilliant, of course, in a spazzy, freakyasaflatworm way. DAT Politics don't give you a smooth entry into their frazzled music; there's no gentle ambient intro. Immediately after you press play, \"ReFolk\" gives you threeminute summary of all the crankedup mess of chipmunk vocals and shredded Spymaniac white noise that will appear of the course of the next twelve tracks. \"ReFolk\" also showcases the band's most favored instrument, the butttrumpet. The butttrumpet (my designation, not theirs) is the lead melody instrument on Plugs Plus and sounds like one of my reediest farts the ones when I force it out long before it can mature into a more satisfying lowfrequency fusillade of assacoustics. In addition to spotlighting the harmonic possibilities of the butttrumpet, DAT Politics have invited a bunch of similarly demented guests for Plugs Plus. Blectum from Blechdom shout and coo for \"Pie,\" while Lesser's Felix Kubin rides the crispy static acid gabba of \"Morgens, Mittags,\" going on about his sardines in German. \"Pass Our Class\" finds Matmos and Kid 606 trading ideas about successful strategies for acting classes, coming to the consensus that all you need really do is show your ass. My absolute favorite, though, is \"Tout Bleu,\" in which DAT Politics juxtaposes Stephen Hawking's voicesynthesizer with an erotic French mademoiselle purring about chocolate and things being all blue. As Hawking's synth starts to smoke with overstimulation, DAT Politics turn the track into a beachmovie campathon where Sandra Dee teases her surfer hunk costar James Darren into prematurely popping his wad to the giggling delight of Sandra's springbreaking sorority sisters. Genius, sheer genius. Plugs Plus isn't for everyone, however, and definitely not for every mood. But if you're a sexstarved, doublewanged invertebrate drifter, Plugs Plus will make you one happy, horny hermaphrodite. "}