{"label":" Obtuse Mule","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/220/homepage_large.e7748019.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Apes of Wrath","title":"Apes of Wrath","text":" This isn't a music review so much as it is a warning. Apes of Wrath have undertaken to redefine the term 'niche audience'. Their music, while not abhorrent, is clearly packaged to sell a minimum number of records to the fewest number of listeners. I think they actually put a great deal of thought into this sales strategy. Why would I say such a thing? Other than me being a jackass, there are solid reasons for my conclusions. What we have here is an LP ('longplayer'), but in name only. Not in practice, because in practice, this thing registers fifteen tracks and clocks in at a whopping fifteen minutes. Again: fifteen tracks, fifteen minutes. Longplayer. I'll do the math for you: that's 60 seconds per song. Have you guessed the genre yet? Yes, you have, because you're smart. Sure enough, these folks play punk music more specifically punk of the spazout, hardcore variety. With a dash of 'art', in that they're incredibly fucking pretentious. Mr Neutron plays guitar. Baldo plays the fucking bass. In a questionable move, vocalist/crack addict Brad Mowen takes ownership of the project and uses his real name. Vocalist is probably the right term for Mowen's approach to making noise, one which at times sounds like a small dog's cry for help. At others it sounds like a small Glenn Danzig's cry for help. Now is the part of the review where I don't tell you anything about the songs. Check that. Here's your nugget: they all sound the same. Not to minimize Baldo or Mr Neutron's accomplishments, I will disclose the following to you: I was smiling for the larger part of this album. For one, Mowen had me in stitches, his voice spanning the full spectrum of dissonant, unintelligible nonsense. And the music, however concise, isn't all bad. It certainly has volume. And tempo. Sure, they never take the time to rock completely, but I sense that wasn't exactly the point. Fifteen tracks, fifteen minutes, longplayer. Not much more to this disc than that. I imagine your choice will be about as simple. "}