{"label":" Intr_Version","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2200/homepage_large.99544c88.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Deadbeat","title":"Primordia","text":" Montreal's abstract electronic community is quite the busy little scene right now. With the Mutek and FCMM festival showcasing the city's laptop and posttechno artists, the city seems to spawns another star every week. And this week, it's Scott Montieth. Congratulations, Scott. Deadbeat is the appropriately ambivalent alias Montieth has adopted for Primordia, his dubinspired pop, crack and fuzzmatic debut for the Intr_Version label. So why should anyone take any notice of Montieth's contribution to a style already bloated beyond sustainability? Simply: Montieth is an accomplished manipulator of sound and a swell storyteller. I approach Primordia in two similar ways: either as a narrative about decay, or as an icecore drill's journey through millenniaold packed ice. Whether the album is actually about radioactive decay or glaciology, I'm not certain. But these have served as useful metaphors and tools by which I have come understand and appreciate this seventrack collection. I acknowledge that all of this sounds horribly pretentious. But since this music is definitely more oriented for the Whitney than prepared for Rick's Roadhouse Bar, I think that I'm meeting Montieth headon. Like, if he's being intellectual and artistic enough to describe Brownian motion or the extent of 180 accumulation the glaciers of Greenland, then I should at least attempt to match him. Away from my adopted narrative approaches, Primordia's seven tracks are immensely pixelated versions of Jon Hassell and Brian Eno's Possible Music, with units of distortion and fuzz glide and drift much like Hassell's manipulated trumpet, and the beats here are similar in that they exist out of any time keeping construct. In Possible Music, Nana Vasconcelos and Aiyb Dieng use their ghatam (an earthenware pot percussion instrument featured extensively in South Indian classical music) and congas to comment on and emulate Hassell's and Eno's drifts of sound. Montieth's beats are similarly conversational. But beyond the winking selfeffacement of the name Deadbeat, Montieth's moniker serves to state that his beats don't function like the ones on dance records. In this regard, Montieth's beats are indeed dead. Yet, in his Primordia, Montieth's vision of the pristine state of existence, his beats are very much alive and fully functioning as much freefloating, uncoalesced entities as his fuzzedout, drifting synths. While not exactly revolutionary, Primordia does have the rare quality of being as malleable and fascinating as the mind of whoever's listening. And that can go a long way. "}