{"label":" Moonjune","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2204/homepage_large.f74e7936.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Elton Dean & Mark Hewins","title":"Bar Torque","text":" How many of you are scared of free jazz? Come on, I know there must be more than a few. I was certainly intimidated reading about people like Pharaoh Sanders and Albert Ayler when I was growing up, just a young, naïve Beatle freak. The way the writers spoke of these men and their incendiary, transcendent music; the way it seemed I was expected to have done about 40 years of jazz preparation before I could really appreciate the music at hand it was all too much for me, until the day I actually discovered the music. The thing is, when I actually heard some of it (I believe my first exposure was via Coltrane's Ascension LP, which I'd borrowed from my school music library), I was shocked to find out how \"normal\" it was. That is, normal in the sense of not being the alien, restricted music I had mentally formulated from so much reading. Coltrane's band wasn't playing \"heads,\" that's for sure, but the sounds did seem to make sense, as if I was listening in on some kind of brainstorming session of geniuses. When I really let my guard down, I swear I heard conversations and hundreds of details passing from player to player in a way, it was still too much for a neophyte to comprehend, but in a good way. As it turns out, the free jazz on that record was actually some of the more chaotic (though certainly not unstructured) I've heard, and in fact, I've become so accustomed to the conversational and brainstorming nature of the music that sometimes I don't even register that it's happening. Case in point: Elton Dean and Mark Hewins' duo release, Bar Torque. The music contained on this disc (from a 1992 performance) can often seem like atmospheric mood music the kind you hear in the background of madeforCinemax flicks and the tenser moments of \"Law & Order.\" Other times, the two Englishmen conjure up spooky, postIn a Silent Way impressionism, where moments later they'll venture into unabashedly new age textures. At no point does this record ever become the \"incendiary\" skronkfest I thought I was reading about all those years ago. And yet, this is free jazz in the purest sense of the term: unrehearsed, unedited musical communication and invention. And there's nothing scary about that. Saxophonist Elton Dean (yes, Elton John really did steal his name from this guy) has been pushing the boundaries of improvisation in a rock setting for over thirty years, most notably with the Canterbury outfit, Soft Machine. He appeared on their first three albums, as well as working with likeminded musicians Hugh Hopper, Keith Tippett, Roswell Rudd and Tony Levin. He plays with a lyrical style not obviously akin to the hard, expressive styles of Sanders and Coltrane, but just as willing to explore any number of harmonic avenues. With over twenty albums as a leader, he's easily the more well known of the duo. Guitarist Mark Hewins has worked with many of the same people Dean has, though generally as a sideman or backing musician rather than a featured player. He filters his guitar through MIDI devices on this record to such an extent that it's sometimes hard to tell whether there's even a guitar in the mix. Occasionally, he pulls out his acoustic for more familiar sonorities, but for the most part, his role on Bar Torque seems that of lush harmonic pallet to Dean's soft, watercolor brushstroke. The title track is an epic (just under 25 minutes) display of extended impressionism. It begins with distant motives from Dean, echoing over the ominous, almost growling deal note from Hewins. What sounds like celesta notes reverberating even further back than Dean's figures initiates the movement of the piece. I won't lie: if you turned the volume down a bit and walked away, this might be mistaken for serious background music. Hewins adds a touch of Iberianflavored acoustic, though I still have the feeling this is an enormous prelude to something, rather than a firm statement of the here and now. Several minutes into the track, Hewins opts for more traditional guitar figures, though his MIDI effects surround everything with a warm, almost choral ambience. Meanwhile, Dean is content to jump around the backdrop like a restless fly circling a dim lantern. It's actually quite a relaxing mix (especially when Hewins' guitar imitates church bells), if a tad on the passive side for anyone looking for kinetic interaction. \"Sylvan\" begins with some processed guitar feedback, and yet flighty saxophone motives. Dean will sometimes lapse into figures that sound very close to traditional melodies, and occasionally, Hewins will even provide chordal accompaniment to the point where you might think they're actually playing a \"song.\" This, of course, is always shortlived, as the players opt out for sheer weightlessness, which often results in frustratingly indistinct soundscape. Sometimes, though, Dean and Hewins inject just enough dissonance to make their relatively small peaks and valleys seem larger. Taken as a whole, Bar Torque can be an impressive display of free jazz at its most fluid and familiar. However, despite the high level of musicianship in evidence, I could use more of that \"incendiary transcendence.\" "}