{"label":" Maple","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2205/homepage_large.1ef92ae7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"The Dears","title":"No Cities Left","text":" Holy crap: it's a timetraveling Britpop record from 1995! It took me a while to even work out whether this was any good or not because my giggling kept drowning out the music, but by the time \"Lost in the Plot\" came around, I'd fallen out of my armchair over such a subpar Suede track (as sung by a Canadian who sounds disturbingly like Blur's Damon Albarn circa Parklife). If you catch the irony there that The Dears have made some awfully good incidental music for shots of Justine Frischmann sorting through exboyfriend photos you'll grasp my bafflement. If you don't, it turns out you've got a fighting chance at enjoying this. Because contrary to expectations, The Dears aren't bad at this stuff: in hooks, in atmosphere, and in songwriting, Murray Lightburn credited with writing, producing, and \"directing\" No Cities Left fares pretty well. I'm honorbound to inform you that this record's entertained enough people to receive some rave reviews, and even bestofyear speculation, which is fair enough. As someone with a Gene \"Sleep Well Tonight\" promotional pillowcase somewhere in my closet, I'm not about to blame anyone for enjoying a decentish retroBrit record. It's just that when bands run around with derivations quite as heavy as these, you expect them to sound sharp and knowing, effortless and graceful, packing some brio. The Dears, by and large, make tracks that would slide without much distinction onto any number of mid90s albums, neither gumming up the works nor sounding particularly special. Like...if you don't remember Gene, they were the ones who wore neatlypressed shirts and did sort of wan, effete reflections of the Smiths, like \"Heaven Knows I'm Miserable Now\" with more dramatic armwaving: jazzy guitar arpeggios, suave crooning about dirty motel rooms, occasional bouts of prancing. Only at their most innocuous do The Dears sound much like Gene, although the lyric sheets are indistinguishable more often, Lightburn's off on the semiorchestral cabaretpop trip that would appear to be his big agenda. You'd think that would be a new thing, but no luck: when he does it pretty, it sounds like a less moppety version of the swoony tracks from Blur's Parklife say, \"To the End\", or sometimes \"End of a Century\" and when he makes it dark and ominous, it sounds a whole lot like the cabaretnoir detour Pulp took with This is Hardcore. That Suedeeffect comes mostly when they rock, which they shouldn't, and, wisely, don't. If all of those Britpop references mean nothing to you, good: you won't have to distract yourself from your own giggling to appreciate things like the gorgeous saxophone turns on \"The Second Part\", the sneaky musette on the title track, or the subtly twisting melodies, oftenkeen orchestrations and melancholy pop jangle that are all over this record. You won't have funny little fits of recognition when Lightburn tries on the signature vocal tics of Morrissey and Albarn both within the space of a line, or notice that those \"subtly twisting melodies\" are basically just Parklife gone depressive, because you'll be too busy appreciating the fact that someone made the kind of big, varied, and likeably pretentious pop record no one really makes anymore. You won't have to notice that the lyric sheet and the Side One / Side Two conceit of the track listing seem a lot like the work of someone who spent some serious time with a cassette copy of Kill Uncle hi, Murray, me too! because you'll be noticing that side two is better. S'not good enough to make this record seem like anything more than an okay album released eight years after the fact, but whatever: you can save the same reaction for 2012 bands that sound like the Hives or the French Kicks. Admittedly, I've never liked the people who take such joy in telling you you're not allowed to like a perfectly pleasant record unless you've longappreciated similarsounding records someone else made a decade ago. If the Dears got as big Interpol, I'd actually be pleased to know so many kids were reliving both ends of my teenage years, not to mention creating a market for me to sell off some old records. I'd offer to help them come up with drinking games for the campy lyrics, like you could when Suede got ridiculous: for them it was a sip every time Brett said \"animal,\" \"poison,\" or \"fire\" for Lightburn it'd be a sip every time he sings something Geneish like \"What we want most is nowhere to be found,\" \"I promise not to cry anymore,\" or \"All I want is to feel better.\" You'll die of alcohol poisoning, not depression: in true postSmiths fashion, he leavens all this with teenagebedroom optimism like \"You're not alone,\" \"Don't you lose the faith,\" and \"I know we can last.\" Gene, for the record, did not throw Bendsera Radiohead guitar squalls into the midsections of selected songs. So that's what you're up against: the peculiar sort of dramatic, flowerthrowing, cheekily campy pop record British people were making between the day Morrissey went solo and the day Oasis hit U.S. radio, only without loads of references to London neighborhoods whose symbolism you can't parse suave crooning, rainyday pop strumming, cabaret orchestration, melodic guitar solos, lyrics like \"Somewhere someone says they've got it all/ But that's not even what we want/ Not even close.\" Made by Canadians. In the twentyfirst century. Passably well. If that's the sort of thing you'd like to listen to, you're welcome in my apartment any time. But we will not talk about the Dears. We will listen to Pulp and watch old Smiths videos and throw flowers at one another. Like common people. "}