{"label":" Barsuk","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2215/homepage_large.24933ed2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Death Cab for Cutie","title":"The John Byrd EP","text":" When Death Cab for Cutie announced their amicable separation from Seattlebased indie label Barsuk simultaneously publicizing their signing with Atlantic Records nobody was shocked or appalled: The band's major label bumpup seemed stupidly predestined (slepton, almost), the next and only logical step for a group regularly and glibly namechecked by cast members of \"The O.C.\" (In a wincingly obvious confirmation of taste, a live guest performance by the band has already been scheduled for later this month.) Regardless, the past year has been appropriately transitional for Death Cab, as the band settles into its emerging popularity (a groundswell augmented, no doubt, by frontman Ben Gibbard's halfmillionselling sideproject, the Postal Service), shifting from tiny clubs to decentsized theaters, and becoming accustomed to the quirks of dealing directly with a colossal corporation. Sold only in independent record stores, the sevensong The John Byrd EP blushingly named after the band's dutiful sound man (\"The guy in the beard and glasses,\" Gibbard banters) collects seven live tracks (culled from shows at the Fillmore in San Francisco, the Wiltern in Los Angeles, and the Showbox in the band's hometown of Seattle) has the cobbledtogether, vaguely desperate feeling of an awkward apology an earnest thanks to the folks on their crew and their support staff Barsuk, a fraught promise to fans, an unbreakable testament to the bandbeforethebreakthrough. Conceptually, it's preemptive and timid; in actuality, the EP is perfectly nice but underwhelming and bland, a nonessential gesture from an outfit in flux. \"We Laugh Indoors\", plucked from 2001's The Photo Album, is a comparably limp opener, with Gibbard's voice quiet, flitting in and out, lyrics unintelligible. Guitarist Chris Walla plucks out a meandering melody over a lazy haze of drums and guitar, sounding oddly detached and lifeless until two minutes in, when the band halfheartedly commits to some kind of energetic burst, Gibbard finally aiming for a microphone, his bandmates taking a woozy stab at redemption that works, sort of. The nineminute \"We Looked Like Giants\" can be equally tiring all guitar wankery and live finesse that falls flat on record. \"Photobooth\" is excellent, spedup, and animated, doing its best to engage a crowd that sounds (unsurprisingly) distant, all crossedarms and cool stares. The EP closes with a solid cover of Sebadoh's \"Brand New Love\" (led into by \"Blacking Out the Friction\"). A few lyrics are switched, guitars wail, tempos trip up and down, and Gibbard's crowd chatter is charming enough, but the John Byrd EP is mostly just a pleasant boon for completists, more interesting for its timing than anything else. Death Cab for Cutie may, ostensibly, be teetering on the edge of newness but if this EP is any indication, they've already got their formula nailed down perfectly. "}