{"label":" Hush","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2221/homepage_large.b99310b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"The Decemberists","title":"5 Songs EP","text":" Strange how sometimes you cax92t fully appreciate a band until you hear their lesser material. It's easy to take the most wellexecuted, naturally powerful elements of a band's sound for granted never having heard the early, lessrefined work they've grown from. Such is the case with 5 Songs, a reissue of the Decemberists' selfreleased first EP, which features an additional, titlenullifying sixth track. The same crystalclear, folkinformed sound that spun throughout the Portland band's beautiful fulllength Castaways & Cutouts is at the core of 5 Songs, but singer Colin Meloy's potent, imaginative whimsy is passed up in favor of a more straightforward pop sensibility that's ultimately less rewarding. Much has been made of the similarities between Castaways & Cutouts and Neutral Milk Hotel's opus In the Aeroplane Over the Sea. The two albums do have a lot in common the similar vocal inflections of Meloy and Mangum and the intersecting themes of their material but Meloy's songs address mythical pasts with a certain degree of dreamlike detachment, conjuring and retelling vivid images and tales while never participating directly. Mangum, on the other hand, is a man possessed: he lives his stories, and describes them with a wrenching directness. Meloy's subtle, observational tone seems like a moot point on 5 Songs, which never tackles the same kind of involved, quasihistorical narratives of Castaways. Not only is the EP thematically indistinct, the hazy red pastel clouds and ghostly, disembodied figures of Castaways are replaced with sharp, distinct outlines. Generally speaking, 5 Songs is a much more steady and controlled batch of songs, with none of the unsettling undertones of its winding successor.5 Songs does convey a subtle sense of melancholy, through laidback melodies and evocative instrumentation. The opener \"Oceanside\" is definitely one of the best offerings here, a backdrop of acoustic guitars and accordion painting a vivid picture of some lonely foreign port, perfectly framing Meloy's longing, nautical lyrics. The more uptempo \"Shiny\" fails to develop a particularly moving refrain, relying too heavily upon bits of slide guitar worked into a disappointingly formless structure. \"Angel, Wox92t You Call\" almost delivers on the sparse broken promise of \"Shiny\", building to a powerful chorus, but it stops just short. The appended \"Apology Song\" is simply out of place, with lame, awkward couplets like \"I'm really sorry Steven/ But your bicycle's been stolen.\" Meloy is much more adept describing the regret of a soldier at Burkenau than that of some dude who lost his friend's bike; it's hard to take \"Apology Song\" as anything more than a hokey inside joke, and that can almost cheapen the resonance of his more potent latterday lyrics. Though 5 Songs is by no means a bad release, its relative lack of substance when compared to Castaways is close to staggering; it makes the latter both a relief and a revelation, as the powerful songwriting hinted at here is fully realized. But it's easy to see how Castaways is an evolution from 5 Songs, which suggests that claims of theft or simple imitation hurled at Meloy are somewhat exaggerated, if not outright unfounded. "}