{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2235/homepage_large.5973ad61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"Deerhoof","title":"Bibidi Babidi Boo","text":" You have to hand it to Deerhoof after releasing seven fulllength albums in as many years, the band has built a substantial enough following to merit a few cashins. Fortunately, they seem about as content ripping off their devotees as they are resting on their laurels, and Bibidi Babidi Boo, which could easily have been haphazardly rushed to stores as a stopgap moneymaker, is instead being offered as a gratis download on the new Kill Rock Stars/5 Rue Christine free record label, KRS5RC. The band's generosity goes a long way toward justifying its existence. Few bands are as worthy of inconcert canonization as Deerhoof, whose live show is equal parts lowkey spectacle and exploratory jam session. Many of these live recordings convey a ferocity rarely found on the band's studiorecorded material. Onstage, lead vocalist Satomi Matsuzaki is commanding rather than coy, drummer Greg Saunier has a crazed intensity yet unfailingly musters the band's challenging time signatures, and guitarist Chris Cohen subtly reshapes complex arrangements in a manner that feels improvisational but sounds precise and calculated. That Bibidi Babidi Boo only sporadically manages to convey this energy isn't solely the fault of the band. The album falls prey to the same oversights that so often lead to lackluster live albums a lack of proper sequencing, variable recording fidelity, and several weak performances tucked between stronger moments mar the album in the same way they might an \"official\" release. Perhaps missteps should be expected when cost isn't an issue; still, it's somewhat disappointing that the band's loyal followers have to settle with a compromise rather than be rewarded with the live document they deserve. The album's strongest moments emphasize Deerhoof's talents as a solid rock outfit without sacrificing the band's more experimental leanings. Though free improvisation plays a large role in Deerhoof's songwriting process, Bibidi Babidi Boo's most enjoyable tracks such as \"Milking\", which thrives on manic Kinkslike propulsion until its tranquil bridge streamline the spontaneous impulses of their studio counterparts. In other places, however, the album is weighed down with filler and halfhearted interpretations. \"Dog on the Sidewalk\" sacrifices the compelling minimalism of the band's original arrangement for uninspired rock embellishment. Instrumental interludes such as \"All Rise\" and \"Rainbow Silhouette of the Milky Man\" are brief but superfluous, while \"Wicca Wind\", \"Satan\", and \"The Forbidden Fruits\" are culled from bland, lowenergy performances. Predictably, tracks recorded as BBC Peel Sessions including excellent versions of \"Giga Dance\" (which finds the band members switching instruments, notably Satomi filling in on drums) and \"Desaparecere\" are of higher quality than the more informal radio and concert performances. The interactive visual scheme of the project's website an ambiguous \"map\" of the various performances emphasizes the album's casual creation; it follows no tracklist, and it doesn't even have a discernible form or structure. These songs seem meant to be experienced and then kept or discarded at will, an informal approach that's both charming and frustrating.Bibidi Babidi Boo is destined to hold an awkward place in Deerhoof's impressive discography, if it's ever widely recognized as a proper release at all. Though it's refreshing to know that Deerhoof have refused to play into the seedier commercial practices that so often characterize makeshift releases, the band's consideration doesn't exactly lift the album's dubious value. The material here simply isn't fit for proper release, and the larger looming Great Download Debate that it might have incited a few years ago is old hat. The crucial role of the internet in proliferating new music is pretty much unquestioned at this point, particularly among Deerhoof's audience. Bibidi Babidi Boo is nice for the converted, but it's not an ideal place to discover the band. It's little more than a cobbled together, expendable gift to their fans but at least the price is right. "}