{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/226/homepage_large.73a70bf6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Aphex Twin","title":"26 Mixes for Cash","text":" Cash. Dosh. Dough. Ducats. Dollars. Green. Cream. Lucre. Luciano. Flow. Call it what you wish, currency's agenda remains the same: get paid. Aphex Twin, AFX, Richard D. James, DJ Pritchard D. Jams Cash'n Carry, Polygon Window, Caustic Window, Soit PP, QChastic, or The Diceman, by any other name, he'd still be the eclectic cult of personality electronic genius that we've seemingly known for years. He's been all about the Benjamins more than any of his fans would care to admit. He lives in a bank for Christ's sake! Prolific through the mid90s, Richard D. James seems content now to frustrate fans with halfassed doubledisc sets, blow ears with fullfrequency acidmashed DJ sets with the likes of Russell Haswell, and wow his closest mates with amazing tracks that might never leave his laptop. Today we are left with the scraps from his bygone days as a mischievous media icon, in a subdued pewter digipak containing two discs' worth of musical whoredom, as he remixes both the academic and the absurd with equal amounts of aplomb, pisstakes, and irreverence for the source material. That attitude helps it all go down, especially as he deals with the early 90s' alternative casualties of war. He reduces Curve's \"Falling Free\" to Toni Halliday's bare voice, rebuilding her as a siren calling amidst crashing acid throbs, and for years it has remained a watermark in James' remix repertoire. Seefeel's \"Time to Find Me\" stays surprisingly close to the original, adding a bit more percussion but keeping its 90s crunch crispy and intact. Similarly, he ratchets up St. Etienne's \"Your Voice My Head\" with some burping bass and metallic thumps, making the head nod. One hit wonders Jesus Jones have their forgotten \"Ones and Zeroes\" decimated to the point of grateful extinction, as not a scrap of their sound is audible over its six minutes. Instead, the Aphex Twin Hovercraft is in full regalia, all disembodied lucid dream formations hovering in haunted washes of dislocated drums. Most hilarious is what he does to millionaire simp Trent Reznor. Paid absurd amounts in an attempt to remix Nine Inch Nails and soup up his stuff with that Aphex action, James leaves the odious source tapes unheard on \"The Beauty of Being Numb Section B\", opting for something equally obnoxious. Meandering on the keyboards for the first half of the song, he then decides to blow through a straw uninterestedly and cut up some widemouthed yawns for the remainder. Not exactly a great track, but apropos for the wretched artist in question. \"At the Heart of It All\" is similarly lethargic and halfassed, sounding like he slowed \"Ventolin\" down to 16 RPM and then poured on some slowly heaving, molassesthick brass. Not that the more highbrow and academic musicians get a reprieve from the caustic magic: Gavin Bryars' nearperfect minimalist piece, \"Sinking of the Titanic\", is drowned out by the droning of some wellheeled passengers on the boat, as loud metal drums slowly flood the mix and overtake it completely. While unmindful, it's a pleasant enough take on the composer. Less listenable is a track James spent a good deal of time tweaking, the ponderous Philip Glass orchestration of Bowie/Eno's \"Heroes\", furious in its velocity and swooping sound manipulations, with strings gnashing about as Bowie's melodramatic squawks buzz by. The beatless structure he creates is interesting, yet it remains a cold take that you won't be returning to. More interesting is how he manipulates the easylistening marshmallows of Mike Flowers Pops' \"Debase\" and twists it into something closer to his own take on Candyland. Loving care is given to his mates, though. He takes stabs at no less than five artists on his Rephlex label, all to the most interesting results. The Gentle People's \"Journey\" is a Paradise of extended exotica, like Les Baxter and tiki huts out on the MIR Space Station, where the repeated reverberated refrain of \"We're taking you on a journey,\" becomes a veritable mantra. Kinesthesia's \"Triachus\" could almost be a Tom Waits remix, all junkyard clanging and dustcaked noises, with slow swells of synth breaking through the metal clunks. His remix of 808 State's acid classic \"Flow Coma\" even has a twisted hiphop feel to it, wheeling forward and back, popping and snapping as he spins and halts the frequencies masterfully. Baby Ford's house track is similarly frenzied, which is not surprising, as they're two of his more recent efforts. In hindsight and listening to this release, in particular it's easy to see how Richard James recycles his own ideas in the various remixes and his own songs. At the same time as he was doing his Joyrex bangers, he was also jackhammering the tracks for Mescalinum United. Meat Beat Manifesto's remix could easily hail from I Care Because You Do. And the string sounds that he honed to a cerebellumslicing edge for his Richard D. James Album get trial runs not only through the Gavin Bryars track, but also through the mercurial mashing of gothrocker Phillip Boa's \"Deep in Velvet\", as well as the endearing remix of Thrill Jockey glitch resident Nobukazu Takemura's \"Let My Fish Loose\". More Beat than beatoriented, he loops some acoustic bass with flute trills, all the while abducting Aki Tsuyuko's little girl voice and taking it to various locales: the bottom of a well, the middle of a stirring pit orchestra, out on a pastoral countryside, and down through the cavernous alien world of ring modulation, twisting her gentle frequencies into a nasty extreme that's at once cute and irritating. Most surprising of all is what he does with one of his old Selected Ambient Works tracks. \"SAW2 CD1 TRK 2\" was always a favorite of mine; a lonesome Ligetilike lilt lost amid dark funhouse mirrors. Here it's restored to its original version, as once heard on the John Peel show, in which the \"ambient\" track is merely an eerie backdrop for a vicious acid workover. The drums bubble and hiss like gas escaped from slashing ginsu blades, building into a delicious bumping middle section. It's such a delirious pleasure that it makes me question that perhaps the entire two discs of Selected Ambient Works II might merely be clipped of their nasty beats, and thus presented as mere halves of their former selves. So what we're left with is a set that could have easily arrived back in '97, with little or no loss of quality. That frustrating gestation period aside, many of the tracks here are certified classics, and it's nice to have them all in one place, best approached in small doses. Dated, yes, but James' aheadofthecurve deposits are still accruing enough interest to serve as a polite introduction to his oeuvre. "}