{"label":" Frenchkiss","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2277/homepage_large.e8e7753e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Detachment Kit","title":"Of This Blood...","text":" A lot of bands get accused of sounding like other, more prestigious bands, but it's pretty rare for one of those bands to actively seek proximity to the group which they're being relentlessly compared. When Chicago's Detachment Kit first got rolling, they sounded, to put it lightly, a lot like Les Savy Fav, and almost every review (my own included) of their fine debut, They Raging. Quiet Army, dropped the comparison in its first third. As if to drive home the point, the album was released by Self Starter Foundation, which was also home to Les Savy Fav at the time. And now, three years later, the Kit have hooked up with Les Savy Fav's own Frenchkiss Records for the followup. This is almost too convenient for a critic looking for a quick angle (pay no attention to that man behind the curtain with the pitchfork) the review is practically written in advance by the circumstances. Or so it would seem. The only problem is that the Les Savy Fav comparison doesn't really stick anymore. Instead, Detachment Kit have got all grown up on us, and kicked out a record whose spectrum ranges much wider than their debut. There's not a single track now that feels derivative of their once and present labelmates, and the band leavens its rhythms with dashes of hazy nighthawk balladeering. And though their broader approach yields less consistent results than previously, the highs this time around are much higher, and the album more listenable as a whole. The band's range is probably best exemplified by the best onetwo punch on the album. The propulsive, spastic \"Ted the Electric\", a fuzzy explosion of distorted vocals and trebly bass guitar that rockets by the less than two minutes plays a fine foil to \"Ricochet\", a simple, slow song adorned by Charlie Davis' cleantoned guitar melodies and melancholy verses. Vocalist Ian Menard is at his most controlled and incisive on the first verse, singing, \"This city's a landslide/ It pushes you over,\" with casual grace. \"Pill Cake\" is another early highlight, with its bouncy rhythms, loosely harmonized vocals and loopy, rollercoaster melody. \"Music for Strobelights\" puts a nice spin on beatdriven postpunk in its first verse, laying out hushed vocals over a solid backbeat which is then harassed by counterrhythmic drum fills before the song finally slides into its weightless chorus. The accordion and cello of \"Ice Queen\" heighten the dread of the minorkey arrangement, helping to elevate the song to one of the band's finest. Diversification is not without its pitfalls, however, and a few songs suffer. \"Chronology\" is aimless and even a bit obnoxious for its first half, only finding its center of gravity when a guest vocalist referred to in the liners as the Thin Man picks up the verse, and \"The Race\" grinds a little too hard at nothing. Luckily, missteps like these are refreshingly few and far between. One thing I should mention is that Of This Blood... is a fine discovery in my ongoing quest for superlative liner notes, as it features a corking board game on the inside of the fold, in which a roll is determined by setting your CD player to random and hitting the skip button. Ultimately, it's distinctive touches like these that will help to define Detachment Kit on their own terms, as they've now taken their first broad step away from being defined on Les Savy Fav's. Of This Blood... brings the band into their own, and realizes much of their old potential. "}