{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/22/homepage_large.ab33c1a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Acid Mothers Temple","title":"Mantra of Love","text":" Acid Mothers are strong folk. You'd think they'd tire quickly, all tucked away on their island, strewn about on tree roots while baking their lungs and throats to a knotty green tinge. But instead of waltzing through life like hippies, they manage to not only tour and put out records every year, but also to fill those albums with 30minute jams and assorted freakouts. And while evil jam bands would fill that space with guitar work taken from the Classic Rock Manual of Clichés, Makoto Kawabata and company assault listeners with frighteningly dense walls of white noise, psychedelic swirl effects and, yes, even guitar solos albeit ones that are more Merzbow or Keiji Haino than Gary Rossington. Truly, AMT's endurance and threshold for cosmic lashings are both worthy of admiration. But how much AMT can you take in one sitting? If there's anything this band has taught us via records such as 2002's Electric Heavyland and the ferocious Acid Mothers Temple & the Melting Paraiso U.F.O it's that they're not afraid to reach for the upper regions of consciousness. On Mantra of Love, they offer two titles over the course of one hour, never faltering along the way, and it's as if we listeners are just brief visitors passing through a neverending, spontaneous group trip. For all I know, Kawabata has hundreds of hours of this stuff on his hard drive at any single moment, this record's sheer volume of sound is a clamor to behold. However, if you aren't dialed into that the particular space AMT inhabits (for me, it's the mystical firebaptism standby), you might not hear their glorious noise for all the, well, glorious noise. \"La Le Lo\" begins as a lengthy psychedelic ballad sung by Cotton Casino (who doubles on \"beer & cigarettes\"), who is accompanied by her own ghostly backing vocals. The band is playing a mantra as Casino waxes earthmother stylings to the moon. The serenity is broken by a patented AMT rave led by Kawabata's electric sitar (!) solo. Ace rhythm section Tsuyama Atsushi (\"monster bass\") and Koizumi Hajime hold things together, as does the generally decent recording quality (not a given for these guys), but the real money is in effects lots and lots effects. Much like France's Richard Pinhas or AMT's countrymen in Les Rallizes Denudes and High Rise, the band understands the collaborative power of solo + overdriven Moog sirens and screams. And, also like those artists, Acid Mothers can go on all night if need be. About 25 minutes into this piece, any hell that hadn't already broken loose gets its due, and the band speeds to a fiery climax before winding down into glimmering astroambience. The second track, \"L'Ambition dans le Miroir\", also begins as a minor ballad featuring Casino's haunting solo vocal. The Mothers set her up with a fauxblues drag and a thick buffer of synthrays; when Casino actually enters, she fights for airtime with an array of falling stars and cosmic dust. However, this time there is no overwhelming solo to power the comedown. Casino intermittently coos in the background while droning horns keep the auxiliary pixie haze from evaporating. As they showed on In C and La Novia, AMT are more than adept at creating calmer storms listeners just have to catch them in the right light. Mantra of Love doesn't necessarily capture the most inspired moments in their canon but as usual with this band's records, it's rarely at a loss for moments of horror or grandeur. "}