{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2302/homepage_large.38e0f0ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Dinky","title":"Black Cabaret","text":" Alejandra Iglesias (aka Dinky) is somewhere in Chile right now due to those meddling grups at the INS. You see, for some reason, they're under the impression that just because you weren't born here, you shouldn't have the right to DJ and record slickass odes to urban nightlife and the thrill of getting naked on the dancefloor. I think I heard she got married to an American guy, but even so, Immigration wouldn't let her travel for a couple of years, and jetset downtempo electro loses a lot when you remove the jetset part. So now, she has this CD that she can't really promote, which you're not likely to hear unless you go to the right NYC clubs. Tough break, huh? Dinky's stuff is well within your range if you're in any way enamored of (almost too) mellow electronicpop, comfortably nudged somewhere between Boards of Canada, Röyksopp and the soundtrack to an 80s softcore Cinemax flick. She samples Madonna, but comes off like Björk on downers; she looks like one of the girls in the \"Addicted to Love\" video, but her beats are imported direct from Computer World; she calls it Black Cabaret, but it's obviously gray slink. It's a party record that never attempts to hide its melancholia, or else it's a bored record that can't cover up its casual air of sex. And sex does seem like an integral part of this record. Where you might think the output of one of NYC's upandcoming DJ stars would be filled with dashing, trendy electro or some mutated, American form of garage or twostep, Dinky's stuff doesn't really even seem suited as much for dancing as it does for foreplay, and beyond. In a perfectly delegated world, she might be doing soundtracks for highclass porn, and have you bobbing your head while watching heads bob. \"Berlin Nights\" uses its vintage Korg DDD1 drum track, subtly placed underneath two or three layers of synthesizer watercolor, and loops blond ambition to create the perfect Autobahn cruising track, to be played only when your top three buttons are undone, and the gin's dried up. This music sounds best when you want to be played. \"Mami\" lopes along with considerably less bravado. Where many of the other beats are straightup showroom dummy precision, this one swings a tad on the loose side. Dinky colors the loop with congas and occasional deep bass, and the downward spiraling melody fragments that seem to pop up all over the record lend it genuine tenderness, which might also be interpreted as nostalgic emoting by anyone expecting fireworks. She never really delivers fireworks, per se the most active stuff is the lowkey future funk of \"Frogz\", or the silly take on fastfood Americana, \"American Guy\" but, unlike recent Björk, Black Cabaret is generally able to keep smooth eccentricity from veering into boundless mush (perhaps the Icelandic diva could take some pointers on minimalism here). Of course, if you're not prepared for a comedown, then you might pass this record up entirely. In a way, this music relies on the listener already having danced the night away, and assumes you're ready to fall into lethargic bliss. Dinky certainly knows how to lather up a room of slowmotion players, and if you can stand a bit of sensuality at the expense of outright grinding, Black Cabaret satisfies. "}