{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2314/homepage_large.dbc5a88e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Dirty Vegas","title":"Dirty Vegas","text":" Used to be, way back in the twentieth century, that advertising was based on products, and told consumers all sorts of crazy crap like what the thing did and how much it cost. Somewhere along the line, though, advertisers wised up and realized that consumers didn't care that their Ford Gas Crisis got just under a mile to the gallon as long as they thought they looked cool behind the wheel of sixtyfive tons of American Pride. Now we market image, and things like quality and efficiency have fallen to the wayside. Fortunately for Dirty Vegas, they got in on all this when the getting was good (a 2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse won't even start unless you've got \"Days Go By\" blaring from the sound system and some Girl in a Hat seizing in the passenger seat), because in any other sort of climate, they'd be completely unknown, and rightly so. Dirty Vegas' selftitled release is the stuff Top 40 charts are made of, yet it's been getting lots of play on the college stations in recent days. And as you know, it's the Pitchforkian duty to set these studious DJs straight. Now, for what it's worth, Dirty Vegas won't rob you of the gift of sight or make your ears bleed; it's just boring. At no point on this album does the 'band' even approach the production of anything remotely like a fresh spin on the dance/electropop sound they've coopted. Instead, they try desperately to coast on the strength of a single (and one that's pretty shoddy in its own right, I might add) recycled over and over again in the most predictable and derivative of fashions. The resulting sonic territory is standard electroacoustic fare nothing but homogenous dancefloor bass and acoustic plucking for eleven tracks, with minor variations only to justify the different song titles. The musical foundation laid by Ben and Paul Harris (no relation), while completely uninspired, at least put a smile on my subwoofer more than once, which is more than I can say for the vocals. Steve Smith's voice is the woeful centerpiece of nearly every cut, and whenever he and the music vie for attention, he comes out on top, which isn't generally a good thing. The man's got a voice you'll either hate or really hate, like a cross between Michael Stipe and Dave Matthews, but with less range. Therefore, I expect he'd be better suited to some faceless commercial alternative band than a hackneyed electronic outfit. But hey, I'm not signed to Capitol so what the fuck do I know? The real irony is that despite Steve's misplaced vocal attempts, Dirty Vegas would be tragically incomplete without him. It's hard for me to imagine a musical concept more inept than building dance music around a vocal, but here it is; these songs are skeletons, and his voice is designed to hang on them. It's no surprise, then, that \"Throwing Shapes,\" the lone instrumental offering, is the closest Dirty Vegas comes to pulling off anything worthy of a second listen. But if you threw these guys that bone, you'd run the risk of hearing the first few seconds of the next track, \"Candles.\" For all of its three minutes and twelve seconds, this DMB castoff made me curse the hand that gave me ears; I'm bitter just thinking about it. So what does it all mean? What does all of this ranting and raving portend for Dirty Vegas? Why, naturally, they're going to do pretty well for themselves, because no one with an image like theirs needs something as trivial as talent or new ideas. And just think if you've got crispy hair and a shiny shirt just like Steve Smith (bluetinted shades are optional), or look like a casualty from a fight between Ratt and Flock of Seagulls like one of the Harrises, they might let you into their club. Otherwise, I think you'll agree that music this tired should be put to sleep. Thanks, Mitsubishi. "}