{"label":" Classic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2330/homepage_large.45d64205.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Linhardt","artist":"DJ Andy Smith","title":"The Document II","text":" Andy Smith mixes like I try to review: with an often intolerable confluence of lechery, violence, idiocy, incoherence, and abominable analogies. The body beneath Portishead, Smith DJs with the passion and naivete of someone who covets popular music like it's about to marry his son and cruelly tempt him for the rest of eternity. When someone loves pop culture this much, quality is an afterthought, an extravagance that can only be afforded to imaginary people who have heard everything. Smith knows the number of pop songs you can filter over krush grooves and plush pop is infinite, and goddamn it, he's going to get in as many of those sprightly lunatic anthems as he can. As a result, he also balefully refuses to discern the appalling from the appealing. If there are flaws here, they're the flaws of ceaseless ambition. Smith reaches dizzying heights of Top 40 splendor and underground abysses and he keeps on going, without respite, handling, or guidance. The enthusiasm is infectious. We might almost call it cute if we weren't afraid Rakim and Kool Keith would come strangle us with our own backhanded compliments. There are two ways to understand this mix. Both are inaccurate and reconciliation is impossible. First, it's fundamentally a hiphop album, suffused with rolling, reverberating funk guitars and its fuzz keyboards always supplemented by riotous, exasperating shouts and clamors, like a Pentecostal church built on lunar breaks. The selections range from Mr. Lif's sordid \"The Unorthodox\" to Black Sheep's goofhop bassintheattic classic \"The Choice Is Yours\". The second way is to realize that this is an album that starts with Kate Bush and romps through blueeyed soul, grandfather swing and prog before plummeting straight into what could be the worst version of \"Fire\" I've ever heard. It also concludes with the most beguiling, tumultuous, archetypal, somewhat pathetic pop song of the 60s, Barbara Acklin's \"Am I the Same Girl?\", including everything that title would assume: anticipatory love lyrics occasionally delivered in a queasy falsetto, distracting background vocals, and the passion of the singer without any of the passion of the song itself. Needless to say, a far cry from a critical breakdown. Don't even try to figure this out; you'll only hurt yourself in the process. Just ascribe it to some sort of ironic or \"kitsch\" intention and we can all go home, right? This isn't new territory at all for Smith, or for DJ mixes in general. Portishead fashioned their sound by rolling torch songs and jazz ballads into fragile guttersoaked blunts. But whereas on 1998's The Document swinging from Marvin Gaye to Tom Jones just felt manipulative and contemptible to everyone involved, the new album sounds like someone who quite honestly thinks Mr. Lif could segue into Three Dog Night, a band so antithetical to hiphop their last \"rap battle\" was with Neil Diamond. Or from the toasters, screeches, and epileptogenic bop of DJ Bombjack's \"Big Beat No. 3\" to the greatest junglenoir French pop song ever, Serge Gainsbourg's \"Requiem Pour un Con\". It's a persuasive argument that all music was hiphop, whether a particular genre knew it or not. Of course, this should all be predicated on quality to begin with. If you're mixing James Brown, Kate Bush, and Rakim, it's almost scandalous to make people suffer through Boca 45, Sugarman 3, and other bands so unoriginal they had to plagiarize the names of integers. It's not particularly terrible, but if a mix is all about momentum, these guys are a station wagon's break system. Five by Five's \"Fire\" has got to be the only recorded version known to replace the guitar solos with kazoo. Within the context of the album, it's a bit like seeing Woodstock open for the neighborhood garage band. But then, I just compared half the album to Woodstock, which is about as tenuous and exciting an analogy as anything Smith tries to (or succeeds in) drawing up musically. Smith's actual DJ skills are impeccable and, like all good DJs and governments, virtually imperceptible. He thinks the girth and grit of hiphop can accommodate the sorrow and sanguinity of old soul 45s without the imposition of irrelevant scratching or vain attempts to show why a DJ can be permitted his vanity. Pop music is the bounteous land of elfin mistresses, drug deals, Vegas showmen, and church congregations. Smith seems inundated, and stimulated, by the excess, a martyr to the street and the sublime stupidity of pop history. "}