{"label":" Two Ten","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2343/homepage_large.9ccecf21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Keith Brasel","artist":"DJ Jester","title":"River Walk Riots","text":" Back in 1066, William the Conqueror had a big idea: invade England. So ol' Bill rowed over from France with a big army, landed on some sunless beach and set up camp. He and his cronies then rode around the country, bludgeoned the serfs, raped the horses, and rode off on the women. Pretty soon, Bill had the whole place under his thumb. Then, to add insult to injury, he made everybody speak French, which was kind of a bastard thing to do, but he did it anyway and we continue to bear the scar to this day with all our 'tion' endings and whatnot. So you can't really blame the medieval Brits for when forced to consign this indignity over to history choosing to transcribe the conquest into pictures instead of words. What they ended up making to explain the whole invasion is called the Bayeux Tapestry. Many a teacher makes a big deal out of it in art history classes. It's one of those precious works of art you might run across on PBS to the drone of some fantastically boring British historian. Altogether, the 'tapestry' is about the size of a roll of toilet paper rolled all the way out, so it's not really a tapestry in the big, square, wallhanging sense people are used to. It's a lengthy, linear deal that never truly completes itself. It is woven history that runs on like the number pi, the events like beads on a string. Kinda the same thing with DJ Jester, aka the Filipino Fist out of San Antonio, and his debut album River Walk Riots. Jester has gone off and made a genuinely entertaining album by blending some of the most utterly disparate recordings ever. There's a lot to be said for the amount of weaving that goes into an album of this kind. The man effortlessly references a plethora of movies, songs, voices and hooks without boring you for a second, and creates three cohesive 12minutelong \"segments,\" as he calls them. So it's completely natural to go off calling it a tapestry, or even a quilt if you're so inclined. Thing is, that would be implying there's a completeness here when, in actuality, there is certainly not. On River Walk Riots, Jester's all about stringing it along, following one crazy track with another, oneupping the last goofy song till he's got yards of 'em behind him. His samples, no matter how catchy, tend to pass by like billboards. At points you start to wish he'd produce something resembling a traditional song, or that some sort of pattern would emerge from the long string of mixes a long series of cleverly intertwined songs does not a song make. Still, the man does a good job of keeping your head bobbing, and you begin to understand that he's not necessarily out to create a turntable opera like QBert or Kid Koala. Rather, this guy's about keeping the party moving, and this is one hot mix. There's no shortage of turntablism tricks and maneuvers. His scratching is fresh and innovative, and the mixing is absolutely seamless. His sense of humor is on par with Koala, and it comes off in the joy he elicits by slapping a drum beat beneath an otherwise hokey cowboy ballad or by sampling Richard Simmons. Jester does, however, pull off a small coup with a Willie Nelson track he exploits to transform into a sort of emcee's lament. Willie pines away over a drumbeat courtesy of Jester and gets hiphop relevant when he waxes nostalgic and croons about his \"life and times\" and \"some bad rhymes.\" To top it off, there're Jester's unassailable credentials: the likes of IceT, Rob Swift, the Invisibl Skratch Piklz, Rahzel of the Roots, and of course, Willie Nelson all provide their props before the album gets underway. You know there ain't no messin' around when IceT's gotcha back: \"Yo, shut up, this is IceT, nigga, chilling with my man DJ Jester. Act like you know bitch, 'cause this shit is all real.\" What else do you need? Jester samples Iron Butterfly, Run DMC, MARRS, Ennio Morricone, Hank Williams, Black Sabbath, the Beastie Boys, James Brown, Charles Manson, Bob Marley and even Pavement. You have to hear it to believe it. So just silence yourself, get in your inner tube and enjoy the ride. The river may be long, but it is also funky. "}