{"label":" Emperor Norton","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2349/homepage_large.6406a316.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"DJ Me DJ You","title":"Rainbows and Robots","text":" DJ Me DJ You is Ross Harris and Craig Borrell, two guys best known as the production arm of retrogroove mavens Sukia. In addition to releasing an EP, they've done remix and production work for fellow travelers like Takako Minekawa and Fantastic Plastic Machine. From the company they keep, you'd guess that DJ Me DJ You's music is supposed to be clever, light, fun, and funky. You'd be about half right. This album begins with DJ music's most overworked device: a sample from a test record. Hearing yet another straightlaced voice from the early 60s telling us how to position the speakers of our hifi doesn't bode well for an original listening experience. We brace ourselves for a dull tour of some Salvation Army beathead's obvious record collection, and we expect the worst sort of cutandpaste clichés. But the problem with this album doesn't stem from a lack of originality or the fact that fragmented, kitschy collages are passé. A quick listen reveals that Rainbows and Robots is loaded with bizarre aural scraps of the most obscure order, and the limitless possibilities of sampledriven music suggest that another few dozen great albums are waiting to be born. But rather than make one, these guys pile the oddball soundbytes to the moon without acknowledging the essential rule of pop composition: Give 'em something to grab on to. Successful pop music needs at least one of following components: A beat, a riff or a melody. And despite their skill with offbeat sounds, DJ Me DJ You is stingy with all three. The drums throughout Rainbows and Robots are mixed way back, distancing the music from its hiphop origins. Fragments of guitars, scifi movie quotes, ethnic voices, video games and sound effects records pan back and forth without any repeating hooks to tug you into the sonic maelstrom. And of the many cheesy Moog lines coursing through these tracks, few will have you humming. There are a couple of exceptions. \"Video City Boy\", which combines what I believe are Galaxian samples with a tasty disco string riff, would sound great on any stereo if the volume was high enough. The title track parlays a killer electric piano line straight out of a 70s sitcom and aged drum programming into genuine pop magic. Unfortunately, these are exceptions on what is ultimately a pretty mediocre record. "}