{"label":" Eenie Meenie","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2350/homepage_large.3f85f333.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"DJ Me DJ You","title":"Can You See the Music","text":" Besides being familiar to anyone who's ever consumed lysergic snacks and sat naked in front of their home stereo, contemplating their navel to a Pink Floyd soundtrack, the title of this latest outing by amoebic beat collective DJ Me DJ You is a tiny bit misleading. Yes, the DVD included with the record contains some hilarious lofi visuals in the form of found footage and bargain basement Video Toaster effects complementing the thriftstore sampling approach intrinsic to the group's composing philosophy. And yes, that marriage of image and sound delivers the cocaine disco space opera their first fulllength, Rainbows and Robots, as promised, but on the audio side of things, group masterminds Craig Borrel and Ross Harris have expanded their sound to include an element that strains to find a home in the DJ Me DJ You repertoire. As wellversed as Borrel and Ross are, this new element does little more than make the album's music that much harder to pull into focus. It obstructs rather than illuminates, and the album title becomes a gun to the head rather than a prophetic vision.Can You See The Music isn't nearly as ambitious as its fulllength predecessor, but its approach to instrumentation like Dr. Frankenstein stitching the entrails of a million slabs of wax into a dancefloor monster has been ported over untouched: Dialog snippets lounge in fields of Parliament/Funkadelic bass, while drum machines get down with plastic new wave synths and tinny beatbox thumps. It's all there, and at its best, it combusts into the Jackie Brown swagger of \"Salsa & Microchips\", and the jungle jazz lounge of \"Zodiac Ape\". The misstep here is the addition of something altogether basic: Vocals. Though they mean a whole new bag of tricks for DJ Me DJ You, human flesh doesn't always slide comfortably into the MPC playground. At times, larynxes succumb to the wiles of harddisk drives and glowing motherboards, managing to add to the music rather than block the peephole with their dimpled, wasted asses, but for the most part, you just want your quarter back. The acoustic guitar that drives the opener, \"People Together\", is an omen of the singer/songwriter damage to come, and while the cribbedfromBeck irony of its lyrics are mildly amusing a chorus of \"Sittin' in a sports bar/ Eatin' buffalo wings\" they ultimately relegate the track to the desolate fields of one week's light rotation on college radio. The instrumentation itself is solid, if not a little primed for commercials: some Tijuana horns for accent, a lazy pace; a sleepy bar closer in toto. It's taking musical skill and spilling G. Love's notsospecial sauce all over it or, the voice doesn't do the track justice. Vocals scars the otherwise flawless blaxploitation lowrider \"Fembot\", whose Asian strings, Nintendo 1Up blings, and readyforthesack bass are marred by bad lyrical outtakes from Bob Diggi's \"Love Jones\". \"Trouble\" is drowned beneath processed voices which drone the title like a postheadtrip hallucination. When taken along with the corresponding visuals on the DVD, this hitormiss collection of odd breeding habits is easier to swallow. The stuttering DV footage of old women and Japanese people eating lunch that accompany the lyrical swill of \"New You\" highlight the plucked string melody of the track itself, sweetening an otherwise bitter pill. Can You See the Music is, in that respect, an important milemarker in the growth of the DJ Me DJ You entity. Machines may have more fun, but musically? Musically, this is a record you'll hope they make available in instrumental form. "}