{"label":" BBE","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2361/homepage_large.39848608.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Chennault","artist":"DJ Spinna","title":"Here to There","text":" As part of the acclaimed hiphop group Jigmastas, DJ Spinna rose to prominence with a catalog of tracks that exuded a diaphanous cool and openair jazziness. Like fellow Beat Jedi Madlib, Spinna adhered to a jazzbased aesthetic but was willing to dig into other genre's for a pasticcio rewarding in its eclecticism. Although Spinna's religious approach to beatmining resulted in some of the genre's slyest rhythms, Spinna's lyrical counterpart, Jigmasta MC Kriminul, wasn't the most compelling lyricist around at least, not for the duration of an entire album. Spinna then went on to more tangential projects, which reached a zenith in Strange Games and Things, an excellent cornucopia of 70s soul and raregroove nuggets.Here to There marks Spinna's contribution to the excellent \"BBE Beat Generation\", a series that's yielded some of the most soughtafter beatfests of the past two years, including excellent outings by the likes of legendary hiphop producers Pete Rock, Jazzy Jeff, and Jay Dee. Although there's no mistaking Here to There for anything other than a hiphop album, Spinna weaves a thick musical lattice of R&B;, house, jazz, and blues. Like DJ Shadow's classic Endtroducing, the breadth of music cultures covered on Here to There is nearly overwhelming, and once again reaffirms the producer's role as cultural archivist. But unlike Shadow's often sullenly aggressive and disparately derivative style, Spinna's vision of American music in the latter 20th century is irrefutably harmonious. For Here to There, Spinna mines the jazz cool of Art Blakey, the bittersweet swoon of classic Marvin Gaye, and the dancehall euphoria of Carl Craig. On \"Rock (Unplugged)\", Tortured Soul multiinstrumentalist Jay Rodriguez punctuates Spinna's \"rock the house\" cuts with blasts of sax while Ethan White adds a welcome Rhodesfueled funk groove. \"Idols\" has a Wurlitzer twinkling atop shifting kooljazz breaks as the sultry soultress Vinia Mojica slithers between subtle vibraphone tones. Spinna even harks back to his previous work on the house compilation Raiding the Crates for the broken beat production of \"Music and Me\". The guest MCs on Here to There are exceptional, and manage to maintain the vibe of eclecticism and optimism. A synth wobbles on top of a slow and sweet break as Shadowman reclaims his failures in a paean to selfdetermination on the standout \"Driven\". And the Apani B. Fly and Jean Grea guest spots on \"Hold\" are a testament to the increasing popular assertion that females are the future of hiphop lyricism. Sometimes, though, the melding of different strains of music is almost too seamless. As flawlessly as everything blends, Here to There doesn't really suggest any new relationships between the various genres that Spinna incorporates. While aural fission is obviously something Spinna is trying to avoid at all costs, the music occasionally takes on the qualities of smooth jazz, especially on Soulivebacked track \"All Up in It\". Still, if the listener wants to be seduced by the music, rather than confronted and challenged, Here to There comes highly recommended. "}