{"label":" Plug Research","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2377/homepage_large.c7ccde7c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Dntel","title":"(This Is) The Dream of Evan and Chan EP","text":" The second single lifted from Dntel's outstanding Life Is Full of Possibilities album, (This Is) The Dream of Evan and Chan, could so easily have been in jeopardy. Allowing remix talent free rein on this resplendent jewel puts all I love about it in serious peril. What might hamfisted, greenbackgrubbing remixers do to the melancholy, glitchinflected pop of Jimmy Tamborello and guest vocalist Ben Gibbard of Death Cab for Cutie? I need not have feared, as Plug Research has commissioned remixes from artists largely in harmony with Tamborello's aesthetic. The downside of that ploy is that I'm not much struck by the somewhat obvious choice of artists here. What would Coil have made of this fracturedbeat pop? How about a Vladislav Delay overhaul? Not that those whom Plug Research chose to retool these songs disgrace themselves or trash the songs at all; it's just that some variety might be a nice changeup from these indie remix releases. Plug Research's own Safety Scissors takes the first swing and almost hits the song out of the park, toughening up the winsome accompaniment of the original by spiking the song with electro stabs and squiggles. Safety Scissors has a similarly brusque manner when it comes to Gibbard's performance and the lyrics he sings. In fact, he does away with Gibbard entirely and replaces him with Erlend Øye of Kings of Convenience and in homage to Safety Scissors' treatment of Gibbard, Øye feels at liberty to rewrite the lyrics. The nostalgia of the original remains, but now it's bolstered by an awkward gruffness. Barbara Morgenstern, stalwart of the Germanybased Monika label, chooses to leave the instrumental track pretty much untinkered with, save the addition of a church organ to heap on a doomy ambience. Her remix, such as it is, turns the song into a duet. Her vocals closely track Gibbard's, adding only a hint of the melismatics that might earn her a spot in the opening rounds of the next \"American Idol\" competition. The big room remix is Superpitcher, who recasts the song as an eightminute lofi house track. He abides by the axiom that the most memorable house and disco has an air of true melancholy. Fortunately, \"(This Is) The Dream of Evan and Chan\" has plenty of that. Atop the fourtothefloor glory, Superpitcher sprinkles some grubby flecks of distortion. Then, after a massive peal of bells, he removes all percussion and bass throbs, before finally lending an Astrobotnia vibe to the mix by sliding in a ghostly countermelody that wisps past Gibbard's repeats of \"ringing, ringing, ring off.\" Of all the mixes on this disc, this is the one that will attract new comers to Dntel. The fourth and final attempt at adhering to the remixer's Hippocratic Oath (\"do no harm\") is Lali Puna's instrumental mix. While the duo does no irreparable damage, they don't do much good with their instrumental mix, either. Much of the charm of the original song lies in Gibbard's fey delivery of the curious melody. Markus Acher and Valerie Trebeljahr substitute that curious but eminently hummable tune with a more meandering alternative. As they proved with their album Scary World Theory, Lali Puna are capable of bringing more hooks out of the vaults than Home Depot shelfstockers. But for this remix, they've wandered past those vaults and into the cold storage lockers where they keep dreary junk they haven't yet parted with. I do note, however, that this remix deflects any criticism that Lali Puna are mere slavish Two Lone Swordsmen copyists. This clickscuffed remix could seamlessly appear on one of Jan Jelinek's ~scape compilations. A new song titled \"The Hill\" is included here as a bonus, with Tamborello assuming vocal duties. While the track is certainly no equal of \"Evan and Chan\" in unabashed charm, Tamborello does manage to match its nostalgia. Over layers of accordions and thoroughbred busted beats, he advises the listener, \"Slide down your hill/ Until you remember how fun it was/ When you were young/ And don't forget to keep it with you when our time is over/ The alarm bell's rung and the week's begun.\" \"The Hill\" restates the obvious fact that none of us is getting any younger, but reinforces that that doesn't mean we're destined to become crotchety gits. In fact, absorption of this single and the album that spawned it will nigh on guarantee you youthful vigor and sentiment long after you've made that devastating jump to disposable underwear. "}