{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2386/homepage_large.a72eb603.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Julie Doiron","title":"Heart and Crime","text":" I do not speak French. At some point in time, just prior to a trip to Paris, I managed to learn enough garbled individual phrases to order food, get the check, and ask for the bathroom. Embarrassed at my lack of linguistic skill, I spent most of my trip to France a deafmute. Since then, Francophone friends have put forth considerable effort into my mastery of the tongue, but all was largely for naught. I remain a linguistic idiot, confined to English and occasional vague memories of high school Latin class. So, for me, a new Julie Doiron album in English is a good thing. Despite the ethereal beauty of Desormais, I could never shrug off the feeling that certain things were lost in translation. Doiron's music is painfully intimate, and the distance invoked by the language barrier almost made me feel like I didn't deserve to hear what she had to say. Heart and Crime now falls immediately on the heels of Desormais. And like its predecessor it relies heavily on a spare fingerpicked style, adding little instrumentation aside from Doiron's vocals, her guitar, and an occasional burst of trumpet, piano, organ or drums. What separates Doiron from Chan Marshall, Edith Frost, and other such sad chanteuses, is not easy to express. It has to do with the way Doiron breaks down barriers between listeners and herself. In part, this results from the warmth of her vocal quality, assisted by a clever recording style which creates the illusion that Doiron is literally murmuring into your ear. This mode lends credibility to lines like the ones in \"Sending the Photograph,\" when she refrains with, \"He's the best thing to happen to me/ And I'm the best thing for him.\" An unremarkable lyric on paper, sure, but there is conviction in Doiron's voice enough to make you believe that she believes, whether or not the song is fiction or based on life experience. And it gains greater weight with the sincerity and deftness of her musical accompaniment. The album maintains a tenuous relationship to chamberpop in its occasional integration of jazzy instrumentation. The lone trumpet line in \"Shivers\" complements the union between Doiron's muted guitar style and her vocal technique, evoking a more sophisticated uptown sound. And though the sparseness is affecting, most of the best tracks on this album feature small doses of other instruments, whether it's the piano on \"The Surgery Is Over\" or the harmonica in \"All Their Broken Hearts.\"Heart and Crime is pretty sensual stuff. Too sad, perhaps, to qualify as \"sexy,\" but ideal for solitude. There's something comfortable about this album slow and soft and effortlessly listenable. Perhaps it's that Doiron never sounds as if she's got anything to prove. No textbook studies of morbid depression and incipient madness, no moments of screaming catharsis. And it's good to know that singer/songwriters can still maintain that sort of nofrills approach without string sections and concept album style narrative. If nothing else, this is a significant measure of her skill. That being said, I'm not predisposed to distrusting mellow music, and the relative simplicity is an undeniable asset. But this is not an album that will grab you in a roomful of people. Doiron provides the listener with a fair amount of created mood and atmosphere, but there's not a lot of variation song to song. She lets you in immediately, but it's your responsibility to listen closely to what she has to say. And this could become pleasant background noise with the slightest amount of effort. That all the songs maintain roughly the same tempo and almost the same key is even more noticeable on the second half of the album, which starts to drag a bit somewhere around \"Who Will Be the One,\" a guitarandvoiceonly track. This precedes two others, \"The One You Love\" and the (ironically?) titled \"I Love to Dance,\" which sound strikingly similar.Heart and Crime works particularly well as an English companion piece to Desormais. The closeness of the release dates and the overall similarities between the two albums seem hardly coincidental. But, linguistic challenges aside, Heart and Crime doesn't improve much upon its predecessor, and I wonder if it would have achieved greater effect as the second half of a double album. Idle speculation, perhaps. Or a more polite way of saying, \"Good, but not quite as good as I wanted it to be.\" "}