{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2387/homepage_large.306edb98.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Julie Doiron","title":"Desormais","text":" Pop quiz! Please translate these phrases from French into English. The answers are listed below. 1. Je n'ai pas compris un seul mot de ce qu'elle a dit. 2. Yngwie Malmsteen ne joue pas pour le groupe dans cet album. 3. Julie Doiron a pris des cours de chant avec l'ange Gabriel. 4. C'est definitivement meilleur que Jordy (Dur Dur d'etre Bebe). 5. Je m'excuse au cas ou vous etes Francais and si vous ne comprenez pas mon sarcasme. 6. Honnetement, Desormais est excellent et captivant. 1. Translation: \"I could not understand a damn word she was saying.\" Like most high school French teachers, I don't actually speak French. Julie Doiron does, though. She began her career as bassist and singer for the wellregarded Canadian indie group Eric's Trip. Since the band split in 1996, Doiron has taken to releasing somber acoustic music, initially under the moniker Broken Girl, then later under her own name. Desormais is her first Francophonic release. 2. Translation: \"Yngwie Malmsteen played no part in making this album.\" 80s shredmaster Yngwie Malmsteen could probably play 1,000 distinct guitar harmonics before you could pick your nose. Doiron would be lucky to play 1,000 notes before her next album is released this spring she has a reputation for minimalist, acoustic compositions. On Desormais, the common denominator is sparse fingerpicking with little other accompaniment. The most captivating song on the album, \"Pour Toujours,\" begins this way, with Doiron gently but methodically plucking twonote intervals, sans backup. Subdued samples gradually begin to pulse underneath the guitar. Later, a drum march enters the foreground and raises the song to its dramatic peak. The musical interplay is tremendous, but sadly, it ends too prematurely. I will gripe about this; Doiron is exceptional at establishing mood, but less adept at driving home climax her song structures sometimes lack finality. In essence, I feel like there's more \"there\" there. 3. Translation: \"Julie Doiron took voice lessons from the angel Gabriel.\" Trite, I know, but it's true. Doiron's voice carries the album. Gentle and passionate, it forms the perfect complement to Doiron's minimalism. Without her expressive timbre, this would be aboveaverage acoustic meditation. As is, however, it's enchanting. Furthermore, Doiron does a tasteful job adding harmony when the mood requires it, as on the fragile, compelling, \"Le Piano\" (which regrettably tails off just like \"Pour Toujours\"). 4. Translation: \"This is definitely better than Jordy (It's So Tough to Be a Baby).\" French toddler Jordy LeMoine was four years old when he scored the international hit single \"It's So Tough to Be a Baby.\" This has nothing at all to do with Julie Doiron she's not even French. But Jordy is, and he was four when he achieved pop stardom. With a song about being a fucking baby. French people, man. 5. Translation: \"I apologize if you are French and cannot understand my sarcasm.\" I was feeling a little guilty for #4; sorry, Frenchfolks. Let's be friends. \"Pour le future J'espere etre Francais!\" 6. Translation: \"Honestly, this album is gorgeous and captivating.\" Back to business: Julie Doiron has put together another beautiful album. It's neither groundbreaking nor incredible, but it's definitely one of those discs you'll be glad to own. Like for when you're in love with someone. Or when you just want to make someone think you're in love with them by adding a Doiron song to a mix tape. Or when you're on a couch and R Kelly just isn't cutting it for serious cuddletime. Julie Doiron gets these \"cuddling\" references a lot. They're indeed accurate, but I think her music is more flexible. It would also sound good watching lovers walking through the autumn leaves, or laying on your back thinking about your lover, or falling to sleep with your lover still busy reading a book, or eating brunch with your lover, or trading some Bob Carlislestyle butterfly kisses with your lover. Or, conversely, gentle sex. It's your call. "}