{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2405/homepage_large.3500b5ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Donovan","title":"A Gift from a Garden to a Flower: A Tribute to Donovan","text":" The cognoscenti of rock, looking to dignify the object of their study and affection, has largely seen fit to revise the psychedelic era into something less embarrassing than it actually was. If it weren't for things like the Woodstock documentary, young pups only now becoming acquainted with the period might be led to believe that hippies actually had some substance to them rather than simply having substances in them. One of the most ruthlessly expunged figures from the time was one Donovan Leitch, that poor, trusting sap who bought into all the promises flying around the midtolate60s with myopic conviction. Through his music, he spread the gospel to blissedout followers only to find that he had chained himself to a sinking social and musical movement. When he went down with the ship, more than a few musiclovers were happy enough to be spared the reminder of what they formerly thought were the easy answers to life's most difficult questions. If he can be forgiven for his naivete (and he can), then Donovan deserves a much kinder evaluation than he usually gets. The sunny folks at Darla Records seem to have thought so, too, and rather than simply carping about it, they went out and assembled a tribute record to a man few would seem brave enough to publicly salute. A total of eighteen groups queue up on A Gift from a Garden to a Flower, drawing out the elements that made Donovan so enjoyable, as well as some of the ones that made him silly. As Bob Dylan can tell you, it's easy to poke fun at Donovan so much so that many of the artists on Gift do it while attempting to do the exact opposite. The torch of Donovan's excessive seriousness is regrettably carried on by The Blood Group and Pale Horse and Rider, smudging \"Colours\" and \"There Is an Ocean\", respectively. Selfindulgence is also on display, with track after track showing to varying degrees the crimes against good taste so easily committed by the chemically impaired. Worst of all are the ones whose selfconsciousness leads them to douse their entries with heaps of irony. Ciao Bella's murder of \"Mellow Yellow\" is absolutely egregious if they were so uncomfortable affirming Donovan's talents, perhaps they should have sat this one out. The ease with which Donovan can be transmogrified into a walking joke tends to overshadow the fact that he was an able songwriter, and that, with the aid of producer Mickie Most, he was able to contribute some delightful moments to the rock canon. Though no one takes a shot at his only #1, the Jimmy Pageenhanced \"Sunshine Superman\", there are enough other highlights to make up for it. Rising stars Pas/Cal pitch in with \"Oh Gosh\", Lenola trips out \"Atlantis\" to the breaking point, and the estimable My Morning Jacket gives \"Wear Your Love Like Heaven\" a fun technological dressingup that respects the spirit of the original. But the jewel of the bunch, surprisingly, is Watoo Watoo's runthrough of \"Jennifer Juniper\", a brilliant recasting of baroque pop as skittering, lowkey electronica. They and the other standout performers prove that Donovan's unapologetic optimism sewed seeds that far outlived his epoch, and in the process, show that that's not such a bad thing after all. "}