{"label":" Mr. Lady","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2409/homepage_large.2e19c181.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Sarah Dougher","title":"The Bluff","text":" I have a hunch that Sarah Dougher would intimidate me. Not in a starstuck sort of way; like when you find yourself catching a peripheral glance of an icon at the center seat of an entourage table in the sort of place that probably shouldn't have even admitted you, and while you mull over possible comments or questions, you totter on your poor choice of last season's footwear and spill your beer all over the table's most belligerent member. Not that this has happened to me. The intimidation factor on Sarah Dougher arises out of a sense that, from what I've read, she's a woman who has her shit together: she's a professor of writing and classical mythology (among other things), the author of books on racism and railroad building, an exmember of bands like the Lookers, the Crabs and Cadallaca, and a solo artist with, as of right now, a third solo album under her belt. Her latest, The Bluff caused me to throw open my car doors, sit on the hood, and enjoy the freezing cold of the Blue Ridge Parkway, soundtracked by title song on repeat. To describe this as an album consisting primarily of subtle, pretty songs about relationships (though, technically, it is) risks pigeonholing it as another candidate in an increasingly forgettable list of female singer/songwriters. A conspicuous thread of 60s psychedelic rock runs through the uptempo tracks on the first part of the album. The best of these, \"Must Believe,\" features Dougher's swirling organ work, and a Nuggetsera minor key guitar line. The lyrics are simple enough, but when Dougher sings, \"When you hold me in your arms, I must believe it's true,\" the manifest sense of desperation (helped by Corin Tucker's banshee backing vocals) elevates the overall sense to something more than retropop. Likewise, \"Keep Me\" features a borderline surfrock guitar line, and deceivingly straightforward lyrics in the verses, while walking the fine line between rage and regret in the choruses: \"You ask me in and then treat me like an uninvited whore/ Don't throw it away/ Nothing beautiful stays.\" The second half of the album flirts with a wider variety of influences, and within these, Dougher has some really spectacular moments the spare drum machine bossa nova of \"System Works\" resolves itself into a wailing, crunchy chorus. It's a juxtaposition that works, and one of the most unusual songs on the album. Others are less successful. The politely folky \"My Kingdom\" is pretty but predictable, and you'll swear you've heard the spare, major key blues on \"Fall Down\" before. The meditative organ ballad, \"The Choice,\" has a nice resonance to it, but feels druggy and plodding after the album's first half. Say what you like about complaints concerning the track sequence, but it seems to me, the excellent, affecting cover of Allen Toussaint's 1962 piano blues, \"It's Raining,\" would have been a better candidate for album closer. This is an easy album to digest, cleaner, more cautious, and less raw than Dougher's previous, The Walls Ablaze. The edge primarily exists in the contrast between Dougher's earthy, plaintive vocal quality and the tidy lines in the songs. Greater pains have been taken to blur the rawness around the edges. I've always suspected Sarah Dougher is the kind of performer who's constantly engaged in an internal dialogue with her own impulses, as if her more explosive inclinations are tempered by a kind of cautious restraint both instrumentally and vocally. She never surrenders herself wholly to a particular persona neither spunky, petulant rocker, nor melancholic storyteller. And some of the best moments occur when these internal arguments reveal themselves within the body of songs. Like midway through the elegant, enigmatic title track, when, hanging over a precipice of building guitars, Dougher suddenly pulls back and resolves into sweet and cautious. It works. The bluff. Yeah, I get it. "}