{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2410/homepage_large.780dd43b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Eccleston","artist":"Doves","title":"Lost Souls","text":" You know, we music journalists have to contend with a myriad of internal voices while reviewing. There's the simple, straightforward, credulous voice of the listener, who takes bands, songs and packages at face value. As a counter check, there's a savvier, hipper voice that considers music a constructed, madeup thing, sold to us by bands and manufacturers through advertising, press buzz and the everenticing promise of press photos. And, finally, there's a purely contrarian voice that plays devil's advocate, finding the easy path and countering it at every turn. This kind of intrapersonal debating occurs with every release, but rages almost uncontrollably in the instance of a talkedup offering. Because in such a case, it becomes so important to keep oneself from being swept up in embarrassing critical groundswell without dismissing a record that might be good just because someone else likes it. Case in point: Doves'  Lost Souls  , an album currently coasting on tons of buzz. Follow us as we take a look at three different approaches to reviewing the record, while revealing the secret tricks of the reviewer's game: Step One: Snappy, Superficial Introduction  Straightforward:  While, in the United States, electronic music is considered a new, arty, futuristic medium, it's been a part of the European palette for years. While Underworld seem spacy and abstract on these shores, they're a legit commercial force for our friends across the sea. What's more, techno's such a known quantity across the Atlantic that it's become strictly pro forma for any selfrespecting rock band to incorporate a little 808 thud into their rock and roll mix. Cynical:  After the \"electronica\" \"boom\" rose and fell like Keith Flint's spiky haircut, all the big fancy record companies and the attendant fauxraver acts to whom they'd promised the world had to find a way to shore up their losses. Thus, the awkward shotgun marriage of rock to drum machines, resulting in efforts ranging from lovely (Radiohead) to dull (Smash Mouth) to bizarre (Rolling Stones produced by the Dust Brothers). All in all, the experiment can be deemed a bust. Contrarian:  Techno? Technorock fusion? Fuck that! Step Two: Introduce the Band  Straightforward:  A good, if somewhat surprising, example of the Euro techrock fusion is the debut LP from Doves,  Lost Souls  . Where most of the fusing has gone on in the rock camp as aging amppowered dinos struggled for relevance, Doves' effort provides a rare example of technoschooled musicians digging in the crates for inspiration. Having made their first splash as a straightahead club act called Sub Sub, this trio of blokes woodshedded for a long time, started playing anachronistic instruments you strummed, plucked and hit, and ended up with a collection of damnnearnormal rock songs. Of course, the tincture of their throbbing housekid past lurks in the shadows all the same. Cynical:  The latest group of credhungry beat monsters to cross this writer's desk are Doves, a frustratingly noncapitalized or articled threesome from the UK. Their record's got everything written in lowercase, there's a lot of noiry photos of a boxer, and the damn thing is called  Lost Souls  , all of which reeks of art (or, perhaps more aptly, \"ahhht\"). Scowling in front of a cityscape, clad in flannel, and sporting ridiculous stubblefields on their faces, Doves look like they're running as hard as they can from their bow as Sub Sub. There's a reason the single they released under that moniker never made it stateside, and I'm sure it had everything to do with the description \"M Peopleesque,\" which appeared in the press kit. Contrarian:  Hairy, seriouslooking songwriter types from England? Fuck that! Step Three: Flailingly Desperate Attempt to Describe the Record  Straightforward:  Lost Souls  is nothing if not a sprawling, ambitious effort. Padded for U.S. arrival with three bonus tracks, the disc stretches out to more than 72 minutes, and I'll be damned if it isn't a solid, engaging effort throughout. Where the increased running time of a CD is usually more beast than beauty, the breathing room allows Doves to stretch out. Few of these tracks weigh in under the fiveminute mark, and most of their durations are given over to jangling acoustic guitars and midtempo rhythms that, in places, resemble Mogwai's moments of plaintive contemplation. Tonally,  Lost Souls  reflects the afteraftermidnight hours, as if the boys felt the need to document the hung over and blissedout aftermath of the dancinghours frenzy their Sub Sub days offered listeners years ago. That rarest of animals, a singing drummer named Andy Williams, wails discontentedly and virtually wordlessly over swelling and receding musical themes, while atmospheric keyboards and ominous samplework provide texture the barebones acoustic arrangements wouldn't achieve on their own. Cynical:  The heart of the problem on  Lost Souls  is its overreaching ambition. Naming the first track the virtually instrumental \"Firesuite\" after the famous foursong suite from the Beach Boys'  Smile  sessions gives it away instantly. Doves are, in both their tilting and endlessly sculpted sounds, after the same instrumental evocations Brian Wilson made and destroyed at the peak of his compositional powers. In most principle respects, this album is straight, rockist Britpop. But the samples and keyboards serve only to dress up fairly conventional songs, as if to conceal their pedestrian nature. Contrarian:  More Brian Wilson namechecking? Fuck that! Step Four: TrackbyTrack Highlights and Lowlights  Straightforward:  Lost Souls  , despite its reach and ambition, works best in its most conventionally melodic moments. The aptly named \"Melody Calls\" juxtaposes a typically languid vocal against an uncharacteristically jaunty guitar riff, and the result is a little radioready wonder. Similarly, the title cut's deep, throbbing chords work as this melancholy work's catalytic center, distilling the band's mixture of atmosphere and song down to a kind of essence. Among the more adventurous tracks, \"Firesuite\" and \"Break Me Gently\" work best because of their carefully planned development and the skillful use of heavily effected vocals, which flesh out what could have been almost Dave Matthewssized swaths of dull 'jamming.' But the stately ballad at the end of the album proper, \"A House,\" accentuates the songiness of this effort. These boys are interested in beauty, power, emotion and feeling. Not idle wanking. Cynical:  Hey! He stole my stuff! Punk. Contrarian:  Emotion and feeling?! Fuck that! Step Five: Summation  Straightforward:  Despite its excesses,  Lost Souls  offers a novel twist on the electronicsplusrockequalsfunfortrainspotters equation. The techrock fusion isn't dead in the water yet. Cynical:  Okay, fine. Even Brits can do something decent from time to time. Contrarian:  Fuck England! Rating  Straightforward:  7.3 Cynical:  6.2 Contrarian:  Fuck numbers! "}