{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2411/homepage_large.e9c293e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Doves","title":"The Last Broadcast","text":" So I'm playing with my new office chair right now. The floor of my apartment is woodfinished and extremely warped, so there are all kinds of little bumps and valleys to roll over. Combine that with the fact that all the ball bearings and wheels are brand new and heavily viscous and I could amuse myself doing this for quite a while. I guess it's the simple things that give you pleasure after a long day at work, juggling projects and trying to get out of there at five. My job is pretty hectic and I usually come home all wound up, so it's good to have these little diversions to help myself. Tonight the stress has me feeling particularly goofy. Normally I wouldn't think of Manchester's Doves as an appropriate soundtrack for this kind of mood, but that's largely because until very recently I was only familiar with their first album, 2000's dark, murky Lost Souls. On that record, the band showed their facility with dark, claustrophobic textures and muted melodic statements, only occasionally indulging their impressive pop sense. And while their latest offering, The Last Broadcast, could hardly be called a wholesale revamping of their sound, it concentrates mostly on elements that the trio kept very subdued on their debut. For one thing, while Lost Souls was certainly nothing to sniff at, the band sounds infinitely more comfortable and confident here, placing more faith in their writing and relying less on production to put forth their ideas. The record still abounds with thoughtful audio details, mind you but here they're almost always employed in the service of melody. Even the exceptions to that rule the short instrumental tracks like \"Intro\" and \"Where We're Calling From\" build tension while moving toward the catharsis of the next fullyfleshed song. \"Where We're Calling From\" is a dense wall of swirling guitars and keyboards, growing ever thicker until finally evaporating, leaving the initial strums of \"N.Y.\" in its place. \"N.Y.\" is exultant in its first verse, all crashing guitars and soaring vocals. The instrumental midsection is one the band's finest moments, cut through with an unobtrusive string section and some surprisingly dynamic interplay. \"Let's go while we can/ Put your finger on the map/ Who cares where it lands,\" sings Jez Williams as the song gathers steam behind him. It's one of several tracks that makes The Last Broadcast a brighter, and in some ways more accessible, album than its predecessor. Elsewhere, the band lay down a ream of excellent songs beginning with \"Words,\" a steadily chugging confection of astral guitar, vocal harmonies and glockenspiel that does a remarkable job of boring a limited melody straight into your memory. It's followed by the loping, sevenminute \"There Goes the Fear,\" which is a strong candidate for one of the band's best songs yet, its bounce befitting the subdued melody and diving, almost countryish slide guitar that swoops in the background. Doves have always been a band who could come out swinging with a powerful pop song when they wanted to, and this just proves that they should do it more often. A few songs naturally point back to the band's original direction, such as the haunting, noir \"Friday's Dust,\" with its crystalline strings (arranged by Sean O'Hagan and Marcus Holdaway) and strange production. Devoid of percussion, the song floats along almost like something Talk Talk might have produced in their later years, replete with ghostly clarinets and odd smatterings of brass. Of course, \"Pounding\" bounces right back with a... well, pounding rhythm and a sterling melody, as well as some spirited rhythm guitar. The boys get downright proggy on the intro to \"The Sulphur Man,\" with sweeping strings deceptively setting the stage for what turns out to be a relatively modest song, albeit one cut through with all sorts of inventive little flourishes, like the strings that rise in the verses, threatening to overtake the vocals before abruptly backing down and retreating to the background, only to attempt another coup a few seconds later. It's those details that make a good song great, and that's what makes The Last Broadcast an easy record to come back to chances are you missed an awful lot the first few times you listened. \"Caught by the River\" closes things on a high note, riding out on a sturdy acoustic guitar frame adorned by the band's usual sonic fireworks and pushed forward by some very economical drumming. To the listener's benefit, the electric guitar parts aren't so economical, and the band masterfully layers soaring leads, ultimately ending on a glowing bed of reverb and clean guitar. It's a fittingly dramatic end to an album that's full of drama, without the tiresome excess a healthy balance if you ask me. Watch your toes while I chairspeed back to the stereo to give it another spin. "}