{"label":" Shinglestreet","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/243/homepage_large.76fb329f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Appendix Out","title":"A Warm and Yeasty Corner EP","text":" Ali Roberts is the kind of guy you hope to have around if you ever find yourself stuck in a Scottish pub waiting for the rain to stop. Just put a guitar in his hands, keep the pints coming, and I imagine he could entertain you all night with songs and stories. Together with his band Appendix Out, Roberts has put out some of the best neofolk in recent years, in the vein of Pentangle meets Palace, without sounding too ironic or revivalistic. But he does seem to have a vast supply of traditional songs and cover tunes haunting the recesses of his mind all the same. Last year, he released an album's worth of English and Scottish folk standards under his own name called The Crook of My Arm. This EP, A Warm and Yeasty Corner, gathers five covers under the full banner of Appendix Out. While cynics may say this is just a timestall tactic in lieu of new original material from the band, when the results are this good, bring it on! The EP starts out with a song from Vashti Bunyan, a pastoral ballad called \"Window Over the Bay.\" Roberts' voice creaks and moans as if he's just returned from a long fishing voyage, and, together with the slow, rollicking pace of the song, the images of rest and contentment become heartbreakingly remote: the longing is palpable. In Bunyan's original, the song conveys a feeling of hippie idealism. Here it's much more forlorn, almost bleak. By the way, if your unfamiliar with Vashti Bunyan, by all means, seek her music out if you're a fan of Nick Drake and these days, who isn't? \"Sally Free and Easy\" is next, a song written by English folky Cyril Tawny, who's best known for sea chanteys like this (and particularly for this very song). The version here is a fairly straight reading of the old tune featuring some lovely double bass and piano accompaniment. Ewan Macoll's \"The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face\" is mostly just piano and Roberts' voice. Within the world of British folk, covering Macoll is kinda like covering Dylan everyone does it. Hell, artists as diverse as the Pogues and Zamfir (master of the par flute!) have done it. With that kind of range, you know a songwriter is touching on some deep, universal issues. The spare ambience created by this reading reminds me more of Bonnie Prince Billy's \"I See a Darkness\" each time I hear it. Next is kind of the oddball of the bunch: The Magnetic Fields' \"Josephine.\" By this point, it's high time for some sort of shift ir tone in the EP, and this song's postmodern wordings and distant orgar drone do the job. But it's quickly back to 60s British folkies, with probably the most recognizable track rounding things out. The Incredible String Band's \"A Very Cellular Song\" (which has nothing to do with cell phones, unless those kids were far more visionary then I give them credit for) is a singalong number, with but with one verse and lasting 4\\xBD minutes (though the original is something like twelve). It provides the perfect coda for this small, heartfelt collection, as Roberts and the full cast sing, \"The pure light within you guide your way on.\"A Warm and Yeasty Corner might not get you through the dark night of the soul, but it's enough to point you in the right direction. And at the very least, it's a fine way to kill some time as you wait for the storm to pass. "}