{"label":" Recommended","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2421/homepage_large.ad53ad6e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Bob Drake","title":"13 Songs and a Thing","text":" Musicians don't exist on desert islands, isolated from human contact, any more than other folks. This piece of (seeming) common sense sometimes gets lost in the shuffle when discussing the effects of music: It's often described in similar terms as a natural disaster \"it moved me\"; \"the music blew me away\"; \"it destroyed all my expectations\". Thus, the creators of the stuff are indirectly positioned as only semimortal figures, working \"magic\" with our hearts and souls or worse, the cult of celebrity claims their bodies entirely, elevating what was probably a humbling creative experience into the work of gods. And while that pays excellent tribute to the mysticism of inspiration, it probably distances the artists from the rest of the pack (i.e., us) more than necessary. Bob Drake plays distant music (literally, from the south of France), but apparently takes no pleasure in abstractions that might, in the hands of a lesser musician, quickly alienate an audience. An abashed fan of oldethyme pompasaurs like Yes and Uriah Heep, he rarely shies away from extroverted splashes of sound, be they cacophonous guitar solos or wailing vocal harmonies. Yet, these moments seem less like flashesinthepan than merely broader strokes on his palette. In fact, where you might expect his songs to erupt into classical arcana, his underlying forms appear to be closer to traditional folk, albeit murder ballads and nursery tale night beasts. It's almost as if Drake's relentless attention to detail and humility, even when obscured by a few layers of feedback, keeps whatever pretensions he has in check.13 Songs and a Thing is Drake's fifth solo record, and continues in a similarly eclectic vein as last year's excellent The Skull Mailbox and Other Horrors. However, where that album was a songcycle of short stories, 13 Songs doesn't have a running narrative to tie it together. Fans of his work shouldn't be disappointed, though, as per usual, there is no mistaking his sound. The opener \"Chase\", written by Dominic Frontiere (theme composer for the 60s horror show The Outer Limits) and arranged by Drake, would actually fit well on the last album, as its frenzied, claustrophobic terror is hammered home via an aggressive acoustic guitar jag and nervous violin. It's a junk symphony that would make as much sense coming from Tom Waits as Danny Elfman. Similarly, \"Ten for a Dime\" uses intricate guitar figures and bowed double bass to create an atmosphere not far from an Alfred Hitchcock soundtrack, yet Drake's later juxtaposition of strange bluegrass riffs and Mellotronsoaked goth place it in a realm of his own design. Acoustic textures lend understated warmth to most of this music, as do the omnipresent tradAmerican folk references. The fractured waltz \"In Case the Insulator Fails\" could almost be an outtake from O Brother, Where Art Thou were it not for the offhandedly dissonant asides from violin and electric guitar. It leads into the brief \"Griffin\", which is musically akin to Bela Bartok's take on The Beatles' \"I've Just Seen a Face\", but detailing Drake's erotic fascination with a museum statue places it well outside either folkpop or modern classical music. The most striking moments on 13 Songs come when comparisons are much harder to make. \"And the Sun\" is a gorgeous piece featuring distant classical piano and a barely audible gauze of ambient noise, punctuated by random bursts of radio static. It's an almost perfect realization of almost forgotten mental imagery, as if years of life and music have obscured the original beauty of the piano music and in fact, Drake notes that part of the piece was recorded in the early 80s. Guest vocalist Dick Verdult carries both \"Foam I\" and \"Rtuuf\" with throaty Spanish, and lends the former tune elegance not far removed from Paul Simon's buoyant work on Graceland. Of course, Drake throws in a cavernous echo and expansive, almost overburdened arrangement of deep bass and primal, thudding percussion to knock it off center. And then there's \"Building with Bones\", aka \"A Thing\": an epic backbreaker that sounds pretty close to the ground beneath my house caving in for about 13 straight minutes. Despite repeated demonstrations of idiosyncrasy and an apparent dedication to turning left when a right is expected, 13 Songs is hardly an exclusive experience. I'd argue that Drake might even be approaching a hybrid of folk and avantgarde music that includes the most engaging characteristics of both without ever really betraying one for the other. Maybe that leaves him alone in music circles (though I might make similar claims for the aforementioned Simon and Waits), but should be all the easier to pick his brand of noise from a crowd for listeners. Sometimes it doesn't pay to look for links to the outside world, and his tunes are inviting enough that it may never occur to you to do so anyway. "}