{"label":" Island","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2425/homepage_large.8a86a3fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Nick Drake","title":"Made to Love Magic","text":" The backside of Nick Drake's headstone, wedged deep into the earth of TanworthinArden's parish church graveyard, reads: \"Now we rise and we are everywhere.\" The words were penned by Drake in 1974; 30 years later, they seem jarringly prophetic. Like nearly all prematurely buried cult figures, Nick Drake is reinvented each time he is rediscovered. In 2000, the sheepish, astral musings of \"Pink Moon\" became synonymous with backing a Cabrio convertible out of a house party, sparking an unlikely boost in record sales and propelling Pink Moon towards platinum status nearly 26 years after Drake's death. But with each wellintentioned revival of interest, Nick Drake slips further and further out of reach, hopelessly martyred and codified, superceded and consumed by his own tragic context. Nick Drake has become: the 26yearold prophet, the diffident enigma, the tortured precursor to Kurt Cobain, the fallen hero, the folksingerasfolksymbol, the selfsacrificing patron saint of lonely, disaffected teenagers the One who died for our sins. Even now, being indoctrinated into the cult of Drake is stupidly easy. Line the unbearably poetic circumstances of Drake's death (swallowing a fatal handful of antidepressants, either deliberately or by accident) against the soft melancholy of his tiny canon, and witness a very specific kind of bedroom deity being birthed: Drake's three proper studio records form a bulletproof triumvirate, synergizing to create an impossibly satisfying (and telling) arc, riddled with prescient pullquotes and expectedly dynamic emotions. Given the irrefutable magnificence of what he left behind, it's always seemed perfectly logical to assume that every single thing Nick Drake ever did should be worth piles of attention. And really, who wants to know if it's not? Thus, it's only appropriate to approach each new Drake compilation with a bit of honest trepidation, and to be anxious about the sullying of an otherwise pristine recording career. Nick Drake wrote, recorded, and released three records between 1968 and his mysterious death in 1974, but the subsequent permutation of capitalistic yearning and superfan desperation saw Drake's discography significantly (and mercilessly) puffed up by a handful of dubious posthumous releases. Some of these efforts have been worthwhile (the excellent Time of No Reply, which rounded out the first reissue of the Fruit Tree box, and Heaven Is a Wildflower, both released in 1986), some renegade (the widely distributed TanworthinArden Home Recordings and Second Grace) and some completely superfluous (1994's sloppy Way to Blue, which unapologetically regurgitates, unchanged, ten of Heaven Is a Wildflower's fourteen tracks). In 1994, Drake's pioneering producer, Joe Boyd, promised Mojo: \"Everything releasable has been released.\" Compiled by engineer John Wood and former roommate Robert Kirby, Made to Love Magic is a footnote, a hiccup, a voyeuristic peepshow. It is not a revelation. Completists will revel in the resuscitation of rare/unheard tracks, including two Cambridgeera dorm demos (\"Mayfair\", \"River Man\"), outtakes from the Five Leaves Left sessions (\"Joey\", \"Clothes of Sand\"), remastered stereo versions of the mono mixes that appeared on Time of No Reply (\"Rider on the Wheel\", \"BlackEyed Dog\", \"Hanging on a Star\"), two tracks with strings reorchestrated and rerecorded by Kirby (\"I Was Made to Love Magic\", \"Time of No Reply\"), an early rendition of \"Three Hours\" (with Drake backed by an anonymous flautist and percussionist Rebop Kwaku Baah, later of Can and Traffic), and even causal fans will be anxious to hear the recently discovered Drake original, \"Tow the Line.\" Recorded just four months before Drake's death, \"Tow the Line\" has been loudly touted as the last song Drake ever committed to tape, and his pale, listless vocals do little to detract from the artistontheedge theatrics so implicit in that tag the song would fit neatly on Pink Moon, its frail lyrics and stark strums easily maintaining the fatalistic mood of Drake's final record. \"Tow the Line\" may be Made to Love Magic's big selling point, but it's hardly the only attraction: Robert Kirby's sprawling new string arrangement on the title track, while conceptually awkward (and vaguely disingenuous), proves a marked improvement over the maudlin squealings available on previous versions. Still, Kirby can do little to stop \"I Was Made to Love Magic\" from sounding like a ridiculous, fawning homage to Walt Disney, all maudlin, unconvincing swoons and gooey swells, with Drake goofily crooning the song's title. Despite the best intentions of its creators, Made to Love Magic feels disjointed and weird, and even the most mundane of improvements somehow still seem contrived the new, stereo mix of \"Black Eyed Dog\" shatters the stark precariousness of the original, wherein Drake, barely singing, howled blankly: \"I'm growing old/ And I don't wanna know/ I'm growing old/ And I wanna go home.\" Bolstered by a thick and ominous slathering of tape hiss, the bootleg version of \"Black Eyed Dog\" violently suggested, however inadvertently, that Drake might not make it all the way through the song and that tension only ever added to its morose appeal. In some ways, Made to Love Magic nobly attempts to strip Drake of his signifiers, and to cut him loose from his cross. But broadcasting Drake's comparably mediocre drippings won't alter his deification, at least not significantly. All it really does is muddy up the water a bit. "}