{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/244/homepage_large.bb10ebe0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Appendix Out","title":"The Night is Advancing","text":" Despite originating from completely different set of social, economic, and class conditions, there are a few intriguing similarities between America's folk music tradition and Britain's folk music tradition. American folk music traditionally addresses death, violence, poverty, and sex. British folk music traditionally addresses death, violence, royalty and sex (with cool accents). Appendix Out frontman Alasdair \"Ali\" Roberts is frequently referred to as the \"British Will Oldham.\" Taking into account the parallels between the musical traditions upon which Oldham is building and the musical traditions upon which Roberts is building, this statement seems markedly accurate. Lyrically, American folk music is a decidedly rougher affair than a good deal of English folk music. Will Oldham sings about cocks; Alasdair Roberts sings about \"nightshade.\" And yet, musically and lyrically, one gets a sense that both Oldham and Roberts are lovers of their respective countries' musical histories. Further comparisons between the two singers can be drawn simply because the two have very similar voices. Alasdair Roberts never attempts the kind of loud, highpitched yelps that Oldham has been known to let loose. Indeed, Appendix Out seems to rely much more heavily on subdued, meditative beauty than on pure, raw emotion. Thankfully, the comparison is completely valid where it matters most The Night is Advancing is an excellent, stirring, and deeply affecting album. \"A Path to Our Beds\" sets the tone for the record, with acoustic guitars swirling in stereo, a lilting bassline, and a constant, hypnotic drumbeat. Ali Roberts' voice is warm and appealing, but quavers with a hint of awkwardness. It stays at a nearmumble throughout The Night is Advancing, adding to the overall spare and lovely tone of the record. Many songs on The Night is Advancing are obviously deeply rooted in the British folk tradition. \"The Groves of Lebanon,\" one of the most stunningly gorgeous tracks on the album, contains highly folkinflected lines like, \"Your hair is like a royal tapestry/ Fragrant as the groves of Lebanon.\" Again, the backing is provided largely by acoustic guitar and muffled drums and bass. But while the album is highly steeped in the folk music tradition, it doesn't limit itself to the conventional instruments of folk. Throughout the album, faint flourishes of electronics and keyboards can be heard. These elements remain slightly buried within the songs themselves, allowing them to enhance without ever intruding. Perhaps the most impressive track on The Night is Advancing is one of its most uncharacteristic, the 7+ minute \"Fortified Jackdaw Grove,\" a haunting epic built upon oftdissonant, jazzy piano, and an extended bass drone. Horns squeal almost agonizingly, mimicking the uncertainty of Roberts' voice. As the track nears its fifth minute, a strange drumbeat enters the mix, contrasting the stillpresent piano, and completely altering the feel of the track. It's a moment of musical nearperfection, and certainly suggests that Appendix Out are often at their best when they incorporate some pretty outthere song structures into their largely traditional music. So perhaps the Oldham comparison isn't entirely accurate The Night is Advancing is a much more meditative, deliberate affair than something Oldham would release. Thus, The Night is Advancing is an album that won't necessarily knock your socks off, but will certainly leave you feeling cozy and warm in them. "}