{"label":" Clone","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2436/homepage_large.c3de1720.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Drexciya","title":"Grava 4","text":" Just when I got used to the idea of submariner Drexcyens living their life on the ocean floor, the offspring of slaves drowned in transatlantic crossings, they've left the earthly realm for a voyage into deep space. Grava 4 is one of the seven \"storms\" recorded as part of a cryptic plan that was to bring Detroit's Drexciya to its next stage of development (a project that founding member James Stinson sadly did not live to see completed he died last year), and the explicit theme on this record is celestial travel. Track titles like \"Astronomical Guidepost\" and \"700 Light Years from Earth\" combined with a sleeve that maps the tracks onto a map of some distant planet's night sky help set the mood, but the music sticks closely to the established Drexciya sound, which happens to adapt quite well to a space motif. \"Cascading Celestial Giants\" eases us into this cold, barren world with a recurring sample of a men's chorus, the kind of sequenced bleeps that planetariums played between shows in the early 70s, and a sweeping synth melody that announces, \"You are embarking on a journey...\" It's melodramatic as hell, but in the best possible way, introducing the album with a theatrical flair. The following \"Powers of the Deep\" is a good example of what I'm loving about Drexciya: how each of a track's individual elements seems so discrete and separate, and yet somehow it all congeals into a listenable whole. The percussion is stiff as ever; drum machines in this world are meant to dispassionately scoop endless units of time from the universe. There are no breaks, no fills, little syncopation, and the beats rarely drop out. But in and around the unforgiving techno and electro beats, electronic sounds swirl unpredictably. In contrast to the most machinelike beats imaginable, the synths in Drexciya often show a human hand at the switch. The surges in volume and odd filters don't seem applied by an unthinking algorithm; the patterns seem too well timed to fit the arc of the track, to be controlled by anything but a brain.  This contrast and complement between man and machine, where the purpose of each in the music seems so clear, is part of what makes Drexciya so special. Diego Rivera painted a series of murals in the 1930s, known as the \"Detroit Industry\" murals, the most famous of which captures something similar to what Drexciya seem to have gone for. It portrays a massive factory scene, with dozens of men working in and around allconsuming machinery, and the way it's painted, it's hard to tell where the machines leave off and the people begin. The line from the steel edge of a blast furnace merges gracefully into the back of the man shoveling fuel into the belly.  Sonically, a brittle, aggressive tone presides through much of Grava 4. On the fourth track (which might be titled \"Grava\" but isn't listed on the sleeve) everything is overdriven and harsh, from the gurgly Speak'n'Spell pattern out front to the relentless banging happening in the background somewhere. The \"thwack\" of the beats on \"Drexcyen R.E.S.T. Principle\" feel like a slap across the face, and the menacing vibe is not allayed by the stalking, angry bass pattern.  There's occasional lightness \"700 Million Light Years from Earth\" is a nice slice of the kind of warm, downtempo electro found on Lifestyle of the Laptop Cafe, a project recorded for Warp Records by members of Drexciya under the guise The Other People Place but darkness is pretty much the rule. Life on earth is ugly, and escape from the depths of the ocean into the heavens turned out to be no escape at all, but at least Drexciya got to tell us about it.  "}