{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2438/homepage_large.b15bf0af.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Dennis Driscoll","title":"Voices in the Fog","text":" Twee. Like Freddy, Jason, and Michael Myers, it just won't die. You could soak twee in gasoline, chain it to a 747 and fly it straight into an active volcano, but you'd still come home to find that skinny white guy dressed in thrift store clothes on your doorstep, pining, \"Like a comet in the sky, my love was there for you/ But when you left me for that guy, it crashed into the moon,\" from behind hornrimmed glasses. People will tell you otherwise, but twee is as enduring and monotonous a blight on indie rock as numetal is on America's radio playlists. Propped up by manoftheminute Phil Elvrum in the late 90s, Dennis Driscoll has whipped off dozens of postJonathan Richman, postBeat Happening ditties, but slight, sappy twochord twang has been recycled ad nauseam since The Twee Decade ended in 1993. From 1983 to the demise of Beat Happening, a handful of other likeminded groups from every corner of the world offered honest, somewhat ironic rejoinders to the machismo of punk and arena rock, all operating in genuine obscurity. As Calvin Johnson quipped in regard to this cassette revolution, they won, and in large part constructed the framework allowing for Sub Pop, Nirvana, and transitively, Candlebox and Creed. Granted, Calvin can't be blamed for all of that, but K Records continues to support its now spoiledrotten child, releasing any number of stereotypically cuteandcuddly folk records, most different in name only. The fifth track on Voices in the Fog, \"Fall in Love\", is a note for note ripoff of Beat Happening's \"The Other Side\". A more succinct example of The Problem With Twee is impossible: the label that brought you the song in the first place is content to record (Calvin Johnson produced the album) and release its secondrate knockoff. K's fiercely local, proOlympia policy is its undoing: the label is releasing music made by kids that grew up imitating their bands and going to all of their shows. This clique atmosphere hangs heavy over the proceedings. Fans are trying like freshman to become the seniors they dreamed about hanging out with, and there's nothing easier to mimic than the dashedoff, childish rhymes and anglophile uniform (scarf, overcoat, loafers) that twee has broadcast for the last twenty years. The question is as with all recent material from the genre: What makes this record different enough from the dozens of other bedroom folk cassettes being handed out at Olympia shows as to warrant international release? Dennis Driscoll has another problem: There are two Dennis Driscolls working the underground music and art world. One lives in New York (Inwood, specifically), a secondgeneration beat poet/author who travels the same road as Spalding Gray. He's easily as wellknown and regarded as the scarfwearing neophyte scuffling his feet and shrugging his way into the hearts of maternally bent teenage fawns all over the Pacific Northwest, and if Voicess in the Fog is any indication, he could sue for defamation of character. "}