{"label":" Hanson","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2446/homepage_large.d769c99d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"Kevin Drumm","title":"Land of Lurches","text":" I have no interest in dissembling my authority to review this album, so let me present a brief admonition: I've been at it, and I can't think of a reasonable way to review this \"power electronics\" stuff few artists divide music fans like Whitehouse, Maurizio Bianchi, and Kevin Drumm. So I'm in a predicament, then. If I write that I think a few of the microtones on Kevin Drumm's new album unintentionally support superfluous pitches that merely slow down the piece's progress, most people would probably either note that the album \"sounds like a dishwasher\" or, for the kids that dig it, \"sounds like some alien, fuckin' PCP on crack, vitriolic, madcap lunacy minimalismmetal.\" And both of those are valid arguments. There's really not a lot of room for specific criticisms in this sort of music. I'll do my best. If last year's Sheer Hellish Miasma was an entrance into finality, a pummeling to death, the gateway to the burdened grave, Land of Lurches is traveling music. Sheer Hellish Miasma was the Bergman film; this is the roadtrip one. The first piece begins with some ominous jackhammer, the inevitable foundation of all verifiable noise, but then expands to the very atmospheric conditions of the record. Those reverberations aren't from some loud machinery, but the very texture of the air. Some clear, almost serene, tones emerge under it, cutting through the mechanistic terra firma, and ascending beyond it. While Kevin Drumm typically plunders straight to the earth's core, this is more astral stuff. The antecedents aren't Norwegian death and/or improvisation, but classical composition. It's one of those epic incursions into otherness, reminiscent of Ligeti or Stockhausen. The whole time I was thinking of Ligeti's \"Lux Aeterna\", which, in Kubrick's 2001, soundtracks the arrival of the monolith. This may be a \"land of lurches,\" but it's inevitably progressing towards something; it's the echoing of the creaks of the shuttle, the apprehension of knowing we're going to unknown zones at an aweinspiring velocity. The track's second \"movement\" apparently takes place after the initial dread of the launch. It sounds like clown laughs if clowns had gear changes on a manual transmission. It's threatening, but also vastly lighter (frolicsome, nearly) than anything on Sheer Hellish Miasma. In the final movement, the initial jackhammer returns, as well as the clear tones, noise with a refrain, with composition and balance. The second piece is comedic. It's got a hell of a 4/4 beat, some circus music, a sort of chorus, and distorted static squeals, and it ends with the saturnine stomp and brassy trunks of elephants. And then comes the final track on this 30minute LP, the most musique concrete of the bunch. It's a quieter affair airplane engines and the like but it turns, rather unexpectedly, into the best Martin Denny song never written, the Jungle Cruise intersplicefoliatecrossed with those spectral haunted forests from fairy tales. Rabid parrots are going off all over the place and the concentrated sap of the maple trees is TINGED WITH BLOOD. I'm ambivalent towards the end, though. I thought it was overly sentimental when I considered it as four minutes of rain, and I thought it was revolutionary when I considered it as four minutes of static. To quote the back of an LP sleeve popular in Greenwich Village, \"the choice, dear listener, is up to you.\" There wasn't really any reason to read this review. (I should have told you earlier, I know, but it's too late for such qualms now.) You people are smart, enterprising arbiters of taste and you could probably tell straight away if you'd like or hate this after you got to the \"dishwasher\" and \"minimalismmetal\" lines. All I can guarantee is that this will further ruin your hearing, expand your options, and generally disrupt the populace. "}