{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2465/homepage_large.2983e3d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Duran Duran","title":"Singles 80-85","text":" Join me as I machete through the thick, sweaty greenery of an undisclosed tropical setting. I am alone, the rest of my party having retreated at the sight of some mysterious statues we uncovered about three clicks back. I move faster unassisted. Pressing through the bush, I stumble upon a yawning blackness, the open maw of a darkened cave. The weak canopyfiltered light penetrates not more than a few feet inside. I pause to check a worn parchment map, remove my panama hat, and wipe the sweat from my brow. I am Harrison Ford, I am Brendan Fraser, I am... well, I'm Simon LeBon. Let's talk metaphors here, people. The treasure I'm looking to rescue is the street cred of Duran Duran as an influence. And the almost certainly boobytrapfilled cave possessing it: the prison of VH1 docunugget kitsch. Oh sure, right now Duran Duran are on the sunny side of the retro carousel, what with The Faint gothing up their sound, The Rapture channeling their spirit through \"Sister Savior,\" and !!! apprenticing at their art of the assshake. And yet, as the fickle gears turn, it's virtually guaranteed we'll once again find ourselves in an era of overt synthophobia, and Duran Duran will once again be relegated to punchline status. While Duran Duran is probably the first band to come to most anyone's mind when synthpop is the topic of discussion, such an honor has both positive and (usually) negative connotations. To lump them in with the dated remnants of the Vice City crowd is a bit unfair, however; unlike the Korgheavy environs of peers Frankie Goes to Hollywood and A Flock of Seagulls, Duran Duran didn't lean so heavily on the keyboard technology of the day. Rather, they created a unique casserole of club influences, disco basslines, popcrossover melodies, and frontman charisma that, in an ideal world, would be utterly fadresistant. This new box set containing the group's early singles is not the most convincing evidence around for this thesis, what with the band's masterpiece Rio being about as tight a bundle of premium synthpop as this world has ever seen. Nor is it exactly the most concise way of proving my point to a newbie, weighing in as it does at a hefty baker's dozen of discs. But with each single only comprising three or four songs, filling out the headliner with a Bside and a dance mix or two, the set is only a Bond theme over a mere three hours' length, and distilled to its key moments, it stands as a morethanworthy companion to the band's essential first phase. In terms of Asides, the box contains almost all the true essentials, cutting it off before the adult contemporary pandering and lineup changes. The band's more dancederived debut LP lends the catwalk struts \"Planet Earth\" and \"Girls on Film\", but it's the early single version of Rio's \"My Own Way\" that steals the show, full of uptempo disco strings like Saturday Night Fever in fastforward.Rio, of course, was where it all came together, and singles don't come much stronger than \"Hungry Like the Wolf\" or the album's title track. Both proudly show off how Duran Duran was a band, not just a synthesizer: \"Wolf\" threads bubbly keys around a slashing guitar riff; \"Rio\" drops a surprisingly hard funk groove behind one of the few times a saxophone solo (as confusingly ubiquitous in the 80s as Mr. T) actually worked. By the time we reach Seven and the Ragged Tiger, the Taylor trio + 2 had cooled off their hot streak a bit, with only \"The Reflex\" living up to their peak. \"The Wild Boys\" resides infamously as the only truly bad Aside of the thirteen, LeBon straining so hard to express just how wild these boys are that his voice outreaches its range. Fortunately, the finale is reserved for \"A View to a Kill\", one of the better Bond songs of the Moore years, where the group chops up the fanfare of John Barry's score in a (dare I say it?) glitchtype manner. The assorted dance mixes included are also a perk, excising the majority of the vocals and stretching out the songs to the sixtoeightminute mark. Most accomplish this through simply slowing unfolding the instrumental elements, allowing one to appreciate the gospel choir of \"Union of the Snake\" or the hexagonal drumpads of \"Is There Something I Should Know?\" independent of their formerly busy surroundings. Not too many of the mixes turn out significantly more danceable than the originals in fact, some are so busy showing off the song's inner machinery that they're less likely to get the floor crowded, but in sounding a whole heck of a lot like Out Hud, they'll still be greatly appreciated by today's community of laptop jockeys. Still with me? 'Cause there are Bsides to discuss as well, though some (\"Secret Oktober\", a weak cover of \"Fame\") were better off forgotten. A strange mulligan of Rio's bizarre sapphirebullet synth closer \"The Chauffeur\" recasts the song as an unplugged Flamenco number, while a live take on UK cult hit \"Make Me Smile\" seems to be included just to show off the band's ability to attract screaming girls circa 1984. \"Like an Angel\" and \"Faith in this Colour\" are the real archeological finds, though, the first a midtempo predecessor to \"Lonely in Your Nightmare\", the second instrumental \"Rockit\" electro begging to be sampled. Halting the collection at the point when the lineup underwent its first of many changes has the unfortunate side effect of locking out \"Notorious\", but it's a toughbutfair tradeoff for a set that ignores the group's VH1friendly incarnation, unlike the other hits collections available. There's also no denying the thirteen discs of Singles 8085 are, in true 80s style, a bit on the excessive side, but the intensity and depth of focus on the band's most critical years is a welcome supplement to the LPs in arguing the band's eternal relevance beyond video innovation. And if digging into these 12\" artifacts still leaves you unconvinced that Duran Duran were standard bearers for an untapped well of danceable rock, I'll just have to turn over some tables in slow motion, LeBonstyle, and dance into the fire while you sit and mope. "}