{"label":" Townsend","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2468/homepage_large.711bd23d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"The Durutti Column","title":"Someone Else's Party","text":" Once suicidal, always neurotically wrought and ghastly skinny, Vini Reilly was Tony Wilson's prized opening act during the Factory Records revolution in late 70s Manchester. An astonishing, unique guitar prodigy, Reilly's early efforts at singing overshadowed his more obvious talent and resulted in a poignant recollection for the film 24 Hour Party People: the film's lone, recurring representative for the music press counters Tony Wilson's consideration of Reilly as \"provocative\" with \"provocatively poor.\" Someone much more famous than Vini Reilly once said \"I just wasn't made for these times.\" It's not true in his case, but two slight turns of the phrase make equal sense: as the Durutti Column, Vini Reilly as much made these times as he was made for them. Delaypedaled bedroom dream pop has come to dominate the underground music scene over the last five to ten years especially in America and while the genre isn't egregiously indebted to the Durutti Column, Vini Reilly's work since the very late 70s predicted its compact, often timid atmospheres. Of course, most of the sounds Vini Reilly made were documented in semi and professional studios at first, as a oneoff experiment with Martin Hannett, one of the best producers of all time but his second album LC (1981) was recorded on a simple fourtrack cassette deck at home (while it was slightly padded in the studio, the tape hiss is intact). Relative to how software and effects have moved studios inside portable computers, LC was among the first crisp, professionally released recordings made cheaply at home. And few artists have employed samples in so overtly, simply, yet artistically sound a manner as Reilly did in the late 80s, another prediction of trends to come. Friend to Ian Curtis and New Order, a borderline New Age celebrity within European muso circles and the creative force behind much of Morrissey's Viva Hate, Vini Reilly has unleashed untold volumes of music over the last twentyfive years. Delving into modern classical composition with 1984's Without Mercy, his lowkey reputation as an independent auteur was cemented with 1988's Vini Reilly, a masterpiece recorded in just twenty days' time after finishing Viva Hate with Morrissey and Stephen Street. After a decade of intriguing, steady growth, Reilly's standing was somewhat shaken by the danceflavored early90s Factory finale Obey the Time and a house remix of one of its tracks; like everyone at Factory, Reilly was affected by the Madchester explosion. The 1995 doubleLP Sex and Death returned to the usual fare, and though Stephen Street's weighty production helped, its overreaching drama and overtly \"summary\" quality felt oppressively tomelike. A pendulum swing from that staid set, Time Was Gigantic...When We Were Kids was far too eclectic and mixed of purpose to make much impact, but the devastating 8minute \"Twenty Trees\" remains among Reilly's finest, most cinematic works. As his mother's health failed, Reilly turned to his constant outlet, and recorded Someone Else's Party at home while mourning her death. Centered by loss and presenttense mortality, Reilly has laid to rest the distended distractions of his 90s work, and on opener \"Love is a Friend\" seems sure to reclaim the glory of Vini Reilly. A danceable, wet drum machine grounds his always echoing vocals, and his guitar lines rival the best tracks on LC. It's all offset by a once triumphant, now depressingly nostalgic brass hit, sampled alongside a showboat pop star's boast, \"Top forty!\" In his boldest move since his controversial late80s sampling, Reilly solos over Rebekah del Rio's Spanish rendition of Roy Orbison's \"Crying\" (\"Llorando\", from Mulholland Drive), calling the proxy collaboration \"Spanish Lament\". While it works beautifully, Reilly reveals the simplicity of his approach too honestly: he could turn just about any existing melody into a Durutti Column song by soloing over it and that's an effortless proposition at this point. \"Somewhere\" and \"Remember\" return to the same poppy beats as \"Love is a Friend\", but bear an odd similarity to onehit wonder Chris O'Connor's Primitive Radio Gods. The simplicity of O'Connor's only worthwhile ditty is something implicit in all of Reilly's work his tunes aren't flukes of inspired genuity, and are far more accomplished but bedroomborn pop jaunts like this are in many ways a purer side of the same coin O'Connor moaned about in his garagerecorded mid90s heartbreaker. Many of these tracks are reworked from other arrangements in recent years. The hokey keyboards in \"Vigil\" are simpler but equally awkward as in their original form, \"For Rachel\" from Time Was Gigantic. \"Drinking Time\", though, nicely retreats from the painfully straight balladry of that album's \"Drinking Song\", excising drums in favor of the trickling guitar we're used to. \"No More Hurt\" and \"Woman\" are the only notable failures, the former jumping into classic rock by way of Madchester, the latter a toosimple loop experiment you'll swear is based around the first seconds of Duran Duran's \"The Reflex\". Unsurprisingly, \"Requiem for My Mother\" is the emotional centerpiece of this album, a devastating lament that in its sloweddown flamenco rhythm and initial melody immediately recalls Andy Summers' nylon work on The Police classic \"Bring on the Night\". A midpass wash draws you into the simple, hoenst refrain, \"Lay down dear mother/ Lay down and rest your head.\" Like all of Reilly's albums since the mid90s, Someone Else's Party is lengthy, and overwhelmingly detailed. It's also \"like all of Reilly's albums,\" which was once a common complaint the delayed, neverending flourishes veer into monotony, even for his fans but after the disastrous experimentation of recent years, regression makes for welcome relief. Reilly's obsessive, almost obstinate use of watery chorus and delay hasn't changed in the slightest since 1979 in fact I doubt that he's moved a knob on his pedals and that's frustrated him, resulting in missteps like Obey the Time, Time was Gigantic... and Rebellion. Until now, he seemed unable to pull the disparate pieces together. Enjoy his presence of mind while it lasts, however maudlin the cause. "}