{"label":" Epitaph","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13344/homepage_large.a3fceaea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Dwarves","title":"Come Clean","text":" Here at Pitchfork, we do our best to take an unbiased approach to music criticism. But, like it or not, there are a few things that will never, ever receive over an 8.5, barring an act of government or God. These include, but are not limited to: 1. Promise Ring side projects 2. Nazi electronica 3. \"Comeback\" albums by washedup '70s rockers 4. New Elephant 6 groups dedicated to the sounds of dying rodents 5. Disco revivalism 6. Overproduced threeorfourchord punk records If you so much as snickered at #6, you can probably imagine what Come Clean sounds like: trite, overused guitar progressions, incompetent pentatonic solos, and seriously fuckedup lyrics. Over the course of Come Clean's 21 minutes, you'll hear tales of 14yearolds who complain about not getting fucked properly, rape, and everyone's favorite tits! Maybe when the Dwarves started out in the mid'80s, this was unique and shocking. But at this point, it really doesn't have all that much impact. It's all been said before. Shit, the Dwarves themselves have been saying it for over 10 years, and even they've said it better. If you strip away all the gimmick from the Dwarves, you're pretty much left with an average punk/pop band. Come Clean uses the same old chord progressions you've heard on every other punk/pop album. Come to think of it, the Dwarves' subject matter might be the one thing that's been keeping them from having any kind of mainstream success. If they were singing about being 20 instead of fucking 14yearolds, they could hit it big! Then again, they probably haven't been 20 for at least 60 years. But thrashy, poppy tunes like \"How It's Done\" and \"Better be Women\" sound like they could have been written by Rancid, or another of today's generic Clashworshipping punkpop bands. While this stuff is immensely unoriginal, it somehow rarely reaches the point at which it becomes painful to listen to. When it does, of course, it ain't pretty. Take \"Deadly Eye,\" an insufferable, Kid Rockish Dwarves theme song, or \"Act Like You Know,\" a disjointed blast of fuzz that will leave you craving the kindhearted fun of \"I Want You to Die.\" So right now you're probably wondering, \"If it's so bad, why give it a 6.0?\" Well, there are two reasons for that. First of all, interesting sounds do occasionally pop up amidst the otherwise trite instrumentation. A lot of the tracks on Come Clean contain a few welcome seconds of synthesizer noises, and \"Way Out\" features a pretty cool vocoder introduction. (Hey, I didn't say it was original.) But these are just minor details. When taken on the merits of its music alone, Come Clean barely warrants a 4. The one thing that really pulls the album out from the depths of complete mediocrity is the fact that, unlike a lot of today's more popular acts, the Dwarves fully embrace the role of fuckedup punk rockers. Whereas watereddown punk/pop groups like Blink 182 appear \"nude\" on MTV with their genitals conveniently blurred, the Dwarves have no reservations about whipping out their dicks. Every aspect of Come Clean seems designed for the sole purpose of pissing off your parents. And in the end, isn't that what punk rock is all about? "}