{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2482/homepage_large.9e6c5154.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Dosh","title":"Dosh","text":" Martin Dosh's solo debut is so personal that I feel like I know the guy from just one listen. So far, I'm picturing a hyperactive fivearmed robot playing a toy drumkit, loaded up with unnecessary lights running up his arms and chest. Dosh, best known until now as Andrew \"Fog\" Broder's drummer, has made a record that's exhilaratingly dense, mixing live drums with beats and synths to show off both the precise production and the dismal attention span that leapfrogs through the album. Take \"India India\": the melody unfurls with a steady, sunstroked ease, like a travelogue theme song, but underneath, the electronic percussion sparks and pulses impatiently, too wired to take in the sights. Or \"If I Could Sing\", which is soaked with gin and dust so as to echo a historical jazz club recording: Dosh stumbles over himself hitting the drums, yet he doesn't obstruct the piano from playing its simple, wistful melody. He consistently tempers these conflicts in the careful mix and nervously balanced arrangements. Given that Dosh is a drummer, it's no surprise that the beats and percussion lead most of the tracks. But even if he hadn't included synths and keyboards, he varies the arrangement with a toychest of instruments, and all this gear gives him a giddy preschool edge. You've got the regular drumkit and live electronic percussion, with drumstrikes that have analog fuzziness but can cut off with digital precision. The beats flurry past and then drop out the second he's done with them; and they range from pyrotechnic thwacks to the nursery school sounds of a tiny xylophone or twinkling toy percussion sets, real or synthesized. By contrast, the compositions are all of a piece: they're upbeat and charming, with playful, almost sentimental melodies mostly rendered on synth (but check the pianoled \"If I Could Sing\" for the most sweetly nostalgic and hummable tune). Twothirds of the way through you sense the repetition, and some tracks like \"Song for Zelbert Moore\" almost have a void at their center. The drawnout organ chords and disrupted female vocals on \"Forgot Myself\" close the record with some drama, but endtoend the tone should be more varied. From all the distraction and noise on the record, you could get the idea that most of the pleasure of listening to it lies in the sheer stimulation that there's a lot of fascinating activity with nothing to support it. But the album's excitement actually comes from the tension between its surface and structure. Each track sounds careful but chaotic, simple but extreme, as Dosh shines the spotlight on himself and then dissolves into a dozen layers of movement. More than a drum recital or a set of nice tunes, Dosh's debut is a showcase where he can craft meticulous tracks and then blitz them with spontaneous joy. "}