{"label":" Bad Man","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2485/homepage_large.010c6ab7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Dave Derby","title":"Even Further Behind","text":" Even Further Behind Dave Derby's solo, postDambuilders, nonBrilliantine debut is a quasidesperate explanation of manto country incompatibility and perpetual misplacement. As a home, Dave Derby's America consistently fails: it's a place rife with internal conflict, wide, faltering landscapes and fiery east/west oppositions; its myths don't deliver and yield startling anticlimaxes. It's American optimism gone awry, a pulsing mess of searing concrete, fickle girls, empty rooms in Manhattan, Brooklyn moons, and nervous breakdowns in California. Sometimes explicit (see Derby repeatedly cooing \"I'm just bored/ With the U.S.A,\") and oddly evasive, Even Further Behind is Derby's big, throbbing shot at catharsis, a vehicle for lamenting the impossibility of making his America work, of channeling slow, awkward detachment into a collection of soft, round pop songs. With loads of acoustic strumming and tender backing vocals (fold in the occasional lap or pedal steel, keyboard, cello, and violin, contributed by one of Derby's many collaborators), Even Further Behind is based at least musically on straightforward, time tested folkpop principles: opener \"Middle Class Hero\" is a jumpy, halfwhispered guitar platform punctuated by tangled vocal melodies, while \"Still Bored\" is a subdued, defeated meditation on apathy, Derby muttering \"If I seem removed/ Does that make it OK?\" over a craggy layer of scraping guitar strings and steady, gentle percussion. There are waves and lulls, verses and choruses, rises and falls all the pleasant chords and perfectly keyed singing you'd expect from an earnest, confessional, guywithguitar venture. Derby doesn't break this formula often, but when he does creep away from singersongwriter weeping, it's a compelling and surprisingly convincing leap: \"You're My Plus One\" is a loud, twominute distorted mess, with Derby's usually temperate vocals becoming lecherous and squeaky, his previously solemn guitarstroking going brazen and wild. For the most part, each track on Even Further Behind reflects Derby's itchy discord with time and place, flitting from tired to sad to temporarily pissed off \"You're My Plus One\", with its fleeting inyourface growl is the perfect embodiment of a momentary strike back, an adrenaline fueled, overbeforeitstarted jab at the air right in front of you.  There are some trying quirks. Derby's relentless sentimentality can become tedious (overwrought admissions, unless interrupted by a few bursts of perspective or some compelling skirmishes, inevitably wane), and certain lyrics could use rethinking (\"The Dream Is Over\" offers the redundant \"Once I was in love with my one true love,\" while \"You're My Plus One\" has the inexplicable \"UV lights/ Hydroponic entity/ Got a sonic alchemy\"). Likewise, Derby's penchant for fading everything out starts to feel lazy by midway through, a gooey copout, a quick fix for some otherwise hardtowrite endings; it's a statement of indifference, a songwriting tic that starts to reflect, perhaps unintentionally, the lethargic lyrical content of his songs.  Thom Monahan's production is evident. Even Further Behind has the same lulling consistency of other Monahanproduced records see recent work by the Pernice Brothers and Lilys and the record is infused with an airiness that immediately convinces you of its buoyancy, lets you think it would float in water. Still, there's a darkness skulking here, the often unspoken pressure of being mislaid and disproportioned, a notquitedefinable sense of disparity that messes with things, disabling any chance at complete comfort. Derby doesn't exactly find the perfect way to isolate and translate that tension, but, somehow, it still lurks in the room, wispy and disembodied, long after this record ends.  "}