{"label":" Eclipse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2491/homepage_large.127d5c3d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Double Leopards","title":"Halve Maen","text":" Nigh on a decade, I have been trying to figure out what the fuck I took that fateful night. Cloyingly labeled as a \"pharmaceutical hallucinogen,\" a handful of pills opened portals to the most intense, frighteningly realistic phantasms I've ever experienced. One symptom of overdose, as the Pharmaceutical Handbook explained so succinctly the morning after, was that every electrical appliance malfunctioned in my presence: the LCD displays on my watch and alarm clock were helpless brambles of blinking bars of broken time. The carpet breathed and rippled its fibers. The walls sweated. I continually had the physical sensation of having something clenched in my grip, yet looking down, my hands were always empty. I bring this trip up because I think the Double Leopards (Mike, Maya, Marcia, and Chris) might have ingested the same shit. At the very least, they show similar symptoms on their second album for Eclipse. Housed in a dark and heavy sleeve, replete with an Indian skull and foreboding forest branches, it opens into a gatefold that evokes a satellite dishaddicted Bridget Riley illusion. Halve Maen is sprawled across two heavy discs, the only format through which the finest, most oblique musical messages can properly be conveyed. I am tempted to shove this in alongside such shadowy double albums as Wickham & Young's Lake, The Dead C's Harsh 70s Reality, Charalambides' Market Square, and TwentySix's This Skin Is Rust, but even those gave you a little breathing room now and then; Halve Maen smothers all light from the getgo as it burrows into the bowels of the earth below. Very tactile from the first needledrop, the everyday objects at the old loft space move of their own volition, at the edges of the feverish eyes. Household items like chord organs, plastic toys, and wind chimes suddenly lurch to the fore during \"The Fatal Affront\", before all the room's paraphernalia disintegrates into the more solemn and murky affair, \"Druid Spectre\". Here appears a drum more akin to the undead pounding at a cardboard door, somehow thudding along from beyond the grave with an elongated guitar. Side B gets swallowed by \"A Hemisphere in Your Hair\", which is time enough for a perm or other long scalp treatment. On this track, time is stretched and lulled until finally being rendered meaningless, and the listening brain is melted in slow undulations of sinewaves, primitive swirls of effects, bowed strings, prayer bowls, Melodica, and otherworldly drones. Small shivers of cricketlike feedback rise and fall with the slow, labored breathing of the beast, as if the inhaled pink goo from The Abyss were replaced with Graffix bong scrapings. The rattles that arise nearer the center of the spindle give the proceedings the woozy feel of an ancient ceremony coming to an end. Turns out we're only halfway there, though, and from this point forth, the travail gets veritably muddy, the group dynamic verging on unconsciousness. Discombobulation and a heavy, pervasive dread of being very lost permeates this record. \"The Forest Outlaws\" spins the tape, midséance, into a paralyzing bout of selfinflicted ether damage. A blustery whitenoise wind blows through the bundled layers of guitar and organ, freezing up the gears on the Leopards' zamboni right at the innercircle of the inferno, where it's always most frigid and frightening. The last side is given over to \"The Secret Correspondence 1 & 2\", plopping us into the vertiginous tides of the Dead Sea, where the silty, unseen bottom is stirred up something fierce. Cymbals are struck but quickly sink below the briny waters. Tremors of ghostly orchestras are constantly conjured by the guitars, a mass grave of vindicative strings that howl and die only to be resurrected for the finale. The instruments and processed moans of the group commune with a far more surly and slurred spiritual world than previously glimpsed, heavily sedated and hovering with a menacing glint just at the threshold of sanity. As it all slips away at record's end, I'm left questioning the mental stability and halflife of this trip. What I believed to be firmly in my grasp slithered away, a disquieting residue left behind on my hands and in my eyes and ears. Overwhelming in its morose synesthesia and downright bleary at times, Halve Maen is like those little yellow pills I popped so long ago: Ingestion will definitely fuck you up. "}