{"label":" Irritant","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2494/homepage_large.7b76c2f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Hurst","artist":"Donna Summer","title":"This Needs to Be Your Style","text":" As a descriptive signifier, the term IDM never made much sense to me. Playingup the reclusivegenius schtick to such an extent that some of these cats look like Unabombersintraining, its major artists have catered to one primary fanbase reclusive shutins and undersexed college kids by maximizing the I and M whilst largely ignoring the D (all respect to Ludacris, yo). The brooding dourness of the scene hasn't just disregarded dancing, though, as many of the major players in the game focus on abstraction to the extent that visceral reaction of any sort is out of the question. In shot, this record did not make me dance. His music might not encourage conventional dancing, but Donna Summer (obviously not the diva) doesn't suffer idle headbobbing lightly. A balding, slightly overweight journalist and WFMU DJ named Jason Forrest, Summer works in a manner encompassing every IDMtrend to come along in the past decade drillnbass, gabba, tigerbeat6esque laptop trickery, plunderphonics all are fair game for Summer to destroy and recontextualize. Part of a loose collective of samplefiends, including Giorgio Marauder (AKA END) and Duran Duran Duran, all working under the nom de electronique \"cockrock disco,\" Summer and crew are proponents of what Forrest refers to in a recent Vice Magazine piece as \"the new computer music.\" Musically speaking, these acts have little to do with traditional disco, and while computers surely factor in heavily, things never get too techgeeky. Performancewise, however, the banner starts to make sense playing out all over Europe to soldout audiences, they (and Summer in particular) have become renowned as much for their flamboyant, confrontational shows as for their challengingly appealing music. Listening to This Needs to Be Your Style, Summer's second release (following the To All Methods Which Calculate Power EP), is disorienting at first: imagine your favorite DJ scratching and crossfading between your local bestofthe80s radio station and a Hrvastki record, and you're getting close. Summer assembles tracks almost solely from samples, albeit with a heavy DSP coating. Like John Oswald's Plunderphonics approach (Summer is an admitted Oswald fiend), his tracks blatantly taunt copyright laws, though his sample choices surprisingly avoid the esoteric in favor of more obvious popbased sources. As a result, and despite the avantgarde construction, a pop feel permeates many of the tracks \"What You Truly Need\" is loaded with fragmented callandresponse vocal cuts, horn stabs, and radiofunk palmmuted guitar chugging, while \"We Call It 'The Box'\" flays hiphop conventions, coasting on 808 hits and what sounds like a sample from Planet Patrol's rollerskatingrink classic \"Play At your Own Risk\". Things get even more pop on \"Heels Over Head\", during which Summer inverts the classic GoGo's single. Intercut by a sample of the organbuildup from J. Geils' \"Freeze Frame\", Summer rips \"Head Over Heels\" apart at the seams, leaving the signature melodic hook intact as a basis over which to splatter drillnbass heroics. The \"rock\" part of the \"cockrock disco\" equation does shine through on two of the album's most technically impressive cuts. The album's structural masterwork, \"Prog's Not Dead\" lives up to its title, as 13/8 time signatures fly by at a disarming pace. Unfortunately, the track also succumbs to the traps of the genre at which it slyly winks this is surely digitalvirtuosity of the highestorder, but like even the best progrock, the musicalmasturbation tires quickly. Summer fares better on \"Accept the Cheap\", where elaborate polyrythms and video games plinks clash with metal guitar riffing, truly fulfilling the promise of his vision of this \"cockrock disco.\" Full of enough copyrightabusing fellatio to choke Kid 606's pussycat, This Needs to Be Your Style shreds through familiar hooks with such blinding pace that their origin can only be discerned after repeated listens. Like Max Tundra's Mastered By Guy At the Exchange, this is a pop record at heart, loaded with familiar blips of melody and rhythm, but filtered through the perspective of something truly rare: a hyperactive IDM'er who really just wants to RAWK. "}