{"label":" C+P Grob","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2501/homepage_large.a1f3d7a7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"Werner Dafeldecker / Klaus Lang","title":"Lichtgeschwindigkeit","text":" This jubilant record is a piquant mixture of jazzy rhythms and luscious funk grooves, filled with haunting Mary J. Bligestyle vocals and happy, singalong, jamonthebeach melodies. Okay, that was just to fool the speed readers in the audience. Let's get down to business. A Viennese avantgarde multiinstrumentalist named Werner Dafeldecker (formerly of Polwechsel) and his associate, Klaus Lang, pick up a double bass and a pipe organ and record an album of somber, droning minimalism in an Austrian church, naming their tracks in binary code. But wait, these guys do have a sense of humor. What else could be responsible for separating these irreparable and seemingly barely altered nasalizing mediations into separate pieces? Everyone will freely admit there's barely a less pretentious way to spend your evening this side of funding an absintheserving café bookstore dedicated to FlatArt and Superrealism.The back of the album tells me Dafeldecker plays acoustic guitar on this, but I doubt anyone except a forensics scientist would be able to track down where that comes in. With barely any digital effects (some small radio work at the beginning), Dafeldecker and Lang have essentially gotten rid of the defining characteristics of each instrument. The entire first half is a chilling, imperceptibly moving hum, occasionally merging into a tone or two almost accidentally, as if the music an instrument makes has absolutely no relation to the instrument itself. My familiarity with the attributes of a pipe organ are rather deficient at the moment, but, purely speculating, it doesn't seem it was intended for manufacturing the glazed, frigid winds that flail throughout the session, bereft of any tone. They also seem bereft of any composition or agency on the part of the player. It's the sound of a pipe organ when no one's listening to it.Dafeldecker's bass is generally used for bizarre, phantasmal brushing and skimming that I might call percussive, though it's barely even that. The only word that can approximate it is, for better or worse, silence. As can be easily imagined, the resulting music is a group of low, laggard frequencies that are more about the process these sounds come from than the sound itself, particularly as the sound is nearly inaudible in some places. There are long passages, say five to ten minutes, of either nothingness or subtle gradations of wind. The experience is not dissimilar to sitting in a slightly turbulent plane: inherently disconcerting, but not particularly pernicious. If you think it would be impossible to produce a solo bass/pipe organ album without resorting to clichéd new age, this album would not disprove your theory. One could easily fall asleep from the jetlag, but nevertheless there's a highpitched whistle that would make any repose fairly uncomfortable.Compared to the first fifteen minutes, the few mischievously pathetic tones that emerge on the third track feel like the dawn of civilization or a fiftypiece orchestra. Dafeldecker eventually makes his bass sound like a brass instrument (which I find analogous to making a sink sound like an answering machine). On track four, he similarly turns it into a woodwind. There are two slight discontinuities: the beginning of the fifth track, a simply creepy siphoning of translucent gases into the celestial sphere, a church run on pistons and tremolos, and the last track where three microtones sort of form a melody if the listener's a dog.If you solely like \"music\" or albums that don't involve the mastery of German pronunciation, you'll loathe these pieces with a passion. If you like some of Polwechsel's or Dafeldecker's earlier work, or even hyperminimalism in general (think Alvin Lucier or Keith Rowe's more boring works), this \"sound\" might not bear too many repeated hearings, but it's undeniably fascinating. As that's essentially the point of good experimental music (besides the intellectual value of impressing your friends with words like Dafeldecker), this will provide some slight discomfort to those familiar with this kind of music and calamitous anger to those who think albums always need to be making some sort of noise. "}