{"label":" Spectral Sound / Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2504/homepage_large.b4f8c154.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Matthew Dear","title":"Leave Luck to Heaven","text":" Matthew Dear has proven himself one of the more prolific new artists of the year. In 2003 alone, he's released a pair of EPs on Spectral Sound (the more houseoriented arm of Ann Arbor's Ghostly International label), recorded for Richie Hawtin's Plus 8 imprint (as False) and Markus Nikolai's Berlinbased Perlon label (as Jabberjaw), and now finally delivers his debut fulllength, Leave Luck to Heaven. It's no wonder that Dear allows his work to be represented by a wide range of labels, from Ghostly's electropop, to Plus 8's minimal techno, to Perlon's techhouse his music blends elements of each of those genres. So, yeah, more eclecticism, then? Not really, Leave Luck to Heaven is more like alchemy. Instead of genrehopping from track to track substituting some sort of focused vision and sound for a lack of ideas dressed up as a surfeit of them Dear boils down his wideranging influences and combines elements of his own more catagorizable work. The result is his most satisfying release to date and (along with Ricardo Villalobos' Alcachofa) another technodub record that deftly straddles the line between home listening and the dancefloor. Comparisons to Hawtin and Villalobos arguably flatter to deceive at this point in Dear's career, but they're far from unfounded. In a sense, Dear is creating sounds that blend the same elements that Hawtin used as building blocks on his Final Scratchassisted mix CD Decks, EFX & 909. And, like the Chilean Villalobos, Dear takes cues from the Teutonic trends toward mixing the spatial qualities of dub with traditional house beats while retaining an outsider's ear. As a result, Leave Luck to Heaven is an attractive listen for causal electronic listeners. Its ebb and flow of soothing melodies and lubbing beats and its blend of vocal and instrumental tracks keeps things lively and creates a sense of balance and dynamics. When the record peaks it's often when Dear stays closer to Detroit techno roots such as the invigorating strippedandclipped jaunt of \"Just Us Now\" or minimal secondwave melody of \"The Crush\". Elsewhere, gently snapping beats and gracious stabs and eerie washes of synths color Dear's deceptively complex rhythms, creating palpable sensations of tension and release on tracks such as \"An Unending\" and \"You're Fucking Crazy\", each of which twitch and hum with hollowedout nervous energy. The vocal tracks, sung in gentle falsetto, veer closest to machineage electro and the deep, rolling basslines of Detroit's secondwave techno. They also provide the highlights of the record: \"It's Over Now\" and \"Dog Days\". The former brings life during wartime to the disco. It takes the infectious repetition and sense of communality of the dancefloor, and alternates between sarcastically joining calls to arms (\"I don't want to feel left out\") and hoping that that isn't the bomb that brings us together (\"Why can't we work it out?\"). \"Dog Days\" is better still, a flatout infectious electropop gem, a ropeskipping singsong of synthetic horns, Dear's cyclical vocals and a seesaw of pulsating tones and beats. \"Tell another story,\" Dear repeats, enthusing the beat to go on and on which it does for six headbobbing minutes. It could have gone on for another six. In a year in which Dear has written his share of stories, \"Dog Days\" is the standout chapter. "}