{"label":" Future Farmer","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2506/homepage_large.8789aa52.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"David Dondero","title":"The Transient","text":" I am not talking about ol' EClap, or the reverential minstrelsy of jukenillas such as Jon Spencer or The Black Keys when I proclaim: there is a white blues. Its distinguishing characteristic: tinny anxiety. David Dondero stands a good chance of being canonized by the whiteblues scholarbots of the next fiscal millennium, though he's currently just one of the genre's migrant laborers, helping to polish the statues of several of his agitated ancestors and impatient contemporaries (Townes Van Zandt, Gordon Gano, and Simon Joyner, for starters). STANDARD: White blues boasts its own possessed forefather: Daniel Johnston fills the Robert Johnson role. FULFILLMENT: Dondero can shiver on a Johnstonian scale. STANDARD: White blues requires frantically scraped chords alienated from their folk, gospel, and rumpshaking roots. FULFILLMENT: Dondero's uptempo work suggests a oneman Sebadoh (that's heyday Sebadoh) and holds him a spot in the alphabetized archives after Billy Bragg and Chickasaw Mudd Puppies. STANDARD: White blues selfconsciously metaacknowledges its newbie fraudulence as a genre. FULFILLMENT: Dondero poses about journeyman posturing and sings about the woejoys of songwriting. Aware that he's working in what can be a prestigeless idiom, Dondero performs with the whowantssome aplomb of a masochistic busker. Aware that the sensitive vagabond songwriter shtick can devolve into an embarrassing pisscontest (during which the acoustimessiahs may as well claim total elephantitis of the heart: \"I can feel the suffering of a jaundiced stepchild three states away\" versus \"I was sensing disturbances in the force back when Alec Guinness was Ewan McGregor playing paddycake on Liam Neeson's lap\"), Dondero is careful (on \"Less Than the Air\") to offer an invective against such wallowing: \"You're not the only one who got caught in the rain/ This whole world don't revolve around your pain.\" As smart and as likable and as good at maintaining whiteblues tumultuousness as Dondero is, the listener will still have difficulty pinpointing what makes this collection singular, despite its allstar supporting cast, including producer Mike Mogis, keys by Wolf Colonel, backup vocals by Conor Oberst, and Tiffany Kowalski's violin lending gypsy tinges of Desire (except for the exuberant \"The Stars Are My Chandelier\", which she helps to launch into Tall Dwarfsland). Maybe this guy ought to hire outside lyricists, because his arrangements pack so much more wallop than his words, which are often too explanatory, as if Dondero didn't trust the strength of his images and observations. Do we need to be told on the first song that he plays \"the skinny indie white boy blues\" when the third song conjures such blinding shades of pale? I will think, sympathetically, of Dondero whenever I pass an abandoned minivan on the interstate. "}