{"label":" Landspeed","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2508/homepage_large.29ac4cf1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Dead Prez / Sticky Fingaz","title":"Turn Off the Radio Mixtape Vol. 2: Get Free or Die Tryin'","text":" If you're reading this website, there's a relatively high chance that Dead Prez hates your fucking guts. It's nothing personal. Chances are, it's just the color of your skin. Sure, the group has historical evidence to back up some of their disdain for the other white meat, but in stark contrast to the creative narrativebased style of The Coup's Boots Riley and the abrasive, loudspeaker soundclash of Public Enemy, Dead Prez's music fails by sounding purely conventional and presenting their cause in the most ignorant manner possible. m1 and stic.man are the emcees behind the most popular antiestablishment, problack militant rap group today and they draw their lyrical fury from a history of drug dealing, dropping out of high school, and traditional ghetto upbringings. Their songs span a vast array of subject matter: disdain for the police, revolutions, drugs, depressed mothers, black power, the hood, revolutions, black power, dead homies, revolutions and black power. This in mind, there are only eight fulllength songs and the best track is a remake. \"Last Days Reloaded\" is an exercise in how a new style of soundscape and limited exposure can help a group. Fredro Starr's dusty windsong production harkens back to Marley Marl, while the Dead Prez duo make good use of the backing (and original rhyme schemes of the Onyx classic) for the best song on the album. Most impressively is Sticky Fingaz returning to form in the face of one of his older great works, with ridiculously raw lines like, \"I done broke every rule in the good book/ Trust me, I've memorized the anarchist cookbook,\" and, \"Fuck it, throw me in jail, I need a vacation!\" The caveats of the Dead Prez movement are plentiful: The subject matter is underdeveloped and narrow, their guest emcees are less than sharp, and the album structure is made for abbreviated listening, yet comes off more loosely constructed than urgent. Most importantly, even though the artists speak about news reporters \"making scapegoats of every black youth on the corner\" and the death of Tupac with fervid emotion, they still manage to bore with their meandering song structure and lazy neosoul choruses. The production is vastly disappointing when compared to their work with Kanye West and others on their nearclassic debut. Most of the beats are skewed towards an embarrassingly dated Tupac bootleg album feel, while a scant few are reduced to tonedeaf bounce tracks that make Lil' Jon look like a platinumclad Prefuse 73. Particularly unfortunate are Tahir's \"Paper, Paper\", sporting a melody that could easily pass for a child's first experiment with Mario Paint's music editor, and the fake piano and flat bass of \"Scared to Die\" by Askari X. m1 is currently dating Erykah Badu, and her influence is fresh in his sudden penchant for song. If Badu is responsible for Andre 3000's creative renaissance and Common's bad rapping/knitted hats, m1 will be rocking shows with red, green and black parachute pants, writing ballads about how his love for Badu is like a shotgun in a white man's mouth. Regardless of their good intentions, if Dead Prez were in place of Malcolm X in front of the pedestal, the shooters would be aiming for the mics and not their heads. "}