{"label":" In the Red","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2509/homepage_large.f58cc774.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Dirtbombs","title":"Dangerous Magical Noise","text":" As a musical landscape, Detroit is tangled up in mythology: the twitchy legacy of Motown, the ashes of The Stooges, the political caterwauling of John Sinclair and the screeching MC5, the piercing howls of a carnivorous, vineswinging axman, and the recent commotion kicked up over a brother/sister duo and a loping white rapper. Fold in a handful of pressready analogies about industry and grime, and a few prosaic portraits of clanging pistons, merciless winters, and honest, pinkfaced Americans, and unleash the wordy enigma that is contemporary Detroit. Forced to sacrifice a viable cultural identity for series of onedimensional, Upton SinclairmeetsNorman Rockwellmeets8 Mile clichés, it becomes impossible not to ask: Does Detroit even exist outside the pages of Mojo? Chances are, The Dirtbombs hate that they've become just another notch in the greasy Motor City totem pole (check every White Stripes feature framed by a meaningless Dirtbombs sidebar), but Dirtbombs frontman Mick Collins has Detroit roots that can't be easily overlooked, or at least not anymore: former guitarist for late80s garage beasts The Gories, Collins has recently been dragged into the very weirdest kind of posthumous regard, with soldsixcopies Gories records suddenly becoming elite status symbols for Detroitcrazed garagerock revivalists. A crude, pubescent, magnificent mess, The Gories were both a reaction to and an embodiment of the city which spawned them; the band sucked up muchdiscussed local influences and then promptly spit them back out on the floor, each rocksoulgarage song a halfdigested, unrecognizable, and entirely gross hometown homage. Collins' mission with The Dirtbombs is not so different: Dangerous Magical Noise, the band's third fulllength (and followup to 2001's soul covers record, Ultraglide in Black) quakes with the potential for total implosion, always threatening to completely dissemble itself and leave a tiny pile of gravel behind. That danger the menace of possible destruction, or of feeling like this record might never play again because it's just too fragile to hold up is also exactly what makes Dangerous Magical Noise so unabashedly glorious. Stubbornly lofi and expectedly scrappy, the album is also tremendously listenable, a rhythmic, legflailing romp through vintage soul cool, glam boogie, classic rock thrash, and punk bravado. The Dirtbombs boast two drummers (and have recorded with two bass players), but even with all that thumping, the band's backing effort is barely enough to support Collins' wild guitar freakouts and billowing Henrdixhollers. Opener \"Start the Party\" is as clear an introduction to raucous Detroit stomping as anyone's ever gonna offer, a fuzzladen Kick Out the Jams promise that, while breezeblowing powerful, doesn't readily admit to the band's capacity for subtle tinkering. The rollicking bluesrocker \"F.I.D.O.\" belies The Dirtbombs' ability to craft emotionally complex, anthemic songs; \"Motor City Baby\" showcases the band's readiness to dip into the hooky, bubblegum choruses that made Motown wiggle. There's not too much here to dismiss: \"Stuck in Thee Garage\" is ultimately forgettable (although its title is a nice implication of the Bombs' embrace of high/low dichotomy), but Dangerous Magical Noise plays better as one big, somersaulting explosion, aggressive and gentle and smarter every time you look. If The Dirtbombs are any indication of Detroit's real \"scene,\" they're proving that the frantic archivists and smokingjacket cognoscenti will never actually come to terms with the antipoetry of this city. But if the lack of a realistic, cohesive music community means it's possible to create this kind of bizarrely assimilated beauty, then Detroit shouldn't even care. "}