{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2513/homepage_large.9b1e4764.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Dirty Projectors","title":"Slaves' Graves and Ballads","text":" A popular theory among conspiracy theorists lately is that the Bush Administration's campaign in Iraq isn't a grab for oil or a grab for history, but rather an attempt at creating a socalled manageable chaos in the Middle East. It's hardly an unprecedented idea: By propping up a flimsy, illegitimate regime beholden to foreign interests, Iraq will mire in an insurrectionary climate, and our country will gain the justification it needs to continue its interference in the region. The paradox, of course, is that chaos, by definition, is highly unmanageable; inevitably, the contradiction doesn't always pan out, and ours is looking more and more like such a case. If manageable chaos is what Bush and his cabal were angling for, they'd have been wise to take a page from The Dirty Projectors, whose songs consistently threaten to implode under the weight of their own ambitions, yet always manage to hold it together. Slaves' Graves and Ballads effortlessly executes a seemingly incoherent, unilateral agenda: Solesongwriter Dave Longstreth is autodidactic minstrel who occasionally seems to be winging it. Luckily, The Dirty Projectors trade in theatrical folk, not the theater of war; the stakes are relatively low, and these 14 songs derive much of their sophistication from a calculated lack of order.Slaves' Graves and Ballads is the harmonious wedding of two prior EPs released separately earlier this year. The albums are less complementary than they are starkly juxtaposed. The divergent Aside/Bside architecture provides a tidy stylistic contrast, as the ornate orchestration of the album's first half gives way to the demure acousticism of its back end. The record explores several naturally obscure reference points, resembling by turns Stars Like Fleas' shadowy epic Sun Lights Down the Fence, Devendra Banhart's indolent folk, and a Gilbert & Sullivan opera. Throughout the record's first seven tracks, Longstreth is accompanied by the tenpiece First Orchestral Society for the Preservation of the Orchestra, a chamber music collective assembled by Longstreth himself. Fortunately, the panoply of classic instruments a readily bastardizable commodity isn't used as a convenient way to feign sophistication, but instead as a formidable melodic foundation. From the mesmeric marimba ostinato that inaugurates \"Somberly, Kimberly\", Slaves' Graves manages to avoid the cloying bravura typically implicit in orchestral pop music. \"On the Beach\", an easy standout, makes sly intimations at a central melody, introducing several motifs that come in and out of focus throughout the ensuing six tracks. Generally, Longstreth is left to wander alone, leaving windswept salvos adrift over the orchestra's somber ruminations. His lyrics are unfailingly clever, turning pliable platitudes into weightier fodder. On the unassuming closer \"Since I Opened\" he intones, \"When I start to feel this way/ I can only wonder/ What is this weather I'm under?\" Elsewhere, he takes potshots at mundane scenes of modern degradation, sing/speaking, \"The soupedup Honda is stalled in traffic on the roadside, burping their subwoof like a council of bullfrogs.\" Slaves' Graves is slathered in macabre imagery and dank timbres, but Longstreth's sultry drawl is dependably soothing and remarkably fluid. As dour and gray as the record may occasionally get, it's impossible to be sullen by music so boundlessly visceral. The ominous war drums behind \"Grandfather's Hanging\" do little to undercut the frail beauty of Longstreth's ambling vocals. Such unlikely triumph is par for course. After the dulcet string and clarinet swells of \"Hazard Lights (Reprise)\" the album abruptly segues into the spare strumming of \"A Labour More Restful\", initiating Slaves' subdued second half. Longstreth's dainty guitar playing, previously hidden, is born forth, assuming a lead melodic role for the rest of the record. \"Because Your Light Turns Green\" features some surprisingly dexterous licks, recalling erstwhile noodlers John Fahey and Vini Reilly. The scaledback, nocturnal second set is a refreshing but appropriate contrast to the heady arrangements of the opening act. Confused, incohesive and utterly lonely, Slaves' Graves and Ballads finds solace in its sadness. If only the Bush Administration were so gentle. "}