{"label":" Bluebird","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2516/homepage_large.379387f0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Dave Douglas","title":"Strange Liberation","text":" The concept album is one of the only remaining things keeping jazz labels afloat. Who'd have thought in the mid80s, when John Zorn's discography was defined by discrete projects, genre collisions and tributes to lesserknown past jazzmen, that this would become the model for all \"major\" jazz labels by the end of the 90s: If a record doesn't have a concept be it \"the calypso album\" or \"remember Eric Dolphy?\" or \"let's cover Björk!\" it can't be marketed, the critics have no hook to discuss, and there's nothing to move it to the top of the pile. The towering back catalogs of jazz overwhelm all new releases, so for the newer guys, just playing great music doesn't seem like an \"occasion\" anymore. Dave Douglas and Bill Frisell respectively, the leader and guest star on Strange Liberations thrive in this environment. Their records receive steady distribution and attention from the press, and each features a new group or project: Frisell going from folk and Americana to a highly original world music melting pot (last year's The Intercontinentals), while Douglas splits his time between diverse working bands, chaotic evocations of social protest, and idiosyncratic but thoughtful homages to his heroes. The quintet featured here debuted on The Infinite, which was pegged as a Miles Davis tribute for its late60s quintet sound and Uri Caine's use of a Fender Rhodes keyboard. But with Strange Liberation, as the band begins to sound lived in and Douglas writes a set of beautifully melodic compositions, we get a record that needs no tagline (Frisell's appearance notwithstanding). The opposite of last year's eclectic, electric, sometimes hectic Freak In, Strange Liberation blends Douglas' ideas smoothly into a set of music that's simply one of the best written, paced and performed works in his catalog. The flow is so strong that the best way to enjoy the record is endtoend. Douglas leads some songs in a strident tone, his trumpet plaintively echoing Booker Little in songs that evoke the urgency of social justice; but next to those tracks lope easier, angular songs like \"Skeeterism\". James Genus straps on an electric bass for the funkfusion \"Catalyst\", but that's preceded by the pining muted trumpet on \"The Jones\", and drummer Clarence Penn as responsible as anyone for the album's buoyant pace goes from propulsive rhythms to Paris springtime clouds of cymbals. Douglas fronts the quintet next to reedsman Chris Potter and Caine, who again sticks to Fender Rhodes. While not as typecast as, say, the harpsichord, that keyboard usually evokes a specific era of 70s fusion, either gritty funk or lightasafeather ringing spaces. Caine taps those memories but ditches them at will, as he maneuvers the instrument into every mood he's given which must have been harder than he makes it sound. And then there's Frisell, who's moved so far from straight jazz on his own records his trio sets even include a designated bluegrass section that it's easy to forget how often he comes back to it, in his recent duets with Dale Bruning or his annual gigs with the Paul Motian Trio. Douglas wrote several of these tunes for his guest, like \"The Frisell Dream\", which nods to its namesake's broad cowpoke writing style, as he amicably pokes elbows with the rhythm section; the frontloaded ballads showcase his melancholy lyricism, but Douglas also throws him into surfrock on one track and wideopen space on another. He opens \"Mountains from the Train\" with gently exhaled tones and delay pedal loops broken by woodthudding harmonics still among the most beautiful sounds ever wrung from an electric guitar. A lot of ideas simmer under the easy giveandtake on this record, but Strange Liberation takes all the fractured references and subprojects of the players' careers and buries them under the skin, as they sit down for a straight blowing session. And they shouldn't need an occasion for that. "}