{"label":" StarTime","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2522/homepage_large.b3a34b92.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Dios","title":"Dios","text":" If writers were allowed to draw maps, America would be promptly reproportioned according to its most prosaic cultural mythology: The South would bleed into one colossal tobacco field where shapenote karaoke is scheduled for alternate Thursday nights and cornbread graces every pewter plate; the Midwest would flatten into snug, aluminumsided subdivisions, with brownhaired families cuddling calmly into church pews and exchanging benign pleasantries; the Northeast would rise into a massive, ivywrapped liberal arts college, with everyone sporting purple fleece vests and distractedly steering Labradordribbled Volvo wagons; and the West Coast would become a continuous California, the sun perpetually beating down, ocean breezes gently kicking up grains of pink sand, its bands all sounding exactly like the Beach Boys. It's not unusual for iconic bands to lay claim to slabs of otherwise communal land (see Liverpool, Memphis, etc.), and the Beach Boys have long seized control of the Pacific shore, perpetuating unbreakable notions of harmony, jangle, and perfectly sugared sunmelodies. Californian upstarts Dios not only play psychedelic beachpop, they're also natives of the Beach Boys' hometown of Hawthorne a collision of coincidence that would have rendered them annoyingly Californian were they not so independently great. Fusing squeaky electronics with acoustic guitars and soft, breathy vocals, Dios are dry and spacy, as indebted to Neil Young as they are to Brian Wilson. Constantly shifting focus from earnest folksinging to foundsound experimenting to deliquescent indie psychpop Dios are also stubbornly contemporary, a quirky, whimsical bit of California past, present and future. Brothers Joel and Kevin Morales sing and play guitar, and their harmonies are expectedly copasetic, complimentary in the way that only siblings' voices ever are. Backed by keyboardist Jimmy Cabez DeVaca, bassist J.P. Caballero, and drummer Jackie Monzon, Dios occasionally sound like the only proper soundtrack to your local schoolyard: playful, energetic, and sorta bizarre, with more than enough upsanddowns to power every last seesaw. Opener \"Nobody's Perfect\" eases from aimless synth zaps into a sweet acoustic melody, periodically punctuated by a handful of piano notes and perfectly carried by Morales' able coo; like contemporaries Beachwood Sparks and All Night Radio, Dios playfully fiddle with listenerexpectation, flipflopping between nicely comprehensible pop and fuzzedout bursts of psychedelic weirdness. \"All Is Said and Done\" has a brassy AMradio glow, with a chorus of lalalala breaking up already soft, hazy vocals; the jingling \"You'll Get Yours\" is a yawning bit of psychrock, complete with totally random handclaps. Dios openly admit to an irrational interest in the Beach Boys, reportedly insisting that their international paperwork be inked in the same diner where the Wilsons signed their contracts, and even launching into an exaggerated homage to Pet Sounds' \"You Still Believe in Me\" towards the end of \"50 Cents\". Harmonyheavy tracks like \"The Uncertainty\" point towards their hometown heroes as well, but Dios are far from another mediocre Beach Boys cover band: Without ever attempting to reinvent California, Dios manage to make its pop a little less predictable. "}