{"label":" Devour","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2526/homepage_large.60767c54.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Discordance Axis","title":"Jouhou","text":" Hate, lust, jealousy and fear are indistinguishable in daylight. Only in our most lucid and terrifying nightmares can we see through the uncaring blank slate we projected ourselves onto for so long, its demonic, unchanging grin and heartless eyes awaiting our total emotional collapse. Nailed to the mattress, paralyzed in apnea, our greatest loves laugh, our muffled cries their corollary orgasm. Such evil has a soundtrack, and it's not death metal. No living thing will ever comprehend God, Satan, eternity, or politics, and though you can blame all manner of outside forces for your fears, it's a far more powerful thing to examine their nature, and why they continue to control you. While nothing so explicit as, say, intelligible lyrics outlined Discordance Axis' flagellant mania, Jon Chang's pukethroat bellows and alternating feminine squeals left the decided impression of an inprogress crisis of self. The band's fury their most pedestrian quality, given the medium was completely overshadowed by their unnerving ability to convey anxiety and dread. For almost ten years, they provided a soundtrack to our most private war, against the mistakes we can never redeem.Jouhou is Discordance Axis' definitive release, a primal scream with few peers. Hearing it for the first time is akin to hearing your parents scream at each other drunk: You'll have no idea what Jon Chang is saying, but you'll remember every word. The record's original 21 songs are over in 18 minutes, a jarring, scarring barrage of melodic distortion and blastbeats that rescued a largely ridiculous genre from irrelevance. In the mid1990s, an interchangeable army of acts were operating under the tall shadows of grindcore's past; though the genre was growing rapidly from its late80s roots, it was learning very little. Seminal, apocalyptic acts like Extreme Noise Terror, Napalm Death and Terrorizer seemed to have said all there was to say. Added to the suffocating rigidity of the music itself, the predictable fatalism of other early groups like Carcass, Repulsion and their deathmetal ilk rapidly overtook the genre. Though most grindcore bands had senses of humor about their situation, increasingly, their fans didn't, giving rise to a scene so melodramatic and frankly stupid that the selfeffacing standup comedy of Anal Cunt made welcome relief. Broadsides like \"You Must Be Wicked Underground If You Own This\" and \"Grindcore Is Very Terrifying\" seemed to be the only answer to the genre's failure, but A.C.'s Seth Putnam crowned Discordance Axis the true solution back in 1995: Top 40 Hits includes \"'Stealing Seth's Ideas' the New Book by Jon Chang\". Easily the most artistically noteworthy straight grind act, Discordance Axis proved that, for its silly Cookie Monster vocals and inherent, overthetop hilarity, you could think at 300 beats per minute. Thanks to Chang's startling, highpitched screams and the unbelievable accuracy of drummer Dave Witte (also of Human Remains), Discordance Axis made their name quickly, spreading their catalog across a plethora of 7inch split singles. Most were compiled with their 1995 debut album, Ulterior, which was first released in a limitedrun of 4,000 copies, but later appeared in its entirety on the compilation album Original Sound Version 19921995. What was left from their mid90s apex was appended to the CD issue of Jouhou, which, after being repressed twice in the late 90s now comes to us as Perfect Collection Jouhou, joining the band's 2001 finale The Inalienable Dreamless as one of few CDs to be commercially released in a DVD case. Why? So it will fit in Jon Chang's cabinets, overflowing with Japanese anime. Openly referring to himself as \"otaku\" (\"obsessed to the exclusion of the outside world\"), Chang has lived his postDiscordance Axis life as a designer of animestyled features and games, and even written essays on his addiction. Though his fixation only poked through in song titles like \"Sega Bass Fishing\" and \"Appleseed\", DA's singer was an unrepentant Nippon junkie, connecting with the disintegrating alternate universes of Gunnm, Patlabor, and of course, Akira. In these selfcontained worlds, purpose is absolute; reality is a stage, and every character has a role to play, a destiny to fulfill. Though socially inept fans of such fantasies make them difficult to take seriously, the art form's finest accomplishments lend as much philosophical and emotional impact as any studio film, often addressing themes of futility and death in disturbingly unforgiving terms. Discordance Axis has far more in common with such evocative meditations on reality than any fatuous declaration of its meaninglessness. Though DA were in places easily recognizable as children of Unseen Terror and their ilk (cue \"Carcass Lottery\" and the title track), the majority of Jouhou plays like Sonic Youth in doubletime, a kaleidoscope of pastel skies and falling debris. \"Typeface\", \"A Broken Tomorrow\" and the record's horrific opener \"Vertigo Index\" have the same replay value as the best pop songs, as many shifts in mood and motion as one could hope for. Thrash and speed metal bands used to say, \"There's as many changes in our songs as in regular songs,\" and that may have been true, but they were rarely interesting or surprising. Discordance Axis managed to fulfill that promise, to expand the boundaries of one of music's most disposable, homogenous modes by rejecting its ingrained aesthetic boundaries. Abstract, unrelenting and fearlessly forward, Jouhou divines your darkest dreams, an omnipotent succubus smirking at the foot of your bed. "}