{"label":" Catsup Plate","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2530/homepage_large.2ca73795.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"The Double","title":"Palm Fronds","text":" It's taken a while for me to get around to yammering about The Double, a Brooklyn group that abandoned its originally mathy, precisionbound leanings to embrace more traditional songwriting. As orally fixated as the New York hype machine is, The Double have already been on cognoscenti lips and weekly paper tips with biting mentions of Echo and The Walkmen. However, a funny thing happened on the way to record their debut: Drummer Jeff McLeod severely fucked up his hand, and his cast muffled the chances of capturing the impressive punch of their live sound. As a result, the band did a rethink and Palm Fronds was recorded while McLeod's hand healed: The band opted to forego the rock drumkit and instead use drum machines and loops to propel its songs. While working within these new parameters, both technological accidents and the freedom of creating within a studio setting began to stack up in oddly appealing ways as the group stumbled onto a new creative process that echoed Brian Eno's Oblique Strategies and the sonic permutations in their record collections. \"Blanket on the Beach\" would merely be a sunny slice of bikini and bleachblanket pop were there not a melodica and acrid slush acting as an undertow, pulling the bottom out from under the band. Similarly, tinny distortion eats at the edges of \"Ghost Song\", while \"Standing on a Levee\" follows the longforgotten weed forestin' paths of early Sebadoh and Smog by recording a catchy pop song onto a fourtrack tape that crunches like Grape Nuts. The disc's second half comes across like Coney Island arcane arcadia by way of clattering barrelhouse piano and broken merrygoround melodies, making the tracks seem woozy without straying too far from their Shantytown shack rhythms. The best mashed imagining is \"Firecrackers in Sawdust\", which could be the ghost of Ian Curtis channeled through Keith Hudson's Kingston studio all aslant rhythms and stumbling echoes falling into a brittle balance. As those who remember Catsup Plate's Black Dice, French Paddleboat, Destroyer, and Animal Collective releases can attest, the label's handmade packaging reflects all their records' irregular layers. Here, a waterpainted wraparound hides a jewel case of swirling foliage in sloppy bloom, just as naïf noises obscure and heighten the pop highs that lie at the bottom of The Double's concrete jungle. "}