{"label":" Lovitt","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2533/homepage_large.ba88089e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Decahedron","title":"Disconnection Imminent","text":" I think I might be missing something. According to my dictionary, a decahedron is a tenfaceted, 3D object. Meanwhile, Decahedron, the new trio featuring Fugazi's Joe Lally and exFrodus members Shelby Cinca and Jason Hamacher, have plastered a big twodimensional octagon all over their artwork of their debut album, presumably taking it as their logo. Don't get me wrong; it's a fine image. But shouldn't it at least be tensided? I'm just saying is all. As tenuous as the band's relationship with mathematics may seem from a glance at the cover, though, they don't seem to have any problem with complex meters or nasty syncopation when they're throwing down in the studio. Hamacher and Cinca recorded and produced Disconnection Imminent themselves, giving it a sharpedged yet accessible polish that accentuates the band's brutal precision. Cinca tends to deliver his lyrics with ragged shouts, but also exhibits impressive control over his screams, which at times manage to border on melodic; Lally's smooth, even tenor, meanwhile, offers a balance that's highly effective in driving home the political rage that seethes within the band's lyrics. Though Decahedron take pains not to tailor their criticisms too specifically to the moment at hand, Disconnection Imminent puts its agenda upfront more forcefully than any album I've heard since Bush, Jr. took office. As a general rule, their criticisms of current Administration policy are open to interpretation, but anyone who's close to being on the same page with these guys will know who and what is being referred to by lines like, \"A halfwit was his henchman/ Whose limbs thought for themselves/ Building casket after casket/ Lining warehouse shelves.\" The raging \"Not These Homes\" takes specific issue with the conflation of the Iraq invasion and the euphemistic War on Terror with this choice bit: \"The sky shivers/ Not this time/ Not these homes/ A hundred buildings fall for two that once stood tall.\" It's not exactly the kind of thing that'll have them all over the Clear Channel affiliates, but one supposes they'd rather have it that way, given that they attack Clear Channel by name in impressive opener \"Delete False Culture\", Cinca exhorting his audience to \"delete Clear Channel\" in nearly with a paintpeeling scream in the song's frenzied coda. The song is a heap of snapping guitar riffs, crunching bass and whiplash rhythms that actually plays host to lowkey twopart harmonies in its opening verse, gradually building to Cinca's manic outbursts. \"No Carrier\" follows with breakneck punk fury, the wiry guitars bordering on psychedelia and strange glitchplagued backing vocals tumbling through the final verses. Decahedron are also the rare posthardcore band that's just as compelling at slow tempos as they are more pulsequickening paces, and a handful of excellent slow songs here help to diversify the mix. The instrumental \"Dislocation\" flows through passages of liquid guitar, while \"Every City Is a Prison\"'s creeping harmonies and hornet clouds of guitar flow like oil slicks from bombed pipelines. \"Pay No Mind\" layers Lally over tribal toms as Cinca's guitar stalks the background, framing lines like, \"Take these for anxiety/ Keeps the eyes content with the floor,\" with dread.Disconnection Imminent is a stunning debut, with a bit of filler as its only real fault. Anyone intrigued by the names involved is apt to be pleased with the record, and fans still aching over Frodus' demise will certainly find consolation here. Now if they could just add a couple of sides to that octagon... "}