{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2542/homepage_large.e63915f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Doseone","title":"The Pelt","text":" When musicianscumpoets go bad, it's usually due to a failure to acknowledge that poetry and song lyrics are completely different entities that require different approaches and skill sets. The Silver Jews' David Berman succeeds by amplifying and multiplying the accretion of image to be found in his songs, steering his compositions away from a singable oneliner quality, and toward more architecturally complex mansions of poetry. Avantgarde MC Doseone, however, could be accused of writing his poems as if they were song lyrics, in his new book and accompanying audio CD, The Pelt. But here's the thing: It works, because his music is so unique, so questionable in its intention to be music. His work with Deep Puddle Dynamics, Themselves, and cLOUDDEAD as well as his numerous collaborations and solo projects are all wildly experimental and outré, each in their own individual way, but are united by a common thread: Doseone's muttering, baroquely delivered, and remarkably prolix streamofconsciousness verbal calculus, laden with imbricate image systems and intricate internal rhyming schemes. His song lyrics work as poetry because they don't rely on melodies, hooks, choruses or catchphrases for their force; instead, they document intellection and association in a gloriously raw form. The audio CD that accompanies The Pelt, were it bolstered with beats instead of minimal, atmospheric embellishments such as ambient tape noise, subtle clicktracks and slight vocal distortions, could easily be received as a music CD, rather than a spoken word performance. As it is, it's wellserved by the book, (which is really the main draw anyway), in which the words Doseone reads on the CD slither and tumble all over its pages. Beautifully bound for what is essentially a chapbook, The Pelt boasts a bound spine and fullcolor cover in a handsome card stock. Inside, we find shambling, carefully sculpted poetics that take full advantage of their capacity to surprise and startle: No two pages look the same; the text kinetically rambles over the available surface area. Flipping through, one gets the impression that the text from each page leaps off and scurries to rearrange on the next, skidding into position just as the page becomes visible. The text is offset by various surreal line drawings, creating a threeway aesthetic interface (text/audio/pictures) in which each facet of the triptych deepens the others. There's even a games page in the back, including bizarre versions of the word search, maze, MadLib, and paintbynumbers puzzles. For the work's intellectual content, Doseone retains his usual methods, most notably that of formal appropriation: He hijacks the semantic and structural tics of the automated helpline, the advertisement, the questionnaire, the play, the multiplechoice test, the table of contents, and the essay. You'll even find elements of honesttoGod Imagist and L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E poetry peppering this organic, original and overwhelmingly dense piece of work. Doseone has long been raising the bar for experimental hiphop; here, he does the same for musicians trying their hand at verse. "}