{"label":" No More","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2545/homepage_large.fc1c7e74.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"DNA","title":"DNA on DNA","text":"  Question for the young'uns who are studying DNA for the first time: Sure, DNA mattered, but were they any good? \"nowave\" (genre): The stunted strand of noise music/performance art where amateurs played fast, disjointed jerks of songs with no development, making vulgar and even physical assaults on audiences who would've settled for being spat on. Immortalized as much for how quickly it burned out as for how many bands it still influences, nowave is mostly remembered by a single milestone, No New York, produced by Brian Eno, who picked the four bands that had the best names: James Chance & The Contortions, Teenage Jesus & The Jerks, Mars, and DNA. All of DNA's studio tracks and a handful of live ones are here, even the four songs from No New York. Everyone refers to No New York as one of the great outofprint albums, but if you look around, you can buy it on CD for about $40. But that would be really stupid. Damn, Francis Crick just died. People joke that if you've heard one DNA song, you've heard them all, but you really need at least two: one with keyboardist Robin Lee Crutchfield, and another with his vastly more capable replacement, Pere Ubu bassist Tim Wright. Robin Crutchfield, writing on his website about one of his first gigs, in 1976 at a performance art festival: \"I mapped out a perimeter on the Floyd Bennett airfield runway with a stick of chalk and took several objects including a toy piano and a blanket with me to live in a selfimposed cage like an asylum inmate for the day. 'The Death of Sparrow Hart' was a persona I took on, part bird, part autistic child, dancing and sobbing and pecking at the piano, hiding under a blanket and so on.\" The single biggest reason to revisit DNA is noise savant Arto Lindsay. Lindsay chickenchokes his guitar, splintering notes and shattering chords like windows falling out of a skyscraper. He cracks his vocals like a bullwhip, then garbles his lyrics with the patience of dry heaving. \"Get out of here/ Go fuck yourself,\" he moans, then sticks his head back in the bowl. When a woman suffers a miscarriage, a common cause is genetic damage: The egg and sperm unite but the DNA combines incorrectly, causing chromosomal damage that is too severe to allow the fetus to come to term. Children who are born with mental retardation also suffer genetic irregularities, but landed right at the threshold where the damage did not prevent them from coming to term. Going off the tracklist here, Blonde Redhead could've just named themselves Egomaniac's Kiss instead. Drummer Ikue Mori can't or won't lock in with anybody. Her frantic cymbalbashing works better than when she tries to keep the beat which is fine, since the rhythms are numbing. As for when she pounds out a tribal tattoo, if you were sacrificing your daughter to a volcano and Mori were the best drummer you could hire for the ceremony, you'd really feel like an asshole. Crutchfield on how they got Mori on drums: \"Arto wanted her to be our drummer. I was reluctant, for a number of reasons. The first was that she had played violin and had no experience on drums. The second was that she didn't own any drums. The third was that she didn't speak enough English for us to communicate and manage to build a 20 minute set of songs in less than 30 days. And the fourth was that her visa was expiring and she was planning to leave the country... She did have one thing going for her. She was interested in working with us.\" Is it true that nowave bands couldn't play their instruments? With the benefit of hindsight, you can figure out who had talent and who just had attitude, but nowave is still remembered as a lost oasis of committed, crippling unprofessionalism, of a simpler time when making inept noise with gusto actually could shake someone except of course, how inept could it be if it's still worth listening to on a record, in your living room? Lindsay and Mori later worked with cult composer and improviser John Zorn, for example in the \"game improvisation\" Cobra, where Zorn herded his groups through painfully elaborate rules to produce music that sounds even uglier than this stuff. The nerdification of noise music suggests that for all the posturing and the awareness of posturing that surrounded nowave, the downtown scenesters really lost something when it just became \"skronk.\" Lindsay et al had the sense to kill the project instead of developing it. Arto Lindsay went on to become a fine singer and guitarist, and when he isn't playing extreme improv, he records beautiful albums of Brazilian pop. Meanwhile, Mori switched to drum machine. "}