{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2548/homepage_large.7333aa3f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Diplo","title":"Favela Strikes Back","text":" I haven't done the first graf kindasorta relevant anecdote bit in a while (or the meta thing), so forgive me: During my two month riff in Rome, I sacked the eternal city for the real what have you's what real Italians wear, where real Italians hang out at night, how real Italians ride real Italian scooters. Threebutton collared party shirts are the hot shit, but one arm in I realized I didn't have the chest hair. So the rest of the summer I stuck to wearing \"I Survived the Pantheon\" tees and having my wallet stolen tourist stuff, comfortable but me. Diplo does the tourist thing too obviously there's some give/take w/r/t how much control he has over that but beginningtoend he approaches baile funk with, vaguely we'll say, hiphop sensibilities. (Or better, Hollertronix sensibilities, where bass, Dirty South, Baltimore, and \"Sweet Dreams\", among others, peacefully coexist.) Baile funk aka favela funk aka funk has been doing the crazy Portuguese screaming over Miami bass and U.S. pop kitsch thing for decades now we're just finding out about it. The tracks we're hearing on Diplo's throughthebackdoor mixes (his first trip to Brazil yielded last year's Favela On Blast) aren't necessarily groundbreaking or definitive for the genre (how would we know?), just the ones off Diplo's Riobought comps he thought people'd dig. He liked the stuff simply by how it sounded imagine that. Track 5 (no song titles; more re: that in a sec) snatches something from Grease, I think, and throws it back hiho silver digital cowboy, etc. Then there's a part where all these dogs start barking always glad to hear some of that. The sixth track has James Brown breaks, which I don't remember from the other comps, so that's cool, and track 11 has a Prodigy line on it. Track 15 samples a song I'm probably supposed to know; it's OK. Other songs you may have heard in parts on Diplo's criminally overlooked Piracy Funds Terrorism Vol. 1 mixtape, which he put together with Sri LankanviaLondon artistsinger M.I.A.. Which makes me wonder: If there are baile tracks that we're hearing and saying \"Oh, this is an old one,\" I can only imagine how these tracks fit into a current Rio set. Elsewhere there's all the hora, rinkydink Italian wedding carmina, and crazy singscream MCs whose sound falls somewhere between dancehall toasters and the grime kids. Baile funk is \"make do with what you got\" music it's a fun dance at best (and worst), hardly selfconscious to my ears, raw and celebratory in that amateur talent/lotta heart way whose spirit kill me I find strangely kin to the goodprecious side of American indie. And god I hate to bring this up but: While there's some dubiously transferrable hiphop morality at work here with mixtapes copping songs that themselves copped songs, Diplo's on some honesttobadness culturevulture shit that understandably rubs dudes the wrong way. Worse, his no artist/no song title thing might trick people into thinking \"It all sounds the same to Diplo, he's overgeneralizing!\", which I think reflects more on the accuser than the accused. But 10 wrongs do make five rights, and if Diplo's shtick is bringing this shanty to the world in a way they might respond to and ultimately might take vested interest in (read: $$$), then let's drop the charges for now and indulge the music as wideeyed as he does. "}