{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2549/homepage_large.8cc8bf60.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Diplo","title":"FabricLive 24","text":" When the first Hollertronix mix CD Never Scared first made the rounds in 2003, two kids from Philadelphia proved they achieve what electroclash and dancepunk had aimed for but never quite managed: they revolutionized club culture by ignoring the blueprint and starting anew. Their mixes piled R. Kelly, the Clash, Cash Money Millionaires, and Baltimore club atop each other with no regard for smooth transitions, genre boundaries, or copyright law. DJs Diplo and Low Budget used roughly 200 tracks on the mix the result was a deliriously anarchic mess. Two years later, Diplo is no longer an outsider. He and M.I.A. are on some newmillennium powercouple shit, he's turned baile funk into a hipster cause celebre, and he's worked with guys like Vybz Kartel and Kano. More importantly, you can go out any night of the week in New York and hear DJs mix Southern gutterrap into newromantic synthpop. Diplo often gets dissed as a carpetbagging dilettante, but he's ultimately made clubland safe for carpetbagging dilettantes like, um, me. So it's appropriate that the London club Fabric would invite Diplo to contribute to its Fabriclive mix series. What compelled Diplo to turn in his most obvious, placid mix yet is another matter. FabricLive 24 features plenty of amazing music and finds some inspired connections, but the great thing about Diplo has always been his ecstatic embrace of chaos, and we don't get a whole lot of that here. What we do get is the lesstalkedabout side of Diplo, the guy who racks up clothinglabel sponsorships like notches on his belt. There's not much heavy, dirty shit on FabricLive 24; Diplo instead focuses on frisky, glinty electro. He sticks hard to genres that fit this side of his aesthetic (new wave, baile funk, classic house) while mostly tossing out the bits that don't (rap, Baltimore club). Copyright law probably has a lot to do with this; it's Diplo's first commercially available mix, and he certainly can't afford to jam in tracks the way he does on his underground sets. Additionally, he's going for a European audience here, more schooled in rave than rap, and it shows; he's gotten it into his head that a DJ set should tell a story rather than just build momentum. Problem is, he doesn't seem to have a story to tell. The first third of the mix is dominated by a long, unbroken set of 80s electropop tracks (Cybotron, Yazoo, Debbie Deb) which, while uniformly great, are so thematically close to each other that they grow monotonous. When he segues into harder, raunchier stuff (Cajmere's acidhouse classic \"Percolator\", Ludacris' bouncetwerk classic \"What's Your Fantasy?\"), he does it by way of watery clickhouse tracks like Solid Groove's \"This Is Sick\". Later, a baile funk miniset builds up intensity nicely for the snarlgrime energybomb of Jammer's \"Destruction VIP\", only to deaden its own momentum with the Cure's undanceable \"Lovesong\". And it would've been a great idea to end a dance mix with a mopey, meditative Cat Power jam if Tim Sweeney hadn't already done the exact same thing a year ago. At its worst, Fabriclive 24 is a haphazard and repetitive mix of a bunch of great tracks which is still not a bad thing. But it also gives us one tantalizing glimpse of what it could be when Diplo mixes Outkast's \"B.O.B.\" into Le Tigre's \"Deceptacon\": two frantic, desperate, furious dancefloor anthems right on top of each other, both songs feeding on each other and finding a sense of ecstatic liberation. My jaw dropped when he pulled off the same transition at Intonation, and it nearly did again here. If this one moment of beautiful insanity overshadows the rest of Diplo's fun, competent mix CD, maybe that should tell him he needs to be doing fewer fun, competent mix CDs and making more moments like that happen. "}