{"label":" Subliminal Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2551/homepage_large.538ea1e1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Dungen","title":"1999-2001","text":" I don't know what's more disappointing: The fact that the reissue of Dungen's debut sounds almost nothing like Ta Det Lungt, or that Gustav Ejstes' promising first works are so irredeemably flaky. These early songs, though containing the germ of psychrock prodigy Ejstes' considerately structureoriented future, are maddeningly unfocused. 19992001 contains three meandering compositions, each between 11 and 18 minutes in length, that often hit upon captivating ideas, only to blow them quickly asunder. There's little coherence, and even less development just tease after tease of riffs sans refrain. Ejstes flirts with melodies before submerging them in murky Tangerine Dreamstyle ambience. Transitions? Who needs 'em. Some may hear these descriptors and call to mind the Mars Volta's contentious Frances the Mute (which, I'm told, is the greatest album ever made), but there's a fundamental difference: 19992001 is music that's grandiose on premise but modest in execution. Approach the Mars Volta's hifalutin drift, meanwhile, with caution. Frances the Mute is like the dude who, thoroughly lubricated, shoulders his way into other peoples' conversations at a party: Loud, clumsy, longwinded, and probably uninvited. Tripping too hard to socialize, 19992001 stays back on the commune, dancing to the Rain God in solitude. Let it frolic about, but good luck finding its wavelength. Oh, right, the music. Where to begin? Archaeologists are currently at work cataloguing the 6,487 individual passages on 19992001. But in lieu of a muchneeded road map, I can tell you that the album starts on a strong note. Well, \"Stadsvandringar\" doesn't so much start as it does enter, in the form of an opening guitar solo that wouldn't sound out of place round the three minutemark of Ta Det Lungt's \"Festival\". Ejstes' sinuous psychfuzz guitar is soon overtaken by one of the record's few vocal melodies, which in turn is pushed aside by an analog synth burbling up from the deep. From there, the song sort of drifts. After ducking into a saucy bossajazz detour, Ejstes showcases his multiinstrumentalist talents by taking a drum solo, but a refrain cuts abruptly in what else? a gong smash. \"Standsvandringar\" as well as the album's other two tracks, \"Midsommarbongen\" and \"Lilla V\\x8Annen\" eventually finds its footing in the nether reaches of its inexhaustible runtime. \"Lilla V\\x8Annen\" actually features the echoey cogitative flute sampled on Ta Det Lungt's \"Lejonet Och Kulan\". The riff lasts for a precious few seconds, but any glimmer of familiarity is welcome amid 19992001's overwhelming sprawl, and for that reason, I hereby declare \"Lilla V\\x8Annen\" this collection's best track. (It also features a hyperkinetic outro that finally captures the galvanization we could've used from the outset.) Ejstes has helmed a working knowledge of an impressive array of instruments, and he wants you to know it. But his virtuosity is more as a songwriter than a musician. (Though who wouldn't mind hearing a few more of those roaring drum fills the likes of \"Panda\"'s intro?) Come see the young genius' bluehot juvenalia. Bring reading material. "}