{"label":" Kemado","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2552/homepage_large.f5816f8d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Dungen","title":"Ta Det Lugnt [Expanded]","text":" Despite the constant influx of catchphrasecoordinated marketing campaigns that would lead you to believe that lifeaffirming records are released daily, it's forever rare to stumble upon one as consistently mindblowing and aesthetically farreaching as Dungen's Ta Det Lugnt. Because of this scarcity, when such an unexpected (and immediate) discovery does take place, it's like being struck by indescribable melodic lightning: Unlike discs that warrant facile disses or mediocre passing grades, the countless reasons for its boundless successes remain ineffable and shadowy despite repeat latenight closelistening sessions.Simply put, Dungen exhibit all the signs of legitimate, hardwon staying power. Ta Det Lugnt is an exceedingly triumphant psychpop oddity that evokes Keith Moon's drum fills on The Who Sell Out, the wraiths of unsung bedroom psyche celebrants, and the acoustic sustain and harmonizing of The Byrds' Younger Than Yesterday. Ta Det Lugnt feels less like a new release than some ancient tome, a fully formed masterpiece dropped unexpectedly on corduroy laps from some bluebrown sky. It's so aesthetically tight that even carbon dating insists that it could not be postmillennial.To be sure, there's a major difference between retro and somehow embodying your parents' vintage zeitgeist: It's damnnear impossible to believe that the humming tubes, crackling drums, smoky backdrop, and complexly interwoven melodies on Ta Det Lugnt were birthed in a quickfix iPod age. But perhaps even more impressive is that, despite the music's headiness and intricacy, its anachronistic results feel unusually effortless, earnest, and unpretentious: Dungen seem driven to this sound not for bloodless cred points, but out of a very sincere devotion to the music from a bygone era.Accomplished beyond his years, 26yearold Swedish multiinstrumentalist Gustav Ejstes is the pinup mastermind behind Dungen's vibrant polish. For the full duration of his third album's 13 bracing tracks, he perfectly inhabits and then expands upon his homeland's late60s/early70s acidrock scene. Ta Det Lugnt particularly taps into the expansiveness of his Swedish psych predecessors, Parson Sound, while maintaining a murky rocker edge: Imagine that band colliding with The Kinks, or Amon Dl II with Olivia Tremor Control, or Comets on Fire with The Zombies on their way to Terrastock.Interested in pushing pop glitter to its limits, Ejstes doesn't go as far afield into psychpop cliches like chirping birds and hippie atmospherics as his elder brethren, but his equally vintage garage sound allows a definite space for ethereality in the form of funereal dewdrop strings, free jazz breakdowns, brief whiffs of AM radio tuning, flute minuets, lushly cascading pianos, prog time changes, florid medieval chimes, skymelting freak outs, church organs, fuzzguitar jousts, doubled mountaintop whistles, roaring sixstring solos, and autumnal instrumental interludes. It's obvious his songs are painstakingly arranged with a sense of depth, gradations, and tonal threedimensionality redolent of something as off the charts as Pet Sounds.I said all of the above and more last year, and it still holds true. Hindsight and new layers of hype included, Ta Det Lugnt remains a consistently amazing album. Since my initial tonguewagging Dungen's deservedly gone from limited distribution and whispered wordofmouth to NME hyperbole and glowing writeups in just about every community newspaper from the Philadelphia Daily News to San Francisco Weekly (and beyond). There's also been a rush to offer more sounds: A few months back came the generally misunderstood compilation 19992001, wherein Ejstes restitched early material into three lengthy soundscapes instead of presenting them in their original form, and now, of course, comes the U.S. rerelease of the fire starter, Ta Det Lugnt.Repackaged by NYC's Kemado Records (home of Elefant, Diamond Nights, and goofy Brooklyn loft crashers Cheeseburger), the album is as it was, but comes with an extra CD that includes five previously unreleased tracks, which will also eventually appear on Subliminal Sounds as a vinyl 12\". As might be expected, the addons aren't as amazingly ordered or cohesive as the album proper, but they do pleasingly expand the Dungen oeuvre.Of the five tracks, four are instrumental. Only the opener, \"Tyst Minut\", an outtake from the Ta Det Lugnt sessions, offers a new taste of Ejstes' Swedish. The sleepy midtempo four minutes open with crystalline strums, Nyquil vocalizations and chordal rings, then turn back into a semismoking singsong. The chorus picks things up a bit with accompanying guitar noodle and the bridge is a molasses solo that shifts into florid piano cascades. It's followed by \"Jamna Plagor\", an instrumental from 2003, notable for its interesting percussion sound (tinny, echoed hand drums?) and midsong dissolve into a brief metagalactic interstices. Though enjoyable, it's nothing special.More interesting are the three new recordings, \"Sjutton\", \"Christopher\", and \"Badsang\" (\"Bathing Song\"), which give a taste of Dungen yettocome. There's a free, loose feel honing in at points on improvisational jazz and/or Can's galvanic sweep. \"Sjutton\"'s pronounced flute and cocky shaker keep time while the rest of the band swaggers and staggers alongside cymbal crashes. The blistering \"Christopher\" is a twominute showcase of sweaty, Hendrixian psychedelia, as well as a nod to darkminded LSD trips everywhere. Closer \"Badsang\" sounds very much like something you and yours would plug into while frolicking with water nymphs in a sunny, dusky forest, though the vibrational Dr. Who halfway point does grow a little lizardking creepy.As increasingly de rigueur reviews cloud the water, it should be interesting to see if Dungen can one day top Ta Det Lugnt, or if album three proves a magically brilliant and unrepeatable accomplishment. Regardless, they seem to be taking the success in stride, showcasing more than a few positivegrowth indicators including their emergence as a solid live band (and not simply an elaborate studio project), the decision to continue recording in Swedish, Ejstes' folk fiddle mastery, and the wellgrounded, astute experimentation suggested in their newer work. "}