{"label":" Warm","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2576/homepage_large.76f98e3e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Liz Durrett","title":"Husk","text":" Most American teenagers armed with pentup rural angst and a battered guitar proceed to wail, slash, and burn in an effort to quell their brokenlocker high school blues. Georgian Liz Durrett was not that kind of teenager. Sounding like a drowsier Chan Marshall, Durrett's quaint, folksy ghost stories seem far more mature than typical young pup fare it's difficult to imagine she was around the same age as Avril and Ashlee when she recorded Husk. Then again, most teenagers don't have Vic Chesnutt for a crazy uncle and guiding influence. Produced by the beloved paraplegic southern songwriter, this charmingly backwoods ninesong debut sees the now twentysomething Durrett airing out her spooky mid90s adolescent material in preparation for an album of more current songs due later this year.Husk is an odd family affair, to say the least. Think Partridge Family but uglier, deathobsessed, and with a sunburnt, junkyard car in place of the fruity schoolbus. Chesnutt, his wife, and Durrett's grandmother all contribute, with Vic steering the album's sparse arrangements and sometimes overbearing funeralwaltz mood. Unfortunately, Durrett's abstract, oddly spiritual lyrical tendencies are a far howl from her uncle's singularly witty narratives. \"There's the ghost of a beast in the woods,\" she sings in a peculiarly calm drawl on the title track, and much of the album features disconnected permutations on such vaguely haunting imagery and little more. The undeveloped facets of Durrett's nascent songwriting skills are often masked by her warm, natural vocals and her uncle's comfywoodenchair production but, with too few melodic or lyrical anchors, much of the deathly mystery surrounding Husk quickly evaporates into a hazy, nondescript mist typified by oneword song titles such as \"Slip\", \"Vine\", and \"Net\". Many songs drag and sway without leaving an impression; they fall into some kind of endless folk singersongwriter purgatory. Even with its nightmarish, echoedvibrato backups, \"Bc\" comes across as a boring, secondrate haunted hay ride. \"Net\" veers dangerously close to Lilith Fair banal acoustic balladry and is barely salvaged by Chesnutt's reliably minimal, resonant recording techniques. It's when Durrett focuses her songwriting that she becomes scarily good, as on the Silence of the Lambsstyle murky kidnapping tale \"Captive\". Oldtyme record player pops add to the harrowing theatrics as the deceptively placid singer emotes from a rusty, dripping basement, \"I sit in this corner with my hands bound and my eyes closed.\" The juxtaposition of Durrett's assured delivery and the song's prickly subject matter sends uncanny chills. As an introduction to a young talent, Husk shows promise but this earlyyears compilation doesn't quite hold together as an album on its own. Still, tracks like the relatively upbeat \"Lull\", \"Captive\", and the slowburning \"Husk\" provide compelling evidence that Durrett should be entered in the nextCat Power sweepstakes. "}