{"label":" The Legion","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2578/homepage_large.f0a12216.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Do or Die","title":"D.O.D.","text":" Hiphop eats its own. Artists who were once on top of the world are halfforgotten footnotes a few years later. But hiphop is also fiercely regional, and its backwaters are undyingly loyal to their hometown heroes. Chicago, the thirdlargest city in the nation, has only produced a few rap artists of note, and therefore remains a hiphop backwater. So when Do or Die the first hiphop group to bring a platinum record home to the Chi decide to mount a comeback, local royalty like R. Kelly and Kanye West line up to furnish them with beats and hooks. Former Do or Die protégéturnedsuperstar Twista helps out, as well. Do or Die need any help they can get. The trio comprised of AK, Nard, and Belo moved a million copies of its 1996 debut Picture This, but its three successive LPs have yielded diminishing returns. Worse, the group has little in the way of star quality or personality. Do or Die may have pioneered the Midwest quicktongue style that brought Twista to prominence and it's fun to hear rappers that genuinely enjoy practicing their craft but the group doesn't have a lot to say. AK and Belo rap quickly, and Nard raps slowly, but otherwise they're difficult to tell apart. When your album's only quotable lines come from a guest spot (Remy Ma on \"U Already Know\": \"I keep it pimpin', treat niggas like hoes/ Oh, I got dick in different area codes\"), you've got a problem. The group's lack of personality has a blankcanvas effect: The album is only as good as its beats. D.O.D. starts out strong with a few epic bangers but quickly dissolves into limp stepper's tracks. On N.O. Joe's bombastic operatic opener \"Right Here\", the group's members slow their flow down to a Scarface preacher boom, and it works. On Kanye West's phonedin, litefunk, cheesedout slow jam \"Higher\", the group sound completely lost, and it doesn't work. And so the album's one great track, \"Magic Chick\", is almost entirely the work of its producer and guest vocalist, one Robert Kelly. Kells turns in a deliciously slippery Easterninflected track with chilly winding acoustic guitars and a gorgeously tossedoff hook. Kelly also raps, dropping one of the sleazy, slippery bounce flows that he introduced on Unfinished Business. AK and Belo sound like they're having the time of their lives rapping over this monster, but they're not the stars of the track. They never are. "}