{"label":" Dim Mak","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2586/homepage_large.c723bb52.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Dance Disaster Movement","title":"Snow on the TV EP","text":" In the nebulous dancepunk scene, you can always count on two types of bands those that actually make danceable music (the Rapture), and those that make \"beats\" from intermittent computer blips and power drills, yet people dance to it anyway because, let's be honest, they'd probably grind to the sound of trashcans falling down a stairwell if DFA remixed it (Black Dice). With their proclivity towards both unapologetic noise and simple, repetitive song structures, Long Beach duo DDM, formerly Dance Disaster Movement, have been stuck in purgatory between the more leftfield dancepunk acts and the genre's dance floor darlings. That's not to say DDM march to the beat of their own drum instead, they march to a uniform beat for five minutes at a time, lacking the confidence and ingenuity to throw in a clever turn or slick breakdown. Critics and listeners alike claimed this monotony as their biggest beef with 2003's LP We Are from Nowhere, and DDM make minor adjustments to this major problem on Snow on the TV. \"Get Back on the Starting Line\", the EP's first track after 55second opener \"A Squared\", proves as much a retrograde version of \"Out of the Races and onto the Tracks\" as its title suggests. The song kicks off with thumping bass drum and male locker room chanting so far so good and then, after only 15 seconds, the band seemingly switches to autopilot, allowing Kevin Disco (ah, I get it, like discopunk!) to spew out halfbaked poetry and Jon Spenceraffected yelps. Perhaps the multiinstrumental Disco's got his talents spread too thin. He's still failing to realize his Arp Omni keyboard's potential, using it to produce digital vomit rather than anything remotely interesting. I understand DDM's shtick is predicated on punk buzzwords like \"visceral\" and \"inyourface\", but why on \"Hello\" are they continuously regurgitating their garbage noise beat as if it's the next \"Hey Ya!\"? But hey, as a consolation prize DDM at least offer up \"Turn 'On' On\", the first successful fusion of their many, widely publicized influences. It's a bit ESG, a bit PiL, a bit A Certain Ratio, yadda yadda yadda. What's most important, though, is the fact it takes off after the first promising, pounding 15 seconds rather than leaning on a bass drum beat for four minutes. Maybe considering this EP a single with six bsides would leave me less disappointed, but as a followup to Snow on the TV, DDM sounds DOA. "}