{"label":" Theory 8","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2588/homepage_large.cc44767c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"De Novo Dahl","title":"Cats & Kittens","text":" A band's ambition can be measured many ways concepts, scope of ideas, innovation, eclecticism, musicianship, songwriting, commercial aims. De Novo Dahl's first record is about as boldly ambitious as a band's first steps can get, and while it's not exactly a masterpiece, it's certainly not for lack of trying. De Novo Dahl are so eager to make an impact with their debut that they give it to you twice once in relatively straightforward, though never mundane, poprock arrangements (Cats) and again in a remixed, resequenced and retitled form (Kittens). The LP consists of 16 songs each presented twice in wildly divergent forms; as such, it takes a couple of listens for the full impact of it to sink in. Heck, the first time I listened I didn't even notice the remix conceit, so different are the remixes from their counterparts, though it was clear something was up based on the crazy mix of styles and sounds on Kittens relative to the unified, focused Cats. By the second listen, I had cheated and consulted the onesheet and since then it's been fun determining which tracks correspond to which, not to mention taking in the dizzying array of sounds the band cooks up to throw at you. For the sake of quick reference, I'd say the best aesthetic precedent for Cats & Kittens, at least in terms of the mix of styles, is Super Furry Animals' Guerrilla, an album that similarly tossed bighooked guitar pop, electronic weirdness, and anglo funk into the same salad. Like I said, Cats is a fairly unified, focused album in its own right, though the band's sense of weirdness does burst through on occasions like the spontaneous burst of laughter on \"Monday Morning\". Mostly, though, Cats is stuffed with cranking indie pop anchored by a solid rhythm section and topped by keyboards and the spirited interaction of three different vocalists. Highlights from the first disc include the opener, \"All Over Town\", which follows infectious, pumping verses with a huge chorus backed by grinding lead guitar phrases. The band's great sense of dynamics is on full display on \"I Woke Up Late\", with verses full of boyboygirl harmonies and bouncing bass alternating with big, surprising multitracked choral passages and sections where the beat mostly drops out, leaving behind only tambourine to keep the time. Elsewhere, \"The Funk\" swerves between brightly melodic disco and crunchy rock without trying to be dancepunk, \"Piggy's Adventure\" sports David Carney's most ridiculously sweet bassline to back up Serai Zaffiro's spoken vocal, \"Be Your Man\" is allout power pop stuffed with Marc Bolanesque \"ohohoh\"s and flurrying keyboards, and \"Conquest at Midnight\" is a loopy duet sung over Joey Andrews' propulsive drums and insistent piano rhythms. It's a lot to take in, especially considering that there's a whole second disc we haven't even addressed yet. The Kittens material ranges from exhilarating oddness to confounding electropop, but it's never boring or predictable. The rocketing, strutting power pop of \"Be Your Man\" becomes \"Wanna Beer Man?\", the crispy guitars stripping away in favor of efficient Teutonic synthpop, while \"Dinosaurs!\" discos up \"Jeffrey\" for something that sounds like the Flaming Lips backing a Travolta throwdown on a lighted floor. \"Magic\" is like ELO colliding with Trio, while \"Rhythm, phd.\" is a straight is a thumping dancefloor raver that shows the band can be convincing even when dabbling. The net impression left by the two discs of Cats & Kittens is one of a confident, talented band letting its collective imagination run wild, deconstructing it own ideas and recycling them into something new. It's functionally two albums for the price of one and different people will prefer different discs, but at any rate it's a damn impressive debut overflowing with mostly realized ambition. "}