{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13387/homepage_large.f58925c3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Dead Machines","title":"Futures","text":" Comprised of the husbandandwife duo of Wolf Eyes' John Olson and Tovah O'Rourke, who has released music with Wooden Wand & the Vanishing Voice among others, Dead Machines specialize in their own unique brand of disintegrated electronic noise. Futures, the latest fruit of their union, is their first recording to see any kind of widespread CD release, although it'd be incorrect to consider it a true debut. Both partners operate their own microlabels Olson with his American Tapes imprint and O'Rourke comanages Polyamory and have previously released umpteen Dead Machines works in tiny editions in virtually every format imaginable, as well as a 2004 fulllength LP on Ecstatic Peace. Even so, this album has the feel of a comprehensive introduction, as its five extended, untitled tracks completely immerse the listener in the duo's seemingly unmapped wasteland of manipulated feedback, hissing static, and hotwired electronics. It's an intense, uncompromising exhibition; one that's sure to tantalize veteran noise hedonists (who can certainly feel free to mentally adjust the above rating upwards a couple clicks) but is unlikely to recruit many new converts to the cause. Departing somewhat from the punkbred approach of Wolf Eyes and their unkempt Midwestern kin, Dead Machines here generally forgo the metalinflected, doomladen shriek of acts like Merzbow or Kevin Drumm in favor of cleaner, more diffuse abstractions whose ambient, eerily detached pulsations are at times reminiscent of such electronic minimalists as Kazunao Nagata and others from Japan's Zero Gravity label. If Wolf Eyes can occasionally sound like an squad of robots armed with bandsaws descending upon a crowded cattleyard, Dead Machines instead favor the sound of those same robots lying prone in a state of decay, their batteries corroded, their circuit boards shorted and crackling. On first pass, the album's progression sounds almost arbitrary, as each track cycles through a virtually untraceable series of sputtering audio waves and tortured mechanical clatter in a manner that suggests little intervention by its human operators. Upon repeat listens, however, patterns begin to emerge reluctantly from the squall, and though it's probably inaccurate to suggest that Futures contains much in the way of an organized structure, the album does reveal the duo's recognizable fingerprints as they intuitively shape the music's unstable, textured contours. This sense of distinctive individual authorship is crucial to the album's appeal, as without it the duo's sound risks becoming overwhelmingly sterile and faceless. If there's a central dissonance at the core of the Dead Machines experience it stems from their creation of these carefully handcrafted audio artifacts that too often sound as though they could've been created by anyone in possession of the same busted equipment, or even independently of human musicians altogether. And I suspect it's this conflict that will, for too many listeners, make Futures feel like more of an impenetrable wall than a doorway. "}