{"label":" Koch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2597/homepage_large.29c4a4cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Dipset","title":"More Than Music, Vol. 1","text":" If, as crew mixtapes go, Dipset's new More Than Music, Vol. 1 is a cut above the typical riffraff, does that mean the Dipset emcee is superior to his counterpart in Ruff Ryders or GUnit? No, it's a package deal. Even with threefour hitters Cam'ron and LaRon \"Juelz Santana\" Jones skewing the group average, Dipset has its acknowledged bench players. But with most products of its kind coming off as secondstringer pity parties, More Than Music is generously well apportioned, complete with assiduous rapping, pricey beats, and packaging that wasn't printed on a cousin's Epson. For New York crews, mere proliferation isn't good enough; world domination is more their speed. Dipset has similarly highminded ambitions, and if you've missed its highfalutin talk of spearheading a new Harlem Renaissance, the title track clarifies: Amid thunder claps, a sermoning voice announces, \"In the beginning of this movement, it was all a dream. The passion...the dedication...the persistence...TO ACHIEVE GREATNESS.\" Talk of movements is hardly cutting edge, but Dipset infuses even its fluffiest shittalkin' with ungodly energy. To hear the opener's stony, swelling strings is to feel the world shifting beneath your feet. But how much of this is just \"Final Countdown\" quixotism? Depending on who's blogging, a lot or more. Is Dipset the most galvanizing crew in hip hop, or another peacocking cadre? Yes. All that chest puffing is part of what makes them so gripping. Juelz Santana calls himself \"crack in the flesh\" and his best tracks make you believe it. Cam specializes in corner talk, but his is a unique breed, full of doublespeak, circular logic, and fantastical imagery. He scampers around boilerplate topics like a jester, abstracting and obstructing like he's too smart to help it. Even those apprenticed to the head honchos are coming up strong. So, cardboard moralists dismiss at will, but Dipset outstrips the species norm by a crosstown block. Above all, Dippers be thuggin' to the sound of Dips all razoring strings, airtight beats, and clenchedteeth deliveries. That sound is a shot of stanozolol wherever MTM threatens to wane, which is often enough. Believe it or not, at 67 minutes, the album has some soft spots. But the triumphant opener \"Dipset Symphony\" is not such a spot. More rag than symphony, the track rides a rickety piano roll while 16's fly by at a frantic clip. (Featuring no fewer than six emcees and the hypeman's bloviating inside of three minutes, it's the album's busiest number.) No one quite steals the show, but Santana christens the melee (\"All eyes on the honorable. Who?/ Dipset, back to the grill again. Live at the barbeque.\"). Among the understudies, J.R. Writer is my frontrunner to crash the big leagues. He takes \"You Make Me Say\", a bittersweet, 6/8feel beat from Heatmakerz, and delivers Camlean verses in his own, edgier voice (\"See you draped in designer wear/ Nice clothes/ Like those?/ I'll take you to buy a pair/ Where? That's Paris to Milan/ Fill your bag up with Vuitton/ You the baddest and the bomb/ Understand, I'm a rapper with some charm/ Don't worry 'bout the little groupies grabbing on my arm\"). Close behind Writer may be recent Dipset newie (and charter female member) Jha Jha. She spits on the immaculate \"So Gangsta\", which samples Aalon Butler's 1977 semiclassic \"Rock and Roll Gangster\". Unlike, say, Three 6 Mafia's Gangsta Boo, who reaches down into her belly for her rhymes, Jha isn't afraid of the higher registers. Considering the typically slipshod nature of these things and a scant three appearances from Cam'ron More Than Music should be worse. But Dipset economized the album is low on skits (there's only one) and superstar cameos (again, only one, as Fabolous drops in on Santana's thrilling \"What's It Gon' Be\") to make room for its lesserknown emcees. When blessed with the type of talent Dipset has among its top brass, that kind of generosity is heartening. When the fledglings deliver like sturdy bluechippers, that's astonishing. Dipset group hug (no homo). "}