{"label":" DFA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2605/homepage_large.25cf0cde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Delia Gonzalez and Gavin Russom","title":"The Days of Mars","text":" New York transplants Delia Gonzalez and Gavin Russom the DFA duo who don't play dance punk, noise, or death disco (except when performing as Black Leotard Front) are keeping busy by playing art gallery installations and skipping stones across the same cosmic lake as forefathers Tangerine Dream, Terry Riley, and stone cold Mike Oldfield. In some other universe (which they are doubtlessly exploring in between building analog synthesizers and soundtracking video art), they are superstars, riding the wave of metaconsciousness, outlining patterns that only make sense when you look at them a millions miles away. The dancers in this universe don't need hooks, because hooks only interrupt the flow. But what do Gonzalez and Russom sound like here and now? Is it enough to remaster forms mastered thirty years ago by people with a lot fewer expectations for sounding cool? And is postmodernism here to eat us all and throw away the bones? The short truth is \"no, with a but\": If you're looking for flawlessly crafted minimalism, no less spacey than any of the duo's professed influences (throw in New Age pioneer Vangelis for good measure), The Days of Mars delivers. In fact, in terms of the genre, its four expansive pieces should be held as models of textbook precision. However, I can't shake the feeling that there's something missing. Though not a note is wasted, or drone abused, there's opacity to the music that ultimately leads me feeling a little malnourished. Of course, I also can't shake the feeling that I've heard this before, but that's not the root of why it doesn't stick: Maybe Gonzalez and Russom are craftspeople in a pool of artists. Or, maybe there really is only so much that can be wrung from a single chord progression but no, that's actually one of their strengths, treading the milky regions of The Singularity, perfectly at home with both advanced technology and the primordial One. No, I think the main problem with the album is that unless I make a conscious (or chemically enhanced) decision to invest myself in it, it seems just pleasant and as ephemeral as dark matter. That said, I can't fault it on purely musical grounds. The late 2003 single \"Rise\" vibrates like a strobe light, with synthesized open fifths and the distant ring of overtones created by the natural resonance of layers upon layers of electronic tones. The minorkey (or more accurately, \"mode\" this kind of harmony both predates and usurps traditional keys) figures operate in almost complete symbiosis, each connected to the last; should one fall apart, the whole piece changes color. Of course, willing participants will find it abundantly hypnotic, but even if you want to use \"Rise\" as background music, an orchestra of sine waves has a tendency to work wonders on the mind. Likewise, \"13 Moons\", though less propulsive than \"Rise\", seems at once distantly cosmic and conventionally pretty. Gonzalez and Russom are hardly inaccessible artists. \"Black Spring\" is probably the most familiar sounding track on the album for me, especially after years of hearing film scores rip off Oldfield's \"Tubular Bells\". The flip side is that it's also very easy to recommend spacey newcomers dive into its near13 minute sonic arc. The Days of Mars is in fact a great introduction to \"space music\" in general just don't blame me if I return for repeat plays less often than for, say, TD's Phaedra or Riley's Persian Surgery Dervishes. Still, in a landscape full of seen and unseen phenomena, where the unknown seems almost passé, Gonzalez and Russom make music for taking things in stride. By turns bleak and beautiful, this is music for a new, but vaguely familiar world. "}