{"label":" Secret Eye","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2612/homepage_large.1118ab56.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Directing Hand","title":"Bells For Augustin Lesage","text":" The story goes that French artist Augustin Lesage didn't begin to paint until the age of 36, when he received instruction during a séance from spirit voices advising him, \"Have no fear, follow our advice. One day you will become a painter...We will guide your hand.\" So Lesage obediently began to spend his free time painting, believing his work to be fully dictated and channeled through him by unseen forces. And on Bells For Augustin Lesage, the latest recording from Alex Neilson's solo/group project Directing Hand, it appears that the musicians have taken to heart Lesage's creative principles, particularly his overriding doctrine: \"Do not try to understand what you are doing.\"  Following a couple of limited edition CDRs, Bells For Augustin Lesage essentially stands as Directing Hand's debut album, and as such offers the best vantage yet of Neilson's unique talents. A prolific Scottish free percussionist, Neilson has played alongside Will Oldham, Richard Youngs, and Alasdair Roberts and his underground credentials are such that in 2004 he was enlisted to play drums for Jandek's first live performance. Although Directing Hand is billed as a solo vehicle, Neilson here receives help from such likeminded compatriots as Christina Carter, Isobel Campbell, and Scatter's Chris Hladowski. Together these gathered musicians resemble a small ceremonial orchestra, their music a tranquil swarm of honeyed drones, fluttering percussion, and unbound, heavencast vocals. Despite the presence of two classic British folk ballads, \"Hangman\" and \"Lowlands\", there is little about Bells that translates as traditional folk. Instead, Directing Hand use these ballads as points of entry into their ecstatic, unclassifiable improvisations, much in the manner of experimental Finnish collectives like Avarus or Kemialliset Ystävät. (Enough so, in fact, to suspect that Neilson might perhaps have some Finnish blood in him somewhere.) Behind these ballads' slender vocal melodies, the ensemble uses a spectacle of ragged strings, bowed cymbals, and shepherd's horns to refract the songs' lyrical, melancholic longing into distinctive and uncommonly tactile new forms. Prior to these ballads, Directing Hand walk other medieval avenues, as on the solitary drone of the opening invocation \"Beamsley Beacon\", or the splintered Harry Partch rattle of the extended \"Black Herman\". Another peak is reached on \"Tongue of the Bell\", an 11minute epic that stands as perhaps the purest distillation of the group's peculiar communal power, incorporating skronky European jazz, shimmering vocal chants, and skywide metalwork drones into its motley bedlam. Throughout the album, Neilson and the rest of his ensemble perform with the loose, softfocused attention of a medium awaiting further instructions from beyond. And while there are obviously certain structural limits to this manner of automatic composition, Bells For Augustin Lesage proves Directing Hand capable of tremendous shamanic heights, whoever its ultimate spiritual author might be.  "}