{"label":" Laboratory Instinct","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2616/homepage_large.95b64461.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Dell and Flügel","title":"Superstructure","text":" Roman Flügel is one of techno's great shapeshifters, recording everything from crunching electro, drum & bass so spare it sounds as if it was made out of twigs and debris, and every shade of house from tribal to deep to protomicro to acid revival. But Pitchfork readers without deep crates probably know him best as the creator of two of the most inescapable techno anthems of the past two years: \"Gehts Noch?\" (under his own name) and \"Rocker\" (as one half of Alter Ego). These two riff wraiths would do Angus Young and DJ Pierre equally proud. There's very little anthemic about Superstructure, however, and even less that's rockin'. Instead, Flügel's collaboration with vibraphonist Christopher Dell turns the concept of \"jazzy techno\" on its head. Fading in on some liquid synth pads and gently brushed, twitchy hihats reminiscent of the straighter Farben tracks, the opening title track is quickly upended by a fountain of vibes from Dell. Flügel's beat constructions tease and hint at traditionally club friendly sounds like house and techno and even a kind of lopsided hiphop without actually coming out and stating them, as Dell sprinkles runs of vibes like Pollock tossing pigment. \"Habitation\" recalls the starved drum & bass Flügel has made under the Eight Miles High alias, while \"Miniaturisation\" provides what you'd expect, an almost microtonal duet for drums and vibes that barely resolves into anything as coarse as a groove. \"4 Door Body Cell\" hews closer to traditional techno, but it's traditionalism pales compared to the more outre experiments, whether they congeal or not. (They usually do.)  Dell is a classically trained vibist whose insistence on repetition has put him at odds with \"free\" jazz orthodoxy even as it puts him in close proximity to techno. And at its best Superstructure has a hands on, jammed feeling that rubs with productive friction against the rigidity of drum machines. Superstructure is a dark but not oppressive album; the cover, featuring thin white line schematics over a solid black background captures the feeling as much as anything. Dell and Flügel have made an album that recognizes jazz as an engine for improvisation rather than organ or piano samples to be draped over a 4/4 beat. At times it reminds you of everything from the crooked spines of Eric Dolphy's Out to Lunch to the astroblack portamento funk of Herbie Hancock's Mwandishi band. There's no randomization function that can make an album like this.  "}