{"label":" The Great Vitamin Mystery","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2632/homepage_large.c3ebc08d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Early Day Miners / Unwed Sailor","title":"Stateless","text":" Musical collaborations are a risky business. Even if the artists involved are brilliant, there's a tendency for them to sink to the lowest common denominator during the recording process, resulting in albums that are either lifeless bores or cartoonish fiascoes. Just look at the Mick Jagger/David Bowie abomination \"Dancing in the Streets\" if you need proof of the latter. This, of course, is a worstcase scenario, but it just goes to show that you've gotta be careful when looking to collaborative albums for your musical fix. In the rare cases where they work, they offer something distinct. Combining to create a special chemistry, each extracts something from the other that otherwise affect the music for example, say, Waylon and Willie, or, uh, John Denver and the Muppets.Stateless is a threeway collaboration between the Seattle/Chicagobased instrumental trio Unwed Sailor, Indiana's mostly instrumental quartet Early Day Miners, and photographer Chris Bennett. Over the course of a weekend last spring, the two bands got together and dreamt up this score to Bennett's grainy and haunting Super 8 footage, which was filmed on various trips across the United States and Europe. The resulting music is something like Mark Hollis leading Tristeza, though it definitely leans more towards the Muppet end of the above spectrum.Unwed Sailor is still probably bestknown because Pedro the Lion's David Bazan once drummed for them, and the driving force behind the band, Jonathan Ford, used to be a member of the storied band Roadside Monument. Likewise, Early Day Miners are still working at shedding the specter of the fabled band from which they sprang: the recently reformed but longdefunct Ativin.Stateless offers five songs, clocking in at a very digestible 30 minutes, a major concern when dealing with music that moves at such a glacierpace. But, like a glacier, it can be incredibly powerful over time. The songs seem to have been mapped out on the large scale, allowing plenty of room for improvisation within the expanse. There is, however, one actual \"song,\" with vocals from EDM's Dan Burton, that's perfectly placed dead center on the album, creating a nice overall flow and bridging the longer ambient drones and mathy picking that bookend the album.Bennett's film is also included with the disc as a Quicktime file, and I highly recommend watching it along with the music. Although this presents a problem for people like me with horrible computer speakers; music this subtle loses a lot of its character when piped through tiny Koss amplifiers. Of course, you don't get the complete statement without the accompanying images, and to be totally honest, the music doesn't exactly provide a fully encompassing sonic experience on its own. If you've got the proper equipment to witness the A/V assault, Stateless at least offers a fine alternative to the dreck being sent through the digital wires of expanded cable these days. If not, there's always Denver & Henson.  "}