{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2634/homepage_large.727593a1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Early Day Miners","title":"All Harm Ends Here","text":" It's probably no coincidence that the cover of Early Day Miners' fourth album, All Harm Ends Here, depicts a verdant, upwardreaching patch of forest against a big open sky. The Miners' style of cozy, indolent slowcore is like a person who never gets out of bed: Lost in farreaching escape dreams, but utterly trapped. Where all harm ends, so do schedules, responsibility, and ambition. Unburdened, the Early Day Miners' trot is a slow one. They seem neither overjoyed nor panicked by their selfimposed isolation; rather, their music reeks of a panging, misanthropic bereavement. \"Errance\" is the getaway anthem. The song is moody and weighed down but not indolent: Propelled by a polyrhythmic drumbeat, it reveals emocore and mathrock leanings. Early Day Miners' cushy threeguitar front line best employed here recalls the towering, interwoven melodies of Juno. \"Townes\" unfurls lazily, with a big, weepy, open sound that brings to mind My Morning Jacket or Songs: Ohia. But by and large, Early Day Miners prefer a spacier, more atmospheric style of slowcore, far removed from the melodrama of bands like Low or Red House Painters. Dan Burton doesn't yowl or weep; rather, he sings as if he may have been told to hush a lot as a child. A bit of exaggeration might help: The band often seem bored by their own efforts. For all its droopiness, All Harm Ends Here doesn't engage sadness but toils obliviously in it like a threeweek beard. \"The Union Trade\" takes a jittery oddtime frame and renders it comatose. \"Comfort/Guilt\", despite a peppier, shakerdrawn beat, is underpinned by a fusty synth drone, which jives awkwardly with the band's organic mantra. \"All Harm\", the quasititle track, fares much batter, featuring a crocheted guitar melody, bright and beautiful for its welldrawn opaqueness. As deftly as Early Day Miners work their craft, the slowcore aesthetic is still pegged in an outmoded, mid90s frame of mind. All Harm Ends Here is hushed and apocryphal, but at times it sounds almost as halfhearted as it is heavyhearted. The album also pits a nagging inclination to move forward against ruthlessly maintained simplicity. Unfortunately, Early Day Miners choose the comfort of stasis, where their music quickly grows an uneventful wash: How are we supposed to stay engaged when the band act like their own rope has run out? "}