{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13391/homepage_large.63157957.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Echoboy","title":"Volume One","text":" Echoboy Richard Warren almost ended up in Oasis. He could have been strumming the chords to \"Wonderwall\" or close harmonizing with the monobrow Gallagher brothers. He declined their Neanderthal entreaties and cast aside the chance to contribute to the greatest rock and roll swindle since Guru Josh was denied his hardearned place in Sheffield's Rock and Roll Museum. As you read this, Warren may be in a parallel universe blundering through the guitar tabs for \"Glass Onion\" or commenting on Liam's lyrical innovations (\"I am a polyurethane parsnip/ I wander where my fancy takes me/ Then again I sometimes stay home with the wife/ And play whist\"). He may be as \"mad for it\" as his fellow dribbling band mates. He may already have been \"outrageously\" arrested for possession of two grams of recreational PCP. We don't know. Not even Bill Nye knows. Luckily for us, we don't inhabit that universe. And I think Warren is happy about that good fortune, too. Because if we were spinning around in that nastiverse, Warren wouldn't be free to express his deliciously skewed notions of \"pop.\" Pop, as it's presently packaged, is the polar opposite of rage rock. Pop is therefore either the sly jailbait purr of Britney Spears or the NAMBLAapproved falsetto of N'Sync. Echoboy wants Volume One to appeal to those confused about where to align ourselves. Do I devolve several steps down my phylum and invest in the Sony compilation Music for Date Rape? Or do I sport Abercrombie threads and risk being considered effete at best, a right twat at worst? It's not Mother Nature that forces us to make such delineated decisions; it's your evilly pimpalicious stepfather, Capitalism, and his malevolent MC, Creation of Demand. Not only does Echoboy want to offer an alternative to the above dilemma, he also wants to garner some of the applause reserved for experimental artists, too. Rather than being an arthouse poseur like labelmates Appliance, Warren's strategy is to touchingly reference his skinny installationwhore buddies and sprinkle pop dust atop and throughout their clickcutanddrone confections. For example, \"Kit and Holly\" comes on like Spaceman 3 on nitrous oxide. Boppy drones and contently eerie synth strings accompany a giddy Warren vocalizing his joys. And though I can detect traces of Playing with Fire throughout the track, I concentrate on Warren's unfettered, bewildering delight. Kit and Holly must be beautiful people and even better as a pair. You can't honestly say that about many of our species. Initially \"Model 352\" recalls the amphetamine electro of Suicide's \"Cheree,\" but Warren soon bores of the sulfate NYC 1970s and decamps to the claustrophobic sounds of Neu!'s Cologne. Rather than wanting to hurl himself from the 750yearold cathedral spire of Cologne's main tourist attraction (medieval places of worship can sure be used as agents of Demand, says your evil stepdaddy!), Warren finds majesty and glamour amid the smogincrusted stones. \"Model 352\" begins to ascend in a glorious revelation of unforeseen verticality. And dollars to donuts, I bet not even Mandy Moore can even bring your town perv to such ecstatic heights. From there, Warren flies us to \"Constantinople.\" Amid the chirps of carapaced nocturnal beasties, Warren yanks the oriental melodica from the cold lips of deceased dub legend Augustus Pablo and riffs away until a barrage of white noise beats crush that ancient city into the malaria mud of the Bosphoros. But the melody seeps out of the ooze and proudly reprises itself once, before evaporating into whiffs of Turkish delight. Whether Warren wanted to scoop the world's zoologists or not, his \"Crocodile Milk\" introduces a hitherto unaware world to the sound of reptilian lactation. And what a disorienting sound it is! Bowed guitars thrim and scourge! Cologne Cathedral's organ plangently tones! The whole of Spiritualized's Royal Albert Hall rushes at me in fewer than six minutes! My heart beats thunderously! Now you understand why he would decline the Gallaghers' hairypalmed offer. Echoboy slakes our thirst for accessible but quirky pop. He's not bursting to sound like a Tortoise side project like Kieren Hebden's Fridge outfit. He doesn't cling to retrofuturisms like Appliance and Trans Am, nor does he gild the lily like squirmtronicians such as Schneider TM and To Rococo Rot. And unlike Sean O'Hagan's High Llamas, who thrive on turning pop into dusty museum exhibits, Volume One succeeds by courting lipgloss dalliances with the avantgarde, while showing off a coquettish midriff. It's a far more alluring sight than the Gallaghers' hirsute jowls, I assure you. "}