{"label":" Vagrant","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2665/homepage_large.8fde09e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Eels","title":"Blinking Lights and Other Revelations","text":" Dear Editors: Since I was assigned to cover the Eels' new album, Blinking Lights and Other Revelations, I have suffered a serious downturn in mental health. Repeatedly listening to the 90 minutes of music spread across two discs has sunk me into a deep clinical depression that has interfered with my job performance and home life. Therefore, I have no choice but to file a workman's compensation claim to cover the medical expense accrued in the course of this occupational injury. Please find enclosed receipts and insurance forms for therapy visits, prescriptions for Prozac and Wellbutrin, and experimental acupuncture treatments. Thank you. Mark Oliver Everett is what epidemiologists and Dustin Hoffman call a hotspot, a highly contagious carrier of an extremely virulent disease who infects anyone who crosses his path. With each album the selfabbreviated E releases upon the unsuspecting world, waves of melancholy diffuse outward like an oil slick, engulfing all who dare to listen. Six records into a career most thought would fizzle into little more than inclusion on The Buzz compilation, Everett has proved a persistent auteur obsessed with human emotion, following his mental health muse to increasingly elaborate sounds.Blinking Lights is a clear sign that Everett's fuel tank is not running dry; if anything, his momentum is only building. This time around, E has so many ways to describe his damaged psyche, it can't be contained by merely one disc, sprawling out to a runtime somewhere between Being There and Melon Collie. Within this extended framework, E finds the time to conduct thorough analyses of his sadness via a slew of genres and lyrical approaches, like he's trying to exorcise the ghost that haunts him by attacking from every possible angle. Right about now is where you start to think I'm beating this angle into the ground, that I'm making fun of Everett for his lack of subject matter diversity. Trust me I'm not, and I grant that E certainly has the biographical details to support any degree of sustained mood disorder. But neither do I exaggerate the singlemindedness of his approach; every time he finds solace in the arms of a girl (\"Sweet L'il Thing\") or grows weary of the infinite sadness (\"Suicide Life\") it's followed up by an immediate bat to the knee, chasing any good vibes back into the closet. Of course, you might not pick up on this stationary raincloud just with a surface listen, as E continues to prove himself a master of wrapping depressive material in deceptively soothing or poppy packages. Whether it's the That Thing You Do parody of \"Goin' Fetal\", or The Soft Bulletin sweep of \"Old Shit/New Shit\", or the earlyperiod Tom Waits loungesleaze of \"Son of a Bitch\", Everett dips into 31 flavors of sound for the record's 33 tracks. Generally, the more elements Everett piles on, the more interesting things get, such as the \"Mr. Blue Sky\" orchestrics of \"Losing Streak\", or the surf drum/spaghetti western collision of \"Old Shit/New Shit\". Well, OK, maybe I'm overstating the variety for the sake of a bad icecream joke, as the majority of the tracks fall under the umbrella of slow guitar or piano dirges. Unfortunately, these are also the weakest of the bunch, the ones that find E veering most dangerously towards cliché and routine: peep the yikesmetaphor supporting the fauxcollar folk of \"Railroad Man\". They also tend to be the ones where he can't help but sound like Beck, with his raspy drone and taste for vocalfiltering. Of course, pilfering the melody for \"Nobody's Fault But My Own\" (\"In the Yard, Behind the Church\") doesn't help his cause. Here's the part where I fulfill my critic's duty by proclaiming that, as always, Blinking Lights would've been better as a single album, focusing less on the dull, Jon Brion clone theme song that recurs throughout, while also dropping a handful of the pianoandgroan duets. Ten years after \"Novocaine for the Soul\" was one of those weird, forgotten altrock hits, that same formula is still what works best for E: ethereal, odd, and catchy arrangements like album MVP \"Trouble with Dreams\"; songs that file the sharp corners off the dispiriting thesis statement for his career. There's a good album underneath all the filler probably the Eels' best since ElectroShock Blues but it'll take some editing to excavate it. "}