{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2667/homepage_large.8339d6c9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Ekkehard Ehlers","title":"Politik Braucht Neinen Feind","text":" I don't get easily offended. No matter how El Presidente (not the Domincan BUSCH, mind you) tried and tires to spin it, I refuse to allow my besieged heartstrings to be jerked into turgid stands for vengeance, selfrighteousness, or freedom forkingover. While someone will undoubtedly see the cover of German Powerbook composer Ekkehard Ehlers' newest and get all Bill O'Reillyed up and go running to their gun rack to grab their Toby Keith doublebarreled \"Foot in yer Ass/ Head up Mine\" Equalizer, I am trying to keep a cool head. But the new studio compositions of Ekkehard Ehlers really irk me. While America xenophobically crawls up its own ass, backpedaling from treaties, wary of any and all intruders and work visas (back to Krauttown with you, Damo Suzuki), a similar sense of conservativism and movement towards more traditionally classical sounds is at work in experimental music as well. The most glaring examples so far this year have been longincubating new works by premiere electronics composers like Japan's Ryoji Ikeda and Germany's Ekkehard Ehlers that forego technology: the former decided that the sound of a rosined bow on strings was so amazing, he tried to make a whole record out of it, and now Ehlers is similarly infatuated, adding the sounds of spittled lips on a bass clarinet reed. A three piece composition for bass clarinet based on the floor plan of the Kunsthalle Schim Frankfurt, \"Mäander\" begins in an eerie, droning rasp, the breath of Burkhard Kunkel billowing through the wooden instrument like so many ghosts. Last year's astute observers will remember a portion of Ehlers' Plays dedicated to Albert Ayler by way of cutup cellos, and it's a formula that Ehlers sticks with here. There's a wavering, wispy sustenance Ehlers grasps at, and sometimes keeps aloft, barely revealing the wires he employs to pull off such levitation. At times it reminds me of the similarly focused clarinet explorations that Jimmy Giuffre respired so resplendently on his solo flights of fancy in Free Fall. Eric Dolphy's angelic fluttering on \"God Bless the Child\" stirred up in my head as well, as it too moves from melody to \\\\ melody, humming through the appartus itself and back in a flicker. Where these were all about exploration and infinite possibilities in the exquisite, fleeting melodicism of hallowed sound, Ehlers stays stubbornly singleminded, focusing on mere textures and extended techniques, layering one breath upon the other until the supposed chamber sound of a woodwind ensemble is achieved. Even the collaborative duos of Evan Parker and Lawrence Casserley found a way to take a similar concept of instrument and instant manipulation and do it in real time. Even with infinite time to process, Ehlers' take can't compare, settling unevenly in places, neither the notes nor their arrangements ultimately cohesive. \"Blind\" is as troublesome and unimpressive. Also built from cello, the compositional technique employed on the first piece is unchanged, as the bowed strings sputter and squeak over one another, bumping into the other 'players' (one player is turned into a quintet) and glitching out. A similar inability to gain momentum or sustain an ambiance of any duration leads to its shaky structure and temporality. Yet all is saved, with twentyone minutes of yet another artistic homage, \"Woolf Phrase\". Originally scored for William Forsythe and his dance company Ballett Frankfurt, \"Woolf Phrase\" revisits the ideas put forth in the Plays series, this time focusing on the ethereal grandeur from side one of John Cassavetes, looping a curl of strings and pulling it to a sad, sagging state of deliberate decay, allowing it to swirl at a slow, languid pace, making for a grave whirlpool of grandiose sounds as immersive and emotionally consumptive as the best of his works. Released in a limited edition on his own gallery label Whatness, it makes a greater impact here, vindicating the early meandering. All three pieces are dated from 2001, which makes me wonder what Ehlers might actually have been up to the last two years. He doesn't foresake his electronics, but he remains elementary in his investigations, leaving the deeper compositional problems unresolved. Hopefully it's just a slight pullback before new directions and syntheses of both the technological and classical; if anyone, Ekkehard Ehlers is capable of that. "}