{"label":" Definitive Jux","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2690/homepage_large.b93066c4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Hreha","artist":"El-P","title":"Fandam Plus: Instrumentals, Remixes, Lyrics & Video","text":" ElP's Definitive Jux label has made some serious headway over the past two years, gaining enough momentum to inflate it from fledgling dream to fullblown phenomenon. After a strong run at the end of its first calendar year with the Cannibal Ox and Aesop Rock records, 2002 saw Def Jux drop Bushworthy bombs in the form of RJD2's Deadringer and Mr. Lif's I Phantom. Yet the heaviest waves were reserved for the impresario himself, as ElP unleashed his first postCompany Flow work upon the hiphop world with the jawdropping beauty that was Fantastic Damage. Picking up exactly where he had left off with that groundbreaking trio's demise, Fantastic Damage showcased both ELdash's incomparable production talent (particularly for anyone who slept on Can Ox's The Cold Vein) and his considerable skills as an MC. Of course, CoFlow fans already knew and revered his gifts behind the boards and the mic, but the hype accumulated by the label's growing reputation as the Motown of indie hiphop only increased the record's promise for impact. These days, instrumental hiphop albums are generally suspect. Since The Instrumentalyst, it's almost as if hiphop crews feel an obligation the only problem being that not every extended family member is Dan the Automator. At best, they do offer some exposure for potentially overlooked DJs or producers; at worst they give someone the chance for some private (or public) fun, karaokestyle. But let's not forget that ElP released an instrumental hiphop album (Little Johnny from the Hospitul) with Company Flow that wasn't just a \"vocals surgically removed\" version of the alreadyhit record, but rather a fully conceived collection of instrumental tracks created by ElP and Mr. Len specifically for that project. In other words, the man has a little more cred than DJ Average or some other producer trying to milk his record for another dollar or two and furthermore, it made perfect sense for him to release an instrumental version of the Cannibal Ox record, especially considering that Vast Aire and Vordul are an admittedly acquired tastes as far as MCs go. Which brings us to Fandam Plus, the instrumental companion to Fantastic Damage. While it's certainly no replacement for the original a record justifiably present on any 2002 topten list that matters it does offer some valuable insights into ElP's production that aren't readily apparent on the vocal version. Take \"DeLorean\", for example, which, without the distraction of Ill Bill's knuckleheaded guest verse about getting his dick sucked in a strip club by a cokehead, shows how truly amazing the bridge's breakbeat is. \"Truancy\" provides another test case, one in which the lack of ElP's streamofconsciousness wordflow reveals the beat as the illegitimate offspring of the Beastie Boys' \"Looking Down the Barrel of a Gun\". And then there's \"Accidents Don't Happen\", which in instrumental form serves an even clearer reminder that ElP was incorporating Middle Eastern vibes into hiphop (see Company Flow's \"The Fire in Which You Burn\" from Funcrusher Plus) long before Missy Elliott and Timbaland made it fashionable. Of course, just as Newton's Law prescribes, for every great moment on Fandam Plus there's an equal and opposite reaction. \"Deep Space 9mm\", one of the original record's strongest highlights, sounds haphazard and clunky without ElP's meticulous verse to hold it all together. Similarly, both the title cut and \"TOJ\" come off rather flat without the vocals to set up each track's powerful dynamic shifts. But of all the instrumental mixes, \"Dr. Hellno Vs. The Praying Mantis\" probably disappoints the most it's still a fine slice of robofunk, but gets awfully monotonous without ElP's hallucinatory sexcapade narrative. As an added bonus, the second disc of Fandam Plus includes several appetitewhetting rarities that will most likely be the major selling point for Def Jukies. Of the remixed audio tracks, RJD2's deconstruction of \"Lazerface's Warning\" satisfies most deeply, particularly for turntabledeficient fans that missed the 12inch on which it originally appeared. RJD2 gives the cut a little more traditional hiphop flavor, courtesy of a tastefully scratched intro, tightenedup beat and supremely sick vocal sample that he weaves into the very fabric of the mix. Throw in a CDROM component with complete lyrics to the original album (to further fuel those karaoke dreams, even though you can't actually print out the damn things), the \"hiphop Taxi Driver\" video for \"Deep Space 9mm\", and some live performance footage (including a version of the rare Company Flow classic \"Patriotism\", which no fan should go without hearing) and you've got the makings of a real collectors' package. Unfortunately, what relegates Fandam Plus to the status of mere curiosity piece is that it really is just a \"vocals surgically removed\" version of Fantastic Damage. After serving up a record like that, our man ElProducto doesn't really need to prove his skills (surgical or otherwise), but if he'd made the effort to remix some elements of the backing tracks or switch up the running order, he might've achieved something closer to a kidney transplant than a tonsillectomy. "}