{"label":" Incidental","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2698/homepage_large.6a830ac7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Elders of Zion","title":"Dawn Refuses to Rise","text":" The dark ambient: often, we have hard beats and harder politics (buried or not in the mix), with the vocals most often piped in via DAT or found sound. We have guitars, but they're usually not playing like guitars, opting for figures more remote and abstract than anthemic. And how the synthesizers will drone on, like troubled waters raging beneath all the distorted calm and alien footwork by which the faceless soldiers who articulate this music traverse. Above all, I would say this kind of trip goes against the nature of nonaggressive expression, because when you're playing stuff that's more likely to scare your constituents than sooth them, chances are that your music will only get played by folks as dark or darker than you. This means that whatever hard politics or soft terror you want to transmit is probably doomed to onetoone transmissions rather than grassroots, populist revolution. Okay, so dark ambient music may not be so inherently subversive at heart, but when I think of many of its major proponents GYBE!, Keiji Haino, Richard Pinhas, KK Null, Nurse with Wound I usually do think of spooky, ultraserious exnoiseshamans who would sooner set fire to a government building than flash a smile. And that much of this music features the beamedin sounds of samples, field recordings and industrial commotion doesn't exactly lend it the human touch. Of course, that may be the point entirely. San Francisco's Elders of Zion comprised of coconspirators Joel Schalit (current editor of Punk Planet and exChristal Methodist) and Asphodel Records engineer Vance Galloway use these hallowed techniques to great effect, seemingly to raise awareness of some brand of leftist political rhetoric (though, the impression of this is more evident than an actual agenda set forth). Now, if revolution were the goal, then it would make sense not to muddy the message with atonal atmospherics, but to just come out and state your claims. However, if you just wanted to put a little scare on people, then records like Dawn Refuses to Rise would make a lot more sense. There's something ominous on the horizon, and I can't quite make out what it is, but it's bad, it's got serious politics and it's going to get you. Elders of Zion make their racket with traditional rock instrumentation (put through gosh knows how many layers of postproduction), and a library of spoken word samples, ranging from American protest demonstrations to Israeli children to Godardobsessed French Maoists. If that sounds a bit heavy to you, well, it is; but then the music, albeit dark, is never really angry or even all that loud, so if you felt like tuning it out, you probably could. The title track wastes no time in painting it all black with screeching guitar lines and orchestras of basses and synths and big drums, like the weird outro groove of the Beatles' \"Strawberry Fields Forever\" and an imaginary soundtrack to airplanes landing. Next: \"Future AvantGarde Society,\" despite being a lot faster, is exactly as thick and suffocating as the previous tune. Throughout the record, the band emphasizes their ability to turn any groove into a nightmarish vamp. There's a sample in this one that goes, \"The best noisemakers are not necessarily the best peacemakers.\" Damn right. Elsewhere, things get a tad more chemically enhanced. \"#1 in Gaza This Week,\" with its sireneffects and pounding, reverbladen beat, could be some kind of tonepoem for innercity strife (or some such relevant issue), but mostly just seems like an acid test gone awry. I could say the same for \"Eject the Push Button Punks,\" \"Rubber Bullet Rock\" and \"Like a Fish Out of Water,\" which modify the lysergic groove with hispeed dnb beats, reggae skank and sheer sonic pummeling via a restless snare and a manic electrodrone from synthesizer and guitar. The biggest issue I have with this record is that the best parts (hard beats, endless arrays of psycheeffects and apocalyptic feedback) can become a bit mindnumbing after a while, to the point that they end becoming the worst parts. Drummer Luis Illades must have permanent bruises on his fingers from these sessions, and I would hate to have coleaders Joel Schalit and Vance Galloway's eardrums, voluntarily subjected to hours of militant protest field recordings and far gone space effects. Again, it's not really that loud, but they just never let up. If you can handle the trip, Dawn Refuses to Rise can be a rather fascinating travel guide for journeys into the outer regions. "}