{"label":" Mr. Lady","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2699/homepage_large.2555961c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Electrelane","title":"Rock It to the Moon","text":" Instrumentals literally don't say anything. They can express almost anything, but they can also give a crutch to someone who has nothing to talk about. Lately, we've also gotten \"film music\": instrumentals that bands write for a movie (often an obscure one), or that were written in a form that sounds like a narrative. In other words, it's music that was made for a film that you will never see. Records like this all ten of John Zorn's Filmworks discs come to mind have builtin crutches, because the listener already knows something will be missing. We have to trust the band that the sex scene, gun fight or television commercial looks as cool as the theme music. The British fourpiece Electrelane play almost nothing but instrumentals on their debut, Rock It to the Moon. The album sounds cinematic, and yet it's definitely more than just background music. Take the second track, \"Long Dark,\" which opens slowly with a throbbing bass and the sound of Mia Clarke scraping her guitar strings. The tension builds as Clarke kicks off a \"Peter Gunn\" guitar line and Verity Susman pulls up with her stabbing, needletoned Farfisa. They tear it up for a couple of minutes, switch to a slow part, and then rip it up again. Ten minutes, three segues, all rock. There's only one problem: all of the songs sound like that. The tunes shift exclusively between \"fast\" and \"slow,\" and they have so many transitions that playing the whole record is like watching eleven car chases in a row. Even if there's a narrative, the song titles don't help us find it: one song, for example, is simply called \"Film Music.\" The two songs with lyrics are concise, and Rachel Dalley's whale songlike bass both relaxes as well as compels. But the album runs for over an hour, and much of the wind is sucked out by the time they hit \"Mother,\" the most knucklesplitting piece on the album. In small doses, however, it's terrific. There's no doubt Electrelane could beat up everybody in Godspeed You Black Emperor!. Mike Patton's Fantômas may get in and out quickly, and Tortoise may have nice textures, but they can't match Electrelane for volume: without solos, hooks, or blatant virtuosity, they kick out music that flares overhead like rockets and flaming school buses. And that may be why Rock It to the Moon seems deficient it doesn't take an hour for them to make their point. The first time I heard them, I wondered if Electrelane play movies when they're on stage. As it turns out, last summer they arranged their set around films by JeanLuc Godard. Maybe if they can get Godard to contribute lyrics next time out they'll have a bigger winner. "}