{"label":" Too Pure","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2700/homepage_large.3c2d54bb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Electrelane","title":"The Power Out","text":" Inevitably busted for borrowing Stereolab's farfisa and monotone vocals, there's a more riotous irreverence beneath Electrelane's mod cons. Equally inspired by The Raincoats and Jacques Brel, The Power Out veers from one inspired genre tribute to the next, if it never quite cements the band's identity. After an uneventful launch in their native England earlier this year buoyed by a nowpredictable Peel Session and proximate hype from fellow Brighton acts Electric Soft Parade and British Sea Power the band's upcoming 2004 spring tour of America looks to be their last chance to move out of the independent shadows. The wildly varied opening tracks on this album are almost political in their polarity: Beginning with a rousing, overcast memorial for British guitar pop, the drifting \"Gone Under Sea\" is foiled by the stop/start birdcalls of the album's advance single, the harsherthanHynde \"On Parade\". Taking things further off the expected path, \"The Valleys\" invokes one of the leastcopped sounds in music history, the 1960s gospel hymn. Backed by a 12person choir, the quartet's hitherto hidden voices hold their own, controlling the mezzo range nicely. Curiously, this stylistic hodgepodge was documented by Steve Albini, who was somehow impressed by the quartet's frankly amateurish postrock debut, and offered to record their first foray into scripted vocal territory in Chicago last year. Following The Power Out's disparate opening salvos, mellow midtempo ditties like \"Birds\" and \"Enter Laughing\" offer what most people would expect from Electrelane: rainyday Parisian postpop topped with disenchanted Sadier vocals. It was a surprise, then, to find these ladies competing with precursors like Th' Faith Healers on the outstanding \"This Deed\", far and away their best moment to date. If it's not the most original sound on the market, Electrelane seem more connected and invested in tunes that spice up Stereolab's chic façade with unguarded heartache. Wearing recent interests on their Trevira sleeves, the album closes with its three most incongruous missteps: \"Love Builds Up\" and \"Only One Thing Is Needed\" are alternately mellow and brash runs through upstroke antidisco, the latter getting very far ahead of itself thanks to the band's recent infatuation with Peaches. Perhaps most bizarrely, the album closes with a halftime drum and piano piece that's so disconnected from everything Electrelane have done, it's hard to believe they didn't hold it back for a Bside, given the established UK practice of releasing indie singles. Forgiving its lackluster final movement, the cool distance and unrepentant pluralist joy of The Power Out's first eight cuts trumps Electrelane's overzealous competition, indirectly exposing militaristic boy bands desperate to be taken seriously while playing the same song over and over. "}