{"label":" U-Cover","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2702/homepage_large.8d333313.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Electric Birds","title":"Strata Frames","text":" One of the best things about discovering a new artist early in his career is the opportunity to follow the arc of his growth as it happens. When you explore the back catalog of an artist well past his prime, you're acting as an archeologist, sifting through the dusty fossils trying to figure out for yourself how the anklebone connects to the legbone. With an active and dynamic musician working through musical problems in the present day, each new release is unknowable to some degree, because there's no way to determine what will happen next. That's an exciting feeling. Mike Martinez of Electric Birds debuted in 2000 with a surprising selftitled album of varied, engrossing, and deeply emotional electronic music. Panorama followed in early 2001, an ultimately murky and disappointing affair after the superb execution of the debut, as it leaned too heavily on uninspired loops and lacked dynamics. Still, Martinez' talent was evident even on that mediocre effort, and his second release of 2001, Strata Frames, finds him returning to form as he refines his approach. Like Panorama, Strata Frames finds Electric Birds forgoing the variety of the debut in favor of steady, meticulous dissection of a handful of moods and textures. Martinez seems to be concentrating primarily on drones and ambient glitch with hints of dub and house rhythms. The tone once again is muted, with Martinez carefully threading veins of noise and static though the bubbly warmth of his synth programming. Even more than previous records, Strata Frames resembles the widescreen aquatic approach of Japan's wonderful Neina: complex ambient music with a slightly prickly edge. \"Strata 2\" gives instant notice that these dreamy tracks will be laced with dissonance. Buzzing static appears first, followed by a deep blue wave of drone that rises and falls like a timelapse photograph of the tide. Bell tones chime through the middle section of the track, further extending the seaside metaphor. The visual imagery that both \"Strata 2\" and the darker \"Strata 5\" conjure doubles the listening pleasure. When beats appear on Strata Frames, they're of the suggestive, holographic variety. Kit Clayton is thanked on the album sleeve, and his influence is readily apparent in the strokes of digital dub painted onto \"Frames\" (where heavily equalized chords throb atop a gentle house beat) and the relatively harsh reverberating clicks of \"Sodona.\" But these tracks, while engaging enough, are not what make Electric Birds special. Martinez' greatest talent is in constructing wistful, reflective moods from a palate of lush sounds. \"Pitch Patterns\" is my favorite here, the rare bit of electronic music that can get by on sound construction alone. The soft cloud of drone that shifts between two chords isn't doing anything a secondweek piano student couldn't muster, but the timbre of the lead sound is so incredibly rich and evocative it carries the track on its own. It's the kind of patch anyone who has tinkered with a modular synth dreams of creating. A repeating percussion melody and downcast, barely audible drum programming complete this elegant piece. Not all of Strata Frames is up to the standard of \"Pitch Patterns,\" but it's enough to have me anticipating the next Electric Birds release. "}