{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2704/homepage_large.90455c93.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Electric Birds","title":"Gradations","text":" It's becoming clear that the first Electric Birds album was something of a oneoff. With Gradations, sole member Mike Martinez is now four albums into the project, and he shows no signing of returning to the debut's eclecticism. In a way, the records following have been more cohesive statements, with Martinez choosing to explore with a given side of his musical persona over the course of an album: Panorama reflected his experiments with percussion and more rhythmic sound; last year's Strata Frames was more vaporous and ambient. While I've enjoyed these records to varying degrees, I can't help but pine for the debut's sense of unpredictability. After releasing the first two albums on his own Deluxe label, and Strata Frames on the fledging French imprint UCover, Martinez moves to the celebrated Mille Plateaux for Gradations. Mille Pleateax has lost some prestige since its late90s peak, but massive respect is still due the whole Force, Inc. network for being at the center of the most interesting developments in electronic music over the last ten years. And there's no question that where Electric Birds are now fits with the label's aesthetic. What's surprising about Gradations is the amount of gritty funk Electric Birds adds to the usual mix. Actually, to clarify, when I say 'gritty' I'm talking about the stuff that gums up the rollers in a laser printer, not the dirty sweat that slides down from an armpit to a waist. Still, no other word but 'funk' could possibly describe the momentum that builds through \"Astral Traveling,\" as the customarily gorgeous keyboard drones join forces with a shuffling beat and the tiny blip of a slapbass riff. Also noteworthy are the guitar accents that give \"Cyclist\" and \"Painted Rooms\" a satisfying organic counterpoint. \"Painted Rooms\" is particularly affecting, as the bassy acoustic guitar picking imparts a dark force that forms an interesting contrast to the glowing, cheerful synth pattern that dominates the tune. \"Painted Rooms\" and a number of other tracks work the nowubiquitous microhouse beat into the equation, but Electric Birds' attempts at punchy rhythms feel much more satisfying here than on Panorama. Martinez seems to have developed his ability to make the right beat work with each piece. The title cut, easily the most dubinfluenced track to date for Electric Birds, matches the hard panning and phasing effects with a faint, steady kick drum, giving the unpredictable foreground a steady base to work from. Taking a slightly different tack, \"Rian\" combines eerie sound effects with a click + cut variation on the twostep beat. Still, despite the rhythmic progressions evident on Gradations, deep, textured synth patches remains Martinez' bread and butter. It really is difficult to get to the bottom of why the gurgling clusters of sound in \"Nightriders\" and \"Radia\" are so moving. Maybe it's me, but Martinez' way with a heavenly drone is almost unmatched these days, equaling the raw sound construction of Windy & Carl. The complaint I have with Gradations is a familiar one with Electric Birds: a few tracks just go on to long, and don't have the variation or development to justify the repeated loops. But the good stuff here makes these moments of tedium well worth sitting through. "}