{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2711/homepage_large.4870bb3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Electric Six","title":"Danger! High Voltage EP","text":" I saw the best bands of my generation destroyed by blandness, shoegazing, somnambulant. Indie rock as we've known it, folks, is getting wrinkles, a bad back, and kidney stones. And don't look at me like that believe me, I'm as upset about it as anyone. It's just that Stephen Malkmus retreating to extended displays of technical ability, Doug Martsch retreating to acoustic Delta blues, and Liz Phair retreating to The Matrix gives me the creeping fear about the viability of our beloved genre. But dry your eyes, congregation, for the \"as we've known it\" is the key here, indicating as it does the midtolate collegiate brand of indie that's held the taste of those of us snapped into musical awareness by Nevermind. Thankfully, the term \"indie rock\" is one with little constraints regarding actual sound, not possessing the stylistic rules of something like ska, punk, or emo meaning the music thrown under the umbrella of \"indie rock\" can do the biologically natural thing and evolve like a muthafucka. Stephen J. Gould's major contribution to the field of evolutionary biology was the concept of punctuated equilibrium, the idea that the evolution of a species doesn't occur at a constant rate, but consists of long periods of inactivity marked by occasional bursts of frenetic change. Looking back at this point in time, people might point to two 2002 singles (!) as the major stimuli that caused indie rock to come under major selective pressure: \"House of Jealous Lovers\" by The Rapture and \"Danger! High Voltage\" by Electric Six (neé The Wildbunch). Listen to the songs backtoback and you'll see the similarities: both enter, run around the room, and leave in a steady state of armsflailing abandon, both utilize rhythms customfit for the dancefloor, both induce muscle spasms like a doctor getting crazy with the reflex tongs. Both songs also hinge on vocal hooks where the singer lets his voice fly like a Frisbee: \"House OVVV jealous lovAHS!\" or \"Fire in the DISCO! Fire in the [breath] TACO BELL!\" And both came down the wire to us through resolutely nonindie channels The Rapture sliding through the wetness of the electroclash scene, Electric Six getting their break on 2 Many DJs' mashup opera, As Heard on Radio Soulwax, Pt. 2. Perhaps surprisingly, given the paths they've taken, both songs have been largely accepted by the famousfortheirfrowns indie community, whose feet are not known for leaving the venue floor at any cost. There has lately been a shift from the enforced joylessness of indie gatherings, with indiepop dance nights proliferating at an alarming rate and bands like Hot Hot Heat, Liars, and Out Hud inducing audiences to shake their bony thriftstore hips. The scene is primed, ladies and gentlemen, to take a dancy turn, trading in waves of sound and plaintive headbobs for discopunk beats and whiteboy shimmy. I vaguely recollect that something of this nature happened in the early 80s and if you don't think the sound's potential has increased, consider the computers of 1982 next to our Pentium IV monsters. Into this breach, as we've already covered, flies \"Danger! High Voltage\", which is finally getting official stateside release in the form of a quick threesong and a remix EP on XL Recordings. The star of the show sounds slightly less enflamed separated from the frantic context of the 2 Many DJs mix, but still drops a hard beat, announcing itself with taut wahwah guitars before exploding into fuzztone and horns while singer Dick Valentine duets with the White Stripes' Jack White. White's appearance certainly eased the song's warm acceptance into the indie world's bosom, and his throaty yelp is the perfect complement to Valentine's phlegmatic growl. Saxophone skronk, sounding good for the first time in years, only fans the flames even higher. Part of the allure of \"Danger!\" and \"House of Jealous Lovers\", though, is their easy adaptation into more traditional dance club format, and the \"Thin White Duke\" remix contained here manages to barely outdo the source material. Remixer Jacque Lu Cont transfers the chord progression to ominous, overdriven keyboards, but maintains the driving beat of the original drums and the twisted unison of White and Valentine. It's an electronicrock hybrid that sounds vaguely Prodigyesque, but also works nicely as a combo meal of rock grime and electro precision; happy Faint from the Motor City. The other two tracks on the EP skirt dangerously close to the garagerock band that I suspect Electric Six once were, to varying danceability success. \"I Lost Control (Of My Rock & Roll)\" comes closest to being a respectable bside to \"Danger! High Voltage\", built on a jagged riff and with a furiously simple vibraphone bridge that sounds like dancing on postrock's grave. \"Remote Control (Me)\", on the other hand, is distressingly weak, its tired guitar lines sounding somewhat ridiculous under Valentine's melodramatic, husky vocals and easy metaphors. Tambourine can't save it. On a longer effort, \"Remote Control (Me)\" might be a forgivable blip, but as 25% of an EP, it's a critical error that suggests a lessthansurefireexciting future for the group. And part of me wishes Electric Six would've spun the buzz from \"Danger!\" into a bona fide LP, rather than buying into the hypefeeding EP cycle that's being increasingly employed by the scene's hot prospects. That, of course, might just be the old way of thinking with the sound of indie rock changing, club pressures and technology could also be pushing the preferred format towards shorter players. It's quite possible I'm completely wrong about all this highfalutin' prophesizing I hate to break it to you, but sometimes us critics aren't quite The Weather Channel when it comes to accuracy. But the success of tracks like \"House of Jealous Lovers\" and \"Danger! High Voltage\" across traditional scene lines and into the formerly dancephobic world of indie has to signal some kind of movement, one that I'd be loath in my duties if I didn't excitedly hypothesize about. So my conclusion, and my advice to you, indie rocker, is to learn how to dance. "}