{"label":" No Quarter","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2714/homepage_large.274bb4ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Electric Turn to Me","title":"Electric Turn to Me","text":" New York's Electric Turn to Me should be a lesson to us all. Counting two former members of the excellent but defunct Laddio Bolocko, and fronted by a German woman called Silke clearly unafraid of bringing the drama like Siouxsie used to do the band should add up to a fairly sizeable fish in the tiny, usually refreshing pond of neo artrock. However, some funny things happened on the way to the next big thing: sinister theatrics became campy cabaret, digital age psychedelia lapsed into flat, bythenumbers postrock, and a modern take on the otherworldly grandeur of The Doors became a lightweight, impotent Jane's Addiction runthrough. The lesson especially for Laddio Bolocko fans might be that you can't always get what you want. For anyone else, maybe something like \"steer clear of falling stars.\" Electric Turn to Me was formed last summer, apparently inspired by eccentric 60s psychepop acts like Love and Pretty Things, though to my ears not even in the same universe. Where the Pretty Things were scruffy mod rockers with hearts of art, sounding as convincing on the folklaced \"Private Sorrow\" as they did on allout jams like \"Walking Through My Dreams\", ETTM seem a tad forced. It doesn't help that their bassless lineup often fails to really bring the power during frequent \"climactic\" moments, though they do pump up the tympanis on occasion yeah! Still, none of that compares to vocalist Silke, who is polarization personified. Her voice is, shall we say, distinctive. Her vibrato is...positively traumatic. For better or for worse, she dominates this music with a thick, wavering tone and Teutonic dread that gives me sore throat just thinking about it. It's not going to take most folks long to determine if they can handle her. The best moment on Electric Turn to Me is its first 30 seconds, as the band blasts out of the gate on \"First Crimes\" playing hyperspeed, electrofied rocket rock very reminiscent of Laddio Bolocko. And then, she happens. \"FIRRRRST CRIIIIMES, EVERYDAYNIGHTWHENTHEMOONTHOUGHTSOFYERSIDE.\" Well, I can't really tell what she's singing, but her message is loud and clear: bow down before my black terror, o subjects of despair! The vampire movie organ that accompanies her does a nice job of transforming the vibe from threepenny operatic tension into isthissupposedtobefunny rocky horror. A minute later, Silke manages to unleash the full power of her sonic arsenal, and all I can think of is that scene in Lord of the Rings when Cate Blanchett freaks out and turns silver and blue. \"Watch Out for the Witch\" is slightly less over the top, though clearly the band missed an opportunity here when they titled the record. Drummer Blake Fleming's ultratight pulse, alongside the clipped, distorted keyboard figure make for a decent (and mercifully straightforward never thought I'd be so grateful for that) backdrop over which Silke plays it cool for a little bit. Of course, she lets loose in the chorus, but the song itself isn't a bad update on 60s rock opera a la S.F. Sorrow. \"Nightvision\", on the other hand, is pretty dreadful: Silke visits the other extreme of her vocal repertoire, opting for moaning, wavering strains while the band is relegated to the unenviable role of trying to keep the ballad moving lest it dissolve into artshow melodrama. They manage to do this best during the more intense sections, as Fleming hacks at his cymbal and guitarist James Wilk offers a few arpeggios that wouldn't sound out of place on Simple Minds song. Remember, these are the good parts. Despite my various reservations with Electric Turn to Me, I'm not without hope. There is a faint connection between the devastating bombast of Silke and the eccentric (but expressive) work of Dagmar Krause (formerly of Slapp Happy and the Art Bears). Perhaps, like Krause and her bands, Silke and ETTM will develop a sound that makes better use of their various strengths, as I'm certain there must be away to make this mix work. Until then, tread carefully. "}