{"label":" Arena Rock","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2722/homepage_large.2147ee67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Elf Power","title":"Nothing's Going to Happen","text":" Lofi hiss. Is there any finer sound than a power chord played through a fourtrack that sounds like it was built from Legos? It's like heroin to me; razorblades, anthrax, whatever wrap them in a few layers of fuzzedup guitar and I'll eat it with my breakfast cereal. For years, Athens, GA stood as the richest resource of lofi hiss on Earth, but with the rapid expansion of the powerful Elephant 6 conglomerate, who controlled the area's supply, the hiss quickly dried up, leaving addicts like myself out in the cold. Fortunately, a handful of bands have emerged from E6 unscathed. Elf Power is one of the last remaining bastions of Athens' hiss production, having churned out irresistible fuzzpop since the heady days of 1994. Now, on Nothing's Going to Happen, this Athens group has gotten its Elf Powers over sixteen tracks from all corners of the musical globe. And not just any songs. Great ones. Songs so near and dear to me that just the thought of having to do without the original versions makes me wanna fight. Naturally, I was a bit concerned as to whether Elf Power could do them justice, but the band quickly negated my worries with their trademarked geyser blasts of that precious opiate I cannot resist: lofi hiss. Out of the massive, monolithic indie stonedrone they've established as their signature sound, the Elves have hacked out an incredible array of covers from the most disparate group of names you're likely to see: Roky Erickson, Tall Dwarfs (classic lofi poppers in their own right), Jesus and Mary Chain (ditto), The... Misfits (what?), Bad Brains... \"Bbbut these songs aren't going to sound like the originals! They'll be butchered!\" some purist vainly cries. Silence! When I want your opinion I'll rattle your cage, even if you are halfright. On the surface, it may seem that a great many of these songs would be obscured by Elf Power's indie haze, but this is a labor done in earnest; these songs weren't chosen just to be buried. Hearing the D.C. hardcore of \"Paid to Cum\" through the lighthearted retrobuzz that only Elf Power can supply makes it overwhelmingly clear: the sincerest form of flattery isn't imitation; it's faithful interpretation. Despite the exterior differences in mood and instrumentation, everything here is carved from the same Rock, and as each track falls sway to Andrew Rieger's emotionally distant croons and wave after wave of acidwashed guitar crunch, it becomes evident that the band has accomplished something impressive. On one hand, Nothing's Going to Happen is so universally cohesive that someone unfamiliar with the roots of these tracks could be forgiven for mistaking this as an original effort. The slightly more subdued sound of Creatures plays well here, giving the group enough room to keep the acoustics cleaner when it counts (check out the bouncepop of T.Rex's \"Hot Love\"), or as muddy as necessary on tracks like the title cut. Hell, even the subject matter doesn't stray that far from the trippy psychedelia of their other outings. There're no birds with candybar heads, but \"Hybrid Moments\", The Frogs' \"Weird on the Avenue\", and Erickson's \"I Walked with a Zombie\" (among others) have a distinct oddity that's immediately reminiscent of vintage Elfin material. But then, finally getting around to the other hand in this comparison, they never sacrifice the personality of the various artists they tackle. Sure, the adjustment gets a little rough in places fans may rankle at the sheer absurdity of Rieger's Gary Numan impression on \"My Shadow in Vain\", and fouroutoffive dentists didn't believe it, but \"Upside Down\" sounds even lowerfi than ever before. Fortunately, these slight missteps take nothing away from the incredible effort put forth on Nothing's Going to Happen; every cut comes away as a singular application of the Elf aesthetic to every sort of music available while keeping individuality intact. Should keep the hiss fiends satisfied for quite a while. "}