{"label":" King Crab","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2738/homepage_large.ffe3a63a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Warren Ellis","title":"3 Pieces for Violin EP","text":" There's some kind of magic in Australia's Dirty Three. It's now wellestablished that the records they make together are great, but just as interesting is how much they bring to projects outside the band. Each member's instrumental style is both unique and extremely portable. Jim White and Mick Turner work together beautifully as a freelance rhythm section on records with the likes of Cat Power and Will Oldham, and on the evidence of the one seveninch I have, they also shine when they collaborate as the Tren Brothers (\"Kit's Choice\" is incredibly affecting). Meanwhile, violinist Warren Ellis has kept busy working on film scoring projects, along with playing with Nick Cave, among others. The 3 Pieces for Violin EP is his first solo record, as well as one of the first releases on Mick Turner's King Crab label. And keeping with the trend, it's superb. Actually, the genesis of these pieces was also collaboration, this time with Canadian dance company Holy Body Tattoo. These three short tracks were originally a sonic backdrop to a piece called Circa, but don't worry, you don't need to be staring at stonefaced automatons in lyrca body stockings to enjoy the music. All serve as a fine showcase for Ellis' highly physical violin style, which moves easily between earthy folk and contemporary classical textures. The latter is display on the first piece, in which a jarring, fiercely sawed opening with sharp edges of dissonance develops into an eerie, slithering melody with several overdubbed violins. As heard on Whatever You Love, You Are's \"I Offered It Up to the Stars and the Night Sky,\" Ellis has a real knack for layering his violin parts, imparting a chamber music feel without forgoing his aggressive tone. The second track finds Ellis heading in the direction of drone music. As one fiddle bows furiously on a single string, giving a rumbling undercurrent not unlike some of Cale's viola work with the Velvet Underground, he uses another track to spread an ethereal, almost Celtic melody on top. Track three is more relaxed and contemplative, starting with a plucked chord and then adding the kind of yearning, poignant lead line that Stradivarius designed the instrument for. His thick tone is certainly one of Ellis' calling cards, but his brilliant melodic sense is what makes his music so memorable, in and out of his main band. Even though 3 Pieces for Violin adds up to only 16 minutes of music, it's close to an essential purchase for Dirty Three fans. "}