{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2740/homepage_large.33587b28.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Eltro","title":"Past and Present Futurists","text":" From the article People Like Us: The Quirkyalones by Sasha Cagen:We are the puzzle pieces who seldom fit with other puzzle pieces. We inhabit singledom as our natural resting state. We are, by force of our personalities and inner strength, rebels. It would be better to be untethered and open to possibility, living for the exhilaration of meeting someone new, of not knowing what the night will bring. We seek momentous meetings. In 1999, with her definitive Quirkyalone manifesto, Cagen fleshed out a latent character type that's quintessentially millennial and unarguably valid. Mass media grabbed the term and launched a Lifestyle Section carnival of pop psychology that very quickly established an unlikely solidarity among thousands of deliberate, socially skeptical free agents around the world. The QAs, we've been informed, are here. I'm betting Eltro is the soundtrack to all their long solitary walks and microwave dinners for one. Somewhat identified with the heady Psychedelphia scene that's hit stride over the last few years, Eltro keep the beats fuzzy, the digital effects swarming, and the lyrics mostly unintelligible. But where groups like Asteroid #4 and the Three 4 Tens wig out with acidtest guitar and throwback harmonized vocals, Eltro rely heavily on ambient percussion and textured repetition to steer their midnight drive. Like Cagen's Quirkyalones, Eltro is \"untethered and open to possibility,\" working from a vast and mysterious palette of modern synthesized styles. Past and Present Futurists, their third LP on Berkeley's Absolutely Kosher label, arrives at some enthralling twists of crispy, catchy minimalism and offers glimpses of unbridled creativity. Due to a diffuse stylistic focus and somewhat flimsy lofi production, however, the album arrives at only a precious few of those truly \"momentous meetings\" that drive the Quirkyalone solo mission. That said, Futurists stages enough intriguing encounters to make the album an eccentric, somnambulant thrill not unlike nodding off at a strip club. The droning trippop of \"Love Is on the Right\" rustles over sleepdeprived vocal harmonies from husband/wife songwriting team Diana Prescott and Jorge Sandrini. Their blissedout vocals also lift the guitardriven \"Lady of the Highway\" to inebriated heights, as they sing of some surreal road trip where \"I was asleep at the wheel/ Lost on the highway/ The radio does as it should/ Ghostly transmissions are taking me further away.\" The song builds to a lowwattage crescendo, Rick Henderson's subdued, reverential organ paired with Sandrini's guitar cranked up to about six. It's a beautiful slice of dreampop, concise and moving, and sounds unlike anything else on the album. The other high point comes with the absolutely inexplicable \"Fram\", a jagged gouge of electro dancepunk cat scratch that also stands stylistically alone as the only assmover on an album of barely conscious beats. Whether Prescott's singing of a new oil filter on her Funkmobile or a replacement tube for her bass amp is hard to say, as she sing/speaks, \"I need adapters for both sides/ I need a small reel for the outside/ I need Fram.\" Riiight. But the lyrics here are purely ornamental, gabbling utterances reminiscent of !!! minus the testosterone. \"Fram\" hypnotizes with a bobbing bassline, stringy guitar, industrial percussion samples, and creaking horn slices that, despite their solitary, individual drive, manage to find each other in an undeniable groove. It's an improbable commingling that works wonderfully, and it just might be enough to give hope to the perennially single. "}