{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2741/homepage_large.74afe811.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Eluvium","title":"Lambent Material","text":" Life never felt so good as when I was wrist and ankle deep in freezing cold parking lot snow mounds. We were called the Alabaster Pummelers APs for short and we represented the last line of defense between the dying pangs of winter and the beautiful uprising of spring. Nicknamed the SnowKickers by the local press, our mission was to seek out the remaining stragglers of sporadic blizzards and destroy them in a manner befitting seasonal stowaways through hard and fast attacks using our feet and hands. Given an hour, we could lay an entire mountain of powdery whiteness into a mere trickle of its former self, a shivering babe where once there stood a proud Old Man Winter. Selfappointed and slightly delusional, our job was to deal with the after affects of the storm those dirty and unattractive areas where normal people feared to tread to discover beauty in violence and power in the monotonous and repetitive exercise of destruction and subsequent conception. Though I dox92t know him personally, I doubt that Matthew Cooper under the working guise of Eluvium would have passed up an opportunity to join my friends and I in one of our fierce and inspired outings. Similar to our oft misunderstood melee, Cooper attests to a brethren musical doctrine of creation over the course of his latest album Lambent Material, utilizing bare and broken shards of noise others are so quick to either throw away or gloss over as putrid waste. Simple and elegant, the music glides on the strength of progression and volume in the same manner as a poor max92s Philip Jeck or Mogwai at their zenith providing a cover of any composition from Brian Eno's Ambient series. \"Zerthis Was A Shivering Human Image\" is the exemplar track by which all others are judged on the album, as it is to best effect what one would expect from the above analogy: a minimal and lulling drone that's easy enough on the ears to be ignored as background music, yet simultaneously capable of closer and constant inspection of its subtle complexity, sound layering and instrumentation. Over a steady wash of sonic feedback that modulates slowly between piercingly loud and simply deafening, a twochord motif is left to its own devices, phasing in and out of time with the swells of white noise. At over fifteen minutes the work comprises nearly half of the album, creating not only a wall of sound but also the rich ornamental tapestries that will adorn it, eventually collapsing into a naturally eclipsing hiss and fade. Given such a track, it's mindboggling to wonder why Cooper didn't allot more than a normal pop song's length to the development of his other, neglected compositions. \"Under The Water It Glowed\" sputters like a fountain as a straightforward and beautiful melody adopts control, ultimately relinquishing its grip to allow a full force siren to rise high in the mix before being cut short of full expansion by \"There Wasx92t Anything\". Developed from a series of clichéd found sounds keys falling, coughing, laughing, etc. a piano eventually picks up on a threenote repetitive pattern, overtaken quickly by a dark and reedy clarinet. Though lusciously steeped in room tone and various lowkey effects, the track again ends just as it is getting interesting, as if Cooper's intent isn't to provide a complete melodic notion, but simply introduce many curtailed ideas for future reference. Producing music in such an unforgivable style as Atmospheric Rock must inevitably lead both Matthew and the listener to the observance that short immature compositions the aptly titled \"The Unfinished\" and the dark \"I Am So Much More Me That You Are Perfectly You\" yield an emptiness of expectation that neither rewarding nor forgiving. Displaying an intense possibility for growth, Eluvium is for the moment nothing more than a catalogue of potential and anticipation, one that will hopefully grow in confidence as well as execution as it ushers in the rebirth of its own stolid fabrication a redemptive springtime to combat the detached winter of Lambent Material. "}