{"label":" Digital Hardcore","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2757/homepage_large.5b2b67e5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Alec Empire","title":"Futurist","text":" As secondgeneration industrial egoistmartyrs go, German pitbull Alec Empire and Trent Reznor have a lot in common. Physically, their impossibly wan expressions work overtime to contrast their blackhole locks, suggesting brooding dichromatic cartoon characters. And their hammertothehead blunt takes on Nietzsche and nihilism are equally cartoonish; such stunted ideas of death, destruction, and anarchy are as aweinspiring to wayward teens as they are laughable to about everyone else. Both skinny puppies spent the 1990s pushing industrial music in new, sometimes striking directions only to run out of black nail polish near the turn of the century. Similarly, the duo released bloated double albums a few years ago only to come back in the last few months with strippeddown, selfconsciously \"raw\" followups. After taking industrial to its logical noisesoaked endpoint, Empire struggles on his misleadingly titled Futurist, which eschews his forwardthinking dancefloorclearing breakbeats and Enostyle ambient ramblings for a more upfront punk approach. Though he's still scowling and screaming with verve, the traditional song structures and relatively mild rock production unfortunately puts more emphasis on his straightfaced, literalasfuck lyrics. \"Kiss of Death\" is the first and best track on the record, with the following 11 songs relegated to less inspired versions of the same PistolsmeetsKMFDM formula. The guitars dominate the mix throughout, their power chord fury nearly matching Empire's corrosive, distorted vocal. \"I'm Here to stay!!! You better watch out cuz I came to terminate!!!!\" he sings with genuine, if somewhat pathetic, passion (capitalization and punctuation based on his official site, natch). For any other artist, the track would be considered quite breakneck but compared to his own brand of televisionstatic cocainejungle, \"Kiss of Death\" is almost midtempo. The threechord simplicity is admirable and refreshing at first, though it quickly starts to wear thin in all respects. It's easy to poke fun at Alec's somewhat lostintranslation gothgangster pose, but for all his antiestablishment hollering, Empire's mantras often come off as a tad militaristic in their repetitive simplicity. On the monotonous \"Point of No Return\", it's not enough to repeat the title over and over (and over), he even goes on to explain it, in case you were confused: \"You can't go back even if you wanted to.\" There's reinforcing the humorless German stereotype and then, it seems, there's Alec Empire. When wrapped in confrontational music that matches his unwavering hatred of \"the man,\" Empire can be enthralling but Futurist's sordid punk suggests our man may have cornered himself. Now in his 30s, this blackclad fistpumper has always been at his best when taking into account all of his industrial influences, from Einstürzende Neubauten to Ministry, and spewing them out in braincellcrushing odes to nothingness. Futurist, with its muddy, onenote punkthrash revivalism that belies his talents as a versatile studio auteur, is as frustratingly unremarkable and immobile as the governments he so blatantly rails against. "}