{"label":" Sonic Terror","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2759/homepage_large.e667daf5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nicholas B. Sylvester","artist":"Enduser","title":"Sonic Terror Tour 2003","text":" Schadenfreude: the inexplicable act of taking pleasure in another's pain. Why we stare at car crashes, why we laugh when an old man unsuspectingly slips on a banana peel, why most of us will be in hysterics when the Hell's Angels draw and quarter the bassist from Phish. If this feature of human nature doesn't disgust you, great. Welcome to Enduser. You're going to love this guy. An apparent staunch believer in Schadenfreude, Enduser enjoys the idea of otherwise unscathed melodies put to the rack, terrorized by the onslaught of a relentless drumnbass furor. The whole process is a microcosm of the listening experience: the work destroys us as well. Here's an artist staring at us as we're thrown headlong out our car windshields. For some reason, I really get a kick out of this. An unenjoyable \"badsounding\" album is an easy feat; what's more difficult is to produce an enjoyable \"badsounding\" album. There's a certain charisma to pleasant unpleasantness, and the desire to understand this quality is, to me, what drives artists (and their patrons) to take part in aural assault in the first place. 15 Tracks, Enduser's earlier 2003 release, was so engaging because he was able to bring out a natural violence in the most beautiful melodies. Within the vocal melody of \"Björk Was Hiding Under My Bed\", Enduser isolated the song's own natural percussive destruction. The beats never completely undermined their source material, though; melody always triumphed. 15 Tracks put Enduser and his audience on the same side of Schadenfreude, since both seemed to be observing together the natural violent tendencies of the album's melodies.Sonic Terror Tour 2003 is where Enduser's Schadenfreude becomes what may only be described as some blissful autosadism for the listener: we know we're being terrorized, and we kind of like it. In contrast to 15 Tracks, Enduser doesn't redeem the melody from its beat subsumation; here, destruction takes primacy. The samples are gruesome, and even the piano lines from which the beats grow are drastically less melodic. The paradigm has shifted; Sonic Terror Tour 2003 is infinitely darker, more violent, less enjoyable, but perhaps all the more engaging. I reiterate how well Enduser gleans the drum loops from the melodies, how unforced it sounds, how naturally the latter gives birth to the former it's just really stunning here. In an easily impressed music world where artists can make enormous names for themselves by just haphazardly looping drums over scarce Jamaican rasta lines, it's so refreshing, for instance, how on Track 2 (the tracks are unnamed) Enduser carefully matches the intensity of his breaks to the vocal rhythms and a whispery flattedseventhtoroot synth line. Similarly, on Track 3, as soon as the piano and guitar haunts trip over themselves, the song falls into a maelstrom of bass and snare. Then, a vocal cutup drives off the storm looped in the same rhythm of how the piano and guitar fell apart in the first place. Or take Track 9, which starts with a tongueincheek late 80s club anthem melody mixed with lowlevel breaks and indiscernible lyrics, and after countless octave modulations and appropriate compensations in rhythmic intensity, ends completely unwound our club anthem is left to a pathetic loop of \"ass ass, titties titties, ass and titties.\" Needless to say, Enduser is extremely meticulous, and his diligence serves only to make this album that much more gripping. Enduser seems to attract the thickskinned, but even this writer who counts himself among them was sickened at times by Sonic Terror's downright foul audio samples. \"Some girls like men to take a dump on them,\" Enduser's closing remark, barely speaks to the extent of Sonic Terror's lyrical brutality. Presumably, this was the intended effect, and Enduser is, as much as anyone can be, artfully violent. \"What's it like knowing you're about to die?\" introduces Track 7, after which Enduser launches into allout guerrilla beat warfare, stopping the madness only to taunt further: \"I would like to rise and piss on your brain.\" Track 10, with its Fisher Price bell keyboard riff and less intrusive breaks, is the closest to what one might consider a \"beautiful song.\" After nine tracks of unapologetic eyepulling, Enduser gives his audience a break, so to speak. It's a welcome one, and to reiterate, its higher frequency in 15 Tracks made that album more accessible. 15 Tracks still may be the place to start with Enduser, but when breakbeat suicide strikes your fancy, Sonic Terror Tour 2003 is a worthy wormwood. "}