{"label":" Sonic Terror","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2760/homepage_large.17c26207.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Enduser","title":"15 Tracks","text":" Fuck you, Busta Rhymes, you Mountain Dewguzzlin', candyass motherfucker. \"Make It Clap\" is the worst 21st century, radiofriendly hiphop single since...well, what was your last single? And what's worse, every two bit thug from Illadelph to San Fran thinks they've heard the pinnacle of dancehall flava 'cause they watched your ugly mug flash 8 million ivory teeth into a fisheye lens on MTV. Sorry to burst your shiny, gold bubble, but out there in the thick web of backwater 'burbs and ethernet cables are PC warriors who've taken the shuffling, bloodshot riddims of dub and ragga, the blitzkrieg verbal skills of various dancehall MCs, and turned that shit into an Extinction Level Event that'd have you pissing your sagging Bushi pants. DJ Scud, Psychofreud, Knifehandchop, posttrauma Otto Von Shirach, Kevin Martin's The Bug project: Each one has severed dancehall's dreadlocked head and grafted it onto the body of their own brand of virulent breakbeat, from electrogabba freakouts to jungle doused in eleven rancid herbs and spices. In every case the whole transcends the parts, and disembodied Caribbean rants find new life as they forge through pelvisshattering beats like mental patients sailing an endless sea of Ice9. And no one right now is doing it as well as Enduser, Kentucky's own and Jah's favorite. 15 Tracks, his first fulllength for Sonic Terror, is an S&M; orgasm of unrelenting stereo violence, an amalgamation of ganja smoke, severed heads, and 18 tons of rusty nails that puts everyone else's game to shame. Moving from headbobs to bodyblows in the space of a few seconds, Enduser (that's enduser) takes cues from the aggressive cutups of Venetian Snares and Squarepusher, rolls them up in the cherryscented skin of backpacker hiphop, and lights that blunt with a butane torch until the sucker burns white hot. Be it nebulous drum 'n' bass or steel machete breakcore, Bounty Killer or Björk, Enduser dips it all in battery acid and Red Stripe, and ferments a barrel full of digital moonshine worth going blind to drink. The opening round is a massive revamp of Meth and Redman's benign Blackout! cut \"Tear it off\", a clicking iron snare with eerie UFO landing themes that completely reshuffle the Brick City and Shaolin representatives around the beat. \"Blastin' Muthafuckaz\" brings in the thug MCs, packing stuttering handgun boasts, backed by drum kits made of steel beams and tin, but it's the cribbing of ragga verbals and melodyminded cadences that really spread the gasoline around. The industrial, vibrating bed of nails, \"Beatdown\", and the bitchinheat fervor of \"Rprznt\" are whales unto themselves, but the chirping \"I Come From Cincinnati\" is as unreformed as it is a party record, a fire and brim stone buildup broken up by fuzzedout bass drops and a cokedup flute, racing a gruff bear of an MC and his vampiress sparring partner. Think D/J Rupture's Gold Teef Thief mix, drunk on Captain Morgan in an underground bunker, chased with Caribbean DrainO. There are faces here no one has tried on yet, or at least haven't looked as good wearing. \"East Side Breaks\" plucks a long moan of senseless Newagey gibberish from what sound like a Deep Forest or Enigma record, and straps it lovingly on the back of a tranquilized sandworm, warming up the bed while \"Knuckle Fucker\" gets its yaya's out, a Commodore 64 riff in Wonkavision, overpowered by cannibal breaks. \"Port 666\" has the most personalities: every barrage of bristling speed metal stomp and sliding digital hardcore comes at you like a bonafide headcase.15 Tracks is a better discovery than cheap cigarettes: it's hot sex, imported beer and Dutch Masters, a hotglue strip search from Pam Grier, with coat hangers and paper clips jammed deep in your ears. You can keep your pastel fur coats, Busta. Are you ever gonna put fresh intestines wrapped in a shirt on your CD insert?. As much as you'd like to think yourself an innovator, you made your name in the wrong industry. Are you making it clap, Busta, or are you just passing that shit around? "}