{"label":" Ad Noiseam","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2761/homepage_large.294bd88e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Enduser","title":"Run War","text":" Breakcore's presupposed lack of borders is a ruse. Like all genres, it's got its stylistic hallmarks: bass mutations, jungle breakbeats, and plenty of brazenly stolen samples. Other flavors embolism gabba, cock rock, Irish jigs come afterwards. It can be played absurdly fast or at hiphop tempo. It can be silly, menacing, painful, or euphoric, but it's rarely soothing, sexy, or meditative. Enduser is a breakcore artist by dint of association, but he's also released records on mainstream drum'n'bass don Dylan's Outbreak label. Dylan, and by extension Enduser, falls into the \"beat that shit with a spike fuckin bat\" school of jungle. And sure enough, there's plenty of sporkinyrearhole bass (some enterprising bedroom DJ should see about mashing up \"Dubplate #12\" with Lil Jon's \"What U Gon' Do\") and bronco rides across overmodulated snares of death. But he finds wiggle room even within the most oppressive of templates. The titular characters of \"Dissin Monks\" chant along with the serrated beats, adding an almost comical atmosphere of gothic portentousness. \"Diggin Graves\" is thrombosishop, all pixilated 8bit beat edits and a brittle, digital, chirruping loop that sounds like Mego's Pita gone funky. (I won't mention everyone Enduser samples on Run War, both to save his lawyer some work and to keep the spotters happy.) Most amazingly, he reaches occasionally for real, traditional beauty. The immaculately turned out postAphex atmospherics of \"ESB Rmx\" are pretty gorgeous on their own. Then he adds a surging bassline that would be a balm on any junglist dancefloor. But he tops off with a yearning Bollywood vocal, possibly pitched up slightly to play on its essential Kanye chipmunkness. This is one of those aesthetic choices that separates genius from pretender.Run War isn't perfect. It falls apart a little in the home stretch as it veers sharply into gabba tempo, drill'n'bass beats, and general silliness. (This sort of postKid606 DSP abuse is common enough in breakcore to make me wary. Do we really need more tracks combining Destiny's Child + distorted 200bpm snare rushes?) But he rallies with \"Glock Dub\", a scowling take on (I think) the \"Scorpio\" break that's smacked about by some truly painful bass distortion. On his blog recently, DJ/rupture castigated the postjungle underground for its essentially conservative nature. Fair enough: I've certainly heard plenty of rote \"Amen\" + ragga over the last 12 months. But jungle's vocabulary is there to be used, as with 12bar blues or the hiphop breaks that inspired it in the first place. The historical burden of innovation has been traded for the aesthetic burden of interest. And when it stays below 180bpm and doesn't trade the funk for a whoopie cushion, Run War proves Enduser can take the weight. "}