{"label":" Cenotaph","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/279/homepage_large.02381aa8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Arco Flute Foundation","title":"Everything After the Bomb Is Sci-Fi","text":" I suppose you could bow a flute if you wanted to. I'm not really sure what kind of sound it would make, or if it would make any sound at all. Hence my confusion and amusement at this band's name. In musical notation, 'arco' means 'played with the bow,' as in a violin, bass, viola or cello (or maybe a guitar for you adventurous types). I'm sure it's just meant to be a joke on the band's part for one thing, there aren't any flutes within 500 miles of this recording even if the music they make isn't all that endowed with humor. I mean, just check out that album title: Everything After the Bomb is SciFi. Heavy. Wait, let me rephrase that: heavy? And the music isn't much of a picnic, either, as it resides mostly in a chaotic, formless realm where indiscriminate noise is monarch. That said, the music also isn't nearly as apocalyptic as the album title might suggest instead, it finds a sort of middle ground between cold distance and actual emotion that, while never particularly upbeat, abstains from becoming all that dark or foreboding. Three Foundation members also spend time postrockin' with fellow Pittsburgh crew Meisha, and the Foundation are at their best when the music veers closer to the more controlled, structured approach of that band. Most of opener \"The Myth That Became Jimmy Palm\" sets churning guitars to a persistent rhythm that rises and falls before succumbing to some overlong electronic entropy, and the overall results are fairly satisfying. The contour of the song from order to disorder isn't exactly revolutionary, but the change is gradual enough not to be obvious on the first couple of listens. \"The Mean Egyptian\" is the best track of the seven present, heating from a basic repeated guitar phrase and simple rhythms to a boil of crashing cymbals and slowly morphing melodic guitar motifs. Not coincidentally, this track is also one of the shortest, veering abruptly out of its groove and leaving only a glowing trail of guitar and keyboard noise behind to form the basis for the opening of \"Captain World's Apprentice.\" Now, to be perfectly honest, not much of interest goes down in the middle of this album. Captain World's apprentice seems to have forgotten his training, giving up the ethereal drones he came in with for formless, aimless static that drags on for several minutes before being overtaken by a series of buzzing drones that proceed nowhere. \"It's a Symbol Like the Word 'And'\" follows with some swelling, seemingly malfunctioning synth that seems interesting at first, but quickly loses its appeal as the clock ticks ever onward, the synth remains stubbornly stagnant. Static and a bit of noodly guitar caught in a loop occupy the track's midsection, while a subdued drum groove provides a bit of lift at the end for the sliding, heavily delayed guitar sounds moving overhead. \"The Bastard Son of the Earthquake Choir\" opens with some striking guitar harmonics, but eventually caves to the band's overused tactic of giving noise a beat and letting it ride for too long. The dirty guitar riff and charging drums that open \"The Lizard Christ\" are initially fairly clear, but the track loses its shape somewhat as it progresses, due largely to a lack of any kind of real melody to give it contour. The Foundation then dumps you into the closer, \"Seymour Uncle Billy,\" which offers freeform percussion played under a constant, unchanging drone. The piece really only takes shape when the percussion congeals into a rhythm, pounding the drone along, and offering the disc's most intense moment unfortunately, this only lasts for about onefourth of the nearly ten minute song.Everything After the Bomb Is SciFi does has its moments of sonic interest, poking up out of a stew of sound. But those who come expecting strong compositions or something viscerally gripping will likely be left at a loss when the disc stops spinning. The ingredients for something good are certainly there, but the Arco Flute Foundation needs to focus more compositionally and strive for a more palpable mood before I can truly recommend them. "}