{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2795/homepage_large.86b3fe84.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Erase Errata","title":"At Crystal Palace","text":" From the Fandango and the Mashed Potato to the Roger Rabbit and the Cabbage Patch, dances always get lost to the fickle and fashionable sands of time. While Alfonso Robero infomercials and Thriller videos defined dancefloor moves for the 1980s, 90s kids ground on glowsticks and made \"energy balls\" while flopping about in size 50 Dickies. Which is to say that what's considered danceable now was not necessarily so scant years back. While wallflowering remains the dance of choice for New York's coolerthan cognoscenti, there seems to be a bit more fidgeting out in San Francisco. Gal quartet Erase Errata are often mentioned in the same breath as easilyclumped \"dancepunk\" acts like The Rapture, Liars, and !!!, and for good reason: wiry, spastic, and elastic around their strippeddown culminations of the last twenty years of underground punk and all its permutations, Erase Errata is, at their very core, exuberant. Even a recent set of remixes by Kid606, Matmos, Adult., and Kevin Blechdom failed to significantly alter the group's sound or make it any more danceable. The same goes for the band itself, though, as the followup to 2001's Other Animals, At Crystal Palace, simply keeps the course. \"Driving Test\" is the best commutermeditationasportraitofsufferinghumanity since Nilsson's \"Driving Along\", as singer Jenny Hoyston watches the spectrum of faces blur past. The rest of Erase Errata revs and taps the brakes before settling into a jaunty, strippedclean groove buoyed by bassist Ellie Erickson and the pistonclicking precision of drummer Bianca Sparta, whose rhythms come and go for scant instants at best before skittering apart and reforming. For the most part, the sonic surprises are scattered to the corners of songs there are little touches here and there: like the trembling trumpet that tremors along with the guitar at the end of \"Ca. Viewing\", taps of piano, or the tape reversal on the second half of the bounding but otherwise toobrief \"Surprize It's Easter\". For the opening moments of the almost anthemic \"Let's Be Active c/o Club Hott\", Sara Jaffe's spiky guitar leads are strident and irregularly melodic. The brainscratching strings that bob with the eyethudding bass and clamming hihat of \"Owls\", jerk with a tempered ferocity that frees up sharp elbows and wobbly knees for the most spastic of dances. Simple rebounding pulloffs set the rollicking base for \"Retreat! The Most Familiar\", which remains the most tightly wound and effective rock number of the set. Were it not already a Kid606 remix, it would cry out for the treatment. The past, for the most part, is evoked, but the album escapes being too heavily indebted to it. There's plenty of Minutemen twitch, Dog Faced Herman tick, Bikini Kill bossiness, and a cleverly wrapped polemic that even recalls the Desperate Bicycles' delicious DIY rhetoric. While sophomore efforts can fall either to heightened expectations, shorter gestation period, or overreaching goals, the girls have instead kept the machine largely intact and untinkered with, even stripping it all down to a lean twentyseven minutes. At a future point, the jitters Erase Errata elicit on the dancefloor may be recalled merely as some generation's cringeworthy fad, but with their grasp of time's outbursted brevity, they have their moves down pat for the moment. "}