{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2796/homepage_large.caedd9bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Erase Errata","title":"Dancing Machine: Erase Errata Remix Record EP","text":" The black bars covering the mouths of Erase Errata's four members on the cover of this brief new remix record seem to indicate that these four tracks might be attempting to disguise the band's raw postpunk guitar screeches and nowave experiments. If that's the case, though, most of its artists seem to failed miserably. Fortunately, while results vary greatly in both sound and quality, they're all interesting variations on the band's wellestablished themes. And they'll kill on the dancefloor. Kid606 takes \"Retreat, The Most Familiar\" from the band's forthcoming second fulllength, At Crystal Palace, and throws in some backwards drum loops and boinging springs that both smack of Siouxsie & The Banshees' classic \"PeekABoo\". The rhythmic hisses and frontwoman Jenny Hoyston's sneered shouts of \"Spectre! Spectre!\", however, remain intact. It almost sounds like 606 layered The Fall's \"Spectre Versus Rector\" over \"My New House\", resulting in some weird new palimpsest that continually wheels back on itself into a digitized dervish. Matmos' Drew Daniel and M.C. Schmidt take Other Animals' title track into an area of androgynous drone jounce that reduces its lyrics into small splices of documentariantype vocal inflections. It surprisingly snaps like latex, the cutup voices of Lil' Lisa and J. Lesser recalling LaTour's \"People Are Still Having Sex\" bumped against some AFXvox distortion while hundreds of little sounds like rebooting Windows gongs, \"Beat It\" bongs, and digitized chimp chitters get in on the plunderphonic orgy. Adult. proves that their electro envelope warping is as sinewy as ever, twisting arpeggiation like prime Giorgio Moroder around the Other Animals track \"Marathon\". Perhaps shockingly, it's Kevin Blechdom (late of the notoriously scatological electroduo Blectum from Blechdom) that offers the most mutilated of entry. On \"Rat Race\", she loops voices into the wobbly moans of an offkilter carousel, distorting the calliope pipes and haphazardly tossing in snippets of bluegrass and squelches of bass, all far afield of any distinguishable features of Errata. But no matter the pedigree of the mixers involved here, none (save Blechdom) seem capable of altering the barbed and freaky contours of the group beyond recognition, much less take them out any further than the band has already gone. Each remixer ultimately sounds like themselves, which is curious, given the band's singular features. There are no extraneous sounds here; neither side is dressing up these paper dolls needlessly, nor stripping them down to anything leaner than what they originally were. It's a tough makeover, given the abstract time signatures and unpredictability that the girls swear by. Fortunately, everyone still looks good at the end of the night, even if they are switching sides. "}