{"label":" Sympathy for the Record Industry","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2802/homepage_large.226062d3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Roky Erickson & The Aliens","title":"The Evil One (Plus One)","text":" I hate to reduce the suffering of the mentally ill to spectacle, but damn they're entertaining! Every place I've lived in the lumpy American South has sustained a disproportionate number of tenured schizophrenics. Where I live now, on any given day in fact, every day one may spot some poor souls under compulsion to conduct counterintuitive acts in the streets, as if hexed into being involuntary performance artists. One fellow 'siegheils' at intersections. Another puts his head inside the Free Real Estate Guide dispenser and bellows, \"Bushels of wheat everywhere!\" One covers the city in magic marker formulas such as \"CBS minus HMO equals TAMPA.\" A man resembling Christopher Lloyd wraps his right arm in electrical tape and calls everyone \"Honeypardner.\" Asymmetrical women engage in heated arguments with themselves on every other public bench. Yesterday, a man grabbed my hand and tried in a series of abrupt tugs to drag me down the street with him, asking, \"I know you know me! Where my trees at? You going to get me some more trees, dawg?\" And just this morning, returning a book to the downtown library, I witnessed a screaming man trying to shake something only he could see out of a huge tree, like a liveaction Bosch variation on the remoteisland strandees of comics and cartoons. To be a jerk and evaluate their suffering aesthetically, though, I find it odd that much of the personal mythologies of the schizophrenics I've met are really unoriginal. Often, the sufferers just inflict upon themselves some conspiracy involving proper nouns from the three most obvious powersathand: the government, the Bible, and strangest of all, I think pop culture. I know a schizophrenic who posits that we all live in the Starship Enterprise, and another who believes that the world is controlled by the original MTV VJs. Advocate for the mentally ill Ken Steele admits in his posthumous memoir The Day the Voices Stopped that TV and the radio tortured him the most, as demon voices would join in commercials, or the chorus of \"nananana, heyheyhey, goodbye.\" Even pop genius Daniel Johnston's lore is populated by copywritten entities like Casper the Friendly Ghost and Captain America. And who runs former Thirteenth Floor Elevator Roky Erickson's shadow government? Silly Bmovie monsters. Roky isn't bothered by the fact that old movie monsters were bipedal failures of the imagination (ever consider what a true abomination of nature would look like?) with tackedon social messages (venereal disease, puberty, nukes are bad). Sympathy for the Record Industry is putting that White Stripes money to good use and rereleasing Roky's best postbreakdown album, offered in many forms and under many names since it was produced by Creedence bassist Stu Cook in 1980. You heard it here first: after Ron Howard's impish brother gets Jack Black to play Roky in the film An Unbeautiful Mind, this album will be huge, and showcased in a megadisplay right beside White Blood Cells at your local Best Buy. Accompanied by wailing, plasticky guitars and tight, propulsive drumming, a methsparked Roky warns his listeners of the monsters' power in a passionate, authoritative Texan drawl. Inarguably strong hooks abound, whether Roky is running from the gutthrowing \"Creature with the Atom Brain\" or demanding that you \"Stand for the Fire Demon.\" The atmospheric slomomentum of \"Night of the Vampire\" even gives CCR's \"Bad Moon Rising\" a run for its blood money. But the undisputed showstopper is \"I Think of Demons,\" a contagious love ballad on which Roky dedicates all of his Luciferian dialogues to a certain special someone: \"I think of demons [pause] for you.\" Close on that killer track's heels is the uncanny \"I Walked with a Zombie,\" on which Roky and the band do a callandresponse affirmation of the fact that he and the undead costroll, which accumulates to some authentically stirring Caucasian doowop. The bonuses on disc two (interviews, demos, rarities) are dandy, but the album is treasure enough. Its retrometal chops have more kaboom than the ironydiluted pap of current poseurs, and its bent lyrics mop the floor with wannabekooks like Jad Fair. Some savvy touches such as Roky's progressive prePC designation that the swamp monsters are \"alligatorpersons\" hint that Roky was more lucid than he let on. Maybe this record was his metaphorical way of communicating that he'd foreseen that the Reagan administration would reduce Americans to extras in a poorly acted horror film. If you can get past Roky's benevolentManson persona and ignore the extratextual psychodrama, there's a lot of rock to love here especially if you find yourself getting bonkers during the last hour of an interstate road trip. The Evil One is a dashboardpounding salve for those moments when the deer on the roadside start levitating and whispering backwards lullabies. "}