{"label":" Hatology","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2807/homepage_large.22223be4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Jim Black / Ellery Eskelin / Andrea Parkins","title":"Arcanum Moderne","text":" Saxophonist Ellery Eskelin isn't too sure about all this explanation. His trio, featuring keyboardist Andrea Parkins and drummer Jim Black, have released as steady stream of records for Swiss avantgarde imprint Hat Hut since 1996, and have just as steadily gained a lofty rep as one of the most interesting and creative jazz units. Taking cues from the classic Ornette Coleman quartet of the early 60s, up through the structured improv adventures of John Zorn in the 80s and on to any number of sounds and beats from today, his group has made the virtually miraculous discovery of playing new jazz that isn't 1) hopelessly traditional or 2) hopelessly experimental. In some ways, his music is always contradicting itself a tune here with a melody nicked from the schoolyard is almost uncomfortably straightforward; a piece there threatens to veer off into areas that have no context at all. Eskelin pens all his own liner notes, and his hesitancy to \"explain\" what is happening is probably warranted.Arcanum Moderne is the eighth release by this trio, and, like its predecessors, is an excellent example of how vibrant jazz can be in a world where rock, hiphop and electronic music are the dominant forms of artistic music expression. Still, I can't help but wonder if Eskelin might have helped us out by providing some background. Unlike last year's incredible 12(+1) Imaginary Views or 1998's Kulak 29+30, Arcanum seemingly emphasizes the abstract or at least on Eskelin's more expressive tendencies. Especially on the final two tracks, \"Half A Chance\" and the title piece, I'd almost go so far as to say this was as close to freejazz as the trio had come on record. Yet, Eskelin foils me in his notes when he talks about realizing most people weren't used to thinking of sounds in an improvised setting as being \"specific\" or \"intentional.\" Knowing there are structures at work on his prior albums, I wonder if he's trying to tell me something about this record. At the very least, it's most rewarding when you have the opportunity to give it repeated listens, with time to really consider what's happening.That said, the record begins in typically lighthearted and eclectic fashion with \"It's A Samba\". What is it? It's a samba, and also typical of Eskelin, the melody is simple yet perfectly memorable. His long tones glide over accordion and Black's deft, busy groove, and the trio once again finds a way to make sounds in a jazz setting that aren't obviously jazz. In between verses of melody, Black takes short solos without ever really coming out of the beat, though on the last statement, Parkins and Eskelin begin their double chorus. Parkins subtly modulates completely out of the original key while the saxophone makes various lowkey comments in and around the beat. Midway through, despite Black's persistent pulse, it's hard to believe this thing started so quaintly. The band veers almost completely off track just before the climax, when the trio joins Eskelin in a 4note repeated pattern, nailing each note with increasingly intense force. Black attacks his kit for a joyously wild solo chorus, and then the trio are right back to the beginning. It might sound scattered, but in the context of the record, \"It's A Samba\" is easily the most traditionally structured.\"43 RPM\" starts with a bang, with a wail from Eskelin and highspeed rock beat from Black. Again, the melody is simple, almost minimal, but the solo breaks are the real blood of the piece. Black's pulse morphs into manic drumnbass and Eskelin plays like a man possessed by both Albert Ayler and Maceo Parker. And what do you call this music? Instrumentation notwithstanding, I'd be hard pressed to say jazz, as hardcore noiserock freaks would have just as substantial a claim on it. Likewise, \"For No Good Reason\" begins with a jittery funk pulse, features extended solo forays by Eskelin without any hint of being connected to the rest of the tune, and then proceeds to ride out some strange form of torch song led by Parkins' piano figure owing more to \"Maybe I'm Amazed\" than any jazz standard.\"Half A Chance\" begins on breathy utterances from Eskelin's instrument, unaccompanied by his band mates. His figures are staunchly antimelodic, winding through registers like water running down the side of a very tall building. He is joined by ambient sounds, possibly emanating from Black's cymbals, though likely the result of some synth magic. This queasy atmosphere is maintained until Black crashes in with a few jabs to his toms, and Parkins whips out her accordion again. Their interaction is almost violently intense, though just as \"For No Good Reason\" resolved into soft strokes, here they hit the rocktinged processional. The title track seems to go about its way in the same way, beginning with very airy statements from Eskelin in fact, the tune ends very enigmatically with Eskelin \"playing\" nothing more than his own breath through the sax. Over the course of almost 15minutes, the trio investigates multiple textures (assisted largely by the Parkins' array of keyboard sounds and Black's love of handheld percussion), though with no clear point of reference, it's sometimes tough to know where they're going.Arcanum Moderne is not an easy record to recommend to folks unaccustomed to stuff without many obvious formal signposts. There is a moment in the title track, near the end, when the band converges on a single chord and everything seems resolved but if you were waiting for fireworks for its first ten minutes, you might have been disappointed. Eskelin notes that his audience doesn't really seem to be your typical jazz crowd, and one can only hope they come out in droves for this. I'd probably hip beginners to 12+1 Imaginary Views first, but ultimately Arcanum's rewards may very well be just as sweet. "}