{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2809/homepage_large.4e6b8b9e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Essex Green","title":"The Long Goodbye","text":" Deep into the month of April, and still the hunt for the spring/summer albums of 2003 goes on, tendons weary, sleep deprived, hope fading. By now the CD wallet reserves are usually full of music for those precious few humidityfree days above sixty, but lately we've been forced to resort to the standbys of years past rather than fresh meat. Originality is not necessarily a prerequisite; any virally contagious melody will do. In trying times like these, it might be helpful to look to the scraps left behind by the dissolved Elephant 6 franchise. The Essex Green offer promise, one of the few E6 acts with throwbacks to the Yankee side of psychedelic pop and the easiest group to imagine playing in Golden Gate Park at the turn of the 60s. Combining that era's strange mix of backwoodscountry idealism, quaint spacerace experimentation, and electric guitar dervishes, these Vermonters put together 1999's Everything Is Green, one of the finest releases from the E6 minor leagues. Now a subsidiary of the Merge corporation, The Essex Green's The Long Goodbye could be the album that moves the band out of the shadows of their former benefactors, a more mature effort and all that jazz/rock. It's a much more cohesive affair, a record less given towards ADD skips across the stylistic map, and like every band going through musical puberty, they've begun sprouting string arrangements like new body hair. Even the cocoarich voice of Sasha Bell, the band's most distinguishable feature, is given more precedence! So why do I forget I'm listening to the album by the time it's finished? Other than \"Our Lady in Havana\", a demurely epic Bellsung Alice in Wonderland tale (did I mention these guys like the late 60s?) wrapped in swaddling strings, The Long Goodbye is largely ephemeral. Stripped of their eccentricities (no Irish jigs, no dyeontheoverheadprojector guitar jams), the band seems to have evolved along the same path many of their SF idols trod, evolving into an act content to churn out happyafternoon folkrock like \"Sorry River\" and \"Southern States\". Meanwhile, tentative dives into more New England twang efforts are rather disappointing for a group that created an entire side project (The Sixth Great Lake) in tribute to The Band. \"Lazy May\" wrings out a nice opry from steel guitar tears, but conjures images of Russian kickdancers. Allowing that heavily ethnic sound, the merry banjo of the largely instrumental \"Old Dominion\" might as well be the score to a Sesame Street segment on barnyard animals for all the woodsy gravitas it doesn't possess. Mostly, The Essex Green just can't help sounding overly saturated by their influences, a fact that, while endearing on their debut where there also seemed to be more influences to draw from starts to show its limitations the second time around. California dreamin' like \"Berlin\" and \"The Late Great Cassiopia\" (sic) are certainly easy on the eardrums, but like bingeing on a snack food, you'll be hungry again an hour later. Even in the midst of an indiepop drought it's still possible to be choosy it's not time to settle for barely noticeable breezes like The Long Goodbye just yet. "}