{"label":" Akarma","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/283/homepage_large.711e0a75.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Area","title":"Revolution","text":" What do we want? I remember growing up with mom's 8tracks James Taylor, Dan Fogelberg, Linda Ronstadt knowing there must be more to life than softrock and the groovy afterthoughts of a million baby boomers. I heard rumblings of a better tomorrow via friends on the outside: Zach had Mötley Crüe and Michael Jackson, Jacob's brother had Def Leppard and the Ghostbusters soundtrack. These weren't things I had much access to, though. A change was required: I had to get out. Over the last couple of decades, I've been remedying the musical destitution of my youth. What do I want? What do we want? We want freedom. We want music! Enter Area, Italy's selfproclaimed \"International Popular Group.\" I would've hated this stuff when I was a kid, but now it's obvious that music and freedom were their specialties. In the early 70s, a young sextet from Milano with predominantly jazz backgrounds decided enough was enough, and had a go at playing music for the people, but decidedly not for the powers that were. The band would play rock because that was most important to young people, but it was hardly the sound of Chuck Berry or the Stones. In fact, Area would even take jabs at Led Zeppelin, such was their confidence of vision. Truthfully, the band was as bombastic, excessive and indulgent as any classic rock or prog gorilla. But it wasn't the music an explosive mixture of fusionera Miles, avantgarde pianist Cecil Taylor, protoMerzbow noise and even Mediterranean folk dances that earned Area initial headlines, and kept them in the Italian spotlight throughout the 70s. Greek vocalist Demetrio Stratos (who later worked with John Cage), was possessed of a radically expressive tenor, while Gianni Sassi penned words detailing the hypocrisy of the press he considered little more than a tool of a fascist Italian government, advocated anarchy, sympathy for the PLO, public protest and the struggle against capitalism. Press reports from the time speak of violent outbreaks approaching riots at their concerts, and derail the \"banners, gestures and words that reeked of fake slogans, just to pass their noisy sounds.\" Fittingly, over ten pages of the box liner notes are devoted to the political atrocities of Area's time. They weren't punk a band in the slightest, but they had the persona down pat.Revolution is a newly released box set collecting the first three Area studio releases and one live LP. For fans (you know who you are), it's a treat to hear these 24bit remasters (though I can definitely hear a few vinyl transfer cracks in there), and newcomers couldn't ask for a better way to become overnight fanatics. My caveats: If you go in expecting a full on skronkfest you're going to be disappointed; Area had chops, and restraint wasn't their strongest point. Conversely, if you go in expecting straight fusion or prog, Stratos' sometimes primal gutturalisms might scare you away, as might any of a number of synth lobotomies.Arbeit Macht Frei (1973), named for the infamous Nazi labor camp motto, was Area's debut, and established their already mastered fusion of, well, fusion, and various strains of the avantgarde. \"Luglio, Agosto, Settembre (Nero)\" would seem to be something of a war protest song (though all the words are in Italian), bringing to the fore Stratos' Greek heritage alongside its furious oddmeter folkdance figures. Typically, the band mixes in about a dozen ideas into one riff, strutting the stuff of keyboardist Patrizio Fariselli and drummer Giulio Capiozzo in the process, while Stratos' booming voice, even when he tries to whisper, threatens to turn each song into rock opera, even during free jazz implosions in the middle. The title track crosses free jazz, minimalism and hard rock all in the name of rampant disestablishmentarianism. If the lengthy solo breaks are too much to handle in one sitting, stay tuned. 1974's Caution Radiation Area, with a disturbing/hilarious back cover depicting guerilla fighters leaping over an image of the album's cover, trims the fat and leaves only the most radical elements of the group's sound intact. It is arguably the band's best album: \"Cometa Rossa\" is sharp refinement of Area's Mediterranean prog hybrid, and its middle section is seems to be straight Greek folkchant; \"ZYG (Crescita Zero)\" introduces some very spacy synth bombs and Stratos' alien proclamations, only to erupt with a jam on par with the Mahavishnu Orchestra's best moments. However, the most striking piece on the record is the grating closer, \"Lobotomia\". Featuring highpitched, screaming sinewave tones, it defies close listening and easy pigeonholing. 1975's Crac! toned down the experimental bend and upped the hard jam a bit, but was no less intense for the change. \"L'Elefante Bianco\" is possibly their best dance jam (and Ares Tavolazzi's hyperelastic bass hits are ace), while \"Le Mela di Odessa\" makes the argument that Italian bands can indeed get funky, over and over again, while playing \"Taps\" and \"Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy\" at totally inappropriate times. Yeah, shut up, it's great. That same year, the group released the live Are(A)zione. Like most of the great fusion bands, these guys tore it up live: Most of the tunes sound better here than they did on the studio albums. However, Area's political leanings dominate the proceedings on the their rather irreverent take on \"L'Internazionale\" (the anthem of the Socialist International), replete with free bass solo and raucous group improv, preceded by a whopping fifteen minute group session that should clue you in on where their focus actually is. The crowd loves it, of course, and the press doubtlessly reported the entire deviant event. All of these records are available as single discs, and if I had to choose one as a starter before diving into the box it would be Caution Radiation Area. Still, if you're into this kind of thing, it's hard to imagine not wanting all of it. Along with Magma and the Soft Machine, Area played some of the most exciting and adventurous avantrock in the 70s. Music and freedom make dangerous partners, and you don't need to understand the political implications of the Che Guevara portrait on the cover of Revolution, or even understand Italian, to hear the appeal of this stuff. "}