{"label":" After Hours","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2820/homepage_large.3f705828.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Euphone","title":"The Lakewood","text":" By now you've surely seen the commercials: a slightly outoffocus couple in Banana Republic leisurewear wander in a corn field as CDs rain down on them from the sky. A voice asks, \"Are you too... functional? Do you get up in the morning and do what is expected of you with marginally admirable resolve? Then you may be one of millions of Americans who suffer from AOK Disorder. Ask your doctor about Euphone. Studies show that Euphone can reduce your hectic, vervy self to a blissy, horizontal bag of fluid. Isn't it time you were lured into a prolonged, sophisticated coma? For years, Euphone has been one of the most trusted names in helping people disappear...\" And Korg have mercy if Euphone doesn't deliver the numbness you seek on this notquite fulllength, kicking out the slow jams with characteristic antibrio. The Lakewood is less the panacea that the band's past efforts labored to be rather it septupletasks, like one of those snack samplers your neglectful careerist mammy used to shove into your lunch sack along with a frigid helping of last night' tater tots and fish sticks. Nothing here tastes like its neighbors, as the band springboards from tone to tone and from mode to mode, isolating their own divergent strains as if unraveling their own genomes. So you get \"The Lakewood Burning Bad Boy\" whose bigdrum angularfest calls to mind a jukejoint Don Cab. All of a sudden you're struck by the quiet storm of \"Tools of Love\" whose echoing, dueling foregrounded and backgrounded keys assist the breathy vocals (can't nobody call Euphone wordless no more!) to sound like a white N.E.R.D. \"The Baldwin Wipeout\" is a showoffy solo piano nugget too retro for the album's own good, as its hyperactive ScottJoplinisms build and then fizz. \"Homodulations\" is another vocal track (!), selfconsciously juxtaposing raucous axery with disparate disco slinkiness. \"Fanfare\"'s delayed sticks and gorgeous bass pirate moves from Isotope 217 to eerily duplicates Squarepusher's Budakhan Mindphone. The wailing organ on the Coltrane cover, \"Countdown\", is another prime display but points to Euphone's flaw: straight jazz overhaunts their hints at groundbreaking postjazz. The closer, \"Passing Notes\", is a tribute to Euphone's strengths, though, as it does so much with so little. People talk about impressive power trios, but this subdued threepiece conjures a staggering amount of atmosphere, especially when rooted with only a handful of syrupy bass notes. The earthtoned, streamlined digital chaos of the packaging is fitting for this release, and hell, any band that thanks James Bond and Wilco's Leroy Bach can't be too lost. Even the pristine cloudiness of the production is deadon. Yet one wishes Euphone would get a little more recklessly inventive like the geniuses who thought up Reese's Peanut Butter Birth Control Cups and perpendicular bowling lanes. The masterful fingerwork is a tad conventional, is all. That said, The Lakewood is a variety show put on by instrumentswapping multiinstrumentalists that plays like a feeding frenzy on depressants. I dare you to set your CD player alarm to start with this electric dandelion. You won't ever wake up. "}