{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2837/homepage_large.3b7f01dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Ex","title":"Singles. Period. The Vinyl Years 1980-1990","text":" When the Ex formed in 1979, the band was more a name spraypainted on the walls of the Netherlands than an actual musical endeavor. It was the punk era, and a complete lack of musical experience didn't seem too great a barrier to overcome. The Ex made swift musical progress, though, and by the time they made their first recordings in 1980, four songs that comprised the selfreleased 7\" All Corpses Smell the Same, they were a sturdy, rhythmic unit with a good sense of dynamics. It was the start of a prolific run that's now gone on for 27 years, putting them just behind the Fall for extended high achievement by a punk band. Throughout their existence, the Ex have always been steadfastly uncommercial, refusing major label deals and remaining close to the radical politics that fueled them from the beginning. During their first decade, the Ex released a steady stream of albums and peripheral tracks, all on vinyl, and while the fulllengths have all found their way to CD, the numerous flexidiscs, compilation tracks, splits, and 7inch EPs they put out remain exceedingly rare.Singles. Period. rectifies this situation by compiling all 23 nonalbum tracks the band recorded from 19801990, nicely remastered with pulverizing lowend and liner notes so thorough they take the disc's full 70minute running time to read. The constants across the disc are Terrie Ex's ablating guitar and G.W. Sok's dry, amelodic vocals, taking on overzealous police raids, Apartheid, the El Salvadoran Civil War, and nuclear power with motormouthed rage. Bass players, drummers, and other assorted instrumentalists come and go around them, and the band evolves vividly across the chronologicallyarranged disc, taking the agitfunk of the Gang of Four to rougher, nastier extremes and mixing directly with the European radical groups whose causes they espoused. In 1981, they and others squatted a house called Villa Zuid in the small Dutch town of Wormer to prevent it from being torn down, recording the scathing \"Constitutional State\" for a compilation meant to benefit the building, ending with Sok's declamation \"A constitutional state? I guess it's too late.\" Years later, \"Rara Rap\" became something of a leftfield Dutch hit for the Ex the band wrote the song to protest the Dutch government's failure to prevent Dutch businesses from working with South Africa's Apartheid government. In between, the Ex raised money for striking British miners and split a 7\" single with the Kurdish folk band Awara, foreshadowing their collaborations with Eritrean and Congolese musicians more than a decade later. As important as politics are to the story of the Ex, though, there's an impressive musical progression on the disc as well. The early songs are brittle, nominally funky punk tunes with the occasional lead guitar phrase and arid production. By the time they got to 1983's \"Gonna Rob the Sperm Bank\", the Ex had begun to incorporate improvisation and a wider range of timbres into the sound. That song's razortoned guitar onslaught is underpinned by a nasty, industrial bassline and Sok sounds strangely at home lost in the maelstrom. \"Lied der Steinklopfer\" features a demonic horn arrangement and tape distortion, while Awara's violinist contributes a haunting solo to \"Enough Is Enough\", otherwise a frenzied beast of rhythm with what sounds like two simultaneous basslines crunching and grinding away at the utterly lockedin drums. The hard groove is even more terrifying on \"Long Live the Aged\", and one thing that this disc makes abundantly clear is that, even on their early releases, the Ex were never slack about their playing or arrangements, apparently realizing that if their songs weren't going to be catchy pop tunes, they needed something else for listeners to latch onto. The strategy worked, and there's not a moment here you could call tepid. Even the bad ideas, and there are a few, are executed with intensity and passion and usually yield at least a good drum beat. The Ex recorded some great albums in the 1980s, Pokkeherrie chief among them, but Singles. Period. is the strongest introduction to the band's early work available. "}