{"label":" Constellation","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2845/homepage_large.2c09ad6d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Exhaust","title":"Enregistraur","text":" Every so often you get a gift that you can't explain. You open a box and pull out a metal and plastic gizmo with knobs and joints that looks neat and seems useful... yet you can't figure out what the hell it is. The same thing happened to me when I got Exhaust's new album, Enregistreur: it's sitting here in its drab cardboard sleeve, and I have no idea what to do with it. How does it work? If you put it in a disc player, it makes noise: a low, muddy moaning sound, with rhythmic postrock instrumentals alongside ambient passages, sometimes becoming an almost mechanical noise, like a machine pushing down your street at night when it's too late even to wonder what it's doing out there. It doesn't come with instructions, aside from the playlist. It doesn't tell you that Exhaust is a trio from Montréal. Godspeed You Black Emperor!'s Aidan Gert plays the drums: he sticks to straight beats that mark the songlike sections of the music. In contrast, Gordon Krieger emits low swollen tones on bass and simple, raspy bass clarinet tones that sound like a dying vacuumcleaner. Mike Zabitsky's staticky tapes, electronics and sound effects scribble gently over Krieger's monotony.Enregistreur works at three speeds: moribund, languid, and brisk. The faster tracks are more likeable, especially \"Voiceboxed\", wherein Gert gets his beat on as the song goes through actual transitions and betrays a real and obvious structure. But others may prefer the abstract passages like the moody \"Gauss\", or \"Ice Storm\", where Zabitsky mixes in piercing glitches and not disciplined interruptions, but spritzing, loose wires, \"what's wrong with my stereo\" noises. So that's what you get. But how do you use it? At first I figured it was a headphones album. But the deep, sudden bass swells need more space. And it's too slow for background music: playing it in the car made my commute feel three hours long. So I decided it's art music: I sat down in the living room, laid out some wine and cheese, and waited chin in hand while it slouched out of my speakers. But here, too, it keeps fading to slower sections that defy my efforts to pay attention. It didn't take long before I drifted off and started flipping through The New Yorker cartoons. Now that's culture! And that's when I figured it out: Enregistreur doesn't claim to have a \"purpose\". Not only doesn't it engage the listener, but it's not even trying. When Gert's playing, the songs clank along like incidental noise from a machine; the abstract sections are as faceless as tar. The whole disc is a kind of information underload. In the text printed on the disc, Gert talks about getting trapped by an ice storm, stuck sitting in the dark: \"I realized that it had been way too long since I sat on the couch and did nothing but drink a beer and think...\" Enregistreur creates that feeling, as it leaves out cues or markers telling you how to listen: it confronts you with a shapelessness that can be refreshingly headclearing, as basic as flexing a muscle to lift your beer, and as minimal as sitting in a room by yourself. Of course, that may not be the listening experience you're looking for. As a tool for making a certain kind of sound, it definitely fulfills a function. But as music, it's not too rewarding. "}