{"label":" Slabco","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2852/homepage_large.0115623c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Explosion Robinson","title":"The Luxury Leader","text":" Pitchfork contributor Melissa Witkowski recently referred to Iceland's Múm as \"twee electronica, the Belle & Sebastian of IDM.\" A perfect description. But before twee electronica, there was twee triphop, and the great Los Angelesbased Slabco label's roster boasted the undisputed champions of the genre. Some of the early Sukpatch cassettes recorded when they still had a girl singing lead feature the most childlike Mo Tuckerstyle ballads sung atop samples of menacing rap loops, an absolutely killer combination that I've never heard done as well since. As suburban kids raised on the music, Sukpatch, Land of the Loops and Volume AllStar were among the first to hear something warm, nostalgic and a little sad in the hiphop break. Explosion Robinson is a oneman project by Steve Herman, who did time as a member of Sukpatch. And if you're familiar with that band, you probably have a good idea as to what Explosion Robinson sounds like: light instrumental hiphop pieced together with wellcrafted beats, plenty of Moog, bits of scratching, and samples galore. It's a familiar formula for longtime Slabco diehards such as myself, and Explosion Robinson executes it with style. Still, after Dynomite D and Draco offered new takes on the Slabco sound last year, this album suffers a bit for being such a retread. \"Down Home\" opens the album with a vocodered voice saying, \"Prepare to activate,\" instantly leading me to believe I'd grabbed the nearby Emperor Penguin CD from my collection by mistake. But then the beats fold in, and I knew I was miles away from those stiff (if charming) Chicagoans. \"Gold Chain\" has some greasy wahwah Moog work, a nice laidback Dreinspired cut for chillin' that also has a tendency to just lie there without ever grabbing the listener by the collar. \"Work It, Bitch\" cops a new wave vibe, with a selfconsciously herkyjerky synth refrain, a rare scene from Gary Numan's happy childhood.The Luxury Leader's grooves are what save it from complete blandness. In addition to their melodic sense, the beat construction was always Sukpatch's ace in the hole. Though the songs were and are numbingly repetitive (in the best possible way), Sukpatch's beats had a real swing to them, vaguely connected in my mind to the jazzy production of Native Tonguesera hiphop. Explosion Robinson comes close to matching this rhythmic verve, but the songs consistently fall just short of being catchy. Something's missing: voices. \"Glass Packs\" is the perfect example of a nice backing track crying out for some foreground. It's got a solid bass riff, punchy drums and earcatching sampled refrains, but could use either a melody or some rapping out front to give it focus. The Luxury Leader seems like an decent sketch for what could have been an excellent album. "}