{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2857/homepage_large.5972060e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Explosions In the Sky","title":"The Rescue (Travels in Constants Vol. 21)","text":" Thanks to a series of phenomenal albums and a reputation for jawdropping live performances, Explosions in the Sky have become one of the strongest voices in postrock. Even so, it was surprising when the band was commissioned to provide the score for the high school football film Friday Night Lights, a movie whose core audience has likely never heard of them. The soundtrack's subtle, moody compositions were unlike their typically explosive, epic work, and that shift toward a quieter, more delicate sound is found again on volume 21 of Temporary Residence Limited's mailorderonly Travels in Constants series. For The Rescue, Explosions in the Sky recorded eight songs in eight days, creating a slightly disconnected affair, with the band in an atypically casual, carefree mood. Freeing themselves from the constraints of a normal cohesive thematic unit, they branch out, experimenting with new instruments, voices, and moods. Although the songs lack some of the tensionbuilding dynamics of their previous works, they are still compelling, passionate, and full of beautiful elements and energetic performances, and many of the band's more recognizable characteristics hollow, bright guitar tones, marching snare rolls, and sorrowful yet ultimately triumphant melodies are still here. The tracks are titled \"Day One\" through \"Day Eight\", presumably representing the day each was arranged and recorded. \"Day One\" opens with a quiet feedback and shuffling drumbeat would easily fit in on either of the last two full lengths. On \"Day Two\", new paths unfold. The track's primary instrument is the piano, and a chorus of oohs and aahs swirls throughout. It's the first time vocals have graced an Explosions in the Sky track, but they're used primarily as texture rather than the song's focus.  Piano is also prominently featured on many of the tracks here: On \"Day Four\", it tinkles over downmixed cymbal crashes and delayed guitar strumming. On \"Day Five\" the most upbeat and cheerful thing the band has recorded sharp piano and chiming bells augment echoing guitar melodies. Maintaining the jovial feel, \"Day Seven\" is reminiscent of a forlorn holiday tune, with jingling bells and more ethereal nonverbal vocals.  \"Day Six\" stands out as the album's strongest offering. Reversing the crescendo pattern used by so many instrumental bands, the song begins with booming drums and layers of distorted bass, highend guitars, and uplifting piano. But then, after a minute and a half, it melts away into a familiar feedback drone, and the instruments creep back in a much more subdued manner. Thanks to increasing skill and higher production values, the band has mastered the art of using guitars to mimic other instruments, and throughout the latter portion of the song, they drone in the background, trilling like flutes and gliding like violins.  The only real misstep here occurs in \"Day Three\", which could've been a creepy, atmospheric piece built on swirling ambient tones and reversed guitar chords. Any amount of focus that could be placed on those elements, however, is distracted by the inclusion of a conversation about a failed van transmission and the amount of money required to fix it. Even in an album that features more relaxed and lighthearted material, this seems out of place. It's not only a distraction in the song, but it unfortunately breaks up an otherwise captivating, albeit brief, album.  "}