{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2859/homepage_large.2c47ec5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Extra Lens","title":"Martial Arts Weekend","text":" Things I would give Mountain Goats charter member John Darnielle for his birthday: 1. an editor 2. a band 3. one of those golftee brainteaser peg games from the Cracker Barrel 4. an electric guitar Of course, a real Darnielle fanatic would find most of these suggestions to be downright heretical. With a veritable mountain of cassette tapes and compact discs, the California nurse/rock critic has carved himself a distinct sound; one of hardstrummed acoustics, nonexistent recording budgets, and razorkeen lyricism. While this approach continues to exhibit strong vital signs this year's All Hail West Texas served as one of his best records yet I can't help but speculate at the potential of a more fleshedout sound. Chalk it up to the 'Stick With What Works' vs. 'Explore New Directions' dilemma that confronts any artist stable enough to find their way beyond album #3. Fortunately, along come the Extra Glenns to test my hypothesis that Darnielle's eccentricities would survive, and maybe even be enhanced by, additional musicians and instruments. The setup: a collaboration with Franklin Bruno of Nothing Painted Blue, who contributes piano, backing vocals, and one of those newfangled guitars that plug into an amplifier. A full band it's not; there are still no drums, bass, or gospeltrained backup singers. But it's a step in the direction of appeasing my curiosity. Too bad Martial Arts Weekend leaves out my favorite member of the Mountain Goats team, the Panasonic RXFT500 boombox that gives the bulk of Darnielle's discography that wonderfully nofi, transistor radio character. Recorded on actual functioning equipment, Martial Arts Weekend has none of the tape hiss and EQredzone distortion that fills in the empty space around Darnielle's solo jobs. And since Bruno prefers to use a light, shimmery guitar tone that provides little in the way of lowend, everything has the skinny, halffinished sound of your favorite 80s records (when treble was king). As a result, a dozen typical, but strong Darnielle compositions (plus one absolutely unbearable Leonard Cohen cover) are brought down by an overabundance of empty sonic real estate and a shared songwriting byline. To his credit, Bruno's embellishments are kept simple enough to not be distracting, and they manage to add a little extra flavor to back catalog echo songs like \"Baltimore\" or \"Malevolent Seascape Y.\" But then again, neither his sixstring or ivorytinkling work is particularly revelatory nothing he plays jumps out as being so essential that a track might collapse without it. The real culprit here could actually be Darnielle, whose parts already sound fully realized without Bruno's flourishes, which lends the project a largely inorganic feel like that of Robert Pollard's recent tapesbymail experiments. Still, I'd be lying if I said there weren't enjoyable moments to be had. While the album doesn't have the consistency of recent Mountain Goats LPs, it hits as often as early albums like Zopilote Machine and Nine Black Poppies. Bruno adds a mournful harmonica to the jaunty \"Somebody Else's Parking Lot in Sebastapol\" and comes up with a neat complementary riff and jazzy piano solo to soup up \"Twelve Hands High.\" Meanwhile, Darnielle calls upon all his triedandtrue lyrical themes: flora, geography, and acrobatic mentions of historical figures like Verdi and Kierkegaard. Especially nice is the 'roadtripbattleovercarstereoprivilegesasmetaphorfordecayingrelationship' in \"Going to Michigan,\" and the loveishardertokillthanFreddyKreuger track \"Going to Marrakesh\" (choice line: \"Our love is like Jesus/ But worse\"). But after the initial novelty of hearing more than your average instrumentation beneath Darnielle's literate whine, Martial Arts Weekend comes off as a semipleasing but secondtier Mountain Goats effort. And as a test of my 'try it with a band' theory, the results are strictly inconclusive after all, only one of my four birthday gifts really turn up fullfledged. At least I won't have to take back that Cracker Barrel golftee game. "}