{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2875/homepage_large.18831570.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Espers","title":"The Weed Tree EP","text":" Of all the acts on the crowded landscape of contemporary psychfolk, Philadelphia's Espers have perhaps the deepest, most abiding reverence for classic late 60sera British folk. So it comes as little surprise that they've followed their excellent 2004 debut LP with The Weed Tree, a short collection of covers in the most stouthearted folkloric tradition. The set blends traditional folk standards (\"Rosemary Lane\", \"Black Is the Color of My True Love's Hair\") with tracks from sources both predictable (Nico, Michael Hurley) and not (Durutti Column, Blue Öyster Cult.) Yet throughout the album Espers are able to deliver these disparate tracks with enough quiet authority and sheer transportive beauty to ever settle into stale mimicry, blurring the origins of the songs until they each seem to have been issued from a single fertile source. Still centered around the nucleus of Greg Weeks, Meg Baird, and Brooke Sietinsons, The Weed Tree finds the group having officially grown into a sextet, and their expert arrangements here are a dense thicket of guitars, cello, recorders, and various spirited embellishments. Beneath the music's placid surfaces, however, stirs a current of discontent, as nearly every song is built on the timehonored folk traditions of loss, unrequited love, and/or isolation. When coupled with the occasional stray flare of acidic dissonance, these downcast lyrical themes provide a necessary counterpoint to Espers' frequently breathtaking vocal harmonies and pristine instrumentation, giving this disc a subtle but commanding dramatic sweep. Particularly telling is the group's version of \"Black Is the Color\", one of the most covered songs in the folk canon. In its oldest form this song is a simple ballad of devotion, but Espers have characteristically chosen the darker path, with Weeks and Baird joining in exquisite lament on a verse left off in many versions: \"Satisfied I will never be/ I'll write him a letter, just a few short lines/ And suffer death a thousand times.\" This thread of desperate longing carries over to their covers of the Durutti Column's \"Tomorrow\" and Nico's \"Afraid\", while their Bert Janschinspired rendition of \"Rosemary Lane\" reminds us that our romantic miseries don't necessarily end upon an affair's consummation. Nearly every group, folk or otherwise, could benefit from covering a Michael Hurley song, and Espers strike paydirt on their take of his \"Blue Mountain\", shooting its melody through with disorienting whistles that resonate like a canyon full of intoxicated songbirds. This heavilyreverbed disorder leads quite comfortably into their molten version of BÖC's \"Flaming Telepath\", with Weeks' quicksilver guitar excursions effortlessly transcribing the selfmedicated despair of the lyrics. And as The Weed Tree closes with its sole Espers original the percussive, Easterntinged \"Dead King\" one is left with the strong impression that the group is just now beginning to fully synthesize their various influences to map their own seductive trail through the moonlit folk woodlands. "}