{"label":" Fresh Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2885/homepage_large.9c469304.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Endochine","title":"Day Two","text":" Little scribbly lines zigzagging and arcing over a black background, a TV with the message \"I hate you\" repeated on its screen, a little electrical schematic with \"Endochine\" scrawled in the middle, a partial fingerprint... let's not beat around the bush. This is Radiohead, Jr. album art at its most facile and unimaginative. Its Photoshop 5.0 throwtogether look functions nicely as a microcosm of just how grossly Radiohead have been misinterpreted by their legion of imitators, and while Endochine themselves don't fare as badly at it as, say, Marion, Palo Alto, Ours or Cardia, their debut makes crystal clear that baby's got The Bends and has memorized every note of it. The Austin, TX quintet (don't let the occasional Oxford inflection fool you) are capable, even superlative musicians, and the twopart harmonies of guitarists Casey McPherson and Nathan Harlan broaden the band's postBritpop scope, even as they shoplift their melodic tics from Thom Yorke and pinch their falsettos from Coldplay's Chris Martin. \"A New Beginning\" parachutes a Martinish croon into the middle of a shuffling, pianodirge stew (complete with mellotron choir) with a melody that borrows almost every one of Yorke's signature moves, including those little slurs into dissonance he does so well. Most of the album charges harder than that song, as the band shoots for epic anthems and sometimes come close to hitting the mark. \"Breadline\" rides thumping drums and blaring guitars, but then the band fall prey to the obligatory stereotyped drug references (\"Shooting up in the mainline/ I'll get my fix\") and sunnyside preaching (\"You must keep on holding on\") that plague so many bands operating in this territory. Though Harlan and McPherson try their damnedest, delivering those kinds of lines with conviction doesn't make them any more meaningful. The two deliver some of their best harmonies on \"Music to Drive and Cry To\", sounding a lot like Doves with bigger guitars, and achieving a sort of epic sweep as they plow through the reverb with big, buzzing riffs. But that's the overarching problem with the album the whole thing has a kindabroad sweep and a sortaepic feel, yet never quite reaches either goal, ultimately coming off as an attempted masterpiece that lacked the substance to hit home. This is actually symptomatic of a lot of the postRadiohead rabble, and while they frequently manage to get things right on paper the soaring melodies, the bold, jagged guitars, the odd synth or drum loop here and there it always lacks the risk that made Radiohead's original item work so well, and there's nothing different happening here. Endochine certainly have potential, but they need to let their assets coalesce in their own way first if they're ever going to realize it. "}