{"label":" Dischord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2892/homepage_large.953714fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"The Evens","title":"The Evens","text":" It's been nearly four full years since the release of Fugazi's The Argument, which, by some distance, qualifies as the longest dry spell of new Ian MacKaye material in his storied, 20plus year recording career. The Fugazi faithful, however, will be continuing their patient vigil for fresh music from the full group: MacKaye has instead turned his eye at least for now to a new project, the Evens. A duo comprised of MacKaye and former Warmers drummer/vocalist Amy Farina, the Evens distill Fugazi's familiar locomotive posthardcore down to its barest essentials. Utilizing casually rich vocal harmonies and the bubbling warmth of baritone guitar, the Evens readdress the steadfast themes of MacKaye's work dating back to his Minor Threat days: contempt for the tyranny of petty authority, dismay at the disintegration of local community, and a passionate conviction in critical thinking and selfreliance. But thanks to the intimacy of the Evens' approach (as well as to their impressively welldeveloped melodic sensibilities), the album displays a beguiling tenderness not often present in MacKaye's previous efforts, a laidback, disarming sweetness that causes the Evens' eponymous debut to feel like his most personal work to date.The Evens positively brims with revelations, not least of which is the consistent effectiveness of MacKaye's singing voice. Though melodic Fugazi tracks like The Argument's \"Cashout\" or \"I'm So Tired\" from the Instrument soundtrack have hinted at the broader possibilities of his vocal range, his work here represents the first time he's wholly abandoned his trademark rottweiler bark for an album's entirety. Here his vocals are particularly appealing when closely coupled with Farina's, whose bracingly cloudless voice proves to be an ideal match for MacKaye's weathered, pliable delivery. Farina, however, is far from merely MacKaye's supporting player, and thoroughly establishes herself as a fully vested partner. Her lead vocals on tracks like \"Around the Corner\" and \"If It's Water\" spur pleasant memories of the early90s heyday of femmeled indie outfits like Tsunami or Scrawl, and her inventive, textured percussion serves to remind the listener how boring and perfunctory the majority of rockbased drumming actually is. When paired with MacKaye's restless, rumbling baritone guitar, her lowlit drumming can cast tracks (particularly \"Sara Lee\" or \"Minding One's Business\") in alluring, almost Tortoiselike postrock hues, which provides the album with incredibly vivid depth of field, despite the duo's simplified, modest palette. Though powerhouse tracks like \"All These Governors\" and \"You Won't Feel a Thing\" pack the strongest initial mulekick (closely related to such Fugazi anthems like \"Keep Your Eyes Open\" or \"Great Cop\", both songs come equipped with classically direct MacKaye choruses like, \"They'll beat you with the truth so you won't feel the lies\") many of The Evens' most memorable moments occur within the intimate portraiture of \"Blessed Not Lucky,\" or the opening \"Shelter Two\". Cataloging the minute details of a new relationship, \"Shelter Two\" makes a trip to the hardware store sound like high adventure, as MacKaye and Farina sing, \"We keep on climbing but we never find the top/ It's all downhill from here,\" in untailored ExeneandJohn Doe harmonies, sweetly punctuating the importance of these crucial, seemingly trivial moments that so often comprise the highlights of our lives. There are occasions when the album too closely resembles the skeletal, unfinished demos that bulked up the Instrument soundtrack, and others where one can't help but imagine how Fugazi might've handled these songs. (I suspect the Canty/Lally rhythm section could absolutely pulverize \"You Won't Feel a Thing\" in a live context or at least I'd like to hear them try.) Ultimately, though, this eponymous debut not only introduces the Evens as a wholly distinct and vital group, but also contains performances that MacKaye would likely have been unable to deliver in any other context. "}