{"label":" Monitor","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2902/homepage_large.d68e9fb6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Early Man","title":"Early Man EP","text":" Not for nothing is it called metal. There's some flexibility to the idiom it can be light and aerodynamic or titanically heavy; quick and nimble or unapologetically slothful; deadly efficient or clumsily longwinded but one thing is sure: There's no opposing force it cannot withstand. If the carnival strongman can bend you over his shoulders, you've failed. For their part, Early Man fail robustly on their new selftitled EP. Rife with blunders both technical and tactical, the album dumbfounds more than it offends. The band aren't inept, but trying to nail Reign in Blood kicks without razorsharp chops is fatuous. Taking on the metal demigods, Early Man are like a squad of college doughboys come to contend against Schwarzenegger for Mr. Universe '73. The band is manhandled by their own poorlyexecuted songs. Sloppiness is part and parcel of the stoner metal appellation, but Early Man don't fester in reverbsaturated mudpits of their imprecision; they chug, stomp, wiggle and kick the way a more technically proficient outfit might, only seldom hitting their target. Word is, Early Man was hastily recorded on free studio time and intended just as a promotional tool for the undiscovered duo. In that case, it's easier to forgive the flaccid recording, which sounds pounded into a squishy pâté. Metal comes served many ways, but spread on crackers is not a preferred method. Delivered in a studied Hetfieldian croon, Mike Conte's vocals are deliberately dumb and devoid of imagination. As a beersodden brawler's anthem, \"Fight!\" is successful: it couldn't be more retarded. \"Alright, so you wanna fight,\" Conte sings, \"My fists are sticks of dynamite/ Fuck you if you're talking to may/ My fuse blows quick like TNTay!\" At least give us the Angel of Death, or something remotely visceral. Fortunately, Conte's verses on \"The Undertaker Is Calling You\" are warped beyond recognition the sound is much more convincing than the meaning. Early Man are disagreeably contrived, ripping from metal legends past and present with sufficient accuracy but little reverence. (I thought I caught a whiff of parody, although now I'm pretty sure the band are entirely sincere.) \"Death Is the Answer to My Prayers\" is a Sabbathstyle dirge, complete with plenty of stupidfun quarternote bashing and a demonically crooked vocal delivery. But as with this perfunctory teaser's other two tracks, Early Man can rock so much harder. Here's hoping their new label, Matador, finds these boys a fancy engineer who'll sharpen the blades and give their words someplace to hide. Such a finetuning might not flip that rating, but it would give the band's brokenbottle narratives some heft. "}