{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2915/homepage_large.b718c14d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Jimmy Edgar","title":"Color Strip","text":" Listening to the opening \"Pret'a'porter\" from this debut fulllength by Detroit kid Jimmy Edgar brings to mind the late 1990s, when Timbaland's nimble electronic production style emerged and a few people commented that he was making tracks far more \"intelligent\" and \"danceable\" than anything coming out of proper IDM. Hiphop production turned a corner around that time, and all of a sudden ideas incubated in British and European dance music scenes were fair game. With its catchy descending keyboard line pulled from jazz fusion, chopshop vocals that zip by like a flipbook animation, and drums that keep tumbling over themselves as they move relentlessly forward, \"Pret'a'porter\" jumps back and forth over the past decade to give a different spin on the virtuosic programming once synonymous with Warp. The production is generally contemporary, but you can't be a dude in your early twenties making electronic music in Detroit and not spend time looking back. Edgar seems comfortable with earlier styles, picking and choosing the bits that mesh easily with his more postrave sound. \"Personal Information\", for example, with its three poppy chords and ridged groove, is pure and effective breakdance electro. Vocals are a regular presence, and Edgar uses flat, robotic processing in a manner suggestive of Juan Atkins circa Cybotron's \"Clear\", where the words are sound first, an outlet for nuggetsized slogans second, and never aspire to be elements of pop song. Some are so silly they distract from the musical pleasure (\"I Wanna Be Your STD\" yuck) but for the most part they stay a layer back from the main action, as designed. The spoken bits in one of the record's best tracks, the Drexciyainfluenced \"Jefferson Interception\", reinforce the song's aged feel and sense of an alternative history; the clean efficiency of the electronics seem to portray a bygone vision of the future in which Detroit might have been central. (Jefferson Avenue is a primary thoroughfare in the city, spanning grinding innercity poverty to the vast wealth of the suburbs.) You can almost see the packed assembly lines endlessly turning out products for which one assumes there would be a market. Techno is ideally suited to such melancholy imagery, something Edgar seems to understand. In spots Edgar gets more abstract, as on the middling drone/drift track \"Telautraux\", but generally he's too enamored with futurist techno's percussive vision to stay there long. By any measure Color Strip is a strong debut. There is no new ground being broken but that's not the point; Edgar comes across as a committed student, absorbing twentyfive years of electronic music and figuring out how to integrate and mold the history into something that sits comfortably in the now. From the evidence here he is well on his way. "}