{"label":" Sanctuary / Castle","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2946/homepage_large.5a23c7f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"The Fall","title":"It's the New Thing! - The Step Forward Years","text":" The saying goes that if it's Mark E. Smith and your grandma, it's still The Fall. My granny has more teeth these days, but The Fall have proven more durable than anyone could have fathomed. From their inception in the wake of a 1976 Sex Pistols show in Manchester, lineup shifts have partially disguised how rigorously strippeddown The Fall's sound has always been, and how enervating the noise is. Of course, the accommodating, slight sugary pop brought on board by wife Brix made the bitter musings of M.E.S. popularly palatable for a decade, but it still comes down to the singular, caterwauling caustics of that exdock worker, and the relentless drums thudding behind him. Smith is cantankerous enough to combine the wit of Peter Hammill with the purely physical, fricative qualities of the human mouth, a là Henri Chopin, all with an equal affinity for adenoidal rockabilly acetates and crackling Big Youth dub plates. Such a simple formula delivers variations on these lingual themes in thick rapspeak and hiccupping hollers to make Smith a singular creature in pop music, carrying forth unabated throughout his existence. But The Fall plop out at least two discs a year. It's always been hard to keep up; in fact, a new BBC collection and box set of 2001 bootlegs have surfaced just as of this writing. Even the most devout fans I know gave up after The Frenz Experiment, though a few diehards stuck it out until Brix's return (she left Mark in the late 80s) on Light User Syndrome (1996). Even the stalwarts have surely been overwhelmed by the deluge of scrap material released since. To that end, these two reissues straddle the band's career.It's the New Thing! compiles the burgeoning croaks of the group, when they were signed with Step Forward, who released four Fall singles and two albums. The ground plans are laid bare on this set in the sneering manifestos that would inform each and every step Smith took thereafter. Soundbites such as \"We are the Fall; Northern white crap that talks back\" couldn't hit the nail any harder or more precisely on the head, were it not for the even earlier aside \"Repetition\", which shows his hand and their MO from that instance forth. Calling out for \"white noise\" at the start, Mark E. details the three R's of his music: \"Repetition, repetition, repetition...Repetition's in our music and we're never gonna lose it.\" Can't say he didn't warn us. \"Frightened\" the first cut off of Live at the Witch Trials (1977) reveals a tune as overtly anthemic as anything else the Fall would attempt for the next twentyfive years, the beats and chords reveling in a freedom that Smith would soon nip in the bud, snipping the melodic elements out of the group altogether. \"Rebellious Jukebox\" is a jangly pop slice that shows a side to the band that wouldn't be resurrected and ridden to its artistic peak until Brix hitched up with the old man in '83. \"Rowche Rumble\" is weird, wiry springs of gutstring guitars quivering as tympanicky thuds jerks about like jackedup jokers, Smith jeering at valium addicts and their \"suppliers,\" a sound joyous and addictive.Dragnet (1979) is by far the roughest and most assiduously lofi of Fall albums (not counting live albums like Totale's Turns), but still hides great flashes in its murk. \"Psykick Dancehall\" is close to a Fall standard, the verbiage a skull chockfull of paranoia, hipsterpricks, record collections, and other hobgoblins of the mind. \"Spectre Vs Rector\" is as much a minimal rock tape composition as it is an eightminute epic of New Zealand scenespawning, as cheapspeaker fibrillations, iniquitous riffnoise, and wobbly cassette wheels push about, loutish and callous, even as the beat of the band clanks to life amongst the distorted live tape backing. Castle Music cannot decide if its trying to compile all of the Fall's singles from this time period or rerelease the first two albums (Live at the Witch Trials and Dragnet), so instead, It's the New Thing! does neither. Early Fall sides like \"BingoMasters BreakOut\", \"Various Times\", \"In My Area\", and \"Psykick Dancehall 2\" are dropped. Four tracks are left off of Dragnet and the middle of Live is gutted. It's not onestop shopping, but the crucial stuff is all jammed in here. For all the highlights of that one disc, the three CD set Time Enough at Last culls together the headscratching discs that followed in the wake of the hohum Light Syndrome User from 1996. Oxymoron, Cheetham Hill, and 15 Ways to Leave Your Man appeared on each other's heels with nary a personnel description or explanation as to their point. 15 Ways is a somewhat tepid live show from London's Astoria in 1996, but both accompanying records have live tracks thrown in to confound matters further. Such is the story of Receiver records' pillaging of The Fall's back catalog: shameless, excessive, inexplicable. UnutterableOxymoron is an album package of lips and assholes (literally), with shitloads of vocal processing on Mark E.'s sneer, an unrepentant setting for the clap tracks, and painfully dated drum programming. It somehow works with the Peter Gunnguitar riffs on the title track and the dateless bounce that the Fall does so effortlessly on \"Powder Keg\". Even with a near hiphop pattern that simultaneously loads some New Order synth patches in, \"White Lines\" is tolerable, and it has nary a whine or word in sight. But who could withstand the limpid rap Brix does on \"Glam Racket\", which positively reeks of her time spent in the widow Love's shadow, auditioning as a replacement for Hole's overdosed bassist. Another instro shows up as an \"Italiano\" roadster, pumping cheap acid F/X as it whizzes past. This reveals the repackaging problems that originally plagued this stretch of the Fall discography: not even twenty minutes have passed, and already \"Oxymoron\" is rechristened \"He Pep!\" and given the runthrough once again. \"Interlude/Chilinism\" turns up on Cheetham Hill as \"The Chisellers\", and again in a live form as, uh, \"Chilinist\". \"E.S.P. Disco\" = \"Psykick Dancehall\" live.Cheetham Hill suffers similarly as the first disc, as a scrap heap with a few gleanable keepers like the mellowed \"Time Enough at Last\". The track listing is cluttered with castaways from such indistinguishable Fall albums like Code: Selfish, Cerebral Caustic and The Light User Syndrome. While it's handy to have all the dubious titles that Receiver first foisted on the public in one box, there's so many titles vying for attention that all but the heartiest of Fallophiles will already have passed the saturation point into nausea well before you have time enough to go through all of these. "}