{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2964/homepage_large.5b35d5e9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Fantômas","title":"Delìrivm Cordìa","text":" What if Fantômas held a horror movie and nobody came? More appropriately, what if they held a horror movie lasting about an hour too long and people started walking out in the middle? Or, what if the movie itself was okay but the end credits took up a quarter of the entire running time and didn't actually tell us anything about what just happened? What, then, would reasonable ticket buyers do, especially had they just been held as a captive audience to creepy midnight autopsies and \"surgical sound specimens from the museum of skin?\" Oh, and there's no intermission. In fact, there are no scenes, rather one long, painful odyssey into the world of demented surgeons, graveyard theft and flatliner dynamics.Del\\xECrivm Cord\\xECa, Fantômas' third album of gothic, carnival goon horrormetal, suffers at the hands of its own density and impenetrable ambience. Chiefly, I'm beginning to think Mike Patton (like John Zorn) is convinced that his version of \"atmosphere\" is a lot more gripping than it really is. His band's latest opus into wouldbe horror soundtracks might well sound perfect if stretched under a lowbudget, highgore Mark Borchardt film detailing the various indecencies of highly unnecessary anatomical experimentation, but on its own tends to drag. And I'm not just talking about the final 20 minutes of vinyl endgroove, but a sense throughout that, despite an impressive mixture of black textures and depressosludge, all these scary moments should add up to more than tedious noirmoods and the occasional flash of visceral thrill. The album is comprised of but one track and will invariably work its most magic when you can afford to listen, uninterrupted, alone in a dark and stormy place (or as the background score for Silent Hill). It begins with a vinyl crackle and the soft ping of a distant music box. And suddenly Patton coos and guitar and drums bash something awful! Gasp! Then, as the music box returns and Patton once again uses his breathy falsetto to summon girly demons from the dank beyond, a Benedictine choir enters with a morose serenade. A ghastly wind comes from the east and overtakes their moan before... a shriek! All hell breaks loose for a few seconds, and afterwards only a church organ remains to (dis)comfort you. After a brief voluntary, the whole band enters on what sounds like a Morricone death march, as Patton doubles a melody with twang guitar and mandolin, accompanied by a jittery tambourine. This section leads to the most interesting on the CD, as handclaps, percussion and Patton's everchanging vocals perform something like a voodoo ritual, akin to Zorn's \"Sex Magick\" from IAO. Furthermore, Dave Lombardo's furious snare pounding lends a much needed intensity. So while Del\\xECrivm Cord\\xECa is filled with great blocks of sound, it too often loses sight of direction. Were there images to accompany the music, perhaps its pacing might not seem quite so turgid. The eerily gorgeous, pianoled melody about ten minutes in is vastly overwhelmed by the girth of sound around it, and is long forgotten by the time I make it all the way through the record. Other moments, like the nifty hihat and pitterpatter vocals a half hour into the album, could have been excellent songs unto themselves were they fleshed out a little.Del\\xECrivm Cord\\xECa might have been given extra life were the individual sections indexed, and I could go back to the coolest moments, or program a Fantômasredux album all my own. Since the band favor long stretches of minimal activity interrupted by jarring, metallic transitions, it's hard to consider this a very good \"ambient\" record. Nor is it an interesting soundtrack, without much in the way of \"story\" other than the admittedly impressive artwork in the CD insert. There are more than enough ideas here for a truly scary record, but as it stands, Del\\xECrivm Cord\\xECa works best as particularly damaged, gloomy background music, and little else. "}