{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2965/homepage_large.3a76a5d5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Fantômas","title":"Suspended Animation","text":" Apparently Fantômas read their own reviews. A year after critics and listeners alike griped over Delirium Cordia's onetrack, 74minute masturbatory venture into horrorfilm scores and spookmetal, Mike Patton pulls a complete 180 with Suspended Animation. Hated 74minute tracks? Patton splits his new record into 30 tracks (chronologically named after a day in April 2005), with most falling short of the twominute mark. Turned off by the whole horror thing? Well, Patton's got a cute little twist horror and death metal are still prevalent on Suspended Animation, but to lighten things up, Fantômas borrow from the playful, nostalgic world of cartoons. And yet the album still suffers from the same flaws that hampered Delirium Cordia. With the average track spanning less than 90 seconds, musical ideas either bleed from one song to the next or don't sustain themselves long enough to register in the listener's head. The 30 tracks thus fuse into one 44minute conglomerate, making the album a truncated, accelerated version of Delirium. And as for the lighthearted \"Looney Tunes\" motif, let's just say Patton's idea of good ol' fashioned Saturday morning programming is less \"Duck Tales\" than it is \"Tales From the Crypt\". Just as nearly every horror film nowadays contains a climax where some sixyearold sitting on the floor sings \"Mary Had a Little Lamb\" moments before the killer emerges, the children's voice samples and bizarre juxtapositions of music boxes and unearthly shrieking terrify much more effectively than they amuse. Despite the novelty, Fantômas occasionally remind us of their esteemed metal pedigree, and, if only in small doses, give a glimpse of their true potential. \"04/02/05 Saturday\" opens with a brief but brilliant math metal riff from Melvins frontman Buzz Osborne, and Dave Lombardo's apocalyptic snare rolls on \"04/10/05 Sunday\" suggest the former Slayer drummer didn't attend church that day. Patton once again twists and distorts his vocals beyond recognition, so much so that on \"04/24/05 Sunday\" he sounds as mechanical as Osborne's shredding metal guitar. Still, too often the question arises of whether Fantômas wants to make musical progress or scare the shit out of you. Since The Director's Cut the band has increasingly lost touch with form and melody in their songwriting. While those elements are hardly essential in producing experimental noise metal, they're preferred over the unfocused, kitschy sampling and sound effects that have replaced them. With today's cartoons darker and more violent than ever, I'm sure cartoon music could someday sound as though influenced by Suspended Animation, but I highly doubt any rock music will. "}