{"label":" Klang Electronik, 2003","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2968/homepage_large.005671fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Farben","title":"Textstar","text":" Farben (German for 'colors') is a poetic moniker for a Berlin's Jan Jelinek, because he claims to be influenced more by painting than music. It's not hard to imagine Jelinek's music as the aural equivalent of a Rothko canvas clear geometric structure made soft and ambiguous through warm tone, blurred hue, and an exacting sense of detail. As Jelinek has made albums under his own name and as Gramm (derived from 'kilogram'), he's continued to release EPs under the name Farben, and the good folks at Klang Elektronik have been kind enough to collect some of highlights as Textstar. This ninetrack CD draws material from the EPs Farben Featuring the Dramatics, Beutone, Raw Macro, and Farben Says: Don't Fight Phrases. An expanded vinyl set called Starbox contains all the original EPs, complete with a total of six tracks not on the CD. Yet, despite this being a collection of material from previous releases, Jelinek's sonic style is so distinct and consistent that Textstar feels like a singular work. The borders are porous, but generally speaking, Jelinek uses Farben to represent his most upbeat, danceable music, the stuff that would fit nicely under the heading 'microhouse.' Most of the tracks here have a house foundation, usually a subbass kick drum deep enough to blow the speakers in Luke Skyywalker's Jeep paired with a highhat cast from a tiny scrape of static. The tracks have a structure much closer to pop music than Jelinek's later work, with variations that seem analogous to the verse/chorus/bridge/chorus template, and short melodic phrases that could be best described as riffs. Tying it all together is a supremely dubby production philosophy, where each sound is endlessly tweaked and filtered until it serves the overall design of the track. Despite the consistently barebones approach of the sound, Jelinek always keeps things interesting. He has an uncanny ability to make a handful of sounds do an enormous about of work. Rhythmic, textural and melodic elements are handled by an array of squelches, clicks, and washes, all anchored by wallrattling bass. The instruments are juggled into compositions that seem constantly in motion. Unlike an artist such as SND, Jelinek's songs are loose, wet, rubbery and unpredictable, unfolding according to some odd internal logic. Take \"Beautone.\" After an intro comprised of a slightly awkward rhythm tapped on a virtual woodblock, a commanding house beat takes over. The bass is a squelchy 303 that seems to be running in unpredictable circles around the programming, and the chords just might be the ghosts of some Hammond organ Jelinek pulled off one of his jazz records. A couple of minutes in, a sample of an easylistening wash of strings and flute punctuates the chorus, providing the track with a disorienting and humorous twist that nonetheless seems like it was designed to fit into this precise spot. Another dizzying but funky track is \"Live at the Sahara Tahoe, 1973\" (titled after the Isaac Hayes live LP). Several elements each seem to be keyed into their own separate, but complimentary rhythms: a churning synth loop and sampled cymbal lag slightly behind the crisp beat; an electroinspired breakdown of faint lasergun sounds repeats for two bars and never returns; a gorgeous orchestral sample, heavily processed and seemingly beamed in from another dimension, forms the track's emotional core. By contrast, \"Farben Says: So Much Love\" is Jelinek at his sleekest and most elegant. The deep, sensual bass hammers home an elastic riff of pure technofunk, and the microscopic highhat is like the smallest possible unit of what can be considered a sound. Between these sonic poles is an evershifting pool of warm chords, offbeat, jazzinspired rhythm accents executed on glitchy percussion, and a sexy, whispered female voice saying something about getting a haircut.Textstar is a sonic feast if you want to dissect the myriad timbres and underlying structure, but you'll probably just want to turn off your mind and dance. And that's alright. Either way, it's clear that Jelinek is one of the most inventive producers working in this field today. This compilation is a mustown. "}