{"label":" Kimchee","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/2971/homepage_large.41491227.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Geoff Farina","title":"Blobscape","text":" There are many peripheral reasons one might be compelled to buy music, besides the obvious liking something you hear and checking it out. For example, suppose your brother is in a band you'll probably want to buy his album, even if your brother is deaf, or his name is John Stamos. Or you might be one of those 'completists,' the fanatics who will not rest until they own every bside, guest appearance, and bootleg by their favorite artist. If so, then reviews probably don't affect your purchasing habits. However, the central reason most everyone else in the world buys music is neither familial relationships or fanaticism. Nope. It's this: they want to listen to it. If this reflects your experience, then pay close attention: do not buy this album.Blobscape is the third solo recording from Karate and Secret Stars principal Geoff Farina. Farina plays guitar and in late 2001, he recorded over 100 instrumental improvisations, 16 of which he released to CD. Restated colloquially, for emphasis: Blobscape is a recording of improvisational guitar noodling. Sixteen tracks' worth! Unleashing solo guitar recordings on the public puts Farina in a class with such Guitar World regulars as Michael Hedges, Tim Reynolds and Eric Johnson. All accomplished technically, no doubt, but have you ever felt compelled to buy their albums? Probably not. After all, most of the time, contemporary solo guitar lacks for nearly every desirable musical quality: melody, rhythm, interesting dynamics pretty much what your average music enthusiast is looking for, save virtuoso ability. And Farina can't even boast this. Sure, he's pretty good, but it's not like he deserves his own signature Ibanez, let alone one with sevenstrings, a vine fretboard inlay and cutaway carrying handle. To use the vernacular, Blobscape features very few killer chops, blazing riffs or hot licks (especially the licks). Let's see if we can cut Farina and his lickless noodling some slack. Perhaps creativity is his game: if it were, you'd expect the tracks to feature conceptual diversity, sonic uniqueness, and variety in playing style. Alas, they don't. As it happens, each of the sixteen cuts on Blobscape sound pedestrian and very similar. On each, you hear Farina spewing rapidly fingered arpeggios, almostbluesy hammerons, and a bunch of abstract modal shit (my catchall term for the stuff that sucked), without keeping a beat and without shifting guitar tone or tempo. Furthermore, and not surprisingly, there is almost nothing structured to grab a hold of; rarely does Farina add anything approaching a melody or a groove. Much of it sounds like warmup exercises, and the rest sounds like halfdissonant, improvised abstraction. If Farina's ideas are so brilliant, why not write them down and then work on improving them? Just an idea. This review could have consisted of three words: \"solo improvisational guitar,\" with perhaps the addition of the prefix \"bad.\" The concept speaks for itself, albeit unpersuasively. Is Geoff Farina your brother? Do you work at Kim's Music and Video, where I plan to take a trip tomorrow? If not, then I repeat, for the benefit of your pocketbook: do not buy this album. "}