{"label":" Transmit Sound","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/2974/homepage_large.19c424d9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Jay Farrar","title":"Stone, Steel and Bright Lights","text":" What can I say about Uncle Jay that a boatload of omniscient critics haven't already said? His background is common knowledge amongst gossipy indiescenti most of us decided long ago to fall in with either the redeyed, pillpopping Tweedy Nation or the temperate, buttondown Family Farrar. Fans of the former Tupelans are vehemently passionate, after all, and stylistically, speaking it seems there's little common ground between the two camps. Farrar's life after the tentatively hiatused Son Volt has been inconsistent at best, uninspired at worst, but nevertheless his muse still hangs on. For some it's been tough watching an icon produce substandard material, but neither Farrar nor his devoted, corduroyed following give a shit about popular opinion. In the wake of the tepid response given his solo outings, including 2003's intermittently impressive Terroir Blues, Farrar hit the road for a national tour, taking psychcountry balladeers Canyon as both his opener and backing band. Stone, Steel & Bright Lights is a collection of songs from that tour, recorded during several different shows over the course of September and October. Released on his own newly rechristened Transmit Sound label (formerly Act/Resist), the disc's 78minute runtime offers a liberal dose of Farrar's worddrunk Americholia especially considering that, even with pistons firing, the music never hits terminal velocity. You can't fault Farrar for knowing what he does best after all these years. He certainly has a strong grasp of what his people want obliquely evocative lyrics, saccharine melodies as exemplified by his typically rote showing on the album's first third. New tune \"Doesn't Have to Be This Way\" opens, setting the Adult Contemporary mood before ever so slightly roughing it up with some astral slide guitar from Canyon's Joe Winkle. The other new original premiered on this tour, \"6 String Belief\", reveals that Farrar is perhaps more riled by his critics than they might believe: \"Killed by consolidation/ Killed by saturation/ The underground will correct/ With reaction rebellion.\" From there, we're given vintage Farrar, boosted by the expansive wail and surge of Canyon's elegantly ringing guitars. Farrar's hearty, amber tenor is poignant and strong, and Canyon makes an excellent (if not fully fleshedout) turn behind it. Though they give muchneeded guts to mawkish Sebastopol tunes like \"Make It Alright\" and \"Vitamins\", the group shines brightest when they really dig in and stretch out. \"Cahokian\" shows Canyon hitting full stride halfway through their set, with Vin Novarra's tribal drums and Brandon Butler's lap steel shaking up the dynamics a bit. Later, Farrar allows another Terroir tune, \"Fool King's Crown\", to almost get its rocks off with some spacey keys and groaning guitar before abruptly winding it down. Not surprisingly, the album's most intriguing moments come with its covers. First appearing on Pink Floyd's Piper at the Gates of Dawn, \"Lucifer Sam\" was Syd Barrett at his most menacing, and here Canyon crunches into its twisted drama with an iron fist, doing justice to the original. To close the album, \"Lucifer Sam\" rolls right into Neil Young's anthemic \"Like a Hurricane\", which with its tender vocal delivery would be perfectly suited to Farrar were his instrumentation not so polished. As long as Farrar keeps the world in limbo over the status of Son Volt, it'll be tough to take his solo output as the final gospel. Albums like this, while often appealing to the hardcore Farrar fan (redundant, I know), don't add much to his overall cache. "}