{"label":" 3 Beads of Sweat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/299/homepage_large.c03d5bff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Art of Fighting","title":"Wires","text":" It's a nervewracking time to be in America. We're sit on the verge of war, and the rest of the world fears and loathes us. A missile just flew over my house, and though my Korean's a little rusty I think the graffiti on the warhead said, \"FROM PYONGYANG WITH LOVE.\" With all that going on, why not close your eyes and pretend to be somewhere peaceful, somewhere cutoff and faraway like Australia? With their soft, calm sound and assuringly warm vocals, Art of Fighting are determined to help you get your mellow on. This Melbournebased band helped show Stephen Malkmus around when supporting one of his Australian tours, and now, with the American release of Wires, they're doing the same for us. Their fulllength debut introduces them as a spare, dreamy slowcore band: The album is heavily reverbed but too guitarbased and concrete to be ethereal, and it's recorded with the flawless cool of a glass sculpture. The album's eleven tracks are beautifully melodic, if sometimes too homogenous. The pleasantly yearning \"Skeletons\" gives way to the faster \"Give Me Tonight\" (which weirdly resembles Leo Sayer's 70s chestnut \"When I Need You\"); from there the album ebbs and flows, as a few louder songs drift among the soft ones. Singer Ollie Browne echoes the way Thom Yorke handles his most delicate ballads (think \"Fake Plastic Trees\"); Browne expresses aching, shallowbreathing vulnerability while staying precisely on pitch. He doesn't give it much lungpower when his birthday rolls around he probably blows out three candles, four tops but he's ideal for this passively beautiful music. Bassist Peggy Frew later provides a break with her rougher, more earthen vocals on \"I Don't Keep a Record\". A few tracks stand out for having some tremors of drama: \"Moonlight\", cowritten by Browne and his Remotes bandmate Kristian Brenchley, strikingly moves from whispers to crescendos. And the album as a whole follows a softtoloudtohushed arc, all the way through to the shoegazingly extended, justshortofglorious guitars on \"Something New\", which ends the album. But while Art of Fighting create a strong mood, they never completely fill it. The songwriting, while tuneful, could be tighter, and the lyrics don't help: Two lovers want to be together but they're kept apart, for some unknown reason; or they're together but it doesn't work out, for some other reason that remains unclear. It's not that Art of Fighting need punchy or witty lyrics, but the vague words, which are sometimes too thin on nouns and adjectives, make songs like \"Akula\" all the more indistinct. For some listeners this album could be too little to take: The few gripping moments are surrounded by mellow sections that drift into the background. If the band ratchets up the writing, though, they could make an album that's just as nice but far stronger the kind that invites you to pay close attention, but that's just as rewarding if you don't. "}