{"label":" Blanco y Negro","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/2989/homepage_large.6f63acc1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Faultline","title":"Your Love Means Everything","text":" Anyone who's ever picked up a crayon understands that the process of making art is inherently painful: the spiritual and emotional drain of bleeding words/sounds/pictures can be deeply, intensely debilitating, burning you until you're red and crying, face flat on the floor, writhing and howling and acting like an asshole. Occasionally, the anguish becomes unbearable: ears are cut off, shotguns plug up mouths, liquor cabinets and syringes are sucked dry. Most of the time, though, the album is boxed and distributed, the book slips into editing, the photograph is matted and framed and the artist distraught, but alive shakes that shit off and brews a pot of coffee. Love hurts, man. Ask David Kosten: one of his lungs exploded while playing clarinet for England's National Youth Orchestra. Whether or not Kosten's chestpop happened midsolo, or whether it was during the, er, orchestral offseason is still unclear, but poetry prevails either way. Check the kid who puffs so hard that his body can't keep up with his boundless aesthetic aspirations, the gawky teenager who endures an excruciating, otherworldly burst in the name of Clarinet. Or conjure the aspiring player who is physically stripped of his ability to perform, left silent and unarmed, brokedown and quiet. The artist's internal torment going external: it's horrifyingly apropos. But onelunged David Kosten is Faultline now, and he has more than enough synthesizers, arrangements, and ideas to compensate for his anatomical lack. Faultine's heady combination of electronic avantgarde classical/dance is, thematically, about complicated as it sounds but Kosten's vision translates, aurally, as a series of threadbare, hauntingly programmed compositions, each simplistic and engrossing.  Here, Kosten ditches the esoteric vocal samples that peppered his excellent first record Closer Colder (one of which a death threat was plucked directly from his home answering machine) for shiny, celebrity pipes: Your Love Means Everything is not only an easier listen than Faultine's debut, it's also an impressive, whitewalled gallery of some of contemporary music's finest squawkers. Chris Martin, Wayne Coyne (in his first nonFlaming Lips studio appearance), Michael Stipe, and Cannibal Ox all lend their respective yelps, offering not only a mess of superstar names for those unitshifting coverstickers, but also some substantial choral chops.  Kosten uses his guest vocalists as melodic trumps, building and refining his compositions around their singing: stripped down and fragile, each of the record's six vocal tracks are bareboned bits, designed to showcase melodies and voices. Chris Martin's vocal prowess has always been Coldplay's supernatural center, and Kosten quickly establishes that grainy, loping coo as a force entirely independent of his band's earnest, sentimental melancholy. Textured, rich, and dripping with sinister, sexy longing, Martin outshines himself on \"Where Is My Boy?\", infusing each word and breath with desperate immediacy, flitting effortlessly from whisper to howl, begging and demanding, advancing and receding, his voice always fat with a throbbing, unnamed ache. Coldplay's melodic rock stew has never really provided the kind of sparse, shadowy stage that Kosten builds here, and, subsequently, Martin's nuanced murmurgonefalsetto has never quite gotten the spotlight it deserves: set against a backdrop of tinny drums, the odd acoustic strum, lots of rumbling synths, and some achingly slow backbeats, \"Where Is My Boy?\" features the kind of subtly alarming vocal performance (Martin backs himself a wild, schizophrenic chorus of spinning Chris) that can fill in your cracks, wear you out, and leave you panting and oddly violated. It's easily one of the finest vocal tracks we'll hear this year. \"The Colossal Gray Sunshine\" sees Wayne Coyne's distinctive whine a bit heartbroken, humming its sad melody over pitchy piano and brittle synths; \"Greenfields\" a guitarled twentyfifth century folksong, has Michael Stipe sounding like anyone but voice tiny and unexpectedly resonant, Stipe's normallynasal R.E.M. twangs are wholly absent here. Cannibal Ox's aggressive flow on \"Waiting for the Green Light\" is, admittedly, a little jarring, although the problem has a lot more to do with the track's placement than any missteps on his behalf. The revolvingsinger lineup constantly eats away at the coherency of this record, and Your Love Means Everything occasionally feels more like a creepy mix tape/cabaret than a unified album borne from a single artist .  The major catch is that Kosten ends up relying so heavily on his collaborators, whose human frailty so gorgeously offsets the electronics, that the instrumental tracks seem comparably vacant although they've clearly been beefed up to compensate. \"Lost Broadcast\" has some excellent distorted squeals and whippy drums, and \"Clocks\" is a ticktocking haze of crackles and swells. but it's inevitable that such overproduced offerings fall a little bit flat. Laptopclicking and keyboardmanning may have slightly lower maiming potentials than huffing your heart out into a horn, but Kosten still turns himself inside out for his music, whatever fine furnishings make it seem at times a sterile environment. On Your Love Means Everything, the blood is everywhere. "}