{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2990/homepage_large.e8b2c9a2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Faust","title":"Patchwork: 1971-2002","text":" Just as The Faust Tapes was a massive sampler for the band's Wümme period, Patchwork takes bits and pieces of Faust's music and stitches together a typically disorientating program. However, rather than focus on a particular period, the CD gathers sound from Faust's entire career (19712002), perhaps with the intention that, if enough stuff goes in the kettle, nothing recognizable will come out. Because of the sheer oddness of most of the source music, people who've heard anything by the group will have no trouble picking out phrases and textures here and there. In fact, the idea of throwing together all these disparate snippets is familiar enough for fans (see the aforementioned Tapes), so there's more than a little potential for déjà vu. Where the band excels, however, is in their ability to make even the most basic elements of rock (and their own music, whatever you want to call that) seem alien. Uwe Nettlebeck once said of Faust's music that it was supposed to sound like bootlegs, as if a passerby had tried to record all of their jams, and later faced down the daunting task of editing together all of the recorded fragments. Patchwork follows this idea, particularly in the way Hans Joachim Irmler and Staubgold head Markus Detmer have applied a messy, almost muted mix to everything: fragments from the 1990s sound as if they might have been recorded twenty years prior, and vice versa. In a way, this unifies the music, though for me, it's still difficult to pull the old songs out of their original context. Perhaps this might've been more effective as a collage/remix of unreleased material; who knows. The damning German exposition by Walter Adler, in which he curses the wasted time and money afforded Faust after their first record, opens Patchwork, but leads without pause and it turns out there are no pauses on this album into \"Stretch Over All Times\". This tune manages to fit sound from their entire lifespan into just over two minutes, though the most obvious sample comes from \"It's a Rainyday Sunshine Girl\". Similarly, \"A Seventies Event\" takes \"Krautrock\" and condenses it into a twominute express mix. Elsewhere, \"Psalter (Slow Version)\" lives up to its title, and \"Stretch Out\" offers its classic Faust Tapes bit in what sounds like Panoramic Subway Corridor Sound.Patchwork sounds best when either the editing completely deconstructs the source, or the music itself is new. \"Ayi Ayi\" begins with an unintelligible, sloweddown vocal, gets stuck in a reverb cycle, and eventually fades out on driving motorbike distortion it would have fit beautifully on their first record. \"Nervous\" is an incredible, uptempo protopunk (or retro MC5) tune, featuring a sneering monotone vocal to make Lou Reed proud, and a viscous wahwah solo. \"Zerr:aus\" is an unreleased track from the Wümme sessions that's apparently Faust's version of exotic mood music, replete with wildly distorted trumpet and primal toms (of course). The downside of collections like this is in how they emphasize just how great a band used to be. Faust's releases in the 90s were intermittently great, but often unsettlingly monolithic for a band that made a practice of exposing and putting a little flange on its manycolored warts. Patchwork argues the band hasn't lost a shred of those idiosyncrasies, but still suffers in light of its classic precedents. Though that's hardly a crime, it is a little disappointing in Faust's case. In truth, most bands couldn't get away with throwing a bunch of their old stuff into a hat and remixing it, so it's to their credit that the set is, for the most part, interesting. Patchwork makes a fine appendix for those well versed in Faust lore, but newcomers will likely suffocate under its weighty premise. "}