{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/2999/homepage_large.e40076e9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Thomas Fehlmann","title":"Visions of Blah","text":" Were it not for the brainwashing volume of The Orb's Live 93 played on endless repeat by my 'shroomchewing roomie (who once went so far as to count out the 38 versions of \"Little Fluffy Clouds\" he had), I might never have gotten into electronic music at all. While the inundation initially stayed within that orbit, every record by the KLF and FFWD, every Dr Alex Patterson appearance on a Juno Reactor disc, and every Sun Electric production by Orb conspirator Thomas Fehlmann somehow sprung me further out, into the realms of Richard D James, Stockhausen, etc. Ultimately, I moved out of the house. Thomas Fehlmann seems to have moved on as well. He's forgone the fluffy carbohydrate excesses of the past to go highprotein within the calorieburning Köln microhouse scene, and tightened his skills considerably in the supposedly young man's game of dance music. \"Streets of Blah\", the opening track on his debut fulllength for the exemplary Kompakt label, drops him into some sloshing, watery aerobic class with an elliptical crosstrainer underfoot. He's pumping at an even pace, but so hard that the machine is made to float, emitting little bass bubbles and slimming the sound down to its dub essence. Its energy is sustained throughout by slightly switching up the program: a fournote bass burble slips in with staccato stabbedkey jerks on \"Superbock\", while \"Rotenfaden\" steps it back up with more weights strapped to the kickdrum and hihat, heart pumping. Fehlmann obviously had his headphones plugged into Euro club proceedings over the years, be it Mike Ink's cardio work and the glistening rivulets of sweat on \"Du Fehlst Mir\", or the textural clicks 'n' cuts of \"Making It Whistle\". Unlike some topheavy dance workouts, hits posited just at the beginning, Fehlmann shows not only incredible staying power, but proportionate muscle balance that strengthens the disc as it goes. \"Gratis\" takes some freeweight clangs and mixes them with a hard skank strut, hardly feeling like a stationary machine. He even feels fit enough to return to some of his classic chillout near the disc's end. \"Boheme Rouge\" takes in deep breaths and stretches out, ending the session with a deep sense of satisfaction. Rejuvenated by such a workout, his insulin firmly under control, Fehlmann hardly belies his age or pedigree, not only as the first person to put out a house record in Britain (as Ready Made in 1986), but as a famed collaborator with Blake Baxter, Juan Atkins, Maurizio, and Erasure (to name just a few) over the past two decades. Screw Richard Simmons; this is all the cardiovascular activity you'll need for a while. "}