{"label":" Schematic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3003/homepage_large.76c3b592.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Dino Felipe","title":"Xanaconversex","text":" New to the Schematic neighborhood, Dino Felipe's Xanaconversex is a melodious battle between malfunctioning pizzeria arcade games and electroinfluenced beats, wandering through sonic terrain explored previously by Oval, Team Doyobi, and labelmate Richard Devine. Felipe injects hooks into his usual soup of processed noise and static, creating a sound that's at once caustic and endearing, like a nineyear old computer nerd popping balloons and kicking your slow, sorry ass at Space Invaders. To be sure, there's nothing new going on here you've heard much of Xanaconversex before, on tons of other records but that doesn't preclude Felipe putting a fresh twist on things. \"Slutt Petal (2 Crunch)\" leads off bouncing, the beat resting on a bed of static punctuated by the pleasured moans of an analog harlot. It's DAT Politics without fear of shamelessly rockin' the dancefloor, a sound that's repeated on \"Strictly Generic\", which comes out swinging its Aphex acid moves like there's no tomorrow; despite its title, it sounds refreshingly inventive, and undeniably infectious, though perhaps the 1:45 runtime has something to do with that. Felipe has taken his time with each composition, distorting, cut 'n' pasting, and decaying every kick, snare and bleep until it crunches like a baby frog underfoot. From this static mess emerges a tender streak in Felipe's sonic recipe: the slow, ponderous undulation of the album's closer, \"Sexual Boats (Guitars Float)\". Nothing if not romantic, the sparkling synth keys and muted conversations of various members of the fairer sex drift by like clouds; the feeling is not unlike awakening high and contented on a spring Sunday morning. In Felipe's case, the bedroom is stuffed floor to ceiling with floppy disc drives, and you're more than likely laying next to a gutted dot matrix printer than any stunning seductress. \"Pinky\", the fifth cut on Xanaconversex, showcases all of Felipe's strengths: opening with the rhythmic moans of another central computer siren, it rides a lounging, dubby bassline before breaking out into clean, traditional cut 'n' paste shenanigans. \"Pinky\" is a perfect balance of standard, sureshot IDM and Felipe's unique Activision sensibility. While the rest of Xanaconversex is far from groundbreaking, there's enough enthusiasm and granulated beats to keep your ass parked in front of the 2600 a long while. Consider it one to grow on. "}