{"label":" Emperor Norton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3005/homepage_large.bb419b76.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Felix Da Housecat","title":"Devin Dazzle and The Neon Fever","text":" When the first 12inch recordings appeared in 1975, few could have predicted the coming shift in pop music. \"Disco,\" of course, was right around the corner, but in the mid70s, astute dance music historians only recognized that term as part of a DJing process that involved extending records' best parts at clubs. Disco wasn't just that pounding fouronthefloor beat, but an overt strategy of retreat from pop structure and obligation to the importance of the hook. Even if party people had to wait for the chorus, they got their rocks off from the first downbeat, as DJs were no longer at the mercy of \"songs.\" So, while this meant an almost endless supply of breaks, it effectively severed ties to pop altogether. Starting in the late 70s, dance music gradually became something apart from chart pop a music judged almost exclusively by its club value. This is not to say there has been no crossover from dance to pop, or vice versa. Even before disco, DJs were playing a mixture of funk, soul and Euro pop hits, and that inclusive practice never totally vanished. However, 12inches and remixes ensured that whatever pop crossover infiltrated clubs could be manipulated to most perfectly suit the rather practical dancefloor aims. In the early 80s, when Detroit DJ Juan Atkins was getting his Kraftwerk thing on with Cybotron, and with Derek May and Kevin Saunderson practically inventing techno, dance's relationship with radio pop would seem to have been irrevocably broken or, at least crafted into an alternate pop wherein \"hits\" hardly depended on widespread cultural appeal. Chicago's Felix da Housecat (Felix Stallings, Jr.) has fashioned a career out of straddling the line between dance and pure pop one that should be clearly, obviously drawn after 30 years of gradual segregation. Yet, in the 21st century, his music is an interesting example of how little things change. After having made his bones as a 14yearold coproducer on \"Phantasy Girl\" with house pioneer DJ Pierre in 1987, releasing a string of house hits in the early 90s, forming his own label Radikal Fear and producing several acclaimed albums and mixes (not least of which were those under his Thee Maddkat Courtship and Aphrohead aliases), Felix had little trouble finding an audience in the pop remix market. Furthermore, despite a stated disdain for electroclash, he's often credited with jumpstarting the genre in the late 90s with his own synthdriven, robocentric tracks. Small surprise, then, to see mixed reaction to Devin Dazzle and the Neon Fever, which, like his last record (2001's Kittenz and Thee Glitz), revels in a refusal to settle into one particular kind of jam. Where his fellow DJs and house diehards might demand lengthy, driving tracks best suited for directing traffic on the floor, Felix has given them a concept pop record with great beats but threeminute tunes, as well as a cast of nondiva vocalists, and melodies that might actually sound better on the radio than pounding from club speakers. Devin Dazzle details the nightlife of its title character, fascinated by the neon lights but tending to associate with the wrong crowd, and runs through so many microstrains of electropop it could be a guidebook on the genre. In fact, Felix may have crafted his magazine too carefully; mainstream radio probably isn't quite ready for total immersion the cynical nostalgia of synthpop.Devin Dazzle might disappoint fans expecting more deadpan suave from Kittenz star Miss Kittin, but Felix does round up several suitable replacements. LCD Soundsystem's James Murphy does his best BowiecumSylvian take on the choruses of the harddisco platter \"What She Wants\", while Tyrone \"Visionary\" Palmer lends his absolutely spoton disaffected 80s tenor to the similarly onthemark synthpop of \"Ready 2 Wear\", \"Devin Dazzle\" and \"Neon Human\". The last tune is a particularly exceptional example of fusing house and electronic pop, sounding like Miami Vice transported to The Warehouse, Jan Hammer jamming on Prince's keyboards and Herbie Hancock's sampler. However, the girls rule the day here. Felix has put an allfemale group known as The Neon Fever to work on a series of cutting, sleek tracks that make up the bulk of the album. The single \"Rocket Ride\" uses a doubletime beat and fuzzedout Dragnet riff to power their crass plea, \"Spaced out kid, won't you take me on a rocket ride?/ Don't say no 'cause I won't be denied/ You're my boy and I'm your girl/ Take me out of this messed up world.\" This request, sounding desperate at the outset of long nights hopping from flash to flash, is amplified when the requestor deems herself a \"technological soulmate\" while sounding just as sincere as a cokedout nighthawk should. \"Everyone Is Someone in L.A.\" is admirable in its fusion of metal guitar and noteperfect 80s technopop, but downright depressing in its similarly perfectly desensitized observations of days spent shopping on Rodeo Drive and getting thrown out of the Viper Room. Yet, like all good pop songwriters, Felix manages to make potentially hazardous clichés shine like Benzes with his ace arrangements and efficient hooks. In its stubborn refusal to attempt to appeal to too many people at once, Devin Dazzle succeeds where many straight pop albums fail. This album may come straight out of a culture obsessed with whitelabel pressings and European electronic dance music, but there's an unmistakable pop sheen that arguably predates electro altogether; Felix da Housecat appears to have approached this record in the same manner as other pop craftsmen like Stephen Merritt or Elvis Costello might: as a tireless effort to mine substyles and hooks that populate his detailoriented visions of the perfect song. While that might translate into a record that fails to sit totally comfortably in either the pop or dance section of the CD shop, it's hardly lacking in compositional substance or hightoned flash. "}