{"label":" Headz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13409/homepage_large.7b46d198.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Fennesz","title":"Live in Japan","text":" David Berman tosses off an image in his poem \"The New Idea\" that's been stuck in my head: \"Beauty blew a fuse.\" Pulled from the context of the poem, this line gets me thinking about things like Icarus flying too close to the sun or steeldriving man John Henry pounding his way through that mountain to his death. It's a line about power, reach, and limitation. I read Berman's words and imagine an aesthetic experience as an electrical impulse carrying so much energy that somewhere, a breaker is tripped, natural limits are exceeded, destruction ensues, and the resulting jumble shows the opposing forces of, well, life. If I had to describe the music Christian Fennesz is making now with a single line, I could do worse than \"the sound of beauty blowing a fuse.\" He started off with other goals. Early Fennesz wound a path through electronic abstraction and then rounded a curve around the time of the Plays single that led to his 2001 release Endless Summer. That record was a breakthrough that pointed the way toward a new fusion of guitar melody processed with the limitless textured noise made available via computer. Listening on the bus home from work today, Endless Summer sounded even more pop than I remember; once again I was humming the title track, which is actually based on some pretty effective changes. I'm told that, on his hard drive, Fennesz has a version of his recording of \"Don't Talk (Put Your Head on My Shoulder)\" with Brian Wilson's vocals added on top; someone should write a vocal song to lay over \"Endless Summer\".Live in Japan documents a single show recorded in February, and it contains several chopped and processed segments of Endless Summer, but Fennesz does a lot more here than just cue tracks. Bits of Plus Forty Seven Degrees 56' 37\" Minus Sixteen Degrees 51' 08\" stream past, there's a remix in there along with some scattered Endless Summer quotes, but Live in Japan is Fennesz in freeform mode, floating from one idea the next and finding the common core of energy in his varied approaches. You really could chart the emotional pitch of this set on a graph, as it begins in the middle, climbs to an early, intense peak, and slopes down for some quiet contemplation before starting for another crest. The word \"symphonic\" comes to mind. Japanese label Headz is billing this particular performance as one of the greatest laptop shows of all time. I am not qualified to address that hyperbole, but I can say that Live in Japan is a very good Fennesz album regardless of how and where it was recorded. Though the prettier aspects of Fennesz's sound appear with some regularity, Live in Japan generally leans toward noisier territory. It's a thick, heavy mix, and there always seem to be spikes of static bouncing against the floating organ chords and acoustic guitar picking. Fennesz has a way of teasing out unexpected sounds from his gear and creating unusual emotional effects. About 2/3 of the way through his set, he constructs a mountain of drone that sounds like the orchestral sweep of Sigur Rós fused with Merzbow, and then, in the shadow of this monolith, he inserts a plucked guitar processed to sound like a harpsichord, imparting an odd medieval quality that feels completely unplugged from time. That this towering and heroic mass slowly decays into the comparatively stark and desolate \"Codeine\", his remix of a track by Ekkehard Ehlers and Stephen Mathieu, is a testament to Fennesz's emotional reach. He wisely concludes his set on this high note and breaks for a moment before plugging back in and working noisier bits of Endless Summer back into an encore. Fennesz's approach with previous records has been to explore a small number of discrete sound ideas in each track and then assemble the varied results into an album. A lot of the fun of Live in Japan comes from hearing how he moves from one sequence into something completely different (surely, time spent improvising as part of FennO'Berg was an influence here). Live in Japan is mastered as one 45minute track, and though I've never been crazy about this kind of listener coercion (first foisted upon the world with Prince's Lovesexy), it has forced me to consider Fennesz's set as a whole. This record is a finely rendered laptop suite by a master of dynamics and pacing. There are many people making similar music on their laptops at this moment, but very few are as accomplished as Christian Fennesz. "}