{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3022/homepage_large.4f975625.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Get Rich or Die Tryin' OST","text":" It's difficult to remember now, but there was a moment in late 2002 when 50 Cent seemed like exactly what rap needed. Here was a guy who'd come out of nowhere with an endlessly hypnotic slurpy singsong flow spitting unbelievably hard, violent street shit and naming names. He'd put the entire rap world on blast in \"How to Rob an Industry Nigga\", he had impeccable mixtape credentials, and he already carried himself like a star. He received the backing of Dr. Dre and Eminem, and there was nothing to stop him from just destroying wack candy rappers like Ja Rule and running wild all over the industry. And then, of course, he became the biggest rap star on the planet. He endorsed video games and vitamin water and doorags. He started meaningless feuds for no good reason. Earlier this year, he released The Massacre, an album bloated with maddeningly halfassed assholerap that will probably end up being the biggestselling record of 2005.And now he's made a movie. Get Rich or Die Tryin' is 50's attempt to make his own 8 Mile, right down to the legendbuilding loosely autobiographical story, respectably middlebrow director, and grainy verite cinematography. We'll know next week whether it's as boring as 8 Mile. But 50's done something surprising with the Get Rich soundtrack. If the movie is his respectability move, the soundtrack is a direct antipop move, a record full of hard, grim, liquid NYC streetrap woozy flanged guitars and swollen horns and nonchalant bloodlust. All the rappers here come from 50's GUnit camp, and most of the beats come from noname producers like K.O. and BMoney. And the oddly coesive result is the best GUnit album since Young Buck's Straight Outta Ca$hville. There are sexraps and partyraps here, but the R&B elements are played down to the point where they sound just like the gangsta tracks, all bleary windswept glistening soul samples, not a \"Candy Shop\" in sight. And sometimes, as with the monstrous foghorn tuba stomp on \"I'll Whup Ya Head\" and the magnetic descending Spanish guitar on \"You Already Know\", the tracks find an irresistibly hazy widescreen throb.Maybe the experience of playing his younger self onscreen has helped 50 recapture some of the hunger he had a couple of years ago. Throughout the album, 50 keeps all the confidence he had on The Massacre but little of the arrogance. His murdertalk threats have a real bite: \"Let's ride around, find a nigga stuntin' on Front Street/ With the shines on, niggas be lookin' like lunchmeat.\" And his boasts have a nonchalant irreverence: \"If I wore a suit everyday like JayZ/ Niggas would think I bumped my fuckin' head and went crazy.\" Occasionally he lapses into hegemonic selfparody (\"I see something special when I look in ya eyes/ With ya legs way back, I say this pussy is mine\"), but for once that's the exception.Nearly all of 50's backup guys play their roles to perfection. Lloyd Banks returns to his mini50 tauntingly mannered mumbleflow. Young Buck steals a couple of tracks with his hardasfuck predatory drawl. M.O.P. makes a dependably bananas gutterstomp appearance on \"When Death Becomes You\", nicely offset by 50's slinky hook and the song's lush, dramatic production. Mase, probably 50's biggest influence as a rapper, gives a tantalizing glimpse of what might've happened if he'd never abandoned streetrap. Even the crew's two worst rappers, Tony Yayo and Spider Loc, prove effective in small doses, their flaws camouflaged by excellent production and better rappers. Only the Mobb Deep guys, Havoc especially, get lost, their deadeyed nihilism not making the transition to the album's cinematic hardness. Not everyone can do this moviethug thing.  "}