{"label":" TwentyThree","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3030/homepage_large.8def87aa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Fila Brazillia","title":"Jump Leeds","text":" Like gravity, UK downtempo outfit Fila Brazillia is utterly dependable. I doubt that anyone could seriously say that any of their nine albums is a disappointment. Sure, no release is without minor slipups, but at least the duo of Steve Cobb and Dave McSherry have never released a total wipeout like Drukqs.Jump Leeds has a few more slipups than its immediate predecessor, A Touch of Cloth, but I'd like to think they result from the addition of a vocalist (Steve Edwards of Presence) rather than being an indication of pending obsolescence. A Touch of Cloth really was the epitome of downtempo. Rather than being an assemblage of quirky samples like Lemon Jelly's or Bent's output, Fila Brazillia's eighth album was a sophisticated soundtrack to a bizarre, yet meticulously plotted porno salivated over by hipsters who surely have a take on Cassavetes. It takes some commitment to get into a Fila Brazillia album Cobb and McSherry don't give up their goodies on a first date. During the many hours I've spent digesting their albums I've discovered all manner of concealed wit, harmonic inventions, and melodic whims. Jump Leeds differs slightly, however. The band have buried all these wonderful things and scattered the lownutrient topsoil of Edwards' R&B; crooning all over them. As he proved on Presence's All Systems Gone album, Edwards possesses exactly the right voice for that ironyfree class of deep house that acts as a rallying call for cementedtothesofa connoisseurs. Edwards can warble and exercise his vibrato technique during poignant bits and can belt out the hallelujahs as forcefully as any fourhundredpound gospel diva. But there are definite drawbacks to setting such booming skills amid Fila Brazillia's intricate downtempo. To the band's credit, they've limited Edwards to four tracks. As if a hangover from the stainedglass artwork of A Touch of Class, Jump Leeds begins with a church organ stating the compelling theme of the opening track, \"Bumblehaun.\" But it doesn't stay ecclesiastical for very long. The track transforms into an exceptional parody of 80's club funk, an infectious groove those Euroclash retrofuturists would gladly pawn their Commodore 64's for. Cobb and McSherry really show off during \"Bumblehaun\" and on first listen it staggers belief that they haven't used up all their creative juices in the opening track. But the duo are merely getting started, as \"Motown Coppers\" demonstrates. Out of a buzzy analog haze, a stomping bassline gathers up all the lost children and, in a glorious series of chimes and welcoming blips, sends them out into a magical world of candy cane funk. With a cut 'n' pasted hollerin' blues man, \"Spill the Beans\" initially sounds like a bid for some of Moby's cash. After a melodic cockrock guitar break, Edwards moves up to the mic to deliver his hammytender lyrics about telling the truth and feeling a whole better for the disclosure. \"DNA\" brings the mood down to makeout levels with a wispy guitar figure and a sample of Dead Can Dance's \"The Snake and The Moon.\" \"DNA\" harks back to the dreamy daze of the Grid's classic \"Floatation\" and BBG's \"Snappiness.\" Edwards returns for \"We Build Arks\" and, along with a pounding bass probe, he unpacks his most forceful falsetto as he warbles about Morlocks and how \"Goats run/Goats walk/But heroes ride.\" Cobby and McSherry match Edwards' phantasmagoric twaddle with a wahwahed clavinet and plenty of righteous menace. \"Percival Quintaine\" adapts the Edge's appeggiated guitar line from \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" and reworks it for a Starsky and Hutch car chase through Huggy Bear's Harlem. \"Nightfall\" returns to the surreal dreamscape of \"We Build Arks\" but in this slumber Edwards can \"hear colours all around the world\" and see \"calcium from your behind.\" Perhaps the band should have run this song by a shrink first? Though Edwards' nocturnal visions are nigh on disturbing, they're nothing in comparison with the horrendous gaffe that concludes and mars Jump Leeds. \"The Green Green Grass of Homegrown\" is a folksy ode to the herb that panders shamelessly to the fetishistic High Times crowd. This is the type of gauche mishap I expect from artists who cut and paste twee thrift store samples into their Fruity Loops song creation software, not from an exceptionally talented duo whose love of music and enthusiasm for playing is, for me, as irrefutable as Newton's great discovery. "}