{"label":" Amoebic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3031/homepage_large.dfdb10c3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Filament","title":"29092000","text":" I was talking with a friend of mine today about the fear of completely new music. I made the notterriblydeep insight that one of the reasons some people might not like a lot of the noisier experimental music was because it was intimidating. In reality, I was describing my own experiences regarding some of the music I now take for granted as standard 'noise.' I doubt that most people are scared of this stuff. \"They're afraid of our music\" is a standard copout for an artist to excuse the fact nobody is latching onto his or her sound, though just as often it's a matter of the music simply not appealing to listeners' tastes. Not that anyone cowers in a corner with a watchful eye on their stereo, but maybe there's sometimes an aspect of fear that goes along with music that doesn't immediately relate to something with which we're already familiar. The example I used in the conversation was when I heard the selftitled Clash album in high school. It was so aggressive, furious and assured. There was nowhere for me to breathe, and I had never heard anything that raged with the kind of brute force and focused sense of purpose that record seemed to possess. It wasn't until six months later, when I revisited the record, that I was able to listen without being put off by the sheer intensity of it. I could use the same scenario to describe my first encounters with Boredoms, John Zorn and the music on this CD. In each case, there was the initial shock and subtle intimidation, an extended separation, and then a return when my senses had almost caught up with the experience. Strange that fear would lead to discovery. Filament is an extreme project, and one that I'm not sure what to make of yet. Comprised of fulltime experimentalists Otomo Yoshihide and Sachiko M., the duo makes minimalist noise via sampler, turntable and sine wave. Both of these musicians have been involved with boisterous 'Japanoise' (most notably with Ground Zero, and solo), and the usual fare of electronic mayhem and jazzcore extremities expected from experimentalists out of Tokyo in the last decade or so. What hasn't been expected is their gradual shift from destructive cacophony to lengthy, highpitched sequences. They still go for your ears, but with a laser beam instead of a club. Otomo and Sachiko (who work in similar, if more percussive, realms with I.S.O.) describe Filament as a project wherein sound is a massive texture, which they knead together from the dough of their very minimal equipment. Okay, you want to know what it sounds like? Leave your computer on for about a week, until it starts humming from exhaustion, and then place a mic up to the hard drive. Turn your amp up to 10, and then subject yourself to the feedback and computer hum for about half an hour. Trust me, you won't have to strain to hear it. The devastating frequencies will more likely cause your dogs to go berserk, and yourself to either develop a terrible migraine, or kneel in submission. If you listen in a bit, there are variations at work. Otomo's sampler interrupts the pure resonance of the sine wave, ofter producing the effect of a very light generator hum, or even glitchy tickbeats just dox92t expect anything close to rhythm. Also, since 29092000 (Filament's third release) is a document of a concert hall performance, there is an omnipresent room ambience. This may not seem like much, but if live sine wave and sampler effects is the Spartan music of the future, then purely studiobased sine waves is the music of digital hell. And so, the question becomes: is this interesting new music, or a physically painful display of artists looking for the next plateau of extreme noise? The answer may very well reside in your threshold for pain not to mention your ideas about what actually constitutes music. Filament is but one of several current electronic outfits all over the world who are already very far away from both relatively experimental IDM and established, academic electroacoustic music. They certainly aren't for anyone impatient or the slightest bit wary of experimental electronic music. If that doesn't scare you away, they could be onto something. "}