{"label":" Leaf","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/305/homepage_large.2f9366f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Asa-Chang & Junray","title":"Tsu Gi Ne Pu","text":" Ichi, ni, san, yon, go, rok, nana, hach, kyu, ju, juich, juni, ichi, ni, san, yon, go, rok, nana, hach, kyu, ju, juich, juni, ichi, ni, san, yon, go, rok, nana, hach, kyu, ju, juich, juni, ichi, ni, san, yon, go, rok, nana, hach, kyu, ju, juich, juni, ichi, ni, san, yon, go, rok, nana, hach, kyu, ju, juich, juni, ichi, ni, san, yon, go, rok, nana, hach, kyu, ju, juich, juni. This mantra, counting to twelve in Japanese, begins to resemble the cyclic routine of someone suffering from OCD after awhile. It's actually very easy to say, and even if it sounds like gibberish to other people, all the better to spin your own mental wheels. Repeat it and start over, and try to see how many times you can do this without missing a number or making a mistake. If you do, start over again. Try to do all of this in a steady rhythm, and with a couple of friends, make a chorus of counting. Then, try to start at the same time but all in different tempos keep your own rhythm while the others go off on their own, and then all meet up again on \"ichi.\" If you mess up, start over again. And again. Then, once more. In music, the only culture I know of that employs such complex counting exercises in their traditional music is from India. Philip Glass spoke of studying Indian music before creating his equally mathematical minimalist pieces of the early 70s. Terry Riley also studied Indian classical music, as did La Monte Young. These composers are united by an interest in the disciplined refinement of Indian music, and all applied it to their own idiosyncratic music. Likewise, AsaChang & Junray reference Indian music in the process of creating music that is otherwise quite unique. In their case, the idea of rhythm and meter, and the extended development of beat exercises disguised as melodies, seems related to Indian raga. On \"Xylophone\", they even bring in sitars to compliment the already dominant tabla and bongo. The minialbum Tsu Gi Ne Pu (named for an old Japanese poem) is the fourth release by this duo, and even more than last year's compilation Jun Ray Song Chang, emphasizes how rhythm dominates their music. This almost maddening focus on rhythm dominates every tune on the record, even when, on the surface, it appears that they took a simpler, more songoriented approach. On \"Kaikyo\", trumpet and trombone played with subtle apprehension perform a tune that reminds me of the closing credits to a an old Spaghetti Western. However, the actual melody is less brassy fanfare than merely the vocalization of what would otherwise be a drum part, right down to the accented, triplet figures and unison doubling of AsaChang's percussion. As it unfolds, the duo plays more aggressively, picks up some speed, and builds upon the simple figures they began with, until they arrive at a onenote endgame. They've gone through every conceivable combination of beats, and end the tune on a sampled crashing of waves. The song is the perfect depiction of obsessive mathematical development (or feverish logic), and will probably annoy as many people as it entertains. \"Kutsu #3\" begins innocently enough with a trumpet and accordion duet, neither of which are playing in any particular rhythm. After their short statement, and a few rising sine tones carried over from the previous album, everything disappears. For better than 10 minutes, there are no sounds at all, until a female narrator begins the countdown reference the opened this review. She counts to twelve, each number representing one note in a chromatic scale, and AsaChang and UZhaan join in. The never sing the same numbers at the same time, except when meeting up on the first one, instead each enunciating a different pattern with clockwork perfection. For anyone into polyrhythmic fugue, this will doubtlessly be fascinating though like most of AsaChang and Junray's music, it could have an equally maddening effect on others. I'm a little confused as to why the band needed to put that extended moment of silence in there (especially as it takes up about a fourth of the already brief album's runtime), but if a little goes a long way, these two are masters of exotic minimalism. It's going to be interesting to see where they go next; Tsu Gi Ne Pu gives me the feeling it might very well be into uncharted (and impenetrable) rhythmic waters. Like Glass and Riley, they've managed to strike a balance between the obsessive and the charming, and it's still a pretty interesting, if occasionally detached sound. "}