{"label":" Headhunter / Cargo","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3038/homepage_large.314f3df9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Firebird Band","title":"The Drive EP","text":" Forget this fact: Firebird Band frontman Chris Broach was once the singer/guitarist for defunct emo mathrockers Braid. The Firebird Band sound nothing like Broach's old band, so fans of Braid might as well approach his new project as something entirely separate. Gone are the urgent, overwrought vocals and raging guitars, replaced instead by drunkenly burbling synths and lethargic tempos. It's postpunk diluted into an ambient soup, and quite frankly, it's incredibly unengaging. The EP opens with \"Summertime Boyfriend,\" a song lost in a primordial stew of programmed nonbeats, picksliding guitars and reverb. Broach's voice calls out through the haze, muffled by processing and struggling to place a melody on lyrics that aren't really about anything. As it turns out, this is merely the intro to the title track, and after about two minutes, the chorus to \"The Drive\" kicks in, buoyed by an actual backbeat and a little tambourine. The refrain of \"San Francisco, California to LA, CA, USA\" is marginally catchy, but it struggles to breathe under the surface of the band and the muddy production of emo engineer Wendy Schneider. If it were allowed to open up and really let loose, this song could be great. Instead, it dies faster than Pauly Shore's film career, smothered under the merciless pillow of bad mixing. The real tragedy of this is that the band seems to have some really decent ideas hiding in these formless almostsongs. The drummer could be pounding your ass into submission with his offbeat groove in \"Distance,\" but instead it sounds like he's down the hall practicing. Broach's voice is similarly drowned in the mix, and it's a shame, because the guy can really sing. Confession time: the Firebird Band have a fulllength album out called The Setting Sun and Its Satellites, which I haven't heard. I can only wonder if it sounds as positively bad as this EP does. If I harp on how rotten the production is, it's because I have few qualms with the music, outside of the first track, which is just aimless. \"The Runway\" is the best song here, possessing an actual form, a good melody, some ace drumming and lots of cool ambient flourishes in the background. But, of course, the mix is all wrong. So, to get an idea of what this sounds like, grab your nearest Braid CD and throw it in your player. Next, press play and wrap your speakers in several blankets. Then, shove the speakers in a drawer and close it. Stand across the room and listen to the result. Imagining it playing at halfspeed with some electronics burbling around it. You'll get a pretty good idea of just what you're dealing with here.The Drive winds down with the quasiinstrumental \"Wish,\" which is populated by manipulated vocals, fluttering synths and some programmed percussion. It's tough to latch onto anything, though, because all of the elements are once again flung like chaff into a vacuum of production ideas, tightly played, but strangely disjointed from each other. With some work, the Firebird Band could be making really great albums there's certainly no shortage of talent or ideas present in the band. Unfortunately, this EP lacks the punch to box me into recommending them. Do not forget this fact: passable music and poor production make for bad listening. "}