{"label":" Leaf","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/306/homepage_large.05644ab3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Asa-Chang & Junray","title":"Jun Ray Song Chang","text":" Melody, harmony and rhythm: at one point, these were three very different (and equally necessary) elements needed to construct music. In the Western World, you'd have to go back a ways to outrun this holy trinity, and even then when Chant and minstrels were all the rage it was only harmony that lacked the sophistication to warrant equal billing on the musical marquee. Several centuries later, the tables appear to have tilted slightly, as melody and rhythm conspire to overthrow harmony. Some might say we're experiencing a musical revolution. And we are, sort of. Truthfully, the marriage of rhythm and melody is an illusion: every melody features rhythm anyway, and always has. In the last 50 years or so, however, music with those \"crazy\" rhythms has been wreaking havoc on our youth in a way no motet or chanson ever did. I could even show all my cards here, and just jump into hiphop, where melody and rhythm have been in cahoots so long that, from a distance, it's hard to tell which is even running the show. It's not that either one of these elements is more dominant than the other, but that in the age of beats, riffs and rhymes, it's often unclear what role a particular element is playing. Confused? AsaChang (originally Koichi Asakura) & Junray (Japanese for \"pilgrimage\") cut my muddy thesis to the chase: their \"Hana\" features a clear, hopelessly melancholy string arrangement very much like what Björk should have been opting for over Hollywood orchestras but the most distinctive part of the song is its drastically straightforward marriage of melody and rhythm. AsaChang's Indonesian bongo (which sounds remarkably like an Indian tabla) plays in unison to a male/female duet, effectively destroying any expectation for \"groove\", yet forming what would be an offkilter ballad into a futuristic, exotic percussion piece, thanks especially to the band's secret weapons: soft, ascending sine tones. Although technically speaking, all the old building blocks are intact, the harmony is in tune with nothing, the melody has no notes, and the rhythm is present in name only, happy to exist as a melodybyproxy. AsaChang & Junray have been performing since 1998, and Jun Ray Song Chang is their first release outside of Japan. It's a compilation of their first two Japanese releases, and is fortunately interesting on more than just technical grounds. The sounds here are unexpectedly diverse (with a band featuring only two percussionists and a programmer, that's a major feat), especially given that each song appears to have been an exercise in making due with only the barest necessities. As mentioned, the melodies tend to be married to the percussion, and while the \"Junreitronics\" (their very own processing device) apply a small amount of electronic fuckery to the mix, most of this stuff sounds like a natural hybrid of exotic percussion and fauxtrad jungle folk, by way of Jakarta, India and Japan. Their sound isn't easily pigeonholed. Junray makes use of member UZhaan's Calcutta tabla studies on \"Nigatsu\", as again, melody and rhythm are mirror images of each other. The opening songspeak soliloquy by AsaChang is actually accompanied by a distant rainstorm, and the simple, looped guitar figure acts more as a rhythmic base than as a harmonic center. AsaChang runs through several variations on a single rhythm, and when the tabla enters, the entire piece is transformed into a treatise on the roles of rhythm in modern popular music. Yet, in a way, like much of the music on this CD, the arrangements are so sparse that it seems barely there at all. \"Kutsu #2\" features only a light electronic tapping and simple clarinet duo over its oneminute duration, while the comparatively epic \"Jippun\" offers little more to flesh out its subliminally addictive strains. This song cuts flute lines, rising sine waves, jumpy synth beeps and rapidfire tabla to simulate a minimalist, thoroughly modern raga. But AsaChang & Junray's way of casting ancient instruments in new lights is probably the coolest thing about their music. Where something like \"Jippun\" or the Chinese festival music of \"GooGungGung\" (apparently, titles get the same minimal treatment) might sound academic or worse, smugly conservative coming from some Society of Indigenous Music Preservation, here they sound as vital as any modern electronic music, and in many cases, more so. Some of this is indeed due to the way they play with the basic elements in their music, though ultimately, rhythm is at the heart of everything on the album. Beyond theoretical questions, Jun Ray Song Chang poses more pressing ones: if creating new electronic music can sound this fun, why doesn't everyone do it? "}