{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3048/homepage_large.1154fc73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Fischerspooner","title":"Odyssey","text":" Why exactly was I supposed to hate Fischerspooner again? They dress like spangley futuristic mime robots, which I suppose is sort of annoying, but that really doesn't have anything to do with their music. They bankrupted their record label and waited way too long to put their first album out, but again, all that stuff is strictly extramusical. They actively and knowingly marketed themselves as electroclash, but Fischerspooner has much more in common musically with the Scissor Sisters than Miss Kittin or A.R.E. Weapons. They've never managed to make anything as great as their first single, but then \"Emerge\" was such a dizzy, searing monster jam that it'd be hopeless to hold any group to that standard forever. So the only real reason I can think of to hate Fisherspooner is the vwerdlevwerdlevwerdle oscillating synthbass sound they use on every single song. This can grow tired after an entire album, but it's a good, malleable sound, as effective on breathy, luxuriant opiumdisco tunes like \"A Cloud\" as on swooping, lazy filterFleetwoodMac tracks like \"Happy\". And plus you can ratchet up the pitch a bunch on the chorus and the song will automatically sounds way more intense. On Odyssey, the group piles on huge, clattering drums, mournful house pianos, deliriously sleazy strutting whitefunk guitars. The album's production is clean enough to sterilize needles; everything has a lavish, glossy cocaine sheen. The group has recruited help from popmusic pros like Mirwais (who produced Madonna's \"Music\", which is fucking awesome) and Linda Perry (who wrote Pink's \"Get This Party Started\", which is fucking awesome). They got the now deceased Susan Sontag to write the lyrics for \"We Need a War\", which is nice, but it's not like anyone ever listens to the lyrics on Fischerspooner songs.Odyssey is Fischerspooner's attempt at kicking and screaming their way out of punchline hell, so it's a bit of a surprise how good everything sounds. The deluxe, swirley disco tracks that begin the album slide nicely into the brittle newwave funk and imperiously sighed synthed ballads. All of this builds beautifully to the group's cover of the Boredoms' smeary psychedelic symphony \"Circle\". It's something of a shock hearing the Boredoms' messy drumcircle monolith translated through Fischerspooner's glammy synths, but the group approaches the song with the majestic fervor it demands, and the result is a truly gorgeous pileup.Odyssey isn't a great album: Many of the vocal hooks are weak and underfed, the group never finds the widescreen abandon of \"Emerge\", and there's that synth burble on every song. But the group has managed to come up with an appealingly grand, ridiculous epic, more than anyone could reasonably expect from these forgotten freaks. So find some other band to hate. May I suggest Kings of Leon? "}