{"label":" Omnibus","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3053/homepage_large.1a8c547d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Flake Music","title":"When You Land Here, It's Time to Return","text":" Awww, bands are so cute in their impressionable stage. I'm not being condescending, I swear they really are cute; any of us who've picked up a Gibson knockoff were probably musical Silly Putty at one point or another. As a peace offering to illustrate my complete lack of condescension, I fully disclose that my high school band would frequently cover Pavement, AC/DC, and Phish. You can only imagine the flipperbaby monstrosities that were our original songs (here's a taste: one was called \"Jabberwocky\"). Of course, not too many of us had teenage bands that metamorphosed into a topoftheline pop act like The Shins, so we haven't had to suffer the overproudMom embarrassment of having these early days publicly released. Omnibus Records is happy to play that evil role, however, rereleasing the fulllength effort by Flake Music, an early incarnation of The Shins. When You Land Here, It's Time to Return is far from an amateur souvenir of Battle of the Bandswon studio time, but at times it unflinchingly illustrates a group that wears its influences on its sleeve like a stock car wears its sponsors. \"Burnt Valve\" is the most obvious culprit, a song so enthralled with There's Nothing Wrong with Love (check out the Dugish nasal \"yeaahhhhhh\" and extended midfi jamout) that it makes Flake Music sound like those weirdos that sit in the art museum all day, drawing exact replicas of famous portraits. But hell, it's such a believable, lovable forgery, only a tyrannical dictator could hate it; Martsch himself would probably be fooled into thinking he wrote it. And if recorded sound is the canvas art of the future, it's gonna take a pretty sharp team of curators to separate it from a precious BTS original. Later in the program, other giants of mid90s indie rock serve as occasional muse to Flake Music on \"Structo\" it's Weezer; on \"The Shins\" (yes, they had a song called The Shins), it's Guided by Voices. So the record would serve nicely as an onthecheap retro capsule soundtrack, should I ever make a movie of my high school years. And given the 1997 original bornon date of the album, and the considerable zest with which each tribute is performed, the affair is extremely forgivable. This is, after all, the kind of bedroom music Pitchfork was conceived to back in the day, so don't mind us if we feel a wee bit nostalgic. Most of the floundering here is due to frontman James Mercer still hunting for a comfortable voice. Ironically, opening track \"Spanway Hits\" captures much of The Shins' formula right off the bat, Mercer straining for the upper registers and the band all perky New Mexico sunshine. It's as clear to the listener as it apparently was to the band that \"Spanway Hits\", and the other crystal ball moment, \"Deluca\", marked the correct path for he and his mates to travel, even if neither tune approaches the lowest rung of Oh, Inverted World! That's not to say that fervent Shinlickers won't love the dickens out of Flake Music, and that less committed Mercerites won't find something to love in its thirtyminute runtime. I might poke a bit of fun at the album's indieclassic sponge act, but playahatas can't touch the writer of a diamond like \"New Slang\", a song so good I didn't even hold its McDonald's cooption against it, instead just submitting to the subconscious urge to eat french fries whenever it played. While the future of The Shins is highly cloudy, most indiepop bands tending to be onealbumstand types preying upon our ears, it's gratifying to know that their pubertal stage was far from painfully awkward. "}