{"label":" Westbound","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3062/homepage_large.cd361e93.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Funkadelic","title":"Motor City Madness: The Ultimate Funkadelic Compilation","text":" If you will suck my soul, I will lick your funky emotions. Let me play with them, for nothing is good unless you play with it. Let me slide a yard of tongue down your throat. Can you feel it, girl? It's called Funkadelic music. If you try to sit on air, you're gonna fall, I bet you. And man, I was in a place called Keeprunning, Mississippi onetime, and I heard something on my way. Sounded a little something like raw funk to me, so I slowed down and took a listen. And this is all I could hear: Soul is a ham hock in your cornflakes and a ring around your bathtub. Soul is chitlins foo young and a joint rolled in toilet paper. Soul is you, big mama. Freedom is free of the need to be free, so free your mind, and your ass will follow: The kingdom of heaven is within. The pusher push, the fixer fix the judge acquits and the junkie leads his life for the funky dollar bill. Said you blow my mind, you sure look fine. You make the heart beat sweeter than the honey that replaced the rain since I met you. Do you feel the fire in your veins? I can't free my mind. I'm so mixed up, so mixed up. What time is it? Friday night, August 14? Hey pussycat, come and see. You are as free as you want to be. Mother Earth is pregnant for the third time, for y'all have knocked her up. I was not offended. I read an old quotation in a book just yesterday that said, \"Gonna reap just what you sow.\" Can you get to that? You can shake it to the east, shake it to the west but GOOD GOD HIT IT AND QUIT IT. And if in our tears we don't learn to share with our brothers, you know that hate is gonna keep on multiplying. Your maggot brain, your grins and frowns: Super Stupid you're here today and the winner is fear. More power to the people. More pussy to the people. And I want to know if it's good to you, baby. Eeny, meeny, miney mo, catch a junkie by the toe. If he hollers, let him go. If he don't, do the loose booty. Snorting his New York dope, went into a nod. Little Miss Muffet sat on her tuffet snorting some THC. Along came a spider, slid down beside her and said, \"What's in the bag, bitch?\" Skin it back and monkey it. I don't know but I've been told that dog's a man best friend. And I call my baby pussy, spell it PUSSY. And the animal instinct in me makes me want to defend me. It makes me want to live when it's time to die. I believe in god. She's the devil, and I like it. When she comes, I'll be there to meet her. Everybody is going to make it this time. Everybody is going to make it this time. Ain't you deep? Give us the strength to understand ourselves, for we are mysterious animals, man. We've seen it hard and kind of rough, but always with a smile. I can hear my mother call. Father, please don't judge me too strong. I meant no wrong. My sexy jones was below sea level and the hornies occupied my being. What's wrong with making her call me \"daddy?\" I said, \"All looks are not alike and all holes are not a crack.\" She said, \"No compute.\" But I could tell she was interested. Everybody is gonna come play in the nappy dugout this time, so please don't judge me too strong. Lord knows I meant no wrong. Who is this bitch? Thumbing her way to Savannah, she's been cooped up too long. She promised to do all kind of freaky things to me. I said, \"Be my dog, and I will be your tree and you can pee on me.\" They call it mental masturbation. I want to help you use what you got. Even if you don't dig it, it don't mean it's not the thing to do. If you don't feel it right now, that don't mean someday it'll turn you out. You really shouldn't ought to fight it. Reality can be a stiff sometimes. Think right, and you can fly. Shit, goddamn, GET OFF YOUR ASS AND JAM! Remember, the kingdom of heaven is within. Pleasure's the motivation for the human race. Everything starts and ends with sex and appeal. There's a tidal wave of mysticism surging through our jetage generation, and it's designed to take us to the sky. Everybody's funking and don't know how; sitting in the woods on a log, finger on the trigger. If you ain't gonna get it on, take your dead ass home. Can you relate to what we're programmed to do? Can you see what's going down in you? Wouldn't you rather fly than die? Good god. Look out, here I come, right back where I started from: If you will suck my soul, I will lick your funky emotions, and I just want to know if it's good to you. "}