{"label":" Parasol","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/30/homepage_large.4b03d0b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Action","title":"Rolled Gold","text":" If The Action were so great, why haven't you heard of them? If only it were that simple. Famed Beatles producer George Martin signed this British mod outfit to his AIR Productions in the mid60s and helped them produce a few psychpop singles (including 1967's \"Shadows and Reflections\", featured on the Nuggets II box) to no popular avail. Their sound was more refined than The Small Faces, punchier than The Zombies, yet they were hardly wouldbe contenders. The Action's failure to chart a single during their brief existence is one of the mystifying anticlimaxes in rock history, as most of their songs have aged remarkably well. The band formed in the early 60s as The Boys, and cut one single for Pye before changing their name to The Action. The principal players were vocalist Reg King (possessing a powerful, debonair croon), guitarists Alan King and Pete Watson (later replaced by Martin Stone), bassist Mike Evans, and drummer Roger Powell (a tighter, funkier Ringoesque stylist). Their early singles on Parlophone (courtesy of Martin) were comprised of highly respectable R&B; covers (\"Land of 1000 Dances\") and freakbeat. By 1967, their sound had developed similarly to many of their peers into an eclectic mix of folkrock (probably Byrdsinfluenced) and even psychedelia. Eventually, this group would disband, later forming an even better pure psych group called Mighty Baby, but Rolled Gold captures their final demo recordings in 196768. The music on this collection offers evidence that The Action were a truly wronged band. The hooks are bright, the playing rough but assured, and the songwriting on par with anything The Who or Zombies were producing. However, the subpar demoquality of the recordings (this material was laid down hastily in hopes of landing a new record deal) robs more than a little power from the music for that reason, you'll need some imagination to draw parallels between this record and Odessey and Oracle. Nevertheless, there are moments of brilliance any lover of late60s British rock will want to hear. The opener \"Come Around\" was planned to open a pending (but never recorded) proper LP, and it's a lively slice of protopowerpop, with that dash of quaint melodicism only the English bands could pull off convincingly. The descending bassline and Reg King's stately boom practically define the Mod sound in 1967, as does the flowery white soul of \"Something to Say\". Even better is the showstopping, Austin Powersdestroying frill of \"In My Dream\". The chorus is the ultimate crossbreeding of modcool, Bond sheen and garage splinter, and I can only imagine the splash they'd have made had this ever been given the professional veneer it deserved (though George Martin's minimal touches are ace). The highlight of the compilation one that transforms Rolled Gold from an interesting curio into a near musthave is the transcendent, rocksplendor of \"Brain\". Reg King shouts, barely able to contain himself, \"Take your brain/ It's time to go/ You don't have long to go!\" over a wahwah fueled pound that would make Thunderclap Newman proud. Brent Rademaker of Beachwood Sparks contributes some liner notes to this collection, and gives his awed respects to this song rightly so, as \"Brain\" alone dwarfs most neopsych bands entire catalogs. Classic. Of course, not every song is a winner, and the lack of production keeps me from determining just how this stuff would have worked as a coherent experience (singles are a blast, but surely The Action deserved an entry in the concept LP sweepstakes of their day). A collection of their released material titled Action Packed is also available, and any serious evaluation of their sound begins there. However, there's something magical about this stuff, too, and I'd guess anyone sufficiently into the scene might eventually work their way through to it. "}