{"label":" Tomlab","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3073/homepage_large.34b78a8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Flim","title":"Helio","text":" Flim's debut album, Given You Nothing, was an unusual release for Tomlab. Most of Enrico Wuttke's tracks (for he is Flim) were built around minimal piano melodies, with hints of synthesis added here and there. The Brian Eno/Harold Budd release The Plateaux of Mirror was one reference point, with a bit more processing and the occasional addition of beats. It was a fine record that stood apart from the bedroom IDM world it was lumped with it just didn't sound like anything else. Guitarbased laptop folktronica is everywhere at the moment; Wuttke is one of the few artists applying these same ideas (deconstructing and rearranging the deep associations bound up inside the tone of a familiar instrument) to the ancient, cumbersome piano. The followup album, Helio, is considerably more varied and ultimately more in line with Tomlab's catalog with its computerbased sound, but there remains a unique edge to Flim. Synthetic sounds now dominate and the piano becomes a baseline reference sound that comes and goes. \"How I Trashed My Knees\" beings the album, oddly enough, with a droning harmonium melody, but before the track disappears down a dark Grubbsian hole of endlessly held tones, a pop bassline and shakers come in, reminders that Flim works in the realm of instrumental pop. The piano doesn't even make an appearance until three minutes in, at which point Wuttke taps away on a tensionbuilding cluster of notes, and then the drones recede and Wuttke finds solace in a pattern only slightly more complicated than \"Chopsticks\". \"How I Trashed My Knees\" introduces the more dynamic and layered version of Flim. The most arresting moments on Helio come when the sound of the piano is tweaked and rendered as imperfect and malleable as the surrounding electronics. The keyboard is recorded so high on \"Conversation\" that a mist of red distortion surrounds each note, bringing the sound of wood soundboards and steel wires completely into the electrical realm. \"Snow Behind My Chair\" achieves a similar effect. Both of these tracks go for an innocent musicbox melody vibe, but \"New Livingin\" shows another side of Flim, with booming, distorted drums and a punchy keyboard riff that dissolves into a swirl of delicate feedback for its coda. Occasionally, Helio veers even further into abrasive territory. The midrange drone of \"For Fred\" almost seems designed to irritate the ear, although at low volume you'd never know it and the fact that it serves as a counterpoint to a minimal piano bit along with more huge percussion makes it more tolerable. No question, Helio is all over the place, a serious departure from Flim's debut. It's inevitably less consistent, but the range of material here points to many potentially intriguing future records. "}