{"label":" Plinkity Plonk","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3075/homepage_large.3c1fe325.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Flim","title":"Holiday Diary","text":" The phrase \"thrown together\" denotes carelessness, but it's not always so. It's possible to be both spontaneous and reverent. After beginning his recording career with the intensely focused Given You Nothing, which consisted mostly of solo piano, Flim's Enrico Wuttke has loosened up and started to experiment. Most of the limited edition Holiday Diary (500 copies were pressed) was recorded in a single day, pieced together from field recordings and melodic fragments played by Wuttke on guitar, organ, piano and accordion. By definition, Holiday Diary was thrown together, perhaps, but there's something interesting at work. Wuttke has a knack for making seemingly incongruent sounds work together. The opening \"Murmer Room\" is built around a loop of a plucked acoustic guitar, and Wuttke layers keyboard and percussive sounds, the random banging of a drunk navigating a darkened room. The following \"Lime\", one of two tracks recorded in 2001, opens with shifting chords on what sounds like a pipe organ, eerily evocative of Popul Vuh, and then a massive, distorted power chord shatters the meditative mood until the organ eventually resurfaces. \"Current Description\" is a dark and sad piano solo with just a faint wisp of processing, and here Wuttke's 25 years of training are apparent, as he squeezes every drop of feeling from the gulflike spaces between the notes.Holiday Diary is a backandforth kind of record that jumps between sounds and styles, but it works. Shifting gears yet again, \"Above Seagulls\" displays Wuttke's oftstated love for Talk Talk's Laughing Stock, with loose, booming drums and a circular chord structure ribbed with tension. Then it's back to piano for \"Home\", a minimalist piece that could have come from Philip Glass' solo piano record. \"No Guitars Please\" is a short piece for accordion, and then \"Ecstatic Brown\" is a return to field recordings, piling identifiable scrapes and bumps with throbbing organ chords in the manner of CSchulz & Hajsch before releasing the tension by folding in a delicate piano melody. Kid606 and his ilk brag of being able to make an album in one night, but Holiday Diary is different. It feels like a backlog of ideas assembled quickly for posterity, yes, but somehow the slapdash nature of the project seems perfect. It feels organic, simultaneously random and unified. I'm not going to call Wuttke a genius, but after hearing three albums I will say that his music is unusually fresh and unique. Who else is combining the most trad acoustic sound possible (untreated piano) with heavy electronics? His music is generally serious with a faint whiff of academia, but Wuttke keeps his eye on the ball and moves to maximize the effectiveness of each individual track. And most importantly, he sounds like no one else, which, these days, counts for a lot. "}