{"label":" Teenbeat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13225/homepage_large.018015f9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Flin Flon","title":"Dixie","text":" For more than two decades, Mark Robinson has left his bewildering mark on indie rock, most notably in the seminal Unrest, the underrated, if shortlived Air Miami, and now Flin Flon. Robinson's is a quirky legacy. He's just as likely to lovingly spoonfeed you sugary pop as he is to make you take your medicine in the form of uncompromising sonic experiments. Look no further than the shrill, sustained tone of \"Volume Reference Control\", which introduces Unrest's Imperial f.f.r.r., for an example of Robinson's penchant for noise (and, apparently, tormenting dogs). On Dixie, Flin Flon's third album since forming in 1997, the band appears to be heading down the same road. To fulfill the experimental quota, the record is bookended by two punishingly hyperactive drum solos, \"Cavendish\" and \"Capstick\", courtesy of drummer Matt Datesman. It's a screwball way to begin and end an album, but it immediately ushers you into the world of Flin Flon which hasn't changed much since the last visit. The band still sounds like some precisely engineered machine: slick and polished, but somehow sterile. Datesman's rumbling drums and Nattles' ubiquitous bass create an airless backdrop for Robinson's singlenote guitar spikes and chiming chords. Flin Flon are always tight, but these songs are almost choked to death as the band seldom shifts tempo or uses silence or space to add depth to the compositions. One exception is \"Trafalgar\", which opens with Robinson's brittle, ringing guitar and a more subdued bass line from Nattles. By the time Datesman's percussion enters, it's playing a supporting role instead of indulging in a freeforall of nonstop fills. In another peculiar decision, Dixie's drum solos are followed and preceded by alternate versions of the same song, \"Cardigan\". It's probably the album's standout, but even \"Stairway to Heaven\" only appears on one side of Led Zeppelin IV. On \"Cardigan\", Robinson gives us a dose of his oblique lyrics, relying on suggestion rather than anything concrete to describe a rocky relationship: \"Rip, torn/ Nice sweater/ Nice fabric/ Nice way to create a distraction.\" It's an approach that has long served him well and is suited to the music's sharp edges. The aspiring geographers among Pitchfork's readership may have noticed that every song title mentioned from Dixie refers to a place in Nova Scotia or that the band's name itself is a city in Manitoba (\"a picturesque mining community and tourist paradise\" boasts the city's website). While Robinson's obsession with Canadian place names is pretty weird, it's also an interesting way to think about Flin Flon's music. Like a cartographer who leaves no location on a map unnamed, Flin Flon sticks to familiar territory on Dixie, never truly exploring its sound or venturing into the unknown. "}