{"label":" AMT","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3078/homepage_large.c4f1a390.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Floating Flower","title":"1st + 2nd","text":" The tunneling: you can hear this, deeply buried under layers of guitar, tabla, wordless descants, and heavenly spaceguitar in Floating Flower's music. This sound, heard in so many acidic shaman works, should be a background element, like the quaint white noise on psychedelic Beatles records or the woefully misplaced pan flutes in digital new age music. It swirls disorientingly like a funnel cloud, panned across the mix. The trick is not to think of this sound as a device of dissonance, or worse, as something to initiate your high, but merely as something to enhance what is already way out there. Of course, it might help if you were pretty far out, too.Japan's acidfolk trio Floating Flower is far out as a matter of practice. In fact, as you read this, Yuki and Kaneko Tetsuya are probably somewhere in India or Nepal, tripping into nirvana, becoming one with a mountain or two, and generally embodying all that is psychedelically true. The third member, Acid Mother Temple's Kawabata Makoto, is tying up all the loose ends: mixing their records, releasing them on his label, trying to keep \"spongers\" out of their house while they're away, though he's sure Yuki and Tetsuya don't care how many CDs they sell (if any). Floating Flower may one day make more music, but no one really knows when the other two will return.In the meantime, Black Plastic Sound's reissue of their first two albums (originally on AMT) on one disc gives me the chance to hear the results of their extended journeys into other planes. Taking the classic sound of traditional folk, adding Eastern percussion and strings, ghostly female vocals, searing (but never heavy) electric guitar solos, and the dreaded tunneling, Floating Flower make cosmic waves for anyone who wants to tag along. The simple acoustic guitar figures might fool you into thinking this was something to soothe and relax, and though that is one option, it's not nearly that passive 12 minutes into an epic trip.\"Wave Ring\" finds all the elements of Floating Flower's sound in place, as the tablas provide an omnipresent gallop for the melancholy guitar line and Yuki's reverbladen soprano. For better than 10 minutes, the trio vamps into the nether regions of the soul. And the song would be mindnumbingly repetitive were it not for that massive funnel cloud of sound I spoke of earlier. At first, it's restrained by the more minstrelsy ensemble sound, but over the song's course, it's transformed into a raging cylinder. To make it through this music, it's probably best to let it wash over you like the incoming tide, drowning in wave after wave of sonically/chemically altered magic. Otherwise, you're likely to be as lost as Yuki and Tetsuya in Nepal.  "}