{"label":" Constellation","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3093/homepage_large.b1a452bb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Fly Pan Am","title":"N'ecoutez Pas","text":" Led by Godspeed You Black Emperor! guitarist Roger TellierCraig, Fly Pan Am are but one of many storefront operations spun off from that multilimbed Montrealbased behemoth. And, as has been the case with other branch offices like Set Fire to Flames, Do Make Say Think, or A Silver Mt. Zion, Fly Pan Am have experienced some difficulty establishing an identity distinct from their parent organization. Due primarily to TellierCraig's instantly recognizable playing style, the angular instrumental artfunk that predominated the group's first two albums too often resembled a paredback, less engaging GYBE! But that all changes dramatically on N'Ecoutez Pas (which, unless my pidgin French has failed me, translates to \"Don't Listen\".) Here, on their third fulllength, Fly Pan Am complete a Black Dicecaliber personality shift, abandoning all previous formulae and pushing their sound outward in all directions. For the first time, they incorporate vocals into their attack along with an unruly array of electronics, keyboards, and field recordings all of which results in their finest and most fully realized work to date. The album is erected around the twin pillars of \"Autunt ZigZag\" and \"Trés Trés Retro\", two 11minute showpieces that give Fly Pan Am enough elbow room to flex their suddenly considerable Krautrocknourished muscles over massive hunks of terrain. \"ZigZag\" is Fly Pan Am's noisiest and perhaps best piece yet, combining layers of hissing electronics with a wriggling edifice of distorted guitar worthy of My Bloody Valentine, all while garbled voices whisper and conspire malevolently. In French, no less. Eventually, the fog lifts enough to reveal the charred tree stumps that pass by your railcar window as countless little bugsized motors chug away ineffectually. \"Trés Trés Retro\" is a somewhat simpler affair, and its stuttering drums and hypnotic, loping bass hearken back to Fly Pan Am's 1999 debut, on which they dabbled extensively with minimalism and the beauty of repetition (most memorably when TellierCraig at one point plucked the same simple chord repeatedly for over 10 minutes). Here, though, the band gives the rhythm section plenty of traffic to weave through, with blinking stoplight keyboards and strange cutup vocal edits constantly emerging to ensure that you don't get too mesmerized by that centerline. The shorter tracks assembled around these two epics are something of a motley bunch, though impressive in their scope and variety. The handsomely dissonant opener \"Br\\xFBlez Suivant, Suivante!\" brings Fly Pan Am about as close to conventional song structure as they've ever been, calling to mind Evolera Sonic Youth. The jagged, muttering \"Pas à Pas Step Until\" should cause Boredoms fans to crane their necks. Less successful are brief electronic morsels like \"Buvez Nos Larmes de Métal\" (translation: \"Drink Our Metal Tears\") or the burbling, appropriately titled \"...\" which, at best, functions as a palate cleanser. So while N'Ecoutez Pas might not be the most consistent record you'll ever hear, at its best it finds Fly Pan Am approaching peaks of intensity and ragged splendor that few bands even acknowledge, let alone attempt to scale. Even better is that the whole thing is too damaged sounding to even remotely resemble GY!BE: For the first time, Fly Pan Am soar on their own wings. "}