{"label":" iMusic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3112/homepage_large.39412ed4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"The Folk Implosion","title":"The New Folk Implosion","text":" Guys, could I have a minute to talk with Lou in private? Nice, thanks; I'll get to The New Folk Implosion in a moment. Alright, Mr. Barlow, I think we're alone now. So, I'm just speaking for myself here, but do you know what I liked best about your work with Sebadoh, way back before you started Folk Imploding on the side? I'm not talking about Gaffney's or Lowenstein's noise work just your stuff. It wasn't the sleepy bedroom hiss, and it wasn't any of the plaintive sadpop gems you turned out; it was the obvious sincerity, the desire behind the music. Fuck analog you could've recorded III and Bakesale with an abacus and the only thing that would've still come through would have been the fact that you were making music for you, and no one else. Why did that have to change? There's a guy, used to hang around with The Residents, by the name of N. Senada; maybe you've heard of him. Even though it was probably just another one of those Residents gimmicks, he came up with this \"Theory of Obscurity\"; an artist does his or her best work when they never expect anyone else to experience it in other words, when they aren't working for an audience. Lou, you are the living, breathing proof of this theory, and I just can't help but think you've been looking for another \"Natural One\" since 1997, something else to fill the gap where radioland success used to reside, and everything has suffered for it. It's like all of a sudden you realized that we've been listening in on you. I mean, big deal, what industry seer could have foretold the success of that slowest of slowburners, that slinky, understated temptation? More importantly, who cares? So you won the hearts of thousands for a while; so Interscope picked you up just long enough to drop you after One Part Lullaby failed to deliver a hit single. Like you're a Musician now? The capital M only leads to trouble, m'man; the music should be an end all its own. If I may be so bold, fuck us. We suck; all audiences do is stab you in the back the minute you let them down. It's always the same with us \"What have you done for me lately?\" In the end, the only thing we, the eminently fickle public, love more than building up heroes is tearing them back down. Who needs that? Leave stardom to soulless automatons like Justin Timberlake and mass iMedia crossover icon DMX; you're a human boy. As I understand it, being dismissed from Interscope took quite a toll, but you should just be glad that you got out with life and limb intact. As for the latest, The New Folk Implosion, you may say, \"I'm doing this for myself. It's an expression of something I did with my friends,\" but I know the work you've done for yourself. I know it well. And this record was made with an audience in mind. So, if you're out there, Mr. Barlow, you don't need us, never did; you were doing great on your own. All right, c'mon back in the room. The issue (finally, I know) at hand is The New Folk Implosion. Some things have changed since last we left our players at the unimpressive end of Lullaby; John Davis called it quits back in '01, and Lou lined up guitarist Imaad Wasif and even convinced drummer Russ Pollard (of Sebadoh lore) to put in an appearance. Gone with Davis are most of the triphop trappings, leaving the band to revert to something akin to the morose, jangly, guitardriven roots of, yes, Sebadoh. The 'Scope wasn't buying the new sound, as you know, and so the wayward trio found a new home at iMusic. To recap: new label, new lineup, new sound; hence, The New Folk Implosion. The one thing that hasn't changed, unfortunately, is the quest for acceptance. A seemingly reactionary statement to the failure of the more exotic, and far better, Lullaby, the band's new sound is nothing short of painfully, achingly banal. It goes to ridiculous lengths to avoid the risk of turning anyone away, and in doing so, becomes so unassuming so innocuous it might as well be invisible. Everything here is halfrealized; the uniform tempos and quaint melodies are easily forgotten. Occasionally, The New Folk Implosion flirts with sensitive grunge ballads (\"Coral\", \"Brand New Skin\") and awkward, shambling altrockers (\"Fuse\", replete with Neil Younginspired guitars blazing), but it never pans out the rock dynamics the band attempts to explore just don't mesh with Barlow's strengths as a songwriter. The only time the album really comes into its own and this should surprise no one is when the mainstream rock posturing comes down to reveal the quieter moments of the record. \"Pearl\" is exactly what the name implies: a simple, beautiful acoustic gem in the rough, entirely displaced among the power chords and middling hooks that dominate the rest of the album. It's a sunset over the love of two people soon to be very far apart for a very long time, accompanied by a delicate, loping refrain and a few moments of sparkling piano; easily one of the most sensitive tunes Lou's ever penned. Aside from that brief reprieve, the only other really redeeming track is \"Easy\", a softspoken tune that merely serves to remind listeners how naturally these melancholy, personal ruminations come to Barlow, and implicitly, how unnatural the rest of the album is in contrast.The New Folk Implosion closes out with, thankfully, a little bit of dignity, hearkening back to the laidback wonder of midperiod Sebadoh, though it still flinches from the comparison, begging the unpleasant question of why there isn't more of the old magic. Well, as Lou sings on \"Easy\", in perhaps the most telling moment of this record, \"What I thought was fun isn't fun anymore.\" But then, working for the satisfaction of others before oneself rarely is. "}