{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3126/homepage_large.37015e89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Forcefield","title":"Roggaboggas","text":" Dudes straight took over the last Whitney Biennial. Whether it was the extensive photographic portraiture and videos of snowboarding bros shredding around the world, or the ceilinghigh murals from the Destroy All Monsters collective rendering the mugugly visages of The Stooges, The Nuge, Sun Ra, and Grand Funk Railroad for all the art world to see, there was a palpable masculine presence as their hobbies somehow became high art. The weirdest room of all, though, belonged to the Forcefield collective. In a darkened enclave stood legions of dummy robots, unholy and menacing crossbreeds of Chewbacca high priests and Jawa faghags with tasers. Randomly they would spaz or flash redlit eyes, emitting highpitched squeals or other analog squelches. The effect was much like that of a G.G. Allin show at Alice Tully Hall, as blowhard art patrons were literally pinned to the back wall, afraid that at any moment one of the orangehaired mannequins might make a charge at them with a clawful of shit. Forcefield had turned the Whitney into a painthuffing haunted house for at least one room, and it was hilariously terrifying. Without the showroom dummies in conical handknits and Cousin It wigs, it's hard to attain the same effect with just this plastic wafer of sound effects and preprogrammed loops, buttressed by live recordings of the evermysterious Patootie Lobe, Meerk Puffy, Gorgon Radeo, and Le Geef but it'll have to do. Snatches of tigerstripe patterns and Moog patches only begin to touch upon what kind of weirdness and oddcolored light is emitted from Forcefield's compound in Providence, RI, which serves as a primordial omphalos of sorts that led to offspring such as Lightning Bolt and Black Dice. While these groups are busy embodying \"rock,\" Forcefield is operating on a subsubconscious level of scrambled UHF signals and stonedbrain alpha waves, reveling in the mental damage that maxithins and public access shows can really do when given a chance to melt together. Amoebic and amorphous, they absorb synthesized sounds both scathing and cheesy. \"Hoedown\" is drummachine cowboys and crow meat for twenty seconds, while the slightly longer \"3rd Annual Roggabogga Motion Picture Soundtrack\" is some of Sun Ra's primitive spacefarts under a fuzzyrug waterfall with Battlestar Galactica reruns in the background. \"Inverse/Interior Plane of 3rd Annual Roggabogga (Behind the Scenes)\" is nigh on fifteen minutes of droid sighs (replete with Warhol whitewig and goldenshag tapeworm), and Technicolor ripples from deep within the Ituri forest, their Atari 2600 plastics firmly melded with their engorged frontal lobes. More ethnic illness is in the \"Radio Puebla Metallica\" bits, as tablas loop ad nauseam before the acidhouse of \"Assassins Rmx 'Assassabogga'\" salivates over the divaskulls still dressed in floorlength jack o'lantern argyle gowns. \"Field Recording of 3rd Annual Roggabogga\" is another quarterhour of robot jungle juice live from the Whitney, or some other such lost continental ceremony, and the \"2nd Annual Roggabogga\" is similarly sustained damage, making the end of the disc a bit too mindnumbing to crawl through completely. Betaera digital collage and gradeZ cultural clutter are what powers Forcefield best, and while the glossy pics add another element to the puzzle, it remains impossible to fully assess their work through this release alone. The parameters of early Boredoms metalingua and art schoolera Devo's synthesized jockolobotomies are firmly in place, as are each band's outlandish dress codes, but there's so much more going on up at the compound (video art, installation, comics and other newsprint publications, etc.) that this can be but a Roswelllike fragment of their obscured Tommyknocker craft. "}