{"label":" Overcoat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3145/homepage_large.1ab66071.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Frames","title":"The Roads Outgrown","text":" Conceptually, the collection of Bsides, outtakes, and arbitrary live tracks is an underwhelming proposition. Usually packed fat with studio scraps, bits of live shows, dubious band experiments, covers, and a mess of other shit that doesn't quite fit anywhere else, outtakes discs are typically devised as a boon for completists, assembled without the internal and temporal cohesion of an album, and delivered to the public with minimal ceremony. Check the outtakes disc as the musical equivalent of a Sunday morning yard sale: a row of rickety folding tables overstocked with dusty, aging crap that was deemed too valuable to toss blindly, but not considered functional enough to keep around. Staple a construction paper sign to the nearest telephone pole, drag a rusty plastic lawn chair out from the garage, and sell every last thing for a dollar. Irish folkrockers The Frames have been fractured and reassembled a ridiculous number of times since their original formation in 1990, and their latest release, The Roads Outgrown, features selected nonpieces and leftovers from their last three years as a performing unit: a Will Oldham cover (\"Tomorrow's Too Long\"), a Mic Christopher song (\"Listen Girl\"), an outtake from their 2000 Albini sessions (\"Rise\"), a handful of reworked tracks from their last fulllength (2001's For the Birds) and a fiery, tenminute live version of a cut from their second record (\"Fitzcarraldo\"). It's classic outtakescollage, cobbled together from disparate sessions/periods/albums, but, surprisingly, The Roads Outgrown plays more like a cohesive project, its seemingly unrelated cuts assembled with an artful sense of unity.The Roads Outgrown also functions as an oddly convincing introduction to the band, showing how their different methods/lineups always reach the same earthy conclusion: earnest, vaguely melancholic folk songs punctuated by quivering violins and frontman Glen Hansard's shaky country croon. Excellent opener \"Lay Me Down\" (reworked and rerecorded at \"Joan's house\" before being selected for inclusion here) layers a light acoustic guitar melody over heavy bassdrum thumping, easing out in a haze of violin pulls, Hansard's voice flitting from whisper to coo. \"Headlong\" follows, sounding a bit like a Radiohead circaThe Bends Bside, as Hansard howls and strums with welcome intensity. The Oldham cover, meanwhile, is plumped up with whining fiddles and halfwhispered vocals, The Frames' delicate instrumentation breathing new warmth into Will's obtuse poetics. The Frames' understanding of their own discography seems to have informed the fluidity of this collection, and its songtosong coherence is both impressive and perplexing; while boldly varied in tempo, volume, and style, The Roads Outgrown is always concerned with its implicit mission namely, offering sincere, cerebral folkpop crafted with the quiet confidence of a thirteenyear career. "}