{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13418/homepage_large.e262dc13.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Freakwater","title":"Thinking of You","text":" A new Freakwater album has a high hohum quotient. The band has studiously stuck by the same sound for so many years that we already know how it's going to play before we even hear it. We know it's going to have that familiar honkytonk gravitas and hymnlike pacing, the same clever wordplay and powerful harmonies. These ingredients produced a classic of altcountry, 1995's Old Paint, which intensifies the herewegoagain vibe that shadows their subsequent releases: showcasing Janet Beveridge Bean and Catherine Irwin's vocal chops, that album was so good it pickpocketed all their tricks and left them no way to surprise us. So Thinking of You, Freakwater's seventh album, would seem to throw a slight curveball: It features members of Califone as Irwin and Bean's backing band, along with stalwart bass player Dave Gay. But this album isn't the departure that collaboration might suggest; instead of taking them in noisier, experimental, or more modern directions toward, say, Bean's former band, Eleventh Day Dream Califone only helps Freakwater sound even more like themselves. Multiinstrumentalist Tim Rutili uses guitar, organ, and ukulele to add texture songs like \"Cricket Versus Ant\" and \"Jewel\", and Evelyn Weston's bowed saw adds a little mystery to \"Jack the Knife\", but the most prominent instrument remains pedal steel here courtesy of Jon Spiegel which accentuates the country melancholia on almost every song. For Freakwater, the accompaniment is and always has been secondary; this is primarily a vocaloriented band, and Bean and Irwin do the highlonesomeinacrowdedbar sound better than just about anyone around. The opener, \"Right Brothers\", resounds like a torch song sung by arsonists, igniting a simmering verse into a fiery and forceful chorus. \"Loserville\" is so gorgeously bitter that it's difficult to decide if it's an anthem or a lament, and \"Upside Down\" is a perspectivetwisting stomp that settles somewhere between defiant and selfdeprecating. \"Sap\" is all wordplay about being lost for words: \"I fell like a thing that falls,\" Irwin sings. \"And I crashed like a thing that crashes,\" Bean responds. Before the song ends, they turn these tonguetied similes in on themselves: \"I broke like the kind of thing that just can't bend,\" they sing in unison, \"and it went on and on and on like a thing that just won't end.\" Bean and Irwin favor an unhurried tempo that allows their voices to crescendo gradually and dramatically. This reliance slows some songs, stalls others. Califone enables them to quicken that pace, but not to move with any more agility, so the album's reach occasionally goes beyond the range of their harmonies. They inject some 60s spunk into \"So Strange\", but the song feels a little leaden despite its goforbroke breakdown, and the closer \"Hi Ho Silver\" never quite reaches the heights it aims for. But the band's longevity is the result of perseverance and personality rather than innovation. Which is fine: theirs is a traditionbound music, and Thinking of You just makes it sound like their tradition is no longer comprised of the typical prerock sources, but of every previous Freakwater album. "}