{"label":" Ground Control","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3161/homepage_large.51fe6b6c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Freestyle Fellowship","title":"Temptations","text":" Operating under the assumption that all freestyle is essentially the same, I will draw all analogies to Freestyle Fellowship's new album, Temptations, from another sort of freestyle: Canine Freestyle.\"Canine Freestyle is choreographed dog performance with music, illustrating the training and joyful relationship of a dog and handler team. Canine Freestyle expands the sport of obedience by broadening the scope of dog training, adding an artistic element through the inclusion of music and dance. The reach, drive and beauty of an athletic, trained dog moving to music can take one's breath away.\" Canine Freestyle Federation Whew, let me catch my breath I was just watching some dog freestyle! Although you might imagine that dog freestyle (aka \"The Best Idea Ever\") would bear only a semantic resemblance to the Freestyle Fellowship, you would be gravely wrong. The similarities are actually quite striking. Allow me to elaborate.\"Without sharing would this have happened? No, it would not have happened.\" From the article \"Canine Freestyle: A Point of View\" by Joan Tenille Los Angelesbased hiphop legends the Freestyle Fellowship share four ways between the capable flow of MCs Mikah 9, Self Jupiter, Aceyalone and P.E.A.C.E. None of them sound simply like roleplayers; each has skills enough to carry an album (and each one of them has). And yet, for one reason or another, they continue to step out of their personal spotlights to contribute to this posse. It's worked well in the past.\"Your dog will quickly learn to recognize his music for his Freestyle. You'll see a new sparkle in his eye, feet stepping higher and a tail wagging harder. A new star is born.\" From the article \"Getting Started with Canine Freestyle,\" by Alison Jaskiewicz The Freestyle Fellowship caught on to the game quickly. Before even signing to a label, the Fellowship owned the L.A. underground scene with bootlegged copies of their 1991 deeperthanunderground debut, To Whom It May Concern. They followed it up with an acknowledged underground masterpiece, Inner City Griots, in 1993. Griots displayed the ample MC skills of the posse boisterous, urgent, energetic, and playful. A new star was born. In the eight years hence, however, it looks like the acclaim's gone to their collective heads. As I see it, the Rhyming Confidence Spectrum (RCS) begins at \"cocky\" and runs all the way to \"delusions of Godhood.\" In other words, all MCs start out cocky. And cocky is good you want a cocky MC. Then, with acclaim, some get fatter in the cranium, believing themselves \"enlightened\" (see Common, QTip), and in the most severe cases, become convinced of their own divinity (see Rakim, Jay Z). Unfortunately, delusions of Godhood, when not actually accompanied by lyrical Godhood, merely spell complacency. With no chip on his shoulder, the MC thinks he's so good that he no longer even bothers to prove it. And on Temptations, the ego trip is intolerable. One especially contrived example comes with \"Fragrance,\" a poetry number based on random vibraphones and guest rapper Abstract Rude going overboard with nonsense cliches like, \"Scattered thoughts of our battered love to its bloody pulp fiction was Tarantinoesque. Ghetto Juliette!\" On other tracks, the guys simply sound older and more complacent, unlike on Inner City Griots, when their youthful exuberance might have even been construed as showing off. But when an MC has the flow of Aceyalone or Mikah 9, you want him to show off. These moments are too rare on Temptations.\"Do I have to dance? No, emphatically no! But, yes, you may.\" From the article \"Canine Freestyle: Do I Have to Dance?\" by Alison Jaskiewicz Do I have to dance to this album? No, emphatically no! But yes, I suppose dancing to Temptations is possible (maybe even with your \"bitch,\" if your dog is a girl). The beats on Temptations truly sound like freestyle beats, as if producer Josef Leimberg had them preloaded on his keyboard since 1993, just in case the Fellowship ever decided to show up to the studio. I mean, Inner City Griots's background was never considered especially fresh, but there was charm in those basic beats they always seemed so practical, never trying to impress or steal the show from the main attraction. On Temptations, the shit comes off like the \"street\" preset blaring from some imitation Casio keyboard in the back of a Pamida storeroom (check the discount Aceyalone cut, \"Different\").\"Just as in evaluating a dog for conformation where you must consider the whole dog, not just the parts, so when evaluating Freestyle movement, overanalysis of parts feet, tail, head, body results in loss of the whole picture. You can analyze a Mozart piano concerto note by note and still not fathom the genius of the whole piece. The whole is greater than the sum of the parts.\" From the article, \"Music, Rhythm and Freestyle,\" by Alison Jaskiewicz Ms. Jaskiewicz has a good point. While I'll avoid any Mozart references, I do appreciate the general structure of her analogy. The Fellowship has always been about the rhymes. Thus, the \"freestyle\" association. The whole story is that Aceyalone, Mikah 9, P.E.A.C.E. and Saturn still have flow. Sure, that flow has changed with age, but it's still confident and sortof interesting. The first few tracks, notably \"No Hooks, No Chorus\" and the title track, sound mature but remain fierce. Overall, though, the frenetic spirit displayed on their first two discs has regressed a little, backing up from \"inspiring\" to \"decent.\" And for all its flaws, it really isn't a bad disc. Just a disappointing one. "}