{"label":" Nation","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13176/homepage_large.46d6ff04.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Asian Dub Foundation","title":"Facts and Fictions","text":" \"The music we make supposedly contains a lot of different styles, but it's not eclectic. It's a reflection of everything that we listen to and the people we interact with. We use 'dub' in our title because dub is a framework for experimentation, not just about reproducing a sound from a previous era.\" So says the liner notes from this reissue of Asian Dub Foundation's debut album, originally released in 1995. It's an interesting assertion, and one I'm inclined to agree with. True to that summary, Facts and Fictions does incorporate elements of many styles, but it really doesn't come across as eclectic, as every element is fully incorporated into a base sound that's fairly consistent from song to song, and, to a lesser extent, from album to album. You can hear the influence of dub in the way the music's put together; you can hear hip hop, jungle and bhangra in its rhythmic undercarriage, rock in the guitars, and traditional Bengali and North Indian music in the instrumentation and samples they employ. The resulting mix is something incredibly unique and frequently arresting, but while their music may wear multinational tendencies on its sleeve, their lyrics are fiercely, proudly Indian. This is third release of Facts and Fictions, and it's clothed in one of the most thoroughly awful covers I've seen in years. Yes it's the music that counts, but the artwork is inexcusable give that the label already had two better sleeves to choose from. The Foundation coalesced at a music technology workshop for Asian youth in London, and quickly developed a political stridency based on antiracism, displayed vividly in their lyrics, without much mincing of words. Britain's large Indian population has long felt itself marginalized in their society, and not without reason, as the lingering haze of colonialism still refuses to fade away. Vocalist Deedar \"Master D\" Zaman peppers his raps with lines like \"We're often told that this country's bursting at the seams/ But we're never told that there are in fact more people leaving than entering/ Immigration has become synonymous with black people/ Yet over sixty percent of immigrants are white,\" laying out his case in the plainest possible terms. This is where we start to run up against some problems: at this early point in the Foundation's evolution, their righteousness was occasionally clumsy. Read those lines above again; they may be true, and it's an alarming reality (revealing some rotten agendas), but, god, it's not exactly poetry. On top of this, diction somewhat compromises the message Deedar strives so hard to put forth, due to his singularly odd mix of Cockney drawl and Reggaeinfluenced flow. The Foundation's lyrics occasionally seem to run at cross purposes as well, mixing messages like \"We are gonna/ Spread power with words,\" from \"Debris\" with lines that advocate violence against fascists: \"Time is getting short, elections in May/ Give the fascist man a gunshot that's the only way.\" I hate fascists, too, but this lowers the Foundation to the level of their enemies, and as a message, it's not constructive. However formative the album is as a whole, Facts and Fictions still contains a few stunning moments, such as the media indictment refrain to \"PKNB\": \"The Sun [UK tabloid] has got its facts wrong and it's fucking up my day,\" delivered over a slowly morphing beat that creeps from slow and deliberate to driving and manic, with tabla loops keeping a constant pulse in the background. The single \"Rebel Warrior\" is the band's best early song, with its strangely calming swirl of keys, flutes, and sampled Indian singers forming a disarmingly comfortable backdrop for Deedar, railing against the final vestiges of British Empire. Chadrasonic's guitar is given more breathing room than usual, and Deedar relaxes his delivery, becoming more intelligible without sacrificing his style.Facts and Fictions is an interesting look at where the Asian Dub Foundation got their start as politicallycharged upstarts in the mid90s, but I'd only recommend it to fans who don't already own it. Newcomers are much better off going for either Rafi's Revenge or Community Music, albums that showcase the Foundation in full, amazing effect. "}