{"label":" VHF","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3189/homepage_large.88eb9cad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"From Quagmire","title":"Caught in Unknowing","text":" This record requires concentration and quiet, so the musicians can creak into view, and Dorothy Geller's first couple words can fall like the year's first drops of rain. The trio From Quagmire, classified as a \"chamber\" ensemble, play a kind of Appalachian Zen that sits in a void: the familiar sounds of the violin and nylonstringed guitar are cast in an charged atmosphere, and they tolerate so much silence that each sound bears significance. It's not unlike last year's album by Nina Nastasia in its downhometinged creepiness, but Caught in Unknowing is more introspective, more improvisational, and even sparer; the cross between Geller's restrained playing and her bandmates' noisy wanderings makes this a fascinating listen. Geller wrote and sings the songs, and it's her methodically plucked acoustic guitar that plays the frail backbones of the melodies: every theme is simple and deliberate, and there are echoes of Bill Frisell's Where in the World? Admittedly, her playing occasionally gets monotonous, but at best her themes are hushed and portentous. She only uses a handful of lyrics, singing them in a voice that's so small and quiet, yet the exceptional recording and spaciousness of the music allow you to train on it. But these songs are just a guidepost for the other two members of From Quagmire, who provide exotic improvisation around the melodies. James Wolf plays violin (along with Geller, he was a member of Laconic Chamber), and the third member, percussionist and this session's engineer Vincent Van GoGogh hails from the Washington, DC \"freakazoid ensemble\" Rake. Van GoGogh and Wolf both veer from quiet to sonic extremes, but always at an unchanging, drawnout pace, sustaining each high pitch to suggest the feeling they're rubbing their hearts against a knife. The opener, \"Viennese II\", sets the stage effectively for both musicians' \"solos\": Wolf's violin has a countrygonewrong twinge to its sawing, then erupts in buzzing lines and piercing skitters; Van GoGogh can attack his drums with a dry, rapid thud, like wings beating wood, but at other times he slows down with rumbles, a gong, or what sound like bowed cymbals. These solo pieces color the subtle mood swings that differentiate the songs; for example, the twelveminute \"Victims and Second Viennese\" plays the most with the dynamics: the central bridge tightens intensely, and Geller's guitar gets a little more emphatic. A little. Geller's writing may shape the band, but it's Wolf's and Van GoGogh's unfailing inventiveness that make this so engaging, with none of the plodding repetition that's too common in similar chamber bands. Instead of an easy flow, it's uneasily static. From Quagmire's wandering drops away during the closer, \"Stalemate\", and though they sound like they're back where they started, within this space they've dug up a wealth of detail. "}