{"label":" Dischord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3214/homepage_large.fb5c3a51.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Fugazi","title":"The Argument","text":" This past January, I was one of a few hundred lucky individuals jammed into the sweaty confines of the Middle East Downstairs in Cambridge, Massachusetts, checking out a triple bill of excellent bands: local roofraisers Cracktorch, jazzrockers Karate, and the indomitable Dismemberment Plan. About halfway through their set, the Plan stopped for a brief break between songs and Travis Morrison, ever the insightful one, took a moment to acknowledge the fact that the intersection outside the club had been christened Mark Sandman Square, after the late Morphine frontman. Applause erupted in honor of our local hero, a man who did a great deal of work to help strengthen Boston's nowvibrant music scene in the mid90s. Morrison went on to muse that perhaps there would one day be an Ian MacKaye Circle in Washington D.C., countering some initial laughter with the assertion that nations like the Netherlands and Belgium are doing a better job of celebrating our rich musical legacy than we are, erecting statues in honor of Charlie Parker and John Coltrane in their squares. Those comments have stuck with me, and I've come to think that it's a really good idea MacKaye and Fugazi have been a major cultural force in the last decade. They're worthy of public accolades. Over the course of seven albums (counting Instrument and 13 Songs), they've plied a brand of brutal, often Spartan postpunk that's never catered to fashion, while at the same time garnering a large, devoted fanbase that sends their albums into the Billboard Top 200 without the benefit of major label backing or radio airplay. Of course, one primary obstacle to a public memorial for the members of Fugazi is the band's collective politics which, while moralistic and anticorporate, are hardly anticapitalist as many have claimed. In fact, the band has fairly been living the American dream, becoming successful on their own terms without losing the rights to their music or creative direction. They've also taken an active role in positioning their label, Dischord, at the fore of the indie pack; over the years, the label has become the most reliable source of hardhitting postpunk around.The Argument, Fugazi's first proper album since 1998's somewhat disjointed End Hits, is yet another leap forward for a band that has constantly pushed itself in new directions. For one thing, no Fugazi album has ever been this melodic. For the first time ever, you can hum at least part of the melody to every song on the record. As catchy as they sometimes were, you have to admit that whistling \"Bed for the Scraping\" or \"SieveFisted Find\" was never really a prospect. The album opens with an untitled bit of collage that marries static and police radio transmissions to Amy Domingues' brooding cello drones, immediately setting The Argument apart from the band's past work, before \"Cashout\" makes the thoroughness of the transition even more apparent. Domingues' cello carries countermelodies to MacKaye's doubletracked singing throughout the song, which itself is a sort of posthardcore update of the Kinks' \"Muswell Hillbilly.\" MacKaye details a series of evictions as the city takes an apartment complex by eminent domain to make room for a development. After spending so many years screaming their sentiments in your ear, it's nice to see that Fugazi have come to a point where they don't necessarily feel the need to raise their voices to put their point across. Joe Lally and Brendan Canty throw down a furious groove on \"Full Disclosure\" to support Guy Picciotto's demented wailing (\"I want a mutually assured destructive life\") amid screaming guitar interplay. It's excellent, but it's nothing we haven't heard Fugazi do before, until the second verse, where Lally, Picciotto, and MacKaye enter in threepart harmony. The juxtaposition between shockingly smooth vocals (for Fugazi, anyway), and the jagged rhythmic interplay is extremely effective. The energy level stays high on \"Epic Problem,\" as MacKaye delivers his lines telegramstyle, complete with shouts of \"Stop!\" between lines, which the band dutifully obeys. \"And inside I know I'm broken/ But I'm working as far as you can see,\" he sings in the guitar and voice breakdown near the song's end, a section that serves to highlight the fact that this is Fugazi's most produced effort yet. \"Life and Limb,\" \"The Kill,\" and \"Strangelight\" form the album's tense, even spooky backbone, with a focus on melody and intertwining guitar parts, as well as full production that recalls the sound of some of Red Medicine's more ambitious moments. Picciotto's creepy rallying cry of, \"Viva viva viva life and limb\" on \"Life and Limb\" is possibly his subtlest vocal ever, and the guitars buzz like a bees' nest that you know is somewhere nearby, but can't quite locate. There's a nervous tension in the song that energizes like the band's raging bulls from their early days. The cello in the coda of \"Strangelight\" reminds me, of all things, of the Renaissance prog of the Electric Light Orchestra's ultrabizarre first album, No Answer, though the similarity ends with the cello. The coda also incorporates some dark piano phrases, making for one of Fugazi's most interesting timbrel moments yet. This leads into \"Oh,\" a slow antiglobalization anthem that stands out as the only song on the album that doesn't really satisfy. Thankfully, \"ExSpectator,\" one of several songs that benefits from the contributions of second drummer Jerry Busher, quickly redeems things with charging rhythms and more haywire guitar interplay. MacKaye shouts the lines, \"Looking out for cars and mortality/ Trying to find some sort of geometry/ Avoiding mistakes/ Keep an eye on every step I take,\" with the same unbridled aggression he used to make such good use of back when Fugazi were still making a name for themselves. The galloping punk undertow of \"Nightstop\" supports what may be the best song here, and the band even makes room for a restlessly strummed acoustic guitar in the mix. There also appears to be some heavily EQ'd guitar tapping after the second verse. It displays technical prowess without descending into the depths of wankery that so many equally skilled musicians might find themselves in. \"The Argument\" actually sets itself up to be a disappointing closer, with some somewhat questionable stop/start rhythms and a wandering melody, but it picks up after a curious ambient interlude, blasting to a close with a furious swirl of ragged guitar, cymbals, and rumbling bass. Fugazi have made a career out of crafting excellent albums, and with The Argument, they've made one of their best. At this point, I don't see it edging out Red Medicine or 13 Songs from the top of my Fugazi album hierarchy, but it's certainly a worthy entry into their catalog, and proves that they're still one of the most important bands in the world. The dedication of Ian MacKaye Circle may still be a pipe dream, but that doesn't mean that he and the other members of Fugazi don't deserve the honor. "}