{"label":" Instinct","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3225/homepage_large.7143b785.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Future Bible Heroes","title":"Eternal Youth","text":" Have you seen this man? Stephen Merritt, I mean. He was last seen in an East Village dive bar, martini in one hand, rhyming dictionary in the other. Can't really blame him for keeping a low profile, though; after dropping an epic achievement like 69 Love Songs on the unsuspecting public, you'd take a break, too. While the Magnetic Fields have been recently plucked out of the draft by superlabelinthemaking Nonesuch, Merritt's yet to release a followup under his highestprofile name, choosing instead to focus on scoring films, farewell live performances of 69, and writing a musical with stock accordionist and children's author Daniel Handler. Oh yeah, and also releasing another collaboration with Christopher Ewan under the sacrilicious nom de plume of Future Bible Heroes. Like the Heroes' last fulllength, 1997's Memories of Love, Eternal Youth has Ewan electronically arranging songs cowritten with Merritt, with vocals added by Magnetic Fields drummer/occasional singer Claudia Gonson. And also like its predecessor, Eternal Youth feels like more of a lackluster stopgap than equalfooting sidecar for Merritt's songcraft, a frustrating teaser from the Merritt portfolio of aliases. Part of the problem seems to lie with Ewan's arrangements, electropop that no doubt endears him to the equally 80sfixated Merritt. While Merritt's electronic backings often sound like dancefloor anthems for the club inside his head, Ewan's slicker touch has the tendency to present the songs like actual club anthems, losing a lot of the intimacy of the Magnetic Fields' productions. Fair enough, but perhaps not the wisest of approaches given Merritt's flair for clever wordiness, Tin Pan Alleystyle melodicism, and Gonson's voice. Gonson's occasional microphone duties on 69 Love Songs were a treat, as Merritt's songs tend to sound good delivered by the opposite gender. But as the sole vocalist on Eternal Youth (Merritt's Cashian baritone sits this one out), the pleasure of her slightly disinterested, sorta flat tone wears before long. Irony being dead and all (or so I'm told), the detached vocal is an endangered species, and Gonson's throws a warm blanket over the romantics of \"No River\", dampens space oddity \"Doris Day the Earth Stood Still\", and creates the wrong kind of bedroom voice on the smoothoperating \"A Thousand Lovers in a Day\". Merritt, meanwhile, remembers to bring his usual lyrical tricks (\"I'd rather be a queen when the rooks take wing than be losing your affection,\" for instance), but seems to use a lot of his Clist melodies. For a Next Wave of Songcertified man known for penning instanttimeless melodies, it's disappointing to sit through stiffs like \"Find an Open Window\" or \"Kiss Me Only With Your Eyes\" that don't even come close to taking a spot on one's inhead playlist. \"I'm a Vampire\" is pristine danceable camp and \"From a Dying Star\" is a catchy/haunting continuation of the extraterrestrial theme, but on most of these tracks, Merritt sounds too much like he's phoning it in; \"The World is a Disco Ball\" could be a Magnetic Fields sendup on some forthcoming collection of indie rock interpretations by Weird Al (for which working titles would certainly include No AlTernative, My Bloody Alentine and Al's Tomorrow Parties). So the spotlight's on Ewan, who fills Eternal Youth with serviceably average syntheticpop dioramas. The album is weighed down with subminute interlude filler, some of which (i.e. the almostTimbalandstyle skitterystrings of \"Viennese Lift\") are more interesting than the fulllength backdrops, but which still kill what turtleish momentum the song cycle manages to establish. From the evidence presented on Eternal Youth, Ewan sounds mostly like the bad influence kidnextdoor to Merritt, pushing him back from the slightly more organic sound of recent fare towards his (weaker) bleachedout keyboard symphony/guest vocalist early days. Maybe he's just taking some practice laps before turning on the Magnetic Field generator again, but regardless, noncompletists are better off waiting for the real deal. "}