{"label":" Tommy Boy / Famous Celebrity","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3231/homepage_large.c0805b2b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Fannypack","title":"So Stylistic","text":" Assuming your schedule isn't overfilled with important stuff like laundry, oil changes, and overtime, chances are you've heard or more likely heard about Fannypack's \"Cameltoe\". It's halfsmash, halfnovelty; its tight cartoon bootybeat leaps out of car speakers like a Grated \"Me So Horny\", but its radio play has more to do with the two teenage girls dropping lines like \"Is your crotch hungry, girl?/ Cause it's eating your pants.\" But we are not going to talk about \"Cameltoe\", which turns out to be one of the less interesting tracks on the fulllength So Stylistic (most interesting: \"Hey Mami\", which we'll get to in a second). Instead, we will review the storysofar of Fannypack, and then I will explain why I might be mining this little collection for mixtape fodder pretty heavily over the coming weeks. The Fannypack concept comes from a couple of DJs Matt Goias and \"Fancy\" who got frustrated with the big beatsperminute gulf between danceable house and slowloping hiphop hits, which please crowds but aren't as good for working up a sweat. Their gogetting solution to this problem is an intuitive mashup of a few things: rumpshaker club hiphop of the bootybouncing, systemrattling kind (it doesn't get made much anymore); the cleanlined robotic twitching of oldschool electro breakdance tracks, and the straighter rush and careful production of house and techno. All of which makes it sound a million times more complicated than it really is, but the fact that this stuff can be so straightforward and yet naggingly unique is its biggest gift: critics have hemmed and hawed about it and mostly just agreed that it reminds them of L'Trimm's memorable onehit \"Cars with the Boom\". Which brings us up to the next part. L'Trimm's Bunny and Tigra were two very young girls in snappy outfits who didn't rhyme so much as talk and preen and be awesome; Goias and Fancy, after enlisting redheaded indiechick Cat for the tracks they were working up, hit on something similar. Goias claims he just happened to hear 18yearold Jessibel Suthiwong screaming across a Brooklyn street one day and figured she was exactly what they needed; she and her even younger friend Belinda are here for lifesize bratty cool much more than awardwinning michandling. Soon enough, they were decked out in fab accessories Belinda's shoes versus Cat's scarf! and posing for the cover of this record. For the electro girlgroup W.I.T., producer Larry Tee found three microdressed prettygirls to pose, giggle, and flirt; Fannypack has the same New York fashionplate funtime vibe, only these kids are far more earnest than they are camp. And no, of course it's not a good record by the highmodernist rockboy standards of seriousness and emotional outpouring and whatnot. But neither, \"Cameltoe\" notwithstanding, is it just a bit of brainless fun. Between Goias and Fancy's remarkable droprolling bass science and the girls' brattyBrooklynite rhyming, the better singles on here wind up sounding like something unprecedented: a bootybass record for small children. There's just no other way to describe it: the guys' clever boings and beeps tend to be as cute as they are asstwitching, making the whole thing feel like the wouldbe soundtrack for a Saturdaymorning Salt 'n' Pepa cartoon. So between sampling both the Legendary Cold Crush Brothers and the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and between a bunch of talky tracks in which Jessibel makes fun of Fancy's shirt and Cat gets called a hippopotamusass, here are the bits I'd be leaving on mixtapes left and right if I weren't too lazy to make them: \"Hey Mami\". The obligatory buzzoff to scrubby guys turns out to be the best track on the record. It's the best beat, some deconstructed Latin piano tinkling over a superjumpy beat and some of that pervasive big, boingy bass rolling; it's also the best microphone tagteam, the moment where you suddenly suspect the girls' rhyming really is meant to be a focus. When a big crisp break and a load of scratching come in at the end, the Pavlovian response is to start it all over again, just for this: \"Hootin and hollerin/ Ring around the collar and/ This ain't Scores, and you ain't waving a dollar.\" \"So Stylistic\". The big oldschool breaking track, like if Grandmaster Flash got early access to mid90s subbass; the slinky darkness of the \"Push It\"style electro lead and the vocordered chorus hook are a perfect backdrop for this Fridaynight glamourgirl proclamation. Belinda's nails are done. So is her homework. \"Boom Boom\" and \"Do It To It\". Like the names indicate: here's where you get the stiff tickle and the robotic \"make that booty jerk\" commands. The former has the album's queasiest bass drops and most insistent choppedup dance instructions \"Booty up, booty down/ Work that booty all around\", yet it's somehow totally kidfriendly. The latter pairs some actual singing with Cat trying out the electro monotone voice Miss Kittin usually gets calls for. \"Things\". Not because it's really good, though it's a nice midalbum diversion: just thought you might want to know that this is the one where they sample the Yeah Yeah Yeah's \"Art Star\". For the purpose of an 8yearold's singalong about their likes and dislikes: yes to parties, candy, shopping and boys, no to school and bad weather. Between this and the preceding discussion of bunnies, the \"cute\" reaches a mildly discomforting peak. Not exactly a great victory in the albumoriented terms of solidity or consistency, though the other tracks aren't nearly \"bad.\" On the other hand, thank God for that: So Stylistic holds at least two of the most interesting tracks I've heard this year, and Fannypack have built a decent enough album around them. "}