{"label":" Turquoise Mountain","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/324/homepage_large.9ab174e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John O'Connor","artist":"Asteroid No. 4","title":"Honeyspot","text":" There must be a million bands like this playing the weddingbanquet circuit in Santa Fe and Albuquerque. How Asteroid No. 4 avoided that fate is a mystery (though being from Philadelphia probably helped), for there's very little on Honeyspot, their third fulllength album, that's even the least bit unique. In fact, the band exists almost entirely on the borrowed capital of the past. Departing from the 60s psychedelia and Syd Barrettinspired folk of their underachieving EP, Apple Street, they're now recycling the sounds of George Jones, early Dylan, Buffalo Springfield, The Flying Burrito Brothers and others into an inferior, onedimensional, revivalist pastiche that is to say, Son Volt Redux. All of the predictable elements are in place: banjo, steel guitar, mandolin, a harmonica that just will not shut up, female backing vocals, songs about preachers/booze/Godlessness, a Woody Guthrie rearrangement, even blurry and luminescent band photos in the liner notes. There's nothing inherently wrong with this type of nostalgia, but when it becomes as emulative and formulaic as it does on Honeyspot, it starts to seem like parody. Boring parody. Creativity, boldness, salience; all of these things are sacrificed to Asteroid No. 4's confused longings for the music of the past. \"Runnin' Away,\" with its sunshiny rhythm and distant piano plinks, is a nod to one of the band's many forebears, The Byrds, yet its repetitive chorus, \"Oooooeeeeee/ See me runnin' away,\" has all the forced, painful sentimentality of Boy scout camp singalongs. Sure, it's catchy alright, but give it a few listens and you'll be looking for the nearest smorepoker on which to impale yourself. \"Like Dogs\" is a blatant George Jones ripoff, complete with a weary, plodding drumbeat and mournful steel guitar. Frontman Scott Vitt even imitates Jones' voice as he sings, \"Well, some people say I'm wrong to do this to her/ But they don't know, we just don't see eye to eye.../ I prayed to the Lord to make things better/ But every night/ We bark and bite like dogs.\" Simply put, Jones deserves a better homage than this. By far the best song on the album, \"It's All OK\", is a short, docile instrumental that could nearly pass for a Nashville Skyline outtake. The delicate banjo fingerpicking feels genuinely inspired, providing a warm backdrop for the harmonica and steel guitar. Still, it's too indebted to its antecedents to amount to any more than a promising footnote. To be fair, that's not the only brief glimpse of promise here, but none ever stand out enough to save this album from its affected ruralism and tired, countryfied stylings. Explaining Asteroid No. 4's music, Vitt says, \"It's simple music for complicated times.\" Well, let it be said that simple music doesn't have to be this boring. "}