{"label":" Cherry Red","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3233/homepage_large.6626783f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Felt","title":"Stains on a Decade","text":" Vic Godard was the leader of the Subway Sect, one of the earliest and most vibrant UK punk bands. He adhered to the idea of a musician doing what he or she wants, regardless of talent or precision and, along with Johnny Rotten, was the most strident believer in the idea that punk could, should, and would kill rock 'n' roll. Tom Verlaine was the leader of Television, one of the earliest and most vibrant U.S. punk bands. He was an ornate guitarist and expressive vocalist with a fondness for French symbolist poetry, complex arrangements, and lengthy solos. These two iconic, eccentric, and disparate performers were the unlikely catalysts for Felt, one of the most enduring and oftoverlooked bands of the 1980s. Over the course of 10 years, Felt released 10 singles and 10 albums, as planned by the band's offbeat leader Lawrence (née Hayward). Over the course of their lifetime, Felt were nearly always out of step with UK pop. When Felt started, they made glistening, reverbheavy intricate pop while the rest of the underground was making either rhythmic and/or dark postpunk and the charts were full of clean, crisp New Pop. When shambolic, jangly, bedist indie became popular in the mid80s, Felt was making Hammond organheavy pop/rock. PostAcid House, Felt released a selection of cocktail jazz instrumentals á la Godard's own embrace of lounge music (Train Above the City) and a record of autumnal, organic beauty (Me and a Monkey on the Moon). Of course, they never reached a large audience. Between their shifting sounds and Lawrence's oblique lyrics, they often had a difficult time retaining even their core fans.  In the years since, Felt hasn't been explored with the same ferocity as many of their contemporaries because they never had a single album that was settled on as their classic, as proof of their genius and a succinct argument for their legend. Yet between Belle and Sebastian's Stuart Murdoch placing multiple Felt references in his lyrics and liner notes and the band's sound apparent in artists such as the Sea and Cake and the Clientele, the group has, increasingly, become a chic name to drop. Felt's legacy was also heightened in recent years by the unavailability of many of their key records. This year, Cherry Red along with Creation, one of the two label's the band recorded for during its lifetime is redressing the situation with a full reissue campaign, rereleasing all 10 of Felt's albums, including the long outofprint ones. To date, Crumbling the Antiseptic Beauty and The Splendour of Fear have been released. Next week, Felt's Cherry Red classic The Strange Idols Pattern and Other Short Stories and Ignite the Seven Cannons will be issued, with the rest of the band's catalog to follow later in the year. The reissue campaign was kicked off with a collection of their best singles, bsides, and EP tracks, Stains on a Decade, a rare compilation that serves both as the best introduction to a band's career and a vital addition to any fans' collection. Of the songs included all selected by Lawrence only two (\"Primitive Painters\" and \"Dismantled King is Off the Throne\") are also featured on the band's albums. In all, Stains on a Decade includes 11 tracks that won't appear in any other form throughout Cherry Red's reissue campaign, and single versions of another two \"Fortune\" and \"Sunlight Bathed the Golden Glow\" that are slightly different (and an improvement over) their more wellknown album renditions. In defense of the potentially superfluous tracks, no Felt singles collection would have been complete without \"Primitive Painters\", which features the Cocteau Twins' Elisabeth Fraser sharing vocals with Lawrence and fellow Twin Robin Guthrie as producer. It's an ambitious, shimmering, dramatic gem and is probably the band's bestknown recording. \"Dismantled King Is Off the Throne\" is one of Lawrence's keenest balances of selfdeprecating lyrics often expressions of hopelessness or fatalism colored by sheer boredom and original guitarist Maruice Deebank's sinewy work. \"Fortune\" is a relatively minimalist for the band's Deebankera work, but it's haunting nonetheless. In their earliest days, Felt was characterized by Deebank's decorative playing and a near total lack of bass. Lawrence's flat, affected vocals and cultivated, fey, witty lyrics gave the band both a sense of feminity/androgyny and an air of sophistication, like the Smiths if they were informed by the fine arts rather than Shelagh Delaney plays and 60s rock. Instead of Marresque riffs, the classically trained Deebank was a virtuoso with virtually no knowledge of or concern for modern rock an ironic compression of Lawrence's twin musical fascinations (Godard and Verlaine). The seven tracks included here from that era are all nearperfect slices of delicate, multilayered, cerebral pop. \"Sunlight Bathed the Golden Glow\", the aforementioned \"Primitive Painters\" and \"Dismantled King Is Off the Throne\", and the dark, despairing \"Penelope Tree\" are lamented lost classics. Deebank eventually departed the band one of many lineup changes for what was essentially Lawrence's project in 1986. Stains' first postDeebank track \"Ballad of the Band\" is an intriguing confession of the frustration and a curious revelation of the group's internal squabbles. Written as a reaction to Deebank's departure, Lawrence admits that \"I feel like giving in\" as he recounts the band's failed attempts at connecting with a wide audience and sarcastically blames himself for the group's lack of fame or money. After admonishing Deebank for his lack of commitment to the group and his hanging out with \"Jesus freaks,\" Lawrence airs he and Deebank's artistic differences by claiming: \"There's a place for abstract and there's a place for noise/ There's a place for every kind of sound.\" To add further insult, the song is dominated by the Hammond of thennew member Martin Duffy (Primal Scream), whose musical contributions replaced Deebank's just prior to arguably the band's strongest LP, 1986's Forever Breathes the Lonely Word. Despite that album's success, the Creation selections on Stains of a Decade aren't as strong as the Cherry Red/Deebank ones. Still they're a welcome unearthing of some long largely unavailable tracks. The vibrant, Hammondled \"I Will Die With My Head in My Hands\", bittersweet, acoustic \"There's No Such Thing As Victory\", and burbling synthpop of \"Space Blues\" highlight the postDeebank material. Despite Felt's internal struggles, the constant was Lawrence's lyrics and his search for a balance between reality and perception in the hope of discovering a life worth living. \"I hold out but there's no way of being what I want to be,\" he sighs on \"Primitive Painters\". \"You're trying much too hard to make your world seem like a dream\" Lawrence scolds on \"Sunlight Bathed the Golden Glow\", but he's more often resigned to seeking a dreamlike escape from his life and himself: \"I was lonely until I found the reason/ The reason was me.\" With that sense of crippling selfdeprecation sometimes delivered with a wink, other times with his head in his hands Lawrence's pop world wasn't always as inviting as his band's melodies suggested, but it remains captivating. More than a decade after splitting, Felt remains vital part of the UK's music history and an indie pop benchmark, and the vital Stains on a Decade, is the first Felt collection to include all of the group's unique twists and sounds. As the compilation's title suggests, Lawrence is still dabbling in irony and selfloathing in equal measure. Thankfully, though, some stains are permanent. "}