{"label":" Attacknine","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3235/homepage_large.c5c02b7f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Freescha","title":"Whats Come Inside of You","text":" If the more indiecentric styles of electronic music chinstroking head music or evocative slices of arrested development seem to mirror a couple of the primary strains of indie guitarbased music, it's probably no accident. After all, they're generally after the same type of music listeners, all seeking the same core emotions, albeit from different sounds. Freescha, the Californiabased duo of Nick Huntington and Michael McGroarty, make that second kind of indie electronic pop: the sort of warm, melodic, almost twee sound that sells well at Darla.com, and is favored by the majority of the Morr and City Centre Offices rosters.Whats Come Inside of You (sic) is Freescha's third fulllength (following 2000's Kids Fill the Floor and 2002's Slower Than Church Music), available from their selfrun Attacknine label. Perhaps less distinctive than many of their peers, Freescha is taking slight steps away from the organic, clean sounds perfected by Boards of Canada and, more recently, Carpark Records' Casino Versus Japan, with whom the California duo recently shared a spot on that label's Wanna Buy a Crapark? compilation. Freescha is still primarily making fluid, midtempo, synthesizerbased sounds, but their latest effort is boosted by primarily 4/4 beats, a further emphasis on overt hooks, and more compact and digestible song structures. The album's provocative, retrograde art suggests a more decadent direction, citing 70s porn, Ming the Merciless, rollerskating, and boom boxes as suggested inspirations. For the most part, however, that seems like a bit of red herring. Despite the nearelectro throb of opener \"Rinky Dink\" which starts off like a bouncy filterdisco version of \"Crocodile Rock\" the record quickly settles into more traditionally ambient glitchpop patterns. Like BoC, Freescha dress their sounds in a lot of delay and echo, using dub as a production inspiration more than aiming directly for its spatial qualities. Freescha retains the waterlogged, reverbheavy feel of electronic dub, but their BoCstyle analogue toy box nostalgia suggests they are clouding time and memory rather than simply drum and bass. Vocals are used scarcely and, when employed, are buried under echo or treated with a vocoder, making any words essentially indistinguishable. The sensation of communication is more important here than the message. The most distinctive of the vocal passages are snippets of heavy breathing and erotic moaning. They're more overtly sexual than sensual as the cover art  as well as song titles such as \"Come Good\" and \"Lover Function\" suggests. It's the tracks that most tactfully toe those lines between the seedy and sentimental that are the most rewarding, mostly notably the understated, slowly unfolding \"Baby Maker\" or \"Come Good,\" which like much of the secondhalf of the album is a deadringer for Air. And therein lies part of the problem. With simplistic rhythms and uncomplicated melodies, Freeshca are certainly crafting easygoing, inviting sounds, but are trying to tempt us down very familiar paths. "}