{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3239/homepage_large.eac7d260.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Frog Eyes","title":"The Folded Palm","text":" It's too late for Frog Eyes to change their name to Wolf Eyes, but in the past year, the band's frontman, Carey Mercer, has turned spitty, snarly, and lupine. Where he once sounded like David Bowie, he now seems to channel Tim Buckley he's no longer a singer so much as a yelping, rasping, contorting spectacle. Mercer's throaty kabuki made both Frog Eyes' limited, acoustic LP Ego Scriptor and his solo album, Light Flows the Putrid Dawn, so thoroughly spooky that few listeners could digest them without a seventhtrack stretch. Unsurprisingly, Xiu Xiu comparisons have steadily surfaced. While Jamie Stewart has become subtler, more musical and less vaudevillian, Mercer is becoming flashier, extramusical, and terrifically affected. They're moving in opposite directions, but both men have arrived at the same crossroad expect a Frog Eyes/Xiu Xiu seveninch split any day now. The rest of Frog Eyes have always proved an excellent supporting cast to Mercer's Lear. Their buggy leader has the hooks and crazy headshake thing, so the band simply focuses on dutiful playing, giving both The Bloody Hand and The Golden River an unearthed lostscrollsofGallus glow which never would have materialized had the Frog Eyes worker bees left Queen Mercer and squirreled up their own private honey pots. And yet, there now seems to have been a bit of a revolt. Frog Eyes' newest effort, The Folded Palm, is at times complete anarchy: Mercer chews up his own melodies and spits them out with nary a tone left, drummer Melanie Campbell plays her most violent set to date, piano man Grayson Walker insists on spelling out chords that mirror the band leader's, and bassist Michael Rak is either transgressing well into guitar and key ranges or competing with their volume. That's not to say the band isn't playing together as usual, they're tight as hell. What they're doing is matching Mercer bite for bite and catcall for caterwaul, like a fourheaded dog feasting on the same coineyed meal. As a result, The Folded Palm is the band at its loudest and most menacing. To say the album \"starts off strong\" is only half the story the opening threesong suite is a fucking firebomb. Campbell calls the band to arms with a tricky stomp and a crack at her trashcan cymbal, and a barrage of sound named \"The Fence Feels Its Post\" follows her command. Mercer's howls barely break through the mix, and when they do, they tend to the frantic and imagistic. The song bleeds into \"The Akhian Press\", a more musical, less theatrical return to past Frog Eyes tracks such as The Golden River's \"World's Greatest Concertos\". \"I Like Dot Dot Dot\" is the shortest of the opening three tracks (which is saying something when you consider that the longest is only 1:52), and the closest Frog Eyes come to punk on this album it's all fast strums, headless chicken deliveries, and Mercer's gorgeous choruspedal lick. \"The Akhian Press\" and \"I Like Dot Dot Dot\" debuted earlier this year on Ego Scriptor, but the fuller The Folded Palm recordings make those versions seem like mere footnotes. The rest of The Folded Palm shares in the tripartite opener's fury the best songs smartly stay short of the threeminute line, and some don't even stretch over two. It's a shame that, since the band has diffused song emphasis from the Mercer core and kicked up the energy, the truly memorable melodies that made each of The Golden River and The Hand a success have trouble finding their place amidst the new jitter. Whereas substance used to take precedence over style, Mercer's theatrics now often obscure potentially beautiful lines. \"New Soft Motherhood Alliance\" one of the most successful songs on Mercer's solo album now drowns in its own cheap makeup and gaudy Meat Loaf melodrama. Frog Eyes have played live more often in 2004 than in years past, and The Folded Palm benefits from the band's wealth of onstage energy. Naturally, their yelps and instrumental overloads work better when they are not only heard but also seen and felt; yet it will be exciting to discover how Frog Eyes makes good on the implicit commitment they make on The Folded Palm to mirroring their live and recorded personas. For the time being, three solid records in one year will more than suffice. "}