{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13370/homepage_large.b4277f39.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Fiery Furnaces","title":"EP","text":" Okay, I'm done being a nice guy about this: If you don't like Blueberry Boat, I don't like you. It's no longer a matter of taste, other than the fact that I have good taste, whereas you, Fiery Furnaceshater, do not. Don't have time to take in the full sweeping grandeur of Blueberry Boat's 80 minutes? I have no respect for your calendar priorities. To those who find their multiplemovement symphonies and keyboardfetish arrangements overcooked, I feel only loathing, utter disdain, and approximately one tablespoon of pity! And for the few of you that cannot handle the frenetic ubermedley that is a Fiery Furnaces live set, I want to make provocative documentary films about your inept and offensive taste and take them on the festival circuit. But if my depraved fanboy rants and threats don't convince you, this here spartanlytitled EP just might. Dare you infidels bear witness as this collection of the Furnaces' assorted table scraps easily outshines most bands' main course? Not content to merely isolate the most accessible tune from their long players and ship a CDR out to campus hundredwatts, Eleanor and Matthew Friedberger are prolific vinylpressers, releasing new or reinterpreted material betwixt and in conjunction with their albums. EP does the Soulseek virtual cratedigging for Furnaces devotees, collecting most of these odds and sods while wisely catching amnesia on their lesscollectible Clash and Fall covers. I know of some misguided souls who find that the accoutrements of Blueberry Boat's threering concept album circus overwhelm any songcraft talents the siblings Friedberger originally exhibited on Gallowsbird's Bark, and for these people my hatred burns only slightly less bright. Nevertheless, EP starts off with a trilogy of tunes that should lay this ridiculous claim to rest, restoring their most recent single to its original director's cut. Running a little over 10 minutes, the suite simultaneously reminds the doubters of the Furnaces' considerable pop abilities, while not compromising on the Casio blitzes or thematic density of more recent work.  If \"Single Again\", in a slightly expanded take, remains a bit cold in with its jumprope chant refrain and stiff drums, reinstated bridge \"Here Comes the Summer\", is the perfect thaw, showcasing the duo's deft hand with electronic rhythms, guitar pedals, and swooning melodies. \"Summer\" seasonally segues into \"Evergreen\", the band's sweetest ballad to date, and the first that comes close to making the Carpenters comparisons more than just commentary on the Friedberger's slightly creepy sibling dynamics.  There's enough to digest in that opening salvo to fulfill the effort's modest title, but there's still a halfhour smattering of Bsides and remakes for dessert. A few (\"Duffer St. George\", \"Smelling Cigarettes\") swerve towards the ADD collage style of Blueberry Boat's longer tracks, telling similarly intricate stories of infidelity, drinking, and gallivanting around London. Matthew's imaginary Cockney accent takes the lead more often than on the fulllengths, whether on the tonguetwisting sea shanty of \"Cousin Chris\" or the Bowie pianorock of \"Sing for Me\".  Meanwhile, the complete reconstruction of \"Tropical Iceland\" featured here is a taste of the band's Dylanlike compulsion to perennially revise the back catalog, expanding the singsongy original in every direction, right down to a wonderfully gratuitous backwardsvocal verse. In the end, it's perhaps this quality of perpetual evolution, best exemplified by their delirious live shows, that has me drawing Fiery Furnaces logos on my AllStars few other bands of the indie world seem to have such mercurial aspirations. EP then comes off like a quick appendix to the band's work so far, concentrating their strengths in parts while elsewhere lovingly dumping the stray ideas that may not fit into their next conceptual flight. That it still manages to skirt the hazards of being a forfan'sonly release only deepens my stalkerlove, not to mention the accompanying abhorrence for all who don't see the light. Honestly, how do you people wake up in the morning; you pathetic, mouthbreathing [the remaining 1,000 words of diatribe deleted by Pitchfork editors, who cordially apologize to the readership for Mr. Mitchum's unfortunate outburst Ed.]     "}