{"label":" Ryko","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3246/homepage_large.1d1fc59f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"The Fire Theft","title":"Fire Theft","text":" This could get ugly: here I am, faced with the crucial task of criticizing a set of musicians whose work, for all intents and purposes, comprised \"indie rock\" as I first came to know it. The name Sunny Day Real Estate still triggers all sorts of fantastic images: I studied Latin every morning on the bus while listening to Diary; LP2 was the first album I would buy at Philly's Spaceboy Records (which thereafter had a monopoly on my time and earnings until I moved out of the city); the review of How It Feels to Be Something On, for better or worse, was my first encounter with Pitchfork. And though I'd be unlikely to count any of that band's albums among my alltime favorites, I can't help but feel like Jeremy Enigk has a lot to do with my degree in Classics, my current writing projects, and the bulk of my record collection. After Sunny Day's second (and final) demise in 2000, I assumed Enigk would release another pleasant solo album, or maybe regroup with a new cast entirely. But in fact, Sunny Day simply regrouped again, as The Fire Theft, sans guitarist Dan Hoerner. Fair enough! This was good news, so far as I could tell, and I was positively thrilled to see what developments the sound of the band, now reunited with original bassist Nate Mendel, had undergone. Maybe they'd even shake off their prog phase! Unfortunately, The Fire Theft actually sees the band indulging in ersatz approximations of Yes and Genesis' epic odysseys much more deeply. The problem isn't so much in the band's decision to branch out that, I respect but that their moody, foreboding ambient segues fail to translate into much of interest for the listener. I can dig ambient preludes on rock records if they have a sense of direction, lend weight to album's overall mood, or merge nicely with the tracks they're sandwiched between, but these sorely lack originality all are nearly identical in mood and scope and seem to have little to do with the songs into which they inevitably segue. The record opens on two of these: the first sounds ripped from one of the quieter moments of Moby's Play; the second (tellingly titled \"Waste Time Segue\") is a standard drone squeezed from a heavily reverbed piano. The overuse of this ambient gimmick is also indicative of a larger problem, which is that the band seems terrified of personal conviction. Even when The Fire Theft are purportedly kicking out the jams, the songs feel halfhearted and vaporous. (To give you an idea, there are more songs in waltztime here than I can ever remember hearing on any album, crossgenre.) On tracks like \"Waste Time\", the band carefully regurgitates all the 80s rock tropes taught by local music store teachers, sporting all the traits of a wedding band \"stylizing\" a Police song. \"Rubber Bands\" sounds most calculatedly young/hip, featuring a Braidlike bsection with diminished chords and pasty funk lines devoid of the rhythmic cleveries and emotional investment. And it only gets worse. The guitar solos of which there are more than a few are laden with the ostentatious bombast of any hair metal band you never liked, replacing sincerity with slick chops and bloodless effects. The drumming, whose consistency is both a virtue and a vice, is at all times precise but never inventive, content to stay predictably on the beat and bang a few toms for extra anthem power when necessary. Going after Enigk's lyrics, meanwhile, is like playing an armless man in golf, but let it suffice that the following lyrics are wailed melodramatically: \"Lift back the veil that hides you from me\"; \"How can you change your mind after all the dreams that we once shared?\"; and my personal favorite, \"It's the simple things that are hard to grasp.\"The Fire Theft is ultimately saved from total mediocrity by two songs. One of them is \"Summertime\", a (surprise!) waltz which could draw comparison to Neutral Milk Hotel with a budget. Here, Enigk gives one of the album's only convincing vocal performances over acoustic guitar, delicate string arrangements and an occasional breath of fresh electronic air. And the closing \"Sinatra\" is The Fire Theft's most realized offering, showcasing the extent of Enigk's vocal range, tasteful dynamic changes, and the most integrated string arrangements on the album. Sadly, the album fails to convince beyond these toobrief moments; worse, it never tries to, lazily substituting ageold gimmicks for actual, palpable spirit. Ironically, a desperate attempt to escape such listless vanity is what drove me to Sunny Day Real Estate in the first place. "}