{"label":" Morphius","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3251/homepage_large.1958ada5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Frenemies","title":"Friendship","text":" Frenemies is the solo project of Chris Freeland, drummer for that furiously algebraic band that spawned a thousand collegetown lessers, the Oxes. Which means that Frenemies crawls across the hallowed sod lain by past drummer branchouts, i.e. the careers of the Foo Fighters, Sparrow, Phil Collins, Gary Young, Charlie Watts, and Ringo Starr. Those who prefer to describe the Oxes' output in the lingo of carporn (\"high octane,\" \"full throttle\") should be warned that Frenemies' music is an ounce more fanciful and diverse than that of Freeland's other combo. The weirdness of Baltimore informs this disc's tonelessness, spontaneity, and incoherence. The listener imagines the scene there as a clandestine commune; bands must sneak into their stuffy art spaces, darting past Orioles scalpers, tiptoeing around urban chickens, and creeping past the corner bars where a Redskins doorag can either get you beaten up or felt up. How can such duress not lead to arrested development, or worse, battingcage hissyfits? How do Baltimore artists grow past a fascination with wigs, boogers, and bicycles? This album's title track wails, tellingly, \"I'm not a friend, why should I be/ I got all my friends in Baltimore here with me,\" and later, \"I've got all my friends from high school here with me.\" Friendship drifts like a nitrous zeppelin, from afterschool punk, to noodly artflux, to interesting antirap, to splendid lonerpop. I assume that Freeland designed every sound here, except for the happyhour choir parts, the female vox that kick off \"Moving Day\", and the rhymes of Bow & Arrow (though I have to believe that Cex, listed as a \"Frenemy\" in the liner notes, served as a consultant for the heinous flow on the \"hiphop\" tracks which, to their credit, always feature elegantly pimpy key loops). A creative mania compensates for Freeland's halfhearted genresplicing; fans of the onetake (preGeffen) Beck may fawn, as could proponents of Space Needle's analog blasts and ironic wanderscapes. \"Big 4 You\" is the funkiest keeper, about vowing to disinter up a buriedalive companion, even if the speaker's fingernails break. \"Love\", meanwhile, is the disc's best manifestation of postTortoise xeroxjazz, pumping like an autistic opus penned by Jaco Pastorius' ghost through the lovable contraption from both Short Circuits. Baltimore is America's cluttered attic, and Freeland's freeform songs are tossing some of the junk into the sideyard. The weak singing limits the proceedings somewhat; think Callaci from Refrigerator, or Beaujon from Eggs. The Rapture and Hot Hot Heat, et cetera, may be getting the dancefloor scuffed with their rangeless frontmen, but the persistence of Thom Yorke and the emergence of The Darkness' Justin Hawkins are raising the bar beyond even Freddy Mercury's operatic stuntpipes. \"Step 1\" may offer DFAworthy oldschool skreeback, but this release knows that it's ultimately as ethereal as SARS. Frenemies just want to hang out. "}