{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3253/homepage_large.f77f28e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Anton Fier","title":"Dreamspeed/Blind Light (1992-1994)","text":" There can really only be one strong complaint lobbed against this collection. The cover art, despite the utterly enrapturing beige vapor emanating from Anton Fier's bleary eyes and blearier cigarette, desperately cries out for a sophisticated lingerie vixen reading French poetry on a chaise longue somewhere in the background. It's already torn between channeling the French newwave and solitary meditation, and it seems unjust to deny the audience that last image before they listen to an album as seductive, perplexing, serenely droning, and effortlessly cool as anything released in the last decade. Anton Fier, one of the more underrated drummers of the New York jazz/rock scene, has had a remarkable career. He was the drummer for The Feelies, The Lounge Lizards, and Pere Ubu, as well as a session musician for everyone from Jeff Buckley to Yoko Ono. In addition, he found the time to found one of the classic \"almostclassic\" nonbands of the 80s and 90s, The Golden Palominos. The twodisc Dreamspeed/Blind Light (19921994) compiles his two alluring, eternally outofprint solo albums recorded in the midst of one of the Palominos' most fertile period. 1992's Dreamspeed would probably be entertaining enough if the lineup just stood there, staring at the walls: It features the usual Fier cohorts (Bill Laswell, Matt Stein), and adds Parliament/Funkadelic's Bootsy Collins, Otomo Yoshihide collaborator/poet Phew, Blonde Redhead guitarist Makino Kazu, and that great freakshow Zelig, Buckethead. Evidently, when you mix these colors, you get fearsomely confident tablasmashing, lipsticksmacking, luminously malefic libidivertigo. While any clumsily monolingual listeners will have difficulty parsing the whole talkinginJapanese thing Phew employs, let's hope, for everyone's benefit, that she's discussing the finer points of stealthily stabbing Mafiosi and the prostitutes that love them. This is dark, devious music as terrifying and romantic as Blue Lines, and as bewitching and angelic as anything the Palominos ever released. Who cares if the song titles deal with the Book of Jude and a Heidegger tome? This music should be scoring British gangster movies or, at the very least, trouncing Coldplay in the contest to see what music they should play before people hook up on The Real World: San Diego. This shouldn't dissuade anyone looking for experimentation: the title track develops Phew's impossibly arousing voice into some horrible Mengele experiment involving the voice box, a baby's tears, angry seagulls, and angrier dominatrices. Other songs pile heapings of trashcan drums and grating woodchippers on top of Zen waves of beatific placidity. The seemingly endless layering of Phew's vocal tracks start falling like a rainstorm, and pendulous guitar slithers out of silence with Doppler effects no mortal man could experience. For all the digital effects, the sopomoit'snot selfsampling, the looped vocals, this is immensely organic music; it basically drips all the vital liquids we hold so dear in a plangent mess all over your ears. It's drubbed, dubbed, drifting music at the pace of smoking cigarettes between midnight breakfast and sex. 1994's Blind Light stocks up on the members of Pureera Palominos and, pretty obviously, it sounds very similar to that album. This is far from a bad thing. The masterstroke is the title track, beginning with filtered pseudogabba, launching into smoking jughuffing, drunken Caribbean organs, and lumbering 12strings. Elsewhere, the continuity of Dreamspeed is dispensed with in favor of startling periods of silence. \"Midnight\" gets some 60s soul momentum going, even putting some crowd cheers in, and right when the drums should be fading in, they fade out, which isn't even possible. On \"Clairvoyance of Self\", the song stops for a good two or three seconds any time another instrument or effect is added. Take comfort in the fact that it would be seamless without these stops, and it's seamlessly seamed with them. You win, you win. You lose, you win. Either way, you win. As with anything unavoidably beautiful and often lowkey, there are moments that you might hear over a Starbucks speaker system. My advice: get a discount card and order a mocha. Then have sex with everyone in the room on top of velvet drapery. Then go to NYC to go see Fier jumpstart his career and reassume the reins of gorgeous atmospheric music: after many years of alleged retirement, he has recently performed with John Zorn and other old friends at Tonic in December. After two hours of this, even the lung cancer ward will be smoking. "}