{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3258/homepage_large.8cdb30ab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Henry Flynt / The Insurrections","title":"I Don't Wanna","text":" The 21st century has been pretty good to Fluxus fiddler Henry Flynt, which is funny, as the four decades previous yielded but one cruddy, dubbed cassette from a gallery show in 1981. After Alan Licht ranked it in his Minimalist Top Ten, that tape a ferocious wail titled You Are My Everlovin', which slashed like Tony Conrad and Eck Robertson in a straightrazor fight finally made it to the CD age. From that point onward, numerous other Flynt releases have appeared, documenting a powerful and prolific artist, and revealing a moonshine and meth to his madness.Following two excellent explorations of Flynt's obsession with the demented drone behind mountain music on his Back Porch Hillbilly Blues series, the Locust label digs up dead weathermen from the basement tapes for their fifth release by the man, documenting a (lone?) rehearsal from 1966. Though he's more renowned these days for his bowpulling and unfettered dancing, he'd just learned guitar by way of the Velvets' Lou Reed at the time of I Don't Wanna, and was rolling tape with a drummer/sculptor named Walter De Maria. Soon forgoing the crackling thunder of the drums, De Maria would go on to gain international fame with his Lightning Field sculpture in New Mexico.Whether you hear his strumming patterns as inept or outsider, goony or genius, Henry Flynt sucks in all aspects of time for his sound. He gets that chilling thwack of Dock Boggs' bailingwire blues from the 20s, the Fugsfrenzy and Godzidiocy of the Lower East Side in the mid60s, and anticipates Bob Log III's 90s catgut caterwauling. The sneer and stumble that constitute protest songs like \"Uncle Sam Do\" and \"Goodby Wall St.\" tremble outside of time. De Maria, far from the cleanliness of the gallery scene, pounds and splats in the muck, his ideas of dumped garbage can as snare drum still heard in the trashy thud of Gibson Brothers, Pussy Galore, and the In the Red label's entire catalog.With the shuffling rhythm of \"Sky Turned Red\" or the almostcompetent keyboards and bass that join in for \"Corona Del Mar\", you could mistake the duo's basement space for a juke joint, just as the stomp of \"Missionary Stew\" would pass as a Junior Kimbrough tune, were he backing up The Cramps' Lux Interior. Over some wiggling squalls of saxophone on \"Jumping\", Flynt strums out clumps of surfreverb that suggest more than just a single idea of protest. Closer \"Dreams Away\" is even further out, a spindizzy solo on guitar that fidgets and twists before speeding into a blur of white light meaning it's quintessential Flynt. "}