{"label":" Telegraph","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3259/homepage_large.989c4b57.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Neil Robertson","artist":"Finishing School","title":"Destination Girl","text":" It's hard to talk about sunshine when you can't even cast a shadow. You've put off reviewing this record for weeks; left it at the back of your mind while trembling through this stubborn, clinging winter. When you're staring at a sicknote sun that only appears through breaks in the black clouds; with waves of rain that harass you on the slow trudge home, the last sound you want to hear is some tweepop poem about daybreak in Santa Monica. I have Joy Division box sets for days like these; do I need to listen to Sandy fucking Denny? Which is lazyassed journalism: Why should sunshine dictate whether a record's great or not? Shouldn't the hardened rock hack, given a gram of coke and a poisoned pen, carve out some scenestealing review of Pet Sounds even in the cold grip of a nuclear winter? Maybe. But maybe half the trick of music journalism is empathy; of leaving yourself open to the blues and moods that shaped the sounds under your radar. How can you say if an album's any good if you can't even tell where it's coming from? But then, maybe some albums just aren't worth the effort. Being the coyvoiced, synthfiddling, fairhaired minstrel behind both The Essex Green and Ladybug Transistor, in recent years Finishing School's Sasha Bell has lent her lemonscent vocals to some divinely arranged, pillowsoft 60s pop. However, when removed from the cynicism and nosebled sincerity that stopped such projects from simply being a bore of psychedelic pastiche, her first solo outing seems like a rash of formulaic sweetness, without the strength of song to see it through. Too often on \"Destination Girl\", Bell revels in bynumbers arrangements. Take how opening track \"Reno\" surprises no one with its cushion of cheap synths, baroque strings, spiked surfguitar, gonowhere lyrics and Bell's offkey, adolescent croon and proceeds to repeat the formula throughout the rest of the record. All of this would be less jarring if her melodies had the kind buoyant, sunlit gleam as her other projects; but here they seem weightless, drab, and lacking the sparks of grace and passion that permeated the last Ladybug album. Despite its damning flaws, there's still a strange charm to this record. At her best, Sasha Bell's songs are like a schoolgirl crush; listen to the ditzy lovestung waltz of the title track (\"I feel like somebody you wouldn't even look at twice\"), or when her keyboard line mimics the heartbeat flutter of a melody on \"Morning Light\",' and you find that however frustrating this record may be, some of these homemade reveries still have a genuinely touching warmth about them. Sunshine or not, what we're left with is an album of mixed fortunes; at once graceful, passive, charming and sunburnt, it is also plagued with a predictability and deficiency of ideas that drag it into a mediocre, selfrepeating quagmire. It's hard to talk about records when they can't even cast a shadow. Sometimes you've just got to draw the lines yourself. "}