{"label":" 4AD / BMG","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3266/homepage_large.68afbc4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"50FootWave","title":"Golden Ocean","text":" Lyrics you expect from a Kristin Hersh record: \"Lastgasp nymphomania/ Somehow desexualized/ I'm gonna wash that man right out of my head/ And soap him into my eyes.\" Lyrics you might not expect from a Kristin Hersh record: \"You know what?/ Shut the fuck up!\" It's not even the words themselves that are surprising there even at her most misleading, there's a directness to Hersh's lyrics, a plainspoken candor that grounds even the most disparate imagery she can conjure. The surprise lies in how she leans hard on that \"fuck\" line. Usually, such profane offerings sneak out the side of her mouth. Here, Hersh throws her whole body behind those four words, belting them out while the music gathers mass and speed like a cartoon snowball. In all fairness, Golden Ocean isn't much different from recent Throwing Muses records (or the EP that preceded the disc, which shares three tracks with this album). Where 50 Foot Wave distance themselves from Hersh's other work is in the volume department. Say what you want about the quality of the record, but there's no denying that it is ridiculously loud squealing and slamming all over the place. If there's a brief eddy in a song, it's going to give way to a tidal wave. If the song already seems like its heading toward a noisy conclusion, don't be surprised if they doubletime it. The catalyst for this slight change is most likely the drummer, Rob Ahlers. Unlike Hersh's usual drummer (longtime Muse David Narcizo), Ahlers eschews subtlety and polyrhythms for fullout, ballstothewall banging. He barrels through this entire album, and it's up to the other two Wavers to keep up. For Hersh, this means bellowing at the top of her lungs for most of the record, subsuming any prettiness in her voice for the scratchy oldwoman's yell hiding behind quickcutting couplets like, \"Your voice has a singsong quality/ And bones were made to be broken.\" It's fantastic stuff at its best, the innate catchiness of Hersh's writing gets a shot in the arm from her cavalier vocals and musical caterwauling. One of Hersh's former labelmates posited that motherhood equaled mental freeze. No doubt said labelmate never envisioned Kristin Hersh, mother of four, entering her 21st year as a professional musician, leading a group that runs laps around most rock bands. "}