{"label":" Fearless","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/328/homepage_large.777188be.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"At the Drive-In","title":"This Station Is Non-Operational","text":" In seven years, At the DriveIn rose from basements in El Paso, Texas and tours with singledigit attendance to being the stars of the Grand Royal label, solely on the merit of an orgiastic live show and wordofmouth. Then, just as they began to approach commercial success, they dissolved without a fuss not even offering their fans a reason why and immediately split into two separate bands that rode the wave of their impact. The point of releasing an At the DriveIn anthology now seems obvious: A convenient and tidy package for lazier consumers would not only benefit them commercially, but could double as a career overview for Mars Volta fans curious about the more modest beginnings of their favorite progrock behemoths. This Station Is NonOperational ignores both routes. Not quite a bestof collection, some of the band's strongest songs (and indeed, even some singles, like \"Invalid Litter Dept.\") are ignored by a tracklist that offers a snapshot of the band's artistic growth, from classact emo to muscular modern rock. That's a kick in the pants if you're looking to drop cash on one comprehensive ATDI release, but anyone with a broadband connection and a computer can create their own hits comp; This Station aims to be a retrospective in the true sense of the word, while also providing enough extras to make it a worthwhile package for longtime fans. Tracks 111 provides a tidy time capsule of the band's seven years together; the remaining seven cuts give us a peek at the band's influences and creative growing pains. Culled primarily from singles and split 7inches, the latter portion of the disc is comprised of two covers, one remix, one live favorite, and three Bsides. The Smiths' \"This Night Has Opened My Eyes\" is a surprising choice for the band, but they play it straight, more or less, with only some added dualguitar interplay and a touch of distortion. The compilation ends on a lighthearted note with another curious choice, Pink Floyd's \"Take Up Thy Stethoscope and Walk\" perhaps an early sign of their itch for more intricate songcraft. As for the four Bsides, there's little worth seeking out, and two of them are particularly unrewarding: \"Incentardis\" thrashes hard but never finds a hook, while \"Doorman's Placebo\" is basically a limp emo track lacking rhythm and energy. The other two are no more engaging \"Autorelocator\" is a plodding, directionless electronic experiment, and the Latch Bros. remix of \"Rascuache\" turns the band into a dubinflected version of Cornershop but are mildly compelling curios, as they feel like necessary missteps leading to the subtle electronic touches of the band's later sound. Of course, these tracks weren't included in this package to serve as revelations; they're simply footnotes to the story told by the first 11 tracks. Whether through label differences or the band's own will, At the DriveIn's earliest EPs and first fulllength, Acrobatic Tenement, are completely unrepresented here (unless you count the BBC performance of \"Initiation\" tacked onto the end). \"Fahrenheit\" and \"Picket Fence Cartel\" are taken from the El Gran Orgo EP, and pick up on the emo blueprint laid out by a handful of mid80s Dischord bands (most notably Rites of Spring), but add sharp, unpredictable rhythms and exuberant shoutalong hooks, all led by Cedric Bixler's unmistakable Ozzyesque caterwauls. The four songs taken from the economical In Casino Out continue in the same vein, though the band stretches the formula a bit further. \"Lopsided\" features galloping rhythms and clean guitar that proved the band were equally potent with the distortion dialed down, and \"Pickpocket\" never relents from its streamlined thrashing. \"Chanabra\" adds bongos to one of the disc's most aggressive choruses, hinting at future recordings. And \"Napoleon Solo\" is a whisper/scream tribute to two friends of the band, fellow musicians from their hometown of El Paso, who died in a car accident while ATDI was on tour. ATDI hit their stride on the Vaya EP, and two of its songs are included here. Coming off their previous records, \"Metronome Arthritis\" feels like the work of a different band entirely: Atmospheric guitar scrapes add static to a slow, druggy groove, and meandering guitar lines precede a crunching chorus led by Bixler's truecrime paranoia (\"What if forensics finds the answer?/ What if they stole my fingerprints?/ Where did I leave my book of matches?/ We'll find you...\") and a highly melodic guitar lead. \"198d\", on the other hand, stretches the whisper/scream dynamic to its breaking point, squeezing out a final drop of surprise. But after sharpening their skills and working with numetal guru Ross Robinson and Andy Wallace, the songs on Relationship of Command are what thrust them into the mainstream. The inclusion of their biggest single, \"OneArmed Scissor\", is a nobrainer. It's almost a summation of everything that made ATDI great: the ticktock rhythmic interplay and quivering bass of the verses flashed their chops as musicians, and its infamous stop/start chorus riff and shouted \"cut ahway!\" hook that could still slice through the airwaves today. It took the cock out of cockrock but retained the molargrinding testosterone, while finding room for emo histrionics, a psychedelic detour, and a great punk rock scream from the whole band. \"NonZero Possibility\" puts mood over matter, and though it's a successful diversion with diverse instrumentation, I'd take nearly any track on Relationship of Command over it. Perhaps it's an apt finale, being the closing track on their final album. \"Enfilade\" is more like it, merging the band's disparate influences perfectly: The ominous Cureinspired rock and snapping drum machines of the verses (not unlike the opening of \"Arc Arsenal\") with more of Bixler's cloakanddagger lyrics, and a bongodriven detour that shows off drummer Tony Hijada's diversity and nods to the group's Latin influences a calmbeforethestorm just before a perfect fistpumping, shoutalong chorus. While the performances on Relationship of Command were overwhelmingly reckless, At the DriveIn's goforbroke attitude cut both ways: Guitarist Jim Ward was quoted as saying, \"As soon as one of us gets tired of doing this, if it's in the middle of [an] interview or in the middle of a tour, that's it. We're done.\" And on the verge of conquering radio and selling nearly a million copies of that record, they kept their promise. \"Relentless\" wasn't even the word for their touring schedule since forming in 1994 their work ethic was certifiably insane, as they didn't even take a day off for the tragedy interpreted in \"Napoleon Solo\", and cancelled only two dates after their own van accident in 2000. The lyrics of \"OneArmed Scissor\" paraphrase the isolation of the band's first few tours together while foreshadowing their end even one of its ominous lyrics make for this compilation's title. The lyrics on Relationship of Command might be oblique, but a message isn't hard to discern; after a nonstop sevenyear tour/record/tour schedule, each song seems like a desperate S.O.S. Now that the dust has settled, the fans have moved on, and its members have recast themselves in their new bands, the press has readily accepted At the DriveIn offshoots Sparta as being \"accessible\" and The Mars Volta \"difficult\", but the push/pull between the two extremes within the songs on This Station Is NonOperational is seamless. This anthology begs the question: Why should rock fans have to settle for one or the other? "}