{"label":" Upper Class / Muckamuck Produce","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3270/homepage_large.7a6ee4b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Food for Animals","title":"Scavengers EP","text":" When does a piece of experimental music move beyond unlistenable noise, past the point of defiant curiosity, to the realm of unparalleled genius? Hard to quantify, even for the most mathematical at heart, but you know it when you hear it. Certain elements must be accounted for most importantly, an emotional ballast is essential to keep any twangy wigouts from veering into selfindulgent, alienating miasmic slop. In hiphop a genre defined primarily by its rigid rhythmic orientation the channels of experimentation are actually a bit more open, though maybe somewhat more predictable. That is, fuck with rhythm and you're fucking with the foundation of hiphop. But inject that aforementioned depth of emotion into a shattered and rebuilt rhythmic template, and you might arrive at something vital. Food for Animals step up to the plate and mostly obliterate the rhythmic conventions we've come to expect from hiphop. This isn't skittering, hiccuped eski beat or minimalist schizhop pong hits; what remains after DJ/producer Ricky Rabbit goes Rick James all over his ProTools setup sounds like a field recording from a sheet metal factory getting flattened by a herd of bulldozers. In fact, it isn't until two minutes into this 20minute sound test that any semblance of a beat settles for MC Vulture Voltaire to rap over. But once he rolls through Rabbit's swarm of killer beats with a brassy, heavyweight tone, the gravity is difficult to ignore. Don't be misled: You have to be in the mood for this sometimes withering assault. When Voltaire comes in over the twisted strings and stuttering drums of \"Brand New\", all semblance of dance floor contrivance and headphone filler are laid to waste. Rock Scavengers while flipping through Vice in the waiting room of your local body piercing shop with Jim Beam and bad powder on hand as your only anesthetic. After several early tunes are burnt up with Rabbit's short jagged percussion stabs and Voltaire's soulful, lowinthemix rage, the final 12 minutes show the bloodquickening power this duo is capable of. The whole album is a rant against Bush's stolen presidency, but \"Cut and Paste\" and the title track are especially sweltering with Voltaire's pointed lyrical barbs. His voice, bristling with clipped urgency, is clear, aggressive and angry, yet possessed with the selfaware humor of the most articulate political MCs. It's the anchor that pulls the ear down through Rabbit's torrential beat smashing and the means by which Food for Animals manages to strike a teetering balance of chaos and focus that prods a second listen. By the time the instrumental \"TTFN\" closes the album, you've probably been suckered into the band's abrasive, unlikely funk. I can't imagine too many hiphop heads cranking Scavengers this summer, but grizzled fans of dark arthop like Kid 606 and Dälek will likely grit their teeth in a joyful agony as Food for Animals blasts into some wellmuscled noise. Recommended only for those with a high tolerance for serial grime and a taste for the sharper, harder edge of hiphop. "}