{"label":" Paper Bag","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3293/homepage_large.c320489a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Derek Miller","artist":"Jake Fairley","title":"Touch Not the Cat","text":" Toronto native Jake Fairley left partner Ian Worang and the electropunk duo Uncut in 2003, moving to Germany to pursue microhouse and dance music full time. Worang transformed Uncut into a trad fourpiece and cut back on their electronic flourishes; Fairley stuck with his flair for amphetamined beats, cramming the dancefloor with singles on labels such as DumbUnit and Kompakt Extra, for which he's contributed a pair of tracks to the Speicher series most notably last year's tankersized \"Octane\". Fairley's singles embody the swaggering warmth of 1970s glam and 80s synthpop, and his first fulllength, Touch Not the Cat, continues in that vein, combining the stadiumsized spunk of T. Rex and Depeche Mode with rough microhouse beats. But it's when he shades closest to the tracky stomp of fellow popheads Matthew Dear and Superpitcher that Jake Fairley makes his mark. Fairley has always more popsavvy than clinical, so it's not surprising that Fairley's vocal tracks are the album's best. Except for his slapdash Lou Reed drawl on \"Mosquito\", Fairley's detached drone is the perfect accoutrement for these nightdimmed techjams. Opener \"Nightstick\" is swanky aggrogrind with harsh static slamming against a throaty beat. The effect sounds like Depeche Mode crosstransmitted on 14 broken radios a few tuned in but most spitting out static or white noise. Fairley's blooddrained vocals add an ironic enthuasim to the song's harsh T. Raumschmierelike throbs. \"At Night\" opens with a classic schaffel beat as caustic electronic tones try to keep pace with its steady forward thrust. His voice bristles with recriminations for a girl always missing after dark. When he moans \"I'm losing control/ I'm losing my mind,\" his concern traces the polar necessities of acceptance and denial. The aching vocals give the rhythms a tension to work against, preventing it from submerging into sometimes unengaging rhythms. \"All On Me\" quiets Fairley's voice to a whisper against a dirty beat and a hypnotic electronic loop that's hard to miss and harder to not fall for. The song makes fool's gold of genrelabeling; even a threepiece jugband could make a melody like this sound stunning. The track is brimming with daybreak optimism amidst the guilt of knowing you fuck up on a regular basis. Slowing into the rough electronics and a stubborn beat, the album closes as it opened with a highlight. In between those two is a dearth of compelling tracks. \"Prussia\" plods on for almost six minutes without coalescing into a hook, while \"Dinklesburg\" regurgitates the same cranky chimeloop naked of the necessary subtle flourishes. There's no subtlety or nuance, just a cacophonous grind thriving on generic inertia. The only exception is the snowedin mania of \"Radiator\". Perhaps Fairley just needs a guitar player and fulltime pop enthusiast like Worang as much as his former partner's band could use a deft electronic touch. Though each shows enough promise and creativity to keep a lazy eye on, the former partners' releases feel embryonic without the other's complements. Their division leaves the two competing in crowded fields the neonpulse of German schaffel and the nulllight of postpunk. Perhaps it's time to join hands again, boys. "}