{"label":" NFI","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3295/homepage_large.2a013bbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Frequency","title":"The Frequency","text":" If ever there was a band that lost its way, it was Trans Am. In the mid90s, these guys were the toast of the postrock scene even though more often than not they actually did rock. Futureworld and The Surveillance were concentrated, nasty albums that sang straight to your machine soul. By the 00s, though, Trans Am LPs became sprawling refuges for labored irony. If anyone can actually remember a thing about the second half of Red Line, I'd be surprised, and Trans Am have only gone downhill from there. Therefore, it only makes sense that the band's members might be itching to try something new, and drummer Sebastian Thomson is the first to head out on his own although exactly how new his work as The Frequency actually is to him is open for debate. For one thing, outside of Thomson's omnipresent (and often unremarkable) vocals there's not a whole lot of difference between the dark, buzzing vibe of this album and the late work of Trans Am. There is an absolute ton of sawtoothed synth on this record, and it's heaped on top of an absolute ton of Kraftwerkstyled synth patterns and lockstep beats both live and programmed. Thomson's singing give the album more of a focal point than most recent Trans Am fare, but he's frequently found well inside the mix, and often there's little melodic contour for his competent everyman voice to follow. Often, his unaffected voice simply doesn't sound at home in this songs I never thought I'd ever have to say \"needs more vocoder,\" but here we are. Bur this album does have plenty going for it. Thomson is a killer drummer but he's not showy, and at the heart of every song lies a solid rhythmic foundation. What Thomson does best is evil synth pop, and the songs that follow that road are usually pretty great, from opener \"You're the Perfect Size\" to the Computer World strut of \"One Chance\" and \"Zapatos Blancos\". \"Erasing Myself\" is less synthoriented, but it carries the same feel and has some of the album's best vocals double tracking does wonders to liven up Thomson's delivery. \"Own Me\" adds almost jangly guitars to an itchy synth groove. It's the album's brightest moment, and one of its best tracks. If the LP were focused solely on this type of material, Thomson would have a pretty handsome record; as it is, he succumbs to his band's tendency to pile on subpar material, and he really loses his footing on the album's more rockoriented numbers check the overripe guitar leads on \"Moonburn\" or the boring, sludgy slog of \"Forgot\", with its weakly shouted vocals and nonmelody. So, unfortunately, The Frequency doesn't seem to be a step toward regaining Trans Am's sense of pinpoint focus even if it is both stronger than that band's recent releases and contains its share of highlights. There are certainly worse traits for a musician to have than not knowing when to stop, but in this case it's the difference between a good album and a merely fair one. "}