{"label":" Gnomonsong","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13364/homepage_large.c9ff2e2d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Feathers","title":"Feathers","text":" Looking (and often sounding) as though they've been sent directly from central casting, the psychfolk octet Feathers originate from the same fertile New England climates that generated the wayfaring likes of Tower Recordings and the MV & EE Medicine Show. The arrival of their debut album on Devendra Banhart and Andy Cabic's Gnomonsong label has not gone unheralded, since the group have built a promising reputation through their guest appearances on Banhart's Cripple Crow and opening for such acts as Sufjan Stevens, Dinosaur Jr., and Smog. In addition, Feathers' Kyle Thomas and Asa Irons perform alongside J Mascis in the sweetleaf metal combo Witch, an outfit whose recent debut provides this ethereal album with a valuable textual counterpoint. Home recorded and originally selfreleased on vinyl, the music on Feathers exists largely in the bucolic countryside previously occupied by the Incredible String Band, Comus and their progressive brethren. This might lead skeptics to dismiss this spirited collective as just another escapist hippie revival. Yet throughout the album the casual sophistication of Feathers' arrangements as well as their firm grasp of dissolute, postSiltbreeze dynamics helps these performances achieve a distinct emotive depth and a gauzy, outoftime luster. Four of the group's eight members contributed to the songwriting, and at least that many help furnish vocals. And while this multiplicity of perspective lends the album a constant variety of shade and nuance, it never distracts from the essential fellowship of Feathers' quiet, communal flutter. The surprising elegence of the group's vocal interplay is evident almost immediately in the opening minutes of \"Old Black Hat With a Dandelion Flower\". Layered with ripples of acoustic and electric guitar above exotic percussion that curiously recalls Dr. John's 1968 voodoopsych classic Gris Gris, this track is resplendent with the easy vocal harmonies of Meara O'Reilly and Ruth Garbus, with Kurt Weisman's falsetto adding a sweetly offkilter wobble to the gentle din. Later on, relatively forthright folkrock songs like \"To Each His Own\" and \"Past the Moon\" are enlivened through Feathers' deft instrumental flourishes, as discrete elements of cello, mandolin, lapharp and birdcalls are inserted between their mirrored rays of quicksilver guitar. Affairs become slightly more unhinged on \"Van Rat\", an oddball structure of whistles, stray radio waves and inscrutable lyrics that reference monkeys and robot arms. As is the case with Witch, here Feathers' persistently ornate and hardtodecipher lyrics are delivered without a trace of irony. This earnestness can give seemingly fanciful tracks like \"Silverleaves in the Air of Starseedlings\" an unsettling, vaguely sinister undertow, an effect further amplified on \"Ibex Horn\" by a mixed chorus of shadowy whispers. The clouds part, however, on the guileless anthem \"Come Around\", an irresistable call to nature that carries the album off with a springlike gust of extrapotent oxygen. Coupling their graceful, intuitive musicianship with a resolute outwardbound gaze, Feathers appear ready to join the elite of the avantfolk underground, and ideally this will be the first of many passages through their peaceable, separatist kingdom. "}