{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3333/homepage_large.b440f8bc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Function","title":"The Secret Miracle Fountain","text":" This third album by Australia's Function is an unholy mess. Sound quality varies widely, like the album was patched together from a bag full of tapes made on wildly variable gear. Which is likely, given that the music was recorded over the course of several years in 10 countries with contributions from more than 30 people. The list of instruments used stretches into the dozens; performed bits are pasted together with field recordings and wholesale appropriation of records from other artists. And to top it off, the CD is long as hell well over 70 minutes and it feels even longer. In short, focus and restraint are nonexistent. So why does this porous blob of a record sound so good? Why does it fail in such a beautiful way? Function's Matt Nicholson is, curiously enough, a relatively conventional indie rock songwriter. Opener \"Beloved, Lost to Begin With\", with lyrics adapted from a Rilke poem, has familiar neoshoegazer features male/female harmonizing by Nicholson and Felicity Mangan and a glacial tempo but other elements bubble up to indicate Function are on their own trip. There's a crackling campfire throughout the song (sure enough, the neighbors are credited in the booklet with \"fire/chatter\"), and when the drums arrive they're absurdly huge, as if thundering down a mountain. A slow, pretty indie rock song is thus bent though production tweaks into something strange a pattern repeated throughout the album. Other proper songs are spread evenly over the course of the record; Nicholson sings some, elsewhere he recruits others to help him. They range from solid and workmanlike to quite good, but it's not the songs that make this record. Rather, it's the way they fit with all the weirdness swirling around them, how they gradually emerge from behind the thick production fog. While Nicholson is a decent, and sometimes very good, songwriter, one gets the sense that in his heart of hearts he's really just a freak for sound. The kind of guy who obsesses over the timbre of amplifier hum, fated to walk the earth with a MiniDisc recorder in his pocket.  Plenty of bands alternate songs with instrumental interludes, of course, but I don't know of many willing to go to such extremes. After the second track, \"The Red Hook Miracle Fountain\", another bit of tuneful slowcore with falsetto vocals by Nicholson, the record descends to a microscopic level on \"Prayer in a Tonal Forest\", with clicks of static and fragments of guitar notes that linger on the threshold of audibility. And this for more than four minutes. The abrupt drop in volume and subtlety of this moment is courageous, coming as it does so early in the record, where some will be compelled to switch it off. It strikes me as a lovely track worthy of inclusion on a Kompakt Pop Ambient compilation, certainly not something you'd expect to follow the previous two songs.  The instrumentals are highly variable but generally favor heavily textured drone. \"Shards\" and \"Mad Light Obviating Things\", with their processed guitar feedback mixed with flutes and harp, suggest that Nicholson has spent many hours with his head lodged somewhere between Fripp and Eno; the longer \"New Music for Bowed Animals\" is closer to the Experimental Audio Research's wispy and cosmic VCS3 synthesizer trips. \"The Broken Shaman\" is an unlikely sample collage, combining trombone from a Stuart Dempster record with voice from a Lakshmi Shankar record (all samples cleared!) and then mixing the results with live percussion.  Occasionally, the soundscapes and tunes come together nicely into one track. \"Alone With the Real Magic Dragon (Hanalei)\" stretches the ethereality of dream pop into an eightminute blissout, as strings, wordless vocals, and guitar bleed together in swatches of psychedelic color. The recording quality on this one is no great shakes, unfortunately; according the booklet the track was recorded in Hawaii, Melbourne, Belgium, and England, so there you have it. The Secret Miracle Fountain is very far from a perfect record; still, despite its length and meandering nature, it's rarely dull. Even during the patches that don't quite work, the momentum engendered by the ambition carries the day. Disciplined adherence to a fixed set of goals may be the most prudent path to success, but with this record, Function argue convincingly that sometimes you have to leave the planning behind and go on instinct.  "}