{"label":" Force Inc","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3335/homepage_large.0c8a3400.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"G-Man (aka Gez Varley)","title":"Avanti","text":" Gez Varley's second album for the Germanically austere techno label, Force Inc, is as solid a collection as his previous, Bayou Paradis. Though released under Varley's GMan moniker, Avanti follows the same pattern as Bayou Paradis clinical machine funk for purists. Varley's GMan pose came to prominence with Quo Vadis, the lead track on 1995's GMan EP. Seven years ago, Quo Vadis sounded to be way ahead of its time. I found the sparse hypnotic moves that Varley performed to be coolly uncomfortable next to my daily rinseout with Underworld's Dubnobasswithmyheadman and Autechre's Tri Repetae++. Quo Vadis was dancefloor functionality at its apogee; its form unmistakably followed its function. Varley intended to provide rudimentary syncopation and Quo Vadis delivered in an immediately satisfying rush that Richie Hawtin's far brainier Plastikman releases couldn't. Capitalizing on the demand and kudos for Quo Vadis, Varley's GMan released the fulllength Kushti (London slang for 'alright' or 'okay'). He roped in former Hawtin collaborator Mark Gage to sequence two hours' worth of new and previously released EP tracks into two halfhour long tracks (or 'zones', as the sleevenotes called them). At the time, Kushti was the benchmark for minimal techno. Then came microhouse.Avanti, like Varley's previous release, Bayou Paradis, conspicuously neglects microhouse, the style for which Force Inc has become renowned. This neglecting of current trends makes Avanti sounds either dated or ageless, depending on how charitable a mood you're in. The steely \"Lollipop\" hovers like Vapourspace's \"Gravitational Arc of Ten\" mixed with the furrowing drones of Spiritual High's \"Up!\". \"Lime (Face)\" pulses like a electrocardiogram and \"K.7\" (here remixed by microhouse champs MRI) glowers like a petulant and ignored catwalk queen. With a smattering of granulated echoes and chromium flashes, \"Azur\" connects the listener with the characteristic grit of Berlin's Basic Channel. But to prevent the cut from becoming a soundtrack to a pofaced art installation, Varley stirs getdowns with an irresistible late80s Chicago jackin' baseline. \"Franz Blau\" reinforces my conviction that Varley has never once lost the funk, as an infectiously syncopated and mutated cowbell keeps my ass moving despite the song's heavy, whooshing ambience. \"Pistazie\" contains more electroclashfriendly blips and Linn Drum snap claps than an entire night out with Fischerspooner but perilous as that sounds, with a solid grounding in the redemptive power of pure Detroit techno, \"Pistazie\" never succumbs to imitating Soft Cell. Elsewhere, Varley comes closest to his LFO past with the industrial clank of \"Grape\" though even that mechanical sound is mitigated by his application of a delicate sheen over the abrasions. Though offering no innovation or headturning, earbending moments, Avanti is unmistakably an album created by a master of the style. Varley is one of the foremost producers of pure techno. And while his pioneering days may be over, Avanti proves that he's not lost his gift for making soulless machines resonant with approximate humanity. It has, however, taken me many listen to get over lamenting Varley's lack of experimentation I doubt he'll ever try his hand at Detroitinflected ragatech, which is a crying shame. But I now look to the positive aspect: Avanti also demonstrates that Varley seems unlikely to descend into nujazz broken beat hideousness. "}