{"label":" Realworld","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3338/homepage_large.2e1b0b32.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Spencer Owen","artist":"Peter Gabriel","title":"OVO: The Millennium Show","text":" Geffen A&R; executive Tony Berg was quoted a few years back as suggesting that Peter Gabriel should call his next album Peter Gabriel Makes Grown Men Cry. To this day, I'm not exactly sure how he meant that. Either: #1: Gabriel's songs have apparently continued to be so heartwrenchingly emotional that men still shed tears simply at the sound of his voice. #2: He's such an anal perfectionist that it's taken him years to craft his latest studio album, and fans, as well as record execs, weep with frustration. As for the frustration thing, it's been eight years, and Gabriel still hasn't finished it. 2000, however, did see the release of a new UKonly Peter Gabriel record titled OVO: The Millennium Show. The album is technically a soundtrack to the disastrous Millennium Dome show that occurred in England a year ago. Just as Geffen attempted to convince the public that Beck's Mutations was not an \"official\" followup to Odelay, OVO is being deemed \"not the official followup to 1992's Us\". So, what's a fan to do, except simply take this as consolation for fourfifths of a decade of waiting? For one, they can hope that the real album is better. OVO has its moments, sure, but it's also fairly inconsistent. The sentiment and plot yes, there's a plot is, in fact, so hackneyed it's hard to believe that Berg Implication #1 could be the case. Despite all this, Gabriel does at times come through: a little over half of the record ranks alongside his early 90s work. Had the rest been cut, OVO's runtime would weigh in at 20 minutes less, but because they're all here, their mediocrity preserved in plastic for all time, the album's pitfalls prevent it from gaining consistency and cohesiveness. According to the liner notes, Gabriel has recruited some of his \"favourite voices\" to sing the bulk of OVO's material. The female presence is welcome; like Kate Bush and Sinéad O'Connor before them, Iarla O Lionaird and the Cocteau Twins' Elizabeth Fraser provide a lovely, sensual atmosphere to their cuts. When Richie Havens and Paul Buchanan pop up, though, it's unclear why Gabriel, whose vocals would have lent themselves infinitely better to these songs, didn't just sing them himself. \"The Story of OVO\" opens the album with promising, ethnically rich accompaniment, until Rasco (??) and Neneh Cherry start rapping. In the more than thirty years Peter Gabriel has been recording, he's never before written a rap, and it becomes clear immediately: \"A long time ago in a far away land/ There was a man/ Who learned to understand.\" The Gabrielsung chorus and the rhythmic closing almost make the trite lyrics worth enduring. Okay, they don't. But that's somewhat easily forgiven with a casual press of the 'skip' button. The first half's only major standout, \"Low Light\", follows with a beautiful ambient feel and an intro previewing the orchestral melody of a later track, the musically stunning \"DownsideUp\". \"The Time of the Turning\" sounds nice initially, but ultimately reveals itself as mediocre, with Havens and Fraser taking lead vocals on a generally forgettable melody. \"The Weavers' Reel\" pairs a reprise of \"Turning\" with a formulaic, lifeless Celtic reel, augmented with an unforgivably cheesy dance beat. And \"Father, Son\" attempts to go the way of Gabriel's previous ballads, but with such a saccharine sentiment and ordinary melody, it goes the way of elevator music. It's after this track that the line of demarcation from indifference to actual greatness becomes apparent, since the next song sets a new standard of quality which is ultimately fulfilled by OVO's remainder. \"The Tower That Ate People\" is Gabriel's funkiest track since \"Sledgehammer\", with growling verse vocals, phased guitars, overdriven organ, and a gorgeously haunting bridge melody. \"Revenge\" follows flawlessly with a breathtakingly strong, layered rhythm by African drum group The Dhol Foundation. And the 10minute closing collaboration with electronic artist BT, \"Make Tomorrow\", is consistently enjoyable throughout its extravagant running time, bearing enough melodic and tonal changes to keep the listener interested. But the best track by far arrives just before the ending. \"DownsideUp\" is, melodically, one of the best songs in Gabriel's entire catalog and it was a damn strong catalog to begin with. The banal lyrics keep it from joining the ranks of his other classics, but the fluidity and richness of the chorus melody, and the skilled, outstanding guitar line that enters at the bridge, makes it a strong contender.OVO should nicely tide over you longtime fans until the eventual release of the forthcoming Up. It's inconsistent, though, and at times overbearingly trite, but it does contain some surprisingly effective material. If nothing else, the $30 import tag is a better bargain for the obsessive fan than a plane ticket to Britain. "}