{"label":" Inoxia","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3340/homepage_large.45d7ab34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Gaji","title":"9pm at GFM","text":" Gaji's most recent album didn't exactly make them household names in the U.S., which is no surprise considering that they've yet to play in America or even release a record outside of Japan. The few of you who might have heard them wouldn't be surprised to hear me compare them favorably to bands such as Fugazi or classic Wire or Gang of Four. Other names to drop would be concert partners The Locust, Ruins, and MeltBanana. So, do they sound like a mathy punk band to you yet? Well, that's not exactly the case: Yui Kimijima's grinding, wiry guitar figures ensure that you know exactly where they're coming from, just as Chisaki Taguchi's drumming spikes like broken mirror shards. Yet they aren't spastic or crazy or whatever Japanese postpostpunk bands are supposed to be. They're a band like any other you might listen to I only imagine they're not household names because most people haven't been introduced to them yet. Of course, Gaji haven't made it very easy for people outside of Japan to find them: In order to find their records you have to search strange, scary Japanese distro sites (or worse, ask Japanophiles like me about them). I guess this harkens back to punk's original days when wordofmouth meant as much or more than what the media was telling you; but in 2004, wordofmouth seems about 1,000 times slower than an Internet connection. So, please meet Gaji: Surely one of the best bands you haven't heard.9pm at GFM is Gaji's fourth fulllength release, and was recorded live at the Tokyo club Grapefruit Moon. It's not really a \"live album\" there's no audience and all but one of the songs is new. The band, despite initiating a new bassist, sticks fairly close to the sound of their prior releases: tight, angular guitar figures over almostbutnotquite unhinged drumming. Another way of putting it is that they play downtrodden postpunk at the speed of muso hardcore tense as hell, but not devoid of emotion. In fact, 9pm improves on their most recent album, Ten to Ten Past Ten, in its efficient use of dissonance and concise aggression, using these traits as painters use blacks and whites to sharpen archetypes. Opener \"Sand\" begins as tentative amp fuzz and deceptive, subtle ebb from Kimijima. When the full band enters like a jackhammer locomotive, it's clear this will be no ambient affair. As it happens, though, the song is relatively lowkey. Vocalist Yuko Hasegawa intones passive protest with her lines. I have no idea what she's saying (no lyric sheet is included), but she sounds pretty tired of something or someone. Just as Yasuko O's vocals do for MeltBanana, Hasegawa's blunt admissions serve as iron fist rhythm as much as melody. As the bass grinds below, Hasegawa bleats like a cold lion, leaving very little to chance. I don't normally go for the desensitized thing in vocals, but she wears it well and, in turn, helps make music that might otherwise lapse into pseudometal grandeur come out a bit more broken. In short, she has a cool voice. \"Jagg\" speeds up the tempo, but wisely trades out tension for a major mode. Still, Hasegawa's low range utterances suggest dissonance even as the band surges forth like Can introduced to the industrial age. Similarly, the noir (yet propulsive) indie balladry of \"Fire in Hands\" would beg for melodrama along the lines of the most grotesque soul baring of Courtney Love, but Gaji stick close to a black curtain. It stays soft when they're supposed to go softloudsoft, and Hasegawa stays gray when she's supposed to be florescent and anxious. I wouldn't ordinarily think subtlety and introversion would be great qualities for a band like this, but they make it seem obvious. And yes, when the super loud stuff happens later on, it fucking kills. So if Gaji are so great, etc., etc. Well, I can complain about the sound of this release. Live albums are nice and all, but when your stock in trade is playing intricate riffs, while the vocalist has a darktoned alto rather than a piercing falsetto, a proper studio mix is in order. As it stands, Ten to Ten Past Ten is still the best introduction to the group, but 9pm at GFM suggests that not only are these guys and gals for real, they're practically slept on. "}