{"label":" Law and Auder","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3348/homepage_large.ac098178.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Galerie Stratique","title":"Nothing Down-to-Earth","text":" Nothing DowntoEarth is an accurate description of CharlesÉmile Beullac's maiden voyage under the Galerie Stratique guise. Beullac describes his work as mistyabstract electronica, which sets up loathsome images of an airbrushed future as envisioned by the PreRaphaelite Brotherhood. But no matter what brickbats Beullac throws, you should head straight for the album it's the most refreshing pureIDM album I've heard since Ulrich Schnauss' Far Away Trains Passing By was released late last year. Nothing DowntoEarth is so complete an album that I can't possibly condone Law and Auder even thinking about commissioning a remix record. Beullac distinguishes himself by being concise and true to himself. He's selfassured enough not to leap on any bandwagon or to pay more than passing lip service to current software and styles. Nothing DowntoEarth is therefore starkly bereft of postAutechre laptop crunch and Schematic glitch. Beullac's beats are not entities removed from the drifting spaciness of his ambience; he's integrated them into the texture of his pieces, and thereby released them from just signifying rhythmic units. This approach to beatprogramming reminds me of the time of Autechre's Tri Repetae. Nothing DowntoEarth additionally derives its ambivalent complexsimple style from Global Communications' 76.14 and Reload's A Collection of Short Stories. As a result, anyone expecting Beullac to be a bleedingedge member of the Montreal electronic scene will find this album wistfully nostalgic. By the same token, if you're up for some almost forgotten Artificial Intelligence and Headphone listening, Nothing DowntoEarth delivers in spades. With the opener, \"Star Filter,\" Beullac begins as he means to go on. The song is a delicately echoed drift through dust motes. \"Algeria\" follows, mutating the first track's theme with a middleeastern inflected variant. As the track builds tension, repeating the melody line and adding incrementally more oppressive percussion, Beullac releases a powerful analog bass drone to maintain order. Still, an alien countermelody soon appears and challenges all other elements for dominance. \"Leviathan\" is the first piece that borrows from the processed Burundistyle drumming that Jon Hassell and Brian Eno used for their seminal and visionary Possible Music. Beullac gives his polyrhythms prominence and uses dark ambient tones to infuse \"Leviathan\" with a looming, monstrous quality that justifies its title. \"Frozen Lakes\" reprises the echoing chimes of \"Star Filter,\" but as it's three times as long, Beullac has the opportunity to add a nomadic melodica line. I find \"Frozen Lakes\" an inappropriate title, because the music is far more fluid than I'd expect from a piece with this name. It's the melodica line that connotes for me distance and yearning, and within the context of this piece, my third eye imagines wandering through the heatless vastness of space. Or perhaps I've been listening to too many Augustus Pablo records to appreciate any other situation for a melodica. Inevitably, Nothing DowntoEarth cannot escape the influence of the Boards of Canada. Though \"Rylka\" borrows its naïve melody from Music Has the Right to Children, Beullac distinguishes the track by adding some BurundibywayofPossible Music percussion. \"Luna\" begins as a reworking of Albinoni's \"Adagio\" for Orb devotees, but Beullac breaks out his melodica for another mournful trip across the universe. \"Opale\" is bassheavy master class in getting away with gauzy, pitchslipping hooks just as the fuzzedout cathedral organ of \"Soleil Levant\" demonstrates what the Phantom of the Opera would play if he'd been studying Brian Wilson and Aphex Twin. The phantasmagoric and elegant four minutes of \"Soleil Levante\" are what Simian spent their entire debut album trying to create. The sound picture that Beullac paints here is not the trite image of sun rising that the Beatles did with \"Here Comes the Sun.\" Beullac's sun is unmistakably more Gnostic, more order of the Golden Dawn than George Harrison's happygolucky vision. Perpetuating Beullac's shrouded, disquieting style, \"Dictaphone\" is a Namlooklike sequencer piece, disrupted by static bursts and garbled speech. Again, my third eye is overstimulated. Beullac's \"Dictaphone\" is like the fortiesfuturist office supplies in Alex Proyas' Dark City.Nothing DowntoEarth is as complete a debut as I've heard in ages. Unless you're looking for innovation, there's nothing here that won't amaze you. Yes, you've heard some of these textures before, and yes, Beullac borrows from predecessors. But I never lost Beullac in this album. His uniqueness is the background radiation of the universe of Nothing DowntoEarth. Too many debuts submerge individuality in order to emulate (and therefore become part of) canonical IDM releases. Though Beullac's debut may not receive the plaudits it manifestly deserves because of its unwillingness to pay homage to Reaktor's latest upgrade or the mandates of the style council of the IDM listserv, I am over the moon with it. "}