{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3366/homepage_large.75645c61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Laurent Garnier","title":"The Cloud Making Machine","text":" Laurent Garnier has played the Antonio Salieri of the French electronic scene, spending years studying and publicizing the genre only to take a backseat to majorlabel Mozarts like Air, Cassius, and of course Daft Punk. But while these newcomers were living it up in the house scene that Garnier built, the veteran DJ pressed on with several commendable, although modestly received, fulllengths. What Garnier can lack in feeling, he makes up for with years of technical knowhow, on The Cloud Making Machine as before. Songs like \"Huis Clos\" and \"Act 1 Minotaure Ex.\" are dark and colossal, as if recorded in some massive subaquatic lair. \"Barbiturik Blues\" clearly sprouts from the same mind that flavored his late 1980s house and techno with refreshing amounts of jazz. The song showcases casinocool mellotron improv over an impeccably modulated drum beat. Between the two instruments, Garnier drops spaceage blips and beeps, just to top it all off. Garnier's logged many years in this biz spinning Madchester, penning books, and curating compilations he's heard a lot and his palate is wide. That said, Garnier's genrehopping tendency costs him his personality, a common sacrifice for DJs. \"9.019.06\" drips with Richard D. James envy; its ominous bassline sounds like a mere video game score compared to Aphex Twin's more menacing bass patterns. \"(I Wanna Be) Waiting For My Plane\" sounds like an electronic mutation of The Stooges' \"I Wanna Be Your Dog\" with a shitty Iggy Pop, restored by scratchy digital sheen. All in all, despite failing to live up to their originals, the tracks change up the album's pace nicely and allow Garnier to show off more electro toys. Garnier's idea for a more cerebral, emotional album is wise; 2000's Unreasonable Behaviour, with its vocoders and pretentious lyrics, begged too hard for attention. At the risk of sounding cold, the only thing about The Cloud Making Machine that could be considered pretentious is that it has a concept in this case, the Parisian homeless. Come on, Laurent, how am I supposed to help the homeless when I can't stop digging these beats?! "}