{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3370/homepage_large.3c4c25d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Rebecca Gates","title":"Ruby Series EP","text":" People used to think Rebecca Gates and Scott Plouf were a couple. Probably because they were a recording duo that gave themselves the suburbanite surname the Spinanes, and the photos on the sleeves of their debut album, Manos, were all matrimonial. (The photos were actually from Gates' parent's wedding.) But despite the fact that Gates and Plouf rocked perfectly in sync, as though they could read each other's minds, they weren't a couple just a sparse, driving rock band with a White Stripesstyle set up of drums and guitar. After the Spinanes released their second album, 1996's bittersweet Strand, Scott Plouf split to play drums for Built to Spill. The Spinanes didn't quite \"break up,\" though Gates brought her guitar to Chicago and recorded Arches and Aisles with a guest roster of the Windy City's postrock icons, proving in the process that she could handle songwriting on her own. Three years after the release of Arches and Aisles, Gates' Ruby Series EP comes like a postcard from a friend you've been out of touch with. \"The Seldom Scene\" arrives on your doorstep with warm guitar chords and Rebecca's breathy delivery. You can tell that her recent stint performing jazz standards has improved her control; her voice hovers carefully on separate syllables as she soothes: \"You say you feel so soulless, and never right/ Maybe you could stay here, where the light is safe.\" The sparse arrangement seems like a folk ballad until the instruments converge suddenly in jazzy accord. Thankfully, though, there are few postrock signifiers here just producer John McEntire's vibraphone lead. \"Lure and Cast\" follows with a different kind of bait for Gates altogether. The programmed bass pattern and her shimmering guitar almost recall Massive Attack's \"Protection.\" Gates' fans might worry about a transition to a sort of SherylCroweesque \"adult rock\" with all the smooth sounds here, but her subtle guitar accents make it clear that she's comfortable not having to play so hard to flesh out the sound. Plus, the skittering drums keep the song sounding fresh, further exploring the lush developments of Arches and Aisles, even if it is a bit of a stretch trying to rhyme \"so radiant\" with \"so, so salient.\" The big shocker comes with \"In a Star Orbit,\" which starts with bass beats and chimes that might have shaken ass on an early90's Saint Etienne album. Gates' voice runs through a processor, adding a hazy sheen to her lazy Prekopian pop vocals. The song shifts nicely after about a minute and a half, from a synth bassline to a more live continuum, but McEntire's toostrong influence adds an unnecessary air of SeaandCake tropicalia. The tune is forgettable but it's bookended by two of the best songs on the album. \"Move\" features Gates' slow acoustic strumming and melancholy musings: \"A listless life filled with deathwish panderings and diets.\" Static electronics whisper faintly, and Chicago Underground Trio's Noel Kupersmith draws a hint of tension from the increasing speed of his bassline. \"Doos\" is an odd pastiche of styles, but it works: Red Red Meat's Brian Deck loops tinny beats, while Gates adds O'Rourkian squiggling and layers her voice for a sensual summer daydream: \"Caught in the breath of the thought of the warmth of lips tingling.\"Ruby Series has a strange power to recontextualize the retro sounds listed above. To Gates' credit, the overproduced electronics mix well with the glockenspiels, marimbas and Wurlitzer organs, in the end sounding more like her songwriting and less like a McEntire remix. But some might wonder why her experiments with texture are necessary at all especially when the closer, \"I Received a Levitation,\" harkens so pleasingly back to Strand days, with acoustic fretsqueals, restless percussion from Kupersmith and Gates' tripletracked confessionals. The picture focuses when you consider the periodic emphasis in the EP's title, and the photos taken by Gates in the sleeve of beachfront resorts and lounging sunbathers. These songs are each snapshots, a sort of emotional travelogue for us to take a voyeuristic listen to. If you can get past the fact that Gates isn't rocking out anymore, this is just the thing for a languid weekend afternoon. "}