{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3379/homepage_large.d03a2895.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Geeez'n'Gosh","title":"Nobody Knows","text":" Jesus gets worship in many different forms. Some of his devotees whip themselves until their skin is a bloody mockery of normality. Some spend decades in the deserts with nothing but the burning sun and the freezing cold for companionship, and the occasional locust for nutrition. Others allow poisonous snakes to inject them with venom so that Jesus' healing power might neutralize the effects of the serpent's fatal alkalines. A prolific electronic prankster and man of many guises (Atom Heart, Señor Coconut, Lassigue Bendthaus, to mention just a few of his masks), Uwe Schmidt praises Jesus by imprisoning the voices of gospel singers in his hard drive.Nobody Knows is Schmidt's second stab at creating the definitive motherboard devotional microhouse glitch album. But having listened to the result many times, I'm forced into concluding that his first attempt, My Life with Jesus, came closer to meeting his goal. The primary reason Nobody Knows packs a smaller wallop than its predecessor is simply the lack of a killer track. My Life with Jesus floored me with \"Soul of Mine\" a bucking house groove rhythmically offset with shards of glitch atop of which an uncredited female voice sang of her soul's certain journey back to God. In intensity and sincerity, \"Soul of Mine\" is rivaled only by Ralph Stanley's \"O, Death\" and Virginia Rodrigues' inspired performance of the spiritual \"I Want to Be Ready.\" Throughout Nobody Knows, Uwe Schmidt plays more for the microhouse community than to anyone more interested in the recontexulizing of gospel. And when Schmidt does throw something out for the latter group, he chooses easy targets. Case in point: the stupidly obvious retooling of \"Swing Low, Sweet Chariot.\" Fans who come for the microhouse, however, suffer no such indignities or disappointments. \"It's No Secret (What God Can Do)\" is Schmidt's most rarefied abstraction of unearthly sounds; their brooding propulsion forces the listener to recall the opening verses of the first chapter of Genesis. \"The Love of God\" begins in a similarly portentous fashion as an inexorable climatic movement towards thunderousness before Schmidt drops in the sample, an enraptured gent soulfully crooning about \"The Love of God.\" Here, Schmidt uses the sample and its juxtaposition to say something about the fervor of religious conviction and his respect for it. But elsewhere, Schmidt throws his respect aside. \"Pray\" uses a sample of a woman singing only the song's namesake as just another rhythmic element in his complexly funky arrangements. Likewise, strip out the male voice repeating the word 'Jesus' during \"Sing You Children\" and you have boilerplate Mille Plateaux glitch. Yet even when Schmidt panders to the godless IDM listserve subscribers, he proves that he can turn out a spastic drillnglitch ravey roofraiser such as \"I'm Determined (Jesus Changed My Soul).\" In these moments, no one could seriously doubt Schmidt's prodigious skills as a programmer and musician, even if he is capable of much more satisfying and unique material. The central mystery of Nobody Knows is that nobody knows how ironic Schmidt is being with these tracks. I have no doubt that he was sincere and reverential on My Life with Jesus he took uncommon care to preserve the honesty and the message of those whose devotions he sampled and contorted into his sparse house grooves. But I can't say the same for Nobody Knows. The goldembossed, pixilated depiction of Jesus and the copperplate font of the cover art are a major indication of Schmidt's cheekiness. It's technology and the programming intricacy that fascinates him here. Under other circumstances, I'd be at least as fascinated by his talent. But by mixing in these very emotional performances, in which the singers reveal their innermost and cherished hopes for a better life after death, I feel Schmidt has robbed them of some of their dignity and belittles their faith. Without any reason to criticize Schmidt's exemplary production and composition, your acceptance of Nobody Knows will pivot on how strongly you respect the religious convictions of others, or appreciate Schmidt's cavalier attitude towards them. "}