{"label":" Shout! Factory","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3387/homepage_large.7d4b9986.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Bobbie Gentry","title":"Chickasaw County Child: The Artistry of Bobbie Gentry","text":" Bobbie Gentry's \"Ode to Billie Joe\" was the Twin Peaks of its time. Just as viewers in 1990 asked who killed Laura Palmer, listeners in 1967 debated what the narrator and Billie Joe McAllister dropped off the Tallahatchie Bridge. Was it a stillborn baby? A murder weapon? Drug paraphernalia? Was it her doll, as the 1976 movie version claimed? Or was it, as writer Ron Carlson theorized in The Oxford American, our collective loss of innocence as the Vietnam War raged and a counterculture surged? Originally intended as a Bside to \"Mississippi Delta\", \"Ode to Billie Joe\" was an unlikely hit: With a decidedly Southern Gothic atmosphere, the song unfolds mostly at a dinner table, builds a mystery around the narrator's unspecified relationship with Billie Joe, and touches on suicide, home cooking, and the plight of rural farmers, as Gentry's guitar and Jimmie Haskell's strings swirl around the words like eddies in swampy southern creeks. \"Ode to Billy Joe\" wasn't Gentry's only hit just the one that's still popular today, canonized by KTel and various cover versions both blatantly ironic and boringly sincere. Shout! Factory's new collection, Chickasaw County Child: The Artistry of Bobbie Gentry, seeks to erase that onehitwonder stigma by emphasizing her dusky and dramatic voice, confident interpretation, and geographically and culturally specific songwriting, all of which combined to create a unique Deep South style. By portraying her as a true artist and a legitimate contemporary of Dusty Springfield, Jessi Coulter, and even FraxE7oise Hardy, this collection intends to introduce Gentry to a new generation of listeners more familiar with the Black Lodge than Choctaw Ridge. As a testament to her woodwind coo, Chickasaw County Child succeeds effortlessly: Deep and expressive, downhome yet sophisticated, Gentry's voice transcends the country label, which she earned in the late 60s, by incorporating a range of styles to put her songs across, from blues and folk to pop and rock and even a little mariachi on \"Beverly\". However, as a collection of songs meant to showcase that voice, this collection proves more complicated and not quite revelatory. Often, her vocal performance so far surpasses the material that the effect is unintentionally comical, like watching a great actor spout wooden lines. Sometimes her songwriting veers too close to precious (\"Bugs\") or Vegas smooth (\"Marigolds and Tangerines\") or just plain weird (\"Refractions\"), and in retrospect, many of the songs here sound dated, their production too gimmicky and, by now, kitschy. In other words, too many of the songs on Chickasaw County Child sound more like artifacts of the 70s than timeless art. Discounting Gentry as outdated, however, is dangerous: Credited with all but two of the nearly two dozen tracks on Chickasaw County Child, she proves herself a smart, intuitive songwriter with a distinctive voice that incorporated childhood reminiscence to conceal rather than convey her autobiography. There's a lot more of her life in these songs than the lyrics suggest and the lyrics suggest plenty. Obviously, \"Mississippi Delta\" and \"Papa, Won't You Let Me Go to Town With You?\" draw from her childhood spent on her grandparents' rural farm, a nostalgia that lent her a marketable wholesomeness (despite the implied indiscretions of \"Ode to Billie Joe\"). As her celebrity grew with her early success, Gentry eventually turned her attention from Southern youth to a less geographically centered adulthood. Consequently, her songs became less overtly autobiographical, although she still plays the lead. She may not be the title character of \"Fancy\", a poor girl who has no qualms about how she earned that \"Georgia mansion and an elegant New York flat,\" but she certainly identifies with her toughmindedness. Following her contribution to the 1974 movie Macon County Line, Gentry retired completely and (so far) permanently from performing, refusing to give concerts or interviews and declining offers to record or collaborate. On the amazing \"Lookin' In\", the penultimate track on Chickasaw County Child, she describes her hectic routine: \"Laying in my hotel room wantin' to be alone/ Needin' the time to rest my mind/ But they bring in another stack of papers to sign/ And L.A.'s awaitin' on the other line.\" The song contains all the information we need to understand her selfimposed exile, but just like \"Ode to Billie Joe\", the answers it gives only draw more questions. Gentry promises confession in these songs, but she remains unknowable and irresolvable. As Chickasaw County Child makes clear, her true artistry lies not in what she revealed through words and music, but what she kept hidden and what her songs continue to guard so closely today. "}