{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3406/homepage_large.af47b1b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Ghost","title":"Metamorphosis: Ghost Chronicles 1984-2004","text":" Early last year as part of their regular \"Invisible Jukebox\" department The Wire played Damon and Naomi an early piece featuring the duo's frequent collaborator, Ghost guitarist Michio Kurihara. \"I can't believe he was doing this in '88,\" said Damon. \"And here we all were in our indie rock bands and we didn't know.\" Looking back, it's safe to say that hardly anybody outside of Japan had much inkling of what Masaki Batoh and his fellow mystics in Ghost were getting up to in the late 1980s. Nor could anyone have easily predicted what a psychfolk, progrock colossus the group would someday become. With their origins in guerrilla street performance and ritualistic collective improvisations staged at various Tokyoarea temples, the band's formative years seemed destined to remain in the shadows. Thankfully, however, that impression has changed with the release of Metamorphosis, Drag City's astonishing new collection of Ghost audio and video rarities. Packed with more than an hour of previously unheard music and nearly two hours of unearthed video documents, Metamorphosis contains footage from virtually every chapter of the group's existence. And though its appeal will likely be exclusively limited to those already familiar with Ghost's inspired majesty, for the avid fan this set might possibly seem too good to be true. Comprised entirely of material dating from the years 198789, the CD portion of Metamorphosis showcases various early versions of Ghost as they ambitiously cast their sound about, quite audibly seeking to test their limits and capabilities. Centered around the steadfast core of charismatic leader Batoh and multiinstrumentalists Taishi Takizawa and Kazuo Ogino, the music created by these preKurihara editions of the band often bears little resemblance to rock, and on the pieces collected here Ghost instead forge a potent, captivating blend of free jazz, acid folk, and traditional Japanese sounds. It's difficult to guess what might've been informing the group's material of this era particularly since at points here these guys seem just a step or two removed from subsisting on twigs and lichen. But several of these improvised tracks consider the same fiery trails lit by such previous explorers as AMM or free players from the classic BYG label roster. Meanwhile, the 1988 outtake \"Blood Red River\" finds Batoh emoting over some bent dustbowl blues in a strange, lowpitched drawl that manages to evoke Skip Spence. As fascinating as most of this embryonic music on the CD is, it's Metamorphosis' DVD presentation that contains most of this collection's true revelations. Featuring an abundance of live footage from various Ghost incarnations in a wide variety of venues, this disc provides a relatively succinct visual record of the group's timeline. Though much of this video is of rather shaky quality most of the clips feature the erratic sound, dim lighting and stationary cameras that U.S. viewers might associate with cable access programming this is made up for by the fact that this material exists at all and we actually get to watch it. This video collection is rife with highlights, starting with the earliest clip from 1984 which features a skinny, shirtless Batoh staging a noisy oneman demonstration in front of Tokyo's Chinese embassy to protest the occupation of Tibet. Other gems include a dynamite set of acoustic material recorded in a wooden Jesuit church in 1993 (the band billed itself as a \"medieval music club\" to get permission to play) a couple raucous tracks from 2002's Terrastock Festival in Boston, and an extended segment of more recent material performed at a 2004 Tokyo concert. Another bonus video not to be missed is of a wild 1988 group performance in a busy Tokyo train station, showcasing Batoh and Ogino in full freeform wail as bemused commuters file past. As with all the best of Metamorphosis' delights, the piece fills the viewer with immense appreciation for Ghost's haunting alien magic, and also spurs the hope that somewhere right this instant be it in Tokyo, Helsinki, Sao Paulo, or in your own town another such collection of enlightened players are kicking up their own similarly beautiful racket. "}