{"label":" Young God","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3420/homepage_large.9544673c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Daphne Carr","artist":"M. Gira / D. Matz","title":"What We Did","text":" A while ago I did this transcription of an Alan Licht interview where he talked about \"the old days\" and how New York City used to be dangerous, ugly, and full of vagrants, and therefore, also abound with strange and dark magic. In that city, so long overrun by snapcap glamour kids with dad's Swiss bank account fueling their shoddyart dreams, Michael Gira was a prince. His was mood unpredictable, his art was both serious and seriously disturbing, and it was either with extreme ecstasy or displeasure that audiences witnessed the violence, sound collage and glassshattering vocals of his thenband Swans. While touring with Sonic Youth in the mid80s, Thurston Moore commented that Swans were louder and more abrasive than they could ever be that they rather scared Moore & Co. and the rest of the audience. But while Moore's ensemble produced a linear progression of artrock through the 80s and 90s, Gira's band traveled less predictable paths (from an MCAfronted cover of Joy Division's \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\" to the ambient side project Skin, which also featured fellow Swan, Jarboe) before finally disbanding in 1997 for the pursuit of separate interests. With the formation of Young God Records and the Angels of Light, Michael Gira's fulltime, postSwans musical project, a new era of the gloomartist's career has come into view. Angels of Light have produced some of the most beautiful darkfolk on this side of the Atlantic, recalling more the manic stylings of Current 93 and Hood than the mid90s phenomenon of depraved, unraveling folk on our shores (see Will Oldham, et al). Unsurprising, then, that Gira is still largely viewed as a goth artist, a label that somehow relegates him to the Projekt ghetto even as bands like the Faint fall in the public eye as \"new wave\" while uttering the most shopping mallfriendly witticisms this side of Trent Reznor. So it's a nice to see that What We Did comes labeled a \"pop\" album, with Dan Matz from Windsor for the Derby writing a majority of the lyrics and lending his Sam Prekopinflected voice to Gira's twochord symphonies. If it weren't for the trademark Young God packaging (digipack w/solid sanserif header and footer), it could easily pass for an early Drag City or Secretly Canadian release. Opener \"Packing the Locks\" hardly introduces so much as spills out the album with simple guitar lines and Matz's plaintive vocals withdrawing the jazzturn affectations of Prekop and leaving the sensual breathiness. \"Is/Was\" takes up this slack, turning a borrowed blues melody (a la early Spiritualized) and stretching its pattern over long measures. Somewhere, the chorus ambiguously drifts in a trick employed often in the Gira camp as Matz's cigarettetorn vocals mesh with the backup to form a series of drone lullabies. This reaches its peak on \"Sunflower,\" which mutates from oftrepeated chorus into chiming and scraping blissout in a way that mirrors the best moments of Songs: Ohia's Ghost Tropic. The closing track, \"The Brightest Star,\" almost sounds like a contemplative Ladybug Transistor slowjam, all analog warmth and sweet, soaring harmonies buried deep in the mix. It's definitely pop and Matz's tendency to avoid emulating Gira's grim wails contributes to its accessibility but dirty pop (something N'Sync was never too convincing about). The rewards of this record aren't reaped through immediate digestibility, but through repeated suggestion. Still, this is by far the most palatable of Gira's growing mass of output and an indication of continued innovation in collaborating with those whose moods, ideas, and melodies augment his own dark brilliance. "}