{"label":" Martians Go Home","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3430/homepage_large.4ca0f03e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Isaiah Violante","artist":"Glifted","title":"Under and In","text":" In the upper echelon of independent noise pop there exists an unassailable group of artists whose albums have essentially paved the way for any and all future experimentation within a pop/rock format. By exploding the typical guitar rock structure with a cataclysm of prepared guitar and computer enhancements, bands like My Bloody Valentine, Lush, and Swervedriver found a means of juxtaposing avantgarde rock with minimalist drone. Finding themselves mislabeled as \"shoegazers,\" these musicians melded the most salient elements of both genres a concatenation of tape motifs and the natural timbre of acoustic instruments with mesmerizing results. While contemporary acts like Sigur Rós and Mogwai have coopted an ethereal framework (the latter even for a Levi's commercial), these shards of a hypnotic landscape have never quite captured the emotive might of its antecedents. Enter Glifted, a twopiece out of UrbanaChampaign, Illinois, composed of former Hum guitarist Tim Lash and former Lovecup bassist T.J. Harrison. While Lash was relegated primarily to a background figure in Hum, providing skilled guitar ambience and blistering leads behind singer/guitarist/übermensch Matt Talbott, Glifted's Under and In not only establishes Lash's creative brilliance, but kicks the dust off a genre that had lay dormant since Loveless. Indeed, Under and In is so teemed with technical fluency and power that it essentially modernizes and revitalizes the entire shoegazer sensibility. With experimental rock/minimalism stalled under the weight of overproduction, theatrical missteps, and lyrical gibberish, Glifted's debut offering manages to inject some excitement into a genre that's found itself on autopilot for most of the past decade. Instead of attempting the standard dreamy spacerock aesthetic of comparable modern day acts, Lash and Harrison move in a wholly unique direction. Utilizing a pointedly more minimalist approach to song composition, grouping ample numbers of segmented tape loops a la Terry Riley with a wall of guitar (and effects processors) in tight precision; Under and In sounds like an epiphany. Beginning with the Steve Reichinfluenced vocal drone of \"Is There Any Always\", Glifted weaves a creative patchwork of limitless textures and hypnoses built upon an otherwise tenuous foundation of noise and sonic abstraction. With Lash's incoherent vocals sounding like George Harrison on Thorazine, a staccato guitar riff swirls on at perpetuity as Tubeway Army keyboards work their way up the listener's spinal column and into his cortex. T.J. Harrison's searing basslines complement the brutal beat the audience is caressed by Lash's ambient drone while simultaneously battered by ferocious percussion. On \"Baby's Blue\", Glifted presents an obvious homage to the likes of Can and Cluster, annealing Harrison's grooving bass with a synthetic wash of ride cymbals, jazzy guitar, and digital manipulation. \"Baby's Blue\" evolves slowly and subtly from a repetitive funk drum pattern, gradually expanding its orchestration before culminating in a flare of synthesizer that nearly drowns the accompanying rhythm. With the Moog finally on the verge of engulfing the song, \"Baby's Blue\" promptly fades out and leads into \"Heavy Ion\", a subtwominute instrumental built on a heavily distorted version of the very same bassline. The pairing of these two tracks illustrates Glifted's ability to flesh out thematics by cycling them rapidly through numerous incarnations and styles, one of their strongest attributes.Under and In is an album devoid of wasted notes, selfindulgence, and contrived atmosphere. Every hallucinogenic element seems to flow unconsciously from the ether, titillate, and vanish without a trace. \"Every Single Second\" bears a distinct resemblance to material from Hum's final album, Downward Is Heavenward, but where the 1998 release often stumbled from protracted noodling, \"Every Single Second\" is a concise statement adding The Byrds' psychrock haze to a sparse Matt Talbott riff. \"Last in Line\" also recalls Lash's work with Hum, but adds levels of subsonic depth and impressionistic harmonic tendencies invisible in the Hum catalog. \"The Ground\" is a throbbing mass of impending hysteria a nightmarish maelstrom of seething pink noise, supercolliding vocals and guitars, granulation and reverb. At once beautiful and horrific, \"The Ground\" is both a howling ode to the innovation of Kevin Shields, and a shrieking reproval of his limitations. Parallels will inevitably be drawn between Glifted and Matt Talbott's new band Centaur, who also released their debut album in late 2002. It must be noted, however, that the only case for comparison is the band that put them both on the map. Artistically and dynamically, Talbott and Tim Lash have moved in entirely different directions with ostensibly different objectives. Centaur's In Streams is an excellent rock album demonstrating Talbott's talents as a songwriter, but it suggests no real upward mobility. Tim Lash's Under and In exhibits an understanding of musical plasticity that eludes the former Hum frontman. In taking the anachronism of \"shoegazing\" and fusing it with the ambient plurality of people like Ekkehard Ehlers and Rafael Toral, Glifted have unveiled one of the most compelling noisepop records I've ever encountered. "}