{"label":" Rephlex","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3432/homepage_large.a53b82fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Global Goon","title":"Vatican Nitez","text":" Rephlex have never got beyond being recognized as the label that Aphex helped to build. Though he's not released anything significant on the label, the Aphex ghost wanders nightly through its halls. Sometimes that spectral presence is so strong that people are ready to mistake artists entirely unrelated to Aphex as being him by another name. Johnny Hawk, who records under the wahoo Global Goon alias is a victim of mistaken identity. Hawk's debut album, 1996's Goon, was widely credited to Aphex. Guess it didn't bug him. But just a cursory listen to Goon would have let the secret out that Global Goon and Aphex were not born from the same pod; Hawk doesn't share Aphex's appreciation for modern composition and freakout. That album, while absurd, owes more to the slomo wing of Braindance than to the splattercore cadre. Its opening track, \"St. Michael\" is the IDM cousin of the Fall's \"Birmingham School of Business School\" both share a straightfaced Dadaist's reading of university course catalogs. \"Synchropeet\" is a ploddingly accompanied vocal raga for the Mogadondependent. Hawk's followup to Goon, Cradle of History, collected twenty Casio melodies and confirmed his position within the lightly comic section of the Braindance organization. Now, with his third album, Vatican Nitez, Hawk deftly combines these two threads together to produce an amalgam of absurdly fauxnaif tuneful IDM.Vatican Nitez doesn't waste time with an intro (hooray!) it's straight into \"Business Man\" and into forty minutes of smileinducing nuttiness. One of the first noticeable differences between this and earlier works is that it sounds as though Hawk's got access to much better equipment these days. The album doesn't sound cheap a gimmick that long ago lost its currency. Because he's no longer obscured by hiss, I can fully appreciate the Goon's concealed artistry. \"Jerky Dharma\" turns a dalliance with vaguely Asian tonalities into something much less patronizing. During \"I'm on the 73,\" Hawk attempts to conceal his invention by sending every musical element through an immense echo chamber. Despite his most ardent efforts, you can easily discern his idiosyncratic skill. \"Kreem Ballet\" sums up in five minutes all seven studio volumes of Pete Namlook's Dark Side of the Moog series, and further slaps down Namlook with a firstrate No Pussyfooting impression. The midtempo mystery named \"Stan's Slaves\" possesses such a powerful undertow that I'd love to hear what Hawk could do in collaboration with Goldfrapp. \"!\" carries on the exploration of tidal currents, adding whistling and woodblock percussion. But by the time the album gets to \"Scott Cronce Is the CEO,\" Hawk has lost steam. The swathes of ambience and the ropethick Tubeway Army tune totally crush the generic hiphop beats underneath. Hawk heaps some analog squiggles on top in a vain effort to distinguish the track. \"Globy Dubes, Champeen of All Americky\" nearly suffers from the same malady. But Hawk ends up correcting previous error by shooting nervy breakneck sequencer lines through the plodding hiphop and the squiggles. Though Hawk's latest suggests that spending some chillout time with John Paul II isn't as awkward as I'd have suspected, Vatican Nitez is far from revolutionary. Unlike former labelmate, Leila, Hawk isn't trying to redefine a sound. If you're satisfied with that, Vatican Nitez is a satisfying enough means of cerebral exertion. "}