{"label":" Amigo","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3433/homepage_large.245f5bdb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Global Home Project","title":"SOLA","text":" Keyboardist and composer Lars Hollmer came to prominence in the 70s as a member of the famed Swedish avantprog outfit Samla Mammas Manna. Theirs was a particularly warm brand of outthere rock, especially as it took into account Scandinavian folk influences, polka and children's music as much as flashy instrumental virtuosity or the usual extraneous indulgences most people associate with prog. As bands of this sort go, they were actually quite popular in their native country, as well as having ties to Henry Cow and the gonealmostassoonasitstarted Rock In Opposition collective. Fred Frith would use them as his backing band for much of his solo record Gravity, and after the demise of Samla (or more accurately, Zamla it's a long story), Hollmer started the shortlived Von Zamla ensemble, based on similar principles of carnivalesque folk melodies, improvisation and heady instrumental workouts. Since then, he's released a series of accordion and keyboardbased solo albums, and even received Sweden's equivalent to a Grammy award. Okay, so what I really need to tell you is to pick up some Samla records now. Start with Klossa Knapitatet and Maltid, and then work your way through Schlagerns Mystik and Famljesprickor. After that, check out Von Zamla, and possibly one of their side projects like Ensemble Nimbus. Enough? No? Then you're in luck, because Hollmer's latest project, the Global Home Project, is one of his best. The project features some of the best musicians in Japan's underground experimental underground (whom he met in Japan, playing Samla tunes as his touring band in that country), playing a mix of cinematic vignettes and goodnatured avantprog. \"Nationsjazz\" begins things on a very hectic note a repetitive violin melody is doubled by clarinet, giving it a quasiKlezmer feel pushing to the breaking point by Tatsuya Yoshida's manic percussion and Hollmer's completely incontrol accordion. The bridge opens the sound considerably as the melodies become more stretched out, and the clarinet (courtesy of de facto band organizer Wataru Okhuma) begins to wander into jazzskronk territory now and again. If I had to pick a genre, I might go with circusprog. The very different \"Ljuva Lägen\" features a restless, sentimental piano line from Hollmer and a gorgeous violin melody played by Yuriko Mukoujima. The overall feeling is not unlike what you might hear in a colorful CGIanimated short about a love story between a bee and a fish or something it's superficially pretty, but also a bit juxtaposed, as the melodies are always pushed by Yoshida's drums and Hollmer's perpetually moving piano lines. \"Continue\" features Hollmer's modest vocals over an elegantly propulsive arrangement featuring accordion, violin and clarinet. The melody is at once reminiscent of modern Euroambiencd along the lines of Enya (in a good way, if that's possible) and the 19th century artsong of Franz Schubert. Once again, the accordion serves as pulse keeper, and Yoshida is content to color around the edges with his cymbals as the violin plays descant to Hollmer's tenor. \"Arp Violin\" keeps the classical motif running with its chamber group arrangement, airy violin melody and accordion ostinatos. The entire record seems to have been mixed to simulate a stage performance full of natural reverb and a great big ensemble sound. My complaint with the record is not much to do with the songs themselves, but rather that Hollmer never really taps into the greatest strengths of his band to push the music into higher realms. For the most part, this is a very good Hollmer solo disc, though it might have been something incredible had he opened the floor to the group interaction that Samla used to do so well. A tune like \"Parallel Angostura,\" with its angular figures and operatic baritone vocal lines, seems to have been written to suit Yoshida, though it comes out a tad on the rigid side because the musicians may be playing too close to the score. On the other hand, those vocals are pretty great it's not as if anyone outside of the RIO bands ever played this stuff better anyway. Again, you really should steal the first Samla disc you come across before diving in to this one though in the end, you can hardly go wrong with Hollmer. I can honestly say he's the coolest accordionprogimprovcircusexperimentalNordicfolkpolkaallaround generally eclectic musician I've heard. Can you really live without that? "}