{"label":" Robosapien","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3447/homepage_large.bc8bab3d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Goa","title":"Goa!","text":" From the getgo, Montreal's Goa remind me of a certain infamous Japanese band known for hardcore yelps and krautrock raves. This Canadian band, fronted by Monstre (also known as \"(o)\", sometimes even known by his real name Phillipe Lambert) plays music admittedly influenced by Boredoms (and Can and Sun Ra, among others); right down to the colorful magicmarker sleeve design, it's obvious they aren't messing around with homage. Their sound takes elements of recent Boredoms, Beastie Boysstyle raregrooves funk, and what appears to be a love of Muppetvoices (I'm thinking Elmo), all in the name of an outoffocus hodgepodge of beats and drone. For the most part, I try not to get too hung up on similarities between bands, but in this case, it's something of a distraction. \"Ah\" wastes no time in referencing sounds that Boredoms have recently made famous, as its primal, techno thud drums and filtered, majorchord synthoid arrangement reveal more than a passing fancy with Japan's finest punks turned hippies. After the short introduction, hardcore drums crash through and the spaceage cutup strains of \"Biyah\" get their due. Where this might have been garage trash in another era, here it's almost like an alien's idea of hip hop, with Monstre's \"vocals\" scratched and looped to the point where they cease being syllables and become percussive accents. \"Chika\" slows the beat down, but keeps the turntable vox (which sound eerily close to Mike Patton's chikchik exclamations on the last Bungle LP). It also adds a church organ drone, and if you ever questioned Goa's will to pogo into trance, this tune will be happy to thrash you into submission. The final track \"Ih\" stands to garner the most comparisons to Boredoms, as its tropicalthemed ambience courtesy of beach sounds and noises from distant island fetes is coupled with Germanimported communal trance; a chorus of shakers and bongos rage on like the younger, goofier cousin to Super Ae. The extended outro sounds almost directly lifted from Vision Creation Newsun, with plenty of electrofilter to blur the edges of their jungle bounce. Monstre's everpresent squeaks aren't quite the celebratory war cries that Eye used on his records, but then Goa isn't exactly on the same transcendent tip either. Goa was named after a grotto in Bali (Goa Gajah), and it seems like there should be a way to make exotic, hypnotic music that doesn't necessarily have to make obvious connections to bands like Can or Boredoms. Monstre speaks of the amazing Gamelan music he heard there, and I wonder if Goa wouldn't be more interesting taking an approach similar to another lauded tribal trance band, Vibracathedral Orchestra, and chase down their jams with a tad less emphasis on outright \"groove\", instead opting for less predictable terrain. Surely, there's more than one way to get high. "}