{"label":" Gold Standard Laboratories","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3457/homepage_large.483f249e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"GoGoGo Airheart","title":"Exitheuxa","text":" So listen, it would bore both of us for me to run through the canon of British postpunk and 70s NYC rock bands to whom San Diego's GoGoGo Airheart owes some debts. The other day, I was reading a music magazine that actually started comparing new bands to the Liars, that new act has suffered under so much namedropping that you can now use them as shorthand for a whole bunch of other bands: PiL, Gang of Four, etc, etc, etc. So rather than play rock paleontologist and dig up old bands that GoGoGo Airheart reminds us of, let's look at what makes them different. You can hear echoes of many styles in Exitheuxa, their fourth fulllength, but nothing undercuts their own sound. Michael Vermillion and bassist Ashish Vyas swap lead vocals; Benjamin White plays lead guitar, sometimes joined by Vermillion; and J Frederic Hough plays drums. The overall impression is of loose, easypaced rock, back from the beach but ready for business, and injected with some postpunk to make it more jagged. It's not uptight enough to sound spastic or jittery, but at times it gets squirrely for example, in both singers' wavery, twisted vocals that occasionally (but only occasionally) break or yelp. And there are the guitars, ragged and raucous but locked in a firm powersharing arrangement with a standup rhythm section. The album's greatest strength is its easy inventiveness. The songs go from a reggae beat on \"Witch Hunt\" to minuteandahalf rock blasts like \"Sit and Stare\"; Jason Crane's trumpet rings over the sparse guitars and bass of \"Nice Up the Dance\", and the organ on \"Meet Me at the Movies\" pastes an accordionlike sound on the song's exotic slow pace. Taken apart, it's surprising how different each of the tracks seem, and more surprising, that they fit together seamlessly: instead of throwing a dozen influences in your face, the band seems to ease into new tactics and make themselves at home. All that keeps Exitheuxa from being exceptional is that the songwriting, while solid, could use more standout hooks. \"Here Comes Attack\" and \"Sincerely P.S.\" include some great riffs, \"When the Flesh Hits\" has a casual but catchy dance beat, and Vyas doesn't play a single dull bassline: many of his parts are insidious, especially on \"Nice Up the Dance\" and \"My Baby Has a Gang (Sign Our Hearts)\". But it's the album as a whole that sticks in your mind. It's extremely cohesive and assured the kind of rare disc that can justify every strange direction it takes. "}