{"label":" GSL","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3458/homepage_large.3e8dfd6e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"GoGoGo Airheart","title":"Rats! Sing! Sing!","text":" Gogogo Airheart have played for 13 years, but never to the same ecstatic reception as Futureheads or Franz Ferdinand. Once upon a time, those bands supported Airheart on tour; now the Sunderland and Glasgow acts are crossing over while the San Diego band quietly releases Record No. 6. Forgive the apples and pears, but Airheart, like Franz and Futureheads, make trendy, canonmashing rock. So where's the viability? Great singles help, great albums clinch, but Gogogo Airheart never got past step one: applying the polish. On Rats! Sing! Sing!, the band nail a losing formula, blending familiar sounds bratty discopunk, brooding college rock, white boy dub without the usual giveaways. Fouronthefloor foundations, for instance, are tapped out on big, untreated drums, not the tampeddown 70s cans purveyed by James Murphy or Kudu. Even the most rigid numbers are permitted a sly swing, whether by sloven (\"So Good\") or doubledrummed funk (\"Double Bummer\"). Trebly guitars don't illbecome any of these songs, but Airheart's are particularly crispy; for a truly facesingeing experience, see \"Lie With a Lamb\" or \"Shake It Off\", whose rollicking, sunbaked guitar solo would make fellow SoCal'er Stephen Malkmus proud. It's actually rarer for bands to buck trend at this superficial end of the spectrum, especially when they make a conscious effort of it. Few begrudge pushing contrivance upon written material, but when it comes to aesthetics, the protocol is more restrictive. Rats! Sing! Sing!'s casual variety calls for a less specific stylization, but rather than hybridize Gogogo Airheart treat each song individually, which begets a number of interesting choices, some more successful than others. From piecemeal opener \"Rats\" the band extracts a Walkmenish scraggliness with sprinklings of wet piano and radio oscillations. Success! Walls of murky amplified sound vex \"Burn It Down\"'s straightforward surfrock. Cool! But \"Heart on a Chain\" is stripped down to the point of having a oneoff feel; the song seems to want to shake its breezy torpor and make a charge but it's foiled by a fade out. Arbitrary? From here down the record's backstretch the band stop making curious decisions confidently and quit deciding altogether. Grooves dissipate, vocals flop around in echo, riffs take a rain check. Like Jason Blake on a wraparound, Gogogo Airheart just can't finish. Only no one's blocking their net; the problem seems one of commitment. "}