{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3461/homepage_large.1ac5e08a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Gold Chains","title":"Young Miss America","text":" Topher Lafata, perhaps informed by an adolescence of Black Flag shows and slamdancing in his suburban Pennsylvania bedroom, is coming at this whole \"authenticity\" thing from a strange angle. Rather than play up his \"hardships\" or overcompensate for a lack of ghetto wisdom, he gets by on sheer geekiness and neon indie funk. That isn't to say Gold Chains should retreat back to the server room, because when in doubt, he's more likely to lapse into sub Sir MixALot machinegun flow than drain a beat with glitchy, crystalline tomfoolery. To hear him tell it, the world revolves around only so many things, and it's probably a good thing he doesn't list race among them, as it wouldn't advance his cause very far anyway. The long and short of Gold Chains is wrapped up in insular, detailoriented aggression and a recurring love/hate relationship with cash money. Don't look for hard cred where it doesn't exist; he's just good, clean fun. Even more than fun, Lafata gets close to home on your ass especially if you're a young white male with time to burn. Throughout Young Miss America, his debut longplayer, he laments love lost over material and the fear of a life left empty over the pursuits of money and watching the strippers glisten in the sun. \"Citizens Nowhere, what do you want?\" he asks his constituency of desperately bored, vaguely ambitious turks. Let him be more specific: \"What do you want from me?\" He makes this inquiry in \"Let's Get It On\", in which the Gold Chains position is made perfectly clear. Never mind that he brings in an actual female to testify that it ain't all about the coldhard, this stuff will hit you hardest if you either believe everything he says (not likely), or dig the hooks. This album has hundreds of hooks, and I think that's Lafata's way of revealing which of his own personal philosophies he holds the most stock in. Gold Chains turns out beats okay, but his tunes might grab your postproduction fancy I counted not less than six complete backing track planBs before the chorus on the album's opener, \"Code Red\". Impressively, he manages to pull these tricks out of a largely samplefree bag, though what he gains by way of a fairly unique sound he often gives right back via arcadegoof organ patches and illadvised lapses into electropop when it seems he should be turning up the bass. Lafata boasts a \"record with no filler,\" and maybe he's going for the indie kids who don't buy the high BPMs, but when \"Several Times Defined\" busts of the gate with Farfisa and squeaky clean gogo beats, I get the impression I'm not supposed to be laughing at this. Similarly, \"The Game\" hits the razorsharp jazz piano in all the right places, but lines like, \"I just felt some magic, girl, and I think I just might be your type,\" don't seem like they'd go well over pogo stick, stoptime twostep. And they don't. Things get a lot more interesting when Lafata brings out the real guns, as on the Spaghetti Westerninformed, dancehall romp of \"Nada\". His voice is naturally brutish, so when his ideas and arrangements are kept in focus, the Gold Chains growl gathers no moss in addition to making his occasionally affected Jamaican accent much easier to take. This tune volleys from slowburn riddim mange to pretty convincing cinematic grandeur (check those cymbal crashes, John Williams), but when \"I.O.U. becomes 'you owe me'\" it's the beats and Lafata's persistence that sell his already amply stated warnings against greed. He even manages to stay funky for more than one verse at a time on \"Revolution\", though that he's stealing chord progressions from The Art of Noise probably says more about the record than anything. Still, get this man a remix gig for Justin Timberlake, stat. Moments here suggest Gold Chains could be really dangerous should he one day choose the big picture over the instant gratification of a thousand new directions. It's not as if Young Miss America is a necessarily incoherent experience and it certainly sounds like something aimed for parties (as opposed to, say, music for computer programming). In fact, his most endearing moments, such as the trashcan suave \"Break or Be Broken\" (imagine Louis Prima recast as an MC in heat), point to a future as either a very entertaining DJ, or the betweengirl entertainment at Big Daddy's XXX. One part Bustalite, and the rest fullon skater bravado: Gold Chains isn't going to tear up the world of hiphop, but he's not totally empty handed. "}