{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3462/homepage_large.697991b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Schreiber","artist":"Gold Chains","title":"Straight From Your Radio EP","text":" Got a copy of Straight From Your Radio a couple weeks back from the Tigerbeat carriage, which rolled upon the street majesterically, parking violations stickered to the canopy and Chains himself whippin' them lectrosteeds. Pulled up to the drive, sed somethin about somethin about STRAIGHT FROM YA RADIO SOMETHIN BEATS SOMETHIN SOMETHIN GOLD CHAINS SOMETHIN SOMETHIN BLOWIN OUT THE STREETS MUSIQUE CONCRETE MCs AT MY FEET SOMETHIN ALL AROUND ME SOMETHIN WHAT IS ONE TO DO! He really said some of that! And then, whap, horses runnin, people scared. Gold Chains and carriage banished from even peripheral sight. A disc materializing within the sweated palms of my hairy hands. Flames up the street, license plate spinnin. I ran to the Sony CDPCE525, yelled something at it, then gently, calmly, rationally fed it the compact. And then, from this dream I awoke me to the sound of my bedside alarm. I have tuned it, just so, between the local LiteFM and New Countries, lest I be soothed back into Tigerbeat dreams by an experimenting college DJ. I remember only moments of this vision, something involving a lost soccer shoe and a vegetable garden. But I wake with \"Straight From Your Radio\" bounding all up and around the skull, a song whose wicked wonderment I have experienced but a singular once. I put my fingers to my temples, begin shaking intensely, my nose bleeds, and a disc materializes within the sweated palms of my hairy hands. No one knows Gold Chains is a white guy cause he sounds like Ja Rule. Ja Rule, though, see, he's very sensitive to the needs of the ladies. You don't get that with Gold Chains. You get: \"Get dat cootchie over here I want to fuck it aww yeah, get dat cootchie lookin tight I want to lick it all night.\" To which a fine, upstanding citizen such as myself can only respond: \"WHOA! GOLD CHAINS!\" But that's his whole thing. And then the bass enters, throbbing like bursting genitals, a kickdrum as sturdy as any kickdrum these ears of mine could hope a kickdrum might be, an electronic ascending zwwwooop, the tch'ing hihats. And over this megadecibal dubby madness a sudden rhyme: \"I treat ya cootchie like a maze, com, plex, turn ya page,\" as though Rudy Ray Moore perchanced to freestyle a moment upon Chicago's dance beat, B96. Urban contemporary chartattack: the Tigerbeat krew loves this sound, as exhibit #A (the Kid606 Action Packed Mentallist CD) and exhibit #B (the Knifehandchop EP with remix'd DMX) vividly display. Is there great shame in this? Some indie sockheads would say that indeed the krew is young and has been fed the demonseed by evil Dr. Clear Channel and His TwoOrThreeSong Orchestra. Select indierthanthou characters, I am coming to accept, are just too freegin uptight. I had a revelation last fall, see, and it was called \"What About Us\" and it sounded like Massive Attack doin' anal with Björk. SOLD! A stream of revelations, a whole fuckin' John 3:16 of 'em: \"We Need a Resolution,\" \"Jumpin, Jumpin,\" \"What's Your Fantasy,\" \"Who We Be,\" \"Break Ya Neck,\" \"Shake Ya Ass,\" \"No More Drama,\" even Mya Mya singing \"Case of the Ex,\" baby, I fess! That's why I respect Gold Chains and Tigerbeat alike. The indie rock, bless its heart, it's my little sweet pumpkin and I kiss it all the time and bring it candies. But goddamn there's somethin so so fine 'bout them grittyazz beats detonating crunkly out the Eskyalade. Tigerbeat's like old rock n' roll without the surfing. It desires only fun, enjoyment, thrills and automobills. Fed through the intestines of triplesex urban pop and elitist electronica, thugged out for pretend, ironic and beautifully sincere. A Hallmark to Miss E, cc'd to Squarepusher and sealed with Kraftwerk stickers. Gold Chains, smooth as the silken dollar, plays the striking cobra to Peaches' nubile cameltoe, and when he's not talking explicitly about dick action, which is just about never, he's going off about them \"mountains of coke up in the V.I.P.\" and cheektonguing an Eric B bit about his superior mic skills. Straight From Your Radio, though: limited replay value. I like it cause it does not judge me, but other Tigerbeat lovers play me better and don't make me think about Ja. But Chains is good. He's good for one night. Honey that's all you need. "}