{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3463/homepage_large.66121abb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Wellins","artist":"Gold Chains","title":"Gold Chains EP","text":" Gold Chains' first EP, just reissued by PIAS, contains nearly thirty minutes of electronic hiphop in lagging, five minute tracks, all full of exuberant raps regarding the joys of partying and sex. Though at times it approaches cleverness, Gold Chains is inflexible in its ceaseless coverage of the tired, mindless subject matter. Topher LaFata revels in rhetoric. Here's a hiphop record by a guy who writes software the polar opposite of knocking boots and tries to get away with a Stereolab sample, excusing himself with a bandwagon appeal: Busta Rhymes did it, too. LaFata delivers quick jabs about gear over abrasive, crunching digital beats, but for his obvious aim to court backpackers, Gold Chains is entirely in line with hiphop LaFata probably considers himself more intelligent than. He's smugly aware of the builtin novelty of homemade hiphop since it became his culture's predominant popular music: the most brazen, ironist critics and numbed, partially deaf mainstream listeners all drive to their day jobs with the same Missy Elliott album slowly fraying the wires on their CD playertocassettedeck connection. LaFata takes this much for granted. Gold Chains could be taking the same approach as Kool Moe Dee, using hedonism, selfpromotion, and \"Iknowhe'sjustkiddingheisjustkiddingright?\" misogyny to confront either the innate obscurity of his genre, or his own daily frustrations. Unlike Kool Moe Dee, Erik B., or whatever pantheon artist Topher LaFata dreams of becoming, his style is a constructed pose, paying careful attention to the themes and execution of his influences, but completely lacking their significance. LaFata may have adopted the same willfully challenging approach a slew of underground hiphop artists have in the past decade Bomb HipHop, or the consistently lauded Def Jux but if that's his intent, the differences are even clearer. Take ElP, who grew up involved with hiphop, and tailored it to meet his artistic and personal needs, closeminded public be damned. Then take Gold Chains, who began his career outside the traditional hiphop family, as part of a marginalized group of Kit Clayton recordbuyers and computer programmers who strove to fit in. LaFata's drive for inclusion and gratification isn't damning in and of itself, but to gain entry to the wisecracking hiphop underground he envies, he goes to great lengths to alienate people, in hopes of artistic and \"street\" credibility. Yet, like that other inflammatory underground rapper, Cex, Gold Chains' grooves have implications beyond the noble intent to get a party started. There's a pervading sense that he's reacting to the lack of vitality in homemade music, especially homemade electronica. Chains' selftitled EP is partially a call to arms against a genre few people take seriously in the first place, the only genre that could support Gold Chains and the sheer kitsch value of a single like \"I Come From San Francisco\". His record is polemically opposed to the selfindulgent introspection of indie hiphop and bedroom electronica; as in rap's origins, the backing music is drawn from a relevant, immediate genre, positioning the emcee as a social critic. In his book An Emotional Memoir of Martha Quinn, Alan Licht suggests the main problem with the last decade of music is a lack of competition. He succinctly asks, \"Who does Belle and Sebastian want to be better than?\" While there's an immediate value to music that gets a room of people excited, dancing or at least interacting with each other, Gold Chains doesn't have any competition: he's one of scant few successful hiphop artists informed by artsy, suburban backgrounds and predominantly white electronica. Sans any real enemies, his playful fantasy of intergenre conflict is, for its brazenness and a few comedic highlights, ultimately impertinent. "}