{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3471/homepage_large.9c4026a8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Goldfrapp","title":"Supernature","text":" I should probably like this more than I actually do. Who doesn't want to get behind Alison Goldfrapp and company? She's nothing if not on the ball, having transformed herself from elegant mid90s Orbital cooer to elegant late90s spook to an equally timely role something like a cross between Kylie Minogue and PJ Harvey, between Annie and Siouxsie Sioux, between Rachel Stevens and Beth Gibbons, the eviltwin model of the shimmery dancefloor princessbot. And Supernature kicks off with that flag flying high, on \"Ooh La La\": some hard schaffel, some handclapping glamrock stomp, some dangerously icy taunting, and enough Germanic electrohouse action to make you want to drop it like it's cold, ruthlessly efficient, and strangely angular. Why do I have a sick suspicion that this is how awesome Peaches thinks she sounds? So I do halfgo for it, from that first rush of ice to the veins to the dots of oldmodel cabaret spook that crop up later, and from there through the buzz and pulse of the inbetween. Witchy English vibes, analog synth surgery, superhuman icyvulnerable vocals, and production that sounds alternately like highpolish chrome and a sucking black hole: What more do I usually ask for? Well, something, obviously, because somewhere along the line I lose it. Maybe it's the part where Alison wants to \"ride on a white horse,\" though I suppose there's both a halfdecent hero/heroin joke and a T. Rex reference in there. Maybe it's the part where I remember that I have Gary Numan and Siouxsie albums I still haven't listened to it enough. Or maybe it's just the peculiar plaint of the electro dancepop fulllength: the sound of those midtempo albumcompleting tracks. They're effortlessly organized, full of so much dense trebly shimmer and helium swooning and sighing that you actually zone out and stop hearing them, right up until you realize your ears hurt a little from taking it all in. They're loads of effort poured into a product that winds up sounding like nothing in particular, immaculate synth arrangements not quite making up for the fact that the song will neither bang and swell nor relax into a dreamy lull. If Alison were Kylie, she could at least spice things up by switching modes sunny here, earnest here, then back to machinetooled intimidation. Alison, being Alison, has to stay all witchy all the time. And there's the nonshocker: This is sure to sound better in the variegated sweep of a good DJ mix something that's not, given the present currency of \"electrohouse,\" so difficult to come across. The bangers here will sound fab on the pop ends of said mixes, \"Ooh La La\" owning all. The tracks that lapse back into Goldfrapp's old Felt Mountain electronicchanteuse mold will sound fine in your apartment. (\"U Never Know\" and \"Let it Take You\" make a gorgeous break from the ultradense buzz, getting progressively softer, silkier, and more minimal.) But plenty of these tracks keep feeling like exercises: too thick and melodic to work like dance music, but with melodies that refuse to stick as satisfyingly as pop. Which makes this pretty much what you'd expect: the primetime flagship of glammy electroid dancefloor pop, curiously expensivesounding and accessible to all, but strangely stripped of the functionalism of the dance record and the full thrills of pop. Sometimes that lands it in the sweet spot. Just as often, though, it seems to have forgotten what in the world it was meant to offer in the first place. "}