{"label":" Columbia / Ruffhouse / Ovum","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3474/homepage_large.5f045eaf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By James P. Wisdom","artist":"Goldie","title":"INCredible Sound of Drum-n-Bass","text":" Something was stirring the cobwebs in my brain, that's for sure. The Hippie thought I'd strained something, but I knew it was Goldie. As INCredible Sound of DrumnBass piped through my speakers and 'phones, I began to think of another album Urbal Beats 2. Y'see, 1998's UB2 was a doubledisc compilation of skillfully DJ'd tracks that served a higher purpose. Disc One was nuskool, fresh hits and Disc Two brought back some fatass gems from the vault, again proving that old techno isn't necessarily bad techno. INCredible Sound of DrumnBass works on a similar premise Spectrum (Disc One), splits drumnbass into a wide range of colors ranging on the new side, most tracks coming from '97 to '99. Goldie's Metalheadz label is represented heavily tracks by Alex Reece, Doc Scott and Codename John give way to acidjazzy compositions like Digital's \"Space Funk.\" It's comprised of tight, wellchosen tracks that stretch boundaries instead of pants.INCredible's second disc, Retro, recalls the Disc Two of UB2. It's largely composed of older tracks that sound, frankly, like a walk down memory lane. I remember back in the day when \"Terminator\" was on all the floors. Used to be, you could got a pill for just $10 bucks back then, but half'd kill ya. In any case, even if you haven't necessarily heard all of these tracks in this mutation, you've likely heard pieces of them sampled on other songs. Goldie contributes not only 1993's \"Terminator\" but 1994's \"Manslaughter.\" He also brings Neil Trix, Optical, J Majik, Source Direct and Matrix, mixing housefun sensibility with live drumnbass intensity to pleasing effect. But as with UB2, the older sounds almost surpass the newer material the hindsight of a couple of years provide clarity for Goldie's vision. In short, INCredible Sound of DrumnBass is for the following people: Old people trying to fit into their baggy pants Pacifiersuckers whose teeth have fallen out Youngsters that are curious about \"the old days\" but want a disc of new stuff, too The bicurious: those willing to try drumnbass, but frightened of the \"harsh stuff\" Worshipers of the Metalheadz crew, Goldie, and the jungle/techstep way It is not for the following people: Your mom The lady downstairs whose breath stinks of cigarettes and coffee People in search of relaxation Swing dancers Baba booey That's it. Move along. Nothing to see here. "}