{"label":" Road Cone","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3483/homepage_large.2e53ee71.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Goodheart Allen Powell Trio","title":"I Can Climb a Tree, I Can Tie a Knot, I Can Have a Conversation","text":" Contrary to popular belief, the scariest part of any horror movie is not the moment when the psychotic killer springs out from behind some inconspicuous chunk of scenery and plunges his machete into the heart of his poor, unsuspecting victim. The truly frightening part of any scary film lies in those painstakingly drawnout moments before the bloody death when the soontobe victim is creeping through some deserted mansion/wharf/warehouse as a string section pulsates toward some crescendo that always lingers just vaguely out of reach. This is the unsettling part, not because of anything that's happening onscreen, but because of what the audience knows must be coming. The question is never what will happen, but when. And the best horror films are those that toy with the audience, always keeping the answer to that ubiquitous question a surprise. The same principals, in many ways, hold true to jazz. As magnificent as a spirited freeimprovised burst of ballsout drumthumping, vicious bassplunking, bloodrushing hornskronking, and furious pianothumping may be, the true measure of a band is how they find their way in and out of such moments, how they build, foreshadow and sneak quietly away after the deed is done. The Goodheart Allen Powell Trio knows enough to linger on the quiet moments. The first four minutes of the trio's debut recording, I Can Climb a Tree, I Can Tie a Knot, I Can Have a Conversation bears resemblance to John Cage's early chance orchestrations or the Art Ensemble of Chicago in their most abstract form. Silences abound, sounds come in spurts and often step on each other's toes. While there's an innate feeling that the musicians are responding to each other, at times it seems they're playing by a logic only they can understand. By the time saxophonist Josh Allen pipes in with our first hints of structure riffing on the first few notes of \"Amazing Grace,\" no less we've already grown comfortable with the idea of this loosefitting avantjazz trio. But when Matthew Goodheart and Garth Powell jump on this bandwagon (playing piano and percussion, respectively), sending the jam flying out of orbit and into the aforementioned wildandcrazy avantfreakout stuff, all notions of comfort are thrown out the window. This is when, with one welltimed cymbalcrash, the whole thing comes to a dead halt. Then, against a backdrop of silence, as if to comfort the unnerved listener, Goodheart plunks out a soothing lullaby. Before the song, entitled \"Waiting for Our Careers to Take Off,\" is over, this, too, will have mutated into another one of these freakouts. Still, the noisy moments are atypical. Most of I Can Climb a Tree is quiet, subtle. Indeed, these occasional spurts of madness seem present mostly for contrast's sake, to grab you by the shirtsleeve before shifting back to quiet exploration. Any good horror film will have its fair share of suspenseful moments that build to a letdown. You know, those scenes where a character creeps down a dark hallway, his fear heightened by clichéd music, opens the door, and the audience subconsciously braces themselves, only to find the character's friend standing on the other side of the door? These scenes serve to build suspense. Similarly, songs like \"The Water is Wet,\" which register as little more than dynamic ripples after the drastic shifts of the two opening tracks, serve to string listeners along, which makes those songs which do crescendo (like the comparatively straightforward \"Accumulation #1\") that much more effective. All this comes as a pleasant surprise to the music critic who, seeing three names he didn't recognize on the cover of a jazz album, immediately became skeptical. But not only are Goodheart, Allen and Powell all solid musicians in their own right, they also work together in such a way that makes it difficult to believe this is only their first recording together. Granted, a look at their lineage explains a lot. These are musicians who've worked with the likes of Eugene Chadbourne, Cecil Taylor and Mats Gustafsson; it's no wonder their music is so damned seamless, tight enough that they must be scripted, yet too natural and too bizarre to be anything but improvised. This is a group that frolics at first, loose notes falling where they may, only to snap to attention like a terrified private at the first sound of his commander's gruff voice. At times, the Goodheart Allen Powell Trio may seem random, but they're anything but imprecise. Continually surprising, yes. But not scary in the least. "}