{"label":" Tuolumne","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3488/homepage_large.fc5c5f58.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Gorilla Monsoon","title":"Gorilla Monsoon","text":" In the last year, we as a nation have undergone great tragedy. Paul McCartney wrote \"Freedom\", and Neil Young penned \"Let's Roll\". Bruce Springsteen even erected a longplaying monument to the victims of September 11th. Yet still, the pain lingers on, prompting the question: has anyone tried making a prowrestlingthemed hardcore album? The answer, thanks to Gorilla Monsoon, is now a resounding, \"Hell yeah!\" Festering in Brooklyn like some disease that should have been wiped out in the nineteenth century, Gorilla Monsoon is one of the more unusual bands making music today. Named for the late president of the World Wrestling Federation, their eponymous debut is dedicated to exploring the many facets of the prowrestling world in more idyllic, less terrorridden times. In those halcyon days, the WWF had no upstart and Osama bin Ladenlike competitors, and Hulk Hogan's ongoing feud with Andre the Giant was as unambiguous a representation of goodversusevil as America and France. So what, you may ask, does Gorilla Monsoon have to say on this subject? Let's begin with song titles: \"20 Foot Snake & 20 Inch Mullet (J.S. Roberts)\", \"Thank God Donald Trump's a HulkaManiac!\", and \"Somebody in This Room Punched King Kong Bundy in the Arm\". Unfortunately, for all the gargantuan promise contained therein, they provide precious little insight into the wondrous subtleties of the WWF. The lyrics, only featured on the surefire classic \"R. Piper vs. J. Snuka\", consist solely of muddled shouts in the background which sound like nothing more than the names of the titular combatants. Now, a largely instrumental album about wrestling could still be a wonderful thing a soundtrack to the drama of Hulk Hogan miraculously recovering from a nearcoma to whomp his opponent, perhaps but here, too, Gorilla Monsoon falls short of their lofty goal. Quite simply, the music on Gorilla Monsoon is unredeemed. It will not, I dare say, do for the WWF what Miles Davis' A Tribute to Jack Johnson did for boxing (i.e., avoid making it look like the stopmotion devolution it is). This album captures not so much the experience of wrestling as laying on the couch in your pajamas watching wrestling for so long that you begin to feel sick and lose the will to go on living. If this is your bag, then this, and perhaps no other record, will do. The members of Gorilla Monsoon may be funny in real life their song titles are at least circumstantial evidence of this but the fact that no personality, charm, wit, or... anything that could be called real music with a straight face was captured on this disc is enough to make you wish recording equipment weren't so easy to come by. Maybe, like Dark Side of the Moon and The Wizard of Oz, it works fantastically well played over \"Monday Night RAW\". That's a stretch, of course, but in order to be appreciated on any level, Gorilla Monsoon requires stretching; about as much as childbirth, or at least fisting. "}