{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/350/homepage_large.e0517468.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Auburn Lull","title":"Regions Less Parallel: Early Works & Rarities MCMXCVI-MMIV","text":" I'd love to know what synesthetes see when they listen to Auburn Lull. The band makes such monumentally icy music that I can't imagine primary colors having anything to do with it this music is washedout amber, fuzzy offwhite, glimmering silver, lacking sharp contrast and exhalting the distances between sounds. It's an approach Auburn Lull have taken throughout their career, and it's yielded a body of work that could be easily criticized as homogenous indeed most people won't need more than one of their records. Without paying close attention, it's easy not to notice the passage of tracks and the subtle shifting of moods and textures, but that's also what makes this retrospective of the band's nonLP material so satisfying. The songs may be drawn from across a decade, but they have a shared aesthetic. Personalities of individual musicians are beside the point in this music. Guitars, bells, synths, even vocals and drums coalesce into a diaphanous whole where melodies move in languid waves and rhythm is often more subliminal than obvious. Take \"TI99\", for instance: Sean Heenan lays down a web of oscillatorgenerated drones, creating a billowy breath of a song whose textures are not terribly unlike the ones created with guitars elsewhere on the set. \"A Harbored Distance\" and \"Steady Light\" are more traditional songs, ground in reverbsoaked drums rhythms and straightforward vocal melodies, but both have that smeared Auburn Lull approach that draws everything hazily toward the other elements. \"Van Der Graaf\" has a slightly more metallic texture than its counterparts, a darker brushed steel tone that sets it slightly apart. The biggest standout, though, is \"Rural Divide\", a stunning track that's among the band's best to date. Quite unlike most of the band's catalog, the song features a prismatic midsection that sets a muffled sample of a woman speaking amidst swirling somethings that sound like a cross between electric piano, Tomorrowland synths, and ebowed guitars. Auburn Lull make a beautiful noise, and if you already have one of their albums and are looking for more, you'll love what you hear on this. It's also not a bad place to start, but I'd suggest for Alone I Admire for that purpose. But Regions Less Parallel demonstrates how having a limited signature sound isn't necessarily a negative, so long as a band realizes the many places it can travel within those limits. "}