{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3496/homepage_large.a1c20c6f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Gorky's Zygotic Mynci","title":"Sleep/Holiday","text":" Between billy goats and the Bambino there's been a lot of talk about curses and the cursed in recent weeks. The idea that misfortune specifically follows some isn't limited to pro sports: Theater has the Macbeth curse, Hollywood has the curse of Superman, and politics has the curse of the Kennedys. In music, Screamin' Jay Hawkins put a spell on you, Bark Psychosis produced one frequently brilliant Hex, and we've learned that incanting the alarmingly unPC \"Ooo eee/ Ooo ah ah/ Ting tang/ Walla walla bing bang\" was the way to win a woman's heart, but the closest there's been to any sort of supposed curse is the one claimed to follow \"Helter Skelter\". One band that could qualify as, at the very least, extremely unlucky is Gorky's Zygotic Mynci, who have the misfortune of holding the record for charting the most singles in the UK without reaching the top 40 (eight through this October). Gorky's just missed the mark by a few spots on three occasions and although, yeah, crashing it at #37 and dropping out the next week didn't make bands like Northern Uproar or Geneva household names, it couldn't have hurt for Gorky's to have gained the wide exposure that comes with breaking the seal of the top 40, and therefore appearing on the UK's nationally broadcast Official Chart Show and having the possibility of performing on Top of the Pops. On the cusp of breaking through, Gorky's retreated from spotlight seeking, major labels, and the whimsical psychedelia of their past. (Highlights of the first half of the band's career was compiled earlier this year on 20). The result has reaped some of their richest works Spanish Dance Troupe, The Blue Trees, and How I Long to Feel That Summer which together make a enchanting second act in the life of one of the most quietly satisfying bands of the past decade. On Sleep/Holiday, Gorky's continue to explore delicate pastoralisms (piano and violin are increasingly pronounced and serve as the foundation of much of the band's sound), albeit with slightly more mixed results than usual. Though still often warm and tender, Sleep/Holiday lacks the surprise or the diversity of some of their better work, and their one attempt to reconcile that (the single \"Mow the Lawn\") is stunted and forced, lacking the playful brisk smiles of previous raveups such as \"Spanish Dance Troupe\" or \"Poodle Rockin'\". It's an anomaly, however, and not indicative of why or how this record too much of which drifts along making a lovely sound without really sticking its hooks in you falls short of the band's other recent efforts,. A couple of those moodier pieces (the reflective waltz \"Single to Fairwater\" and the droning, hymnal \"Pretty as a Bee\") work, but too often songs pass without incident or interest. When things go right, Gorky's still make a positively lovely sound, particularly the gorgeous, plaintive opening pair, \"Happiness\" and \"Waking for Winter\", each of which along with the jaunty \"Eyes of Green, Green, Green\" seems to chase and cast off the ghosts that haunted Gorky's on previous albums. The former is a soulsearching song about willing good things to happen to oneself after pain. On the latter, singer Euros Childs no longer longs for summer but becomes animated by the winter cold. After the sense of tangible, deep loss of Spanish Dance Troupe and the desire for warmth and comfort on their two subsequent records, Gorky's conjures a very autumnal sound and a longrejected willingness to accept pain, cursed luck, and changes for the worst. Childs braces for winter in his recollections of former lovers, the departed, and missed opportunities. As the title indicates, he still harbors hopes for escape into dreams, to the south of France, to the country but those desires seem, and sound, overwhelmed by feelings of exhaustion. "}