{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3500/homepage_large.e464ac89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Gossip","title":"Arkansas Heat EP","text":" I remember The Gossip. In late 2000, they released their Kill Rock Stars debut, That's Not What I Heard, to heaps of critical praise and comparisons to thenupandcomers The White Stripes. Though mere teenagers, the Searcy, Arkansasbased group was lauded for their prodigious skill at mangling the blues and channeling classic rock through a decidedly riotgrrl filter. Stylistically, the group veered toward the seedier side of bluesinfused rock and roll, but coming, as they did, from a middleofnowhere burg, their sound seemed somewhat less of a contrivance than that of their likeminded peers. Which is not to say they do it better, just that it seemed a bit more authentic. And now we arrive at their followup, Arkansas Heat, the results of which are mixed but still largely entertaining. Pitchfork policy demands that I review the CD version of this EP, though I suspect the mangled sounds of Arkansas Heat would be pleasantly exaggerated if played on an terminally fucked turntable. It's that kind of music, with shades of classic rock subversion permeating each dense guitar blast, and Beth Ditto's growling, vaguely feline vocals perfectly compliment the roughedged sensibilities of guitarist Nathan Brace and drummer Kathy Mendonca. The record's first five tracks pummel at nearlightning speed, with songs like \"Rules for Luv\" magically evoking both the Rolling Stones and Gang of Four, and the exuberant, driving chorus of \"Ain't It the Truth\" coming so strong it nearly redeems the track's blatant selfconsciousness. These eventually build to \"(Take Back) Revolution,\" a 10+ minutelong fractured jam that has Beth Ditto singing, \"Okay, this is for the kids/ So I wanna hear you loud, and I wanna know/ You want revolution/ And can you feel it?/ Are you ready/ Take back!/ Revolution!\" Putting aside my personal qualms with bands who namecheck 'the kids,' it's a coy maneuver to resort to these Huggy Bearlike ideological theatrics over a rousing Howlin' Wolfstyle guitar line especially since the former helped to complicate rock music's sexual politics, and the latter can be used as a tool to effectively silence conversations about sexual politics if played in the right context. Of course, there's always been a political undercurrent in The Gossip's vintage jukejoint; their friction between sound and lyrical content is like Kathleen Hanna reading the Riot Act at a Delta Blues festival. Which is kind of fun, so long as the message doesn't overwhelm the music. You see, Arkansas Heat does, however subtly, mark a shift towards Olympia's trademark scene, which, if not properly restrained, could compromise the essential 'funhaving' factor in the their bluesrock equation. Fortunately, they're still in the clear this time out. Still, if they want to remain unalloyed amongst the evergrowing cadre of rock and blues revivalists, they'd better keep their collective heart just west of Memphis in Searcy. "}