{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3511/homepage_large.3a8b150a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brent DiCrescenzo","artist":"Grandaddy","title":"Signal to Snow Ratio EP","text":" Americans, we have to take the power back. Grandaddy have become darlings of the British press, that cruel lover. We must love them more. Grandaddy could easily drum up stateside affection with their new EP, Signal to Snow Ratio. A brief burst of infectious ideas, while sometimes specious, the EP packs as many subtle effects and pleasurable references that seem possible before bursting the pomo bubble in its 13 minutes. Maybe it's just the beards, but Grandaddy insouciantly pull off this lofi pastiche material with apparent reverence and minimal irony. Beards strangely instill a sense of sincerity in artists. Would Doug Martsch get away with his muppety voice if he looked like... say, Jon Spencer? Similarly, the Beta Band carry an air of sylvan devotion thanks to unchecked face follicles. Even hardcore bands have picked up on this simple formula: beards = intense cred. Bonus points for neck beards. Well, Grandaddy have the hooks to back up the beards. \"Hand Crank Transmitter\" rambles along like a folky Flaming Lips, complete with psychedelic speed strum solos and twinkling keys. Robotic vocoder voices lazily mumble over hissing cymbal samples and synthetic strings in \"Jeddy 3's Poem.\" The upbeat, fuzz bass driven \"MGM Grand\" bounces along with cheesy Styx sounds over Pavement riffs. \"Protected from the Rain\" opens like a homemade Who rock opera before melting into a tender piano ballad. Yet it's impossible to disassociate Grandaddy from their mentors Built To Spill, the Flaming Lips, and Pavement. Is there an echo in Pitchfork's cavernous archive of indie pop? I've gotten Carpal Tunnel just from typing \"Built to Spill\" so damn many times. Even worse, it's impossible to get past the name Grandaddy! Come on, Grandaddy?! The 13 minute duration blows the wispy memories of Signal to Snow Ratio with the brisk wind of disposability. You'll need the beards more than ever, guys. "}