{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3514/homepage_large.2e897b5d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Grandaddy","title":"Excerpts From the Diary of Todd Zilla EP","text":" Who will finally put the lie to the Manifest Destiny? Notwithstanding our current New Yorkcentric hipster circlejerk, westward expansion was a defining myth of the hippiedippie Baby Boomin' rock'n'roll gypsy show that ultimately spawned so much of what we now call Now That's What I Call Indie Pop, Vol. XIV. Yet no California frontier has more cruelly blindsided its pilgrims, from Okies to Mexicans to dangerously lost cork dorks, than Grandaddy's Central Valley. Latest offering Excerpts From the Diary of Todd Zilla suggests it's time for Grandaddy to leave Modesto to the exurbanites ('sOK, I grew up near Sacramento) and explore some new terrain. Recorded in eighttrack at one of freshly beardless vocalist Jason Lytle's home studios, the new EP revisits the ruffled powerpop of 1997's Under the Western Freeway more than the computershocked Lipsedelia of 2000 paranoidKiddroid touchstone The Sophtware Slump or 2003's glossy Sumday. Indeed, Todd Zilla is a goofy, sloppy minialbum, cramming familiar Weezer fuzz, stoned piano ballads, playful analogue synths, and misguided Bad Company references into a little more than half an hour. Reportedly, none of the songs will recur on Grandaddy's fifth fulllength, expected in aughtsix. That makes Todd Z. tempting like a dollar menu, so too bad only perfunctory crunchand\"ahh\" opener \"Pull the Curtains\" really rises above Bside caliber. Lytle sounds bored beneath his typical raisedglazed vox, and it shows. Much of the record is devoted to lambasting his current locale with cruisecontrol accompaniment: Piano ballad \"Fuck the Valley Fudge\" sticks it to the strip malls nurseryrhyme style, \"A Valley Son (Sparing)\" lets plaintive acoustic guitars and Venutian sworls do the whining, and another piano ballad, \"Cinderland\", spreads like a ravine for a shrugging/shrugworthy chorus. The songs are better when they're more ambivalent, like \"At My Post\", which laments failed attempts to leave town while flipping from sludgy space waltz to shuffling obladi blah. Whistlin' campfire closer \"Goodbye?\" focuses on this indecision straighton, but you gotta hope the answer will be more interesting than the question. Sure, the West is weird, but not much weirder than the rest of the country these days. \"There's more ATMs with airconditioning/ Than there are birds on the wing,\" Lytle helpfully offers, providing a clunky everythingunZen Exhibit A for a venue change. I'm all for keeping it local, but even Fresno native Aaron Espinoza of Earlimart eventually found his way as far as Silverlake. Just please don't dally in \"Florida\"; the EP's abortive emocore injoke is barely OK to visit once, but you'd never want to live there. And yet: Go somewhere, brother, whether geographically, musically, or both. "}