{"label":" Galaxia","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3519/homepage_large.d9a0c533.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"A Grape Dope","title":"Missing Dragons EP","text":" Here is my confession: I love Disney straighttoVHS/DVD sequels. I can't get enough of them. The happilyeverafter shtick was frustratingly transparent even when I was prepubescent a few years out of the sippercup stage but now, thanks in part to a completist fanbase and incredibly lean production budgets, I no longer have to second guess with imagination the fate of Aladdin, The Little Mermaid, and, more importantly, Air Bud. Certainly the storylines are even weaker than the arguably anemic plots of the originals, but just having something anything to remind me of the childhood pleasure derived from those animated highlights of my innocent years is enough to invite repeated viewing of these oft vapid explorations in cliché and concession. My predilection has taken hold: I feel the need to slightly alter the label of John Herndon's latest musical outing in the name of truth in advertising from Missing Dragons to simply Tortoise II: A Grape Dope, a contribution to be enjoyed solely by those still utterly steeped in the mystique of that seminal group. Though Herndon's A Grape Dope alias doesn't sound anything like his percussive role in Chicago's own terrapininfluenced jazz and postrock outfit after all, sequels rarely stay true to the main focus of the original creation but nonetheless, I can assure you this collection of six uninspired tracks will appeal only to the small clique of people who haven't yet taken Standards or TNT out of their CD wallet. A predictably beatdriven affair, the EP begins with \"Action: Showered Us\", a track geminated but not complimented by the later \"Inaction: Shadowed Us\". The former begins with a sputtering deep rhythm accented by a highend hiccup that rises to prominence, only to be interrupted occasionally by Yosemite Sam, cutup vocals. A distant clattering is mirrored in the latter track, as a weak melody plays out in the background, rising and falling until it eventually shatters and stops. Both of the compositions emphasize the studioexperimentation vibe of Missing Dragons: each lends itself more for use as a backing track on an underground MC's lofi debut than a standalone song captivating in its own right. Bolstering my damning accusation of inadequacy is the fact that the best cut on the album, \"Red Hat Attack\", is only made listenable by the guest appearance of avantgarde hiphop artist Doseone, who singsongs his way through a discussion of two red cars and various abstract images. A watery beat serves as an adequate addition to the rapper's highend nasally drawl, before all voices culminate in a spitfire finale of skipping beats and rising tones. \"When You Crash and Burn\" and \"I'll Spread It\", unfortunately, do not sport a similar musical charm despite being likewise laced with ornate vocal appending. Featuring an incredibly weak and mechanical rhythm, the tracks are both outfitted by unnecessary oral effects and manipulations, resulting in topheavy tunes that would invoke spite if they weren't so quickly forgotten. \"Hellz Bellz\" ends Herndon's solo excursion on a less obvious and more sinister note, utilizing a dark pulse to lead the way though his electronic noodling and interestingly more organic beats, this time outfitted with a synthetic drone and some nominally fitting bells. Though a respected drummer one doesn't earn the nickname \"Machine\" by chance John's latest creation is neither for fans searching to get cluedin on Chicago's ailing music scene, nor anyone looking for a resurgence of past glory. An unappealing release with few redeeming qualities, Missing Dragons will endure an analogous fate with the fairytale alsorans mentioned above; a fate that only collectors and diehard fans, biding their time until Herndon returns to his day job, could even remotely enjoy. "}