{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/354/homepage_large.5ae749bc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Audioslave","title":"Out of Exile","text":" Fresh out of exile, Chris Cornell is trying to readjust to the real world. Cornell has one problem, though: He only communicates using Audioslave lyrics:Chris Cornell at the eye doctor: Eye Doctor: So what's wrong, Mr. Cornell? Chris Cornell: I've stared straight into the sun. Eye Doctor: You can't see anything? Chris Cornell: I've seen 50,000 names all engraved on a stone. Eye Doctor: So you see some things, but not other things. Chris Cornell: Send my soul away.Chris Cornell at a bodega where somebody's buying lotto tickets:  Old Guy: God I hope I win... Chris Cornell: I will be your luck.Chris Cornell returning to his home in L.A.: Chris Cornell: I was happy in this fortress.Chris Cornell working as a Japanese tour guide, scaring people: Chris Cornell: I walk the streets of Japan till I get lost with a graveyard tan carrying a cross.Chris Cornell at the DMV saying stupid things that prevent him from getting his driver's license: Chris Cornell: I like driving backwards in the fog.Chris Cornell screaming: Chris Cornell: Yeahhh!Chris Cornell interviewing at med schools: Chris Cornell: I don't want to learn what I'll need to forget.Chris Cornell explaining what he likes to study: Chris Cornell: I like studying faces in a parking lot.Chris Cornell, M.D., talking to a patient in the emergency room who really just needs stitches, nothing big: Chris Cornell: I don't know why you're dying.Chris Cornell getting fired from Guitar World: Chris Cornell: I like throwing my voice and breaking guitars.Chris Cornell giving tips on how to play hideandseek: Chris Cornell: Hide in the hours before sunrise.Christ Cornell wondering whether this will all go away: Chris Cornell: I've got a feeling this will all go away.Places Chris Cornell will drink you: Chris Cornell: I will drink you in my honey.Chris Cornell's favorite mathematical functions: Chris Cornell: Multiply and divide.Drown him fast? Chris Cornell: Drown me slowly. "}