{"label":" Bloodshot","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/35/homepage_large.a71ae7fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Steven Byrd","artist":"Ryan Adams","title":"Heartbreaker","text":" Ryan Adams, parttime solo musician, fulltime frontman of indiecountry band Whiskeytown, is from North Carolina. As chance has it, I happen to be from North Carolina, too. Adams hails from a city you've probably never heard of, a little pitstop on the way to the beach called Jacksonville. I've lived most of my life in a tinshack of a town called Lumberton, only two hours from Jacksonville by highway. Both towns are small geographical afterthoughts, and about as \"southern\" as any place you're likely to find in modernday America. You have to understand, \"southern\" no longer means cotton fields, plantations and beautiful belles waiting to escort you to Big Daddy's formal ball. Still, despite all the changes history has brought us, three things remain true about the south: 1) It's boring here. There's nothing to do, nowhere to go. 2) The south is beautiful, all small towns and miles of lush, green fields. 3) It's where all the good music you've ever heard was born. Soul, rock, country, blues, all of 'em from south of the MasonDixon line. In the south, the good music is like sunshine you just can't escape it. This is the place Ryan Adams and I both call home this boring, but melodic, pit of despair. So is it any wonder that Adams, a young man of only 27 years, is able to craft an album as stark and as enjoyably bleak as Heartbreaker? Singing in a voice that's just filthy with despair, Adams delivers his first solo album with the practiced swagger and genuine hurt of a veteran country crooner. A startling 15song masterpiece, Heartbreaker is a drinker's album, an ode to sadness that deals exclusively with all the dark and dirty corners of the human heart. It's music written in the language of loneliness, depression, and, above all, heartbreak, in all its varied forms. And it makes perfect sense that this should be Adams' first solo album, as aside from a couple of notable collaborations the material here is far too personal and focused to have been produced by anything but one man with one soul.Heartbreaker shows Ryan Adams sweeping all of the clichés of mass produced, \"new country\" under the rug and tapping into everything that makes genuine country music unique and beautiful: raw emotion, deep groove and clever storytelling. There are no simple, melodramatic, commercialready ballads here; the music is too deeply rooted in oldschool country music, folkrock songs and bluegrass jams to produce anything that predictable. With that musical philosophy firmly in place, it stands to reason that each track on the album is a gem, showcasing Adams' considerable songwriting ability and a way with words that most musicians would sell their spines to possess. The record begins with the misleadingly upbeat \"To Be Young (Is to Be Sad, Is to Be High),\" a swinging bluegrass number that wouldn't sound out of place in a honkytonk. But Adams gets to the business of bringing us down soon enough. When Adams sings, \"I just want to die without you,\" on \"Call Me on Your Way Back Home,\" orphans run out into the street and weep. For \"Damn, Sam (I Love a Woman That Rains),\" Adams calls on the patron saints of sparse folk music and lyrical tomfoolery while channeling the troubadour vocals of early Bob Dylan to produce one of Heartbreaker's lighter, but better, tracks. Still, even this stylistic similarity is superficial, as the blood andguts of the song are all his own. Adams continues his winning streak by making great use of a rare cameo by countryrock legend Emmylou Harris on \"Oh My Sweet Carolina,\" as Harris' trademark falsetto blends beautifully with Adams' own rich vocals for a simple, affecting song about one man's longing to return home. \"Come Pick Me Up,\" a track about a man struggling with a bad relationship and pining for his cheating girlfriend weighs in as the album's most affecting moment. Gluing crushing lyrics to undeniably catchy drum riffs, greasy guitar work and soulful harmonica playing, the song is five minutes and thirteen seconds of damn near perfect music. There's nothing terribly complex or tricky about Heartbreaker. In fact, it's probably one of the simplest, most straightforward albums you'll hear all year. But this album wasn't written to be complex. It isn't electronica designed to tickle your cerebral cortex. It isn't music to figure out. It's music to feel to. It's music to drink alone to. And it's sadder than witnessing your grandmother's burial.Heartbreaker is the soundtrack to the last ten minutes of any relationship you've ever watched crumble before your eyes. It's music for the ruined romantic in all of us. Usually, that little romantic simply sits quietly, tearfully watching everything disappear without so much as a single complaint. But on Heartbreaker, Ryan Adams has not only convinced that voice to speak, he's taught it to sing. The result is an album of astonishing musical proficiency, complete honesty and severe beauty. "}