{"label":" Morr","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3568/homepage_large.04a6dfff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Guitar","title":"Sunkissed","text":" Few records released this year invite critical dismissal more than Guitar's Sunkissed, which exemplifies two exhausted genres: German IDM, and \"inspired by My Bloody Valentine\". Last night, to settle an argument over this record, I ripped Land of the Loops' Bundle of Joy and mixed it with instrumental passages from Loveless. I was pretty drunk, but I won the argument: every album can be reduced to a comparison of two progenitors. My Bloody Valentine have informed so many of our daydreams and romances, it's no longer possible to debate them as an influence on anything: Loveless is the Sgt. Pepper's of our day. We are indebted to it, and aspire to it. Every year, record labels tell us their latest protegés have managed to wrest Kevin Shields' reversereverb ache from its prison, but sadly, we've had to swallow shallow, secondrate dreampop ever since. In recent years, monotonous IDM has taken hold of the blissout faction, but records like Sunkissed and Manual's Ascend are the diamonds in this rough and, arriving roughly every six months, they excuse dozens of lazy releases in between. Peter Grove has confusingly titled this record after his previous nom de plume, Sunkissed, a fouronthefloor techhouse outfit made available via his own label, Woodwork Recordings. Moving from Toronto to Germany has definitely altered his sphere: thanks to the recent spate of layeredguitar IDM released by Morr Music, he's rediscovered the instrument he started out with, and penned a snowsoaked postcard to the early 90s, when Chapterhouse, Cranes and Curve all vied for the shoegaze crown. Like other decent but largely forgettable forays into the medium (check Swallow's Blow), Sunkissed is seriously frontloaded: the hurricane of pitchshifted, delayed guitars and loops so gorgeously layered on \"House Full of Time\" and the leadoff title track give way to some questionable Pizzicato Five pop (\"How So Bright of Universe\") and lackadaisical IDM (\"See Sea, Bee and Me Minimal\"). Thankfully, those two duds are broken up by an inspired, furious resurrection of Curve's early sound. If the booming, postBonham drum loop and vibrato guitars drag toward minute six of \"Melt\", it stands tall as a reminder of the detached, bemused sexuality the very best shoegaze material was bound to. The album's title track plays with light in much the same way Seefeel did on Quique: though its triphop backbeat approximates the stop/start swagger Portishead brought to the fore on Dummy, it's Mark Clifford's bandwidthpass ocean that churns beneath sharply accented moans care of Ayako Akashiba. The minor irk of her tooaffected delivery is quashed by Regina Janssen (aka Donna Regina), whose breathy, Germantinged lilt coats the record's unquestionable masterpieces, the driving \"House Full of Time\" and \"Fear Flows Free\". The latter evokes Mahogany, whose Dream of a Modern Day (Darla, 2001) provided exactly the same breath of fresh air Guitar's Sunkissed will no doubt draw from you this winter. "}