{"label":" Bella Union","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3579/homepage_large.bce44c11.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Robin Guthrie","title":"Imperial","text":" In brief, the Cocteau Twins ended badly. After fifteen years fiddling with drum machines, effectspedals and the English language, les infants joyeux crashed from a sugar high that dazzled us all. Very little music more clearly embodies flowery words like \"shimmering,\" \"glistening\" and \"grand\" than the stately swirl of Robin Guthrie's Cocteau Twins, yet more people know Kevin Shields by name. It's not a crime, but it's a shame to think how much more excited the trades would be to find out Shields had released a solo album, especially when like dozens of others he's so indebted to Guthrie's work. Anyone that's heard so much as half of a Cocteau Twins song has some idea what to expect here, and if you own The Moon And The Melodies (a 1986 collaboration between the Twins and modern classical pianist Harold Budd), you're thoroughly prepared. Though it reaches out to glitch beats and the icy sounds of recent software pop, Imperial is predictably ruled by Guthrie's oftimitated delay and chorus pedal settings. His signature guitar sound was initially indebted to John McGeogh of Siouxsie & The Banshees, but by 1984 Guthrie had perfected a delayed wash that rang out across physical and temporal horizons, contributing hugely to a multitude of genres over the next twenty years, most obviously shoegaze, which the Twins essentially cocreated with the Jesus and Mary Chain (Guthrie even helped produce one of its best records, Chapterhouse's Whirlpool). As affecting and lush as Guthrie's guitar work was, Liz Fraser's unique birdsong proved the group's defining component, allowing the Cocteau Twins to transcend any connection with pop music's past and ensure their incomparable place between New Age pop and PostPunk. As the band danced with Goth overtones and terrible hair in the early days, her saintly voice softened drum machines as harsh as Cabaret Voltaire. Which is why \"Elemental\" is so heartbreaking: because of her absence. Impotent, insecure piano lines substitute Fraser's drifting gale; without his muse, Guthrie's most Cocteau piece falls uninspired to the floor, never breaking to flight the way those choruses of old always did. \"Elemental\" ranks with the most defeated, depressing moments in pop, a naked, crushing survey of everything Guthrie's lost and a Muzak version of \"Evangeline\" from FourCalendar Café. The first half of Imperial is not so cruelly bound to past glories, nicely resurrecting the ambience of both The Moon And The Melodies and Victorialand in a more Lanois vein, circa 1984's Apollo: Atmospheres and Soundtracks. The title cut is instantly reminiscent of Lanois, but by its second minute, Guthrie is brought down by secondguessing, inserting metallic chimes and Casio chirps behind the plaintive twochord strum. The results veer into Vangelis territory, and after invoking Blade Runner, the simple, descending chorus of \"Freefall\" is tainted, conjuring images of Harrison Ford passed out over his piano, dreaming of unicorns. Thankfully, \"Thunderbird Road\" is a drastic change in mood, a solo ambient piece that allows Guthrie to bask in territory he originally explored, but has seen its share of visitors since (Windy & Carl, Landing and Aarktica to name just a few). Not surprisingly, most of the record follows suit, including its finest track, the extremely Lanois \"Falling From Grace\", which is the finest pure guitar piece Guthrie's released since Victorialand. \"Tera\" is another welcome surprise, introducing glitch fuzz and a lopassed drum machine over which the usual Guthrie gossamer is spun but it points up the ultimate failure of this album: Imperial is too divergent in its aims to leave a total impression, and in music so ambient, impression is often all you've got. For Cocteau Twins fans, this is naturally a worthwhile purchase, though it's less rewarding than Simon Raymonde's unexpectedly excellent solo album Blame Someone Else. In contrast to his former bandmate, Guthrie takes few if any risks on his proper debut, neither explaining nor expanding his illustrious history (though he has every right to reclaim or recycle that past). To the familiar, Robin Guthrie has already proven he's better than this; to the uninitiated, Imperial offers a muted exposition of his talents. "}