{"label":" Lejos","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3586/homepage_large.792ff96e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"George","title":"All Good Things EP","text":" Sometimes there's a place in music, in a song, where you realize that you aren't experiencing the verses and choruses anymore, but have rather entered into your own experience. This doesn't always happen, of course; generally only in something you've given yourself a chance to digest, perhaps heard a few times on the way to school or work, at the computer or as you sit on the train with nothing better to distract your eyes than the backdrop of other people as they're consumed with something totally apart from the song you're hearing. This place, your experience, is different from the one initiated by music because the meaning of its words and implied direction of its strains are less inherently meaningful than they are impressionistic suggestions for whatever is most meaningful to you. I've read how this is supposed to happen all the time, but I think it's rarer than that. Birmingham, UK duo George specializes in music that triggers the hypersubjective experience for me (and a few others): Their 2003 fulllength debut, The Magic Lantern, sneaked into Pitchfork's Top 50 albums list, and found a place in the hearts of folks I once called the \"midnight romantics,\" saving their most intense confessionals for the hour furthest from contact with any other person. Suzy Mangion and Michael Varity make music with guitar, old organs and any percussion you can play with just your hands, and come out sounding less tweepoppers than Salvation Army hymn leaders. Mangion's vocals are gentle, with an earthy timbre suited perfectly for singing homemade arias on the front porch; when she fills the back of George's songs with harmonies, I strain to find words other than \"angelic\" and \"graceful\" because they've already been hastily applied to less deserving singers. They're good words for her.All Good Things is a foursong EP released on the small Spanish label Lejos. Its brief runtime necessarily prohibits it from working up the same wistful, dewcovered conceits as The Magic Lantern, though its most engaging moments would have fit nicely into that record. The opener \"Wait\" is the best: Beginning with Varity's guitar arpeggio, moving in what Leonard Cohen once described as the \"major lift\" and a \"minor fall,\" Mangion enters with a soft solo vocal describing a being who looks down from the clouds as the rain falls on people who would be wise to find shelter. Her protagonist is spreading \"gloom too soon/ 'Too soon,' they said,\" though during the chorus, as her own backing vocals drench the song just as the rain in her story does, she finds \"wives giving shelter\" and laments not being able to do more than watch the rain come down. Were I looking for a narrative obviously applicable to myself, I'd be out of luck. Were I looking for a beautiful piece of music, I'd have found it. Varity takes the lead on \"My Blue Room\", a melancholy take on Brian Wilson's brand of bedroom symphony. His vocals are thinner than Mangion's, but the track succeeds on the strength of its modest use of organ, tambourine and sleigh bells in Wilson's style, and a vocal arrangement that recalls the Beach Boys, albeit simplified to suit George's considerably more modest presentation. There's also a brief instrumental, \"Man Taking a Stroll\" (apparently starring clipclip percussion as the man), and another short song, \"For the Last Time\", that ends the EP on a down note, moving forward in dirgelike fashion under its weighty church organ and Mangion's whispervocals. Practically speaking, All Good Things is a stopgap. Fans will certainly want more, and I'd advise anyone unfamiliar with the band to start with The Magic Lantern. However, George's strengths are clear here, and my own reaction follows suit. The hidden place, where expression becomes impression and the outside world folds inward, is still here. "}