{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3589/homepage_large.05204543.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Ghost Cauldron","title":"Invent Modest Fires","text":" Deciphering Artists and their Promotional Department: The Consumer's Guide To Bland Music Chapter 11: Projects Purporting to be \"Diverse\": How to Proceed I. When a recording artist or their promotional team/record label describes his or her latest record, and the word \"diverse\" gurgles its way out of their ambitious throats, your mind should immediately expect one of two definitive reactions to the music and album in question: 1. Said album will exhibit a lack of interest in being \"diverse\"; artists in question will be mixing styles and sounds purely for the experience of taking on new challenges and incorporating favored styles. Interest in exposure on multiple radio formats and the maximum number of British magazine covers rates low on the fulfillment scale. See The Flaming Lips' The Soft Bulletin and Super Furry Animals' Guerilla for detailed examples. Note the confidence in the composition and the resulting pleasurable listening experience. 2. Said album will present an unsure and uneven collection of oddly juxtaposed compositions, some embellishing a familiar genre with elements of a presently lucrative or otherwise commercially validated sound. Songs will cover no less than three areas of music, and shall name no less than 6 on their promotional materials. Furthermore, the artists in question will no doubt stack the weights in their favor, inviting an otherwise respectable musician to join in on the \"diverse\" project. Possibility Number 2 is our primary concern, as it represents nearly 2/3rds of \"genrehopping\" projects available for consumption. The following is a case study of a weak and forgettable album being marketed as \"diverse,\" including tips for the music consumer on how to avoid albums and artists seeking to sell their aimless recordings with similar tactics. You will find a copy of the case study enclosed with the Manual's supplemental materials. II. Case Study: Invent Modest Fires by the group Ghost Cauldron Released in 2003, said album was brought to the market by the !K7 label, a known purveyor of electronicsbased recordings. Said album was distributed in its promotional form with a sticker extolling the virtues of the Ghost Cauldron project and its founder, the former member of a German group called Terranova. Said sticker claimed that contained on the enclosed compact disc were \"not only...breakbeats and techno vibes but also folk and rock elements as well.\" This should immediately alert your suspicion. The vagueness of the terminology (\"techno,\" in particular, is one you would do well to remember) and the dangerous sentence fragment that follows should send up red flags for the conscientious consumer. \"This album is diverse as ever...\" If we have the benefit of a CD player and a free copy of the album Invent Modest Fires, an intense inspection of the recorded material is our best evidence in exposing this music, parading as \"diverse,\" as lackluster and stale. Step 1. Play Track 1, \"Fire Walk With Me\", now. As the reference to David Lynch suggests, this track and the cut that follows are preoccupied with cinematics, composed with a soundtrack artist's ear for musical cues and movements. This is montage music with no montage, a mixture of interesting string arrangements backed by fairly stale and uninspired drum programming, no doubt evidence of the \"techno\" element and its failings. Track 2 ups the ante by featuring Priest of Antipop Consortium, whose horrorcore delivery nearly saves the song from drowning in its own ominous melodrama. Consumer beware: the inclusion of a familiar face is a clever ruse, a way to slip past your defenses and set up shop. Tread carefully.Note: At this point it may be useful to reference Track 5, \"Fear\", which features the entire Anti Pop crew. While listening, try to determine if an increase in guest talent correlates to a decrease in the blandness of the song itself. Step 2. Play Track 3, \"See What I've Become\" and Track 8, \"Right Now\", consecutively. The inclusion of solemn acoustic ballads and britpop genremixing projects is a standard approach in these cases; see DJ Muggs' Dust for prototypical examples of this technique. Ghost Cauldron employ the nasally warble of Nick Taylor on these tracks, somber affairs that cover predictable rock territory, perhaps leaning towards the britpop side of things, but remaining moody. Beyond appearing to be mere calculations attempts to blanket a more broad target audience said tracks contain insipid lyrics, rigid drummachine accompaniment, and an overall lack of inspiration. Be careful, as many participants easily forget these songs, and repeat Step 2 multiple times. Step 3. Play Track 11, \"Death Before Disco\", now. Often times, one or two compositions on a \"genrehopping\" project such as Invent Modest Fires will expose the musician's true calling, interest, or talent. The result is a feeling of angst in the listener, an uncertainty of how to judge the project in question. As a fine slice of electroinspired, Legoweltish electronica, the track in question sounds fresh and interesting, suggesting an obvious love of the referenced genres and, in effect, imbuing the song with authenticity, unquestionable by even the most jaded music consumer. Although we are almost finished proving the worthlessness of this \"diverse\" project, it is important to note that every failure can be expected to contain some percentage of success, no matter how minimal.  Step 4 and Conclusion. Please read the \"File Under\" copy included with the compact disc. As !K7 would have you see it, Ghost Cauldron is all things to all musicloving people, encompassing \"breaks, triphop, postrock, electro, rap, techno\" in an effortless, fluid mix. As a music consumer, compound words used as descriptors should give us pause. Note also the broad categories mentioned, how they leave plenty of room for interpretation, in many ways akin to legal jargon and legislation: !K7 cannot be held responsible if their definition of postrock and triphop do not emulate your own, and Ghost cauldron can't be libeled in the event of such a discrepancy. Trust your instincts: if a project purports to draw influence from all corners of the musical realm, it's your duty to be suspicious, your right to be incredulous. In far too many situations, the compact disc you hold in your hand is a halfbaked conglomerate of industry buzzwords not intended to shake your ass, but to lick your ear and remove the contents of your wallet. "}