{"label":" Cuneiform","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3596/homepage_large.0b0dbf1b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Guapo","title":"Five Suns","text":" I'll bet you aren't listening to Magma right now. Well, neither am I, though in due course, all of us will be one day. The experimental French prog band are one of the last surething revivals from the 70s yet to get their due among the general hipster faction. I don't know why; you'd think people would be looting retirement communities just to get their hands on something in a madeup language, sporting guys in black with gold medallions and Fender Rhodes pianos. You know, the whole Sigur Rós fiasco led me to believe odd was in, and with Magma you don't even have to sit through 12 minutes of introductory bullshit before getting to the next chord. Well, okay, sometimes you do. But enough of that, I'll just show my hand and proclaim my enduring fascination and fandom of Magma. Some things transcend my reputation as a relatively normal person, and this is one of them. I had the screensaver, for fuck's sake. Of course, it's nice to know I'm not alone. Take British trio Guapo: with Five Suns, they appear to have fashioned an entire album in homage to a single Magma song. Playing lengthy, minimal experimental prog featuring buzzsaw bass, insistently busy drums and that old Rhodes, their music is often at the mercy of the infamous \"De Futura\", a track that Chicago's Flying Luttenbachers also felt the need to sacrifice virgins to over the last several years. As an added bonus for nonbelievers, Guapo also share an affinity for aggressive, nearchaotic expansion with bands like Lightning Bolt and Hella. In all cases, the bass/guitar and drums provide a rocksolid base of rhythm under which explosive noise and endlessly repetitive thematic development ends up as oppressive rock fury and allaround punch in the neck. Where Guapo differ is in their preference for largescale symphonic forms and love of sinister, dreadful moments of calm between outbursts. They offer an inventive, if not necessarily strikingly original update on the Magma template. The fivepart title suite begins with the clang of a gong and spooky Rhodes figures and if I didn't know any better I'd doublecheck to make sure I hadn't accidentally slipped in one of the Mahavishnu records. The extended introduction gives way to a fistful of fury via a threenote figure from bassist Matt Thompson that does remind me a little of the Luttenbachers' pound. However, very soon the band launches a martial, tightly wound synthled melody that practically telegraphs their debt to Magma. Everything from the simple, crushing drumming to slightly goofy synth patches and even down to the specific bass tone crib from \"De Futura\", but that's okay. I get the feeling Guapo really are taking that ball and running with it rather than being content to wallow in its glory plus it's instrumental, so you're spared from having to sing about Orks. The five parts of Five Suns take up most of the album, though \"Mictlan\" and the relatively calm \"Topan\" outline variations in their style. The former fooled me into thinking they'd reconsidered their idea of sonic pummeling by beginning with a long, hypnotic synth drone. However, 40 seconds in, the pummeling returns in the form of minor chord, bottomheavy acrobatics. Guapo usually keep their ideas concise, so if you don't happen to dig what's going on at any given time, it's likely to change before you even know what's happened. In a perfect world, maybe the band wouldn't be quite so reminiscent of another band, though in truth they're probably not running into a lot of people protesting Magmathievery at gigs. As far as newer bands in this vein, I prefer the Luttenbachers and Lightning Bolt, or even another Cuneiformsponsored band from the late 90s, Happy Family. Still, if you ever want a bit more bite in your instrumental postrock, Guapo have you covered. Hamatai! "}