{"label":" Quannum","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3598/homepage_large.acf5d011.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Gift of Gab","title":"4th Dimensional Rocketships Going Up","text":" The type of person who makes a concerted effort to have things like Blackalicious Bsides and Lyrics Born 7inches in their life probably won't find much to dislike about Gift of Gab's solo recording, 4th Dimensional Rocketships Going Up. It's everyone else that Gab will be fighting hard to win over. Like 2001's studious Blazing Arrow, this sturdily constructed debut locates itself at a very specific place in hiphop, a place that derives its identity almost entirely from what it is not. Reverant, nostalgic and brutally pofaced, Gab's hiphop is meant for a specific mode of consumption to reassure and reinforce in the face of the muggy, undignified backwater that mainstream hiphop has become. Unfortunately, whenever you define your aesthetic in strict opposition to someone else's, you slam the door on a million possibilities, and 4th Dimensional too often feels shut out. Dutybound and mature, it's the sound of Gab's personal war being waged in some faraway place where things like jokes and bump and playfulness and ambiguity are regarded as unnecessary detours on the road to hiphop nirvana. None of this is an indictment so much as it is another way of suggesting that since there are things you almost definitely won't get from a Gab record, what he's willing to give you needs to be good enough to compensate. 4th Dimensional opens well in this regard, with the harptinged opener \"The Ride of Your Life\", striking just the right balance between a candlelit, newagey vibe and Gab's motorik flow. It's even alright when he smears his introductory verse with metaphysical palaver about \"dimensions of a positive invention\" and \"the infinite provocative\" because, hey, somehow it feels good, it fits. It doesn't take long for ugly stepsister \"Rat Race\" to break the spell. Built around a farting tuba line and containing the opening couplet, \"All the bull stops here, I'm a matador/ Here to introduce a new rap catagore,\" it's a cringeworthy little thing that, backtoback with \"The Ride of Your Life\", forecasts the album's inconsistency. For every honeyed glimmer of a track like \"Way of the Light\", there's a drab funk cutup like \"Real MCs\"; for every \"Just Because\", a \"Flashback\". And so it goes. Much of this unevenness has to do with the production, which is supplied here by relative newcomers Jake One and Vitamin D. At their best, the backing these producers provide is still only good as an obvious homage to something else; half the time you can't help but be overcome by a sneaking suspicion that they're trying to outXcel each other. Even the tracks you imagine they think are hot are actually dutifully restrained, afraid to bump too hard or with too much cut. That might be interesting if there were some juxtaposition between their stubborn politeness and Gab's lyrical content, but his flows flow with the same caveats an often boring technical precision and a hamfisted deference to moralizing and fingerwagging. I'd have loved to have seen Gab take on a completely different persona here, or at least to indulge himself and step away from the Blackalicious schema a little more than he has. But even on his own terms, 4th Dimensional Rocketships Going Up feels a little too smoothed over and sedated; like Nia, three dimensions removed. "}