{"label":" Arista / La Face","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3599/homepage_large.e45893d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Goodie Mob","title":"Dirty South Classics","text":" During the 90s, Outkast and Goodie Mob were Hotlanta contemporaries, hiphop mavericks who formed the crunkedup cornerstone of the Dirty South. The trailblazing Organized Noize production unit rolled out a gritty, organic sound with blaring horns and live bass, and lyrically, both Outkast and the Mob added heart and soul to the bling and booty equation. Their complex musical arrangements, gospel harmonies, and confessional lyrics upset the East Coast/West Coast bipolar disorder, and both groups quickly gained massive underground cred and critical accolades. Outlasting Master P's murda music for regional bragging rights, Outkast went on to achieve megastar status. But after three cultfave albums, creative differences and the pressures of success dissolved Goodie Mob in 2000. That the four members of Goodie Mob CeeLo, Big Gipp, Khujo, and TMo could reach a unified vision of empowerment within their dark, urban melodrama raises them above your average radio rappers. The sense of urgency conveyed through tales of petty violence and street corner hustling transforms several tracks on this greatest hits collection from battle hymns to ghetto anthems. Goodie Mob (the name's an acrostic: Good Die Mostly Over Bullshit) lead rough, conflicted lives occasionally peppered by block parties and onenight stands, and their lessons and losses often rise through the music. \"Black Ice\", featuring Outkast's Big Boi and Andre 3000, is a sparse, psychedelic warning against the perils of dealing near your neighbor. The sultry \"Soul Food\" brings brothers together over chicken wings, grits, and a greasy beat as CeeLo rhymes, \"If I hadda went and took the easy way/ Wouldn't be the strong nigga that I am today/ Everythang that I did/ Different thangs I was told/ Just ended up being food for my soul.\" CeeLo's cartoonish Scatman Crothers rasp carries the most memorable verses here; on the album's only dayglo party starter, \"Get Rich to This\", his exaggerated, singsong meter bounces on regal horn samples like a balloon. On a few lesser numbers, Organized Noize's dense, steamy production tramples the vocals, mostly the result of underwhelming flow from the Mob. The Stax/Volt guitar and bass on \"Fly Away\" takes off with a funky lift, Gipp and Khujo just can't stand up to the bump, despite their solid wordplay. Surprisingly and sadly absent from this collection is \"The Dip\", the haunting stringsnbass epic from World Clique, Goodie Mob's final album. That track shows the group at its best, delivering significant rhymes in perfect synch with a lushly orchestrated background. With only a handful of true Dirty South Classics, most spotlighting Outkast or CeeLo's incomparable timbre, this comp falls short of essential. No doubt it's an important retrospective in the development of some currently flourishing artists CeeLo Green and Pat \"Sleepy\" Brown (cofounder of Organized Noize) but like most compilations of this nature, a few imperfections hold it back. Skip this album and fire up CeeLo's Soul Machine instead, and you'll see why he's the only Mobster to achieve solo success after the group's collapse: Like Andre 3000, his artistic ambitions transcend the Dirty South pigeonhole and fly off into their own uncharted postmillennial funk realms. "}