{"label":" Upper Class","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3602/homepage_large.1561883d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Girlsareshort","title":"Earlynorthamerican","text":" For god's sake, can I really be so cynical? Have I really been so brutally chafed by this itchy, handmedown Clear Channel turtleneck that I can't cuddle up under Girlsareshort's velvetblanket tweetronica? Something must've happened on the way to my thirties, because only a couple years and several allnighters ago, Earlynorthamerican could've rubbed me just the right way. This is earlymorning comedown music, quirky lullabeats buzzing along through blue skies and warm hugs, but I haven't grinned blearyeyed into the sunrise in a really long time. Maybe the drugs were good for me after all. It's a lesson in the transitive property of music, only in reverse. I like The Polyphonic Spree, and I like Underworld, but I don't think I'd like Tim DeLaughter and a giddy ninepiece choir chirping along to \"Dark and Long\". Which is essentially what we get with the unflinchingly gleeful, Xannybar rattle of \"Battle Team\" and the childlike choral exhortations of \"Sunshine\", which (seemingly) earnestly inquires, \"Why do you wanna stay home all day/ Rather be inside than go out and play/ Come on, hang with me/ What's it gonna be?\" If Girlsareshort's Alex P and Daniel Z are sincere, if they're not dipping a toe in the chilly waters of irony, if I'm totally misreading this hopscotch hiphop, then I'm playing Earlynorthamerican for my twoyearold nephew because this is some bangin' shit for toddlers. Of course, there's a market for this music beyond the Gymboree set. Even in its sterilized drum programming and cool, highregister hum, Earlynorthamerican is far cozier and much less daunting than labelmates The Russian Futurist's soaring, baroque pop, even if the two do share common G5 production values. And any IDM fan will recognize the flawless even innovative technique here, though most DJs wouldn't let Girlsareshort's immaculate geometry near their crates. But perhaps most alluring is the band's rosyglassed twee reminiscing, evoked through cotton candy melodies, sunny analog synths, and the aforementioned falsetto (or possibly prepubescent) vocals. In fact, there's a pungent whiff of winking 80s nostalgia in the glistening churn of \"Pinacolada\". And yes, that is a sample of Rupert Holmes' campy ode to rediscovered love, \"Escape (The Piña Colada Song)\". If you have half a brain, or are still wearing Vuarnet and rocking Squeeze's Argybargy in your beatup walkman, get on board. There's simply no edge to this music, which can be good if you're floating in a sensory deprivation tank. In the real world, though, it smacks of frivolity. There is at least some gentle contrast, as evidenced by the bboy vocal sample and Hendrixian guitar snippet of \"The Natural\", or the dramatic electro bliss of \"Mississaga Theme\". These songs, the album's strongest, are something like musical igloos, handbuilt icy shells that manage to retain a fair amount of lingering warmth within. Man. I just reread that last sentence. God help me if I've become another shriveled, misanthropic musicloathing critic. I'm just calling 'em like I feel 'em. "}