{"label":" Wide Open","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3608/homepage_large.e48bbf15.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Davíd Garza","title":"A Strange Mess of Flowers","text":" Like almost every grassroots artist who's done time in the trenches, Texasbred, Los Angelesbased singer/songwriter Davíd Garza has two histories. The first and generally accepted history, chronicled on albums, in press materials, and in magazine articles, goes something like this: A very young Garza started playing Deep Ellum bars before he was old enough to get past the bouncers, opening for local and national acts. He played with the lamentably named acoustic band Twang Twang ShockABoom before striking out on his own. His first two albums, Eyes Wide Open and Culture Vulture were bubblegummy mishmashes of ebullient pop music, jam band rhythms, and occasional Tejano flourishes and were popular on the college circuit during the early '90s. Around the time his nonlocal fans were graduating and earning their own disposable income, Garza abruptly switched styles on the leaden Blind Hips in Motion, whose most redeeming aspect was that it led directly to his majorlabel debut, This Euphoria, on Lava/Atlantic. Despite falling off toward the end, This Euphoria especially the single \"Discoball World\" captured the more motional style of his early recordings without losing any imaginativeness. After relocating to Los Angeles, Garza sat in with the likes of Jon Brion, Rhett Miller, and Fiona Apple at Largo and occasionally in the studio. Though his second majorlabel album, Overdub, earned a spot on The New York Times' top ten albums of 2001 list, the record didn't fare well commercially, and recently, he was cut loose from Atlantic. If that history tells a linear story of artistic development and frustration, A Strange Mess of Flowers, Garza's first release since the dissolution of his majorlabel contract, documents a very different story one less dependent on industry machinations. From 1990 on, Garza has been recording prodigiously and assembling songs onto unofficial albums and EPs that he sells at shows and through his website; it's a notunheardof practice, but it's perhaps the one constant in a career seemingly defined by restless musical nomadism. A Strange Mess of Flowers collects 71 of these rare tracks over four discs and one DVD. Some are early versions of songs that saw official release on proper albums, but most of them are commercially available for the first time. Longtime fans will be fascinated; firsttime listeners may be intimidated by the bulk of material. What makes the collection more than just another catchall comp is its organization: Instead of ordering the tracks chronologically or as they appeared on the original albums (which would have been intriguing, although less rewarding), Garza shuffles them all together, in no discernible order. As a result, A Strange Mess of Flowers gently reinterprets his decadeandahalf career, revealing the similarities between his myriad styles and sounds. Beneath this immense shuffle of songs lies a career that has evolved dramatically over 15 years, from bouncy pop to more sonically inventive danceinflected grooves. To a large degree, it's the difference between songs developed on stage and tracks developed in the studio. His early material, like \"Conmigo\", \"Butterflies\" and \"My Sister\", possesses an exuberance derived perhaps from the need to entertain audiences impatient for headliners. His more recent material has a very different energy, perhaps born out of the confines of the studio. But he never lost his strong sense of melody, his ululating vocal style, or his penchant for clever lyrics (\"If you're looking for that blind love/ Mine's deaf and dumb, too\" from \"Your Sister's Leopard Coat\") and biblical imagery (\"She parts the oceans like she parts her hair\" from \"Jezebel Grin\"). If his early material occasionally sounds saccharine, his more experimental stuff can tax listeners' patience, and some of his 2003 L.A. sessions especially the KDRN tracks are much too conceptual to be rewarding to much of anyone other than him.A Strange Mess of Flowers erases the straight line of evolution from early to recent material, setting songs from every point in his career side by side and creating fascinating parallels and intersections between them all. If Eyes Wide Open and Overdub sound almost irreconcilably different, the tracks from those periods meld nicely here, complimenting each other in surprising ways and revealing the consistent human voice and imagination behind them. For instance, \"Neva\", recorded in 2003, shuffles along on staticky production and Garza's murkily intoned verse, as if trying to shake a postmillennial dread through lyrics that reference Radiohead, Autechre, and The Heartbreakers. It's immediately followed by \"Butterflies\", recorded 13 years prior, which marries organic dance rhythms and majorkey melodies to verses about hopelessness and betrayal. Played back to back, the former brings out the sour lyrics behind the latter's upbeat melody, while \"Butterflies\" highlights the strange twopart structure of \"Neva\" as well as the lowkey rhythmic progressions that churn against Garza's voice. With each listen, A Strange Mess of Flowers posits new juxtapositions, so that it seems to mutate over time, never a set thing but always challenging the listener's ear. To an extent, the collection is a triumph of sequencing, which excuses throwaway tracks and halfbaked ideas because they play so well against the more solid songs. As a result, it never sounds like history disinterred, but history reinterpreted and revised: the culmination of an intensely creative career that makes most sense when heard out of order. "}