{"label":" Saddle Creek","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3609/homepage_large.5eb0386c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Good Life","title":"Lovers Need Lawyers EP","text":" The Good Life is Cursive bandleader Tim Kasher's side project. At least, that's how it began. \"Side project\" implies something peripheral a catchall for fallout from the main band's songwriting process, an opportunity for collaboration and stylistic deviation (e.g. The Postal Service or Gorillaz), or a lowerprofile testing ground for experiments that might besmirch the reputation of the primary project. Often, side projects are like the aberrant pieces that wellknown writers publish in lowcirculation literary journals, or genre fiction published under a pseudonym. But sometimes, they accumulate gravitas until it's difficult to qualify them as side projects, unless the term simply describes a band the artist formed while already in another band, which seems fatuous. The Shins, for example, began as a Flake Music side project, but we'd hardly consider it one now. With a volume of output that nearly equals Cursive's, a solidified lineup, and a feeling of completion that amplifies with each release, The Good Life have made the transition from side project to independent entity. This wasn't always the case. The first Good Life album, Novena on a Nocturn, was a prototypical side project a record of fluttery boudoir ephemera; remnants scraped from the mental sieve that caught whatever grains of song wouldn't sift into Cursive's oeuvre. But even then, The Good Life was more than Cursive's rough drafts, with an emphasis on starry ballads and minimal electronic embellishments. The second Good Life LP, Black Out, saw those appended beeptracks insinuated more deeply into the songs' spinal columns to become structurally integral. Its recurrent \"Black Out\" motif and intricate dynamics lent it a \"front project\" feel, yet it was still distinguished from Cursive by its splintered, percolating electronica, and a guitar sound that bent toward the stadium anthem more than dissonant, prickly hardcore.Lovers Need Lawyers, a teaser EP for the new Good Life fulllength due out in August, is ballasted by both of Kasher's constant themes the inevitable failure of romantic relationships and the futility of art. And it downplays the importance of its electronic trappings, focusing on verse/chorus dynamics in a manner that approaches traditional guitar rock and indie pop. \"Leaving Omaha\" opens the disc with melancholy strumming and Kasher's tormented version of twangy arena rock, teetering on the brink between restless road song and jaded hometown elegy. \"Entertainer\" exemplifies his \"beat them to the punch\" mentality. \"I'm not an artist, I'm an asshole without a job.../ Making money off of calling myself out,\" he sings, the harsh sentiment jarringly juxtaposed with a swinging, peppy melody. There's a cognitive short circuit built into these lyrics: Like Dave Eggers' Heartbreaking Work, every sin of solipsism or overselfconsciousness of which the author might be accused is admitted to (therefore forgiven?) in advance, and the effect is like looking at an object between opposing mirrors, infinitely regressing into complete metaphysical abstraction. The title track yokes Ray Manzarek keyboards to choppy guitar chords and Kasher's wheedling plaints. And \"Friction!\" is an unexpected bleat of punk rock amid all this sardonic Americana, its ardently screamed chorus emphasizing the tossedoff, bonetired quality of the other songs. It may seem as if a record that leaves the listener feeling so vaguely apathetic and depressed should deserve a lower rating, but the music is wellcomposed, and we must rate it according to what it sets out to accomplish, which seems to be to pummel us into jaded submission. On that score, it succeeds admirably. "}