{"label":" Fusetron","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3610/homepage_large.fedb68e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Gang Gang Dance","title":"Gang Gang Dance","text":" 248. I prefer Of Human Bondage to Portrait of an Artist as my sensitive male comingofage tale. 249. Sandletan 250. I blow my nose and nearly always examine the tissue.Claire was smart and had a borderline unhealthy obsession with Elvis Presley. She was beautiful to boot clear olivecomplexion, auburn hair, brown eyes, cornfed figure and I knew that no mere courting ritual could attract her to my sphere of awkward hellos and pudgy exterior. No, for her I had to think of something extravagant, something slightly selfdeprecating but allinall a massive feat of wit and humility. Thus was birthed into the world by my 16yearold hands the weighty and indulgent \"List of 250 Reasons NOT to Go Out with Andrew Bryant\". My reasoning was twofold; (1) the sheer phenomenal length of such a list would express to her my devotion and attention to detail, or lack of anything better to do, and (2) it would plant the adoring seeds of refutation in her mind. For every step I took away from her, she would take three towards me, and for a brief period of my life I was Casanova, handinhand with the complex and stunning belle of only my best dreams.153. I break glass in deserted parking lots because I know that it is both a gorgeous display and a necessary one.As I lay on my sofa watching the revolutions of their recent selftitled vinyl only release dwindle to center, it strikes me that Gang Gang Dance (GGD) perform a similar transparently selfabsorbed trick on their listening public as I did with the divine Miss C: They divulge a slew of seemingly unconnected and oft disturbing images in a successful attempt at shepherding the skeptics to their flock. Like my own situation, though, the group does so in a seemingly uphill battle of their own creation. Judging them merely by the gatefoldcover of this document and given the group's roots in the nowhot Brooklyn indiefolk scene, shared by mates Excepter, Animal Collective, and Mouthus one might presume a safe knowledge of what is contained betwixt cutout photographs of skulls, literature, and band members seemingly hard at work perfecting their sound. Before even setting the needle to the groove, I had an inkling that Brian De Graw and Tim De Wit would bring the abrasive and frankly weird sound of former band Cranium to the record, outfitted with the ChromebywayofAppalachia noise of JackieO alum Josh Diamond. I also took for granted that vocalist Lizzi Bougatsos would yield a lysergic feminine insight to this boysonly genre of reinvented folk, yielding what would at best sound like a distorted Carter Family backed by the No Neck Blues Band.Speakers charged, the first sound I heard was one emanating from my own throat the acidic choking back of my false assumptions.Side A, entitled \"Kentucky\", begins with the gathering of aberrant tones produced by the sly reed of a dense and distorted flute. This eventually cascades into a true rhythm outfitted by a smattering of crude percussive techniques typified by other groups in the same musical vein such as neighbors to the North, Sunburned Hand of the Man. Unlike their brethren, though, GGD manage to keep a decidedly optimistic tone throughout the introduction, an interesting parallel to the operatic dirge of the band's increasingly lilting vocals. Throughout this exercise, guitar lines weave in and out of the periphery falling ultimately to a sturdy deep pulse and a vocal orgy of guttural wrenches and cries.This menagerie continues unabated until a bastard collection of sinusoidal tones washes on the banks of one of the album's few distinct \"tracks,\" \"Rugs of Prayer\". As a woodpecker promenade erects the scaffolding that will hold the weight of the track, a grumbling beat slowly builds, increasing in both rate and complexity. Guitar and synthesizer punch holes in the whining collection of drones, culminating in a grinding halt of munching jaw sounds, creating a startling bleak atmosphere that simultaneously breathes of its own accord and places its hungry fingers around your throat. A chilling song, it fittingly closes the first side on a note of anticipation as to whether this experience will provide an ending with any hint of what one could recognize as \"happy.\"49. One can not overestimate the stupidity of this statement: \"If you can make it in New York, you can make it anywhere.\"The Bside continues GGD's dangerous and exhilarating flirtation with all things lining the sordid underbelly of popular music, beginning with the vocal piece \"The Thread\". Over an occasionally dropped beat, one does not deem to doubt the sincerity of Liz's plainly spoken plea, \"The things they say to you/ What are they worth?\" as skittering electronically derived percussion builds to match her vocal intensity.As is often the case on the album, unbridled fury is duly followed by a resting valley of contemplative instrumentation as the track slowly fades into a pingponging rest, another beat to serve as a future musical base. Atop this mesh, a volatile hihat eventually enters, creating a dialogue that results in a shortlived loop of intense synthstepping heralding the album's theatrical climax and instrumental denouement.The final track as far as I can tell from the confusing linernotes features most prominently the talents of former bandmate Nathan Maddox who unfortunately passed away in 2002, the victim of a chance encounter with a lightning bolt atop his girlfriend's apartment in Chinatown. Beginning on a zenith of buzzing bees droning into evershifting registers, a compelling series of chimes and a shifting rhythm map out a gamelanstyle ascending scale that lends a foreign atmosphere to the nearly indecipherable lyrics. To this mixture, Nate adds a serious chant that stirs the music into a renewed fervor, as the oncesteady drone becomes a feverish roar. The beautiful mess layers itself into a syncopating infinity shortly before a series of distorted vocals signal a timely rest and the end of the album an effect as breathtaking as the first time I listened to Tago Mago, excited and slightly disturbed.207. FatElvis should justly be considered as sexy as youngElvis.Some records you fall in love with in their entirety. Only with time and effort do you begin to discover the subtle intricacies and details that lend to a fuller, richer interpretation of the whole. Gang Gang Dance succeed in backloading this theory, forcing the listener to dedicate themselves piecemeal in the full understanding of this creation falling in love in \"stages,\" if you will. Either way, patient musiclovers will discover that, whether they're enamored by the forest or the trees, this is a record more than worthy of their full attention. "}