{"label":" Social Registry","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3612/homepage_large.1a5c1056.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Gang Gang Dance","title":"Hillulah","text":" Initially released as a limited edition CDR for a November 2004 tour with Animal Collective, this 33minute collage stitches together four live shows recorded between mid2003 and early 2004 at the Knitting Factory, North Six, Passerby, and the Cooler (RIP), and includes an additional 30plus minutes of live video footage. Don't expect Bruce Springsteen's Live 197585: Hillulah isn't a straightup archive. Treating the recordings like found material, drummer Tim Dewitt spliced and shifted hours of twotrack audio into these extensions, and like most of GGD's best work, the rhythmic incantations are hermetically removed from the everyday, so cheers and other livealbum trappings are minimal. Stylistically, the four pieces phase through and reintroduce sounds contained on each GGD release: broken dub, colorful piano embellishments, blurred calypso, oxygendeprived hiccups, island wattles, prismatic fractures, Fluxus sutures, earthy drum circles, etc. At one point Lizzy Bougatsos dives into a cavern after engaging in Tourette's syndrome howls with an unspecified male, astride electronic bleeps, drumstick rattles, and guitar blooms. Elsewhere, guest vocalist Sean Reveron of A Gun Called Tension shouts postpunk vitriol alongside boorish implosion. Occasionally, bits of instrumentation are trashed (like a dropped second), offering the feel of a loop (or lope). Percussion accelerates, tapping a constant, technofriendly palpitation. For genealogy completists, Hillulah glances outside the studio and practice room, suggesting multiple bridges between 2001's Revival of the Shittest, the selftitled Fusetron LP, and God's Money. Personally, I like that it was compiled over just three days, because as one might expect, the transitions are at times sketchy, the movements not entirely insynch. Looseness is its charm. In that sense, Hillulah supplies imperfect (and pretty) offthecuff glances at Gang Gang Dance's past, but realistically speaking, it's a documentation for diehards, not curiosity seekers. "}