{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3614/homepage_large.ba8a615f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Guitar Wolf","title":"Loverock","text":" Seiji. Billy. Toru. Take heed, bubby! These are not the names of your next artfully angular Ikea shelving components. No, these duosyllabic runes are the calling cards of those smashers of everything plastic, that beaten leather trio on the lunatic fringe, the only rock combo to ever tour Argentina on the seat of a black motorbike: Ladies and gentlemen and Kung Fu Ramone, put your fists in the air for Tokyo's own Guitar Wolf. And with that, the commotion begins anew. Returning from 2003's UFO Romantics, Guitar Wolf whips up Loverock, their latest bout of cementcutter gutterrock. Their site awesomely refers to the unit as \"Japanese Greatest 'Jet' Rock 'N' Roll Band,\" a description which is deadeye accurate, since it illustrates the flair in Japan's popular culture for attaching heaps of haughty cool onto seemingly normal or even playedout things. Alyssa Milano and fanatical kiddy toy trends aside, Japanese music often finds an eminently workable intangible at the delta where the traditional meets the confessional. Behind his guitar and sweaty microphone, Seiji's denimleatherandsunglasses look is far less than new: It's even older than his band's revved up Ramonesabilly freakery. But on Loverock, the sound again seems fresh and vital, from the glorious power chords and craptone recording of \"Demon Card\" to \"Blood Splashed Sky\"'s unhinged bass guitar rumble. Remember how cool Carl Perkins fanatic Masatoshi Nagase looked in Mystery Train? Is it any surprise that noted style whore Quentin Tarantino tapped The 5678s' twitchy Cramps camp for Kill Bill, Vol. 1? Everyone knows the truth: American signifiers are just cooler in Japanese hands. And that hand is curled into devil's horns and thrust over the head of the motorcycle hoodlum inside Loverock's cover art heart. There's an argument here for generalized style over fibrous songwriting substance. Diehards will scoff, but Loverock's 27 hyperactive tracks tend to blend into a long snake howl, singeing the air inside a bigbusted amp cone. And anyway, do you want subtlety from three guys who once wrote a song called \"Kawasaki ZII750 Rock 'n' Roll\"? That shit's just not made to go slow. Seiji, Billy, and Toru understand. The opening title track features a winning riff, ringing true through the international language of static and feedback. Each spin of \"Jet13\" destroys one copy of Get Born. This is the sound of unironic rock, the parallel universe to The Datsuns' marketresearched shtick. Guitar Wolf encourages you to get free of that and book a oneway black train ticket to the ack ack love gun smog of \"Katsumiya Tobacco City\". The band does find some time for, er, hooks, particularly on \"Time Machine of Tears\" and the swaggering \"SF Tokyo\". (Somewhere, 800 kids just yelled its chorus.) But mostly Loverock is what you'd expect: bleating, bleeding, and brief blasts of splatter grease and shotgun garage, with a lot of frontend torque and little solos that sneak up behind. (Bass gets into the act, too the Bass Wolf/Billypenned \"Black Hawk\" is one of the album's most visceral stretches.) Guitar Wolf have been at this for well over a decade and the point of their blade has yet to draw blood, so it figures that there's precision and craft behind the creaking, screaming, and trash. Even when Seiji is at his most psycho the reverberating surf 'n' psychobilly sleaze of \"Cosmic Space Girl\", for example you sense he knows exactly what he's doing. After all, according to band lore, he's the actual Guitar Wolf, the interstellar cave dweller giving lesser rock types teeth chattering night terrors. But he's also a traditionalist, committed to finding the jewels that remain in rock's aging chasm, even as the rust flakes and the bad habits keep maligning the damn brand. "}