{"label":" Memphis Industries","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3617/homepage_large.5b608510.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Schreiber","artist":"The Go! Team","title":"Thunder, Lightning, Strike","text":" The ATeam. CHiPS. The Great American Hero. Hunter. Riptide. Magnum P.I. Hardcastle and McCormick. For an alltoobrief moment in the early 1980s, network television seemed to cater almost exclusively to boys aged 715. I was lucky to be a member of this elite class, amongst the target demo of these kidtested/motherdenied telecasts. But for all the hours I spent admiring Lee Majors' protoMacGyver ingenuity and B.A. Baracus' oppressive unsilliness, I have no distinct visual memories of these shows; just a vague montage of militarygrade explosives, dirt mounds, and white limousines. The only thing I remember with any clarity at all is the music those awesome, supercharged theme songs that outblasted any onscreen artillery and promised more stuntpowered glory than Evel Knievel's Snake River Canyon jump. And most of them were written by one man: the cruelly unsung Mike Post, stateside television's own Ennio Morricone. The breadth of Post's stylistic range and uncanny knack for visceral impact have made him one of very few television composers worth remembering, and I guarantee you know more of his work than you think. I can't pretend to know which brilliantly Postthemed programs were broadcast in the UK (although many were), but sixstrong Brighton brigade The Go! Team are clearly just as familiar with his work as any American my age. Their debut album, Thunder, Lightning, Strike, is a hazy blend of nostalgia, evoking that period through a melange of action hero theme songs, early hiphop (from 197982, in particular), and traces of 70s sunshine funk. In a contemporary context, The Go! Team not to be confused with Calvin Johnson's highly inferior 1980s collective of the same name could be shelved alongside The Avalanches and Rjd2, as all three share a party aesthetic whose reflection of bygone eras is just slightly wistful. But one immediately striking difference between them is The Go! Team's reliance on live instrumentation. Though they certainly do their fair share of sampling, they tend to use fragments as a means of fleshing out the battling, overdriven guitars, triumphant trumpet lines, and drum assaults that seem to break through walls with the barreling force of a thousand KoolAid men.Thunder, Lightning, Strike's opener, \"Panther Dash\", wastes no time establishing the band's modus operandi: Its \"Hawaii FiveO\" crashin mates with an openrange harmonica to evoke some lost Sergio Leonedirected \"Speed Racer\" showdown. \"The Power Is On\" pops like puffy rainbow stickers, rubbing determined piano chords against surly trumpets and cheerleader chants. \"Junior Kickstart\" is BMX banditos navigating mudcaked spokes and handlebars through flaggedoff terrain. \"Bottle Rocket\" throws back to Saturday morning cartoons and Brooklyn bgirl breakdowns, with female rapper Ninja lunging from duskcast shadows to conjure a katanawielding Sha Rock. This record recalls, with striking exactness, a very specific time and place that The Go! Team could only have experienced secondhand, through imported television and culture. But then, it was vicarious for us all: Thunder, Lightning, Strike aspires to recapture the imaginary goodnatured competitiveness of a period before realism dominated primetime TV, when cars and helicopters could talk, and good guys always wore pleather. It's all dusky reds and yellows, shagheaded battle royales, exploding tanks, and getting up the next day to relive it on the playground. "}