{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3618/homepage_large.f50c837b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Go! Team","title":"Are You Ready For More? EP","text":" Ian Parton should be on top of the world right now. His home, let'sfuckaroundwithasampler project has grown into an internationally buzzedabout album, Thunder, Lightning, Strike; his band has signed to Columbia for American distribution; and his show at the Intonation Festival brought Pitchfork staffers to tears like the ending of Field of Dreams. Yes, Ian Parton is surely living the good life, hitting his stride, and all sorts of other positive clichés. OR IS HE? You see, certain demands come with a higher profile, and Parton now finds himself besieged by problems that surely never intruded upon his homerecorded masterpiece. Thanks to TLS's reliance upon samples, the Go! Team is now confronted with the terrifying visage of the American legal system, which recently brought the Beastie Boys all the way to the doorstep of the Supreme Court over three notes of flute music. There's also the challenge of having a band on the payroll a feature that has the potential to expand the group's sound, but also carries the risk of hamstringing Parton's creativity. The full ramifications of these new challenges won't be known until the remixed Thunder, Lightning, Strike and the band's second album arrive, but this tour EP sold on the Go! Team's recent jaunt Down Under offers a few early clues. For starters, there's the new \"single version\" of \"Bottle Rocket\", which is presumably washed clean of any musical snippets that might unleash the law's fury. While the differences are minor the most prominent is an exchange of the original's sampled rap for a vocal by frontwoman Ninja it's still disorienting to those off us who have lived with TLS for a year, sort of like seeing your girlfriend with a new haircut. The tracks that resemble TLS' overstuffed hybrids are previously released Bsides. \"The Ice Storm\" bases its jittery, drumless energy around what sounds like The Exorcist's tubularbells score and a mournful organ, while \"We Listen Everyday\" is further proof that the Go! Team's most obvious touchstone, intentional or no, is the Avalanches, thanks to its deft blend of dusty, outoftime artifacts all filtered through a fuzzystylus turntable. More reassuring is new track \"We Just Won't Be Defeated\", which reunites the shrill cheerleader samples with Charlie Brown piano and horn blasts. Like a threeminute sampler of Parton's favorite sounds, it's proof that the band's TLS sound isn't tapped out.  The two remaining songs, previously unreleased \"Did You Feel It Too?\" and \"The Power Is On\" Bside \"Hold Yr Terror Close\", are the most significant deviations from the Go! Team's album, both showcasing drummer Chi Fukami's twee vocals. The tracks are little more than piano and vocals but they also tap the nostalgia button, exchanging the copshow and Morricone score influences for the simple ditties that used to back \"Sesame Street\" montages of playground safety or crayon factories. They got \"Sesame Street\" in England, right? So this touronly EP, whether it becomes a widely available item or not, maintains the Go! Team's momentum. Like most EPs, it's merely a snack to keep fans satiated between albums, but at least it gives us something to add to our file library while we speculate whether the band can navigate its next challenge: avoiding the sophomore slump. "}