{"label":" Environ","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3627/homepage_large.c0edce54.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Morgan Geist","title":"Unclassics","text":" The combination of the electronic dance music community's restored appetite for disco with a more general 80s wanderlust has opened the door for a minor Italo disco rediscovery (pleasant side effect: a less hostile attitude towards camp). Not surprisingly, a handful of Italothemed compilations have been issued in the past 12 months; only a few have been as fun, as revelatory and as representative as Unclassics. Selected, mixed, and bankrolled entirely by Metro Area's Morgan Geist, this mix follows in the tradition of the Environ label head's lovingly deployed Unclassics vinyl releases, which themselves were sort of dustoff and rescue missions for the waylaid orphans of the Italo boom. Cherrypicked and sortamixed by Geist himself, the tracks on this continuous set are strung together by all the things that made Italo interesting, namely a sense of goofiness, color, and theatre. To that end, Italo represents the furthest functional extreme from dance music's other current fascination microhouse; in the interest of balance and perversity, it makes sense that both should be dominating dance music's discourse at same time. Almost uniformly unself conscious, Unclassics amounts to a sevencourse spread of opulent synths, syrupy melodies, and joyously overthetop vocal performances. Dance Reaction's \"Disco Train\" is sung by an adenoidal Cameosoundalike, Victor's \"Go On Do It\" is a campy callandresponse that has slavering raps buzzing up against a female's breathy refrains, and Pluton & Humanoids' \"World Invaders\" contains an opera diva and a vocoded robot anxiously engaging in some sort of epic Wellesian struggle between man and machine (their resolution: duet!) The highlight of the mix is probably Geist's own Hot Edit of Margueritas' shimmering \"Margherita\", which strips it of its madeforEurovision vocals and recasts it as an ever zippier \"Popcorn\". Drenched in peppy analog pings, handclaps, and Mexican horns, it's one of the most ridiculously infectious dance tracks in recent memory. Also good is Eurofunk's \"Manshortage\", which deploys a liquid guitar line over a weird, spindly little electro groove. Come to think of it, the only thing that really approaches disco orthodoxy is the twirling strings of the Purple Flash Orchestra's penultimate \"Freedom Now\" and even that is quickly upended by Gaz Nevada's oddball eightminute closer, \"Special Agent Man.\" It's a weird collection of oblong disco, to be sure, and repeated listens do nothing to diminish its freshness and offkilter appeal. Credit's due to Geist, not just for being prescient enough to release these tracks at the right time, but for swooping down to rescue them in the first place. Even if it is hard to believe that anybody could ever forget source material like this. "}