{"label":" Cold Crush","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3631/homepage_large.7a0f8a91.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"A Gun Called Tension","title":"A Gun Called Tension","text":" Rappers take the verse. Singers, whether live or sampled, take the chorus. That's the prevalent formula when combining hiphop elements with other styles like rock or R&B;, from most of the Judgment Night soundtrack to the JayZ/Link Park mashup to almost every Ashanti cameo. There are many ways to circumvent this reliance on dividing style by structural anchors, the most extreme and perhaps the most interesting of which is to disregard traditional song structures altogether. That's what a collective named A Gun Called Tension do on their selftitled debut, resulting in a highly organic blend of underground hiphop and indierock elements. A Gun Called Tension consists primarily of two musicians: Bay Area rapper Sean Reveron, who collaborated with the Beta Band on their reinterpretation of Three Dog Night's \"One\", and Dann Gallucci, onetime Murder City Devil guitarist and parttime Modest Mouse member. Each corrals a roster of guests: Roots Manuva, Airborne Audio, DJs Andy Sells and Monesa Yamakawa, Coady Willis and Spencer Moody of Murder City Devils, Blood Brother Morgan Henderson, Pretty Girls Make Graves singer Andrea Zollo, and producer Phil Ek. As its name suggests, this project defines itself by tense outrage over political realities like the President's \"immaculate deception\" (\"5+1\"), and over lamentable music trends like the dominance of \"early 80s punk\" in indie music (\"Gold Fronts\"). While that dissatisfaction injects the lyrics with angry, restless energy, the real tension in the group's name comes from its music, which contrasts blaring rock rhythms with jumbled hiphop beats and plays up the resultant friction on tracks like \"Treason\", a punk shoutalong that sets Moody's guttural vocals against Gallucci's grinding guitar and Reveron's upbeat flow. While the rock rhythms inform Reveron's delivery, making his flow more singsongy, he remains cool and eerily imperturbable on the intense \"Thelonious\", which beats like the heart of the album's bristling rage. Closing the album proper (before an acceptable \"Thelonious\" remix by Airborne Audio), \"Document\" unleashes that rage in an explosion of indierock momentum and urban/nocturnal atmosphere. But the album's highpoint is a sung/spoken duet between Reveron and Zollo on \"Electric Chair\", which has all the calm, swaying steadiness of a subway car, even as the uncertainties it documents threaten the singers' selfcontemplation. Toward the end Zollo breaks off and sings wordless notes behind his vocals, and the effect is both bracing and haunting. \"Electric Chair\", like so much of this sturdy album, works an understated contrast between calm and frantic, between ethereal and earthy, between confident and conflicted, between rock and rap. The album loses a little of its steam toward the end, when too many songs play up the rap side of the equation over the rock, but on the whole A Gun Called Tension is surprisingly balanced and beholden to no preconceptions of how these two styles should mix. Ultimately, the album cannot redefine these genres (what album could, especially without the benefit of time and hindsight?), but it does expand the possibilities of both, which is no small feat. "}