{"label":" Earthling","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3634/homepage_large.05602d93.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Greater California","title":"Somber Wurlitzer","text":" Greater California must believe in truth in advertising: They've titled their sophomore effort Somber Wurlitzer, and they ain't lying there is a lot of somber Wurlitzer on this album. Apparently the band acquired one as they began to write the album, and the instrument became the sonic foundation of the record. I've heard it said that the whole thing was recorded in sessions scheduled for the middle of the night, which also makes sense. Between the Wurlitzer's fullbodied, rounded sound and the generally chilled mood of the writing and playing, the album has a subdued, reflective tone, albeit with a healthy rhythmic underpinning. Whichever of the band's four members sings lead (all are simply listed in the liners, and all are multiinstrumentalists) sounds a fair bit like this Ben Gibbard fellow we've been hearing so much about lately, but the Death Cab/Postal Service references don't take you much further than that. Being a band named for the Golden State, it's unsurprising to hear some Beach Boys threads weaving their way through the mix, like the xylophone that duets with the vocals on \"May Day\", as prime an example of the band's basic sound as I could name. The painterly drums are recorded with a wideopen feel, slung low in the mix to propel the big, bounding Wurlitzer chords and swirls of Mellotron, Hammond, and Chamberlin. The languid verses are balanced by rhythmically dynamic refrains that serve as miniclimaxes. The halftime lope of \"In Scarlet\" with jangling guitars rising to presage the sweetly layered harmonies makes it easy to imagine Greater California opening for Kingsbury Manx (indeed they have), and they build the song into a nice startstop passage that gives way to an acoustic verse and a cascading return of the keyboards an electric guitars. Though the general quality is high, two songs in particular demonstrate the band's talent for songcraft. \"Patterns\" shifts between swelling, buzzing instrumental passages and big, whispy harmonies drawn into thin contrails by reverb. The band also adds an oscillating coda that nicely tricks you into expecting a buildup that never comes. Even better is \"Looking In\", a beguiling thing decked out with a jeweled chorus and vaporous vocals that nonetheless coalesce into an eargrabbing hook. With all that Wurlitzer, the album could feel monochromatic, but the instrument acts more as a sonic signature than a gimmick, and the sounds around it vary enough to maintain one's interest. The album starts much stronger than it ends, with a couple of rather inconsequential instrumentals and a weak title track near its close. But even those aren't bad, and ultimately Somber Wurlitzer is a record in which you can make yourself at home. "}