{"label":" Time-Lag","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3641/homepage_large.0a490d8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"GHQ","title":"Cosmology of Eye","text":" As always, the shifting features of the underground continue to assemble and mutate according to their own peculiar gravity. One of the most unexpected and impressive recent formations is GHQ, a trancefolk group made up of Marcia Bassett (Double Leopards, Hototogitsu), Pete Nolan (Magik Markers, Wooden Wand & the Vanishing Voice), and Steve Gunn (provenance unknown). Cosmology of Eye is their first official album following a typically murky history of smallbatch recordings, and here the trio vividly broadcasts an astonishing selection of American primitive drone, slowpuffing acoustic strums, and elongated, dimlylit ragas. The most immediately striking aspect about Cosmology of Eye is how dissimilar it is to Bassett and Nolan's betterknown projects. Listeners familiar with either Magik Markers' spazzrock extremism or the skullwarping mysteries of Double Leopards might initially be taken aback by the graceful, unhurried majesty of GHQ's drowsy astral maneuvers. As such, this album provides a valuable counterbalance to each musician's previous body of work, infusing their steadfast, ecstatic dronerituals with a welcome crosscurrent of fresh oxygen. At times the patient, widescreen visions of Cosmology of Eye can seem like a deliberate reverseimage of Double Leopards' claustrophobic din, as GHQ's quiet orbits trace some of the same mystical arcs as East Coast avantpioneers like Angus Maclise or Henry Flynt. The echoes of these visionary forebears are most evident on the opening \"Drink the Good Moon\", which layers minimalist violin scrapings over distant percussion and shadowy vocal incantations. Though Bassett's vocals are featured more prominently on the bottomless swirl of \"DriftVoid\", lucid conversation is kept to a minimum around these campfires, as everyone instead seems intent on staring at the flames, hoping to discern whatever spirit figures might rise from the ashes. The epic, looseformed raga \"Lie, Live, Make It\" forms the bulk of the album's second side, and its repetitive, unresolvable patterns manage to simultaneously recall the celestial mantras of Popul Vuh and the primal rhythms of the Godz. Better yet is the albumclosing \"Black River Apples\", which features spiraling, Sandy Bulllike strands of guitar and banjo and likely stands as the most unabashedly gorgeous music either Bassett or Nolan have ever had a hand in. Predictably, GHQ have already followed Cosmology of Eye with the fulllength La Poesia Visiva CDR on the Heavy Blossom label. On this release the trio return to the fertile climes of Cosmology of Eye, dipping again into the perpetual dronestreams that seem always to reside just out of view, extending to the horizon in every direction. If Hototogitsu, Double Leopards, and Magik Markers are sometimes able to channel the exact vibrations of an ongoing apocalypse, GHQ instead create the enlightened hymns of posturban survivors. Time will only tell if they will eventually become as endlessly prolific as Bassett and Nolan's other groups, but for now it would appear that GHQ have momentum on their side. "}