{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3646/homepage_large.183e7a3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Greenhornes","title":"East Grand Blues EP","text":" The garage rock trend has peaked and is in obvious decline, but many bands remain ever devoted to their '60s influences: They were playing this kind of revivalist rock long before the minimovement became popular, and they're not going to stop now just because the radioplay prospects are shrinking. The Cincinnatibased Greenhornes have been working this particular corner of rock history since 1999, when they released their roughandtumble debut, Gun for You. Since then, amid several lineup changes that whittled the quintet down to a streamlined trio, the band has released three albums of blistering poprock that's better than most of the groups that stole their thunder, and they have shown their surprising range as Loretta Lynn's backing band (which she christened the Do Whaters) on her stately comeback album, , produced by friendoftheband Jack White. Even though the moment has passed them by, the Greenhornes are sticking to their guns and insisting their influences are timeless.  Their new EP, East Grand Blues, expands their repertoire considerably, thanks to producer and White collaborator Brendan Benson, who polishes and sophisticates the Greenhornes' sound. Whereas their previous material was blisteringly raw and rowdy, these five songs prove much cleaner and more studied, hinting at a slightly different approach and a radically different direction. Parts of the EP sound invigorated by the change and exhibit the trio's range, but this new tack has its drawbacks. East Grand Blues begins with its most lackluster tracks: \"I'm Going Away\" sets dreamy harmonies to a Roger McGuinn guitar theme but seems lifeless, and \"Shelter of Your Arms\" perks up only for Craig Fox's insistent \"Don't walk away!\" on the chorus. The Greenhornes sound subdued and, worse, dull, especially compared to their previous material. Fortunately, on the EP's third track, the band shows more of its cards, recapturing and finetuning the heady momentum and rarified nostalgia the band is known for. \"At Night\" sets a tense Kinksy verse against a darkly psychedelic chorus that's drenched in paisley organ swirls, and yet for all Benson's pristine production, the song sounds completely off the cuff simple, yet spontaneous. Building on that foundation, \"Pattern Skies\" rides Craig Fox's Creationinspired guitar riff and Jack Lawrence's percolating basslines. Woodblock percussion keeps time on the closer, \"Shine Like the Sun,\" as Fox sings one of the band's best melodies, a short series of ascending phrases that's beguiling in its straightforwardness. These songs point to a further refinement of the band's sound on albums to come, but it's hard not to think that East Grand Blues would come across much better in a different context say, three or four years ago. Despite their best efforts, the EP sound twice dated: reminiscent of a decade long past and recalling a revival that's a few years gone. "}