{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3648/homepage_large.d84fa12d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Carlos Giffoni","title":"Welcome Home","text":" One could be forgiven, with the dripping Maya Miller cover art and the optimistic liner notes (\"Wherever you are, welcome home\"), for wondering if Welcome Home was another visit to the new millennial digital drum circle. Because hey, your parents may hate the laptop grinding, but Brooklyn noise is all Woodstock these days; warm and fuzzy's the new old norm. Except, not exactly. Carlos Giffoni, Venezuelan collaborator (Thurston Moore, Jim O'Rourke, Chris Corsano, Nels Cline, etc.) and showthrower extraordinaire (No Fun Fest), has more on his mind than either holding hands or making ears bleed. Clocking in somewhere between Japanese/RRRecords brutality, John Wiese granular ADD, and cuddly States Rights laptop love, Giffoni has shown up ready to synthesize and bridge gaps. That said, don't expect to put this on at bedtime. The least exciting but default mode of Welcome Home is big morphing computer riffs, such as opener \"Welcome Home\", full of buzzsaw high end and an infinite sea of hiss and click. While intricately patterned/planned, only the most patient and masochistic of listeners will find much home in the antagonistically barren opening stretch. But then comes \"Bushwick\", glitching, pulsating, headnodding, rhythmic and full of adrenaline a song worth an album alone. Giffoni finds the human urge buried in the sound (in this case, a primal satisfaction of cascading rhythm) and brings it to the fore. Sometimes he's even able to do this for his own machines: \"The Bold & The Mad\" revs so out of control, moving first way up and down and then (even more improbably) side to side that it actually gets itself sick and has to crawl right out of the frame. In contrast, the digital carnival of \"Who Is Home?\" is entirely human, working as a question that provides its own answer. Over 12 tracks, Welcome Home's rootlessness looms, a potential shipwreck on the shores of ones and zeros threatening to leave the listener searching for something remotely familiar to grab and hold. Well, this track is safe harbor. The cracked carousel melody is as much a home as any hideaway, built of warm tones ground up and bathed in, the sound inviting and impossibly soft. Even as Giffoni starts breaking it up, he does so with a trilling birdsong of an interruption, and when the granular wash does comes back, it is shockingly without malice. The sendoff \"Departure Time\" is just as cheery, a pleasant analog synth rotation of the now familiar carnival tones, simplistic and primitive, finding beneath all the hiss a heart less complex than merely identified. "}