{"label":" Secret Eye","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3651/homepage_large.e28a816a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Larkin Grimm","title":"Harpoon","text":" If nothing else, Larkin Grimm's solo debut, Harpoon, stands as quiet testament to how quickly the alien can transform into the familiar. Had this collection appeared just a few short years ago, Grimm's idiosyncratic form of rustic Appalachian folk might've sounded like a garbled transmission from another century, if not another world. As it stands, however, Harpoon is instead at risk of seeming downright commonplace, submerged beneath the onrushing tide of similarly constructed freefolk deviations. Yet it would be a mistake to overlook Grimm's wondrous, exotic creations simply due to the unfortunate timing of her album's arrival, just as it would be to dismiss this transfixing album as the work of a carpetbagger. Based in Providence, R.I., Grimm is a former member of the Dirty Projectors information that does little to prepare the listener for the delicate, highly stylized folk of Harpoon. Guiding her way with little more than guitar, dulcimer, and multitracked vocals, Grimm here quilts together Born Heller's icy, backwoods songcraft, Jana Hunter's homespun, lofi shimmer, and the ecstatic vocal peaks of Christina Carter. Thanks in part to Sophie Dixon's ornate, handdrawn artwork, Harpoon also bears marked resemblance to the gothic folk of musician and comic artist Dame Darcy. And though the album is comprised entirely of original material, the influence of Grimm's roots in the Georgia foothills frequently creep through, lending the music a deepset, handeddown fiber that sounds at once staunchly traditional yet still somehow quite unearthly. On \"Pigeon Food\", Grimm puts down a melody as pure and ancient as rainwater; sung in the sweet, artless manner of someone out hanging wash on the line, with only her eccentric multitracked chorus to date it as a modern recording. Things soon come decidedly more unraveled on the lengthy \"Future Friend\", when her layered encircling vocals descend like a flock of barn swallows and carry off the backporch. Stranger still is \"Harpoon Baptism\", a incisive portrait of heartsick longing that eventually culminates with Grimm channeling various animal noises, witch cackles, and spirited inhuman howls.  Music this singular and possessed seems to demand lyrics to match, but unfortunately the slim narratives of Grimm's ballads and illstarred romantic chronicles often fail to meet the mark. Cryptic, outoftime pieces like the opening \"Entrance\", shudder to a halt behind such earthbound lines as \"I would follow him anywhere he wants me to/ And I would sing for him in a crowd of New York hipsters.\" Throughout the album, Grimm's lyrics are too consistently forlorn and lovestruck to doubt their sincerity, and as such she proves able to deliver them with an extraordinary breadth of conflicting passions. One only hopes that next time her themes prove ageless enough to better equal the livewire magic inherent within her radiant music.  "}