{"label":" Kora","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3653/homepage_large.2a378260.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Gregor Samsa","title":"55:12","text":" Gregor Samsa's longawaited full length was recorded upwards of 18 months ago but sat idle while the band toured, took time off, and generally decided what to do next. In the interim, a split with Red Sparrowes was released and quickly sold out, but the band is just finally issuing its phenomenal debut, which features a mix of hushed beauty, dark, dense melodies, and soft, coed vocals. The band's sound features many of the stronger characteristics of vocal postrock: The songs generally wrap up around the sevenminute mark, and feature quiet atmospherics between loud outbursts of guitar and drums. Melodies build over the course of a track, rarely shifting gears quickly but leaving plenty of room for the instruments to interplay, creating a fabric of sound in which layers are packed densely and no single musician overtakes the others. Covocalists Nikki King and Champ Bennett play off of one another but rarely overlap. Bennett's vocals are so low that at times they're almost a mumble, while King's angelic voice floats dreamlike over the music beneath it. On the album opener, \"Makeshift Shelters\", their voices harmonize over warped piano and manipulated tape droning; it isn't until a few minutes into \"Even Numbers\" that the band erupts, dispelling any concern about this being a strictly ambient affair. The players excel at building tension through a use of negative space. On \"Loud and Clear\", the instruments drop off, leaving a lonely guitar to calmly pick away. After a minute or so, King's soft voice can be heard in the background, providing delicate vocals. \"We'll Lean That Way Forever\" is another experiment in ambiance and effects. Here, quiet guitar feedback is augmented by vocals from King that were put to tape six months prior to the rest of the album. Her voice has been twisted and warped, adding a haunting sense of otherworldliness to the track. But the strongest moments sprinkled throughout 55:12 are those when softer, more peaceful sounds are contrasted with bursts of driving uptempo melody. It may not be a new formula, but Gregor Samsa manage to breathe some life into it. "}