{"label":" Barclay","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3654/homepage_large.5ffe6d38.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Monsieur Gainsbourg Revisited","text":" If the tribute album isn't the lowliest of all arts, it's pretty close. The number of good ones can be counted on two hands, if you're feeling particularly generous, and the number of bad ones would give an EPA director night sweats over all that future landfill space. (And that's before we get into the string quartet tributes or jazz remix discs.) There are so many variables going into each one the unfuckwithability of the original compositions, the skill set of the interpreters, the compiler's choices of both song and artist that their uniform awfulness is kind of amazing. And I can't imagine there's much money in them. And yeah, this one sucks, too. Serge Gainsbourg is one of the 20th century's great perverts. I mean, fuck music, Gainsbourg would make Boccaccio blush. A Russian Jew whose parents fled to Paris from the Bolsheviks, Gainsbourg studied art, painted, and eventually found his way into a musical. He was far from a pinup and initially wanted to just write the songs, not sing them. But in the late 1960s, Gainsbourg met, befriended, and eventually bedded Brigitte Bardot, with whom he recorded a string of duets whose overripe arrangements were only matched by their leering eroticism. After splitting from Bardot, Gainsbourg repeated the trick with Jane Birkin. A wit, a wag, and a dirty old man, Gainsbourg was the stereotype of the literate, oversexed Frenchman come to life. And though his commercial fame peaked in the early 70s, his work only became more complex and, well, filthy as time went on. (And really, the fact that his only remote American hit, \"Je T'aime...Mon Non Plus\" stalled at No. 69 how good is that?) He died in 1991. So lets get a bunch of Englishspeaking artists to pay homage to him. And then, wait for it, lets translate the lyrics into English. Badly. (Oh and the titles too, for good measure.) Think about that for a minute. An artist known for his subtle wordplay, puns, and allusions run through Alta Vista Babelfish and factchecked by an 8th grade French class. Have you clicked off the review yet? Things don't fare much better on the musical end. A decade ago, Tricky could have turned \"Au Revoir Emmannuel\" into something dark, demonic, and sexy. Today he's, well, Tricky in 2006. Likewise, the inclusion of meatandpotatoes Britrock band the Rakes is baffling, since they deliver a meatandpotatoes Britrock rendition of \"Le Poinconneur des Lilas\". A Futureheads rendition would have been goofy, like a teenage boy trying to write erotica, but at least would have had a certain charm to it. And could anyone be more wrong for the ironic twists of Gainsbourg songs than the ultraearnest Michael Stipe? (Oh, Brian Molko, you and your yarl can fuck back off to the 90s.) The slim, so to speak, highlights: You have to assume that the old man would have approved of Chan Marshall and Karen Elson's version of \"Je T'aime\" almost a parody of breathy, laconictothepointofcatatonia female delivery. The Kills strip down \"Le Chanson De Slogan\" to its frame and take it as black as their hair. Portishead sound thinner and less glutinous than they did a decade ago, closer to the rustic ambience of the Beth Gibbons solo album (though that old \"Sour Times\" melodrama would have worked a treat in this context). And Jarvis Cocker and Marc Almond are the only two people on this record who should be covering Serge Gainsbourg, even if both are a bit too panto for their own good. With a more imaginative compilerand fewer Big Names whose fame peaked years ago Monsieur Gainsbourg Revisited could have turned out so much different. Just imagine Matthew Herbert (who's already remixed \"Bonnie and Clyde\" to great effect) and Roísín Murphy tackling one of these songs. Le sigh. "}