{"label":" Hackensaw Boys","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3661/homepage_large.3e75ba69.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Hackensaw Boys","title":"Keep It Simple","text":" As long as kids are pummeling pots in basements and snatching vintage amps from Goodwill, there will be musical genres that challenge, if not completely subvert, all acceptable notions of aural pleasure. Even bluegrass was one back in the day, and though the lifestyle surrounding it isn't as instantly seditious as mohawkandsafetypincirca'77, the music itself is just as belligerent particularly when it's taken out of its historically benign porchandmoonshine context. Fiercely cacophonous, often percussionless, and defiantly lurching toward a flurried, volatile climax, proper bluegrass is hardly the most palatable stuff. Sam Bush may be more badass than he gets credit for. Think of the overall sporting, wheatchewing jugbands of 1910s and 20s, who acted with a certain degree of selfawareness, amping up the hillbilly wackiness with novelty songs about donkeys and/or whiskey. Before Bill Monroe came along, shit was all gimmick and goof; in the 1940s, Monroe put on a suit and sped it up, pushing the vocals higher and higher and parsing in jazz solos and bouts of improvisation. For better or worse, things kept evolving, and now, over fifty years later, hundreds of \"newgrass\" bands have dragged the genre (at present, significantly, painfully watered down) onto woodsy college campuses, lighting up big, fat joints all across America. Thankfully, Charlottesville, Virginia's Hackensaw Boys have defiantly eschewed the lazy, neohippy circuit in favor of staying freakishly traditional and, incidentally, also opening for bands like Modest Mouse (or joining 2002's Unlimited Sunshine tour, alongside The Flaming Lips and Cake, after John McCrea specifically extended an invite). These are startlingly indie twists for a band with eight members (four of whom play banjo; one of whom is named Pee Paw, another Skeeter, and another The KookyEyed Fox), no drummer, and a penchant for fiddles. But the Hacks have always been a curious outfit. With origins that effectively predate the Smithsonian Anthology of American Folk revolution spawned by 2000's aptly titled O Brother soundtrack, The Hackensaw Boys are surprisingly wellsteeped in the picked, howled traditions of the American south, and their second selfreleased record, Keep It Simple, is packed with vigorous, pitchy bursts. Keep It Simple doesn't perfectly reflect the band's fastandfierce live show, but it offers a solid glimpse of their proclivity for catchy melodies, classic harmonizing, and stringy noodling. Somehow, the band infuses their grassy tornado with brazen punk attitude and catchy pop structure, while simultaneously remaining vehemently sincere; tracks like \"Dance Around\" feature prototypically bluegrassian lyrics (\"Dancin' with the girls/ That's a mighty fine thing/ You ain't gotta buy no wedding ring\") without mocking the traditions from which they came. If you're of the jaded sort, this kind of antiirony can be a little jarring. The first time I heard The Hackensaw Boys strum up their flurried mess of scrappy, eightman bluegrass, I was just off a plane from New York City, tired and twitchy, curled fetal into the grubby, wooden floorboards of Charlottesville's Starr Hill Music Hall, pitifully slurping a cold pale ale. Eventually, The Hackensaw Boys puttered onstage, smirking and vaguely feral, crowding three tall microphones and forming a tight, acoustic cluster of reeling fiddles, banjos, guitars, harmonica, accordion, washboard, upright bass, charismo, dobro, and mandolin. My own cranky posturing aside, I dug the display: a noisy army of quick strings and wide, clever eyes spinning their own (slightly bizarre) brand of thick mountain music, with manic, nasal vocals and rowdy instrumentation. The Hackensaw Boys are all fairly young, and the sounds they make wild, boisterous, merry are so unexpectedly raw, so intensely traditional and sincere, that it inevitably takes a few minutes to acclimate. By the time I'd stopped staring blankly, I realized I was fully and completely interested. These boys were singing things like, \"Oh my goodness/ Oh my God/ Oh my Ruby Pearl!\" and not giving a shit about whether people thought it was funny or outmoded or awkwardly abrasive. Fucking punk rock. It turns out that most people in Charlottesville can offer up their own version of a Hackensaw story, and it almost invariably includes a handful of extraneous, contextual details: a grassy field, a purple mountain, eight kegs of beer, a 1964 GMC touring coach, the Blue Moon Diner and a hot platter of buttery flapjacks. There's something intensely anachronistic about The Hackensaw Boys that, even within the overexamined paradigm of American roots music, seems to force people to acknowledge their surroundings and carefully consider the contrast. And that kind of examination is rarely a bad thing. "}