{"label":" Hut","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/367/homepage_large.1ecdc016.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"Auteurs","title":"Das Capital: The Songwriting Genius of Luke Haines & The Auteurs","text":" I doubt that most artists enjoy selecting their greatest hits for a package like this. More often than not, these collections are forced by market necessities, imply the end of an era, and lead to inevitable bifurcation between fan favorites and the label's idea of a hit. Imagine, then, the enormity of such undertaking for a songwriter whose shtick involves both unflagging selfadmiration and utter contempt for labels, marketing, colleagues and fans.I'm talking, of course, about the UK's Luke Haines, the leader of the defunct Auteurs and, with John Moore, the creator of the minimalistpop project Black Box Recorder. Evidently facing a contract obligation to ransack his old band's four albums for a hits package, Haines found a conceptually flawless way out: He rented out a symphony orchestra and proceeded to rerecord eight of Auteurs' songs in nauseatingly grand, mellowgold arrangements that most definitely do not have to be heard to be believed.Das Capital: The Songwriting Genius of Luke Haines and the Auteurs is a primo Situationist stunt. From the title on down, it concerns itself purely with the sound of money. Fat with winds, strings, chimes, echo chambers the size of Wembley stadium and, per liner notes, \"the greatest sax solo in the history of popular culture,\" the album is meticulously designed to mimic fundraiser quickies like The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra Plays the Music of Oasis. There's even an overture, ingeniously hidden before the first track (you have to hit pause and rewind well into negative numbers to play it). The result, needless to say, is patently and intentionally ludicrous; it could be one of the greatest jokes ever played on a label by an artist.I can't help but applaud Das Capital's metaarchitecture, which incorporates everything from the cover art to the attendant interviews filled with bragging about the project's cost (press manipulation has always been an integral part of Haines's work his solo debut came out the same week he called for a \"pop strike\" from the oped page of The Guardian). One small quibble, however, remains: The album is unlistenable.From the first notes of \"How Could I Be Wrong?\", a formerly jangly number slowed down to a stately stupor, it becomes painfully clear that Haines' songwriting does not lend itself well to bombast. His Auteurs albums, especially the sophomore Now I'm a Cowboy, did make pleasant use of strings, but the arrangements were never allowed to overtake the laconic lead melodies. The gag wears off awfully soon; what's worse, Haines a C+ vocalist at best is unable to complete it by belting his lines like Tom Jones or dropping down into the Barry White register (the only two appropriate options, given the arrangements). He sings in his usual reedy voice, sounding all but lost in the swirl. Of the eight supposed chestnuts, only \"Baader Meinhof\" holds up, but the original off the 70sterroristnostalgia concept album was awash in Moroccan strings to begin with. The obligatory three new songs barely register; \"Satan Wants Me\" (\"...for my mind/ To marry his daughter/ Have a child\") provides an exception by running its humor into the ground more violently than his others.As any piece of conceptual art Haines claims to despise so, Das Capital is primarily valuable as a conversation catalyst. As a piece of selfassessment, it's useless: Haines' liner notes bring to mind Nabokov's Strong Opinions, wherein Vladimir Vladimirovich spares a couple of kind words for Joyce, but only for Ulysses. Haines operates in a similar mode here. He assigns his albums short captions (\"my second masterpiece\") and stars (most get five out of five), obliterates any suggestion of collaboration within the Auteurs, and blurbs a remix album by \\xB5Ziq thus: \"Remixes by some kid from Wimbledon for L500. A lot of money for a teenager. Never listened to it myself. Went on to sell well in America. 100% of the publishing goes to me.\"Paired with the deliberately subpar stuff on the album, the braggadocio becomes suffocating: What we appear to have on our hands is a spoof of the very notion of quality. I would never recommend a living soul to purchase Das Capital. And yet, full marks are due to Haines for making good on the hissed mission statement from his Oliver Twist Manifesto: \"You better believe me when I say/ I never wanted to be liked.\" "}