{"label":" Nettwerk","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3662/homepage_large.b29feaa6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Hackensaw Boys","title":"Love What You Do","text":" The Hackensaw Boys have developed a solid reputation as purveyors of fine Appalachian bluegrasstinted folk, but after listening to their new album, Love What You Do, I've come to the conclusion that they're really just a band of indie revivalists who search for authenticity in the esoteric and traditional. It's just that their tradition is much older, more rural, and less popular than those of most other indie bands we review here Bill Monroe and Ralph Stanley instead of Brian Wilson or Joy Division. I don't mean that observation as a purely negative criticism, but I'm skeptical of Love What You Do in the same way I'm skeptical of Interpol, the Killers, and other bands who hew closely to their influences. Exhibiting the Boys' capable, if unspectacular, picking and fiddling, several songs veer toward recreation rather than reinterpretation, as though their primary goal is to write songs that sound like they were written decades ago. \"Buildings Are Our Cages\" meditates on our modern social enslavement, using a caterpillar as an exemplar of personal freedom. Addressing unsavory politics via a train metaphor, \"Cannonball\" is the musical equivalent of an old editorial cartoon, with only a mention of Columbine making clear they're talking about the 2000s and not the 1900s. \"Parking Lot Song\" and \"Kiss You Down There\" are fauxrandy romps, but does anyone really need a bluegrass song about oral sex? At least I hope the Boys intend the chorus \"I wanna kiss you down there\" as a double entendre. If not, we need to talk. The Boys sound best when they sound thoroughly modern, less beholden to tradition and more focused in the present. Slower and quieter numbers like \"Bordertown\" and \"All Good Dogs\" allow for more candid reflection, making sore thumbs of the faster numbers. Opening the album, \"Sun's Work Undone\" is a tender lament about impossible love, made all the more poignant for Dave Sickmen's rough vocals. But it's \"Alabama Shamrock\" that proves the highlight of Love What You Do. Seeming at first like an ode to the creative freedom of touring, the song eventually complicates its sentiment, aptly and affectingly conveying the outoftime feeling of being born too late, of identifying so strongly with the past that you can never make the present your home. That the Boys sounds so rooted in the here and now only makes the song more powerful and that makes you wish they'd stick around. "}