{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3678/homepage_large.a49814fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Half-Handed Cloud","title":"Halos & Lassos","text":" If Christian music has been less maligned of late, its saving grace has been a handful of artists who approach their faith with nuance and vulnerability rather than the kind of oblivious cheerleading that is the genre's earmark. So when Sufjan Stevens pens a song as compassionate as \"John Wayne Gacy, Jr.\", he's hardly promoting clowncostumed serial murder. Instead, he's acknowledging that life isn't as black and white as the majority of Christian music would have you believe. You'd think a little of that emotional depth would have rubbed off on John Ringhoefer, aka HalfHanded Cloud, when he served as trombonist in Stevens' touring band, the Illinoisemakers. But on Halos & Lassos, HalfHanded Cloud's fourth fulllength, Ringhoefer continues his relentlessly upbeat exploration of his Christian faith with all the willful naiveté of a Sunday School lesson planner. It's hard not to roll your eyes at cutesy declarations like, \"The world is still the Lord's/ The devil's just a squatter\" or the nursery rhyme directness of \"You get all the credit and you get all the praise/ Got us out of messes and pulled us out of graves.\" But, to be fair, Ringhoefer's songs are teeming with enough biblical allusion and tongueincheek theology to elevate it above 99% of Christian music. Like past HalfHanded Cloud albums, Ringhoefer doesn't skimp on sugary pop, but Halos & Lassos strays from his formula with the addition of the Omnichord, a vintage synthesizer that spits out a canned rhythm section, video game soundtrack keys and a gurgling water effect. It's a novelty that tires very quickly. But still, out of the Omnichord's thrift store lofi, each song blossoms with the integration of an organic instrumental palate. Beautiful passages of piano, banjo, marimba, and bells erupt out of the monochrome of ersatz drums and sustained eightbit tones. On the album's longest track, \"You've Been Faithful to Us Clouds\", the song bobs along to a synth arpeggio before abruptly transitioning into a saccharine multipart harmony. And as sparse live drums punctuate Ringhoefer's oohs, the vibrancy of a live performance rescues the song from languishing in demo hell.  HalfHanded Cloud's real draw, though, is his peculiar, ADHD take on pop music. With 19 songs clocking in at just shy of a halfhour, the album's spitfire sequencing speeds by, making you feel like the Ramones wrote some really epic songs. It's a quirk that's both frustrating and enticing: There's no chance of digesting these songs on the first, second, or even third pass, but the blinkandyou'llmissit nature of it all leaves a listener hungry to make sense of such a confounding blur. If you're blessed with the patience to unpack such a dense record, Halos & Lassos has enough compelling melody to help you forgive that ubiquitous Omnichord and some truly cloying lyrics. And, surely, that's something worthy of our praise. "}