{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3679/homepage_large.5f6ef337.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher F. Schiel","artist":"Halifax Pier","title":"Put Your Gloves On and Wave","text":" Last year's selftitled record from Halifax Pier delivered melancholy to all who would listen, with a violinist and a cellist added to the standard rock quartet of two guitarists, a bassist, and a drummer. Rather than only serving ornamental duties, the classical string counterparts of Halifax Pier play integral roles in the musical conversations of the music. While Halifax Pier hasn't completely rid themselves of their despair, they seem to be more optimistic these days. Half of the six tracks on their sophomore fulllength, Put Your Gloves On and Wave, are instrumentals, and the songs with lyrics seem to see a brighter light at the end of the tunnel in contrast to the downtrodden verses of love and loss that permeated their 1999 selftitled debut. \"Lightly Noise\" is the most lighthearted track, with a thumping basssnare beat in two, fingersnapping, and a pretty fingerpicked guitar line. The lyrics are selfreferential as they tell of the pervasiveness of music with lines like, \"The rhythm in our steps and the thumping in our breasts.\" The track closes with an alltogethernow singalong taken from a Chris Williamson song, \"Song of the Soul.\" It's fairly uplifting stuff. \"Passing,\" while not so overtly joyful, is lovely. Opening with the sound of a distant train, wind noise accompanies two winding acoustic guitar lines one for each ear. The marchtempo drums and the melodic bass stylings of Greg Burns are eventually accompanied by interlocking phrases of violin and cello. At one point, the violin even breaks into a frenetic stringcrossing arpeggio straight from Vivaldi's The Four Seasons. Then comes the downright gorgeous last verse, in which frontman Charles Sommer's vocals are echoed by guest Colleen Doyle: \"Let my empty spirit rise tonight.\" \"That Old Grizzly Thing,\" the instrumental that opens the record, fades in with a meandering conversation between the cello and violin. The drum and light electric guitar enter to reveal a dark waltz. The euphonious harmonic ornaments of the acoustic guitar and rooted bassline actually sound more lovely than grizzly. Then there's \"Sew Your Gloves On,\" which features sections in seven. The track is slightly reminiscent of Godspeed You Black Emperor in their more coherent moments, when they're not so damned consumed with the collapse of modern society. And finally, the album closes with \"Our Pape,\" a meandering track that feels closer to something from the Windham Hill collection than anything remotely indie rock. So, yeah. Halifax Pier makes pretty music. While it's rarely emotionally consuming, and overall isn't anything notably new or groundbreaking, it does make for a calming listen. What more do you want? It's nice. "}