{"label":" Sequence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/371/homepage_large.3fa9e52c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Dan the Automator","title":"Wanna Buy a Monkey?","text":" Rock Critic Standby Statement #842: we're now living in the Age of the Producer. It's true. A close look at the pop charts from the last couple of years reveals that today's biggest hitmakers aren't Britney or JLo or Madonna, but EQ wizards Timbaland and the Neptunes. Not since the heydays of Motown and Phil Spector have the men behind the board carried such bankability in the industry. Now, more and more, we're seeing these überproducers cutting out the middlemen, releasing albums under their own name or a slight variation thereof (N.E.R.D.). It's no surprise, then, that Dan Nakamura, aka Dan the Automator, aka Nathaniel Merriweather, aka \"dude, that Asian guy from the Gorillaz,\" wants to get in on the action. For the past halfdozen years, the Automator has been the Timbaland/Neptunes correlate for the underground, a knobtwiddling ambassador between the worlds of alternative hiphop and indie rock. Collaborating with everyone from Kool Keith to Jon Spencer, Nakamura pulls off the seemingly impossible task of retaining his street cred while appealing to the less rapinclined (pronounced \"white\") crowd whose rap collection doesn't run beyond Ill Communication. I don't hold myself above the latter group: the Deltron 3030 project was one of the few hiphop albums to penetrate my guitarloyal musical sensibilities, though that was at least half because I'm a scifi geek who enjoys hearing Neuromancer and Gamera namedropped. I'll even admit to enjoying the Gorillaz album, the singles from which have provided the first digestible MTV fare in years. And frankly, anyone who collaborates with Mike Patton earns a spot on my good list. No matter what the project, the Automator consistently has brought a sound just organic enough, just diversely influenced enough, just \"safe\" enough to catch my ear. So the idea of an Automatorchosen mixtape session, billed as \"a look into my head\" by the man himself, appealed to me. Featuring the likes of Tortoise and Air rubbing up against Brand Nubian and Dilated Peoples, I expected a gonzo display of effortless genrehopping and styleblending, despite Nakamura not being wellknown for his DJ scratching skills. All right, yeah, you know from the rating where this is heading: Wanna Buy a Monkey? didn't live up. Containing a number of selections from the Automator's own projects alongside some of his handpicked favorites from other artists, Monkey comes off resembling either a padded greatesthits comp or an \"inspired by\" soundtrack for a nonexistent movie. What it certainly isn't is a DJ mix where previously hidden links between seemingly unrelated songs are unearthed through the ancient art of juxtaposition. Part of the problem lies in the musically segregated organization of the album, as the Automator's hiphop selections are clumped into the front and back, while the indiefriendly picks comprise the creamy center. This allows Nakamura to splice tracks together with minimal segue ingenuity, mostly using the Radio 101 technique of slowly fading in the beat from the ondeck song. Meanwhile, the one opportunity to flaunt highflying mixing ability, Deltron 3030's \"Positive Contact\" into Air's \"Le Soleil Est Pres de Moi,\" is handled with all the dexterity of a onearmed drummer (Rick Allen notwithstanding). Sadly, these short betweensong mixtures, as inventive as they ain't, are the most compelling manipulations of the album. The Automator's additions to the members of his allstar team fall under the categories of nearinvisible (the vocal sample added to a portion of Tortoise's \"Seneca\") or distracting (the generic beat and \"one, two\" vocals clumsily added to Air's ethereal \"Le Soleil\"). Even Nakamura's own productions (Lovage, XEcutioners, an early Black Rob track) are left alone, with only the \"original version\" of Gorillaz' \"Latin Simone\" deviating significantly from the album version. To Dan's credit, Wanna Buy a Monkey? confirms what was already apparent from his own work namely, that he has classy and diverse musical taste. There's hardly a disagreeable pick among the sixteen present, and most reflect the same sensibilities Nakamura adds to his own music: live instruments, Latin flavoring, positive lyrical messages. But something tells me I would be more sold on the liner notes' claim that he has \"something very personal to say on this record\" if the artists presented were early influences rather than contemporaries. It's hard to imagine who would want to pick up this disc, as most Automator fans would likely own a majority of the cuts appearing with minuscule changes here. Perhaps Wanna Buy a Monkey? could be justified as a listening guide to point fans towards artists with the Automator stamp of approval, but this goal could have been just as easily accomplished by reading an online interview and booting up your Audiogalaxy satellite. And with almost nothing in the way of imaginative mixing, never mind a $16.99 price tag; Wanna Buy a Monkey? seems nothing more than an early contender for The Onion's \"Least Essential Albums of 2002\" list. "}