{"label":" Knitting Factory","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3721/homepage_large.d0569f89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Hasidic New Wave and Yakar Rhythms","title":"From the Belly of Abraham","text":" Klezmer jazz: in theory, a very cool idea, especially because I can always do with a little more chaotic joy in my life. It seems that, of all the things to come out of the New York City underground in the 90s, this music has been the most massively appealing. Some of the city's biggest names have this trend to thank for their prosperity: Dave Douglas (with John Zorn's Masada, and his own Tiny Bell Trio), Chris Speed (Pachora, Erik Friedlander), and Jim Black (Pachora, Tiny Bell Trio) all made major statements playing this music. Bands like Pachora, Masada and Hasidic New Wave take the traditional harmony and melody of Klezmer and other Eastern European music, and fuse it with contemporary rhythms and improvisation concepts, quite often coming up with entirely fresh sounds. The only problem is that the concept behind the music can never really make the music itself inherently fun to listen to. I will say that From the Belly of Abraham isn't exciting for me not because of its nowfamiliar fusion of Klezmer and jazz, but because of its relentlessly \"lite\" (a feat, considering that the playing is theoretically closer to John Zorn than David Sanborn) and/or \"smooth\" atmosphere. Where I want a hard beat or recklessly inspired head, I get ultraclean production and \"tasty,\" \"in the pocket\" and \"tight\" grooves. Where I beg for something interesting, or just something to get me on my feet, I get something close to the Saturday Night Live Band playing Masada tunes. More amazing is that Hasidic New Wave is made of guys I love: Frank London is an excellent trumpet player, who I first heard on Zorn's classical work Kristallnacht, but is equally adept at straightahead jazz; Greg Wall is a similarly excellent tenor sax player, who has the chops and voice to make music ten times more distinct than this; David Fuiczynski is an incredible guitarist, and I've never heard him so laid back (read: muffled) as on this release; drummer Aaron Alexander has worked with folks like Satoko Fujii and Tim Berne. It just doesn't stand to reason that they would form a band that plays relatively smooth jazz. To top it off, they brought in a Senegalese drum ensemble called Yakar Rhythms, a trio of percussionists playing some very complex, kinetic patters under all of the tunes on this album. This really is neat stuff, and I wouldn't mind if someone removed all of the band tracks and just let me listen to Yakar Rhythms play. But that isn't an option. In any case, they do lend an air of eccentricity and genuine excitement to the mix. The first song is \"WaawWaaw\" (written by bassist Fima Ephon), and it's clear from the start that Hasidic New Wave will take the beaten path. London's expert muted trumpet lead is doubled by tenor over a slow jam beat and repetitive bassline. As Yakar Rhythms reel off polyrhythms in the background (yes, the production, unfortunately, views this trio as a background element, rather than letting their infectious energy take the lead), the sheer precision and efficiency of the band's playing starts to get me down. There's an interesting invocation from one of the Yakar (presumably in Senegalese) that threatens to bring the tune out of its studiopro rut, but ultimately to no avail. \"Yemin HaShem\" is a new arrangement of a 19th century Jewish hymn, and begins promisingly with a mournful exposition that quickly leads to a fantastic percussion solo. But just as the energy gets good, and the whole thing seems on the verge of explosion, they commence a fairly standard James Brown (think \"Cold Sweat,\" but accompanied by Senegalese drummers, of course) groove. Why? They play the tune proper over this groove (even going so far as to add the redoubtable Jamie Saft on funky organ), and I wonder how the Saturday Night Live Band would sound playing this. Probably about the same, even down to the typically expert tenor solo. It isn't all a downer: Fiuczynski's \"Frydginator\" takes the exotic beats and comes with a manic head to match the intensity. Yes, it sounds more than a little like Masada, but then it's basically straight Klezmer with a jazz bent, so that's understandable. Also, the solos are very nice, with Wall and London trading fours with real energy and very important seemingly little concern for hitting a wrong note, playing out of tune, or sounding \"tight.\" I hear some people actually go for this type of thing rather than my preferred \"noise\" music (read: music you're not likely to play at a dinner party and/or hear on NPR), but I just have a hard time getting past the perfectly fineness of it. "}