{"label":" Zoe","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3725/homepage_large.66fef86c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Juliana Hatfield","title":"In Exile Deo","text":" July 4th, 2004: I'm standing across the street from the house Juliana Hatfield grew up in, watching Duxbury, Massachusetts' 112th annual 4th of July parade. Since 1892, our mutual hometown has gone from coastal shipping powerhouse to obscenely wealthy suburb; when the Farrelly brothers made millions off Something About Mary, Bobby flexed his wallet on Powder Point, an outcropping of massive waterfront lots leading up to the longest wooden bridge in America. It's an appropriate place for largess, since the richest man on the planet once called it home: Shipping magnate Ezra Weston built his empire here, importing handcrafted French wallpaintings for a lavish yellowbrick home that stands unchanged since its completion in 1810. These days, my Mom helps decorate the manor for an annual open house. In 29 years, I've written to two musicians. Juliana Hatfield was the first. I was 16, new to the Blake Babies, and utterly stupefied to find the excellent Earwig's correspondence address was just down the street from my house. Juliana wrote back from the road, while touring Hey Babe; naturally, her postcard was a cherished high school treasure, coming from the biggest celebrity in the 02332 postcode (Joe Perry hadn't moved in yet). I wrote her again, God knows why, during a depressed freshman year, and included a tape of my high school band (we also covered Dinosaur Jr's \"Raisans\"). Unsurprisingly, I didn't hear back: Beyond my tedious moping, Hatfield had already graced the cover of Sassy and had a video in daytime rotation on MTV. I look back on her solo career with healthier distance now, and the reassuring tone of this album indicates that Hatfield's finally gotten some distance as well. The magazine cover \"girl power\" hooha, her My SoCalled Life guest spot, and the Atlantic Recordsdriven Evan Dando \"thing,\" are behind her. Journalists have finally stopped bringing these things up, and Hatfield seems to have overcome the crippling anxiety borne of waiting for them to drop the \"V\" bomb. She had whole chunks eaten out of her quite literally by Atlantic Records in the 1990s; following the label's miserable inability to market her music (how could you fail to break a song like \"Universal Heartbeat\" in postBreeders 1995?), Atlantic blamed Hatfield, refusing to release her admittedly darker 1996 album God's Foot (apparently Evan Dando's rehab soundtrack Car Button Cloth was a surer bet). Hatfield went on a hunger strike to get the God's Foot tapes back, but Atlantic's still got them. After this career chaos, Juliana worked through some understandable insecurity, unable to reconcile the roots that led the Blake Babies to cover the Stooges' \"Loose\" with the doeeyed daydreaming that had so many hearts beating in the early 90s.In Exile Deo at last resolves her conflicts of interest, and definitely stakes a claim as Hatfield's finest work in a decade. She's still baiting us with winsome pop sunshine \"Tourist\" and, of course, \"Sunshine\" aim for radioruled hearts but the ballads she seemed to cast off so casually on previous records hit with a shivering directness here. The finest, \"Forever\" and \"My Enemy\", also boast some of Hatfield's boldest and yet most traditional songwriting, built on blues scales under a wider shade of pale cast by dustbowl violins and pipe organ. The real surprises here are the hardest tracks, free of the phony toughness beleaguering her distortionsoaked 90s duds. \"Get in Line\" is a jawdropping opener; not in the sense that it's aggressive or unhinged, but in its bounding rock 'n' roll simplicity. This is the drownedinmelody rock Hatfield made her name on, played without a shred of cancerous cynicism. It's a spark unheard since her debut possibly since the Blake Babies' wrangling \"Take Your Head Off My Shoulder\" and it continues unabated in the Rolling Stones rehab romp \"Because We Love You\". As a caveat, this newfound ebullience can go awry, as in the bawdy \"Dirty Dog\", which, while blushingly cute at first, indulges in its harmonica and high spirits a bit too long. I've had to avoid spirits this 4th of July, as I'm heading back to Manhattan before the sun goes down, but booze or no, with fire engines wailing, children throwing candy from floats, high school bands playing pop/punk from trailer beds in perfect weather, nostalgia is inescapable. Listening to In Exile Deo on a postparade drive down Washington Street, to Far Far's Danish Ice Cream shop then out across Powder Point Bridge, I remember the beatup blue Volvo Hatfield used to drive, a beacon in her parents' driveway, proof positive that somebody from this place \"made it,\" and I dote on the tenuous little connections that once meant so much to me. Like the time my father bought me a used drumkit for my 15th birthday: A year later, Dean Fisher, thenbassist for the Juliana Hatfield Three, came by to visit my thenguitarist's sister, and noted, \"Hey, those are my old CB700s!\" If we can count on the laziness of college students (and I think we can), those cans are still sitting in the basement of 166 Church St. in Saratoga Springs, NY, where I once lived, in Evan Dando's old dorm room. P.T. Anderson, throw me a parade. "}