{"label":" Novamute","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3731/homepage_large.c35a8d4f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Richie Hawtin","title":"DE9: Closer to the Edit","text":" It was meant to be a routine visit to Dr. Hawtin. I was expecting the usual treatment: he would slightly distend my ectopic eyeball to reveal the sinewy mess of the deformed optic nerve of my right eye; he would smear a clear salve of his own manufacture using a modified Qtip, and then gently push my eyeball back into my head in an unconventional position. But not this visit. Though Dr. Hawtin was the same calmly welcoming bald gentleman I've learnt to trust and admire, I walked into his familiarly anechoic and odorless office, expecting to be greeted with a smile of, \"Have I got something innovative and unregulated for you!\" But since he's about the only person that isn't skeeved out by my disfigurement (or question how I'm even able to feed myself in anything resembling an acceptable manner), I have learnt to resign myself to his unique skills. Knowing that my ocular defect has impeded my ability to communicate as most other people do, Dr. Hawtin and I have resorted to formulating a touchlanguage. He asks how I'm doing and I reply by touching the tip of his nose: \"Just great.\" But this time, I don't wait for him to follow up. I am concerned. Dr. Hawtin's office includes some equipment I've never seen before. There's a turntablecumcentrifuge linked to a translucent laptop computer. The computer's screen brightly displays the words, \"Final Scratch: initialization complete. Press F1 to commence procedure.\" I stroke the knuckles of Dr. Hawtin's right hand: \"What's going on?\" The doctor straightens his back with pride and then leads me to the Final Scratch equipment. \"In collaboration with other experimental physicians, I have collected an array of three hundred sonic tools and arranged them into one therapeutic sequence. The course of treatment I propose that you undergo will alleviate some of your difficulties. As we've discussed before, the optical nerve of your ectopic eye is fused with the optic nerve of your other, correctly situated eye. We've discussed that removal of your ectopic eye is not feasible without severing the conjoined optic nerve and thus inducing permanent blindness. \"What I and other researchers have discovered is that application of certain rhythmic tones and frequencies can cause nerve tissue to fold in on itself and woundlessly seal itself off from the greater central system. My recommendation is that you agree to have the nerve of your ectopic eye treated by this DE9 process. Understand that you will lose sight in that eye, but given its location, and the fact that you've never received anything but utterly confusing signals from it, I predict a substantial improvement in your quality of life. This work continues and improves upon my previous Decks, EFX and 909 minimal tone surgery, but I've greatly reduced the duration of each sample and the therapeutic payload. The results are dramatic and with negligible sideeffects.\" Touching Dr. Hawtin's forehead, I asked him what the treatment involved. \"The Final Scratch equipment is essentially an immensely sensitive triggering unit which allows the operator to cue up any one of the stored therapeutic DE9 sound samples. Some of these samples I have created myself, but the majority of them were produced by my esteemed colleagues in the minimal community Professor Carl Craig, Dr. Janek Sienkiewicz, Dr. Stewart Walker, Dr. Dale Lawrence, Dr. Peter Speiss, to mention but a few. I have trimmed their tones to either a single tone or loop and collated them into the Hawtin DE9 minimal tone surgical rhythm database. \"What I will do is remove the eyeball just as I always do during these examinations and attach a microspeaker to the exposed nerve. I will then use the DE9 turntable device to cue up and release from the database each minimal rhythm according to that pattern's therapeutic ability. After the fifty minutes of the DE9 process, the abnormal bifurcation of your optic nerve will be so withered by the relentless synthetic percussion as to be unable to conduct signals to your brain. We'll then just snip the eyeball out and you'll be able to swallow, talk and eat solid foods. In addition to removing of the physical abnormality, DE9 tones have a second set of harmonics. These frequencies will deliver signals to your brain to reroute visual data from the now useless section of your optic nerve. Your brain will adapt to its compromised situation and your normal eye will be instructed to take on 100% of visual duties.\" Dr. Hawtin perceived that I was experiencing a mixture of trepidation and excitement, and added with characteristic candor, \"Unrelenting maintenance of intensity is key to success of the operation. Open your mouth! Let's yank that peering sucker out of its lair!\" "}