{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3734/homepage_large.2e9f6b98.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Hayden","title":"Live at Convocation Hall","text":" Celebrate freedom, freedomstyle! Choose your favorite attempt to begin this review! 1. If you had an iffy voice, wrote really simple songs, and were fresh from a stunning fullband effort, would you hurl a 'strippeddown,' 22track concert recording at the world? Would it seem logical that folks would clamor for a stunning showcase of performance and sound, with Hayden reducing his favorites to an \"unplugged\" acoustic guitar or solo piano format? Well, it's the equivalent of Achilles showing off his new stirrup pants, as... 2. *Yawn*. O Canada, where is thy sting? Bowling for Columbine might have made a skewed argument for your levelheadedness, and Destroyer and Hot Hot Heat may be recent proof that you have a musical pulse, but damn if Hayden's liveinToronto doubledisc doesn't further the U.S. view of our northern neighbor as an MOR wasteland. This concert teems with kindaokayness, betraying the extraspecial cloudfolk of Hayden's last studio release. The merely passable preSkyscraper National Park lyrics, when combined with this show's cute live banter and cute photos, result in an album too precious to soundtrack a rightfully complicated relationship, but too humble and likable to accuse Hayden of being a selfserving document of snowed fans' worship...\" 3. Dear Diary: Lookin' good! Hey, I have questions tonight. Does a world charged with the confident riffage of Liars or the hurryupanddome bounce of \"electroclash\" among a zillion other pyrotechnic wouldbe revolutions still have a place for authors of imploding ballads about holding hands? What did Schoenberg mean when he said, \"If it is art it is not for all, and if it is for all it is not art?\" What did Sibelius mean when he said, \"No one ever put up a statue of a critic...\" 4. Hayden's been successfully scraping off his silly baby fat over the course of his recording career. The early records were immaturely earnest and \"sensitive,\" with bizarre outbursts of deathhowls: the instant we heard his crazy, screaming song, sung from the vantage point of murderous South Carolina mom Susan Smith's drowning children, some friends and I spent an evening blasting it from a convertible pickup, then sat down to record a spoof. The Closer I Get boasted a pretty good hittosap ratio, and then, like whoa, Hayden's Skyscraper National Park was revelatory an ideal album for anyone not yet bored with the sound of an act tiptoeing around altcountry's pit of despair. No kidding, Skyscraper came in at sweet 16 on my personal Top 20 of 2002, an important list which hangs framed in the room where my stuffed animals and I convene as the United Nations of Rock, trying to embargo that wily Cobra Commander into disarmament... 5. \"Until Skyscraper National Park, Hayden's work had been comparable to a blah veggie: not unhealthy, kind of beautiful in its lumpiness, hard to love, and hard to hate. The monotonous stretches of this concert package make it difficult to feel anything about him at all. The proceedings lack a transporting element; if this disc is playing while one is stuck in traffic, one will feel very much stuck in traffic... 6. A guy installed a heater at my house today. His skin was pachydermwrinkled. He told me stories about gas explosions. His assistant told me about working in paper mills, about people getting dismembered by steam leaks, about a lancer whose back melted because he worked without an asbestos suit. An acquaintance that works as a corrections officer told me about a riot he had to help suppress. Reviewing CDs is wimp's work, yo, especially if I'm supposed to be summarizing a puss like Hayden... 7. Stay on the scene like a stats machine: Number of songs from Skyscraper National Park: 8 Because these are the best songs Hayden has written, these are the best songs here, though they're robbed of their warm drums and rich tones. \"Bass Song\" is a tense charmer, a welltold tale of being broken in on and beaten. Number of songs from The Closer I Get: 3  Watch out for that dreadful part about teaching the girl to play guitar (\"Between Us to Hold\"): it's more about the speaker than the girl. Opening line: \"I taught you to play guitar last night.\" Last lines: \"I held your arm as you hit the strings/ I pressed your fingers down and started to siiihiiiing/ Siiihiiihiiing.\" The listener can picture Hayden's arms around this girl like those of a randy tennis instructor from an 80s movie. The crowd eats this one up. Number of songs from Moving Careful: 2 Decent genre soundalikes. Number of songs from Everything I Long For: 4 \"Bad as They Seem\" is the one about the sixteenyearold, y'all. Let whosoever is without sin, etc. Number of Neil Young covers: 1 The high voice that frequents Skyscraper tipped me off that Neil's dogs had treed Hayden, but good. Julie Doiron and Howie Beck join the junior shakey on a frumpy \"Tell Me Why\". Number of songs featured in films: 1Trees Lounge was a nice fit for Hayden's penchant for blending sloth and heart. I mean, the guy sings like Cat Stevens abusing muscle relaxants. Number of new songs: 3 \"Holster\" (about a duel) and \"Woody\" (even though it's about Hayden's cat) rule the show, along with the dark stuff from Skyscraper. These unstoppably catchy tunes will yank your beltloop, promise. 8. Hayden has his uses. Everybody gets crippled by nostalgia or romantic curiosity, I reckon. Everybody needs some music for those moments when they can't muster the energy to poke a straw into a CapriSun. And most males have been guilty of mythologizing their obsessive behavior in their apartment building, as Hayden does. He's just so bald about it, so selfexplanatory. He's unpretentious to the point of being laundromatcommon. And if, in that laundromat, the Snuggle fabric softener mascot was a stalker and a dour troubadour... "}