{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3745/homepage_large.222ba1bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kyle Reiter","artist":"Lee Hazlewood","title":"Total Lee!: The Songs of Lee Hazlewood","text":" Buried deep within the liner notes of Total Lee!: The Songs of Lee Hazlewood, is a reasonable plea: \"Demand official induction to the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame for Lee Hazlewood.\" This is followed by the address of said institution. While the obscurity of Lee's work may leave some scratching their heads, Total Lee! brings the unconverted one step closer to understanding exactly why his acceptance to the rock'n'roll pantheon is indeed logical.For almost four decades, Hazlewood has epitomized the renaissance man: songwriter, producer, singer, actor, label owner, fauxSwede, artist developer (most notably Duane Eddy, Nancy Sinatra, and Gram Parsons), cowboy in exile and, with the exception of the rabid cult which usually accompanies such uncompromising artists, he's done all of this without ever gaining the recognition he undeniably deserves. Recently, both hipsters and oldschool obscurists alike have sung the praises of Hazlewood to Skip Spencelike proportions. Naturally, Total Lee! is ripe for the pickin'.Steve Shelley's Smells Like label began reissuing Hazlewood's albums in 1999, and is now accompanied by Astralwerks' compilation in tribute to the man's career. While the material being paid tribute to is both thoughtprovoking and playful, Total Lee! unfortunately works better in theory than in practice (like most tributes), though it does thrive a bit more than your typical musical homage.The strongest contribution to Total Lee! comes from a group called Madrugada, whose cover of \"Come on Home to Me\" completely alters the song's attributes in the hands of these Norwegian rockers, this somber ballad becomes a charging doomsday crooner. By the same token, King of Convenience's Erlend Øye successfully delivers \"No Train to Stockholm\" by reversing its 70s softrock harmony to a solo acoustic whimper.The Webb Brothers effortlessly update \"Some Velvet Morning\"; they could easily pass their version off as an original were they capable of penning anything quite so poetic themselves. UK session man and recent Pulp contributor Richard Hawley teams up with Jarvis Cocker for \"The Cheat\". In fact, over the course of the album's 60 minutes, more indispensable namedrops show up for a turn at Hazlewood's catalogue: Evan Dando, Calvin Johnson, Calexico, the list goes on. It's not all worthwhile, but this man's renaissance is long overdue, and most of these artists do his songs justice nicely.In the liner notes of this release, Lee Hazlewood himself gives a trackbytrack opinion of each song as he hears it for the first time. His opinion ranges from enthused (Stephen Jones & Luke Scott, Kathryn Williams) to the cordial (Calvin Johnson, The Amazing Pilots). But it's interesting to get an idea of what the artist thinks of his own tribute (much like The Kinks homage, This Is Where I Belong) although much of the dialogue is directed at the songs themselves.What makes the album far from essential, yet still enjoyable, is the rediscovery of songs that are so heartbreakingly genius, yet so neglected. Rather than just demonstrate their love for a popular artist (see 2000's Badlands: A Tribute to Bruce Springsteen's Nebraska), the musicians on Total Lee! bring a contemporary element to an abandoned body of work that reminds us just how essential it really is. "}