{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3753/homepage_large.fa76a1a0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Hecker","title":"Sun Pandämonium","text":" Mama called today. Or yesterday maybe, I don't know. I got a telephone call from the house: \"Andy, your father just got back from the dentist's office, and he had some very important news that I thought you'd like to hear.\" \"Uh, okay, does he have any lifethreatening cavities?\" \"No, but the dentist warned him to stay away from whitening toothpastes and anything with abrasives in it. She said the worst one was that natural toothpaste you use with baking soda in it. It can scratch the enamel off your teeth.\" \"Not to worry Mom, I don't use that sort of stuff anymore. I use Hecker.\" \"Hecker?\" \"Yeah, Florian Hecker. It's by Mego.\" \"It's got fluoride in it? That's good, I suppose.\" \"No, Ma, Florian. It's not that mellow Peelu ambiance like Tim Hecker nor that cool saccharine sparkle of Hecker and Miss Kittin. It's not even the Aquafresh of Maximillian Hecker. This stuff is from Austria, and I'm not sure if it's even legal here yet.\" \"Are you on dope?\" \"Mom, this is the most abrasive shit I've ever come across! This grounds out all the enamel and bone in my fucking mouth, and it's just nerveendings dangling in there now! I'll never have to brush again!\" She didn't want to listen to what I had to say, and you might not want to listen either, but much like last year's lauded (and brutally unlistenable) To Live and Shave in L.A. disc, this will be the most highly nuanced, insanely articulated carving and polishing of digital noise to come along this year, and Hecker knows it. \"But wait, what about Kevin Drumm?\" you may ask, who also placed high in these pages with a similarly nasty disc of white noise and black death on the same label. True, it was rough, but at least its heart contained the very core of rock, as its ending revealed. You could at the very least think about distorted guitars and be close to understanding. Sun Pandämonium is something else entirely, its computer codes and structures inscrutable through and through. In what must surely be the aural equivalent of tapping the gas pedal as your buddy reaches for the door handle on the car, Hecker begins the disc with four minutes of toggling the onoff switch on the hyperspeed for \"bsf°tyk 5\" and you're uncertain whether you really want to ride or not. When \"Stocha Acid Zhook\" starts up, though, it is pure alien abduction, and the probes are readied for some prolonged root canal work. Holes are painfully drilled straight through to the cortex stem, and at the surface it seems to be done entirely at random, but when every single speck of toothy shrapnel and grinding spin of the diamond bit is placed within the extraterrestrial drone underlying it all, there is a far greater intelligence that can be discerned, and it's frightening. Gurgle and spit all you want, you'll be unable to evade this malevolence; the piercing frequencies pin you down, no matter how you writhe or turn. And just when you think the twenty grueling minutes of skulltrepanning might be over as the piece dies out, Hecker even gives you a fake ending and returns with the drill for a few minutes more! The nerves! Once through the album's centerpiece, the remainder of the album spurts by quickly in minute bursts. The smaller fragments squiggle around a little bit more, but the refinement of each sound particle, be it a glitch or the digital dust shaved off of that isolated glitch, has so much meticulous gradation as to render every grain audible and infinite. \"Quantum Spark Reality\" melds some ungrounded pops and fluctuating hums into these exquisite cosmic murmurs, cutting it all with flummoxing squeals so that the experience remains destabilized and damaged. \"Vi Retrospect\" is lightning quick, with edgy quivers and quakes, as physically visceral as any vinyl scratching. As the nerves tense to the point of synapse snapping, unable to process it all, Hecker fizzes the track out with some outlandish twittering and dribbling. It's a perfect ending, as the listening experience will do nothing if not reduce you to puddling drool at the end. Loud and overwhelming at any volume setting, these are the sounds and frequencies not only of diamonds being sharpened, but then being used to etch directly on the lenses of your optical readers. Call him a sick fuck, a genius, or even Mister Antichrist, but this will cleanse the audio palate as it blows your teeth out. Trust me. "}