{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3754/homepage_large.b066d552.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Hecker","title":"PV Trecks","text":" I had some fillings put in recently, first time in many years. One of the cavities was in a semiimpacted, difficulttoreach wisdom tooth, so my dentist had to use the \"slow drill.\" Since the RPMs are lower on this particular drill, a significantly larger amount of force has to be applied to carve out a hole for the filling. (I asked him about the slow drill later; he told me that in the early days of mechanical dentistry, when these drills were the only game in town, the job required a large amount of upper body strength.) When my dentist got serious and leaned into his instrument, the sensation was completely overwhelming. I was numb from Novocain, but my skull felt like a Ford Festiva doing 50 on rims down a dirt road. The physical trauma of the moment was so shocking I didn't have time to formulate a reaction beyond \"Wow!\" And the sound! The sound was like... well, it was a lot like \"Stoocha Acid Zlook\", the 21minute centerpiece from Hecker's Sun Pand채monium. I know, Andy Beta already mentioned dentistry in his Pitchfork review of that album, but nothing else in common experience comes close to describing the sensation of that particular record. You gotta talk about the dentist when you talk Hecker; it's the perfect reference point. Hecker's goals for his music lie in the physical. He's trying to \"move\" the listener, alright move him out of his seat and into some sort of duckandcover position.PV Trecks is less inyourface than Sun Pand채monium, but it's no less abstract, and it affirms that Hecker is an odd throwback to a different era. It's all done digitally (the lone credit here is \"computer\") and I'm certain his setup is completely cuttingedge, but his music seems a tribute to the sounds coming out of the ColumbiaPrinceton Electronic Music Center in the early 60s. The goal then was a new kind of composition using a new kind of sound, and the rules were still being formulated. Much of this music existed in part to present previously unknown timbres as ends in themselves. This sort of \"pure\" electronic music is no more accessible now than it was back in the day. And so it is with Hecker. He uses familiar tones such as sine waves, pink noise and primitive blips, and then bends, twists and overlaps them to achieve visceral effects. His music is strangely devoid of any sort of \"organic\" quality; all sounds are birthed from a calculating motherboard inside the guts of a machine, and when they emerge from speakers, we know immediately that they've lived all previous days as 1s and 0s. The sounds are not referential, that seems very important.PV Trecks consists of 33 tracks totaling 34 minutes. A number of cuts are less than 30 seconds (you would be well advised not to buy it by the track), just a few squiggles, some chirps that turn quickly into grinding noises, and then it's over. Unlike Sun Pand채monium, there's nothing epic or particularly intimidating here; some of the sketches have a certain playfulness, while others contain chunks of silence. A few pieces go for ballsout noise (\"CizGlemp 2\" is particularly intense), but nothing is sustained. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Hecker's music, when stripped of Sun Pand채monium's thrilling sense of sonic assault, gets boring after a while. There seems to be a complex underlying structure here, which might be fun to decode for the same reason people get wrapped up in jigsaw puzzles. But as music, PV Trecks never manages to cross over from the realm of pure idea. "}