{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13454/homepage_large.0475ea96.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tim Hecker","title":"Radio Amor","text":" Minimalism, as it is usually described, is precise music. Whether it's Steve Reich's phase patterns, Terry Riley's \"C\" pulse or La Monte Young's extended tones, classical minimalism is laid out as carefully as a math equation. Each note has its place; harmonic collisions are not left to chance. The sound is ordered. Minimalism is music for neat freaks. Tim Hecker's second proper fulllength under his own name, following the underrated Haunt Me, Haunt Me, Do It Again (the My Love Is Rotten to the Core EP was an interesting diversion but not much more), approaches minimalism from a messier angle. Radio Amor's identifying motif is a repeated piano cluster. It is obviously minimalist in some respects, involving the repetition of a limited tone set, but something else is happening. Hecker's piano cluster sounds accidental and broken, the notes tumbling down haphazardly into a clump on the floor. Though each sound was likely laid out carefully in a window on Hecker's computer, you'd never know it. This sound idea is closer in spirit to the melody of wind chimes than something one hunches over a piano to work out, but it's no less striking for its seeming randomness. \"Song of the Highwire Shrimper\" introduces this fantastic sound. After some hissing and shortwave radio static, complete with unidentifiable voices, the keyboard bit comes in. I can't tell if it's a sample or just my own mind connecting two nautically themed records (Radio Amor was inspired in part by Hecker's observations in a Honduran fishing village), but something about the quality of the piano in \"Song of the Highwire Shrimper\" reminds me of Herbie Hancock's \"Maiden Voyage\". Where Hancock tapped into the fixed rhythm of the tide, Hecker zooms into the chaos present inside the breaking crest of a single wave. Listen closely and you can hear the endlessly variable gurgling of the ocean. Like Haunt Me, Haunt Me, Do It Again, Radio Amor flows one track into the next, and it really works best as one long piece. The choppy keyboard pattern drifts back into view several times. On \"Spectral\" it hovers around the corners of the frame, visible only when one turns attention away from the gradually shifting drones that make up the bulk of the track. Here, Hecker's technique reminds me a bit of Vert's sonic sleightofhand on The Köln Konzert, where he plucked tiny melodic phrases from Keith Jarrett's similarly named solo piano album and wrapped them in layers of prickly noise. \"I'm Transmitting Tonight\" is also based around the stuttering melodic figure, but the noise is shot through the tones, so the piano phrase becomes some poorly tuned staticridden ghost of itself. The rest of Radio Amor floats by like an uneasy shipboard dream. Radio transmissions, which often serve as a seafarer's only human contact, come and go. Harmonicrich drones morph into static and then return. White noise simulates the hiss of the ocean. Occasionally, as on \"Azure Azure\", Hecker incorporates guitar feedback and achieves something close to the raw grandeur that once made hometown pals Godspeed You Black Emperor! so great. By the time he gets to the closing \"Trade Winds, White Heat\" the music has calmed, the keyboard progression is steady and clear, and the airwave chatter is finally silenced. Radio Amor is a brilliant soundtrack for daydreaming, and Tim Hecker's effective variations on a few central ideas once again show a gifted composer at work. "}