{"label":" Peacefrog","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3792/homepage_large.87884861.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Matthew Herbert","title":"Secondhand Sounds","text":" How great is it to get into an artist at the exact moment when he's at the top of his game? Mathew Herbert is pretty much unstoppable right now, a oneman juggernaut assaulting the world of electronic music on several fronts: highprofile experimental pop under his own name, underground releases as Doctor Rockit, Radioboy and Wishmountin (some of which are available free) and collaborations too numerous to mention all packaged with biting antiglobalism dogma which you can pay attention to or ignore without affecting your appreciation of the music in the slightest. His beat programming is always on time, he's writing vocal melodies to rival prime Stereolab, and he's a sampling theorist on par with Matmos or DJ Shadow. This guy is firing on all cylinders. As one would expect of a busybody electronic producer such as Herbert, he does a lot of remixing, and the twodisc Secondhand Sounds collects 21 of his postproduction tweaks created over the past six years. It's definitely one of the best remix albums ever, but given how many shitty ones are clogging the used bins, that statement doesn't tell you much about the record's quality. What I like so much about Secondhand Sounds is Herbert's imperialistic way with the source material. As he makes clear in his manifesto, only sounds from the original work are included, but he completely twists them to his own ends, giving his remixes the most distinctive sonic signature this side of Markus Popp. The result is a collection that feels cohesive and works as an album. The source material may not be his, but the thing is pure Herbert from the first vocal sample forward. Part of what makes Herbert's production so distinctive is his quirky sense of rhythm. House beats are his stock in trade, but each track is given a slight variation of Herbert's trademark shuffle, where eversoslightly awkward accents are placed around the standard bass drum/highhat pattern. It helps, too, that he's such a firm believer in sound transformation; the familiar cymbal hisses have a timbre that's just a bit off, and the drumbeats have a glitchy twist that always sounds fresh. The structure of the song can remain intact, or not, depending on the effect that Herbert is going for. But there's no doubt when listening to each track that it's the product of meticulous design. Many of the original tracks are obscure, at least to me, but with the presence of Herbert always foregrounded, that's neither here nor there. Nils Peter Moivaer's \"Merciful\" is a feast of melancholia; the opening chords and vocals are at first pinched, as if sourced from an old 78, and then piano chords and a spare beat leave plenty of room for the chanteusestyle lead to blossom. The ethereal Two Banks of Four track \"Street Lullaby\" is another piano ballad, livened up with blocky percussion and underpinnings of distortion. Terra Deva's \"Fresh Start\" takes longer to develop, with lonely organ and vocals dominating the first minute and half, until a bubbly bassline and jerky beats bring it to life. Herbert's funky and propulsive remix of Serge Gainsbourg's \"Bonnie and Clyde\" shows how brilliantly he makes good source material seem even cooler, transforming others' work merely by accent into brand new songs. Six of the tracks are remixes of Herbert's own material, including the Bodily Functions tracks \"Suddenly,\" which is given an aggressively rhythmic sliceanddice dub treatment, and \"The Last Beat,\" which removes most of the vocals and inserts sharp percussion figures. It's a testament to Herbert's approach that these two sound like they could be original tracks in their own right. And that's pretty much the story all down the line. Take a guy with serious skill who actually gives a shit about remixing and you get Secondhand Sounds, one of the finest records of its kind. "}