{"label":" Accidental","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3796/homepage_large.a296fd24.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Matthew Herbert","title":"Plat du Jour","text":" In 2001, Matthew Herbert released The Mechanics of Deconstruction under his Radio Boy moniker. Each of the album's tracks was created using a single commercial product that Herbert found objectionable. Selections included \"Nike\" and \"Television\" and \"Gap\", along with foodthemed offerings like \"CocaCola\" and \"McDonalds\". The Mechanics of Deconstruction was a curious artifact, moving Herbert's hypercritical pop art into a more overt realm, and, best of all, it was a free download. You could (and still can) pluck the tracks off the web and then listen while reading along with one of Herbert's anticorporate rants. It wasn't a great record by any stretch but it was certainly novel, and enjoyable to a large extent because of Herbert's genius with sampling and arrangement. The fire inside that motivated Herbert to create \"Starbucks Is Coming\" from Mechanics a track made by manipulating, recording, and processing one caramel latte and one Frappucino still burns. Plat du Jour shares a lot with the earlier Radio Boy record, only this times the methods and arrangements are far more sophisticated and the critical guns are trained solely on the globalized corporate food industry including, again, Starbucks. Per the record's website, \"An Empire of Coffee\" contains a sample of \"60 Vietnamese robusta beans being dropped in to an empty container of monsantomade roundup weedkiller.\" The figure is chosen because 60 beans is the approximate number used to create a shot of Starbucks espresso. With Herbert, I've always been happy to consider the political content of the records to be a clever bonus, while the music as a purely sonic experience is allowed to stand on its own. I listened to Plat du Jour five or six times without paying attention to the song titles and not having read the online methodological descriptions, and this one didn't hold up quite so well. Opener \"The Truncated Life of a Modern Industrialised Chicken\" has impressively dense production, juggling macro and micro samples (field recordings of massive coops of terrified chickens are heard alongside eggs bumping into Pyrex bowls to create belllike tones). But the musical elements the way with chords and melody that set the highly trained Herbert apart fail to add anything substantial, and we're left with an OK midtempo electronica tune. \"These Branded Waters\" is similarly forgettable, with a music box arrangement of manipulated samples of Dasani water bottles that's brings to mind a middling electrotwee act. The songs that work best are faster and let Herbert indulge his skill for propulsive rhythm. The aforementioned \"An Empire of Coffee\" has some heavily caffeinated peaks where all the man's weird noises coalesce beautifully into a cartoon bump machine. The music on \"Hidden Sugars\" goes well with its title and theme, as it sounds like something Tim Burton might've incorporated into his film of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, highly mechanized but playful and candystriped, with vague hints of menace lurking in there somewhere. \"White Bread, Brown Bread\" is as funky as a package of onion kulcha a week past its sellby date. The album's lone vocal track, \"Celebrity\", on the other hand, is a smug indictment of celebrity food endorsements, with an embarrassing chorus that ends with \"Go Beyonce! Go Beyonce!\" Maybe here the album is only half the art. Maybe one needs to go to the accompanying website, read how the pieces were made, and contemplate the state of the modern agriculture industry to really experience what Herbert is getting at. If that's true, who exactly is the audience for this sort of thing? What advantage do these songs have over an essay? I've read Fast Food Nation, enjoyed it, and I haven't had a hamburger, McDonald's or otherwise, in three or four years (though the Schlosser book had nothing to do with me quitting beef). But nothing in the music feels connected to any feelings I have toward the food industry. Surely, in the end we have to judge the music as music, and Herbert has done a lot better. "}