{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3813/homepage_large.2870c989.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"The Hidden Cameras","title":"The Smell of Our Own","text":" Whenever it was that daylight savings hit, I was talking to a few friends in a local redcarpeted gay bar while an unmotivated gogo dancer swiveled his hips to the jukebox beside him. It didn't matter if it was The Price Is Right theme or something by Erasure, he pointed at himself, the jukebox, anyone who looked at him, and then the sky. It was weird, and not nearly as spiritual as I'm making it sound. As gogo boy continued, someone next to me started talking about being really into golden showers, discussing the ways in which you could go about asking people to piss on you. At the time I never thought I'd be able to use this story of consensual erotic pissing as a leadin to a record review, but on the warmest day of spring thus far, The Hidden Cameras made their way into my compact disc player, and just like that, Grecian goldsmiths of hammered gold and goldenameling were everywhere apeeing. Honestly, this pack of queer Canadians make pissing on your loved one a most holy and glorious of act deserving of its own special Hallmark greeting. Named in part after Michel Foucault's take on the panopticon, The Hidden Cameras began as the solo project of singer/songwriter Joel Gibb in 2001. Armed with a degree in semiotics and a parade of instruments including drum machine, acoustic and electric guitars, glockenspiel, bass, guiro, tambourine, church bells, jaw harp, and organ, he recorded a bunch of songs on his fourtrack and made them available locally on CDRs (a few of these compositions were released in February 2003 as Ecce Homo on Gibb's Evil Evil label). Now, a couple years later, the band members have multiplied like the world's population; Gibb has anywhere from three to eleven apostles assisting him in spreading the gospel from town to town. As a brief aside, I should recommend that you check them live, should they arrive locally: they take the stage along with masked gogo dancers, films, projected lyrics, cheerleaders, a choir, and all sorts if ribaldry. Folks stomp, slap, spin in a rockoperacumpassionplay. On The Smell of Our Own, the first LP for the fullmembered group, The Hidden Cameras wrap deviancy in Polyphonic Spree packaging and AMpop sheen. Similar in sound to The Magnetic Fields, The Tall Dwarfs, and the more orchestral moments of Belle & Sebastian, the album begins with strings, organ, and a flourish of harps and voices. The first track \"Golden Streams\" is road music, some uplifting John Cale sunburst; it's also the first of two songs dedicated to piss: \"The golden stone builds the golden road to heaven (held up high by golden streams of ice).\" The next song, \"Ban Marriage\", approaches matrimony like any good anarchist. It's a jubilant manifesto regarding fucking around while also being in love: \"I was late getting to church on the morning of my ceremony/ Stayed up too late the night before from fingering foreign dirty holes in the dark.\" Gibbs goes on to deconstruct \"coupledom,\" and it's here that he makes a point shared by folks who see marriage as a bourgeois ideal regardless of sexual orientation; more importantly for the music fan in you, the tune's suspiciously similar to Belle & Sebastian's \"The State That I Am In\", a take on tying the knot amid a brother's coming out of the closet. On The Smell of Our Own, there are a number of moments for the highlight reel, and only a few plodding stinkers. \"A Miracle\" and \"Shame\" are pretty but tepid, and \"Day Is Dawning\" doesn't do much besides repeat the song's title. On the more positive side, \"Smells Like Happiness\" has a highpitched \"The Lion Sleeps Tonight\" melody while the crew sings like a pack of Genets buggering away: \"Happiness has a smell I inhale like a drug... it is the smell of old cum on the rug.\" Equally a triumph of catchy transgression, \"Boys of Melody\" sounds like \"I Started a Joke\"era Bee Gees, but here the brothers Gibb are accompanied by strings, a choir of angels, and stained bedsheets. Ahh, Spring! And springs! Though Gibb is completely obvious about the pleasure of fucking other guys, the sex goes beyond manonman action to that of any people enjoying fucking other people, just always ecstatically. The album's closer, \"The Man That I Am with My Man\", is initially about a couple's sexual ministrations, but by song's end, it's more about a communal eroticism: the multitudes act as brothers in bed, pronouns slip, and I imagine the whole world fucking. With an open approach to queer sexuality and radical politics, The Smell of Our Own offers an alternative to the saccharine teen spirit we're so used to sniffing. It's a sensual celebration of stinky, reallife sexuality. "}