{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3838/homepage_large.dc526ed0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Beth Hirsch","title":"Titles and Idols","text":" For a moment back in 1998, Beth Hirsch could have had it all. Her astonishing and immediately moving vocals made human the endearingly plodding anachronisms of Air's Moon Safari. Had she released an album of songs as lush as \"All I Need\" and \"You Make It Easy,\" Hirsch would have been bigger than Dido. Three years later, Titles and Idols trots along and I'm a little upset. Not as upset as I was when I heard Hirsch's rummagesale cashin of a debut, 2000's Early Days, but upset nonetheless. Hirsch and her collaborators have clearly worked hard on Titles and Idols. Not a note out of place, not a beat out of sync, not a lament out of earnestness, this is an electronically upgraded, preciously beautiful coffeeshop poetess album. Its honesty and integrity are too longfaced for me. Paying close attention to the guileless Titles and Idols makes me fantasize about Hirsch performing the vocals to Air's blowjob panegyric \"Wonder Milky Bitch.\" Perhaps I'm asking her to be a little superfreaky and it's her right to say no. But fifty minutes of humorless observations about relationships out of whack and illstarr'd attempts at happiness get me hungry for some shameless grot. Diving straight into territory identical to Everything but the Girl's Temperamental, Hirsch swoons and graciously moans through the beatless mix of \"Let It Live.\" Thick synth pads and a wisp of a pedal steel guitar accentuate Hirsch's gorgeous voice. \"I Know Why\" is the first of four songs on this album featuring Black Dog (aka Ken Downie) as producer. And surprisingly, Downie doesn't smother Hirsch in techno, instead sending rhythms skittering across Hirsch's facsimile Cloudsperiod Joni Mitchellisms. Avoiding the thumping assault weapon production of Kosheen's \"Hide U,\" Downie finds a balance between his technology and Hirsch's voice. On the title track production, Custom Blue doesn't match Downie's delicacy. Nonetheless, the big drums and furrowing bass compliment Hirsch's defiant delivery. The partially spoken word \"Captain Daylight\" is as coffeeshop as Titles and Idols gets, with a distant squeeze box lending a sea shanty vibe to the already briny waltz. \"Nest Sensation\" is unmistakably a Black Dog Production it bounces like an early Warp bleep release but remains sympathetic to Hirsch's alternately delicate and feisty statements of identity. Still, I can't escape imagining that Hirsch is hinting at a desire to be Alanis Morissette here. Ken Downie keeps Hirsch within the bounds of decency by directing her back to the Joni Mitchell School of Skipping Annunciation for the happygolucky \"Until I Met You.\" Producer Jackson from Paris steps up for one cut, the ukuleleglitched story song \"Nigel and Fiona,\" but like Custom Blue and Black Dog, he doesn't allow the production to overwhelm the singer.Titles and Idols finishes with the album's most glaring error, Custom Blue's \"Radical mix\" of the opener, \"Let It Live.\" I think Custom Blue wanted to turn Hirsch into a diva ready to take on vocal duties for a moshpitready successor to Massive Attack's Mezzanine. Having signaled a blasttocome with distorted, broken guitar chords, the producer doesn't have the courage of his convictions to force the mix into an outandout rocker until halfway through. At that point, Hirsch can't compete and is left to ululate and to vocalize as the riffs swirl about her like a dervish bikergang. Though lyrically ponderous and humorless, Titles and Idols is far from being an unpleasant listen. I have no doubts about the effectiveness and the beauty of Hirsch's voice nor her producers' sensitivity to her material. But what gets to me is that Hirsch and her producers don't really let rip. With exception of the failed last track, Titles and Idols, is awfully polite. Breakbeaters Lamb walk in similar territory and avoid sounding prim. Of course, this record errs on the side of caution, and that should serve the album very well commercially. Still, from an artistic standpoint, I can't really consider it an object of veneration. "}