{"label":" Editions PAF","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3847/homepage_large.7b06a8ef.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Robyn Hitchcock","title":"Robyn Sings","text":" [Excerpts from transcript of Crisis Hotline call, 12:34am, 5/15/02] Operator 1: Sir, what do you mean you're breaking your dishes and beating your kids and you don't know why? Caller: I don't know what it means! Aren't you supposed to help me figure it out? Why the hell else do you exist? Operator 1: Sir, try to calm down. I can hear that you're frustrated. Caller: Of course I'm frustrated! Duh! You would be too! Operator 1: But sir, I didn't call the Crisis Hotline tonight. Let's not make this about me.[The caller's response here is unintelligible except for what sounds like the words \"shenanigan ass\" and \"Robyn Hitchcock.\"] Operator 1: Breathe, sir. Try to breathe. How about I count and you inhale and exhale along with my counting? Caller: I don't think you're taking this threat seriously enough. Have you considered what would happen if this double CD were left in a time capsule, and the rest of the world was destroyed in a war over oil so people could drive to their tanning beds and botox injections, and this thing was all that was left of Bob Dylan's legacy after the destruction?[Operator 1 was silent here. She reported to her supervisor that she did not know what to say.] Caller: Hello, operator? Jesus! Think about it! Anyone who heard these sixteen covers and thought they had heard Dylan that would be like thinking you'd seen some painter's masterpiece because you saw a postcard of it! The craprecorded acoustic guitar on the first disc must be being strummed by a mannequin![At this point, Operator 1 believed that the Caller had begun talking to someone else in his proximity. On the tape, he evidently told someone to \"go away,\" because \"Daddy's putting up special shelves.\"] Operator 1: Sir, are you still there? Caller: Yeah. Kids these days, huh? Operator 1: They're something. Caller: They really are. So, are you getting it yet? Operator 1: What I'm hearing is that you think someone's going to try to trap Bob Dylan in a capsule. Caller: That's not what I said at all. Do you even listen to Bob Dylan? Operator 1: No, sir. Caller: Who do you listen to? Operator 1: Country. Kenny Chesney, Alan Jackson... Caller: Hell, you wouldn't know country if it served you under a heat lamp in an AllUCanEat buffet. Get me somebody else. I will burn this house down if you don't connect me with someone who knows who Bob Dylan and Robyn Hitchcock are![Operator 1 patched the Caller through to Operator 2, who claimed familiarity with whatever the Caller was talking about. The tape didn't pick up until midconversation.] Operator 2: I thought the liner notes were only mildly selfindulgent and even kind of charming. Especially when Hitchcock compared Dylan to Monty Python's reluctant messiah Brian, and when he wrote about how, the first time he heard \"Desolation Row,\" he thought Dylan was saying \"Destination Roll.\" Caller: Yeah, but the songorder listing on the first CD is screwed up! Just by the time \"It's All Over Now, Baby Blue\" came on, I wanted the coffeehouse proprietor to interrupt and say for him to give someone else a chance at open mic night. Operator 2: Sir, Hitchcock doesn't purport to be trying to 'interpret' Dylan's songs. I think it was a very cool gesture, to a mentor. Hitchcock is saying 'thank you' to Dylan, in a way. Caller: I don't know, man. His restagings are as hackneyed as Gus Van Sant's Psycho! He totally botches \"4th Time Around\"! I didn't pay for two damn blooper CDs! Operator 2: I find the fullband rendition of \"Visions of Johanna\" really powerful, the way they softproduced it for that retro feel. And the acoustic versions of the two more recent Dylan songs, the nihilist \"Not Dark Yet\" and the humanist \"Dignity,\" hold up beside obvious jukebox fare like \"Tangled Up in Blue.\" Caller: But that breathy vocal inflection for 'important' or 'intense' lines strikes me as so fake. He sounds like Willow marveling at Madmartigan! There's some murky quantity, some American idiom, missing. The same way Americans make goons of themselves doing Shakespeare, he makes a goon of himself doing Dylan. Hitchcock misses the spontaneity of Dylan's enunciation and forces a predictable pattern on the lyrical rhythm. His version of the whiteyblues swagger of \"LeopardSkin Pillbox Hat\" is straightup square! Operator 2: Sir, do you fancy yourself an amateur rock critic? Caller: What does that even mean? Is there any such a thing as a 'professional' rock critic, whom lawyers can summon to testify in cases? 'We need an official diagnosis of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, quick! Help, we don't know what to think about The Soft Bulletin!' Fuck! Operator 2: I was just saying that you might try listening to Hitchcock's earlier work solo, and his two bands. Caller: Yeah, there's good stuff, but he's secondtier next to Dylan, right? He's like Pepsi, or KMart.  Operator 2: Try to focus on something positive, sir. Caller: Okay, okay. Disc two is pretty good, the one where he reenacts the Royal Albert Hall/'Judas' concert. Some of that stuff's topnotch homage, actually. High energy. He cusses well on that raucous \"Ballad of a Thin Man.\" The band rips up \"I Don't Believe You\" and \"Just Like Tom Thumb's Blues.\" And Hitchcock works himself into an inspired, endearing, middleage rage on disc two. I love some of it, I think. Operator 2: That CD came out a long time ago as a promo called Beautiful Queen. Caller: What a stupid thing to know. What I was saying was, the best stuff on these discs only increases the sting of the lame stuff. And what EnglandcoversAmerica album do my kids have to look forward to in 2025, if there is a 2025? Liam Gallagher doing Beck?[Caller groans, bangs the phone against some surface, possibly a tile floor, says something unintelligible except for the words \"irony hostage,\" and then asks someone to \"go get Daddy's lucky pliers\" before disconnecting. No update is available at this time.] "}