{"label":" Mush","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/385/homepage_large.faa48c1f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Julianne Shepherd","artist":"Awol One / Daddy Kev","title":"Slanguage","text":" Don't expect a Souldoubt or Number 3 on the Phone redux. This thing puts freestyles (of sorts) atop free jazz (of sorts), the ambient, funky, brusheddrum goop of Daddy Kev with the slow rasp of Awol One, whose voice has the tone of a chainsmoker robbed of all gumption by constricted bloodflow and cakedover arteries. Slanguage, Awol and Daddy's third fulllength together, is a selfproclaimed experiment in free jazz, as viewed through hiphop's eyes. A sample on the record reminds us, \"The only thing about free music is that you have a greater success of not succeeding... but the fun is when you get the good moments.\" Driving this sentiment home are Awol's frontal lobe ramblings, which unfortunately act as an albumlong solo with a success rate of about 3070. Still, you have to hand it to these guys for breaking out and trying something different.On the other hand, there's Daddy Kev, arguably one of the Los Angeles underground's most visionary producers. He either hides the seams between his samples perfectly, or lets them show, their awkwardness draped naked and pure across the beats. Moreover, his style exemplifies the steady bleeding of hiphop culture into the more highbrow aspects of art. Daddy Kev stirs classical music into his highly thumping palette of beats, and he's adept at choosing the most beautiful and bombastic cuts.Slanguage is, of course, heavier on the free jazz than ever, but he doesn't confine his music to just slapping some skronk over a 4/4 bass track. This shit is deep. An opera diva's howl, the triumphant, pixilated theme from Defender, scratching by L.A. turntablist DStyles, and the tense crescendos of free drumming all converge in the same ten seconds of \"Grey Skys in PsychoDelic Rgb\". \"Reflections for Scratching Your Face Off\" is as traditional as Daddy gets, burying scraps of stringed instruments (an upright bass solo, an unidentifiable, abstract cello Bartok or Kurtag, maybe) under the jubilant slapping of toms gone crazy with the boombap.But, you know, there's still Awol's tragically tuneless whinesing pissing all over it.The reason the guys in cLOUDDEAD got away with their dreamy, streamofconsciousness shoegazer rap is because we were convinced they were huffing gas. Drug addiction is a good excuse for almost anything, when you get right down to it. When people ask, \"What were you thinking when you threw your baby in the dumpster?\" at cocktail parties, you can respond intimately, \"It was the cocaine,\" after which you and your companion will laugh gaily and heartily into your martinis. Awol should try harder to convince us he's on a freebasing binge, 'cause right now, much of his delivery and style comes off like apathy. \"Yeah, thanks. That was a poem called, 'Fuck That Shit',\" he says apprehensively, at the beginning of an antiTV, standup comedy style confessional over Daddy's bluesy piano sample.Even compared to Awol's lessthanbrilliant collab with Fat Jack, Propaganda, he sounds like he's phoning it in from a public landline on frigging Guam. Lazy mumbling is part of his style maybe an unavoidable facet of his gravelly voice but at points, you'd bet dollars he just doesn't give a shit. This is more frustrating in comparison to tracks where his solid style almost brings it, as on \"Audio Bibles Are Written on Stone Tablet Tables\" and \"Finger Paint with Bloodlike War Paint\", and on tracks where he really brings it, as on the barraising/hiphop headmocking \"Montgomery Burns' Quest for Power\". On the latter, he proves, if only for a brief moment, that he's capable of ripping out a rapidfire spray of sick arrhythms.It's obvious that, for the majority of Slanguage, Awol was gingerly exploring his own interpretation of hiphop/freejazz vocals. This time around, the experiment mostly crapped out, and Daddy Kev's fantastically freaky psychedelic genius freejazz funky classical hybrid is left to wipe up all the ass.  "}