{"label":" 1mg","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3856/homepage_large.2c68b132.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Hockey Night","title":"Rad Zapping","text":" I was going to open this review with a bit of commentary from Ron MacLean and Kelly Hrudey of the Canadian Broadcast Company's \"Hockey Night.\" Then I decided that Canada jokes are all but played out in this postSouth Park: The Movie universe, and besides, I couldn't for the life of me imagine why these two cats'd be discussing Rad Zapping instead of, say, actual hockey. But, minutae aside, it'd have worked beautifully to narrate the breakneck stylistic shifts of Rad Zapping. For you see, Hockey Night, the conceptual outfit of one Paul Sprangers, skips from genre to genre like little kids playing hopscotch. Opening track \"Voice in Control\" commences with a bland drum loop before Uturning its way into speed metal power riffage. \"Battlestar Galactica\" sets up shop with a videogame sample beat and slacker boy/girl pop vocals, but breaks into some nasal whiteboy rapping over the bridge. Track three continues the prephop over music that somehow sounds like Rush's \"Tom Sawyer\" mixed with \"Living on a Prayer,\" yet tracks four and five find the band spitting out cracked fourtrack guitar pop punctuated with Atari squiggles. And so on, and so on. By the end of the journey, Sprangers has tried his hand at virtually everything but Bavarian oompah and Mongolian throat singing. Actually, to scale back the hyperbole, the genre spectrum of Rad Zapping stays strictly within the boundaries of your typical indie renaissance man: synthpop, lofi guitar histrionics, and ironic flannelshirt hiphop. All styles we've heard before, but rarely juxtaposed so closely within a single album or, occasionally, a single minute of a single song. Nevertheless, all the band's personae are not created equal. The more straightforward indie numbers (see \"Axe of Deliverance,\" \"StyleRaiders,\" or \"Princess Starcrystal\") expertly filter the bangyohead hard rock through a lofi aesthetic and shy vocalization, a la early Built to Spill... if they were playing a live set in a 1985 arcade. Alongside strong, tonguenotincheek tracks like these, the many 80s nostalgia kicks and attempts at Becklike winkrhyming weigh down the album with excessive kitchiness. Other than some semiinteresting instrumentals falling somewhere between sound collage and DJ mix (most notably \"R.E.B.E.L System,\" with its eerie scratchedvinyl samples of children's songs and martini crooning), the nonrock pieces serve merely as novelty filler. Far be it from me, lowly nonmusically talented rock critic that I am, to advise Mr. Sprangers on his musical career, but the keyword here is 'focus.' The multiplepersonality disorder act might catch a jaded listener's ear the first time through, but runs the risk of being written off as a basement fourtrack goof for Paul and his drinkin' buddies. To maximize your potential, young sir, go with the bleepbloopenhanced indie stuff on future Hockey Night releases, and annex the goofy stuff off to some appropriately disposable side project. Actually, while you're at it, ditch the name Hockey Night altogether I hear CBC has some downright feisty Canuck lawyers. Thank me later, chief. "}