{"label":" Mass Men","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/386/homepage_large.d237eedd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Julianne Shepherd","artist":"Awol One & Fat Jack","title":"Propaganda","text":" Underground hiphop is quickly becoming clogged with depressives. From Atmosphere to Sole and even Eminem in his totalitarian, sensitive dickhead guise rappers of late seem desperate to let the world know that, \"Hey, I'm a fuckedup piece of shit, too!\" And the extent of selfloathing in hiphop is only spiraling deeper in oppression; even though it's a universal sentiment (everybody hates themselves sometimes), you just wanna point to Tony Soprano and recommend some therapy, 'cause clearly, help is no longer considered socially emasculating.Awol One, thankfully, doesn't suffer from this affliction to the point where it becomes the sole message of his music though he certainly whips up a vast mire of his own insecurity on Propaganda. Sure, he spits some selfhate through his phlegmy rasp, and even a little reflective selfpity, which actually finds a comfortable residence in his morose, boggy halfsinging. But mostly, Awol solves his own problems before he begs for sympathy. When he asks, \"Why do I always destroy all the good things in my life?\" he answers his own question: \"Selfdestructive behavior.\" Atmosphere, listen and learn.Of course, Propaganda does have its share of selfdestructive behavior. There's plenty of it including selfabuse. But Awol gets most specific when he's reflective, when he finds solace in a rhyme. Acting not so much as a mirror as a barometer, he observes, \"Music is just like a heartbeat. Watch the world, and I gotta take notes,\" and simply, \"Music makes me feel alive.\" He presents himself as a scribe, representing for those that beat themselves down, empathizing with their plight, sometimes calling them (himself?) out: \"You look so sad in your selfcentered, lonely life.\" Propaganda is pregnant with these kinds of conversationally paced cadences and Awol's perpetually gritty vocal timbre, which conveys a certain raw fragility. Like just about everything these days, it's so goddamn meta.Honestly, though, it sometimes hurts to listen to this, which means he's doing his job. Because the record is, for the most part, art as therapy, the nerve Awol hits is sometimes too raw in its brutal emotional honesty (\"Sometimes I don't mind being a loser. But I'm not a beginner\"). Not to mention Fat Jack's beats lowkey and spacious, almost minimal, and about as funky as a funeral procession. There's no escapism in Awol's inner dialogue, no effort to paint himself as fuckedupcrazy and therefore cool; there is beauty, however, in the knowledge he's spoonfeeding you the cold, hard truth.  "}