{"label":" Clearly","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3871/homepage_large.7cf6f7a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"The Holy Ghost","title":"Color Sympathy","text":" This could be the only band out of Brooklyn, NY that doesn't play nowave, electroclash or garage rock. It's like they were going up against New York's haute couture music trends, but went with the pocket tee: sturdy, comfortable and not too striking. Those of you who look to the competitive Brooklyn Diaspora for the most exciting, battletested new rock may not be floored, but the Holy Ghost are a solid guitar band that at least knows how to write a song and sing it like lives are at stake. On Color Sympathy, the second of two albums they cut last year, the Holy Ghost combine a muttlike mix of influences. Their style is consistent enough not to be showy, but broad enough to explain how they could win support slots with everyone from the Dismemberment Plan to the Damned; if you had to sum them up in a couple words, I'd go with \"heartfelt\" and \"ponderous\". From the first cut they deploy barreling guitars and hyperearnest vocals, lurching on the title track between big crests and deeplyfelt ruts. That song and the closer the draggedout \"Pinocchio's Nose\" heavily bookend the album, as the rest of the album moves from ballads to rockers without ever shaking off that leaden intent. Some of the blame lies with Christopher Dean Heine. A forceful singer, he wails with overwrought machismo, but he can't overcome the fact that if everything sounds important, nothing actually is. \"Sunday's Calling\" would be a Spoonworthy rock 'n' roll song if Heine didn't sing it like he was working on a difficult bowel movement. Not afraid of dishing out wordy imagery, he gets off some sharp lyrics the alliterative \"like a libertine from Lawrence, Kansas,\" or the seductive comeon, \"your mother looks like Sharon Tate\" but he drops into pomposity, proclaiming the \"Berlin Wall was destroyed by rock and roll.\" He gets his rock on for the Walkmenlike \"Snow White\", which kicks off with only drums backing his voice finally raspy, and spitting authority and at last ponies up some real excitement. The rest of the band mostly stays where they're put the throwaway instrumental \"Toledo\", for example, makes them sound solid if not extraordinary; to their credit the Holy Ghost are very tight, and probably great in concert. The ballads become rumbling and atmospheric thanks to guitarist Alec Ferrell, who has a mighty, wide sound with just a little shimmer; when it's time to get loud, he lays on a gritty, distorted tone that'll wake up the back rows. \"Berlin Wall\" sounds eerily close to lateperiod XTC: the band's real strength is never writing a song that runs too fast or skimps on tunes. With just eight songs run through in under half an hour, Color Sympathy has the overbeforeitreallystarts feel of an EP. It's wellbalanced, wellrounded and wellplayed; it's confident, and it's not too trendy. But it also feels like the work of a strong opening act for a more accomplished headliner too often it's emotional without nuance, loud without pizzazz, catchy, but not grabbing. Color Sympathy is good enough to get them big shows, but the Holy Ghost need to push things farther to earn a cushy time slot. "}