{"label":" Howling","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3873/homepage_large.22cd7327.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Homunculus","title":"Words","text":" Homunculus is one of those words that's pretty much exited the English language over the years there really just arex92t that many opportunities to use it, and it sounds awkward in conversation unless you have John Cleese's accent. The modern definition is simple enough: \"n; a diminutive human,\" according to the American Heritage dictionary. But there's a second, archaic definition that I prefer: \"n; a miniature, fully formed individual believed by adherents of the early biological theory of preformation to be present in the sperm cell.\" There's just something about the image in the second definition I find hilarious. Like, here's this little guy, piloting a sperm toward an egg, and when he gets there, he just starts expanding, like those dinosaur sponge things you got at the museum store when you were a kid. The theory is so obviously bogus on so many surface levels it's staggering. Who in any medical capacity in any era could seriously have looked at a baby and not noticed how different the physical proportions were from an adult? It's just absurd. This, of course, makes the name just about perfect for a band like Homunculus, who use absurdity and wit as their lyrical bread and butter. In fact, the wit of the writing can get a bit grating over the course of a full album, but taken individually, each of the ten songs on Words, this quintet's debut there are four of them on the album cover, but they're a quintet works pretty well. Actually, come to think of it, there's one exception, but we'll get to that in a minute. First, the things they do correctly. If there's one undeniable strength these five guys possess, it's the gift of melody. They whip out one earclobbering hook after another, going ten for ten with a couple extrabase hits for good measure. This is critical for a band whose musical formula is pretty conventional verses, choruses, the occasional bridge, and fairly steady instrumentation so every song here has to hold up its end or things get boring really fast.  \"Here and There\" establishes the sound right away: Ben Doepke's prominent piano licks pass the chords while drums and auxiliary percussion serve up a bouncing rhythm and double tracked vocals spread melody into every available nook. The spins on this formula range from the Caribbean cocktail piano that dominates \"Deep South Beach\" to the smokier R&B; of \"Time in a Can\", which owes a lot of its success to Adam Schoex92s melodic bass line and the band's close harmonies. \"Walking Home\" supports detailed lyrics about losing out on a bus ride for lack of sufficient pocket change with a bass and percussion pattern that actually approaches fusion, cut through with weird, echoing synthesizer. The best song on hand, though, is \"When Sheila Dances\", which marks a huge step forward lyrically with its surrealist imagery and vivid description. \"When Sheila Dances she lights on fire/ And through the laughter she melts like butter,\" \"The world is merely a book of matches/ He wants her spirit/ He wants her ashes.\" The song's smoothly delivered minor key melody is entrancing, and easily the album's highlight. On the other end of the spectrum, though, is \"Stargazing\", which opens with the nonsequitur \"Stargazing from the bathroom/ Naked astronaut,\" and continues with what seems like an unsuccessful attempt to break down the effects of weightlessness on love and some other stuff that I'm not really clear on. What it all adds up to is a semisolid debut spiked with a bit a bit of potential. The album's production has a sort of neutering smoothness to it, which will likely put off a good many prospective fans (and dropped this rating a bit as well), but the composition and performance really cax92t be denied. At the very least, Homunculus are pretty well formed at this nascent stage, and could develop into a pretty formidable band very quickly. "}