{"label":" Level Plane","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3885/homepage_large.52282bd9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Hot Cross","title":"Cryonics","text":" PostLightning Bolt, when the usually distracted media started paying bits of attention to noisy, visceral experimentation, bands who kick't the spastic histrionics fullon ended up collecting an unfair amount of comparisons to that there ubiquitous Providence, RIbased drum + bass duo. Lightning Bolt are good, but the unschooled folks trying to explain 'em aren't: LB are barely the tip of a vast, complex aesthetic, certainly not as anomalous or outofnowhere as the powers that be would have you think. I'm all up in arms, in my halfassed way, because I've seen and heard Hot Cross compared to Lightning Bolt. So lame! Such ridiculousness! A comparison like that not only strikes me as completely naïve, it denies the existence of hardcore! So why be a hardcore denier? Well, uh, because hardcore has a fucking milelong list of bad connotations. (The straightedge kids nod in fatuous agreement, tripping o'er their pants as they reach for their Big Gulp). Once \"the kids\" more outwardly turned into jocks and suburban squares (the shit was, for a time, latent in their souls), it got much cooler to call hardcore something else: post this or that, new metal, jagged whatever. Even the Hot Cross press kit avoids the term, opting instead for \"technicalpunkmetal.\" Nope, son, this is hardcore! Genre is as genre does. I grew up listening to hardcore and I partially accept its glaring shortcomings like I grudgingly accept the neuroses of my family. With that in mind, when I listen to Hot Cross they definitely win points for: A. Not having even a single vocalist who sounds like Cookie Monster. B. Lyrics that aren't just a bunch of strungtogether cliches about the scene and \"dead\" friends. C. Offering dynamics beyond a requisite hardcore breakdown, the one where the kids punch the floor or tap their chests and stare at the ceiling. D. Having graphic design sense. E. Being out of high school. Hot Cross are a good hardcore band. A good band, period. Intrepid tour companions of MeltBanana, they formed in 2001 when LevelPlane owner Greg Drudy decided to hit the skins again. He played drums in the screamy band Saetia and was also the original drummer for Interpol (no shit!). With hardcore on the mind, he gathered some friends together including exmembers of Neil Perry, Off Minor, and You and I and that's Hot Cross. The band's secret weapon, and the reason I want to listen to this record so often: three vocalists shouting and singing in different registers, bullets ricocheting throughout a metal room. The vocal trio thing not only works well to propel the songs into interesting territories the reliance on human voices to raise mine soul transforms Hot Cross into a rabid version of a boy band. \"Fortune Teller\" reminds me of Small Brown Bike or maybe heavier Christie Front Drive: melodic voice in one speaker, screamer in the other, someone all up in a hissy fit elsewhere. The chant of \"fuck not lest ye be fucked\" is repeated until it grows like a hardcore snowball! monsoon! into a crackling, sidesplitting acapella. If only I knew what it meant. This approach is also evident on \"Pretty Picture of a Broken Face\", where an almost emo sigh clashes with distant screaming and a more upfront shout. Wisely, Hot Cross aren't afraid of straddling genres. \"Patience and Prudence\" is sad like the metal dirges of old (think Metallica), but then there's some CHUGGA guitar to lift your spirits, too. \"Figure Eight\" is unremarkable, but almost country. (Well, at least the guitars.) While listening to it, I thought of Team Dresch's \"Freewheel\" and remembered what a good band they were. It's only when Hot Cross get overly hardcore overidentifying with the less exciting aspects of the monster that I grow kinda weary. This happened now and again. \"A Weekend Spent Askance\" and \"Dissertation: 14\" are indistinguishable and chock full o' yawns. To their credit, even during these otherwise duds, there are brief lyrical gems (\"Forget the phony fuck that thinks with an ass instead of a head\") or tiny flourishes like a wailing flange, an undistorted guitar, ringing noise sped up and slowed down, radio hiss, and/or an almost reggae dub. Overall, Cryonics is an intense if sometimes average ride. More importantly to the thesis, though, Hot Cross aren't postmetal or preprimitive this or blah blah that or whatever the fuck; they're basically what trueblue hardcore sounds like after having interestingly evolved. Put on your hoodies, kids! "}