{"label":" Ohev","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3886/homepage_large.751f97fc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt Stephens","artist":"Hot Hot Heat","title":"Scenes One Through Thirteen","text":" These are great times for Canada. Not only is it not headed for a war only 37% of its population approves of, it has, in the past two years, become a hotbed of indie activity, unleashing stellar underground hiphop from Buck 65, and Swollen Members, experimental weirdness by Godspeed You Black Emperor and Set Fire to Flames, the postpunk of The Constantines and Radio Berlin, and the stunning pop of bands like The New Pornographers, Broken Social Scene, and, of course, Hot Hot Heat.Make Up the Breakdown was truly one of the most uniquely entertaining rock records of 2002. A curiously appealing batch of organdriven rockers, packed with twistedup melodies and breakneck time changes, it made for a halfhour of music that was, above all else, incredibly fun and mere weeks after its release, it sent these Victoriabased hipsters into the indiehype stratosphere. The music seemed prepackaged to shun labeling, but at its base we could detect a steady balance of new wave quirk and postpunk angularity, with the throaty, viciously overwrought vocals of Steve Bays making or breaking the band for listeners. Those who dug his unusual style, or could at least get beyond it, found a markedly original album, free of the navelgazing emo pretensions that taint so many of their indie rock brethren. In short, Make Up the Breakdown inspired as much dancing and good cheer as it did journalistic hyperbole an attribute that Warner Bros. surely took into account when signing the band near the end of the year. So it seems only logical that at least some semblance of Make Up the Breakdown's sound would exist on Scenes One Through Thirteen, a compilation of old seveninch EPs that showcases the band in their noisier, scruffier, and ultimately less enjoyable embryonic stage. Unfortunately, these songs, while far more crunchy and furious than anything on Breakdown, tend to approach tedium in their sheer brutality; though it all makes for music jagged enough to cause lacerations, it's rarely likeable on its own terms. There are three chief problems here: one is the grating, guttural vocals of the massively hardcoreinfluenced exfrontman Matthew Marnik, who was later kicked out of the band and replaced by thenkeyboardist Bays; second, despite its hardcore leanings, the album lacks any guitar whatsoever, with the band leaning on only keyboards, drums and vocals; and lastly, there's scarcely a melody to be found. The band's grasp on unconventional song structure, distinctive arrangements and jerky dynamics are all present, but Hot Hot Heat neglect to craft any real songs around them in fact, they seem stubbornly preoccupied with simply grinding as hard as they possibly can, with little regard for anything else. The record's overt hotbloodedness quickly becomes pedestrian as these unstable, atonal tracks tend to blend together without finding much purpose perhaps that's why they were originally released as seveninches. If nothing else, Scenes One Through Thirteen does make for an interesting sort of whereweretheythen archival document, proving that, as a rhythmic unit, they were always pretty tight (check Paul Hawley's ruthless, multidimensional drumming). It also further lifts confidence for what they may be able to achieve by the time their next record sees release. But even so, I wouldn't imagine the group has enough diehard fans to warrant the release of what essentially amounts to old demos a sound they themselves have entirely disowned, and even now seem embarrassed of. Which all leaves Scenes One Through Thirteen, at best, a moderately interesting chronicle of Hot Hot Heat's development from volatile screamers into the unique pop band they are today. "}