{"label":" Swami","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3892/homepage_large.6e2e9017.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Hot Snakes","title":"Audit in Progress","text":" Let it never be said that the Swami doesn't love the rock. When the turbaned one isn't disinterring forgotten gems from the lightless mines of classic punk, to reissue them with bonus tracks and modern production values, he's seeking out new bands that replicate the glory of '77 with striking fidelity and a rigid permasneer. Thus has it come to pass that Swami has reissued infamous San Fran garagepunks Crime twice in 2004 first, the Crime CD San Francisco's Still Doomed, and again, in the guise of the third Hot Snakes LP of heatseeking protopunk, Audit in Progress. Hot Snakes is the latest chapter in a longrunning partnership between John Reis and Rick Froberg, who began grinding out antic, gasolinedoused rock together in the band Pitchfork, then attained indie immortality with their mathpunk band Drive Like Jehu. The duo parted ways for a while in the midtolate90s, as Reis attempted to capitalize upon the temporary commercial viability of his other band, Rocket from the Crypt, and Froberg pursued his visual art, the distinctive, stylized line work that now adorns Hot Snakes CDs. Reis and Froberg reunited around the turn of the millennium, with Delta 72 drummer Jason Kourkounis providing the robust rhythmic chassis. Unexpectedly, the spirit of Jehu was revived, to the enduring elation of fans still lamenting their breakup after their seminal swan song, Yank Crime. There are numerous, comparative ways of understanding Hot Snakes a more concise, streamlined version of Jehu, or RFTC without the greaser sensibility and wailing saxes. But they're best discerned on their own terms: a desire to carry on the legacy of classic punk bands like Crime (roiling, distressed rock riffs) and Suicide (menacing, propulsive rhythms) with a minimum of modern revision. Reviews of familiar bands often deal predominantly with progressions, a tactic that fails to find purchase in music that seems resistant to change and intent on holding its ground. Hot Snakes have staked out their sonic territory like a lion guarding the carcass of a slain gazelle, snarling in an unassailable splaylegged stance. As such, we'll examine their scanty alterations straightaway. The most glaring is the replacement of Kourkounis by RFTC/Black Heart Procession drummer Mario Rubalcaba, and if Audit in Progress evinces a slight decline in raw power, this embryonic dynamic is the likely cause. While Rubalcaba is a proficient percussionist possessed of a distinct style, his crisper, more rigid drumming simply doesn't mesh as well with Hot Snakes' metallic doomrock guitars and monotone shoutalongs as Kourkounis's rumbling, primal pounding did. Audit in Progress remains sufficiently fierce, but sounds a little tinny when compared to the rippling muscles of 2002's Suicide Invoice. Besides this foundational shift, Hot Snakes pick up right where they left off perhaps the songs are a little shorter, a bit more compressed, but are still of a piece with anything from Suicide Invoice and Automatic Midnight. The new album opens with \"Braintrust\". A rapidfire rhythm guitar recalling Black Flag paves the way for a cyclical, trebly lead, frantic drums, and the locked groove of Gar Wood's fleet bass. Froberg takes on the role of misanthropic sloganeer or streetcorner proselytizer, belting out his apocalyptic aphorisms over furiously oscillating punk rock. Like many a Hot Snakes song, it's a runaway bus that drags the listener in its wake like a loose muffler, bouncing and sparking on asphalt. The chorus manifests an immediately recognizable Hot Snakes' tactic: the relentless momentum accordionwrecks into ominous, anthemic chords that are sustained like a held breath before the panting exhalations of the verses kick in again.  Other standout tracks include \"HiLites\", \"Think About Carbs\", and album closer \"Plenty for All\". \"HiLites\" attains a hysterically seesawing balance, pivoting violently on the fulcrum of Froberg's hollered nonsequiturs. \"Think About Carbs\" is one of a couple tracks that break the album's hypnotic drive, forfeiting it for a starker sound: Sparse, staccato guitars allow the muted bassline to shine, and both collude to create a platform for the record's most polychromatic singing. Froberg's more variegated vocal inflections and unusual prolixity border on a hoarse, punk version of rap, and strategic phrase repetitions (\"boxes boxes boxes boxes\") grace the song with a mounting urgency akin to Richard Hell's \"New Pleasure\" (\"automatic automatic automatic automatic\"). And \"Plenty for All\", which one would have expected to find sequenced earlier in the album for its instant appeal, kicks off with a gleaming lead cribbed from GnR's \"Sweet Child o' Mine\", harmonically twinned with chugging power chords. It's as close as Hot Snakes come to fashionable, limpid indie rock, a concession to the power of melody amid a brutal homage to scorched ozone and ruinous riffage.  For those familiar with Hot Snakes' backcatalog, there are few surprises to be found on Audit in Progress, but Jehu is so beloved that fans tend to adore anything Reis and Froberg touch, as long as it doesn't stray too far from their established dynamic. Their third Hot Snakes album finds them hunkering down inside it, and should find favor with those who don't understand why such a high premium is placed on newness in rock, a genre that once consisted of barre chords and simple fury. I don't know if Aesop had any fables about snakes; if not, Reis and Froberg are writing one for him. The ostensive moral: Revision is for pussies, and reinvention the last refuge of the depleted and uninspired.  "}