{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3899/homepage_large.8a0dc291.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Howard Hello","title":"Howard Hello","text":" Occasionally you come across new music that you'd rather describe by its stylistic features, by the personality it exudes and the feelings it engenders, than by conventional categories like genre. It's how 60s free jazz came to be known as 'fire music', and how the hyperkinetic flux of drumnbass captured the sounds of the (urban) jungle in the 1990s. The music I want to talk about takes the form of dissolution whether of the mental sort, typified by the justthisshortofcollapse doodling of the Jad Fair/Daniel Johnston set; or of the musical sort, found in serialist composition's noteclusters or the recent trend towards deconstructionist remixes. In Howard Hello, we have a bit of both. Marty Anderson comes to the group from Dilute, and Wendy Allen from The Court and Spark. Kenseth Thibideau was formerly with Temporary Residence mainstays Tarentel, and also plays in Rumah Sakit and Thingy. Triangulate the trio and you might have the vaguest idea of what the band sounds like though it won't be entirely accurate. \"Television\" leads you on at first with sensitive acoustic guitar picking, as if this might be an album of folk ballads. But then the chords pick up speed, riffling into a blur like the experimental landscapes explored by John Fahey. As the tangents diverge, a sample of found sound enters the piece, with crowd murmur and the whine of vehicle brakes. A steel drum or Hawaiian guitar burbles in the background, strangely haunting. The second track, \"Belief\", offers a more official statement of intent. Wendy Allen's angelic vocals sigh into the sustained waves of an organ, rising and falling together. The guitar spills outwards from underneath in a series of crystalline, toylike figures. After these euphoric moments, \"Revolution\" darkens the mood. A bluesy, minor key intro gets swept up by an undercurrent of distortion, continually shifting in and out of pitch. Over this eerie backdrop Marty Anderson coos his creepy rasp of a voice, sounding more female than male, like Lydia Lunch on Quaaludes. \"The only way out of here is in,\" he insists over and over, as the fraying feedback pries apart the rhythm. What follows are a number of revisions of the three previous themes. \"America\" reprises \"Belief\" with ethereal arpeggios, intricate trails spun out onto the warm bassline. Though he doesn't sing on every track, Anderson comes in at the end here with another of his repeated phrases \"I couldn't say no.\" \"Prozac\" follows as a serene meditation, full of contemplative pickwork chiming with echoing accents and chirpy phrases. Howard Hello have a way of sounding both busy and calm at the same time; you can choose to hear the slow pulse of the low registers, or get wrapped up in the scribbles of the highend. \"Dream\" illustrates the differential with bluesy chords inflated by clouds of synthesizers, and the interplay between the two reminds me of Brian Eno and Robert Fripp's careful collaboration on Evening Star. Howard Hello have opened up a strange world here, a mesh of organic and synthesized sounds whose only apparent contemporary is Chris Rosenau's work as Collections of Colonies of Bees. Their music alternates between quiet introspection and frenetic peaks, from Marty Anderson's hushed, unhinged musings to spiraling fret streams, the musical equivalent of babbling glossolalia. They've found an effective technique in the twining of their strings: at times it sounds like the music is being torn apart by the tethers, while at others a whole range of new, microtonal bursts of sound are birthed out of the ultrafast, frilly runs. Forty minutes pass without a hint of percussion, and you barely notice. I'm not sure what the loose socialawareness of the song titles is supposed to mean, but Howard Hello offer a mysterious, intriguing escape from it all. "}