{"label":" Fancy","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3904/homepage_large.8765f22d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kevin Adickes","artist":"Hrsta","title":"L'eclat du Ciel Était Insoutenable","text":" Insomnia is a harsh mistress. It inevitably sides with your more impulsive self, leaving logic at the door. Anyone who's ever gone or a fournight study bender will understand. Something as perverse as lining every inch of your room with mirrors may seem logical at the time but, as the cast of the film Alive discovered, the rationale can't always be justified in the face of social scrutiny. However, after finding myself driving about Austin's seediest neighborhoods at 4:00 a.m. blasting Snow's \"Informer\" at an ungodly volume, even I had to admit that I had a problem. Having been seduced by many of the myriad New Age philosophies blurring the lines between genuine medical practice and transcendentalist scam artistry, I made the decision to take leave of longtime friend and personal physician Dr. Schreiber and seek the clinical opinion of 'Hopie,' an authentic fengshui master who happened to dabble in alternative remedies. After listening intently to the horrors of my descent into madness, he flipped through his record collection. The artists I could discern from my wicker topplebowl across the foyer were completely alien to me. Nowhere ir my travails had I encountered musicians with such exotic names as Tanakh, Keiji Haino, or Tomas Jirku. Needless to say, names of such foreign cadence were quite impressive while under the influence of Hopie's slightly inebriating incense. When he finally prescribed a twoweek tenure with Hrsta's L'eclat du Ciel Était Insoutenable, I felt the rare but refreshing surge of snobbery familiar only to the musical 'elite.' What ensued was much less exhilarating: my research on Hrsta revealed that the project was merely a vehicle for Mike Moya, cofounder of such postrock luminaries as Godspeed You Black Emperor and another personal addiction, Set Fire to Flames. I soon discovered, however, that cred alone isn't enough to sustain a poorly conceived exploratior of dissonance. Although my insomnia was gone, it wasn't because Moya had painted a gorgeous and inviting sonic tapestry capable of tempting my defiant psyche into slumber. Nor were there any insurmountable walls of terror with which to frighten myself into a state of coma. Rather, I was subjected to distant orchestral 'scores' consisting largely of single, undulating notes occasionally interrupted by sparse attempts at cabaret numbers. Never mind that the more traditional songs to be found throughout the album all boasted the same tempo, Moya's raspy Jonathan DonahuecumKim Gordon vocals, and lyrics that sounded as if they were borne of some illfated collaboration between Rage Against the Machine and Tristan Tzara. One can only stand the refrain, \"The bricks start to fall/ Like so many teeth,\" so many times before it begins to lose its poetic pretense. It's to Moya's credit that L'eclat du Ciel Était Insoutenable is consistent in its cinematic creepiness despite its overbearing length. Songs such as \"Lime Kiln\" break from the record's formulaic instrumentation by incorporating such exotic sounds as a theremin (a hallmark of any campy 50s scifi/nuclear fallout melodrama) succeed in offering a unique take on Hrsta's postapocalyptic lyrical obsessions. But, in maintaining the ethereal and haunting mood of the record, Moya often falls back on the same aural tricks, the most notable being the liberally administered reverb which coats the entire damn album, drowning out whatever subtle intricacies were to be found in the songwriting. With my insomnia all but vanished I have more time to deal with my newly established disillusionment. As added insurance, I cut Hopie loose and have returned to legally sponsored medical aid (all the while praying that my insolence won't be rewarded with a painfully unnecessary prostate exam). Though still a very disappointing release, I've come to think of Hrsta as an anomaly: Moya exercising his ability as a songwriter while hamfistedly tending to his established 'sound.' Though I'd never refer to any aspect of Moya's music as 'irreverent,' the man has never taken himself less seriously then he does here. "}