{"label":" Enschuldigen","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3906/homepage_large.51c79dde.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Hrvatski","title":"Irrevocably Overdriven Break Freakout Megamix","text":" I always felt slightly disoriented whenever I left the recording studio at Rocklin High School in California. I blame it on the din of education: a dozenodd classmates pouring their souls or resisting narcoleptic boredom by pecking at a synthesizers, drum machines, and effects processors, murdering their favorite Nirvana and Smashing Pumpkins songs on outoftune acoustic guitars, or taking fiveminute turns playing medleys of Primus songs on a battered trapkit. Whatever instrument or studio equipment used, there was a tendency to first be benignly calm in studying what each sound or widget can do, before the adolescence kicks in and taxpayers are left with the thousands in repair bills. Such memories hit me when I heard Irrevocably Overdriven Break Freakout Megamix, the first and possibly sole live document of Hrvatski recorded in San Francisco's RX Gallery during the Jiffy Scuttler concert series on July 30, 2004. This \"Croatian\" is the alias for Yankee noisenik Keith Fullerton Whitman. He is a Berkleeeducated, electronic music historian who concocted mature pieces for guitar feedback, and experimented with Harvard University's Serge synthesizer. Yet, as Hrvatski, he typically follows moments of graceful meditation on his guitar or synth with splatters of beats and frequencies tweaked into high heaven. It seems Whitman has three basic noises locked into his mind: Drones that drizzle trails behind every moving object, as heard in the projects authored under his Christian name; toy storebought, zappergun buckshot; and his the \"Amen\" breakbeat operated like dilapidated steel factories run by sleepdeprived, sweatshop workers. If anything, Whitman is a pioneer of \"fuckstep,\" the art of shoving as many different breaks into a splitsecond as a possible. That said, Irrevocably Overdriven could be one hell of an epitaph for Hrvatski. On his label Reckankomplex's website, he claimed this \"will most likely be Hrvatski's swan song.\" That would be a damn shame; the laptop performance encompasses Hrvatski's sevenodd years of savagery and slapstick all caught in volumes cranked into the red on the recording deck. The set, which he describes as \"incorporating the guts of an analogue modular synth simulator, several pitchtracking and attacksensing randomevent distributors, many temposynced filtering algorithms, 10 kinds of realtime granular grunkage, etc.,\" is a marvel to be pulverized with in one sitting. The 40minute concert is divided into 91 segments, ranging from 20 seconds to one minute long, but the performance feels as if lasts for three hours. He shows off his studies of about every squareinch of that damn \"Amen\" break making its soul float above its body or slowing it down to a cement mixer grind. The performance disrupts any sort of dance hooks by veering back and forth between beat assaults, their digitally enchanted smoldering of distortion, some tomfoolery with laser or robotic blurps, and then it's back to the firing squad. Whitman thankfully makes most of the discord addictive, deepening his sound's depth and textures by keeping it slightly distant with an echo. The best moments are surprises like a jazz piano melody that suddenly asks you for a dance amid the street riot, a Nintendo Gameboy melody that whistles on its way to work, and tracks from his sadly overlooked 7\" EP, Raume, where Whitman mutated household objects like pots, pans, bedsprings, and creaking doors into breakcore rhythms. The selfindulgence can be too much at times, where Whitman often pulls apart his noises and leaves nightmares on the petri dish. However, if Irrevocably Overdriven is indeed his last recording as Hrvatski, then the dying breaths of this Whitman alias can be heard across all four winds on this record. "}