{"label":" Swami","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3931/homepage_large.28e634eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Husbands","title":"Introducing the Sounds of The Husbands","text":" A high percentage of 60s garagerock bands probably could have done everyone a favor and stayed there. In the garage, I mean (very few of them managed to escape the 60s). Not many of these guys' ambitions ever exceeded the primal desire that coursed through the veins of our hairiest, most slopebrowed ancestors the desire (of course) to rock and it's hard to fault someone for genetic predisposition. Some of these bands, like The Seeds, The Barbarians, The Godz, or The Sonics even wormed their way back onto hipster entrance exams as soon as someone accidentally mistook The Strokes' New York lofts for carholes. Certainly, the unbearably dirty, bluesinfected sound of the 60s garage movement often made for incredible rock 'n' roll, but in the end, the sheer paucity of musical ideas at its core all but ensured two things: 1) The vast majority of the bands, outside of a few select singles, sounded virtually identical. Rock was still in its infancy, and so most of these teenagers were drawing from the same exceedingly shallow pool of influences the founding fathers (Berry, Holly, etc.) and blues roots and though all of them were likely to know their way around a blues progression, most's knowledge of the blues was about as deep as a scratch on a John Lee Hooker 45. Superprimitive production techniques just short of handcarving the vinyl then conspired to make sure that any attempt at subtlety was virtually inaudible. Bands couldn't even play out without their own raunchedup version of \"Louie Louie\", and if it wasn't better The Sonics' nuclearstrength rendition, they shouldn't have bothered. 2) As a direct result of 1), most of these bands have been tidily forgotten, even in the wake of rampant revivalism. An ignominious end, for sure, but that's why we need bands like The Husbands; without them, who would remind us both of the visceral power of garage rock as well as why it was longforgotten in the first place? After working on a litany of prior falsestarts over the past few years, Sadie Shaw (exVanishing) and Sarah Reed (exLies) hooked up with Nikki Sloate (exNo Knife) to form The Husbands (exevery negligibly important band of all time) and play some oldfashioned, nofrills sludge. Introducing the Sounds of The Husbands fairly blazes through fourteen tracks of classic guitargrind and drumming straight from the Meg White School of Percussion (School motto: \"Why are there so many different drums on this set?\") to close out at fastandhard 26six minutes. But even within two tracks, it's clear that they have a judo hold on real garage rock. That's a mixedblessing, sadly; just like the classics from which they draw their sound, it proves to be as intermittently refreshing as it is ultimately monotonous. Fortunately for anyone big on instant gratification, The Husbands produce like champs; the immediacy of these songs is never suspect. On nearly every track, nothing is withheld every chord, snare hit, bass kick, or cymbal crash is banged out fullforce. Even if they were leaking oil, with four flats and a swarm of Africanized killer bees trapped inside the car, they'd still have the pedal on the floor, so give credit where it's due. On \"I'm Doing Fine\", they hold back just long enough, coasting on a slick little groove before allout ignition on Sugar Pie DeSanto's \"In the Basement\", the album's only really impressive build. It's so impressive, however, that it becomes clear what a shame it is that they don't hold out a little more often. But The Husbands aren't the kind of band that trucks with pansy stuff like subtlety or restraint, and I reckon they'll pick a fight soon as look at you just for mentioning it. Sometimes that's fine, if the songwriting and energy can back up the fullthrottle approach, but here it fails more often than it works, and that's the big problem with Introducing's abundance of misguided energy. Nearly half of these songs are covers. Extremely faithful renditions of The Barbarians' \"Take It or Leave It\", or Half Pint & The Fifths' \"Orphan Boy\" immediately stand out as the best songs here. The beautiful, pacebreaking versions of doowop hits \"Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow\" and The Drifters' \"There Goes My Baby\" are fine, as well, but it takes a rare charm to muster the same magic as a great original. The Husbands, unfortunately, don't quite nail it, instead residing in a terrifying limbo where they play just well enough to fall short of evoking the feel of the source material, but perfectly adequately to overshadow their own songwriting, which can only come off as bland and (not accidentally) exceedingly derivative in comparison just like the old days. There's such a thing as too faithful; garage meant the world to punk and to the current state of rock 'n' roll, but homage or not, its faults are better left obscured in revisionist history. "}