{"label":" Freedom From","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3943/homepage_large.6e59c71a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Hair Police","title":"Obedience Cuts","text":" There are probably numerous reasons bloody foreign policies, the jock's need for extremism, urban and suburban decay, smalltown ennui but whatever's behind the ascension, cathartic posthardcore noise has, in the past couple of years, careened a bit towards the mainstream. Surely these feedbacking subtexts and threadbare codes will bat nary an eye amid commercial radio pablum or earn even subsubpar digitalis at Billboard, but still, the crunk of wires and modulators slouches towards greater recognition: Wolf Eyes have become the most raucous act on the bigtime Sub Pop roster, suburban teens sport spankin' new CBGB's tees at Lightning Bolt & Black Dice & Locust throwdowns, Carlos Giffoni's threeday No Fun festival was pleasantly packed with folks boogying along with To Live and Shave in L.A. like they were Outkast, and now Hair Police are taking their slashandburn to the Solar Stage at Lollapalooza. These are baby steps one and all, but allow ye olde timers a flashback to more than a decade of spectacularly unattended shows by Harry Pussy, Pengo, Blowhole, Shadow Ring, Borbetomagus, Climax Golden Twins, or Noggin and the attention bespeaks a fullon revolution.Hair Police formed in Lexington, KY 2001; Obedience Cuts, their first fulllength since 2002's Blow Out Your Blood, features guitarist and vocalist Mike Connelly at the helm, Robert Beatty on electronics, and Trevor Tremaine pounding drums and tapes. For this particularly mesmerizing effort they say they're \"chronicling the relationship between inside/outside and signaling a call to arms for the GNARLY TIMES.\" I'm not entirely sure about that platform, but there's certainly something bubbling within the album's violently ecstatic nine tracks.Obedience Cuts wrangles and wrestles with carcinogens and pops sonic blisters, festering a la Aaron Dilloway's solo Wolf Eyes' jaunts, soundtracks for the decomposition of vermin; throughout, the percussion's intense, the sounds ring and shatter. There are less Negative Approach scowls than the lupine Ann Arbor supergroup, but Connelly offers how own paranormal howls on the unforgiving monster mash \"Boneless\", and Spencer Yeh of Burning Star Core Death Beam on hellfire violin. Elsewhere, Connelly transforms himself into a possessed and baying hound, informed by the Jesus Lizard's back catalog, on the absolutely searing percussive spincycle \"Open Body\". Innards receive a lot of lip here, both in title and allout musical evisceration.The facile Wolf Eyes comparison isn't to say this is a mere simulation. You could as easily namedrop a less grooveoriented Throbbing Gristle, Cock ESP, and extra especially, an organic rock 'n' roll take on Whitehouse. The overdriven opener, \"Let's See Who's Here and Who's Not\", is a spastic roll call built upon instrumental crescendo sandwiches and distorted howls and yelps. On a more mellow tip, \"The Empty Socket\" is a sweaty gong shower scene, complete with a dose of hacking and choking on what I imagine to be bloody meat stew.From the drowned (and somehow peaceful) rodent on the cover to the explosive product, Obedience Cuts solicits a wellpaced ebb and flow. The album doesn't tire or lag; it ends up nicely clipped and even danceable (for the mad) at points. Released on CD by the Minneapolis' label Freedom From it's also available also on LP via Gods of Tundra in an edition of 500 copies with a silkscreened chipboard foldover cover. (Noise has always been so collectible.) For those with extra ducats, there are also upcoming releases on Hanson (including a DVD), Hospital Productions, and Liquid Death/Hello. But, to bring the initial comparison full circle and to come to a typical refrain with this sort of kudzuvine growth pattern, Hair Police might not have as many releases as Wolf Eyes, but it's safe to say they're catching up, and Obedience Cuts is a more than adequate spot to start your vision quest.  "}