{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3944/homepage_large.3f49ddeb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Hair Police","title":"Constantly Terrified","text":" It's Horror Show Suspense Building 101: the less an audience actually sees of the monster, the scarier it becomes. The more your creature can remain concealed in the murky shadows just slightly offcamera, the longer you're able to distract from the fact that it's really just some bozo stagehand in a rubber mask. This would appear to be a lesson well absorbed by the three noiserock magi of Hair Police on Constantly Terrified, the latest ghoulish onslaught in the group's rapidly expanding discography. On this album's four lengthy tracks, the trio of guitarist/vocalist Mike Connelly, percussionist Trevor Tremaine, and electrician Robert Beatty make more judicious use of unadulterated squalling cacophony than on past releases like 2002's Blow Out Your Blood or 2004's Obedience Cuts. Here instead they place further discomfiting emphasis on clammy gooseflesh atmospherics while reserving their purest jolts of batteryacid intensity for those crucial moments that will inflict maximum listener trauma. Hair Police make most skillful use of this dramatic modulation on the opening \"Rattlers Echo\", a craftily brutal track that originally appeared on a 3\" CDR from the Chondritic Sound label. Bellycrawling beneath the acrid smoke of pulsing guitar, cutleryrattling percussion and ominous, animal like electronic cries, the three achieve visceral, almost unbearable heights of tension before (spoiler alert!) finally letting loose just around the fourminute mark with a blindsiding ambush of wild, inhuman ferocity. During the subsequent flesheating bacchanalia, the group's oftnoted debts to such noisy predecessors as Harry Pussy, Hanatarash, or Whitehouse become readily apparent. Impressive though this unmerciful maelstrom is, Hair Police extend the scene an unnecessary minute or two, and the track's furious, concentrated assault begins to crumble upon prolonged exposure to the sunlight. Following this comes \"The Haunting\", a sweaty, throbbing wall of Hammer Films signifiers that joins faraway, disembodied shrieks to lurching, haunted castle groans and swirls of dry ice fog. Dense with feedback and untraceable electronic spirits, this piece amplifies the album's unsettling, claustrophobic mood, a gloom that is never lifted or resolved as the listener is instead forced to simmer in the trio's sickly vapors. This grim, faceless unease also permeates the setclosing title track, a 13minute epic that stands as Hair Police's most finelygrained recording to date. Featuring unruly saxophone contributions from Wolf Eyes' John Olson, this piece seamlessly weaves between freeform BYGActuel jazz, dental drill electronics, and exaggerated, ungainly artrock gestures. A fitting close to this morbidly addictive and compelling album, on this track Hair Police as with the sinister swinging pendulum on the album's cover wreak the most damage not through violent assault, but in the dreadful anticipation of the possible blows to come. "}