{"label":" Hanson","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3945/homepage_large.18ada2b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Hair Police","title":"Drawn Dead","text":" Drawn Dead is one of a pair of fulllength Hair Police albums that arrived virtually simultaneously earlier this year the other being the supremely discomfiting Constantly Terrified on Troubleman Unlimited. And though each of these releases offers a unique and valuable entry to the prolific Kentucky/Michigan trio's eversuppurating noise, for my ticket Drawn Dead is the slightly more compelling of the two. It's almost inarguably Hair Police's most doggedly singleminded release to date, as its four untitled tracks combine to essentially form one continuous ashen flow, an unearthly current that represents the group's most selfassured departure yet from the more punkcentric splatter of earlier releases like 2002's Blow Out Your Blood. Recorded live with no overdubs, Drawn Dead pitilessly captures a doomed sonic wreckage that Hair Police have succinctly described as \"the sound of a burning human body.\" Though performed by the trio's regular lineup of Mike Connelly (Wolf Eyes), Trevor Tremaine, and Robert Beatty, the instrumental lineup here is unorthodox even by the group's nebulous standards. Without a true percussive in sight, drummer Tremaine joins Connelly on guitar and occasional vocals, while Beatty manipulates the proceedings electronically in realtime. But the description of their process or setup alone does little to prepare the listener for the album's patiently devised ambient crawl, since few of these generated drones and scrapes originate from easily pinpointed sources. Instead, in a manner reminiscent of Merzbow's grainiest abstractions, the group's various thrums here frequently coalesce into a single unified blacklit beam that sweeps scythelike across the countryside, mowing everything in its trajectory down at the ankles. Viewed from a safe distance, the surfaces of Drawn Dead can appear almost lifelessly monolithic and static, but upon closer investigation one can see that these tracks actually teem with movement and action. Over the course of the album's first two tracks, mudcaked walls of feedback and crackling distortion build, then collapse, then build again, while unsettling echoes, pauses, and stereopanning techniques ensure perpetual listener disorientation. And just as you're beginning to get a feel for this murky new habitat, the 11minute third track enters, raining shrieks of industrial detritus and disembodied spectral cries over the sickly, lowlying amplifier growls, before the brief finale sets everything spinning off in the undertow of its dark tide. It's an impressive performance in its own right, but when taken in conjunction with Constantly Terrified it signals that Hair Police are open for engagement with any mutated extremity of noise that crosses their collective snares, making their future possible directions seem virtually limitless. "}