{"label":" DBK Works","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/3948/homepage_large.9f2043ae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Doug Hilsinger / Caroleen Beatty","title":"Taking Tiger Mountain (By Strategy)","text":" As Pitchfork's Top 100 Albums of the 1970s list showed, Brian Eno ruled the decade, bookending it with the #100 entry and playing a huge role on our #1, David Bowie's Low. Interestingly, though, Eno's second solo album, Taking Tiger Mountain (By Strategy), failed to place in the pantheon at all. Strange that it was left out in the cold, especially as it always held a place in my heart, even if it is (rightfully) considered a chilly album. Chalk that up to Eno's early experimentation with drum machines and synthesizer technology, which propelled those hastily worded (yet still evocative) songs.Concurrent with Virgin's Eno reissues, Bay Area multiinstrumentalist Doug Hilsinger on either whim or dare cut a fullalbum cover of Taking Tiger Mountain, enlisting his friend Caroleen Beatty to take the vocal duties. The disc was never intended to see retail daylight, but at Brian Eno's lecture appearance at The Long Now Foundation in San Francisco, the duo slipped him a CDR copy of their secret love letter. And when the man responded with the realization that \"they aren't bad songs after all,\" the album found its way out.The most immediately striking thing about this homage is how this socalled Maoist opera is significantly warmer and more of an even keel than the original. This is due largely to Hilsinger's insistence on playing everything on the album with a conscientious shunning of drum machines and keyboards of any sort. Still, all the guitar noises mimic the Eno treatments to a tee, which frees up the lyrics themselves to shine under Beatty's reading. Having worked with The Mekons' Jon Langford in the past, it's not too surprising that Beatty's voice evokes Sally Timms' radiance; she deftly replaces Eno's adenoidal, androgynous nasal delivery with a throatier resonance.The song titles now read like 50s film marquees from a parallel universe: A vague plot and character interactions surface on the grainy blackandwhite \"Burning Airlines\" and the nearcomedic march of \"Back in Judy's Jungle\". Who would be cast in the role of \"The Fat Lady of Limbourg\"? You can almost see the lead of \"The Great Pretender\" stagger away from the surrendered shape of Monica on the sand as if in some tragic end scene, the looping noise crescent as the ocean waves overtake him.\"Third Uncle\" unfortunately gets taken at a reggae shuffle here, undermining the paranoid pace of the original, and the ecstatic peaks of \"The True Wheel\" are leveled out by Beatty's toocalculated delivery. As the title track ebbs away, though, Eno's sentiment holds true: Beneath the cold machines and chinstroking theories that weighted the originals down lies more human heart than even its creator ever suspected. "}