{"label":" Gronland","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3949/homepage_large.25778c87.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Half Cousin","title":"The Function Room","text":" It's no secret: Music is best when it has a secret to keep. Often, the longer an album's treasures take to reveal themselves, the longer they take to wear thin. But a record can look good both from afar and under the microscope, as evidenced by Scottish collective Half Cousin's The Function Room. The album presents a trove of pleasantries off the bat, but its subtler treats are revealed only after a set of glaring entreaties that sludgy bass stomp that opens its first single, \"Country Cassette\", those affable acoustic guitar melodies, and a charming lofi aesthetic.The Function Room takes the foundsound aesthetic to a whole other level: Here, the band seems to have taken whatever random parts were lying around and made music from them (\"Country Cassette\" even enlists a sink as percussion). It's treacherous territory, to be sure, but Half Cousin pull it off convincingly, faltering only in the rare moments that they sacrifice melody to spotlight quirky instrumentation. Delightfully oddball without the heavyhandedness that often accompanies that rep, Half Cousin are capable rockers as well. \"Canned Laughter\" brings together the best of both worlds, scattering piecemeal effects and flourishes around a core of bawdy live drums; key are the deftly manipulated feedback swells part of the multitracked guitar part out of which the band builds a sundry but insistent rhythm. Exemplary of the record as a whole, the song is filled with subtle sweeps and jaunts throughout: tracks discreetly disappearing from one ear and reappearing in the other, multiple sounds strung linear to form a singular melody, and various other affectations pulled from a hefty sack of tricks. Half Cousin haul their sack reliably throughout The Function Room. Yes, these tracks are robust with melody and can rend hearts as readily as any of the artists on Devendra Banhart's contempo folk exposé Golden Apples of the Sun, but the band's greatest asset is their ability to pull sudden turns and drop nonsequiturs without ever inhibiting the flow of the album or jarring its fetching aesthetic. A stolid, Joyceian readover, spoken in thickest Scottish drawl, turns the downtrodden \"Mrs. Pilling\" even soggier before a radiant electric guitar and ascending vocal melody carry the song down a markedly sunnier path. Meanwhile, more straightforward folk tracks like \"Hindsight\" and \"Blue Ruin\" evoke the usual canonical suspects (Nick Drake, Leonard Cohen, Bert Jansch) while owing a substantial debt to a diverse array of modern artists (Beta Band, Beck, and Skygreen Leopards all come to mind). The album closes on a selfconscious note with a dirgeful, if rote, cover of The Beatles' \"Girl\". Half Cousin meet the song halfway, retaining its melody and structure while razing its originally unexotic instrumentation and replacing it with a kitchen sinkfull of accordions, theremins, clarinets, and pedal organs. A daunting track for any band to tackle, Half Cousin make the audacious choice to render it verbatim, succeeding in ways even The Beatles didn't, strikingly capturing and enhancing the psychedelic torpor of the original with novel instrumentation and a downcast, lugubrious performance. Under the auspices of a lesser band, the move might seem gimmicky or apologetic, but Half Cousin turn in a motley effort of incidental genius a modus operandi the band fit quite nicely. "}