{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3951/homepage_large.2361ba4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Homelife","title":"Guru Man Hubcap Lady","text":" Ninja Tune went looking for the legendary kitchen sink and found it in Homelife. Guru Man Hubcap Lady is an ingenious, overachieving experiment, a pushing away from the pack, a search for untrodden, unprecedented ground. The everevolving project of Manchester madman Paddy Steer, Homelife has lurked in the Ninja Tune dojo for years and still hasn't been pinned down to a formula, moving between leftfield disco jazz, digital torch song soul, and goony electronic funk. Surprisingly, in all its diffuse, foppish meandering, Guru Man leaves a sincere, wonderfully enigmatic impression, like an organic version of Wagon Christ's galactic travels as fingerpainted during a cannabisenhanced Advanced Jazz Band afterschool jam session. If playfulness is profound, then Homelife have spoken the Gospel. Steer fills out album's mix 'n' match eclecticism with a 15strong rotating cast that includes 808 State multiinstrumentalist Graham Massey on clarinet and saxophone and coconspirator Tony Burnside on guitar and vocals. A host of strings, keys, vocals, and cornucopia percussion keep Homelife's juicy heart beating, but Steer's intuitive, interwoven arrangements stitch it all together. The result is a kind of loopy, groovedrunk Frankenstein's monster that happily ricochets between the cerebral and the silly. The album's sequencing is shrewd, completing a graceful arc that literally starts with a bang and ends with a whimper. It all gets underway to the sound of distant fireworks that pepper the woozy, hornsmeared opener. Those lead right in to the ridiculous title track, with nearly indecipherable lyrics sung by what sound like Alvin & The Chipmunks' Swedish bebop cousins. Backed by tubthumping bass drums and greasy keys, and littered by shards of broken electronic bleeps, the title song sets the tone for the weirdness that follows. Well, almost. As weird as the song is, things immediately take a turn for the downright bizarre. The femalevocaled \"A Casa (The House)\" plays like the Tatooine Cantina Band doing Sun Ra and the Family Stoned before turning into a chime and banjo raga breakdown. Coursing along on Tony Burnside's casual vocals, \"Harder\" builds one of the most mesmerizing, headswinging, caughtyoudancing workouts I've heard all year. The song is five uproarious minutes of slick, fouronthefloor, blueeyed Afrodisco that culminates with wiry organ and banjo tickled by choppy guitar, maracas, and a Dumbosized bassline. It's hard to describe, probably harder for you to imagine, and impossible to sit still to. The whole disc dips in and out of dimensions, running through the spin cycle but never rinsing out its debauched, impeccable sense of adventure. Hazy ambient musings, Flamencoflavored balladry, junkyard jazz poetry, Spaghetti Western psychedelica, and tweaky IDM mathrock are all shuffled into Homelife's trick deck. And without sounding too fey, it does come together almost like magic loose but not sloppy, visionary but tangible, smart but not uptight. The emotional distance between the sassy Superfly string melody of \"Lowdell Is Missing\" and the loungey vocal caress of album closer \"Strangers\" is large, but the eclectic threesong transition that spans it is natural, logical, almost perfect. I often have a difficult time finding meaning in any work that's overtly fun, as if melancholy is the only path to enlightenment, but Homelife's crazy light reveals itself like a train. I've been hit. "}