{"label":" Arena Rock","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/3953/homepage_large.f7e7b587.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liam Singer","artist":"The Autumn Defense / Hem","title":"Birds, Beasts & Flowers EP","text":" Hem's 2001 release Rabbit Songs reaffirmed my faith in the amount of time and money I've invested in seeking out independent music a quest guided by the implicit promise that the perfect album might just be languishing on some tiny label's roster, heard by only a handful of ears. On a friend's glowing recommendation, I picked up Hem's debut LP and it found itself a permanent place in my listening rotation for the next few years. Not only is it a work of enduring craft but also an accomplishment of accessibility, embraced by an audience spanning a huge range of ages and tastes. Widely overlooked on its release, it grew through word of mouth and a small amount of press until finally being reissued on Dreamworks last year.Unfortunately, Hem's latest fulllength, Eveningland, trades in their chamberfolk sound for a decidedly Boston Pops meets Nashville sessions feel or, as bandleader Dan Messe has (positively) called it, \"countrypolitan.\" Oh well. Fans of a more strippeddown Hem can take small refuge in Birds, Beasts & Flowers, a split EP with Wilco bassist John Stirratt's project Autumn Defense in which the two bands alternate three tracks apiece. They both showcase sounds that gesture toward earlier American music, meeting halfway between the humbler side of Hem and ornate side of Autumn Defense.The album begins with a Radio Denmark version of Rabbit Songs highlight \"Half Acre\". Its pace is slowed, with piano and banjo intertwining around each other and the added orchestral accents of strings, timpani, and cymbal. Autumn Defense's \"Bluebirds Fall\" follows, a melodic, Zombieslike track accented with a distorted organ. That same 1960s pop tinge is also showcased on their \"You Know Where I Live\", which features a harpsichord and sunny harmonies. Hem offers an arrangement of one of Eveningland's better selections, the wistful loungecountry ballad \"Pacific Street\". The album closes with a piano and vibraphonedriven instrumental track from Autumn Defense, \"Mayday\", a piece that's wellarranged but lacks a strong melody.Birds, Beasts, & Flowers isn't a remarkable release. Both of these acts have a lot of potential (partly realized in Hem's first album) and are a step or two away from beautifully synthesizing a vast array of American music genres that are often hijacked by mediocre artists. But both are headed in directions that suggest they're taken with the silly Rolling Stone and Uncut quotes plastered on this EP's cover sticker Hem are \"sophisticated and sexy\" and Autumn Defense are \"comfort music for the soul.\" So perhaps I'm the one not getting it maybe what I see as promise, these bands view as an edge that needs muting. I hope not. At their best, they prove themselves capable of a fresh and moving take on welltrod territory. "}