{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3956/homepage_large.746b011f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Yuka Honda","title":"Eucademix","text":" It's been nearly 10 years since Cibo Matto dropped Viva! La Woman, but the recordings still prove the genius of two Japanese expats rocking sample racks, Russell Simins, and a reefer truck full of prime cut New York weird. There's no question about it: I still know my chicken. The duo of Yuka Honda and Miho Hatori only released one other LP as Cibo Matto, though they've both stayed visible in Manhattan's downtown scene. Programmer and producer Honda has been particularly active recently, issuing a solo album through Tzadik in 2002 and teaming with Boredoms' Yoshimi PWe for Flower With No Color a year later. Her first solo record, Memories Are My Only Witness, sprinkled fractured makeout music between choppy electronic programming and a little of Honda's former band's uniquely kicky whimsy, while the Yoshimi meetup though a dream collabo for some was gentle but somewhat meandering. Honda's second effort for Tzadik's Oracles series, Eucademix, is her strongest solo statement. The romanticism of both Memories Are My Only Witness and Cibo Matto's more introspective material is here particularly in the watery keys and daydream pace of the Airish \"Some Things Should Be Kept Unsaid\". But that track also has a midsection scored by the hot fuzz of an electric guitar, illustrating Honda's longstanding flair for odd assemblage. She's comfortable setting the distorted bass and screeching, layered solos of \"When the Monkey Kills\" next to \"Limoncello\"'s detached hiphop beats and keening violin sample, and supporting both with the contemplative, nearly new age piano piece \"Seed of Seed of Peach\". Opener \"Humming Song (Alone Together)\" is an opposite facet, weaving wordless female vocals into a pillowy, headacheinduced lullaby. Like most Tzadik releases, Eucademix is experimental, but it never turns its back on the listener. It even rewards those who are still lying awake thinking about a Cibo Matto reunion (um...) with \"I Dream About You\", on which Honda's expartner Miho Hatori provides vocals. With its clopping, combatbootsonsubwaysteps beat, delicate guitar echoes, genderspecific chorus, and Hatori's whispery sultry vocals, the song would fit nicely on the second half of Viva! La Woman. \"The embrace of darkness makes me feel all right,\" Hatori playfully coos, \"when the beat takes over me...\" It would've been nice to hear a few more songs with Hatori, but the mostly instrumental Eucademix doesn't disappoint. From the plaintive acoustic guitars and shuffling beats of \"Parallel\" through \"Twirling Batons in My Head\"'s tense, modified techno, Honda and her fellow instrumentalists (which include Marc Ribot and former Cibo Matto drummer Timo Ellis) never makes us crave more vocal guest shots. And, like most of Honda's work, this album has flashes of humor: \"Why Are You Lying to Your Therapist?\" asks the title of one spacey, wrongspeed guitar solo track, while \"Spooning With Jackknife\" is a perfect name for the closing cut's stuttering percussion triggers and disassembled blasts of feedback. Honda displays an impressive range of experimentation on Eucademix, but it's her talents as a programmer, player, and producer that really sells the album. Honda's music will roam stylistically, but it always hovers playfully above what most other producers are doing. "}