{"label":" Triple Five Soul","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/3960/homepage_large.a4833a00.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Hollertronix","title":"T5 Soul Sessions, Volume 2","text":" After all the $20 Soul Jazz comps, $30 Ze reissues, $100 twelves, $500 Taschens, $1,000 VHS TV Party bootlegs, $10,000 graffiti, and way pricier fetiaesthetifetishized gear they say I have the choice of wearing or marrying or snorting up my butt seriously, designer leg warmers? Come on I can't help but resent this latest 80s punkfunk pillaging. The LES/EV spirit is stamping ART on poverty and selling it to suckers like me as \"the influential underground\" whose influence today is, if anything is to their credit, masterful selfprophecy. Now America's onestop thuggedout sweats shop is handing out this most killerest cheatsheet to the 80s mutant music underground for free! robbing the shit of its most fundamental irony, trading the weathered taxi driver confessions of Clinton Street gang wars and permanent arson for kewl instore disco beats and a people's history glorified unwittingly and out of context. My mouth, therefore an error. So what if they're a bit late to the fray, Hollertronix's Diplo and Low B make up for their unshocking entrance with perfect fascism and a generous, wellmixed tracklist. The disc's We Were There liners and cutesy CDDB joke (the mix dates back to 1985 hardy har) could have been throwaways; instead Hollertronix make good on the conceit, geniusing the mix levels for uncanny vinyl reproduction fidelity and never exceeding the technical capabilities contemporary to the music they're handling. Maybe not the most compelling MO for new bands, kids hawking ESG riffs without a hitch, etc., but Hollertronix's coroner hand presentation is the mix's biggest feather no bright white spotlights, no museum lines, all chalk and putrefaction. At this point my sense of what's 80s underground/what's not is pretty damn skewed, but Siouxsee's \"Happy House\" is on here, so is that Sexual Harrassment song \"If I Gave You A Party\" that Syrup covered for 2003's Sound Of Young New York comp, so is Arthur Russell's \"Bang\", and for whatever reason there's a Konk song on the mix too (though thankfully it's the least worthless Konk song). Since the mix never purports to be a best of punkfunk or even a punkfunk primer, Hollertronix do indulge themselves on both sides of the blur (Talking Heads, and later, apparently, Landslide's \"It's A Party\"). 11 tracks, 29 actual songs, no tracklisting the mix aims for mood where others have aimed for completism, probably the biggest and most important indulgence of them all here. Legwarmers: that means fewer annoying iPod track turnovers on your way to Atrium. "}