{"label":" DSA","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3977/homepage_large.89a24a5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Keiji Haino","title":"Black Blues (Acoustic) / (Electric)","text":" If you've caught Keiji Haino live, you've likely seen the old master build a sturdy wall of sound and look pretty fucking amazing while doing it. The 50something Japanese musician's a legend in the noise/improv scene, and though his hair's taken on gray streaks, he seems otherwise ageless in his trademark black leather and black sunglasses. Often pigeonholed as a shadowy guitar screamer, Haino claims to have mastered over 80 noisemakers including digital theremin, air synth, hurdygurdy, wave drum, all sorts of percussion, and various indigenous instruments. His inclusive aesthetic blows between minimalism, folk, medievalism, and sublime drone; he also leads his own cover band, Aihiyo, and the psychrock power duo Fushitsusha. Comfortable alone or with an avant posse, he's collaborated with Ruins, Faust, Boris, Charles Gayle, Merzbow, Jim O'Rourke, and Derek Bailey, among others. On his most recent pair of enigmatic recordings, Haino keeps to himself, showcasing his vocal prowess alongside often surprisingly clean, mostly processed guitar. Focusing on AfricanAmerican blues, Black Blues is a pair of albums, though they aren't packaged together. It's unclear why Haino didn't opt for a double disc, but fans will want to hear both. The tracklists are identical and the only difference in the packaging are reversed/mirrored covers. Musically, one's quiet (\"acoustic\"), the other loud (\"electric\"). If you need help in the store, print out the following and bring it with you: On the \"acoustic\" version Haino's looking to the left and on the \"electric\" version he's looking to the right. Keeping them apart's fine (the confusion's kinda great), but it's also worthwhile experiencing the loud and soft in interaction, observing how intentionality can morph and then reshred even a recognizable standard like Blind Lemon Jefferson's \"See That My Grave Is Kept Clean\". Whether enjoyed together or singularly, the albums make great use of silence and space (the electric in a more jarring, less pin drop manner). On the \"acoustic\" collection, Haino's spacious playing brings to mind Loren Connors (a past collaborator) and New Zealander Roy Montgomery. It can get very quiet: Parts of 13minute \"Black Eyes\" are so immensely whispered, the stereo needs to be pinned as high as possible to catch the ambience. Vocally, Haino's a psychedelic solitaire exhaling black and white. In \"The Town in Black Fog\" he whispers evocatively into your ear, a guitar strumming in the distance. Some tracks aren't as secretive: Everything's upfront on \"I Don't Want to Know\", a ballad with chords that drift across into each other no matter how carefully they're spaced. Haino's voice is often evocative, even pretty. The tour de force is the previously mentioned \"See That My Grave Is Kept Clean\". (As on a few of the tracks, the guitar doesn't sound especially \"acoustic.\") His voice registers as near falsetto while he lethargically strums; when Haino brings it down a notch, it's amazing to witness one of our noisiest guitarists turns out mothwing ethereality. When he \"plugs in\" for set two, an angry demon emerges in a different part of the graveyard. Seconds into \"Black Petal\"'s opening chords there are already stab wounds; eventually Haino unleashes absolutely anguished screams. The electro \"Black Eyes\"'s three minutes briefer than its acousticminded sister; Haino knows how to play loud softly, so its guitars are layered and sustained but subtle. He approaches Mecca Normal slashing on the catchy \"I Don't Want To Know\", which is as rock as it gets. And the best? Again, it's \"See That My Grave Is Kept Clean\". This take explodes with an anguished vocal aneurysm and deliberate, reverberating guitar waves. It delivers a fitting purification rite before a highpitched swath of feedback punk slaps the finale. To say Black Blues are mysterious records is an understatement. That they aren't for everyone is redundant. The vicious loudness delivers a few wonders of texture, raw rasp, and might be recognized first in the crowd due to its forceful attitude. But, really, it's the delicate acoustic movement subtle, enormous, secretive, inaudible that best channels and transmogrifies classic blues into exorcism. "}