{"label":" Saddle Creek","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/398/homepage_large.ae5daef7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Azure Ray","title":"New Resolution EP","text":" Although it only contains three tracks two which are versions of the title song Azure Ray's New Resolution EP is as subtle as it is brittle, and as gracefully measured as anything the duo has released to date. Taken from last year's Hold on Love, \"New Resolution\" was that album's sultry stinkeye. It never explains why hearts are racing and records are skipping, but its insistent, glitchy tumble and husky, lingering vocals don't require logic for their simplistic beauty especially not with the song's sentiment wrapped in the shadows of keening strings and the splotchy bump of Eric Bachmann's production. Appropriately, the song's video, included on this disc, skirts the issue while skewering it peripherally. Here, we find Orenda Fink and Maria Taylor strolling in their slips on the cracked yellow pavement of a Nebraska high noon, holding hands. Suddenly, there rises an army of the mod. The slicksuited and rearviewmirrored roll their Vespas in formation toward the Azure Ray nexus. They circle; Fink and Taylor parry. The phalanx splits and reforms, yet it's clear who wears the pants in this dance, and Azure Ray end up leading the fancy gang back into town. This is what they do, these two. Their music is halting, like each breath expelled is at a premium. But it's also fiercely confident and cocksure: Arrangements tearing swatches from southern gothic, shadowy electronica and achy bedroom indie are all stitched perfectly. The second track, \"Drinks We Drank Last Night\", appears in gentle homerecorded form, and couldn't be further from the corrupted Dido/Lamb mashup of \"New Resolution\". But naturally, it's just as powerful. The harmonies coalesce like dandelion dust, fragile stems rooted in spidery electric guitar and cresting electronics. And if this isn't enough saleable content for those matching Prada with yard sale tutus, New Resolution concludes with a remix of its title track by Dntel mastermind and Postal Service principal Jimmy Tamborello. As it turns out, he's up to the task, tweaking and accelerating the track's mechanistic bottom end to elongate the linger in Fink and Taylor's phrasing. His synthpop dropins conjure images of animated Norwegians crashing into real life hallways, like ad music for cars not yet invented. "}