{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/3979/homepage_large.4832607d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Luke Haines","title":"Luke Haines Is Dead","text":" The most interesting figures in any movement are often the ones who turn up on the fringes, and Britpop was no exception. In an era of tabloid spectacle and the often wanton pursuit of superstardom, the Auteurs were something unique: Their music had the melodic grace of the best Britpop, but was far less ostentatious, and their leader, Luke Haines, filled his songs with caustic sarcasm and brutality. In spite of a Mercury Prize nomination for their debut album, 1993's New Wave, the Auteurs always remained something of a cult act, their critical acclaim outpacing their sales. Haines sort of perversely embraced his outsider role, naming his Baader Meinhof side project for a 1980s European terrorist organization and elevating scorn for the record business literally to an art form with his Songwriting Genius of Luke Haines & the Auteurs album, in which he recast some of his most popular songs as almost unlistenably syrupy orchestral easylistening tunes to fulfill a contractual obligation for a greatest hits compilation. Since the dissolution of the Auteurs, Haines has had greater success with his Black Box Recorder project, which includes John Moore and Sarah Nixey, but this new threedisc set doesn't go there, instead focusing on material developed with the Auteurs, Baader Meinhof, and under his own name. There is more than three hours of music here, and it goes almost without saying that anyone who's not already a devoted fan of the man has no business starting with this disc. There's a huge wealth of great tracks among these 63 cuts, as well as a lot of variety the material ranges from sweeping, heavily orchestrated pop to despondent ballads about class war to electrotinged funkpop and scorching rock but I'd recommend newcomers begin where Haines himself began, with New Wave. Devotees will find plenty of value here in the unreleased cuts, Bsides, and BBC sessions, though it's unfortunate that amongst the few (pretty lame) remixes that pop up that nothing from the Auteurs vs. Muziq is included. Muziq made no secret of his disdain for the material he was remixing, and it made for some interesting work (Haines takes a humorous shot at it and Muziq himself in the liners, in which he also rates most of his own albums five stars out of five). Most album cuts are presented in some sort of alternate form, be it an alternate mix or a slightly different single version, though no one who would actually buy this is going to be completely taken by surprise. Working it down to two discs by excising the tracks fans already know by heart might have been advisable, but I'm sure Haines had his own internally logical reasons for going with a threedisc set. Judging by the nine BBC session recordings here, I'd say it might be worth releasing an entire album of just those, as almost every one trumps the original studio version particularly the live recording of Now I'm a Cowboy's \"New French Girlfriend\". The sessions brush up comfortably alongside nearly a whole album's worth of previously unreleased songs (a few marked \"unreleased\" are just slightly different versions of old album tracks, for instance a spedup, less T. Rexish \"Bailed Out\"). A few are throwaways, like \"Couple Dancing\" little more than a couple minutes of a string section warming up but others such as the funky clavinet crawl of \"ESP Kids\" and the throbbing disco of \"Essex Boot Boys\" definitely deserved a public airing. If anything held back Haines' vision during the 90s, it was probably his own very limited singing voice, which very often constricts to a gravelly whisper. Having Sarah Nixey around to handle the vocals is probably the principle reason Black Box Recorder managed a bigger foothold in the popular consciousness. Indeed, over three full hours of listening to his voice can get a little old, but I don't get the impression that this is meant to be listened to in one go like that anyway. If anything, it's a gift for all the people who stuck with him even through the most frustratingly obtuse phases of his career, and even during passages where it feels like something of a mishmash, it's a rewarding look at an undeniably great songwriter. "}