{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4002/homepage_large.08b71ab9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Susie Ibarra Trio","title":"Songbird Suite","text":" John Zorn's Tzadik label works with some of the best improvisers in the world, but it often focuses on their work as composers. Musicians who routinely play a whole set without a written note can turn around and make albums where their writing dictates the flow of performance working in a mix of improv and composition that aims to be more refined and maybe more highbrow than free jazz. Susie Ibarra, the star drummer who has collaborated on highintensity jazz gigs with David S. Ware and William Parker (as well touring with Yo La Tengo and adding percussive effects to their And Then Nothing Turned Itself InsideOut), has recorded two albums on Tzadik that showcase her spacious writing. Her second and most recent album, Songbird Suite, uses an allstar trio (plus guest Ikue Mori) to perform a set of austere and beautiful pieces. Ibarra kicks off the album by taking the trio out for a spin. She's joined by Craig Taborn on piano, keyboards, and electronics, and Jennifer Choi on violin. On the straightforward \"Azul,\" Taborn and Choi's solos demonstrate their unique approaches. Taborn, who made his name with James Carter and has stolen the show in several avantjazz combos, demonstrates why he's one of the most inventive and fun pianists out there: his solo is rigorous but joyful, busy but methodical. It churns with enthusiastic clusters of sound. Choi, a classically trained violinist, is aggressively virtuosic: she swoops around the melody like a canary tied to a firecracker, working an array of sounds from her instrument. Ibarra doesn't showcase her own playing until her drum feature \"Trance #1\": her performance is reflective and full of silence, with Asiansounding percussion complementing her drumkit. These players are as attentive to sound and texture as to the notes, and Ibarra's compositions give them a variety of frameworks. The title track, the album's centerpiece, lets the trio explores open space: Taborn begins with quiet, sonarlike electronics, and Choi and Ibarra ease in with stark splashes of color. Taborn has rarely played piano and electronics on the same album, let alone on the same song (as he does for \"Flower After Flower\"); this album is a great example of how expansive his palette has become. Choi's statements and Ibarra's interjections complement Taborn to make a complete sound world so complete that when they include an actual birdsong recording on the track, the effect is clumsily literal. It's an equal trio on the slow numbers, but on the busier tunes, Taborn and Ibarra become a steadier rhythm section behind Choi's violin. \"Nocturne\" starts with another soaring, fiery violin solo propelled by Taborn and Ibarra. The squeaking extremes of her high register give way to an eerie, distant sound in the quiet section, and then a jittery conclusion where each player creates arch, precise lines. Ikue Mori, a Tzadik regular and a leading improviser on laptop computer, plays on three tracks an improvised duet with Ibarra, and two group pieces. Mori's burbling, percussive samples add to the slow burn of \"Flower After Flower\" and \"Trance #3.\" Her sound is busier and slightly less compelling than the other three musicians', but she adds an interesting commentary, and her duet with Ibarra, \"Trance #2,\" is a short, fascinating soundscape of otherworldly percussion sounds. With this concise album just fortyfive minutes for nine tunes the trio thoroughly explores Ibarra's writing. Songbird Suite exemplifies what Tzadik's composerfocused imprints aim for: an album of new music that shows the best collaboration between an openminded composer and sympathetic improvisers. "}