{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4014/homepage_large.a2607912.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Ida","title":"Heart Like a River","text":" The simile in this album title is appropriate. Ida's spare, mostly acoustic songs move with the slow yet ineluctable flow of a river; there are no rapids and few eddies, just the steady motion of currents and occasional crosscurrents. The band members are slow moving as well: this is their first album since 2000's Will You Find Me (and its samesession partner The Braille Night), which seemed to portend something like a career. After five years and countless solo and side projects, the band has reconvened as a trio: Daniel Littleton, Elizabeth Mitchell, and Karla Schickele. Heart Like a River features numerous guests including Cecilia Littleton, original member Rick Lassiter, Jean Cook, and Dominique Davison but these three form the core, and their voices combine as elegantly and dreamily as ever. \"I'm so lucky to be here/ Just to have you near,\" Littleton sings on \"599\", a sentiment clearly addressed to his bandmates.Heart Like a River wastes no time picking up more or less where Will You Find Me and The Braille Night left off. \"Laurel Blues\" wakes up with a gently plucked guitar and Mitchell's caress of a voice, eventually joined by Littleton and Schickele. There's a squall of guitar feedback, but nothing breaks the shimmering surface. While they feature piano, strings, drums, and even a little radio static, these eleven songs that follow rarely stray from this acoustic folk template, even as they set Ida's gentle eddies against a musical geometry of shoegazer spirals and lines of droning feedback. These songs are, unsurprisingly, understated in the vein of Low or Mojave 3, but their quietness too often works against them: The lull of the music occasionally dampers the melodies and mutes the songs' immediacy, rendering them politely unobtrusive and undemanding. Likewise, the songwriting possesses a hushed timidity that can be intriguing, matched as it is to the evocation of people who are mere observers in their own lives. In \"The Details\", Mitchell sings, \"You could just take my hand/ You could stand up for me,\" leaving it to the song's subject to take action. But this passiveaggressive tendency becomes frustrating as the lyrics begin to sound apologetic, as on Schickele's \"What Else Could I Do\". In a descending melody reminiscent of Aimee Mann, she sings, \"If this is your idea of love/ What else could I do?\" even though the point is that she is doing absolutely nothing and doing it very patiently. What could have been a kaleidoscope of conflicting emotions anger, dread, selfloathing instead settles for a monochrome of resignation. If Ida's sound is like a river, the emotions the band conveys are simply stagnant. "}