{"label":" Hub City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4017/homepage_large.ffad232b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Iditarod","title":"The River Nektar","text":" The sun breaks low on the Rhode Island horizon: it's a cold, snowcovered day, but a man breaks the still silence with a listlessly strummed chord on an acoustic guitar. A woman slowly begins to mumble. The noise threatens to rise to a boil, to cohere, to build into a perfect expression of icy beauty, but it never does. It goes nowhere, limply plodding through a lackluster haze of underproduction. Meanwhile, deep in the Alaskan wilderness, a sled dog sheds a single tear in the snow. So, welcome to the bottom of Pitchfork's review column! There are days when decent releases wind up down here simply by default bad timing, mostly but today is not one of those days. Obviously, not everything that crosses our desks is a work of unqualified genius, but every so often, a disc so encroaches on the gag reflex that it becomes necessary to issue a warning. So, I'm just going to pull out some of our patented critical orange cones and yellow crossing tape and put up a big barrier around this reissue in the hopes that you won't make the same mistake I did. Did you catch that? This is a reissue, meaning that at different points in time, two different labels felt this album was worth your time. This is Iditarod's 1998 debut, back in stores for God knows what reason. Excellent for beer coasters and torturing people with perfect pitch, this album manages to simultaneously give ambient, slowcore and folk a bad name. And the good folks at BlueSanct have even tacked on nine bonus tracks, nearly doubling the length of the album. Guys, you shouldn't have. No, I mean you really shouldn't have. Making it twice as long just makes this album twice as bad, though, truth be told, the bonus tracks are better than the original...material.  Questions abound: Is the spelling of Nektar in the title a reference to the German prog band? Is it cool to cover Brian Eno even if your cover doesn't do him any justice? If you took the nice acoustic guitar part from \"Providence\" and mixed it with the weird noise from \"The Lorelei\", might it add up to something interesting? Why couldn't there be more songs like the dark acoustic guitar instrumental (and bonus track) \"Move\"? What is the sound of one hand clapping? Is there anything on TV?  In 1998, Iditarod were basically a duo comprising guitarist Jeffrey Alexander and vocalist Carin Wagner, and sweet Lord did they make some boring music. Alexander must have slept with his guitar an assumption I base on the fact that it sounds as if he's playing it in his sleep. Aside from the fact that his guitar is sometimes slightly out of tune, he's not technically horrific, it's just that his chosen idiom keeps him uninteresting and repetitive. Wagner's trembling, uncertain mumble on the other hand, that can't even be described as quasimelodic pitch and key were discoveries not yet in the offing, apparently. It's like listening to a folk duo warm up before recording, something I doubt is a thrilling prospect to most listeners.  A couple of tracks add some interesting textures, in the form of scraped guitar strings or singing bowls, and their subsequent releases have thankfully moved in this direction, but their barelyconsidered debut is just excruciating. Huskies and their mushers deserve better tribute than this you definitely deserve better than this. And George Washington deserves to have his crumpled green effigy exchanged for better than this. By and large, I think the recent trend toward reissuing every note ever played by anyone has enormous potential for good, frequently digging up forgotten sessions and lost albums that deserve to be heard. But there is a point where it goes too far certain bands' baby steps just aren't worth revisiting. I'm grasping for balance here Iditarod really have improved since this album first came out, and there are hints of neat things to come here and there, the best of which is the vaguely medieval textures and scraped and blown instruments that close out \"Mariner\". But a few merely curious moments and then only as harbingers cannot salvage this thing, a mostly shapeless lump of sparse almostfolk, almostantifolk that will frustrate your ears and have you begging for one fullyrealized song. "}