{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/402/homepage_large.c67724c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Archigram","title":"Crydamoure Presents Waves II","text":" In his review of The Rapture's marvelous Echoes yesterday, Ryan Schreiber took to task rock's nofun wing, arguing that indieland is experiencing a slow loosening of its staunch restrictions on enjoying music that engages any of the parts of one's body located below the neck. His point isn't simply about whether it's okay to dance at shows, but the recognition of a noticeable shift away from attitudes that automatically regard rhythm as subordinate to other quantitative musical values. In recent years, such attitudes pushed the beliefs that it was frivolous and fleeting for rock to engage with current technology or digital production, or that you can't have a good time listening to music unless your enjoyment is soaked in a million layers of irony. Even most of the bigname stars of leftfield rock such as Wayne Coyne, Björk, The Beta Band, or Radiohead sorted out that not much of that was true years ago, of course, but a lot of people in indieland are slow learners. For those riveted by Schreiber's stump who like the good oldfashioned dancing the clubbing kind comes the second compilation of underground house from the Crydamoure label, cofounded in 1996 by Daft Punk's GuyManuel de HomemChristo and fellow Parisian producer Eric Chédeville. Like 2000's Waves, this compiles the label's recent 12inches, this time arranged by upandcomers Archigram (Parisian duo Jean Morris and Nicolas Archyp). This may be French house, but don't expect either the more popstructured works from Daft Punk or crossover discohouse such as semirecent European hits from Modjo, Spiller, Tomcraft, or JeanJacques Smoothie. Not that it strays into AfroBrazilian territory, either Waves II is an exuberant, mesmerizing set of classic French house and filter disco, built expressly for the clubs. It's therefore potentially exhausting for those who tend to find listening to this sort of thing a monolithic chore. The record's hypnotic rhythmic bliss is accented by some welltimed inclusions of guitars, strings, and horns. Vocals are kept to a minimum, highlighted by the breezy oohooh's that float along Le Knight Club's delicate, highpitched \"Nymphae Song\", Archigram's electrohouse cover of The Stooges' \"I Wanna be Your Dog\" (\"Doggystyle\"), and Crydajam's \"If You Give Me the Love That I Want\", the set's one fullthroated work. Every track was recorded within the past three years, many of them provided by the label boss' themselves: One or both them helped construct nine of the 15 songs. Archigram paces the set very well, mixing and dropping in all of their releases to date and showing up the label heads in the process. Archigram's contributions are highlighted by \"Carnaval\", which nestled at the heart of the set next to Le Knight Club's \"Soul Bells\" is where the mix reaches toward greatness. A soaring, layered filter disco track, it blends delicate changes of pitch and washes of fuzzbox guitar over a thumping 4/4 beat.Waves II starts with nods to early more traditional, Salsoulinspired house before segueing into tracks with more contemporary identifiers such as the liberal nods to nuelectro and even the use of electric guitar. On the whole, it's a stark contrast and a solid reimagination of the genre, one that includes everything except the breezy, blissedout Super Discount/Air model that in the U.S. was once synonymous with French house (the roots of which are on glorious display on Motorbass' recently reissued Pansoul). Waves II doesn't come close to matching the genrestretching heights of de HomemChristo's Daft Punk and, besides, it's a different approach to the sound altogether but it does provide a handy collection of the work of one of underground house's most vital labels. "}