{"label":" iMusic","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4018/homepage_large.5dc2be2f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Eric Idle","title":"The Rutland Isles","text":" Around the time Monty Python and the Holy Grail came out, it seemed as if the members of the titular troupe could do no wrong and that the well of comedic genius might very well flow to the end of time. A string of diminishing films and the demise of Monty Python itself disappointed quite a few, but since its participants were still alive and kicking, so were the hopes of their fans. Eric Idle, along with John Cleese, stood out particularly, and Idle's work on the TV special, The Rutles: All You Need Is Cash, showed that there were enough good ideas left in his head to keep the faithful tuning in. Idle then pulled a John Lennon, appearing brilliant in group work, and briefly so after going solo only to punish diehards with an unbroken stream of mediocrity thereafter not least of which came during his shortlived stint on the U.S. sitcoms Nearly Departed and Suddenly Susan. Now he's added another dubious chapter to his legacy with the album, The Rutland Isles. Posing as a brief excerpt from host Nigel Spasm's 168part documentary on the namesake islands, Rutland Isles also seems to pose as something related to The Rutles, which it is not. In actuality, it's a rather tepid musicandcomedy record from a man who stands shamelessly beside Steve Martin and Robin Williams in the LoveMeBecauseIUsedToBeFunny Club. Merrie Olde national treasure though he may be, Idle never comes close to justifying his continuing existence with The Rutland Isles. Worse: he traces that sadly familiar line washedup comedians can't seem to avoid. Though this album isn't as bad as hearing a formerly respectable comedian like Robert Klein tell flaccid jokes about O.J. and John Bobbitt years after they were deemed exhausted by the lowliest nightclub hack, it does reveal Idle's regression into some terribly cheap humor. See if you can spot the gag in the following track titles: \"Penis Fish\", \"Gay Animal Song\", \"Muff Diving\", and \"Homo SemiErectus\". Give up? Here's a hint: they're about sex, and they're as obvious as can be, with \"Gay Animal Song\" sticking out like a tasteless, derivative thumb. It's not too hard to understand why Idle resorted to such reliable topics, though. Not much else makes a decent stab for attention. On the island of Paranoia, says our host, people are prone to saying, \"Look out behind you,\" though certainly not so often or so expectantly as Idle. Another gem is found in \"Killing for God\", a song that bravely breaks comedy's long silence on the hypocrisy of religion. Yet even if the contents frequently fall short of anything that could safely be called a mark, the crumbling legend behind The Rutland Isles should be given credit for one thing: spoofing those pompous BBC documentaries. It's just what this world needs. "}