{"label":" No Karma","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4023/homepage_large.725c9659.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dan Kilian","artist":"IfiHadAHiFi","title":"Ones and Zeroes","text":" The members of IfiHadAHiFi go by the names Noise Lesion, Dr. Awkward, Mr. Alarm, and Yale Delay. Let the record show, they're crazy for palindromes. It's odd that they revere such a balanced form of wordplay, though their sound sprawls in all directions, a cacophony that attempts to dance. Let me throw out some band combinations: Bis and Trans Am. Robert Smith and the Happy Mondays. Grandaddy, Sonic Youth, and the B52's. Brilliance, mess and mud. But what IfiHadAHiFi sounds most like is a louder, bitchier Clinic. They're not as good, and they're sloppier, but they muster the same excitement. \"The All Tied Up,\" Ones and Zeroes' opening track, begins with a particularly Clinical feel, with its drumrolls and muted synthesizers, and a guitar that introduces a clanking funk. But this band is both more conventional and more allovertheplace. While Clinic gives the impression that anything can happen, IfiHadAHiFi's aesthetic announces that everything will happen, all the time. Almost martial callandresponse chants and whoops are buried under perpetually spinning synth squiggles, raucous guitars and rock/funk rhythms. The sound buzzes with layers, with the layers sometimes losing out to the buzz as the recording process is overwhelmed. \"The All Tied Up\" flows directly into \"(This is) The New Science,\" one of the cleanest tracks, and the one that should be the model for what the band does henceforth. A synth whirls by like a fan flying off its axle, its blades made of singing swords. A succession of chants and the ubiquitous \"woohoo's\" build to the title refrain. Chaos slowly dominates as the band sings assertive bababbalabba's until a wash of noise overtakes them. The third track is the first mistake. All the layers and chaos are pushed down under a kitschy cliché: an old announcer's voice describing rudimentary dance technique. It's an awful choice one that similarly mars \"TanguskaElectro,\" a tune about the great inventor Tesla's attempt to create a death ray. Singing about a death ray is sufficient; having some cornball announcer tell us what the song we can no longer hear is about is egregiously wrong. It's the kind of move that makes me less forgiving of the muddiness. (In the album credits, mixing is listed as by \"consensus,\" either a bad technician with a bad showbiz name, or more likely, a horrible way to mix an album. \"Make my part louder!\") \"One Happy Pussycat\" plays its vocals, if not everything else, at a slower speed, with not much else to balance the track. \"I just want to love you, baby,\" the singer croaks. It sounds like the creepy voice at the end of The Virgin Suicides soundtrack getting delusions of Barry White, or like failing batteries on a walkman. But for all its mistakes, the whirling madness of most of these songs is undeniable. This is the other IDM: Insane Dance Music. Instead of shaking it to processed slices of digital glory, people should be staggering around in confusion, their minds disabled by the very live sound this band makes. Still, if the band could clean up their sound a little and avoid the overdubbed announcer guys, they could stand to be an important band. Or at least a lot of fun. "}