{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4027/homepage_large.3ff5784d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Ryoji Ikeda","title":"Op.","text":" Recently, the mouse problem at my apartment has gotten out of control. They run up the walls and crawl into my bird's cage to eat seeds, nibble through unopened loaves of Orowheat, and most heinous of all, they ate out the crotch of my roommate's old panties. Forgoing all the glue traps and classic springloaded devices, we opted instead for ultrasonic devices to drive out the rodents, and as you shuffle into the kitchen now for that latenight nibbling, you can hear its subsonic pulsing through your head: deetdeetdeetdeet. So when the newest Ryoji Ikeda CD came in the mail, I figured it'd free one more room of the house from these pests, as his past oeuvre laid similar sonic matrices throughout the acoustic spaces of the room, sometimes clearing it, other times hypnotizing it. +/ was an instant classic of edgeofperception phenomena, frequencies being felt more than heard as their components vacillated in and out of the range of the human ear, destabilizing the crystals within and altering their audible nature as the listener's position changed in relation to the stereo. Matrix was scalpelsharp sine waves and similarly minded clinical clicks on two separate CDs. But hopes for holefree laundry sunk considerably when I read the fine print of this release, which states: \"No electronic sounds used.\" I could imagine the mizzle of little teeth through the walls as the CD started to spin, and although the opening seconds could fool you, this is not only a completely live instrumental affair, but it's all composed for strings, executed by the Musiques Nouvelles Ensemble, as well as a Japanese string quartet at the New National Theatre in Tokyo. \"Op.1\", segmented into four movements, is scored for nonet, although its austerity would never reveal so many players without the acknowledgements. Strings resound in single file, before being bowed into different laminal contexts with a sympathetic relation to the other entities. Ikeda's compositional attention is as an alembic, distilling all players into the true physical sound of their rosined bows on the strings, and the auras emitted from each string the attack, sustain, and decay works individually and then in combination. The first two movements are stunning, as the violins, violas, and cellos swell with a deliberate asceticism, making achingly slow passes over their strings, as disembodied as headlights in the absolute darkness of highway night driving, glowing singularly yet creating a chain of luminous entities in ensemble. This is not unlike the Doppler effect of +/, whose observed nature was dependent on subjective factors such as speaker setup or whether the disc was heard on headphones and at what volume. That phenomenon is relegated to the music itself now, not in how it transmits to the listener's ear. By the third movement, the violins and violas are passing like ships in the night, the double bass thudding against their hulls as if to mark their dimensional presence. The spatial destabilization is similar to the late works of Morton Feldman, not in terms of scale or chromatic problem solving, but in its subtle outlining of the void in which it all hovers, like Sonar describing that which encases it. Isolated, each instrument is made to resonate or fluctuate much like an electronic tone in the studio, and it's in merger that the actual physical nature of the sound becomes more readily apparent. What serves as the greatest hurdle of Op. is a problem many contemporary composers (especially those using technology) face when working with more classical instruments that carry hundreds of years worth of historical weight within their sounds: How do you recontextualize these instruments to where they express something in a new manner? Or in Ikeda's case, where his previous electronic compositions drew so much attention to sound's physical occupation of the air and how it reacts to the placement of the ear, what is he going to express, emotionally, melodically, or structurally, with these scored string ensembles, be they quartets or trios? With the arrival and passing of two versions of \"Op.2\", apparently not too much, I'm afraid, aside from how interesting these instruments sound as they slide past each other over time. Sections of Op. remain fascinating, distilled into a new acoustic context that still reveals the audio essence Ikeda has made his own over ten years, but it remains on the surface of the sounds only, not to what resonates and connects it all underneath. One could also marvel just at how the bow moves on, say, Bach's Unaccompanied Cello Suites or even Xenakis' scores for the Arditti Quartet, but there's also an essence beyond mere physicality. As I begin to discern the high squeal of bus brakes outside or the incessant pulsations of the electric pest repellent already plugged in as they fuse with and then secede from Ikeda's latest compositions, I keep thinking that by refusing his electronic past for this compositional project, he might have missed the pointillism. "}