{"label":" Shitkatapult","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4028/homepage_large.0a646c16.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Anders Ilar","title":"Everdom","text":" There was a certain moment circa 1991 when, immersed and blissfully lost in The KLF Chill Out for the first time, a train outside my window suddenly began to barrel and cry as it passed through. As if in sympathy, so did my stereo, as the disc began to echo this outside sound with its own glissando of trains pulling through washes of keyboards and pedal steel, while somewhere in the miasma Elvis mumbled through the floorboards. It was then I realized not only the power of ambient music, but what it meant to make a music that could adapt to any and all sounds outside itself, something amoebic that could also swallow everything else. So when the coughs of my living room guest started to synch up with the fifth track of the first fulllength from Swede Anders Ilar, I knew he must have been down with that early nineties school of thought, making his heavilydelayed electronics into something like a clear, deep golden broth that could hold all sorts of other sounds in suspension. A track like \"Rare Islands\" shows this connection to the decade previous, as Ilar lifts some of Aphex Twin's early wind chimes, and you can hear them mellifluously clang as he steals away ever so slowly. \"Coastline\" crackles to life with symphonic swells of bass, the crisp drums disappearing in rolling waves before coming back up to the surface. A lone strand of piano sustains throughout, vibrating beneath the radio static that surrounds it, keeping it afloat. \"Make Believe\" builds slowly, using a simple repeating pattern that scatters dubby debris about each step. Three minutes in, we happen upon a standard house beat, an odd discovery amid this snowy nowhere. In the distance, picturesque, grandiose melodies ring out, far enough away to be almost imagined, yet drawing your attention from the yawning thumps that stretch before you. The mistitled \"Illusion of a Summerbreeze\" instead conjures up winter and stuffy heads, combining a softpalate tickle with postnasal drip percussion as an odd wheezing hack darts through the mix. It's slightly annoying, but as the cold medicine goes to work over its ten minutes, its codeine sway makes operating heavy machinery (like CD players) inadvisable, better left to run themselves. It collides with the similarly medicated \"December Haze\", downshifting soundforms to the point of pure, forelobefogging bass rumbles. Closer \"Everlast\" moves into the present, drawing from modern purveyors of electronic dreams like Ekkehard Ehlers or Christian Fennesz. \"Everlast\" makes a nonspecific acoustic sound source shimmer on repeat, as each bit is elongated past the point of recognition, every pop and digital tear kept intact as it loops and melts. Everdom isn't exceptionally personalized, but Anders Ilar has obviously studied some of the masters, and will hopefully come with a more distinctly chilled ambient vision in the near future. "}