{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4032/homepage_large.215e0aab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Kearney","artist":"Ill Lit","title":"WACMusic","text":" A band name best suited for a hiphop duo. A boombox on the cover that's straight out of Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing. And, to start the album off, a deliberate, preprogrammed drumbeat that sounds as dated as that boombox looks. At first glance, WACMusic seems an unlikely release coming from San Franciscobased Badman Recordings, which has released work from the likes of Hayden, My Morning Jacket and Red House Painters frontman Mark Kozelek all of them devotees of an organic, subdued sound often dubbed Americana. But Brooklynbased duo Ill Lit soon quiet any suspicions that they deviate from this tradition, despite bearing the folktronica tag. WACMusic is, at its core, a quintessentially Badman album, albeit with some technological additives. The aforementioned opener, after all, is entitled \"Diner Girls\", so it's no surprise that the mechanized beat loses out to genuine drums and a softly strummed guitar not unlike much of the work of the band's labelmates. Within this folky vibe, however, there remains a inorganic element, as this track is imbued with the welcome sounds of a whirring keyboard. The lyrics are similarly juxtaposed. \"Americans just like to French kiss,\" leads off the male vocalist, while he later sings, in a pleasant twang, \"Aliens, they're coming for us.\" Ill Lit's depiction of rural America, in other words, is not just that of cornfields, but of crop circles as well. This dynamic largely pays off in a unique, though familiar record that recalls the lost highway warmth of East River Pipe, but without the dreadful isolation. And while there are acoustic ruminations aplenty such as the raw, tape hissinfused \"Options\" there's also an uptempo rocker (\"Beating the Daylights Out of My Nightlife\") and a reverbheavy ambler (\"Whitewashing\"). Several numbers don't quite work. \"Prestonhood\", for instance, opens with several minutes of atmospherics spliced piano twinkling with bursts of lapping water and distorted vocals. A pleasant but unremarkable song emerges with the always hitormiss male/female vocal harmonization. A line like, \"Every hip girl I know these days likes suicide,\" doesn't help matters either. Overall, though, WACMusic is an artistic success. Don't be fooled by the bandname, album art or intermittent electronics; all of these are superficial concerns. But don't take my word for it: inside the CD case, Ill Lit assures the listener, \"We are country music.\" They are, indeed and then some. "}