{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/405/homepage_large.1d6fca15.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"Alias","title":"Muted","text":" Listen up, kids; it's time for me to play like Mr. Rogers. The lesson today concerns the issue of paradox, 'cause this record unfolds like a case fresh out of Webster's: Despite its show of technical proficiency, Muted, the latest fulllength outing from Anticon producer Alias, suffers for lack of sentiment or expressive accomplishment. The album's desolate, downbeat production provides the album with a sense of internal subversion, and also represents a pinnacle of craftsmanship, but the tracks are sterile and underdeveloped, suffocating and slumbering through a heavyhanded hour of dirty industrial drum rhythms and distorted glitchwork. Breaking almost completely from Alias' hiphop backlog, Muted is largely instrumental, with the exception of one rhymeladen track near the record's end, and the unfortunate \"Unseen Sights\", where The Notwist's Markus Acher lends his tender vocals in a potentially perfect fit one which at least had the barebones makings to parallel his own work in tone and vibrancy. Unfortunately, Acher's insouciant mastery of crestfallen sobriety is dredged from a metallic sea of mercurial and wandering breakbeats. Even his own lyrics, which clumsily allude to American media hiding the bigger picture and abstracting the truth, fail to make a positive impact, and instead freeze him as a caricature of antiwar/anticonsumer backlash. The track's structure and application are too sterile to play on Acher's emotive prowess, and the nearmiss collaboration stings, feeling at best like a Notwist demo. Much of the album rides a rocky terrain of wandering breakbeats and ambient under/overtones, but a handful of wellrealized moments thankfully save the record from infamy. \"Full Circle Blues\" is a windy, sensual breath on a metal playground full of robots. \"Am I Cool Now?\", a moment of selfconscious reflection, features the vocal snippet, \"Anticon ain't hiphop yo/ They try to hard to be weird/ They're only popular on the Internet/ It's just stupid nerd rap,\" amidst a slaughtering barrage of drums and heavy beats. \"Chew the Fat\", the record's standout, then slides in with an echoing, searching, teetertotter affair of lively electronic manipulations and release/relapse drumwork. Additionally, the closer (with the exception of the 15minute break to hide the hidden track) carries the torch of capability with a nice use of space and a more focused compositional design. Of course, I'm not out to deprive anyone of their sole sanctuary, being that I might fall into the category of Internetnerdcritic and, as Muted loudly proclaims, Alias is too well informed and knows the game too well to succumb to pressure but if he turned some of the knobs down just a bit, and turned up the heat, maybe I could hear a little better. "}