{"label":" Monitor","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4056/homepage_large.96985c4d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Ink","title":"Reagent Specs","text":" Baltimore can drive men to extremes. I'm not just talking to your runofthemill 'brink,' either. The Charm City is retarded in so many powerful ways that it pushes men towards the bizarre and inconceivable. Take my beloved brother, Dr. Steve Haywood, for example. Prior to moving to Baltimore, he was devoted to three average, respectable pursuits: jogging, auto restoration and dentistry. Then came his Baltimorphosis: upon moving to the city, Dr. Steve immediately felt compelled to drop all else in an effort to master swing dancing, shaming my dear parents, and leading us all to ask what went wrong. Don't blame yourself, Mom; it was just Baltimore. One glance at Ink's sophomore LP, Reagent Specs, suggests that they, too, have been afflicted by Baltimore's insidious 'charm.' The liner notes proudly attest that Reagent Specs was \"written and recorded simultaneously at ACR, Baltimore, MD.\" In other words, they just booked ACR and waited for something cool to happen. Sounds crazy, eh? Like something you'd like advance warning about just so you could avoid it? Right, well, maybe it sounds that way on paper, but the results are fantastic. Whatever the point of the disclaimer, it's rather striking because, fact is, the album sounds calculated, like something that comes with its own theory. Instead of reflecting a 'found sound' aesthetic, Reagent Specs sounds practiced, polished and richly creative. The restrained postrock of Slint is an instant and undeniable reference point, as Ink similarly brood on shady bass and drum rhythms. Guitarist Craig Bowen (exScience Kit) works his hardest to draw new and interesting noises from his axe, including harmonics, feedback, and stringscratches. The guitar work, combined with some unique percussion (congas, junkyard implements), adds a jittery unease that prevails throughout the disc. Then there's the dispassionate delivery of vocalist Peter Quinn (formerly of the Baltimorebased hardcore band Candy Machine), which carves out meditative, quasimelodic lines that, united with his mantraesque lyrics, add a final measure of abstraction to the mix. The ensemble achieves its best results on two early tracks: \"Stereo Eyes\" captures the spirit of anxiety with a steady, funkless monotone bassline undergirding random guitar embellishments and lyrics about lucid dreaming. \"Industrial Schemes\" follows a different tack, dominated by the rhythmic elements: a restful, placid bass groove and a lazy, pulsing drumbeat which Quinn punctuates with rhythmic, streamofconsciousness vocals. For an album recorded under the oddest of conditions in one of the bleakest, least attractive cities in North America (and the former murder capitol of the world), Reagent Specs certainly is a fortuitous result, surprisingly palatable and accessible. And unlike its place of production, it doesn't grind or annoy, let alone stink, rot or die. "}