{"label":" Lost Highway","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/40/homepage_large.a70a8958.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hartley Goldstein","artist":"Ryan Adams","title":"Love Is Hell, Pts. 1 & 2","text":" If anyone out there is still wondering just how Ryan Adams can be so prolific, maybe it's because the urgency of his situation compels him to strike while the iron is hot. It took his former band, Whiskeytown, seven years to release a trio of critically revered albums, and his first solo record, 2000's Heartbreaker, was in the works for half that. But when Heartbreaker saw release, and was promptly met with virtually unanimous critical praise, Adams clearly became inspired and quickly turned out sixteen new tracks for a sophomore record the rushed, overproduced Gold which came with a bonus disc sporting five tracks in the more stripped vein of the album's predecessor. And when that album scored Adams a commercial alternative radio hit in the welltimed \"New York, New York\", he descended into a recording fervor that continues, unabated, to this day. Irrational outbursts and public meltdowns aside, Adams is, at heart, an extremely gifted songwriter who just doesn't realize that what he really needs is to take a deep breath and slow the fuck down. During the course of the past two years, he's released a collection of demos (Demolition), and a 21track side project called The Finger with exD Generation frontman Jesse Malin (the \"doublealbum\" We Are Fuck You/Punk's Dead Let's Fuck). He's currently planning a box set titled Career Ender, which will be crammed with five discs of the songs he's discarded since Gold dropped two years ago. And that's not even taking into account the fourtracked blues version of The Strokes' album Is This It that he's said to have recorded. Did I mention his collaborations with Beth Orton and Emmylou Harris? How about the track he cowrote for the Counting Crows? His session work with Lucinda Williams and Alejandro Escovedo? His production work on Jesse Malin's solo album? I think you get the point. The question is: why doesn't he? Adams originally intended Love Is Hell as his official third fulllength, but his label, Lost Highway, scoffed when he handed in the tapes. Initially, he planned to rework it, but then agreed to dashing off a glossy, radiofriendlier fulllength (the disasterous Rock N Roll), provided the label would also make room on their release schedule for a secondary release for Love Is Hell. It's easy to see why Lost Highway balked: an insincere, smugly posturing Ryan Adams who lives up to his stage persona by creating an album like Rock N Roll simply had to have been preferable to the miserable, slobbering woeisme shtick he plays up here. At least when he was wearing the proverbial altcountry tag, his balancing act of conceitedness and overemoting was halfway convincing. Unfortunately, just as the caricatureladen excesses of Rock N Roll aped garagerockers and postmortem Rock Hall of Famers, Love Is Hell reaches for the dripping, maudlin sentimentality of Rufus Wainwright or a mock Jeff Buckley. It's a shock, given that the press surrounding the Love Is Hell sessions had pegged the record as Adams' return to the sparse, twointhemorning flair of his debut and when Lost Highway postponed the recordings, calling them \"too dark,\" it only heightened the expectations of optimistic fans hoping for a stark, brooding future classic. Of course, it did seem something of an enigma as well: Adams' music, after all, had always faired best with pareddown arrangements making room for his own brand of confessional singer/songwriter groveling (e.g. Heartbreaker standouts \"Call Me on Your Way Back Home\" and \"Come Pick Me Up\"); shelving Ryan Adams for being too dark seemed to make about as much sense as shelving Kraftwerk for being too German. But while it's safe to say that these EPs are certainly dark at least in contrast to Rock N Roll and even parts of Gold they fail to capture the striking imagery and confident vocals of which Adams seemed a master on Heartbreaker. For example, Love Is Hell's opening, pianoled \"Political Scientist\", replaces Adams' confessional, firstperson narratives with a thirdperson tale that indicts the government for supplying cocaine, and candy factories for poisoning the environment. Conspiracy theories aside, playing Greenpeace spokesman is not Adams' strong suit; he attempts the political profundity of a Thom Yorke and comes off like a diet Chris Martin. And if Adams fails to adopt Yorke's political relevance, he'll settle for the Radiohead frontman's melismatics Love Is Hell is riddled with Adams' unabashed aping of Yorke's signature fragmented lyrical style. On the lethargic litecountry stomp of \"This House Is Not for Sale\", Adams repeatedly pleads, \"Calm down/ Just calm down,\" the emotional resonance of which verges on laughable. Meanwhile, the sleepy, acoustic blather of \"Afraid Not Scared\" has Adams repeatedly confessing that he is \"really dying in here,\" and just wants to be \"let down,\" sounding about as genuinely distraught as Ja Rule sounds genuinely \"gangsta.\" The eight songs that constitute Love Is Hell, Pt. 1 seem intentionally built around a studio version of Adams' infamous live staple, a cover of the Oasis hit \"Wonderwall\". Acclaimed Smiths producer John Porter unfortunately buries Adams beneath a sobering wall of reverb, which drains the song of its spirited pop ingenuity and transforms its nonsensical lyrics into some sort of momentous, selfimportant dirge. Consequently, \"Wonderwall\" seems emblematic of the rest of the disc, a collection of preposterously cheerless (and charmless) songs that try much too hard to achieve a poignancy or anything, really that might hide their complete insignificance. As Love Is Hell, Pt. 1 resoundingly proves, Adams is at his finest when he sticks to the subject matter he knows best: broken hearts and bar fights. Given this, it's no shock that the highlight of this entire project comes with the Dylanesque Beth Orton kissoff \"English Girls Approximately\". Appearing halfway into Love Is Hell, Pt. 2, the song is classic Adams, brimming with his smug wit (sample lyric: \"You said you didn't love me, it was right on time/ I was just about to tell you, but ok, alright\") and unabashed, acoustic guitardriven ecstasy. As Marianne Faithful lends her austere vocal harmonies to the chorus, it serves as a breathtaking reminder of the chemistry Adams shared with Emmylou Harris on Heartbreaker's divine ballad, \"Oh, My Sweet Carolina\". Another highlight of Love Is Hell, Pt. 2 is its closing R&B; vamp, \"Chelsea Nights\". Over a bed of radiating Wurlitzer chords and bluesy guitar fills, Adams narrates a night spent aimlessly wandering New York City's unfeeling winter streets, searching for the love he always manages to lose. The track, which peaks with Adams' plaintive confession, \"I played your song/ I got the melody all wrong,\" is filled with the selfawareness, irony, and despondency that's made Adams' best work so moving, all the way back to his Whiskeytown days; it's a shame he forces his listeners to wade through a glut of unsalvageable craprock to arrive at it. Indeed, these two tracks are anomalies happy accidents, or moments of clarity amongst the overbearing melodrama of the bulk of material contained on Love Is Hell, Pt. 2. \"Thank You Louise\" serves as the harrowing antithesis to these diamonds in the rough, an atrocious slice of sloppy sentimentality in which Adams sings, over an unnecessarily bloated string section, of a mother receiving news of her son's death. For a guy who's attained uncommon levels of infamy by simply being a sarcastic fucking prick all the time, he pours on the schmaltz here like he studied under Air Supply. The Joy Division ripoff \"City Rain, City Streets\" is so bereft of any humor that its megalomania challenges even Conor Oberst: Adams crams nearly four minutes of distorted newwave guitars and gratuitous reverb into this shudderinducing display of shamelessness, proudly spouting disasters like, \"I fucked you over a million times,\" and, \"You died, you died, you really died.\" Listening to these discs, one can only imagine the myriad reasons Lost Highway decided to release the Love Is Hell sessions not as one spiraling, abysmal fulllength, but as a pair of EPs (let alone why they shelved it to make way for Rock N Roll instead). The obvious, cynical answer is that it wouldn't detract from the publicity they were expecting Rock N Roll to receive. But it's also easy to envision the label's creative heads considering how spreading the material out might help conceal the songs' alarmingly empty sentiments. The sad fact is, no marketing strategy, no matter how savvy, could conceal this collection's bathetic, overwrought travesties and gruesome failures. In the midst of this mess, both Adams and Lost Highway come out losers: one critical carwreck might have been manageable, but they may not recover from two. "}