{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/406/homepage_large.61dbb429.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Craig Rostron","artist":"The Austerity Program","title":"Terra Nova EP","text":" Cavemen had to hunt for their food. They couldn't go to their local supermarket and pick out what to eat for dinner: there weren't any prepackaged, sterile cuts of brontosaurus ribs. Cavemen had to stalk the creatures that looked like they could be caught and eaten, and that wouldn't poison or infect them once consumed. Cavemen had to take a chance. Cavemen had to brave the little voice inside of their head, whispering: \"Throw spear at giant friendeater? Get eaten like friend. Don't throw spear at giant friendeater. Find easier food.\" But some cavemen went out and killed that dangerous food anyway. With that said, The Austerity Program have murdered the beast that is normalcy. By taking a guitar, a bass, and a drum machine, Justin Foley and Thad Calabrese have concocted a fourtrack EP that seethes lyrical belligerence and scrapes by on a minimal number of elements. Recorded in a church basement where the elders no doubt peeked on with trepidation as the duo beat on their instruments and wailed like Jesus must have when the nails were driven in this music perfects repetition: Soggy basslines drip from frozen fingers as notes find refuge against the drum machine's plodding kick and snare. Feet stamp through puddles in time with the beat, canines gnashing into lips through the awkward strangling of the guitar. Breath twists into a gasping scream as air is pushed thin of sound. Each of Terra Nova's untitled tracks last upwards of eight minutes, the band relentlessly dragging their victims around frozen tundra with jagged teeth: \"Black her out and drag her down the stairs/ Drag her out into the cold/ Blood is dripping on into the streets/ She's halfway gone to god.\" Each song writhes under its tormentors hands, giant crevasses of silence only procured by the slight popping of a bassline or the murmur of the guitar. On the opening track, the cymbal picks monotonously for a brief moment until guitar and bass enter the room in a tussle, each side getting in equal damage. The cymbal returns, warning the two of dire consequences, but is immediately cut off with squabbling and a quick middle finger. Finally, a conflict ensues with all parties enraged, from which the vocals emerge triumphant. Parched from the frozen pipes, the voice lunges and cries with little care for the damage ultimately caused. Wavering at the top of the exhalation, the peak is reached only to come tumbling back down in a violent display of guitarfucking action: as the members put their backs into it, the instruments thud from the dry humps received. Each thrust from the fingers and the pelvis wrench out disdain and ire: \"But what is blood without its oxygen/ But the water of death sick on its own disease.\" Gushing choruses melt from the dawdling lines of the bridges for a violent tumult of rapids the listener must ford. And it goes on like this throughout the EP: sparse snippets of guitar interplay with bluesy white boy vocals screeching like a pubertyriddled Steve Albini until they finally figure out what to do with an erection when no one's looking: start milking it to the good stuff for about twenty seconds, and once they can't take anymore: POP. Time to clean up the chorus before Dad knocks on the door to see what all the ruckus is about. "}