{"label":" Orange Twin","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4063/homepage_large.0165c42f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"The Instruments","title":"Billions of Phonographs","text":" Less a band than a large, loose assemblage of musicians, The Instruments gather to play the songs of one Heather McIntosh. Members of Neutral Milk Hotel, Olivia Tremor Control, Circulatory System, Music Tapes, and Elf Power have all contributed, striving for the demented carnival feel of Tom Waits circa Swordfishtrombones and The Black Rider, alternately. They have an obsession with the sea that goes beyond lyrics or song titles like \"My Ship\" and \"Sea Chantey\": The entire album sounds like it was played on the deck of a galleon creeping slowly through the night on calm waters. That gentle swaying adrift on an endless expanse of ocean resides at the core of Billions of Phonographs. Its tension comes from dense harmonies and plodding rhythms, not anxiously anticipating disaster, but insistent, and focused on the ship's...instruments. Bordering overwrought, the complicated pieces will knock a few curious listeners off the Instruments' boat, but those with a thirst for detail should delight in McIntosh's intricacy of arrangement, made simultaneously more complex and naturalistic by the established, welltraveled collective that support her. The songs shuffle along, taking their time to develop, giving the impression they dictate the agenda to the musicians, rather than the other way around. It's is an intriguing approach in small doses, but taken at length, it's hard not to wish someone from the vaunted cast would firmly plant their spurs in this pony. Billions of Phonographs manages to slip into the background more often than one might expect given that it features such novel ingredients as theremin, mellophone, and a singing saw. Unfortunately, its vagueness is largely due to the fact that McIntosh isn't all that compelling as a vocalist, and when she puts together a harmony, she tends to overdo it, going too big, too loud, too overtly exotic. Flying solo, her druggy delivery merely hovers rather than soaring or swooping.Billions of Phonographs would probably function better playing in a quiet coffee shop than at home over headphones, intently analyzing each note, despite the considerable craftsmanship that on paper deserves the latter setting. The two laudable exceptions to this estimation are found at albums' end: \"My Ship\" and \"By and By\". Here, McIntosh gets it right, doubletracking her vocals on the first and offering a gorgeous adaptation of a J.R. Webster theme on the second. Acknowledging the chaotic, overstuffed material many of the contributors are infamous for, Billions of Phonographs is surprising in its direct emotional consistency; the players are able to subdue their egos and focus on their muse, but she's unable to answer their prayers, delivering sustenance rather than bounty. "}