{"label":" Bpitch Control","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/407/homepage_large.aa2bf2ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Ellen Allien","title":"Berlinette","text":" Lately I feel a little shaky. It rains too much and the coffee's too strong and the sirens are too loud, too often. People aren't as pretty as they used to seem, and on top of that they're gradually electing the entire cast of the movie Predator to significant governorships. Minnesota, California: I think I saw Carl Weathers in Central Park yesterday with a stack of leaflets. When late November rolls around and someone asks what I'm thankful for, I might just give up and say Ellen Allien's Berlinette, which has made the past six or seven months a lot nicer. That's the kind of love she inspires. Another Pitchforker came back from Berlin a few months ago, having seen her DJ at a party for her label, Bpitch Control, and said fauxhawked German boys had been lined up around the deck to bring her drinks. Thom Yorke's been going around talking about how great the label is, the cheat: yes, yet another cadre of ultrafine German electronics. And earlier this year she released Berlinette, which is \"serious,\" and \"pop,\" and beautiful, and which I've had more success recommending to people than anything in years. It's a record that German techno enthusiasts and Björk fans can agree on; it tweaks and thumps and then pulls gorgeous ghostly pop out of it; it's big and solid and lovely. How so? The truth is that it's just enchanting, in a way that has to do with something much more than the sonic inventiveness and precision engineering that I'll have to settle for discussing here. It's rare for artists to manage what Allien does to take the tweaky cutting edges of techno and IDM and electro and draw from them pop music evocative enough to entrance even people who are usually turned off by electronics and \"repetitive beats.\" It's even rarer for an artist to manage that with anything like Berlinette's sense of mood and personality, which mostly transcends the mechanics of the sound. But Allien manages all of this, in about eleven different ways. Just try one track: \"Trashscapes\". Her beats are like tiny hypercomplicated machines, with lots of pistons and articulated limbs; \"Trashscapes\" kicks in with a stiff, daunting one, one that pounds and then hangs in the air for a second before flipping over and starting again. Then come bursts of gnarled guitar, processed into a grim, extraterrestrial chug the same way Allien's vocals are always processed into what feel like departure announcements from a spaceport on Mercury. At first we can't hear her: just microsecond clips and stutters popping over the mechbeat. Then she's singing and it feels heavy but it hasn't quite gelled into sense: \"Wo is where/ What is when/ Why we are here.\" But when the guitars speed into an evil blur she comes out all steelyeyed with the record's mantra: \"The past is a lighttrain to unknown trashscapes.\" That's what she does, on the face of it: She blurs the line between \"real\" sounds and \"fake\" ones, weaving processed patches of voice and guitar directly into the laptopped complexity of her rhythms; on \"Abstract Pictures\" it's the clang of a sequencer that rings out clear and natural. On \"Push\" she indulges in the halfcrazy tweakery of some of her labelmates, toying with stompy synth blurts and calling, \"Push/ Push/ Kick your ass.\" When she goes pop it's not by watering down the beats and crooning seductively or anything like that; it's just by gathering her steady tech throb up into gorgeous sweeps of melody. \"Sehnsucht\", one of the record's other standouts, has a compositional swell that's like the best days of Orbital, another act that always had the same ghostly, personal sheen Allien conjures: the beat here is her secondbest machine (see \"Wish\"), and the vocal is just another microprocessed blip, a halfsyllable \"Ah.\" It stutters in and takes its shape, and by the time the song draws up, roaring, there's no lyric that could be more right than the electronically pitched melody of those halfsyllables. But all that's only technical. If it were just that, Berlinette would be an outstanding record, but not so outstanding as this. No, Berlinette has something extra the sort of mood and magic that makes you want to bring Allien as many drinks as she'll let you buy her. It's in the hyperpretty, otherworldly electrofunk of \"Secret\", in the almost Curelike cerebral throb of \"Open\", and even in the embarrassingly bald, maybe even naïve lyric of \"Wish\", which, like any good moment of vulnerability, makes you like Allien that much more. \"Need a planet without cars and wars/ I wish it could be true,\" she sings an almost strange thing to hear on a record full of alien machines. So that's the thrill: realizing all over again just how evocative and gorgeous the stiff clatter of technology can be. You sit calmly listening, drifting off to somewhere else, and then you notice that the little people dancing inside your head could almost be jacking their limbs off to certain points, or that the sounds of power tools are peeking out between the sounds of androids singing arias. Oh, maybe it's not that amazing: It's just a record, after all, and one of plenty of great ones released this year. But I've spent half the year with it, and it only gets better, and I can't wait to hear how it sounds in a few months, when the Predator itself announces a darkhorse independent bid for the presidency. "}