{"label":" Tumult","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4078/homepage_large.8e0b7a70.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Iran","title":"The Moon Boys","text":" Relative anonymity functioned as an aesthetic safe haven for early, cassettebound Sentridoh, prepre 4AD Mountain Goats, and the cryptic skree of dozens of lesserknown, hissridden troubadours. Likewise, streamofthecuff releases by tape labels like Shrimper, Catsup Plate, and Union Pole were defined by a handscribbled, superarcane but friendly DIY mystique. Put the two parts together and the distorted, crackling sounds of faceless songwriters arrived unedited from darkened corners of smalltown disorientation on an almost daily basis. It was a less populated network of obsessive discontents, documenting basements and sunken porches, entropy and broken relationships, via unadorned fourtracks, ducttaped guitars, and stolen elementary school cassette recorders. I don't know much about Iran beyond the obvious: they're from San Francisco, and are a trio. On the cover of their latest record, there's a darkeyed girl in a flannel shirt resting below a painting of some ducks and mountains. The CD booklet is littered with ink drawings: a dragon, a squirrel eyeing pills or acorns, a crying baby, some kid with a swastika on his forehead and a fish in each hand, an elf with a rifle, a hand forming the shape of a gun, an amputated arm sprouting diamonds or moon rocks. The centerpiece is a collage of a winged child on a leather couch with a friend, who, obscured by his pal's wings, appears to be smoking. The back panel's marked with mixing directives, language for establishing a perfect sound: \"More dynamics over all (song to song and within song).\" I've reread this at least fifteen times, yet nothing becomes clear.The Moon Boys is Iran's second album: it's a frostbound anthology of claustrophobic hymns to leaving/not leaving, black eyes, hushed voices, windows, silence, the night, mirrors, and strangulation. While less sonically virulent than their selftitled debut, it remains spiraling and unfathomably dense as a documentation of plush, damaged interiority, twelve discordant halos soiling the carpet. Deft at shaping and repackaging noise, Iran pummel channels and burden eardrums while sneaking hooks through your skin: imagine Simon WickhamSmith, Three Mile Pilot, and Goosewind collaborating with Arab Strap on muted/mutating pop, sung all at once by Wallpaper, Lou Barlow, and Elliott Smith. If that makes no sense, pretend you're listening loudly to Xiu Xiu, and this is what it sounds like from next door. The walls are thin; even the slightest motions bleed, confusing the space. \"The Moon Shines Bright\" strings together echoes of psych fireworks, and for whatever reason reminded me of a split lip. Maybe it's the ferocity of the guitar picking and drone, or the fuckeduponcodeine vocals trying to paint stars black, to overload the world with personal darkness. It's tough finding an exact match, though I'm getting Luxurious Bags backed by Harry Pussy or Richard Youngs gone hardass bubblegum. \"Four Armed Star\" creates subtextual fuzz with two sets of vocals, one like a fractured kazoo. Both are buried by a detuning of the environment; as in most of the tracks, certain notes and words are hidden, but at the center someone's threatening to leave or to stay. The largely instrumental \"Wuthering Heights\" is Heathcliff hanging Isabella's dog within a romantic geography of wind and bent trees, trumpet and clarinet across the grassy lea. I thought of Loren Connors tripping a landmine. Balancing psychosis and the erotic, the offkilter, everspinning \"Fading Out\" is creepy and tender and catchy: \"I pull the sheets above my head/ I was hiding in your bed/ It made you laugh but I guess you'll still be leaving anyway.\"The Moon Boys is fucking beautiful, a dizzying revelry, but also a scary, latenight lockdown. With repeated listens sounds bloom, open and deepen, and a story develops. Hooks disappear. Flubbed notes remain and turn dusty, then to prismatic gold. Dynamics unravel. Dew looks like piss. Air cuts out. Indistinct things distract from earlier fixations without detracting. It's hearing a faroff cry in a dark forest, or two blocks over in your own city, and knowing the next day you should've intervened. These are momentary transmissions from faulty cables, remaining long enough to declare a hook, break apart, disengage, then disappear. Thank you, Iran. Whoever you are. "}