{"label":" Priority","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13250/homepage_large.4cacc29c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"Ice Cube","title":"Greatest Hits","text":" There are two ways to sequence a greatest hits album: chronologically or by degrees of popularity. Ice Cube's new compilation ignores these methods entirely. Gasp in wonderment: the album begins with a rambling pandemonium of tracks (brand new stuff, songs from the War and Peace fiasco, a couple of his classic early 90s songs, \"Bow Down\") and then, somewhere around the eleventh song, the album decides this was a bad idea and heads in reverse chronological order from 1993's Lethal Injection to his 1990 solo debut, AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted. The actual experience is like reading an anthology of unrelated essays and then watching them suddenly turn into a novel told backwards. It's either brilliant or idiotic, but I admit I doubt anyone thought Ice Cube would be the one to link gangsta rap and French avantgarde literature. I came into the CD just wanting to hear a few tales about some bitches, maybe some senseless claims of braggadocio, and I came out thinking about mobius strip sequences and reincarnation. I only offer this flagrantly satirical critique of the album's arrangement because I know, from innumerable reviews, that there are apparently those who base their purchases on some minutiae like whether the most belligerent songs are saved for the middle of a collection like this or whether the War and Peace songs only occur at the end. I hate people like that. Go back to memorizing your index cards at that Vital Sounds store on Wilshire. Do you really think there's going to be some point where you sit on your chaise longue reading your New Yorker and sipping some cognac, considering the narrative arc and gradual characterization of a hits package? It's so much more likely you'll be rolling on dubs, selling zooties out the trunk, driving your kid sister's twittering friends to a soccer meet, having never even heard the last half of the album because you were listening to \"We Be Clubbin'\" for the seventh time in an hour. Besides, I sincerely doubt Greatest Hits will in any way disappoint your expectations. Every facet of Cube's career is at least partially represented: the \"Golden Age\" Bomb Squadproduced angry black man with an AK, a libido, a social conscience, and a penury of chivalry; the 70s funkblasting lackadaisical stoner; the unconvincing Chronicripoff poseur; and the bizarre 21stcentury white noiseandbells godfather of gangsta, rhyming for image's sake and little else. There are, to be sure, modifications and breaches of these images, but, as a reviewer, I need to unfairly classify artists even if it detracts from their impact. The actual songs obviously didn't require much forethought on the part of the compilers; the most casual MTV viewer should know most of these by heart: stripperanthem \"Check Yo Self\", the gfunk All in the Family scenarios of \"Once Upon a Time in the Projects\", the deceitfully cynical strut \"It Was a Good Day\" (a good day because \"I didn't even have to use my A.K.\"), and the emasculating shadowed thump of \"My Summer Vacation\". Overall, it's pretty difficult to find fault with their selections. While it's possible to wish Priority Records hadn't devoted about a third of the disc to Cube's postHollywood output, the singles from those admittedly mediocre albums are fairly resilient, even in the context of his best work. There are some inspired, if not entirely revolutionary, choices here as well. I don't know how they were able to attenuate the original 10minute Funkadelic homage \"Bop Gun (One Nation)\" down to a tight four minutes, but it's pretty successful at conveying this tribute amidst some of Cube's hardesthitting lines. The rarely heard \"Jackin' for Beats\" off 1990's Kill at Will EP is what The Doors' \"The Changeling\" would sound like if mixed by Santa Claus, L.A. riots, and copious and blatant references to \"Welcome to the Terrordome\". There's also Westside Connection's \"Bow Down\", but this seems more like an acknowledgement of licensing limitations than a plea for the track to enter Ice Cube's canon. It's fairly irreconcilable to call this Greatest Hits while vaunting Westside Connection over the Dr. Dre collaboration \"Natural Born Killaz\" or most of the songs from Cube's first two albums. There are also two new tracks which are far from \"great hits,\" and may not even make it to the Miserable BSides album: \"$100 Dollar Bill Y'All\" might contain the indestructible chorus, \"I'm in this bitch/ I've got a hundred dollar bill, y'all,\" but it offers very little else in its tepid delivery and handclap counterpoint, while \"Late Night Hour\" supplies overly melodramatic and creepily simple synths over unremarkable beats. There isn't much else to say. Ice Cube deserves a bestof. This album contains most of the best of Ice Cube. Of course, AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted or The Predator are probably, in their entirety, better than this, but that's more a testament to the greatness of those albums; they're so good they're paradoxically better than Ice Cube's own greatest hits. To gather Cube's sound on his later releases, this is at least better than renting The Player's Club again, and acts as a certainly satisfactory introduction to one of the greatest American satirists since Mark Twain. "}