{"label":" Emperor Jones","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4105/homepage_large.50304c20.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"I Love You But I've Chosen Darkness","title":"I Love You But I've Chosen Darkness EP","text":" ...And you will know them by their long, purposefully unwieldy moniker. Or perhaps you will know them because Spoon's Britt Daniel produced their debut EP. Either way, the five guys who constitute Austin's I Love You But I've Chosen Darkness (including a couple past members of Windsor for the Derby and Paul Newman) are obviously adept at cultivating attention and it turns out that they actually merit some, too, if this fivesong starter kit is any indication. Daniel may be the big name on this marquee, but his presence is basically incidental, as he does his best to naturally capture the band doing their thing; reverb is about the most drastic addition he makes. Initially, listening to the band just do their thing without any attendant bells and whistles threatens overwhelming boredom they've strangely sequenced the absolute least engaging song at the beginning the EP. \"We're Still the Weaker Sex\" isn't a bad song, per se, but if Nelson had opened with a bow shot like this he probably would have lost at Trafalgar. The vocals are buried under clean, start/stop electric guitars, and though the music builds nicely as the drums pick up on the guitar rhythms and the band slides into a slippery fauxjazz groove, the melody never really builds with it, and the song fails to stick as a result, though the acceleration for the spiraling guitar outro is pretty exhilarating. Thankfully, it's nothing but broadsides of tightly constructed, Factorybrand indie rock, and soon enough, your battleship is sunk by the slow build and nagging guitars of \"The Less You See\", a Slintlite swoon that climaxes with an airy bridge instead of a blistering pileup. The band hold their aces for the last two spots on the disc, though, unloading with the spiky disco stomp of \"When You Go Out\" on track four and proving why we should be paying attention. The detached, everyman harmonies sink into the band's best melody while the guitars scour the stratosphere with insistently droning lines that seem to ricochet off the open hihats. Closer \"Your Worst Is the Best\" drives home the fact that the band are at their best and most memorable when the vocals are performed in tandem, and the chiming guitars and electric piano of the first few verses create a crystalline, womblike effect. The song dissipates into a keyboard ether, leaving behind thoughts of Big Things to come for the quintet. I Love You But I've Chosen Darkness already have the sound of a pink and grey counterpart to Interpol's red and black, and the Spoon connection feels logical, given the band's penchant for pop with a bite and a new wave edge. If they can deliver on their promise, we'll soon know them for a lot more than their name. "}