{"label":" !K7 / Recall","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4111/homepage_large.acf36b50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"I Am X","title":"Kiss and Swallow","text":" Poor Sneaker Pimps. The Reading, England trio has always been eclipsed by the triphop power trio of Massive Attack, Portishead, and Tricky, whose respective genredefining debuts (Blue Lines, Dummy and Maxinquaye) made the Pimps' fine but latetothegame 1996 LP Becoming X seem somewhat irrelevant. Despite that, the band persevered, building a name for themselves on the strength of a solid single (\"6 Underground\") and the Armand Van Heldenremixed club hit \"Spin Spin Sugar\". When vocalist Kelli Dayton left the band, though, Sneaker Pimps leaders Chris Corner and Liam Howe were suddenly without their only triphop selling point, and it became necessary for the band to redefine themselves. The duo experienced some serious growing pains with 1999's Splinter, but came back rejuvenated five years later with Bloodsport. The album was uneven, but to the Sneaker Pimps' credit, they had distanced themselves from the movement they were at first identified with, and had begun to follow a promising industrialelectro trajectory. While the Sneaker Pimps prepare a followup to Bloodsport, Chris Corner has issued a solo album under the name I Am X, a tongueincheek play on the name of the Pimps' debut, Becoming X. In truth, I Am X's debut, Kiss and Swallow, doesn't differ much from Bloodsport's aspirations, and actually fits nicely into the band's current trajectory. On many songs, Corner's typically gorgeous lowend synth provides oxygen for the album's dark electro pulse, at times fancying I Am X a sinister counterpart to Felix da Housecat. The opening title track functions as a bridge of sorts between Bloodsport and I Am X's new agenda, as Corner's reverbed vocals are contrasted against the heavy but lilt synth bass and crunchy snare effects. Elsewhere, the opaque Add N to (X) lowend of \"You Stick It in Me\" provides a healthy bounce for the song's cokedout female vocals, and the initial glitz of \"Your Joy Is My Low\" melts nicely into crisp string melodies and a deliberate halftime rhythm that, for better or worse, recalls Nine Inch Nails' \"Closer\". Still, for all Corner's forwardthinking moves on Kiss and Swallow, I Am X still takes painful recourse to his triphop past, desperately trying to emote with those soaringbutboring vocal melodies that got him in trouble on Splinter. On \"Simple Girl\" and \"Mercy\", he ruins his fantastic production with overly dramatic deliveries, and the scratchy duetchorus on \"White Suburb Impressionism\" offers one of the more painful lyrics of the year: \"Every cure is someone else's disease.\" Two songs, thankfully, forgive I Am X of many of his missteps. The first is \"Skin Vision\", a slick and indisputably electro anthem whose ragged bassline could very well land the song in deep house sets, and whose sultry female vocals beg to be remixed. The second is \"Missile\", whose relatively complex progression and warm, cloudy timbre recall Brian Eno's \"Some of Them Are Old\", until I Am X harnesses the ambience with a labored beat, then overwhelms it completely with blasts of gargled choirs and warbled piano melodies. The song's not triphop, and it's certainly not electro it's just a good pop song. Straightforward pop doesn't seem like it's on the Sneaker Pimps schedule, but Corner's I Am X project certainly could handle it, especially if songs like \"Missile\" are what he's capable of on his own. "}