{"label":" Idea","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/412/homepage_large.211b00e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Tetuzi Akiyama","title":"Don't Forget to Boogie","text":" If you know guitarist Tetuzi Akiyama, it's probably as one of the forefront players in modern Japanese improvisation. Along with Taku Sugimoto, Toshimaru Nakamura and Otomo Yoshihide, Akiyama has helped shaped the sound of Onkyo with his guitar in a scene largely heralded for its use of electronics, these musicians' use of a much more traditionally \"rock\" instrument shouldn't go unnoticed. Furthermore, along with Nakamura, Akiyama organizes a monthly \"meeting\" at the Off Site venue in Tokyo wherein many of the world's most interesting improvisers collaborate in a series of electroacoustic performances. The third CD compilation of these performances was recently released, and will be of interest to anyone into modern improv and experimental electronic music. Now, all of that said, DON'T FORGET TO BOOGIE!!! Sorry, I just had to spit that out. Despite a CV that might lead you to believe Akiyama wouldn't be caught dead listening to a classic rock station, he sees fit to issue his third solo album as something of a tribute to the electric blooze of acts like Canned Heat, Led Zeppelin and John Lee Hooker. Don't Forget is a straight solo performance of riffs, licks and grease that would make Billy Gibbons jealous and European festival organizers scratch their heads in bewilderment. Where other infamous Japanese guitarists like Keiji Haino or Makoto Kawabata use their infatuation with hard rock to inform apocalyptic freakouts, Akiyama is content to play the kind of music that you might hear in a Louisiana dive late at night, after all the drunk cowboys have gone home and only the drunker barflies are left to give their respects to the blues. In some way, Akiyama's record (vinyl only, of course) is a very clichéd notion of preserving an outdated model of authentic rock expression. In another way, it's a stone, hypnotic jam. Opener \"It's a Boogie Thing\" will have the hardline improvgeeks running for the hills, but all you closet ZZ Top fans need to go ahead and surrender now. Akiyama's devilcomerunnin' blues shuffle is practically an archetypical soundtrack to cruising Texas twolane highways in an old pickup as the sun burns your arm and bugs splatter against the windshield. The minimal, repetitive groove carries on without a care in the world, as if simply sitting back and reveling in the glory of a groove and a $35 amp is the height of sophistication. Tunes like \"Doll House Shakin'\" and \"Dead Or...\" proceed similarly, emphasizing an almost intimidating willingness to do absolutely nothing for minutes at a time other than worship a riff. Not everything is so straightforward. \"She's a BGirl\" is a pretty rumination on the power of shimmering light as translated by a tremolo'd guitar. Here, Akiyama uses his instrument not so much as a conduit to his rock and blues heroes, but as a paintbrush, crossing stroke after stroke of an impressionist still life. Just as he does on his improvised releases, Akiyama finds a way to make sparse figures add up to much more than the sum of their parts. This is especially the case in the ultratrance of \"Fast Machine\"; you'd be surprised how engaging a single, quickly repeated guitar chord emulating the monolithic pulse of passing highway lanedividers can be. Akiyama describes Don't Forget to Boogie as his \"ego trip,\" and it's certainly an album that requires some compromise from listeners. For most people, perhaps an album consisting of only solo electric guitar bluesrock wouldn't sound like a musthave, and I'll own up to having been fairly skeptical before hearing it. However, I shouldn't have been surprised to know that good musicians tend to make interesting whatever they try, even when they might trip over their own enthusiasm along the way. Akiyama's ego trip is, at worst, a guilty pleasure, and at best, a carefree cruise into the rock and roll sunset. Smoke 'em if you got 'em, boys. "}