{"label":" Playhouse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4119/homepage_large.6a53e5c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Isolée","title":"We Are Monster","text":" The classics kid in me craves noble grandeur crafthappy shit with more than meets the rods and cones, less is always more (except with clothes), suggestiveseductive vs. the onceoff gunfuck. Fullon body music's great, sure, but so is porno, and with that shit I'd much rather wax new flesh than drag my stylus off the same old 10second loop. Same time, Intelligent Body Music's as much a nightmare as Intelligent Anal, both a prefab excuse for pleasurelack. So we're stuck in this immediacy=better rut, when really the best stuff crossgenre crossplatform, crossmedia has instant funk, but with enough tricks for prolonged appeal. Liking We Are Monster is easy. Isolée aren't bangers but they groove hard enough; melodies are pretty but most times we have to look for them (no lead vox or riff jihad per se). Tracks aren't afraid to be songs (\"Face B\"), and songs aren't afraid to be tracks (\"Jelly Baby / Fish\"). Everything's pleasant in other words, nonthreatening like the cutesyest Morr Music lullaby, but physical enough that you could get away with some great normalperson dancing. There are guitar sounds on a few tracks too, if that's important (\"Today\" sounds like \"Do You Realize?\"), and traceable horizontal A>B trajectory in songs with actual movements and quantifiable progress. No need for all the \"it's about size! it's about expansion!\" apologies people make for their favorite loops. As for loving this record letting it problematize itself with spins and learning to let it offend well, We Are Monster has the depth if you have the time. Yep, here's a fun record that's a workforit, inthedetails record, too. Behind the chokedvocals groove of, say, \"Enrico\" are countless microsurprises (check how the kicks break down differently each turnaround, or how the downbeat finally drops deceptively midbar instead of on the loop's head), structured flips with chesslike anticipation (the guitarlike scratches function percussively at first, their color stuck in overtones until the song needs them in full), and avalanching momentum not from Isolée stuffing ideas halfbaked, but from letting the seeds of lines grow, branch out, and tangle. Not sure we can talk of \"Golden Age IDM\" or even \"Golden Age Techno\" yet, but something like the CopelanddoesGlam gem \"Schrapnell\" seems so effortless, breathes so carefree, years from now crits might accuse it of sounding timeless maybe even of being so. The rest of the tracks have their own selfrevealing logic, obeying the beat but never in dependency to it. Honestly, you could drop the drum sounds off \"Madchen mit Hase\" and the song would still kill a floor, the rhythms of its composite parts boasting good spine, serving the melody before decorating the dancefloor. No gesture's incidental; the simplest blip plays for both a greater purpose and its own passing punchline. Even the secondtrackiest number, \"Do Re Mi\", fronts a perplexing guitar jingle so it can alleyoop with drones of the same progression and a goofy italodisco melody of 180degree mood change, then the polaropposite timbre. These songs are wellpoised and welldeveloped and terrifyingly autonomous so much so I'm afraid they're no longer Isolée's anymore. On that note: Yeah, while I wish We Are Monster was an Album w/Overarching Concerns and Worldview, not just a Bunch Of Sweet SimilarSounding StandAlone Tracks, I'm also convinced that in fact, a worldview is there, and probably an exciting one at that. I just haven't cracked one yet or just won't be able to.  "}