{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4126/homepage_large.f346a36d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Neil Robertson","artist":"Adem","title":"Homesongs","text":" The first thing you'll notice is the silence: the stretches of soundless beauty that sit between each impassioned whisper; the soft hum of ringing strings as they pause for breath. Too many musicians shy away from these voids. Scared that each empty moment will expose their songs as halfformed, halffelt mockups of emotion, they fill each space with needless guitar lines, cloying strings, or overcooked vocal cadences. Perhaps the reason Homesongs revels in such silences with its slowly shifting dynamics and effortless drops from towering intensity to breathbaiting sighs lies in its conception. Written and recorded in the exFridge guitarist's London home, Adem Ilhan's debut consists of songs culled from quiet evenings of epiphany and contemplation and of simple chords plucked in a bedroom and embroidered with the barest of adornments. From the first hesitant strums of autoharp on \"Pillow\" to the pleading proposition, \"Could this be my home for tonight?\", the more sparse, lethargic moments on Homesongs sound as though Ilhan sat alone, puncturing the stillness of his surroundings, each of his notes a tiny tremor. On \"Long Drive Home\", the worn acoustics that accompany Adem's cracked, livedin voice are furnished with descending glockenspiel and modest organ parts, serving to accent his swollenthroated tale of a trampledon lover. But Homesongs is not simply a procession of trembling troubadour tunes. For each turn of boxwood fragility, there's also one of bold and confident songwriting. While many of the melodies on the album are too abstracted to pigeonhole Adem as altfolk, the lilting grace, rolling acoustics, and undertow of wheezing harmonium on the wonderful \"Everything You Need\" sits comfortably alongside the lowrent Scottish folk propelled by the likes of Domino labelmates James Yorkston and exBeta Band member Lone Pigeon. Similarly, the sprawling sixminute strum \"These Are Your Friends\" gradually abandons its wistful narrative and gentle arrangements, building a fevered intensity around the mantra, \"Everybody needs some help sometimes,\" before Adem cuts the chord, allowing his voice and a gentle wind to fade into the ether. Though the album's home recording and quaint assembly of secondhand accompaniment may suggest a kitsch, lofi aspect, the reality is very different: These songs are wellproduced. Although Adem does not approach the instrumentation with the same disregard for convention you would expect from a member of a postrock outfit like Fridge, the album's narrow array of sounds rarely restricts the effectiveness of its songs. Take \"One in a Million\": Adem sets the steel twang of banjo and guitar against a soft carpet of harmonium and a melody that flutters from halfspoken to impassioned falsetto, creating something both beautiful and understated. Gentle yet never whimsical, intimate yet never insular, Adem's debut captures the oftenunrealized potential of bedroom recording. Avoiding crass emotioneering, it plays as a collection of latenight soliloquies. These are outwardlooking songs of hope and hurt, wrapped in the warmth and familiarity that can only be replicated in the place one calls home. "}