{"label":" Coup D'etat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4133/homepage_large.46886672.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"J-Live","title":"All of the Above","text":" Allow me a moment to restate the painfully obvious: to most of the big record labels, making records equals selling records. There are few moral or artistic victories in the record industry just dreams of platinum hardware and signing the next JLo. Or would that be JLo's hardware and the next platinum record? Hmm... Back to business, though, and our case study: JLive, a formidable MC and producer, and one of brightest talents in hiphop's underground today. After drawing the attention of the suits in the mid90s with fierce underground singles like \"Braggin' Writes\" and \"Hush the Crowd,\" JLive inked a record deal and began to cut his first LP. But owing to myriad artistic and contract squabbles, J won himself a taste of the big shaft. Not a single official copy of the LP saw the light of day until late 2001, nearly five years after the process began. I blame the record labels, defilers of vinyl, bandwidth, and all other things aurally sacred. The Best Part would certainly be close to the top of any hiphop top ten list in any year, even a strong one like 2001. That's over now, though, and JLive has come to a peace about his former predicament (\"I've dealt with being dealt dirty, downsized and duped/Done doublepaid my dues, for real\"). Given the delay, though, you can't blame the guy for making up for lost time. A meager six months after finally dropping The Best Part, JLive has blessed us again with his sophomore LP, All of the Above, though on the eversounderground Coup D'Etat label. And no surprise this shit is tight. JLive describes his lyrical style as \"true school.\" Now, I'm a lily white whiteboy, and I'll admit I have no idea that means. Whatever he was getting at, though, it's clear that this former English teacher (JLive taught seventh grade in Brooklyn) has a serious Native Tongues influence. His delivery is similar to Posdnuos, and his lyrical content is along the same lines: intelligent, educated, confident, and socially conscious. And, like De La, J can bring it. His lyrics are clever, and he does shit with meter and rhyming patterns that is simply mindblowing.  In terms of beats, JLive's knows when to pass the mic, or rather, pass the console. One of his best moves was to enlist the assistance of virtuoso producer DJ Spinna. Spinna dishes dimes on a third of the album's 21 tracks, including two of the strongest, \"Satisfied?\" and \"All of the Above.\" \"Satisfied?,\" the first single off the disc, uses reggaeflavored bass and keys in the verses, then adds lofi accordion in the chorus, in addition to what sounds like a boys choir. Upon closer inspection (and a peek at the liner notes) it's actually grown men (JLive et al) singing \"are you satisfied?\" in falsetto a neat trick. \"All of the Above\" is easily the best track, musically, on the album. The beat has a chilledout, transcendent quality to it, spinning a lowkey jazz funk in the bass along with ethereal keys (courtesy of Ticklah) and shifty scratches in the instrumental chorus (courtesy of DP One). The rhyme is a fucking masterpiece, delivered via doubletracked vocals one more or less the \"melody\" track, with a \"harmony\" track lurking underneath. Sound rich? It is. As if five years of trying to get his debut out weren't proof enough, All of the Above makes it clear that JLive is no flash in the pan. Rather, it gives you the feeling that J is just at the dawn of a fairly epic career. Good things come to those who wait and hopefully, somewhere, a record exec is kicking himself over this one. "}