{"label":" Shitkatapult","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/414/homepage_large.c0ff0572.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Apparat","title":"Silizium EP","text":" The restless creations of prolific Berlinbased Sascha Ring (aka Apparat) have always seemed unfixed and polymorphic even by the transitive standards of experimental IDM, with albums like 2003's Duplex actively oscillating between electronic and acoustic instrumentation as well as various jittery microidioms. Though his techniques have typically resulted in music that is both wildly unpredictable and compulsively listenable, the continual evolution of his productions has left him with few distinctively recognizable sonic trademarks. Perhaps that's beginning to change, however, with the release of Silizium, an unusually refined and focused fivesong minisuite that finds Ring and his collaborators satisfyingly integrating classical elements into melancholic electronica. Originally recorded for a John Peel session at BBC in 2004, Silizium (the German translation for \"Silicon\") features extensive contributions from a string section known as Complexácord, comprised of cellist Lisa Stepf and violinist Kathrin Pfänder. Several tracks also include chilled vocals from electrosoul crooner Raz Ohara, as well as some fiery jazz licks from clarinetist/sax player Hormel Eastwood. Apparat binds these disparate elements together with agitated, frayed beats and spellbinding electronic drones, providing these five uneasy pieces an intense, cohesive urgency. With Ohara's voice carrying its pensive melody, the driving clatter of \"Komponent\" emerges following the brief instrumental \"Introduction\" like an emergency vehicle weaving its way through commuter traffic, while Stepf's spinetingling, attenuated cello notes sound a siren over the din. On the subsequent title track, Eastwood's blaring reeds gradually give way to a simple, repetitive melodic motif from the strings, before Ring huffs and puffs trying to blow the house in with his termiteridden beats. Ohara takes over again on the cinematically taut, insistent \"Not a Good Place\", defiantly keeping his choruses afloat upon a surging tide of fractured keys and strings, before everything finally drains out into the quiet pools of the chamberlike \"It's Gonna Be a Long Walk\". Those five tracks sound like an extended composition, and are further augmented by an adventurous (if somewhat redundant) quartet of remixes. Bus' remix of \"Silizium\" enthusiastically chews everything down to unrecognizably tiny pieces, while Telefon Tel Aviv's take on \"Komponent\" adds enough swirling indiepop texture that it almost resembles a longlost Talk Talk single. Apparat closes things up himself, giving \"Not a Good Place\" one final, yearning spin as its concluding microscopic violin notes flutter off like drowsy fireflies, allowing Silizium at last a hardwon interlude of peace. "}