{"label":" Fat Beats","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4134/homepage_large.65fa07c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hartley Goldstein","artist":"J-Live","title":"Always Will Be EP","text":" Precocious, hyperintellectual emcee JLive is perhaps bestknown for the infamous label woes which kept his mythically bootlegged, classic debut, The Best Part, from hitting record store shelves years after its inception. Thankfully, the fiasco of music business politics didn't put JLive off from recording, and subsequently, he came back fresher than ever with 2002's matured sophomore triumph, All of the Above. The album, which was largely an effective mix of JLive's own cerebral word games, inspired flow, and candid introspection, not only served as a wellearned sign of endurance in the face of the hiphop community and music industry at large, but also marked a colossal evolution in JLive's own sound. In this light, JLive's new EP, Always Will Be (a companion piece to his Always Has Been EP, featuring fresh material) comes as something of a disappointment. The album has a surprisingly lighthearted and indifferent quality to it; it serves as neither a substantial aesthetic devolution nor a marked progression either. While JLive has always worn his oldschool influences on his sleeve, never before have they eclipsed his artistic growth as much as they do here. Part of the reason for this is the fact that JLive chose to selfproduce all of the EP's eight tracks; and while JLive makes for a wondrously impassioned and wellspoken emcee, his production skills rarely match his verbal cunning. DJ Spinna and Usef Dinero's esoteric, soulful instrumentals are resoundingly missing. Tracks like the SugarHill Gang homage \"AddaCipher\" and the tediously ironic \"Get Live\" bounce by on monotonously minimal drum programming, bland keyboard sounds, and lackluster horn samples. While this kind of stripped production does leave more room for JLive's intricate wordplay and rousing delivery to reap the spotlight, it also unfortunately makes him sound inexpressively derivative; instead of innovating the past, JLive now sounds trapped in it. This realization is particularly frustrating since many of the tracks off Always Will Be are conceptually inspired, and feature remarkable performances from JLive on the mic. JLive, who himself is an exschoolteacher, has always demonstrated an overt passion for language; his unrelenting flow weaves an intricate web of verbiage, spinning words into every possible rhythmic and thematic context before moving on to the next line. On the olderschool \"AddaCipher\", JLive boasts, \"There is no simile that's similar enough to capture the imagery of my syllabic symmetry.\" It's a mouthful, but one would never know it hearing JLive deliver the line in such an unfussy manner. On the closing track \"Skip Proof\", which addresses that while he's a fixture in \"underground\" hiphop he has yet to go gold, he muses, \"the only plaques I got is on top my bathroom sink in a bottle I use to fight plaque.\" While on the conceptdriven track, \"Car Trouble\", JLive schools Wordsworth (of Lyricist Lounge infamy) on the pitfalls and perils of getting a record contract, using shopping for a new automobile as an extended metaphor for the whole ordeal; JLive wittily queries, \"Are you a soloist or down with a band, 'cause six in a twoseater's not a good plan.\" Still, despite showcasing JLive's abundant talent, Always Will Be will likely just leave most fans hoping he'll turn back to outside producers. Towards the record's end, on the undulating track \"9000 Miles\", JLive asserts his aesthetic manifesto: \"I can't spit that old rhetoric, I gotta spit ten steps ahead of it.\" And he's right: his wordplay's hovering off into the future; but next time his instrumentals will need to catch up with him. "}