{"label":" Penalty","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4135/homepage_large.114bc3ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"J-Live","title":"The Hear After","text":" Whenever someone says a record is \"Grown Folks Music\" I want to reply, \"dementia is Grown Folks Thinkin', doesn't mean I want a part of either.\" Normally, the GFM evangelist peacocks around fanning his feathers in either defense or exhibition, associating dissent with ignorance. His sermon is \"the essence, the movement.\" Hiphop is HipHop. Deviation is desertion, or worse, collusion. The Fifth Column of the Four Elements. Calm yourself, padre. Like every other genre, hiphop inevitably striated with age; its own Paul McCartneys, Luther Vandrosses, and John Teshes emerged. No, Will Smith is not the answer. There are many answers. Snoop is pioneering Gangstadult. The Roots are morphing into rap's U2, producing reliable, if not necessarily revolutionary, album after album (?uestlove being the charismatic spokesperson for the group and the cause). Kanye may become the Phil Spector of all this with this on and offrecord antics. LL is LL. And fine, Will Smith is John Tesh. A whole cadre of underground artists, who were born too late, caters to this audience, creating a hiphop analogy to the 1990s teenage Deadheads. JLive is part of and apart from the adultcontempo scene, employing its smoothedout boombap and socially conscious themes, but replacing its vexing nostalgia with ornery gravitas. The weary, and thankfully nonpreachy, tone of The Hear After probably has to do with JLive's history. His legendary struggle to release his debut, The Best Part, made him a grizzled vet before most had even heard his record in full. Written and recorded during the height of the underground revolt against gunclapper rappers in the mid to late90s, by the time it was properly released in 2001, The Best Part was a memento, a token of lost opportunity. In the interim, JLive worked as public school teacher in Brooklyn, and his rhymes reflect the patient yet vigilant attitude of every good instructor. He doesn't need to get worked up; just keep plugging away in the hopes that your message will reach just one child. Probably the album's best track, \"Brooklyn Public, Pt 1\" revisits the frustration of his teaching experience, but it also reflects the underground's increasingly futile efforts to convert the masses. Over a schoolrecital piano line, JLive laments, \"Some of them really care about what's being learned and taught/ They fought through it when they got stuck/ Some are there until the bell rings/ Run through the day without thinking 'cause they really don't give a fuck.\" It has become the teachers' code: save the ones you can, hope the other ones don't kill you.  While The Hear After probably won't appeal to the Bapesta Massive, it doesn't really try to either. The pareddown Rootsy production and edutainment factor might appeal more to their parents. \"Listening\" is a businesstrip phone conversation between JLive and his wife, Kola Rock, set to a whirling bass that evokes the comfort of a long engagement. \"Whoever\" is a night out at the neighborhood salsa club with JLive calling out the punks that are not listening. It's also one of the several tracks JLive produced himself, as per usual. What lesson did he learn from his early travails? Use samples owned by your parent label, Ryko, in this case.  There really is no tragedy in JLive's story, though. He was never set to break the mainstream. He's a sidewalk professor, the music more a conveyor of his lessons than an attempt at street anthems. He executes his tutorials with confident aplomb, never currying favor with a demographic that won't look him in his damn eye. It may not sound particularly vigorous or relevant, but neither is your dad. You should call him. Or just keep acting out. "}