{"label":" Gold Standard Laboratories","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4147/homepage_large.6e3cf647.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Jaga Jazzist","title":"Animal Chin","text":" For a country of a scant few million, Norway has a staggeringly deep music scene. A favorite to usurp Nordic comer Iceland and easily outpacing the rockist Swedes next door Norway boasts an interconnected scene of electronica, improv, and avantrock that hasn't yet reached our shores except through imports. That makes Jaga Jazzist's first stateside release, the Animal Chin EP, significant: not only are the band's members tied to dozens of other major Norwegian outfits, they also cram all those strains of music into a single, mindfoggingly dense package. Imagine if someone replaced all the lamps in your house with strobe lights and neon, and you'll get an idea of the kind of claustrophobic overstimulation Jaga Jazzist instill from minute one of this record. Jaga Jazzist have been pegged as a stateoftheart jazzrock \\x93fusiox94 band, a ninepiece (recently upped to ten) that mix conventional jazz instruments a horn section, drums, upright bass and guitar with layers of tightlysequenced synths and keyboards, electronic percussion, vibes and marimba. Yet the band sounds more \\x93jazzy\\x94 than jazz: with the improvisation confined to closelymanaged solos, texture dominates. Sections will stop or switch on a dime, and every instrument sounds rich, the luscious bass clarinets or Martin Horntveth's drums and electronic percussion scattering like a boxful of preciselytuned robots. Think of Steely Dan producing a Tortoise album, or imagine a dottier, loopier Stereolab disc while digging the Latin feel to songs like \\x93Real Racecars Have Doors\\x94, where the band ventures onto a style that comes as naturally to Norwegians, slopping hot salsa on reindeer filets. But the sound may be familiar to fans of 70s jazz fusion: while none of the soloists are showoffs you won't hear a Chick Corea or a John McLaughlin wanking into the spotlight the writing shows a fusionlike tendency to use intricate, knotty melodies that are catchy but impossible to hum along with. The arrangements set them apart, from the title track's bright, brassy horn fills and cascading vibes to \\x93Low Battery\\x94, which has a slower tempo, and even settles from time to time on a simple vamp; \\x93Toxic Dart\\x94 is jumpier, and shredded underneath with glitches. While the songs run a concise few minutes per, they're spliced and melted together from multiple sections containing a dozen ideas each. It's telling that the two remixes which suck up half the album actually sound far less busy than the original songs. Martin Horntveth remixes \\x93Lithuania\\x94 himself and chops up the source, then buries it under an insect swarm of glitchery which effectively steals the show and gives us something simpler to focus on. Meanwhile, the Kim Hiorthøy remix of \\x93Going Dowx94 stretches into a sixteen minute collage of found sound and conversations with a (comparatively) simple drumbeat, all built around a loop of just the first couple bars of the original track's melody, played on acoustic guitar. For its ambition, it's almost boringly simple compared to the rest of the album.Animal Chin is only Jaga Jazzist's first stab at the U. S. market after taking Europe with their Ninja Tune/Smalltown Supersound releases; most of the songs are culled from their two fulllengths and other scattered EPs. As a sampler for new listeners it could leave you intrigued, or even sated. Anyone who's already spent too much time listening to fusion may know the kind of ear candy gutache it can produce, like chowing down a onepound bag of Skittles in one sitting: for the overwhelming taste, you'll get plenty of color coming and going. "}