{"label":" Summersteps","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4154/homepage_large.409735e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Down in a Mirror: A Second Tribute to Jandek","text":" It's been a wild ride lately for Jandek and his small but devoted fanbase, as the past couple of years have seen an unprecedented level of activity from the legendarily reclusive Texan musician. Jandek has been prolific since his 1978 debut Ready for the House, but in the wake of Chad Friedrich's wellreceived 2003 documentary Jandek on Corwood the singer has ramped up his production, releasing four new albums in 2004 and two already in 2005. Most startling of all, however, has been Jandek's recent series of three (so far) live performances in Scotland and England, the firstknown such concerts of his career. These appearances have sent almost literal shockwaves through his fervent fan community; the live dates serving to radically demystify the man and his abstruse, fascinating music. Though much about him remains cloaked in mystery, these live performances have put some of the more outlandish theories about his work (\"He died in Vietnam, and his family is putting the records out as they can afford it\") to rest, while simultaneously sending the strong signal that Jandek remains now what he always has been: a passionate, dedicated artist whose primary intent is for his music to speak for itself. At first glance Jandek might not seem like a ripe candidate for one tribute album, let alone two, due to the idiosyncratic, deeply personalized (a cynic might add atonal or unmusical) nature of his sound. But as Summersteps Records proved on their first such collection, 2000's Naked in the Afternoon, there's something about the unvarnished emotion and dissolute, blankslate structures of Jandek's songs that allows the covering artist enough space to add a new distinctive voice while somehow retaining each piece's essential Jandekness. And Down in a Mirror anchored by stellar performances from its bigger name contributors like Jeff Tweedy, Six Organs of Admittance, and the Mountain Goats again dips generously into the vast Corwood songbook, bringing rich and surprising rewards to the surface. As evidenced by Tweedy's melodic opening version of \"Crack a Smile\", most of the acts here have sensibly transposed Jandek's unorthodox chords and phrases into decidedly more conventional song structures. (Though some stalwart fans have apparently had the patience to attempt a faithful transcription of Jandek's bizarre, dissonant guitar tabs, this has always struck me as a fool's errand.) For his cover of \"The Dunes\" the original of which is one of Jandek's harrowing a cappella pieces Sebadoh's Eric Gaffney adds darkly atmospheric folk instrumentation, while Six Organs' Ben Chasny beautifully captures the bottomless solitude of \"I'll Sit Alone and Think About You\" utilizing his trademark Takomabred virtuosity. Other standouts here include Acid Mothers Temple's Makoto Kawabata recasting \"Babe I Love You\" in dazzling, skyhigh drones, Okkervil River's impassioned take on the obsessive \"Your Other Man\", and Brother JT a man eminently deserving of his own tribute album giving \"Message to the Clerk\" a delightfully dizzy psychfolk spin. Not surprisingly most of the contributors here tend to fall into the scrambled singersongwriter archetype, with Home for the Def's goofy hiphop/rockabilly medley of \"Cave In On You/European Jewel\" probably qualifying as the set's biggest stylistic leap. Unfortunately, the voices contained here are also universally male, giving the listener the perhaps not entirely inaccurate impression that Jandek's fanbase is predominantly a boy's club. (What, you're telling me that women aren't much into spooky loners anymore?) This uniformity of voice and style does risk monotony over the course of the album's 21 tracks, but let's face it, the same thing could be (and has been) said about Jandek's entire back catalog, and that certainly doesn't appear to be bothering his productivity any. "}