{"label":" Ohr","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/417/homepage_large.b5545947.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Amon Düül","title":"Para Dieswärts Düül","text":" Most of German communal outfit Amon Düül's records were culled from a single, epic jam session in the late 60s. What that means for listeners is a vast collection of material that, if you're a fan, never fails to delight. However, since the \"band\" was quickly dwarfed by their mutinous former colleagues in Amon Düül II, their reputation has tended to sag near areas suited more for slightly embarrassing little brothers and mix tapes you made in fifth grade: charming in their way, but otherwise best not brought up in conversation. The most renown Amon Düül record, Psychedelic Underground, is indeed semifascinating in small doses, but after a while, my attention always lapses and the ragged (albeit inspired) performances begin to morph into a formless, meandering goo. Judging the original Amon Düül against their more musically inclined successors, or really any other band, is probably unfair. They might very well hold up as well as any other hippie commune's drum circle cuts would, and given the group's proximity to future krautrock legends should give them an edge. For this reason, 1970's Para Dieswärts Düül is a better yardstick by which to measure their purely musical contributions. Rather than compiling still more hazy footage from group spaceouts, Amon Düül's third record (originally released on the legendary Ohr imprint) features actual songs, very much in a freefolk vein, but with English lyrics, melodies and basic rhythms nonetheless. If you're hoping for a relatively earthbound intro to the band, though, this is still pretty out there and truthfully, I still prefer modern groups like Charalambides to Amon Düül. Still, Repertoire's new reissue of their most easily approachable record reveals that even though they could pull together an album of songs when need be, they weren't necessarily songwriters, or even a terribly interesting group of musicians. The lengthy \"Love Is Peace\", which originally filled all of the LP's first side, highlights the band's penchant for tuneless balladeering and the mileage one can wring from a single chord on captive acoustic guitars. The male vocalist (one of many musicians identified by name on the album, but not according to what they played or sang) reminds me of a more stable Damo Suzuki, though when the group harmonies enter during the \"chorus,\" the band could be any number of psychedelic naturefolk units, one part Donovan, another Tom Bombadil. At one point, everyone stops down to a series of echodrenched guitar arpeggios that do lend the piece a spacy ambience, but can't quite make up for the ensuing seven additional minutes of streamofconsciousness poetry jamming.  It's a shame, because the rest of the record isn't bad. Originally, the (almost) rocking \"Snow Your Thurst\" and genuinely alluring \"Paramechanische Welt\" made up the entire LP, but the reissue includes the melancholy single \"Eternal Flow\" and an alternate, electrified version of \"Welt\" entitled \"Paramechanical World\". Both \"Welt\" and \"World\" are examples of the kind of laidback, sunny folk that works as both psychedelic mantra music and straightforward folkpop, of the kind CSN&Y modified into outright pop and took to the bank. There isn't much in the way of lyrics, but the moaning vocal melodies should be put in a time capsule as perfect examples of the deeply impassioned, disembodied floating lines that have yet to be improved upon since the Age of Aquarius. Whatever you think about the first Amon Düülers, they had flower power down pat.  "}