{"label":" Geffen","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4167/homepage_large.fdea2c6f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Sebela","artist":"Jawbreaker","title":"Dear You [Expanded Edition]","text":" Listening to the newly expanded and finallybackinprint edition of Jawbreaker's Dear You felt like discovering that once upon a time I was a giant asshole. Somewhere between teendom and quasiadulthood, Dear You had been my jam of choice, a big slab of music as irrationally depressed and eager to rock as I was. After listening to it for days and nights and weeks, I began to work backward through the band's catalog. As these albums took prominence, Dear You dropped out of rotation, and eventually wound up on some nameless secondhand store's shelf to inflict its halflife of misery on someone else. Coming off the yelping enthusiasm of Unfun, Bivouac, and the stellar 24 Hour Revenge Therapy whose songs argued the politics of being a legitimate punk Jawbreaker disappointed their indiethrall fanbase by signing to Geffen for a onemilliondollar, threealbum contract, and far worse, selling out their music: Dear You was a slick symphony of guitar and singer Blake Schwarzenbach's soft, postsurgical vocals.Dear You is emo in denial; a tightsweatered cry of loneliness, heartbreak, and wallowing in sadness that apes the band's punk roots. \"Sluttering\" and \"Fireman\" are loveasrevenge songs in the key of Sylvia Plath. \"Jet Black\", a paean to alienation, opens and closes with Christopher Walken's car crash monologue from Annie Hall, converting the clip's original surrealistic humor into more grist for the whiny mill. And while these songs admittedly held fast to Jawbreaker's melodic chops, it's clear the band had dulled their edge to appeal to the radiofriendly commercial punk explosion that dominated the mid90s airwaves. The problem with Dear You wasn't Jawbreaker's decision to renege on their longstanding antimajorlabel policy, but that the album, plainly, is a dramatic step down in quality from Revenge Therapy, despite the fact that it took much longer to record. Songs often wander too long, and their lyrics strain for depth in pursuit of the album's overall sadsack mood. Unlike Van Morrison's Astral Weeks, whose fatalistic tone ends at a culdesac into rebirth, or Lou Reed's unapologetically despairing Berlin, Dear You waffles between manic and depressive, unsure of which it wants to be. Tracks like \"Chemistry\", \"Save Your Generation\" and \"Bad Scene, Everyone's Fault\" do manage to inject a small dose of joy into the proceedings, but are obscured by the frantically waving arms of a drowning band. Even \"Basilica\", a seemingly redemptive number with a more positive outlook, meanders, droning and repeating its vaguely threatening request, \"I'm asking you on a date for the rest of your life.\" That Dear You killed Jawbreaker is no surprise, given how little it sold by majorleague standards, and how divisively fans reacted to it. The question is: What happened to the band that merged ragged perfectionism with lyrics that read like fiction? This expanded edition offers no answers. No new ground is covered here for fans of the original release, though the inclusion of \"Sister\" and the Psychedelic Furs cover \"Into You Like a Train\" are quick and dirty little gems. The eventually tiresome \"Friendly Fire\" is as close to a transition between Revenge Therapy and Dear You as you're likely to find, but are also available on the band's somewhat more worthwhile Etc. collection. Only the throwaway \"Shirt\" has been previously unissued, and it, along with a baffling, unnecessary remake of \"Boxcar\", illustrates that the disintegration of Jawbreaker was not worth mourning, especially with so many bands gladly assuming their former position in the underground. "}