{"label":" ~scape","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4186/homepage_large.04740bdd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Jan Jelinek Avec the Exposures","title":"La Nouvelle Pauvreté","text":" Every musician wants his own sound. I would imagine that in electronic music, the desire to carve a unique sonic identity into the endless wall of digital possibilities is even stronger. Simply put, with the amount of music being produced today, it's difficult to stand out, and the number of people who have created a distinct musical fingerprint in the last few years is relatively small. You can always tell Pole when you hear him (although, judging by his new EP, that's about to change). Same goes for Boards of Canada, Gas, Drexciya, and Aphex Twin. And way up on that list of laptoppers with an immediately identifiable sound is Jan Jelinek.Whether he's recording as Farben, Gramm, or under his own name, Jelinek always jumps out of the speakers. I reckon the laptop set has roughly equal access to all the sound design and processing software out there, but Jelinek is doing things with his programs that other artists haven't considered. He has an almost preternatural ability to burrow inside glitches and surface noise and emerge with the emotional heart of the sound.His fondness for jazz, which becomes more apparent with each record, is not a love of live improvisation, despite his recent Computer Soup collaboration's indications to the contrary; it's a love for the stacks of dusty, grimy, crackly vinyl artifacts of the postbop era, a record collector's view of jazz history. One imagines Jelinek getting chills from a chewedup copy of some late 60s combo featuring electric piano, that something in the hisses, pops and wavering tone of an unsteady turntable must have touched his soul.Jelinek's record referencing continues with La Nouvelle Pauvreté, his followup to 2001's Loopfindingjazzrecords after last year's Textstar, a stunning collection of Farben EPs. (Jelinek's addition of the fictional \"Exposures\" finds him indulging in the dry German humor shared by Atom Heart and Burnt Friedman.) The record begins with the twominute \"Introducing\", a gradually swelling gurgle of dread that ends abruptly with the sound of applause, and then \"Music to Interrogate By\" quickly drops into a groove.It's a classic Jelinek track in a housey, Farbenesque vein, driven by an acoustic bass riff, sampled ride cymbals, and a spacey electric piano melody. On the one hand, it almost seems as though a band could be playing, but Jelinek has a way of distorting the sonic signifiers in a way that makes you unsure of exactly what you're hearing. The mix is weird odd pops seem to bump the instruments aside, and the acoustic space just doesn't seem of this earth. The applause that starts the track reappears twice, at the end of what could be considered \"solos.\" It's a brilliant and funny device, suggesting with a wink that \"Music to Interrogate By\" is the work of some band working a Village Vanguard in a parallel universe.When I listened to La Nouvelle Pauvreté for the first time, halfway through \"Music to Interrogate By\", I decided that this was my album of the year. This was premature, though, as the rest of the record, while still very strong, doesn't make my jaw drop like that second track. What the album is, though, is a surprisingly varied work, incorporating new sounds and elements while remaining identifiably Jelinek. He's clearly experimenting, trying to figure out how to build on his already considerable accomplishments, and more often than not he succeeds.The most noticeable addition here is Jelinek's voice, which appears in some form on about half the tracks. \"Facelift\" features an oddly processed doubled vocal, an octave apart, mumbling something I can't quite understand. Underneath are a series of metallic taps, some clicks, and a deceptively funky acoustic bass. \"There Are Other Worlds (They Have Not Told You Of)\" has Jelinek sculpting feedback in a tuned, rhythmic drone as his dark vocals intone the title, singing this time. It's actually quite effective and borders on great if Coil invented gothic glitch, Jelinek brings it into the 21st Century. \"Trust the Words of Stevie\" is less successful, with Jelinek deadpanning, \"Do I love you/ I swear I do,\" in a kind of pseudosoul loverman voice that doesn't quite work as either parody or the real thing, even if the backing music is typically fantastic.Two more standout instrumentals ensure La Nouvelle Pauvreté's greatness. \"If's, And's and But's\" uses some primo 70s soul samples primarily some disco strings, flute and an electric bass that Jelinek shapes into a nimble, bubbly pattern. The sublime \"Davos S (Trio 'Round Midnight)\" employs guitar samples to construct an homage to the gentle, reflective jazz of someone like Jim Hall. There are more odd string samples, which, when combined with drum programming that sounds like a digital ghost of a bongo, turns the piece into a Lynchian dream of the 50s West Coast sound.La Nouvelle Pauvreté is not a perfect album and doesn't poke its head out quite the way either Loopfindingjazzrecords or Textstar did, but I'm glad to hear Jelinek shuffling the deck a bit. His conception of sound, which is one of the most breathtakingly original and creative going, also proves itself to be robust and adaptable to experiment. "}