{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4197/homepage_large.d6d8d4dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brent DiCrescenzo","artist":"The Jesus Lizard","title":"Bang","text":" It's pretty weird that there are no bands like the Jesus Lizard around anymore. Their formula isn't difficult to figure out herculean, facepunching bass, meatgrinding guitars, lumberandcement drums, and a reckless, penisexposing singer who gargles the microphone. (Though, some Jersey kids in Rye Coalition have almost cracked the code.) The absense of cacophonous, pissdrinking, steelchewing rock sums up the current climate. Young musicians seem hesitant to frighten and discomfort. The grail of indie rock these days is an erasable hook, odd time signatures, and/or trembling beauty. The Jesus Lizard wanted to chisel bone and blister tissue. Even in Chicago, the birthplace of this rusty genre, the sound seems to have died out with Lustre King. Yet loud, obnoxious music rules the charts these days. The Jesus Lizard never slapped their bass. They never wore warmups. There was no DJ. David Yow never rapped. The guys were certainly loud and obnoxious, practically threatening, but there was a visceral charge in listening to their titanic pulse their sheer volume majestic. Nestled between the Fall's growling stomp and Shellac's akimbo attack, the Jesus Lizard earned the reputation of \"the best live band.\" This was due mostly to belligerence and precision. Mac McNeilly summoned John Bonham, treating each drum like the DEA treats a crackhouse door. David Wm. Sims needed one Estring and a pick to put tremble in your duodonem. Duane Denison cauterized the damage with guitar. Their simplicity allowed room for attitude.Bang, a looseends collection of 7\"s and compilation tracks, contains several live tracks. While not as imposing as their previous live album, Show, they nonetheless only hint at the power. There's little difference between live and studio versions, as Steve Albini essentially perfectly put the sweat and gristle to analog tape. Lizard classics like \"Gladiator,\" \"Killer McHann,\" and \"Seasick\" sear in these live versions. Rare treats such as the two Trio covers demonstrate the band's sense of humor and pop/newwave affections. Fortunately, neither of these songs are \"Da Da Da.\" For those unfamiliar with the band's body of work, Bang offers their best songs from the preCapitol days with a mix of live and studio versions. It's essentially like Show packaged with a greatest hits. Which makes it pretty inessential for preordained fans. But something tells me the 2000 release of Bang serves only to remind and recruit in the new decade. No arguments here. The Jesus Lizard were one of the loudest, tightest, toughest rock bands ever. They were the Stooges of the 90's. And we don't have to worry about David Yow making solo albums like Avenue B. "}