{"label":" Apestaartje","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/421/homepage_large.5b70bfec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Aero","title":"Rises and Falls","text":" I first became aware of the Apestaartje label (which is the Dutch word for the @ symbol, translating roughly as \"monkey tail\") through a curious field recording of mics encased in blocks of ice as they melted and fissured. Although the humble label (which houses each CD in a thin card case and whose CD face contains concentric circles as its main design motif) excels more in documenting an intimate scene of unassuming folks combining acoustic instrumentation with gentle washes of electronic processes, the closest parallel I could draw would be to the similarly grounded Häpna label out of Sweden. Aero is the double for label cofounder Koen Holtkamp and his own such explorations, and his latest release keeps with the modus operandi of the catalog to excellent effect. Fellow labelmate Brendon Anderegg helps open the disc with a hesitant bit of banjo plucking. The initial association might be to someone like The Books, but as the drone of the harmonium (or is it melodica?) swells and swallows up the sound in a dreamy gauze, there's little adherence to folk forms or tricky cutediting, much less the shapes and sounds of the physical instrument itself. Instead, sonic distillation is Aero's intent; the warmth of each blended element and how it permeates the whole is the focus. Expanding out over the course of 11 minutes, \"Rises\" runs the twangs of Anderegg's guitar and what could be a pedal steel through the dream machine, so that they flicker past like a Kansas cornfield in the middle of a car nap. The drift of the track becomes blurry but remains snug as it morphs into \"Falls\", with its more openly aired echoes that encase each bit of piano and guitar and give them more room to radiate. Velocity finally happens to the sputtering bits of \"Rinse\", but as the increasingly unidentifiable sources are further reduced to abstract snaps, crackles and pops, we find ourselves plunked in the abstract spaces of \"Coast\", aware that the borders between each fivelettered track name are mere indicators of where we might be in the disc itself. There is notable fuzz and ball of stylus fluff on \"Aug31\" and an embryonic fluidity to its neighboring \"Float\", but they're slight alterations in a holistic entity, fluctuating ratios of sound and processing pressure. The traces of instrumentation gleaned at the start are further elucidated yet also freed from their encumbering sources as the disc moves along. Aero's alembiclike attentions to the greater project of brining in time is not content to just dissolve it all into an ambient puddle. "}