{"label":" Landspeed","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4204/homepage_large.3dd31e6f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Jigmastas","title":"Infectious","text":" In 1964, Sociologist Ruth Glass coined the term \"gentrification\" to describe, loosely, the process whereby rich people \"discover\" an interesting workingclass neighborhood, then drive up rents until \"most of the original workingclass occupiers are displaced and the whole social character of the district is changed.\" It's a sad phenomenon, but one that seems to have pervaded even the music industry; for example, look what happened to the blues, formerly the domain of forlorn, loveless sages like Muddy Waters and Robert Johnson. Nowadays, you can record with Babyface, and still have the \"blues\" (see Eric Clapton). In the same vein, when Rod Stewart, once the purveyor of gritty, determined R&B; (see the Faces), discovered spandex, the masses discovered him, and he began his own gradual retardation. Unfortunately, in a different sense, gentrification also corrupted hiphop. Back in the Golden Era of the late 80s and early 90s, hiphop borrowed liberally from the pop and funk catalog of the prior decades, churning out beats that were at times fierce (Eric B and Rakim, Kool G Rap and DJ Polo), at times jazzy (A Tribe Called Quest, Brand Nubian) and at times political (Public Enemy, Boogie Down Productions). It sounded good and it meant something, but most of all, it was accessible. A DJ didn't need a bankroll to sample \"Funky Drummer\" (which remarkably found its way onto over 150 tracks). Enter Gilbert O'Sullivan. Upset that Biz Markie and other young black men were making money, O'Sullivan decided he wanted a piece of the action. In 1991, he sued the Biz for his sample of O'Sullivan's 1972 love ballad, \"Alone Again (Naturally).\" Naturally, Markie lost the lawsuit, and naturally, that put the brakes on the breaks, so to speak unless artists obtained permission, and paid stiff premiums, the law deemed sampling to be theft. The only ones left with the means to pay for samples were major labels. Thus, while P. Diddy could lift anything from the Police's \"Every Breath You Take\" to Led Zeppelin's \"Kashmir,\" working class artists were priced out of the beat market. Left \"beatless,\" just as the workingclass were left homeless, hiphop was effectively gentrified. Amidst gentrification, some DJs languished, but others just dug deeper. Count among the beatminers DJ Spinna, mastermind of Brooklyn's underground duo Jigmastas, whose debut LP, Infectious, sports some of the most creative, palatable grooves recorded in years. And deep for Spinna is pretty damn deep; fuck Gilbert O'Sullivan we're talking tapdancinginstructiondeep; the basic steps of a tap teacher, and her cryptic marching orders, form the backbone for the album's best (and maybe the year's best) jam, \"Don't Get It Twisted.\" \"Twisted\" is reminiscent of postPuba Brand Nubian, not just in the Sadat X cameo, but definitely in the groove. With the same kind of danceable, straightup funk track that drove tunes like \"The Travel Jam,\" the song is emblematic of Spinna's talents; every element of every song plays a part in the groove. Even his obscure samples (tap dance, tower bells) embellish drum breaks, introduce melody, or add ambience. It's almost too seamless to be underground. \"Lyrical Mastery\" is another Spinna masterpiece. The song builds around a sparse, syncopated sixnote organ riff and a simple breakbeat funky enough to chill your spine. The highlight reel rolls at the chorus, which is built from snippets of classic raps (nine in total, though not all recognizable). Unbelievably, the fabricated chorus not only rhymes, but makes sense. Lest we forget, the beneficiary of Spinna's beats, and the other half of Jigmastas, is a talented MC named Kriminul. Kriminul has a quick, clear, tenor delivery that doesn't call too much attention to itself, but blends in nicely with Spinna's production style. Kriminul's rhymes are usually intelligent and witty, although they occasionally suffer moments of blandness (being played by women, the police, other MCs). I'd set the \"dopetowack\" ratio on Kriminul's rhymes at about 3:1. Krim is by far at his most vapid on \"Hollar,\" featuring a guitar cameo by Living Colour's Vernon Reid, which laments racial profiling with the chorus, \"Why are you stressing me, wasting all my time?/ Time is money, why you searching through my ride?/ Cuz' I was cruising, minding my business/ What was I doing?/ You make me wanna hollar.\" As mentioned, though, Krim hits the target about 75% of the time, which is more than you can say for most MCs. As it goes, gentrification ruins the old neighborhood. But the old \"neighbors\" have to go somewhere. The Jigmastas went underground, and have come forth with an LP as listenerfriendly as it is creative and funky. This time, we can only hope that the tapdance industry doesn't gentrify the underground. "}