{"label":" Absolutely Kosher","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4207/homepage_large.77b73d61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Yancey Strickler","artist":"The Jim Yoshii Pile-Up","title":"Jim Yoshii Pile-Up","text":" The photograph is dated June of 1967. On the back, it says \"Manda White House\" in penciled cursive. A Spanish style, two stories, vines growing across the railing of the balcony. It looks like California.I didn't find this in a scrapbook, an old photo album, or a newspaper clipping. This photograph was Elmerglued to the front cover of the new record from the Jim Yoshii PileUp. Not printed on, not drawn on, but glued by hand. For some of you, this may be all you need a record so lofi, so DIY, and so indie that the band sat up all night in their garage gluing old Kodaks to the cover of their record. But I'm not writing to you I'm writing to people like me who are sick of lofi, a sound whose aesthetics take more studio time to perfect than if a band just sat down and produced the damn album. People have used cushioned toilet seats as bass drums. Nice gimmick, but how does it sound?The Jim Yoshii PileUp would never pull that stunt. If lofi is banging on toilet seats then this album is a velvettopped throne. It's soft and gorgeous as opposed to tape hiss and drenched reverb, these guys pull out clean guitars, restrained beats, rolling bass, and whispering vocals and it could be the soundtrack for the most relaxing bath you've even taken. Trust me. Put away the candles and whale sounds.But the Jim Yoshii PileUp isn't all candlelit baths (or as I call them, Friday nights without a date). The guys crank it up a notch on songs like \"Harmless Hobby or Bicycle Crash\", a song with the best build since Slint's \"Washer\". It opens with the low rumble of a fiery bass and a fierce staccato guitar line. Three minutes in, the dissonance arrives. Clashing riffs culminate into an overwhelming crescendo before Yoshii's voice reenters the mix, calming the struggle.Looking at the cover photograph, it somehow makes sense. The same way that \"Everybody's Talkin'\" worked so well in Midnight Cowboy. A slow pan from one window to the next, peering in the shutters for the forbidden sight of a naked girl as echoing Gibsons climax. The rhythm matches the slow turn to the photographer, lovelorn and looking for a way in. As he makes up his mind, resolutely walking to the front door, the camera clicks, the record ends, and the uncertainty begins. "}