{"label":" Record Label, 2000","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4222/homepage_large.b9cd3b03.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Joan of Arc","title":"Presents: Guitar Duets","text":" Yup, another record by perennial Chicago snobrock pissing alley Tim Kinsella(s) and his rotating cast of enablers. It's Presents Guitar Duets, in which 10 once/current Joan of Arc members draw names out of a trucker hat to noodle us some, hey, guitar duets. The project would seem stinkyripe for a haha 'forktongued concept review  quick, get me the top 10 PFM crits ever to give it to Kinsella with a sandpaper Durex but seriously, why do we hate this guy again? More to the point: Why does anyone even care? The venerable Brent D. was asked a similar question not a fortnight ago by his hunchbacked Hungarian masseuse, Ivanka. She confessed a lingering enjoyment of the first Cap'n Jazz record, the one you couldn't even get until it was reissued. She intently rubbed Brent's thigh. The new disc, she said, just seemed so relentlessly inessential 10 percussionless, mathy, Brown Linepaced instrumental tendrils meandering about more like exercises than performances. Sure, Ivanka swayed slightly to the first two tracks the ones redolent with the autumnrain acoustic guitar of Record Label bankroller Bobby Burg, the guy behind overlooked naïvepop vehicle the Love of Everything. But her work suffered over the next two duets, she gave her clients spasms during the swordfishtromboner clingclang of track 5 (\"Nate Kinsella/Ben Vida\") and set her Tazoswigging receptionist napping by the beeping climax of track 8 (\"Todd Mattei/Tim Kinsella\"). Recently laid off from a local unicorn abortion clinic, William Bowers' new personal trainer, DuKowski, had other ideas. Turns out things could be, have been, much, much worse. For instance: Instrumentals mean never having to hear Kinsella whine. And using the guitarists' names in song titles at least spares us Kinsella's usual flailing intellectualisms. DuKowski asked Bowers if he could feel the burn. No, but he could feel a blister, and with that turned up the volume on Chase the Devil: Religious Music of the Appalachians. Kinsella, ca. 2001: \"Why can't we stop all this blowjobishness?\" What else: A general postpostrock malaise hangs over the whole affair, punchable as the Album Leaf, interspersed with academic John Faheyisms, clipped Michael Hedges and creaking, repetitive selfindulgence that can be heard all the way in Currituck County, Brooklyn. Almost dig the detuned finale, though. Pfork's Spencer Owen wept, Nick Mirov went on to review the Goo Goo Dolls, and one time I was in the same café as Julianne Shepherd. Anyway, who was Camilo Arturo Leslie? Brian Howe plays well with others and could probably 'splain you my quoteunquote concept: Presents: Guitar Duets is exactly this insular, somnolent and unnecessary. As for David Moore, he moved overseas and was never heard from after rhapsodizing about the (Joan of) Arcade Fire. "}