{"label":" Bar/None","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4239/homepage_large.65d6bab9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Freedy Johnston","title":"The Way I Were","text":" Like a scrawny kid who learns to outsmart the playground bullies, Freedy Johnston has had to overcome his offputting voice high, nasal, and with a tendency to overenunciate with tremendous songwriting and storylines whose power derive from their graceful understatement. His songs draw listeners in despite his rough vocals, which he describes in the liner notes to The Way I Were, his new collection of early demos, as \"singing, bleating, whinging, and reedlike croaks.\" But like Bob Dylan's, Johnston's voice, unpolished as it is, ultimately becomes part of the attraction: It gives his music an edge of actuality so that the songs seem to belong not to the province of studios and smallclub tours, but to the real world of his listeners. This contrast between crafted songs and strained vocals is what made Can You Fly? and This Perfect World, his two most wellknown albums, so remarkable and made the tragically underrated Never Home jumpy and raw. But as Johnston's voice either matured or was smoothed over in a crossover attempt as on his most recent albums, Blue Days Black Nights and Right Between the Promises an essential component of the equation was lost. So it's reassuring that Johnston has at this point in his career decided to release The Way I Were, whose 14 songs were recorded on a fourtrack betweeb 1986 to 1992. Not only does it serve as a reminder of what made him so compelling in the first place, but it also indicates that Johnston hasn't forgotten that he can turn his supposed weaknesses into strengths. Packed with songs that sound like they were made up on the spot, The Way I Were is Johnston's best release in years. Part of the album's appeal is its endearing goofiness and whythehellnot spontaneity. As witty and imaginative as they are, even Johnston's best records aren't exactly jovial, but The Way I Were exhibits a keen sense of humor, from its Streisantic title to the cassettetape artwork to the silliness of \"Happy Birthday\", in which Johnston duets with himself. On \"This Really Happened\", he recounts an eventful night at a bar called the Trouble Tree (which provided a name for his first album) and repeatedly interrupts himself to warble drunkenly, \"Long ago, and oh so far away!\" And \"The Enchanted Car\" would be a tossoff if not for its enchanted bass line and the cracked humor with which Johnston sings the phrase \"she's a canceled coupe.\" The album's basic recording technology complements this sense of fun, even as it adds gritty gravity to tracks like \"Light of Doubt\" and \"When the Cryin's Done\". In this fourtrack setting, Johnston pares his songs down to their essential elements; untouched by studio polish or professional solemnity, the songs sound direct and immediate. Even so, Johnston is still sonically adventurous: The tongueincheek \"Love Songs About Girls\" has a flamenco flourish and \"I Can't Stop Shaking\" dices his vocals on its chorus. Johnston works well within these confines, which were admittedly the result of circumstances rather than of a specific aesthetic approach. He recorded these songs in his early twenties, after he had moved from Lawrence, Kan., to New York City, but before he signed with Bar None and sold family farmland to pay for Can You Fly? and its tour as well as before he felt the fadeout of two poorly received albums. His youthful optimism comes across on every track: The Way I Were is a selfportrait of an artist with all the ups and downs of his career still ahead of him. "}