{"label":" Recommended","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/425/homepage_large.213976a2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Art Bears","title":"Art Box","text":" For all the renewed interest of rock music from the late 70s and early 80s, one sect gone unheralded are artdamaged and experimental European rock bands. A few have been given decent due: This Heat, Pere Ubu, Suicide, and other NYC bands like DNA were among the most forwardthinking outfits of the day, yet possessed all the immediacy of the greatest punk bands. In England, This Heat weren't only inspired by the same air of change and angry resistance that fueled early punk, but were also wellinformed by an already rich history of artrock through bands like The Residents, Faust and Captain Beefheart. They were certainly aware of the archetypical avantprog group Henry Cow, as well. Like the aforementioned bands, Henry Cow played music that was mostly unprecedented before their existence, and likewise shared an outsider ideal, even if they weren't ingratiated into the same circles after punk broke. Drummer Chris Cutler and guitarist Fred Frith were core members of Henry Cow, who had collaborated with German singer Dagmar Krause's band, Slapp Happy, on a pair of albums in the mid70s. Krause brought a highly distinctive vocal presence to the band, one both wildly idiosyncratic (witness her various shrieks, growls and unclassifiable utterances throughout the Art Bears catalog) and schooled in traditional European art songs, particularly those of Kurt Weill and Bertold Brecht. With her voice and phrasing, she managed to singlehandedly unify lengthy works that might have otherwise lapsed into typically arch, classically structured Cow pieces. When Krause joined the band on a permanent basis, it was only natural that they should gravitate towards something more like \"songs.\" The musicians who would become Art Bears began recording their first album, Hopes and Fears, before the band even formally existed. In January 1978, Cutler, Frith, Krause, Georgie Born, Lindsay Cooper and Tim Hodgkinson went to Switzerland with the intent to cut the fifth Henry Cow album at Etienne Conod's Sunrise Studio. However, when it became apparent that Cutler's shorter songs (along with Krause's vocals) weren't going to result in anything resembling a Henry Cow album, Cutler, Frith and Krause simply decided to rename themselves Art Bears, and with the others, agreed to record different, instrumental pieces for what would become Henry Cow's final album, 1979's Western Culture. And then they decided to disband Henry Cow altogether. In addition to songs initially worked on as Henry Cow, the Art Bears' core trio recorded four songs with electronics and studio whiz David Vorhaus (of White Noise) in London. The band's insistence on trying to push the boundaries of narrative forms and studio technology is typical of their drive to produce \"art music,\" while sharing many attitudes with concurrent punk and postpunk musicians, yet differing completely in their response. Hopes and Fears covers everything from suicide and world politics to witchhunts and an allegory of the maze and that's just the first four songs. Beginning with a cover of Hans Eisler and Brecht's \"On Suicide\", Hopes and Fears makes no secret of its eccentricity. Unlike Henry Cow, group improvisation and lengthy modernclassical asides are deemphasized at the hands of songs and Cutler's textdelivered messages. \"The Dividing Line\" is a tense, darkly realized piece wherein Krause delivers a plea of, \"O give me the order and I'll cross the border/ I don't want to be where I am,\" in reference to citizens kept under watch by a military state. Cutler's muffled drums pound away in the background while distorted organ and Cooper's oboe play dissonant counterpoint. It might have been \"progressive,\" but it certainly wasn't \"progressive rock.\" \"In Two Minds\" does erupt into a Wholike fury at one point, but is for the most part a bleak, understated take on folk balladry about an adolescent committed because her parents deem \"she is clearly not herself.\" Else, Hopes and Fears sounds very much of the RIO tradition (such as it was), with angular, intricate woodwind lines and avantprog textures. \"Terrain\" is an instrumental that could well have fit on Henry Cow's classically tinged Western Culture, though is still clearly a songbased piece. \"Moeris Dancing\" sounds similar to Belgium's Univers Zero in its use of Eastern European folk rhythms and harmonies, but also to latter70s Magma as Krause doubles the instrumental melody with a wordless, eerily wavering vocal. If this album still holds relatively true to ideas suggested by Henry Cow and their peers, subsequent releases would be singularly unique. At the end of 1978, Art Bears went back to Sunrise Studios to make their second album, Winter Songs. Cutler had a concept for the record, which would be the first recording made from scratch with Art Bears in mind: His words were based on basreliefs (threedimensional figures carved into wood or stone) from the Central Porch of Amiens Cathedral. The LP jacket contained small pictures of the carvings next to their respective songs, though Cutler's texts range from literal translations of the image (\"The Bath of Stars\", \"First Things First\") to abstract or political prose (\"Gold\", \"Three Figures\"). Frith's music, though written only shortly prior to the recording, runs the gamut of styles from abrasive rock (\"The Slave\") to folk (\"The Hermit\") to impressionist, experimental electronic (\"Man and Boy\"). However, throughout, the band displays a more focused approach than on Hopes and Fears, and Conod's studio techniques are in magnificent display. \"The Bath of the Stars\" begins with cathedral organ and Krause's declaration, \"He steps from a crucible, held by an angel\" (referring to the boy in the accompanying carving), doubled by her own whisper, and sounding not unlike something Björk might try during a particularly adventurous moment. Frith's piano and organ clusters give the short piece a pastoral quality all but obliterated by \"First Things First\", wherein Krause's odd, reversed vocals are driven by dissonant guitar and eventually overtaken by the sludgy, downcast pound of drums and piano. However, even that doesn't prepare me for the abrasive avanthardcore of \"Rats and Monkeys\". There, Krause's highregister mantra, \"Rats and monkeys crowd the city as it crumbles into ruin, walls are loosening, true, but gates are blocked!\" pierces like a siren over a battering ram of explosive percussion and chaotic guitar. When the piece literally explodes for a furious coda of all manner of noise and effects, most folks will either squeal with delight or recoil in horror. Winter Songs can be an intimidating experience, but one that's never without a core of compassion and morality.The World As It Is Today, originally released in 1981, is my favorite Art Bears release, and arguably one of the best collections of experimental rock songs ever recorded. Despite having to endure a particularly difficult tour of Eastern Europe after their second album (including a nearriotous gig in Prague), and frustrating difficulty arranging to have Krause sing with the band on a new release, Art Bears reconvened at Conod's studio in Switzerland during the late summer, 1980. This time around, Cutler's texts dealt in much more overtly political reams than on Winter Songs, doubtlessly influenced by his opposition to the onset of Thatcherism in England, and Reagan's America. In Cutler's view, the idealism and creative freedom at an apex during the late 60s was subsumed by survivalist economics and the Age of the Impersonal. His feelings are reflected in song titles like \"Truth\", \"Democracy\", and \"The Song of the Dignity of Labour Under Capital\". Again, Conod's way with the studio lends considerable depth to the songs: The potentially hamfisted protest of \"The Song of the Martyrs\" (sample lyric: \"Were we martyred to finish with all forms of slavery forever, only to witness our offspring complacent and bought off with scraps?\") begins as a backdrop of cymbals splashing in reverse and ominous rolls of thundercrescendos over which Krause plays the role of dead idealist questioning the state of the world. Her voice stays mostly in the higher range, where every syllable is as close to crying as it is to singing. On the loping, jagged \"Freedom\", she sings in chorus, \"I saw multitudes forced from the land, cleared for the wool, dispossessed, refugees who were told to be free,\" with such satirical, bitter edge as to make me cringe. And then she really lets you have it: Over a scraping, nearatonal guitar solo from Frith, Krause lets out a shriek that spans almost twofull minutes. Of course, a lot of old prog fans ran for the hills, but let anyone who doubts the passion behind this music be subject to her wail. In addition to the three studio albums, the newly released Art Box contains three discs of remixes, live tracks and unreleased songs. The twodisc Art Bears Revisited set contains remixes by folks like Otomo Yoshihide, John Oswald, The Residents, Bob Drake, Biota, Jon Rose, and Christian Marclay. Fans will be interested in hearing fresh interpretations of the songs, though two discs is probably a bit much to wade through for the uninitiated. Cutler's own Three Bear Rooms piece uses bits of multiple songs and comes out like a beatheavy experimental triphop piece, sort of like This Heat's \"24Track Loop\" slowed down by half. Jon Leidecker/Wobbly spins \"Winter/War\" and \"Force\" into similarly \"out\" dance music, though also turns a few neat tricks with Krause's vocals. Fans will also want to hear the live tracks on the last disc of the box, especially \"The Song of Investment Capital Overseas\" from 1984, featuring an expanded lineup including Tom Cora and trombonist George Lewis. Beginners may not feel so hot about laying down $70 for a box set of a band they've never heard before, and even longtime fans will probably be more interested in the studio albums than the bonus material. However, this band is well deserving of the deluxe reissue treatment: Art Bears not only spoke for the best of the canon, but their music also sounds almost as ahead of the curve today as it did twenty years ago. Not many others can make such a claim, and those that can (say, Can or Kraftwerk) are rightly revered. Art Bears were that good. "}