{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4266/homepage_large.ef0b0bec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Steffen Basho-Junghans","title":"Waters in Azure","text":" Earlier today, I overheard this kid talking about how much he hated the accordion. My curiosity piqued, I craned my head slightly in his direction to hear how he'd justify his blanket disgust for all music produced by this one unfortunate instrument, and through a wall of halfchewed food he provided this: \"Cause, you know, it sounds like shit.\" \"That's it?\" I thought. Surely there must be something deeper. But as he and his friends went on talking, it became pretty clear that this guy didn't even really know what an accordion could do. He seemed to limit its range solely to polka and romantic French guys on Paris street corners busking for change. I'd wager dollars to donuts he's never really sat back and thought about the fact that the instrument does a lot more than that. It shows up on Calexico albums playing ambient backdrops, and just today I heard a man playing one to such beautiful effect in Harvard Square that I actually stopped to listen for a bit and threw some change in his case. My point is that this kid I overheard at lunch today really had no idea what he was talking about he was just relying on limited information to make a snap judgment on an instrument's capabilities. I didn't bother saying anything to him, but it got me thinking about all the great music that never would have been made if more people thought about musical instruments that way. If Bartok had just stuck to writing for the violin the same way everyone before him had, we never would have had his amazing string quartets or \"Music for Strings, Percussion & Celeste.\" Likewise for the steelstring acoustic guitar. Though in most minds it was considered primarily for accompanying a singer or another instrumentalist, a trio of guitarists recording for the Takoma label changed all that in the early 60s. Together, John Fahey, Robbie \"Basho\" Robinson, and Leo Kottke expanded the lexicon of the steelstringed acoustic guitar well beyond what most people at the time could have imagined. It was possible mostly because the three guitarists actively tried to expand their instrument's language and refused to recognize its perceived limitations. This is where a young German named Steffen Basho Junghans comes in (you may recognize the Basho from the names above it's Junghans' tribute to his principal mentor). On his second American release (he has several others in his homeland, though all are out of print), Junghans seems poised to take up the mantle established by those three all those years ago. He approaches the acoustic guitar from every conceivable angle, milking its sonic capabilities for every last unique sound he can drag out of it, and the results are frequently stunning. On Waters in Azure, Junghans builds on the precedent of his earlier works like Song of the Earth, which dealt with instrumental development of elemental themes: fire, air, earth, and water. Here Junghans focuses on water only, crafting four pieces of solo guitar music that alternately flow freely, sit icy and static or envelop like a dense vapor. His liner notes reference the threepart opening suite \"Water\" as a rumination on the different characteristics of water, and what at first sounds remarkably pretentious actually turns out to be somewhat accurate. Playing a 12string guitar with a slide, he moves between slippery portamentos, odd fret noise and rapid tremolo picking easily, putting his unique slide technique on full display. Beginning quietly, as though mimicking the approach of a rainstorm, the piece slowly creeps in, before Junghans drops in unexpectedly violent plucks that seem to represent splashes in puddles. \"Outside the Rain\" finds Junghans exploring percussive tapping, as well as offering lush, more traditionalsounding harmonic ideas, albeit played in a highly unconventional tuning. Its freeflowing, organic beauty makes it the album's best piece the strumming and chords are subtle, but his hard attack gives the composition a rhythmic surge seemingly at odds with that subtlety. That duality makes for a thoroughly engaging listen. The two pieces for sixstring guitar, \"One No1\" and \"Azure No1\" are both textural studies, the former creeping quietly from movement to movement on a minimal structure, while the latter at first sounds as though your CD player is skipping. The approach to the second piece actually has more in common with Steve Reich's phase music pieces than it does with anything that ever came out on Takoma.  The only unfortunate thing about this album is that it occasionally has a tendency to drag. As an ambient background for whatever happens to be consuming your time, it's really never objectionable at all, but in terms of active listening, certain passages can become a bit tiresome, mostly due to their intense repetition. The second movement of \"Waters\" and \"Azure No1\" particularly suffer from that. Overall, though, it's an intriguing, sometimes beguiling work from a promising talent who I hope we'll hear a lot more from in the future. "}