{"label":" Cuneiform","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/429/homepage_large.5ee960f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Ahleuchatistas","title":"What You Will","text":" \"Remember Rumsfeld at Abu Ghraib\" trumpets the first song on Aheluchatistas' third album. While I can't remember Donald Rumsfeld physically at Abu Ghraib, I get the message he was there in essence as a guiding force. And with that, another Ahleuchatistas album is off and running like a dog with five legs, the rhythms weird and asymmetrical, cropping up in meters nearly impossible to keep track of, and rarely simple or familiar.What You Will doesn't put a lot of stylistic distance between itself and the Asheville, N.C., trio's two previous albums, but on several tracks it displays a boost in compositional maturity. The tension and release feel more organic, and though jarring jumpcuts are still plentiful, there's often more of a sense of purposeful contrast. On \"Remember Rumsfeld\", dig the way Shane Perlowin's stridently unaffected electric guitar sticks stubbornly to those slow, mournful figures even as the bass and drums egg it on with frenzied outbursts. Each note quivers into adjacent quarter tones, and when the band finally coalesces, it heads off on a martially unified path of mayhem. It's weird to hear a contemporary band stick so militantly to the basics, relying on guitar, bass, and drums without distortion or an overdub. \"Ho Chi Minh Is Gonna Win!\" opens with a mindblowing patch of groove, with palmmuted guitar hitching a ride on Derek Poteat's burbling, almost Chris Squireish bass, and then streaks off on a series of wild tangents รก la King Crimson's \"Great Deceiver\". Toward the middle, drummer Sean Dail settles on a simmering ride cymbal pattern, which Perlowin coats with chiming guitar, creating the prettiest moment Ahleuchatistas have put on tape to date. The band operates in pretty unforgiving territory, and naturally not everything works. \"Sometimes There's a Buggy\" gets bogged down in a repetitive midsection and has little sense of structure. The track feels like it has the seeds of several other, more interesting songs in it, but it never blossoms itself. The music suffers at other points from a lack of repetition a phrase flees too quickly or a passage doesn't return. \"Shell in Ogoniland\" has an especially bad attention deficit, stabbing in about 18 directions at once. Thankfully, most of the songs come together as they should \"Maybe Orange\" switches deftly between tensionbuilding passages and bursts of offcenter groove, while \"Sherman's March\" assembles itself from dystopian chaos into the most straightforwardly brutal rhythm the band has hit on yet. What the band's success comes down to, though, is that they're astonishingly together even on passages where it seems downright impossible to stay in sync. You don't get the impression that they're virtuosos or even trying to be, just that they're a very singleminded entity. Playing instrumental rock with a setup this basic, that singlemindedness is essential. "}