{"label":" StarTime","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4285/homepage_large.00853697.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Joggers","title":"Solid Guild","text":" Fourman harmony used to be the exclusive terrain of barbershop quartets and pimply junior high choral practices until it transformed into a secret weapon of sorts for contemporary bands trying their pitchpipe best to channel some kind of Brian Wilson, surfrock thing. Either way, it's an ambitious, if inherently plucky proposition; outside of elementary schools and churches, misused fourpart harmony can be deeply embarrassing in a gruesome, tingly way, all awkward, straining notes and graceless synchronization, missed beats and screechy climaxes. Given the context, it's possible that the Joggers have just fourhandedly manned a vocal revolution. On Solid Guild, the former members of Stateside see their round, puppydog warbles coalescing into quirky, unexpected fourpart harmonies inspired, supposedly, by the shapenote (or sacred harp) traditions of the late eighteenthcentury, an inclusive vocal system devised to make group hymn singing possible for folks who couldn't otherwise read music (written notes are assigned one of four different shapes; participating singers arrange themselves in a circle or square, facing inward, and perform a capella.) For Solid Guild, the four Joggers airlift the shapenote process from the deep and dirty American south, setting it down on the comparably tidy streets of Portland, Oregon, and transplanting their resulting harmonies into perfectly contemporary punk rock songs. The idea of deliberately coopting a semiobscure, southern hymnhowling convention might seem unbearably pretentious on paper, but it's an entirely different monster in practice dynamic and heavily textured, there's a bareboned, unfiltered honesty to the Joggers' yelps that should dissuade illwilled naysayers and gospel purists. Truthful and energized, the Joggers' anachronistic harmonies offer an airy counterpoint to their prickly, arrowslinging guitars and sharp, everymanforhimself riffing rather than bogging these songs down, they somehow open them up. \"Back To The Future\" leads with mischievous guitar interplay, axmen Murphy Kasiewicz and Ben Whitesides antagonizing each other via an echoandbuild exchange before drums curl in and all four voices pipe up enthusiastically, pointing in different directions eventually, they lose the instruments all together, their broad, scrappy wails going unaccompanied, lyrics unintelligible, trills popping up and down, attacking from all angles. It's an engaging moment, and the Joggers periodically employ this type of clearinghouse trick, pushing their punchy instrumentation aside in favor of sharp vocal breakdowns. \"Neon Undercarriage,\" an otherwise Strokesish garage romp, sees its perky guitar hook interrupted by a standalone slap of harmony, this one abstract and convoluted enough to function, successfully, as its own kind of fourman instrument. Keep in mind that vocals aren't the only shots being fired: most of Solid Guild plays like a big, wellchoreographed skirmish, with Kasiewicz's and Whitesides' guitars darting and tumbling, wrestling and pinning each other down, Jake Morris' punchy drums piping up, slotting in raucous fills where you'd least expect them, and Darrell Bourque's persistent bass stringing all the disparate parts back together, sort of. It's a huge, exhilarated mess, a clash of sounds, starts, and stops that's nearly impossible to chart; traditional notions of synchronicity aren't relevant, and nobody's doing the same thing at the same time. They might be necessarily complex, but the Joggers' compositions aren't sloppy, impenetrable, or gratuitously harried it's just rich, purposefully disjointed fun, entirely cringeless and consistently surprising. All without the matching vests. "}