{"label":" Menlo Park","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4286/homepage_large.a7973ee7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Hurst","artist":"Japanther","title":"Leather Wings","text":" The death of a scene. I remember the first time I watched it happen. As an overeager adolescent grunge fan and aspiring Seattlite, I was thrilled to find that Nirvana was part of a scene stretching back as far as the Sonics and including thenstillunderground bands like Mudhoney and Tad. My appetite for all things punk, and especially Northwestern, was voracious, and I devoured every C/Z comp and Young Fresh Fellows single I could get my hands on. And life was good, until those final months of 1992, when I watched the Seattle bacchanal crumble before my eyes for every Fastbacks or UMen record I unearthed, there was a Candlebox album lying in wait, looking to cash in on the moment and encouraging a dozen new A&R; shitweasels to add an \"edge\" to their AOR Zep knockoffs by moving them to Seattle and dressing them up as fucking lumberjacks. Out with Green River, in with Green Apple Quick Step. And so I find myself eleven years older and probably not much wiser (thanks, collegeera chemical recreation!), bemoaning the end of another scene. Since the electroclash, underground hiphop, and postpostpunk (or is it newnewwave?) scenes arrived in the early noughties, Brooklyn and in particular Williamsburg has achieved nonpareil status amongst the hipster cognoscenti, with snooty art galleries, clothing boutiques, and posh eateries moving in by the assload. Gentrification, of course, usually portends a dim future, as the cuttingedge makes way for the fullon middleAmerican cheese. Now, as Liars make room for The Watchers, Interpol begets The Stills, and Fischerspooner breeds Tobell von Cartier (didn't Larry Tee already try this once with RuPaul?), truly inspiring new Brooklyn bands are a real commodity. Sweaty punk dudes Ian Vanek and Matt Reilly of Japanther make a glorious racket out of vocals, live drums, an Akai MPC, and a fuzzedbeyondbelief bass guitar. Vanek and Reilly may have played their early shows opening for noiserock stalwarts Lightning Bolt and Pink & Brown, with whom they certainly share an affinity for volume and density, but they also employ hiphop informed beats and samples, and tend to rely on the tempo and pacing of hardcore punk. Bits of pop melody and structure are carried almost solely by the everpresent fuzzbass, as Vanek and Reilly bark, scream, and shout unison chorus lines over the lofi din. Opening the album with a sampled voice intoning, \"Love is like a battle of the bands... crank up your amps, man,\" the band proceeds to do just that, tearing through the punkmetal assault of the title track. This minutelong barrage anticipates much of the madness that follows: \"South of Northport\" and \"TV Nightmare\" suggest drummachinefueled hardcore, but \"Blood of the Panther\" recalls the late90s heyday of socalled digital hardcore more than Minor Threat. Far from being an Atari Teenage Riot knockoff, though, Japanther never let the beatboxes and samples overpower their organic, inthered production. While their use of samples to open nearly all of the tracks lends a decidedly hiphop flavor, the relatively sedate newwave moments on Leather Wings are comparatively light on electronics. \"Pleased to Meet You\" owes the newwave contingent more for its carnivalesque organ line and buoyant bassline than for any 80sfetishist synth tones. \"16 Stories High\" and \"...Of Dogs\" may employ synthesizers, but so sparingly that they sound like thriftstore organs anyway. If there's a question that Japanther's amalgamation of styles might be accidental, \"Super Loser\" shows the band's influences so seamlessly integrated that it can't be pure happenstance. Pop hooks, isitliveorisitRoland drumming, electronic sprinklings, and a repeated, vocodered drop of the word \"noise\" make \"Super Loser\" the record's most forwardthinking track, hinting at what the band might be capable of. There's also a nod to my oncecherished Northwestern scene in the opening sample, the disembodied voice of some moralmajoritarian glibly pronouncing that \"'He's Waiting' is one of the evilest of the Sonics' songs... who's waiting? Why Satan, of course.\" Such a stew of influences may sound complicated on paper, but the album is surprisingly straightforward in execution even the most subdued tracks are short, fast, and intense. This can be a drawback: For all Japanther's propulsiveness, the most hardcoreleaning tracks are the least memorable. Despite a degree sameness, Leather Wings is the best (only?) noiserocknewwavehardcorehiphop you're likely to hear this year. With another album already in the can (the soontobereleased Dump the Body in Rikki Lake) and an upcoming split with Brooklyn's Panthers (get it?), Japanther shows that tres chic Brooklyn still has a crusty, spastic underbelly. "}