{"label":" Stinky","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4297/homepage_large.6f76fa18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"J.U.F.","title":"Gogol Bordello vs. Tamir Muskat","text":" In his work with NYC's premiere cabaret punk act, Gogol Bordello, frontman Eugene Hutz has often been decried as disingenuous; his detractors claim that the band's politics and regional shtick are cynically calculated and affected, and that Gogol Bordello too often play into the gypsypunk stereotypes they aim to transcend in their music. But in Hutz's case, energy and stage presence trump his seemingly insincere stance as revolutionary Slavophile. When this energy is effectively translated onto record (see 2002's Multi Kontra Culti vs. Irony and 1999's VoiLa Intruder), the unparalleled spectacle of Gogol's legendary live show is palpable. Hutz also has a reputable weekly DJ gig, which he frequently uses to open Gogol shows. He's built a solid reputation from those sets, which take elements of Balkan, Indian, Arab, and dancehall and meld them into inspired mindfucks, which in a club setting maintain the intensity of Gogol's sets. It makes sense that Hutz would eventually translate his DJ efforts to record, and on Gogol Bordello vs. Tamir Muskat, he teams with Gogol alumni Oren and Ori Kaplan, frequent opener and Israeli artist Victoria Hanna, and Big Lazy drummer Tamir Muskat to create a multicultural mix.\\xCA Plenty of apologists (myself included) would argue that in the case of both Gogol Bordello and the J.U.F. (\"JewishUkrainian Freundschaft\") collaboration, the live experience is a prerequisite to a full appreciation of Hutz's ambition. The prevailing style has been justifiably labeled \"What the Fuck,\" but the WTF aesthetic comes across as primarily conceptual. Lacking the atmosphere of a convincing live performance, Hutz's spontaneity dissipates and his tracks become monotonous. Each Gogolquoting horn hook, \"Arabdubsextura\" moment, and Muskat/Kaplanprogrammed beat feel labored and overly deliberate. Though individual songs at times maintain a distinctive momentum, the album as a whole is fleeting and forgettable, suggesting the exact kind of artificiality that has so long unfairly dogged Hutz's recorded efforts. The album isn't without its inspired moments opener \"Gypsy Part of Town\" transforms a trademark Ori Kaplan sax figure into a relaxed funk line accompanied by a lazy Muskat preprogrammed beat, while Hutz personifies the texts that inform his haphazard mishmash of revolutionary politics as imprisoned wolves breaking free from their cages. \"Roumania\" uses Hanna's disquieting vocal presence to complement a traditional, lopsided acoustic backdrop that stumbles through a repetitive horn pattern. \"Samiao's Day\" effectively replicates the energy of a climactic Gogol drum line finale. Although Hutz brings his crazed intensity to most tracks and Hanna consistently textures her accompanying tracks with the evocative, urgent menace of her unique timbre and phrasing too many tracks quickly work into predictable grooves and proceed on autopilot. For the most part, the album's dub and funk workouts lack cohesion and force, coming across too frequently as calculated combinations of their diverse influences. Individual listening is ultimately taxing and unrewarding, making this a competent but tedious translation of Hutz's DJ sets, and a marginally entertaining side project to please Gogol diehards between releases. "}