{"label":" Asthmatic Kitty","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4299/homepage_large.bc8be4e1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rachel Khong","artist":"Liz Janes","title":"Liz Janes & Create(!)","text":" Nominated for the San Diego Music Awards as Best New Artist in 2004, Liz Janes harbors more in common with San Diego's most visible wetsuittoriches tales than she probably knows or wants to believe: Chronic jokester Jason Mraz even surfboardbearing Christianrockers Switchfoot share Janes' penchant for sounding none too stressed and being nuisances to pigeonhole. But Janes' So Cal roots thankfully don't dig too deep, and her influences fan out further. She cites Casey Kasem's Top 40 as influential, and names ties to the suburbs of D.C., jazz clubs of Philadelphia, and punk of Olympia, Wash. all forces that habitually manifest themselves in previous efforts, Done Gone Fire and Poison and Snakes. Released on Sufjan Stevens' Asthmatic Kitty label (the former was produced by Stevens), both of her previous albums at once court and thwart expectations of Ms. Wanderlust and Mr. America's collaboration and both are so sprawling that they're frequently frustrating. Though the issue at hand is too many cooks, it isn't Stevens' doing on Done Gone Fire, or Rafter Roberts' on Poison & Snakes. It's the schizostuff Janes throws in, intentionally or otherwise, that emerges seductively bluesy Jesuslovin' indie pop, largely unremarkable and unfocused, and warbly to a fault. Janes' purposeful strangeness might be beautiful her stabs at tradition, valuable if done right. On her latest album, Janes is joined by Los Angelesbased free jazz collective Create(!) with whom she eschews soulful pseudofolk cuteness and reinterpret six spirituals and folk standards to door slams and trash can lid noises. Sufjan takes a leave of absence, and so does his aforementioned bells and whistles; produced and recorded by Chris Schlarb of Create(!) in a oneroom shack, Liz Janes & Create(!) banishes use of electricinstruments and remedies Janes' most irksome faults. Here Janes drops the affected Baezwarble, and Create(!) provide the strangeness she sometimes slaves too hard to arrive at; together, they revamp tradition to construct something strangely new, and surprisingly personal. For better or for worse, this album creates the impression of spanning for ages in its underhalfanhour run. There's little room to err, but they still manage: \"Lonesome Valley\", \"Be My Husband\", and \"All the Pretty Horses\" would lull tiny hippie babies to sleep in two minutes, tops. Janes sings \"Go to sleep, little baby,\" and problematically, it works too well. By the time \"Jesus Is a Dying BedMaker\" ups the pace, the attentiondeficient will have fled before hearing Janes' sweetly admonishing \"well, well, well\"; too bad, because it's here that Janes draws closest to stunning. "}