{"label":" Epic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13466/homepage_large.c1b7fe2f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Michael Jackson","title":"The Ultimate Collection","text":" The last time Michael Jackson was arrested for child molestation, I was watching \"Access Hollywood\" or \"Entertainment Tonight\" or another one of those shows. Number Ones, Jackson's greatest hits collection, was due to drop the following week, and Jackson was making noises about how the arrest was all part of an attempt to sabotage his album sales. The district attorney or sheriff or whoever was on TV at some press conference; he mentioned Jackson's accusations and said, \"Like I would actually listen to that kind of music.\" What kind of music was this guy talking about? The kind that's sold nearly 150 million records worldwide? The kind that still packs floors at weddings, clubs, and parties? Jackson might be a walking punchline these days, but he's also the most successful solo artist of all time, someone who's written and recorded a career's worth of unspeakably great songs. It's not like the guy had just arrested G.G. Allin or something. But then, Jackson has been less a pop star than a freaky curiosity for more than a decade. His 2001 album Invincible bricked, as did Number Ones, and it's hard to imagine The Ultimate Collection his new hitsandrarities box set will fare much better in the current hostile climate. Jackson, of course, may be desperate for any sort of positive attention, any way to reclaim his legacy and remind the public that he reached a level of stratospheric fame on the strength of his music. And a lot of the music on The Ultimate Collection is pretty much perfect. The set starts on a ridiculously high note with The Jackson 5's \"I Want You Back\", an unbelievably giddy blast of infectious joy. We don't get a whole lot of other early Jackson 5 material (no \"The Love You Save\" or \"Going Back to Indiana\"), but what we do get is spectacular. Interestingly, the set leans heavily on lesser known, laterperiod Jackson 5 tracks like \"Enjoy Yourself\" and \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\", which are similarly revelatory and impeccably produced elegant discosoul pieces. It's fun to hear Jackson's voice progress from the joyous, energetic whoops of his early singles to the taut, clipped, more rhythmic style of his first collaborations with producer Quincy Jones, on a pair of surprisingly solid gospelBroadwayfunk tracks from the soundtrack to The Wiz. This partnership would lead to Off the Wall, for which Jones piled layer upon layer of glistening disco strings, itchy percolating guitars, twinkling synths, blasting horns, nasty funk bass, and sophisticated, intricate rhythms behind Jackson's fragile, chiffon voice, resulting in the single best pop album of the disco era. Four tracks from Off the Wall are included here, and all of them are breathtaking, particularly the swooping, ecstatic \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\". Jackson's next collaboration with Jones was, of course, Thriller, still among the bestselling albums of all time. The set's second disc is devoted to tracks from the Thriller era, including five songs from the album itself, as well as a shitty litefunk demo version of \"P.Y.T. (Pretty Young Thing)\". Thriller might be overly familiar, but most of its songs still hold up surprisingly well. \"The Girl Is Mine\", a duet with Paul McCartney, is straightup M.O.R. vanilla bullshit (on which Jackson effortlessly outsings McCartney), but other songs remain great: the limber dancefunk of \"Wanna Be Startin' Something\", the glossy plastic bubblegummetal of \"Beat It\", and especially the chilly, paranoid masterpiece \"Billie Jean\". Even more than Jackson's other Quincy Jones collaborations, \"Billie Jean\" sounds incredible on headphones. The pulsing, insistent bass, the spacey synth chimes, and the shivery descending strings perfectly support the adult Jackson's definitive vocal performance, a percussive pileup of freakedout tics, yelps, moans, and hiccups. The second disc also includes a whole lot of utterly godawful rarities. \"Someone in the Dark\" is a maudlin fauxBroadway ballad from the E.T. soundtrack that includes a bewilderingly bizarre vocal cameo from the alien himself. It seems to be the exact moment that Jackson began to make the transition from exciting young pop star to neutered humanoid elf. We also get a solo demo version of \"We Are the World\" and \"We Are Here to Change the World\" the theme from Jackson's incomprehensible 3D Disney World scifi opus Captain EO. It's difficult to believe that someone thought these tracks were more worthy of inclusion than \"The Love You Save\". The set picks back up again on the third disc with six tracks from Bad, Jackson's final collaboration with Jones. Most of these tracks still sound great, especially the feverish, insistent \"Smooth Criminal\". By this point, his vocal style was pretty much dominated by tourettic tics, and this new approach meshes with Jones' more rhythmic synthfunk. Jackson's later collaborations never approached the chemistry of Jones and Jackson. On 1991's Dangerous, he worked with the thencutting edge new jack swing producer Teddy Riley, who had produced major singles for smoother, cleaner singers like Bobby Brown and Guy's Aaron Hall. But Jackson sounds lost over the hardedged breakbeats of \"Jam\" and the staccato keyboards of \"Remember the Time\", even though the two do find the right note on \"Who Is It (HIS Mix)\", a shivery, lowkey dance track. Meanwhile, \"Black or White\" never Jackson's finest moment, but Dangerous' biggest hit nonetheless inexplicably includes the Macaulay Culkin/George Wendt skit from the video. Nearly everything Jackson has done since is just terrible, making the fourth disc an unbearable slog. Oddly, the set excludes \"Scream\", Jackson's biggest hit of the past 10 years, leaning instead on the ballads from 1996's HIStory \"You Are Not Alone\" and \"Childhood (Theme from Free Willy 2)\". In comparison, the material from Invincible almost sounds good, with the album's title track riding a hard Rodney Jerkins beat, and a posthumous Biggie verse ProTooled in. Still, nothing from this era comes within a mile of touching Jackson's best material, and all of the previously unreleased material on the disc (about half the CD), is boring to the point of being unlistenable. The set also includes a DVD of a Dangerousera concert in Bucharest, which is pretty funny. It's a dazzlingly elaborate Disneystyle greatest hits revue, more memorable for the puppet skeletons that come out during \"Thriller\" or the angel that flies over the stage for \"Will You Be There\" than for the actual music. Jackson's dancing is still amazing, and the enormous, rapturous crowd is fun to watch, but it's hard to get around the weird gold codpiece thing Jackson wears for the first half of the show or the ridiculous homoerotic Teutonic dancers. If Jackson was hoping to call attention back to his music, and away from his inexplicable eccentricities, it's hard to believe he'd want to include this show. In fact, the whole set is pretty strange. The Ultimate Collection doesn't make a great career overview; there's just too much extraneous crap. It would have made a lot more sense to simply box up Off the Wall, Thriller, and Bad in their entireties (it's not like these albums were bloated with filler) along with a disc of Jackson 5 and early solo material and maybe a DVD of videos and early TV appearances. The rarities and recent material drag the box down enormously, but it still does what might be its primary job: to remind us that Michael Jackson is one of the greatest pop stars of all time. "}