{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4307/homepage_large.c63ed0fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Jane","title":"Coconuts EP","text":" Recorded in 2002 and originally selfreleased as a limitededition CDR, Coconuts captures the nascent moments of the loose, spirited collaboration between Noah Lennox (Animal Collective's Panda Bear) and DJ Scott Mou. Featuring two long, homerecorded skeletal jams, this early set shows the duo to be already perfectly comfortable if not downright beatific in each other's company, as they serenely bat various embryonic ideas between their paws. And though the twosome's odd bit of moonlighting still makes the most sense when considered as a side project, this strangely luminous EP stands as evidence that many of Jane's abundant creative promises are yet to be fulfilled. In an interview with The Wire, Lennox described Jane's 2005 album Berserker as being \"like a mix CD with toasting over the top.\" While this might be an accurate description of the duo's general methods or work habits, it doesn't provide much insight into the mysteries of their sound, nor do attempts to imprecisely file their work into genres such as ambient or techno. Using little more than a turntable and mixer, on these two tracks Mou spins out an uncluttered field of murky beats and granulated effects, recasting the medievalism inherent in Lennox's ethereal, wordless vocals into a striking new microindustrial context. Reportedly created upon the duo's first meeting, the 21minute \"Coconuts\" is a marvel of psychedelic economy, driven with an unrelenting propulsion that approximates a lotech, basement version of Can's \"Mother Sky\". After a couple minutes of quiet scrabbling, the song's rhythm soon settles into a grainy, repetitive lurch, sounding like the vintage equipment of a longabandoned factory suddenly springing back into action. Along the way, various sprays of unfastened noise or isolated keyboard patterns are examined and then discarded, while Lennox's delicate, sculpted vocals arch elegantly above the clamor. Far more diffuse is the EP's second track, \"Ossie\", which directly anticipates the liquid textures of Berserker. Stretched over the course of 25 minutes, this track has an almost episodic structure, with minutes spent of Lennox wandering desolate through scattered electronic detritus, a landscape that includes the occasional crackle of static that one might too easily mistake for a failing speaker. Midway through, \"Ossie\" does achieve a certain hesitant advancing pulse, but never quite manages to bring all of its distinct particles entirely into concert. Nonetheless, it's encouraging to hear Lennox willing to stray this far afield from the security of the Animal Collective's campfires, and hopefully Jane will soon find the opportunity to further advance upon the gains drawn by these formative recordings. "}