{"label":" Southern","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4336/homepage_large.e643922d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Karate","title":"Pockets","text":" There's an old saw that goes, \"There are two kinds of people in the world...\" Visavis Karate's mixture of emo, jazz, and postrock (a libation they've blended much more palatably than likeminded contemporaries Joan of Arc), one feels compelled to state that there are two kinds of artists in the world. The first are those who doggedly pursue their aesthetic agenda through a single lens like, say, essayist David Sedaris, who's written approximately one million belleslettres about how hard (yet funny) it was to grow up gay in the South and the second are those who filter their unique sensibility through various lenses, like Karate bandleader Geoff Farina. Karate's music is likely energized by Farina's multifarious other projects: He's released three solo albums, played with indie pop act Secret Stars, and cofounded an artists' colony in Rhode Island. He writes about gear for Tape Op magazine, and has composed scores for films by Genet, Beckett, and Man Ray at the behest of the Italian film festival Cinemazero. This sort of artistic dilettantism helps to prevent any single endeavor from becoming stagnant one imagines the butcher who keeps all of his knives sharp by not overusing any single one. Even within Karate, Farina hasn't idled. Their initially unremarkable emo reached a turning point with 2000's Unsolved, which began a sequence of albums that arrayed vast guitarscapes around the technical elements of jazz and the abstruse theory of postrock. It's a careerdefining album that's at once accessible and distinctive a unified artistic statement that realizes their full potential.  On Pockets, Karate shed their postrock trappings entirely, sublimating emo and jazz beneath a patina of polished, intuitive 70s poprock. These concise songs feel effortless in a way that belies their understated technical proficiency, and are so seamlessly sequenced that the mood breezy and jazzy, yet dark and deliberately unfolding is airtight. Farina metes out sharp, oblique narratives that in his resonant and ascetically emotive voice, and Pockets attains the confluence of instinctive aural appeal, hardwon technical ability, and refined vision of which yearend lists are made.  A record of such stark beauty and discreet drama could only open with a flourish, and the first quavering chord of \"With Age\" is a gloved hand drawing back a velvet curtain. It establishes a formula that flexes through many permutations of mood and color over the remainder of the album: Clean, bright guitars that swing at a peppy midtempo or ponderously bend and stress; melodic, fleet basslines; a wash of supple percussion; and fluid dynamic shifts interleaved with cadenced, organic guitar solos.  \"Water\" is a spacious masterpiece of quietly seething atmosphere, as Farina intones, \"I want to take you to dinner but you'd rather hang out in rest stops/ Engaging in discourse better scratched into desktops,\" over minimal percussion and a liquid arpeggio. The staccato, uptempo swing of \"The State I'm In, a.k.a. Goode Buy from Cobbs Creek Park\" is a boisterous lament of working class struggles. And \"Cacophony\" one of two songs that features supplementary guitar from Codeine's Chris Brokaw unfurls woozy, meandering melodies over martial drumming in a procession of grand crests and expanses of arid ambiance.  By all rights, Karate 10 years and six albums into their career should be recording limp rehashes of old material by now. But the most striking thing about Pockets is how fresh and vital it sounds. Pockets is a lens through which Farina flows pure and unfettered, focused into one puissant beam. No longer the artist who dabbles, his production is enriched and amplified by the harmonization of all the false starts, fragmentary ideas, and assimilated styles that he's amassed in his pursuit of transcendence.  "}