{"label":" Konkurrent","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4337/homepage_large.a103bc7f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Karate","title":"In the Fishtank 12 EP","text":" For their In the Fishtank series, Konkurrent Records offers bands two days in the studio to air out ideas that might be out of place on those artists' usual records. Early entries included EPs by NoMeansNo, Guv'ner, and June of 44, but soon, the series evolved into a collaborative space, and counterintuitive pairings took over: Tortoise and the Ex, the Black Heart Procession and Solbakken, Low and Dirty Three (okay, that one isn't so counterintuitive). Karate's In the Fishtank EP brings the series full circle: They \"collaborate\" with Billie Holiday, the Band, Mark Hollis, and the Minutemen by covering them on this politically charged karaoke bash. It takes some balls to tackle such iconic songs, especially since Karate's versions of them are so straightforward and faithful. Or we could be cynical and call it stacking the deck: Short of reworking them as skapunk anthems, is it even possible to make unpleasant versions of \"Strange Fruit\" or \"Tears of Rage\"? Without revising the originals, Karate nudges them toward their own style a bit anesthetized, with a chilly precision bordering on blandness. The EP's breezy yet solemn demeanor seems to portend Pockets, which this EP was recorded right before, and their political themes would recur on Pockets songs like \"The State I'm in aka Goode Buy From Cobb's Creek Park\". Geoff Farina's singing is winningly elegant, but can be tough to reconcile with the real deals: Like a thick quilt laid across them, it only traces the broadest contours of Holiday's sweetly sinister warble on \"Strange Fruit\", Richard Manuel's soulful, honeyed drawl (or Dylan's magnetic rasp, depending on whether you take your \"Tears of Rage\" from The Basement Tapes or the Band's debut, Music from Big Pink), and Mike Watt's gruff bark on Minutemen covers like \"Bob Dylan Wrote Propaganda Songs\" and \"Only Minority\". But the ominous poignancy of Holiday's lynching lament remains intact, as Farina intones over shimmering chords and a liquid lead: \"Southern trees bear strange fruit/ Blood on the leaves and blood on the root.\" And the Minutemen covers break up the dirges with uptempo, jazzy pep talks for the workin' man. The only real downer is a ponderous cover of Talk Talk singer Mark Hollis's \"New Jerusalem\" that sheds some of the original's fragility in favor of overstated reverb chords and deliberate, melodramatic drums. It's the only song on the EP that eschews concise reproduction, and drives home the soundness of Karate's decision to play the others accurately, even if the end result may have you digging out your copy of What Makes a Man Start Fires for a sip of the source waters after a few spins. "}