{"label":" Bomb Hip-Hop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/435/homepage_large.21fb3084.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Apsci","title":"Get It Twisted","text":" Despite my initial fears of this record's potential for highbrowed selfindulgence, it's tough not to admire any project that stands tall under the label of \"experimental hiphop.\" Expanding the borders of the most malleable of genres has got to be a good thing. By now, forwardthinking listeners have at least a smattering of options that offer a rewarding, if challenging, listening experience, thanks to the work of dizzyheaded beat freaks like Dälek, Glen Galloway, and the Anticon alchemists. Those artists not only defy presupposition, but have turned out some true class from the fickle, irresistible bitch that is hiphop. Traveling similar spaceways is Apsci (\"applied science\" foreshortened), the product of funkpunkturnedbboy Raphael La Motta, his wife/Aussie chanteuse Dana DiazTutaan, and Def Jux workhorse DJ Big Wiz. Pairing La Motta's glitchy production and Wiz's turntable textures looks great on paper, a prospect even more enticing when Big Apple luminaries like TV on the Radio vocalist Tunde Adebimpe, Martín Perna of Antibalas, and hiphop intellectual Mike Ladd appear on Twisted's tracklist. Add the assertion that the album is a physically unplaceable, cyberspacial collaboration, assembled from transcontinental airplane laptop sessions and portable studios in eight different countries, and Apsci's pastiche swells with creative possibilities. Unfortunately, even as the album dips into intriguing conceptual territory, the execution is pretty underwhelming, and the overall sensation is of a jumbo Roman Candle of creativity that fizzles out before it's even fully lit. La Motta's work with shortlived Thrill Jockey groovegrungers Vitapup precedes his stylemashing smarm with Apsci. There's a relieving sense of humor that thankfully underlines his straightahead, \"Hollywood Freaks\"style whiteboy raps and sparse, sterile broken beats. Without that hipster smirk, La Motta's lyrics would be too vapid to call quirky and his production too flagrant to call experimental. DiazTutaan's silky, versatile voice seems underused; she comes from an operatic background but here we get little more than warbled Baduizms. If La Motta's own delivery was stronger she'd perhaps shine brighter in his presence, but together the couple sound more like they're pillowtalking than performing. The album's first half makes Apsci's strongest statement, though a throwaway appearance by 3 Feet High and Rising host Don Newkirk only emphasizes where the album fails to go, as does the De Lainspired role call on \"It's Apsci\". \"Tirade Highway\" and \"Never Give Up\" bring tentative electrofunk bump, the first riding Atari synthlines and subliminal effects over DiazTutaan's showtune vocals; the second comping over a routine horn sample and phaseshifted beat, letting DiazTuttan's voice do the heavy lifting. Adebimpe's heavenly croon adds atmosphere to \"Runaway\" and illuminates the New York indie influence on the album, his minorkey harmonies hinting at TV's moody ruminations. However, Perna's flute is only an afterthought in the sudsy \"Rob the Bank\", with its brittle rhythms and Wiz's subtle scratching barely discernable, and \"Synth 3PO\" is a true low point, again falling back on the Beck blueprint of plastic sequined soul, without the surreal heart and giddy bluster. But like I said, you have to respect any serious attempt at excavating the proverbial pigeonhole. We analytical PoMo's like the ambiguous shades that fall just after sunset but before the heavy dark of night, the time when fireworks can be most vivid and startling. "}