{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4353/homepage_large.2b703ad6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Kepler","title":"Attic Salt","text":" There was a time when artistic beauty wasn't regarded as a matter of intuitive personal vision or a relative standard buttressing the values of the elite class. Before the Enlightenment freed beauty from the dim hedgemaze of superstition and ushered it into the pure light of empiricism; before aesthetics became a valid mode of philosophical inquiry that favored beauty's mundane qualities over its divine ones; before poststructuralism wrought violence on binary values; an object's beauty was inextricably linked to its internal harmony of structure and function and its external harmony with the natural world. In other words, anything beautiful had to mirror divine creation, not subjective human values. Here in 2005, beauty remains under siege it's the new boring; it's all tied into hidden power structures; it's hard to dance to and resists innovation yet the concept of beauty, and our perception of it, persists. No matter how abstracted and censured it becomes, few would deny that, say, the oceans are beautiful. In a musical climate where beauty is often disregarded or located in asymmetrical euphony, bands like Kepler are clinging to an older and more concrete conception of beauty one that hinges on order, balance, and tradition. Like its namesake, the Canadian exslowcore (now just songcore) troupe arrays celestial happenings in elegant orbits, making songs that fit perfectly into circles like Leonardo da Vinci's Vitruvian Man. If you replace \"slowcore\" with \"postrock\" in Kepler's biography, the band's trajectory is parallel with Karate's (if compressed): Attic Salt is analagous to Pockets in its basic sonics and its triumphant, postdeconstructive lucidity. Here's \"Broken Bottles, Blackened Hearts\", a stately tide of lambent piano chords, lush reverb, and hushed cymbals ebbing and flowing below Samir Khan's tweedy (Jeff Tweedy, that is) vocals. Here's \"The Bedside Manner\", loping with the graceful yet muscular fluidity of a trotting horse. And here's \"Rented Limosine\", with arpeggios refracting through lapidary percussion like light through a prism. Here's an album that locates its force in its artisanal skill, not in its theoretical or innovative dimensions, and if it's not a dying breed, it's certainly an endangered one.  This is not a call for art to return to Middle Age, or even neoclassical, values I place a high premium on art's capacity for innovation and social commentary. Rather, it is a call for a reassessment of the value of beauty, disabused of JudeoChristian overtones but in full possession of its divine symmetry, at a time when its cultural relevance is dwindling. To reject the beauty of order is to reject the natural world. At the end of the day, Kepler's music is beautiful, like the sea is beautiful, and while we might not know exactly what this means, to disregard it wholesale as a biased cultural construct is to throw out the baby and the bath. It is also a deep loss to another confounding yet lasting, embarassing abstraction: The human spirit.  "}