{"label":" Violent Turd","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4359/homepage_large.ded9bff5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Cex / Kid606","title":"Shotgun Wedding Vol. 3: Oh, So Now You Fuckers Wanna Dance?","text":" \"Sometimes the mainstream is more interesting than the underground,\" DJ/rupture told me before mating eightlegged raggacore beats with blingbling socialites at San Francisco's Bottom of the Hill club. I had previously asked him why so many underground noiseniks were enthralled with Timbaland and the Neptunes' sixfigurecharged per beat productions, and rupture further elaborated his answer onstage as he mixed with no trace of irony or contempt. His comrade and laptopnoise sevngali Kid606 also fondly connected the dots between noise and pop during a DJ set at the city's Peacock Lounge having the Tom Tom Club's \"Genius of Love\" understandably crawl into bed with hardcore techno. The audience of shagcarpeted art students inhaled it all.On Oh, So Now You Fuckers Wanna Dance?, the Kid (Miguel Depedro) and cultrapper Cex (Rjyan Kidwell) continue to damn the underground's isolationism from the mainstream by concocting DJ mixtapes for high school halftime shows. In short, it's gallantly dumb booty music that is often a foot away from being meatmarket fodder. The record is the third chapter in \"soundclash\" label Violent Turd's Shotgun Wedding series where copyrightabusing artists split time on the same mix record.Cex and the Kid's 2030 minute DJ sets mostly avoid DSP vandalism in favor of letting their Miami bassstyle THUNK, THUNK, THUNKs and MTVsold rappers speak for themselves. That deep respect also compromises their strong personalities. Miguel is known for shattering techno and hiphop into a million pieces, and later prancing about in Hello Kitty/Paul Frank synthpop to further disturb; Rjyan defies any antiwhite rapper critic by existing in his genuine world of parody, videogame addiction relapses, and counterIDM ethic. So although the dumbdance aesthetic isn't a radical departure from their oeuvres, it'd still be nice to hear them disrupt and baffle the dancefloor with whatthefuckwasthat? moments.Miguel's \"Up From DaBassment\" locks a bootygroove that for all of its 26 minutes is all caffeinated high and no relief. He sticks to a few rhythms all cranked up to +50 on his turntables' pitch controls. Stumbling into the room and asking everyone if they're at the right party before leaving are 50 Cent, Le Tigre, 'Lil Kim, Busta Rhymes, Black Flag, Trick Daddy, Elephant Man, Outkast, the Cardigans, and Daft Punk. Miguel then eases things down with Sparklehorse and Electric Company's shimmering guitar ballads. His next set, \"Gizm Collission\" is intoxicated with an acid hardcore vibe that begins with his own Amsterdam 4:20 street hootenanny \"The Illness\" and then indulges in four sexual predator anthems from DJ Assault. Aphex Twin's peyoteoiled didgeridoo steals the show and refreshingly opens up a vivid mindscape amid the percussive bludgeons.Cex's \"DJ No Evil BaltiMix 6000\" is a more produced affair chopping up samples beyond recognition and rhythmically looping them to nearoverkill. Half of his set glides on the Jungle Brothers' classic \"Sounds of the Safari\" breakbeat where the snapped beats seems to strut a few inches above the ground. Megaphoneamplified crunkhollers and Pepsicommercial stabs of melodies also abound, with a brilliant moment of Motownsoul upping the funk.Despite expectations of timely subversion, who cares if Cex and the Kid don't toss molotov cocktails at the mainstream? Especially when music like this can make the dancefloor undead. As what the \"Genius of Love\" taught us: \"Who needs to think when your feet just go?\" "}