{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4374/homepage_large.2fa72174.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Kills","title":"Fried My Little Brains EP","text":" Remember when forming a band meant tacking up a badlyxeroxed \"Bass Player Wanted!\" flier next to the cash box at your local record store, complete with a repeatedly revised list of \"pivotal\" influences and some superfluous exclamation points at the bottom? Turns out there are new, fancy ways to get a group together: garageblues duo the Kills are the unlikely result of a heated cross Atlantic cassette correspondence between British instrumentalist Hotel and American vocalist VV, and all the headscratching quirks of their bizarre formative circumstances (Hotel? VV? Florida to London?) are perfectly communicated in the quasidesperate nuance of their smarmy guitaranddrums tunes. The Fried My Little Brains EP a threesong companion piece to the Kills' fulllength debut Keep On Your Mean Side is as reckless and unexpected as the Kills themselves, with all the lonely, awkward distance of a tapeby tape, multinational, airmail band rehearsal. VV might have eventually relocated to London to facilitate their songwriting process, but the cold, sleepingalone separation of their start still lingers here. Clocking in at a twitch over two minutes and featuring a single sinister, footpounding blues riff, \"Fried My Little Brains\" can be a semibefuddling single/EP choice, considering that Keep On Your Mean Side also houses some significantly more dynamic (and longer) cuts but it's still a reeling, addictively cocky stomp, with full boygirl harmonies and steady, minimalist percussion. VV and Hotel's repetitive hollers (\"Won't move over/ Won't get gone/ Won't move over/ Fried my little brains\") play like disinterested whines, childish despite their illicit connotations their halfhearted yelps capture, expertly, the bored, numbing part of being young and druggy. Bside \"Jewel Thief\" hollers back to the spirit of the band's Black Rooster EP, with its churning, lofi blurriness, frenzied acoustic strumming, and typewritertap drumming. Less blatantly Deltaloving, \"Jewel Thief\" is a welcome counterpoint to the determinably garagebased blues noodlerisms that make Keep On occasionally sag; sexy and playful, \"Jewel Thief\" is mischievous and surprisingly light. Closer \"Sugar Baby\" is a shifty, fuzzheavy Dock Boggs cover although Boggs' KentuckycoalminergoneLonesomeAcebarn dancer twang is conspicuously absent, as is his beloved banjo strum thick with the kind of contemporary ambivalence that would, presumably, effectively exclude it from any future American Folk Music anthologies.  Overall, something about VV's disembodied howl can be unnervingly empty, and her perpetually blankfaced detachment is what keeps the Kills' sound distinctly theirs, despite a bunch of otherwise apt comparisons to the Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Karen O. Appropriate or not, it's still an interesting parallel: as a vocalist, O. is an intensely palpable performer, a raw, bustedup, writhing mess that, for all her predetermined posturing, feels extraordinarily actual to an audience. No matter how far back you're crouching at a Yeah Yeah Yeahs show, you're gonna get hit with the thick, sour smell of intentionally dribbled beer, feel O.'s halfdrunk kicks and punches, hear her frantic gasps for air inevitably, fans are assailed, sometimes mercilessly, by all the peripheral quirks of a woman who's occupying her voice. With the Kills, what kills is how remote and distracted VV sounds, and how tense her absence is in the context of Hotel's fiery guitar slamming. But the conflict works the pair make oddly compelling partners, and Fried My Little Brains is, at less than ten minutes long, a nicely jarring burst.  "}