{"label":" Hush","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4381/homepage_large.81d60788.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Kind of Like Spitting","title":"Kind of Like Spitting","text":" Mr. Barnett, I'm afraid I have some bad news. This new album of yours is in very bad shape. I'm afraid it may not even make it through the next play. I've been listening to it over and over again the way I always do when I've got a review to write, and it's driving me up the wall. Now, I'm looking at the back of the case and noticing the insignia of the Hush label, whose \"antirock\" dogma is all too apparent on this release. This album does not rock. Oh, how it doesn't rock! It's nearly impossible to count the ways this doesn't rock. I mean, there are plenty of amazing albums out there that don't rock one bit, but all of them have some aspect that makes up for it you know, jawdropping melodies, lushness of sound, or just a generally pleasing vibe. This selftitled Kind of Like Spitting release doesn't really have any of those things. Rather, it's like listening to some kid with a high school composition book full of lyrics sitting in the corner of Au Bon Pain singing about all the crap that's ever happened to him during his painful tenure in suburbia. He's barely strumming his guitar, and he makes you finish whatever it is you're eating just a little quicker so you can leave. All of these songs are old they've just been extracted from the Kind of Like Spitting archives and rerecorded for this album, but who asked for 'em? The disc opens with \"Crossover Potential,\" which may as well be the anthem of Hush Records, with its lyrics about not having any punk rock credentials or mainstream potential. It also reveals the fatal trap of being antirock by being incredibly boring. Eversosparse acoustic guitar strumming and vocals that betray a limited range are all you get. \"Mine\" hardly sounds like a song at all, with its somnambulent fingerpicking accompanied by equally sleepy vocals that still manage to sound strained. What might be a toy piano shows up in the background near the end, but it doesn't really do anything except mimic the already negligible guitar part. And this goes on for more than five minutes. I'd go on, but there's hardly much more to talk about. Two songs manage to rise out of the mire slightly a cover of Braid's \"What a Wonderful Puddle\" and the guitarandflute instrumental \"Canoe,\" which has a nice enough folk vibe to get by. As for that Braid cover, the strumming is more spirited than usual and the melody is good, but even as a standout track it's lacking. At least Braid kicked a little ass while they were emoting in your face. Now, Mr. Barnett, you say in your liner notes that you've been playing with a rock band recently, and that you've been enjoying it. Good for you. I say, stick with it and see how it works out. It's got to have more going for it than this. I'm sure there are people out there searching for an album like this quiet, sparse, and um, sorry, but I kind of ran out of neutral adjectives there. Anyway, good luck in your future endeavors; it's high time you left this one behind you. "}