{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/442/homepage_large.2809f8d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Automato","title":"Automato","text":" On a sticker large enough to obscure approximately 25% of the cover art, copies of Automato's selftitled debut proclaim \"Produced by DFA!\" in 48 pt font. Not to diminish the growing sales value of the DFA brand name, but the publicity angle seems a clumsy effort to avoid scaring off the hiphopshy, as cynical as hyping their use of live instrumentation so that their audience doesn't have to rescind their \"rap is nothing but samples and talking\" arguments. Still, the idea of the men behind The Rapture's curtain tuning their antennas to supervising beats of a different nature tingles some curiosity, if not without a hefty sidedish of skepticism. Indeed, there are lessons to be learned from Automato's debut, the foremost being that the golden touch of Mssrs. Murphy and Goldsworthy can't save a band from their own indierap dullness, horrible cyberneticproduce bandname, and absolutely atrocious MC. Given the consistent failing of historyfetishizing underground hiphop to remember the genre's dance music ancestry, one might think that the DFA have the perfect resume to inject a little discoball back into this hangdog scene. But the duo seems mostly content to leave Automato's music sopping in echo, doing little to disguise the fact that surprise! real genuine instruments are not, in and of themselves, a virtue. Nevertheless, had the instruments been the only thing making noise in Automato, the album would be a sporadically interesting, if Iowaflat affair. \"Capes Billowing\" sounds a bit like M83 mashed up with \"Airbag\", while the jammedout coda to \"Hope\" resembles a minorleague \"Yeah\" (via LCD Soundsystem, of course, not Lil Jon). For the most part, the band's background vamp is intricate, featuring layers of keyboard minuets, staccato guitar, and multitextured drums, but devoid of fun in favor of atmospherics. Despite announcing \"if it ain't soul music, then it ain't my music,\" Automato are distinctly lacking in that elusive thump. Gagging at the lyric excerpt in the last sentence? Well, that's only a taste of what MC Jesse Levine has in store for you fronting this sextet. Since my keyboard's quotation mark key can only handle so much derisive use, here's a quick sampling of some other choice tidbits, in quiz form: Q: Which of the following was not penned by Levine, but rather by my 12yearold nephew? A) \"If you see a chair sit in it/ If you see a bear don't hit it.\" B) \"My Casio never told me there'd be times like these.\" C) You don't appreciate people 'til they die/ Then you wonder why you never smiled when they're alive.\" D) MTV generation/ Can't focus my attention.\" It's a trick question; I don't have a 12yearold nephew. All are Levine originals, and what's worse, they're all hooks, meaning these lines don't slip by once or twice, but are repeated and recited like Hail Marys. To Levine's credit, he does have an ear for crafting a catchy rap melody, although it's hard to judge whether that's a good thing when faced with the indie hiphop clichébingo chorus of \"Cool Boots\": \"All I ever wanted was truth, peace, harmony and antigravitational boots.\" The weird piano chording beneath the chorus of \"Cool Boots\" help make the song especially unshakeable, and hippie Trekkie lyrics aside, the song is revealing of how the Automato formula is not without its potential. So it's almost more disappointing that the DFA couldn't blow that spark into a bonfire, taking the same cattle prod to the mopey ass of indie hiphop that they've recently used on shoegazing frownrock. On the evidence provided by Automato's debut, JayZ won't be ringing up Goldworthy & Murphy anytime soon, and no hiphop fan who doesn't know the liner notes of Echoes will or should bother with the band's music. "}