{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4409/homepage_large.e8b991dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Kinski","title":"Airs Above Your Station","text":" In all likelihood, Kinski have never had an original thought. Every aspect of their music is grievously indebted to almost a dozen predecessors, many still active and probably unwilling to cede their spot on the marquee to another upstart quartet from the Pacific Northwest. Like Yume Bitsu before them, Kinski are passing themselves off as deeply serious musicians, when theirs is among the simplest, most easily emulated genres of music: droning, shoegaze space rock. Overtly aping Mogwai, Jessamine and the entirely mediocre Bardo Pond, Kinski's aimless, ten minute jams fail to deliver sonically or structurally, content to wallow in selfsatisfied discovery, using distortion pedals to mask their junior varsity musicianship. I don't begrudge them their interest in the aforementioned bands, or in jamming with friends, but the idea of Kinski profiting socially or financially from such uncreative, rank imitation is more than frustrating, it's a crime. Bands like Yume Bitsu whom Kinski approximate for the first half of their lengthiest, twelveminute sleeper \"Schedule for Using Pillows and Beanbags\" at least pay attention to their music; Kinski are merely going through the motions of performance, then selflessly likening their detritus to Neu!, Can, Spacemen 3, and of course, My Bloody Valentine (check their online bio). Obviously, Kinski's vintage is far more recent, but in their pretentious line of work, admitting you just found out about music is suicide. The second half of \"Schedule for Using Pillows and Beanbags\" layers an infinity of tracks in an effort to fortify a simple barre chord riff that sounds not unlike one of their more tepid predecessors, Hum. \"Rhode Island Freakout\" is a tribute to Sonic Youth's \"Tunic (Song For Karen)\" (from Goo), and when paired with the middle school wordplay of \"Daydream Intonation\" from their last record, we can at least give Kinski (three guys and a girl, on bass) credit for being up front about their chief inspiration, but the tail end of this record is an outright disaster. The embarrassingly titled \"Waves of Second Guessing\" fails miserably to marry a laborious Windy And Carl intro with a juvenile, stopstart Yo La Tengo impression, while \"Your Lights Are (Out Or) Burning Badly\" follows the same formula, instead tacking on a Jessamine finale. \"I Think I Blew It\" is the only outstanding moment on Airs Above Your Station, an ambient piece that straddles Eno/Lanois ambience and its modern, Kranky progeny. Quite aware of its worth, the band reprise the song as the album's finale. Comparable to the best works on Eno's Apollo: Atmospheres And Soundtracks, \"I Think I Blew It\" is Kinski's one undeniable flourish on a record that otherwise sounds like a senior year college band still learning the ropes. If their drummer were better, I might be tempted to see how Kinski's drone epics fare in concert before dismissing them based on studio recordings, but sans the technique to truly lose themselves in the music, I imagine it's an awkward experience requiring a modicum of forgiveness. The simplicity of \"Semaphore\", with its great vibrato intro (pinched from Burning Airlines' \"3 Sisters\"), gives way to their best rock moment a chorused guitar lead winding through a wall of halftime 6/8 dirge but its promise is dashed by a tacked on, heavy metal take on Stereolab's drone. Their carefree, sophomoric genre interplay unseats any possible and much more easily attained consideration as simply another effectspedal drone band: Shooting for the stylistic moon, Kinski break up in the atmosphere. "}