{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4443/homepage_large.6c5b0b4f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Knifehandchop","title":"Rockstopper","text":" Knifehandchop is the alias of 22year old Toronto resident Billy Pollard, who, despite his age, was one of the first kids onboard the laptop mashup barge when it first lumbered off in the late 90s. Trading in chart music, gabba, booty, jungle, dancehall, noise, bling, bleep, Europop basically anything with a certain pop cultural quotient Pollard's music has always hinged on the act of smirky reappropriation. His breakthrough track, \"Dancemix2000\", released on London's Irritant Records, was an obnoxious but faintly loveable curio that predicted the Boom Selector and Violent Turd bonanza by sellotaping Eminem, Destiny's Child, Pink, and The Vengaboys to a pulsehammering hardcore beat. Although he's already released two other fulllength records, Pollard's best known for his string of ironydrizzled sevens and twelves, which have come mainly via Irritant and kid606's Tigerbeat6 imprint. Rockstopper, his first long player for the latter, is comprised of equal parts newer studio material and rehashed vinyl classics, all of which are offered here in remixed forms. As a complete listening experience, the hourlong effort is a bit of a hard slog, if not only because half of its tracks were originally designed to exist on their own terms, as the singular and immovable exclamation points that all good seven inches are. Placed side by side by side by side, and without the benefit of a seamless mix to smooth out the breaks, they tend to run into a jagged, pummeling blur. Since the novelty of Knifehandchop's catalogue can quickly wear you down in this abundant context, it's better to pluck out individual tracks and listen to them sparingly, as sides. \"Not for Tha Ladies\" pistol whips Beenie Man and Redman's \"Love Me Now\" with a fistful of electro and jungle breaks, \"2 Sexxxxy Booty\" lifts a booty lyric (\"Bump and then pump that ass, ho/ Pump it fast now pump it slow/ Work that thing like a fulltime job/ Same way you slobbed on his knob\") and loops it over a manic electro break, and the Mecha Knifehandchop remix of \"Bounty Killer Killer\" runs the dancehall MC through a gabber/noise funhouse of thumps, bumps and static. And then there's the chillout remix of one of Pollard's bestknown (and most boneheaded) moments, \"Hooked on Ebonics\". With its strung pastiche of MTV hiphop buzzwords and Ja Rule samples (all delivered derisively, like a punchline) fighting against a searing electro line, \"Hooked On\" is Knifehandchop's entire aesthetic rolled up into a single track: a tiresomely selfaware exercise made great in the moment thanks to its inspired programming. That's a routine worth enduring in short bursts, for five minutes, maybe ten, but submit for any longer and the whole thing goes sour, the great moments crumble, and you're left wondering why you ever needed a full hour in the first place. Significantly less than the sum of its parts, but entertaining nonetheless. "}