{"label":" Magaibutsu","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4449/homepage_large.37dd8aae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Koenji-Hyakkei","title":"NIVRAYM","text":" Tatsuya Yoshida is somewhere in Japan right now, and you can bet he's got visions of sugarplum zeuhl demons dancing in his head. It's worse for him than you might think: while most of us were engrossed in real stereophonic performances of Fun House or Radio City, Yoshida must have been burning to play on the same stage, or in some way act on his own theatric instincts, to create rock music that would defy the tradition laid out by a million critics worshipping Chuck Berry and the Stones. And then came punk. But not long after The Year Punk Broke, all the drama you whiled away in became uncool and pretentious. So you and Yoshida had a stalemate, right? How do you reconcile rock attitude, punk apathy and prog, well... strangeness? Enter Ruins, a drumsnbass duo who played harder than most and screamed better than anyone you knew. And not least importantly, they had their Magma riffs down. This was not prog, mind you, and it certainly wasn't punk (imagine Paul Simonon trying to play \"Graviyaunosch\" yikes!), but it has more indie cred than both put together. I mean, what's more alternative than playing a fivestring bass while yodeling in a madeup language (one actually based on another madeup language) and recording your \"commercial\" album with Steve Albini? I'll just come out and say it: this is not for everyone. But Yoshida has gotten around this pesky gap between the genres by compartmentalizing his music. He has projects that deal exclusively with group improvisation, some that deal with noise, a couple of really good allinstrumental punkprog bands, and KoenjiHyakkei. Koenji is a unique concept for Yoshida, and it may go down as his greatest achievement: the most perfect fusion of straight prog, the avantgarde and hardcore punk. Amen. This is Koenji's third album, and for the record, it's even more overtly proggy than the first two. Former vocalist Aki Kubota left the band, and for any of you who thought she was irreplaceable, you're only half right: Oguchi Kenichi easily fulfills her old role as keyboardist, and much of the music seems to have been written to suit his strengths; and new vocalist Samara Name certainly has the vocal chops to pull off more than her fair share of theatrics. The biggest losses here are Kubota's compositions, which were always among the band's most colorful, particularly given Yoshida's propensity to dominate the proceedings with the vocalist/writer/drummer trisect. She will be missed, but even if the direction has changed slightly, the enthusiasm has not. On NIVRAYM, there's a newfound emphasis on keyboard textures, and a whole new bag of solo breaks. The other Koenji albums stood out from the pack for any number of reasons, but particularly in their lack of flashy improv. Here, Kenichi gets in his licks and then some, similar to Ruins' Symphonica (unusual for the group, with added singers and keyboards), on which he impractically stole the show. In fact, much of this album reminds of Symphonica, also due to a slightly lighter sound than its predecessors. It's no cakewalk, but it's not quite the overloaded powder keg of 1997's II, either. This suits the synths, as well as the vocal lines, which are ever closer to that hallowed qualifier of lore known as \"almost normal.\" But normal is relative, of course, and here, it refers mostly to Magma's zeuhl heritage, and the occasional dramatic soprano lead. Instrumentally, the band plays fairly close to hardedged Rock In Opposition sound. There's a lot of traditional avantprog to this music, with very complex instrumental counterpoint and a kind of playful attitude to experimentation, but the abrasive elements bring it closer to the postmodern of old newschoolers like John Zorn and Mr. Bungle. Overall, NIVRAYM is more refined, and none the cornier for it. One of the great things about this record (and this kind of stuff in general) is that it seems such a glorious reaction to the great records of the past, rather than indebted to them. Put simply: NIVRAYM is one of the better records I heard in 2001. It's fun, challenging, and you'll learn a lot. No, wait, that's school. Try this: it's fun, challenging, and will kick your ass all the way back to Wednesday. Yeah, that sounds right. "}