{"label":" Eastern Developments","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4460/homepage_large.da0ba1fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jascha Hoffman","artist":"Kopernik","title":"Kopernik","text":" Glooms of the liveoaks, beautifulbraided and woven With intricate shades of the vines that myriadcloven Clamber the forks of the multiform boughs... So begins Sidney Lanier's epic poem The Marshes of Glynn, with a lush and transcendent streak of southern naturalism. It's the same feeling I get when I cue up Kopernik's selftitled first album, put out by Scott Herrex92s homespun Eastern Developments label. The duo Tim DeLaney and Brad Lewis are a center of gravity that started warping space as the popambient duo The SightSeers, as in Delarosa and Asora's Crush the SightSeers EP (Delaney's thick upright tone will be familiar to those whose heads have nodded to Savath and Savalis). A late track called \\x93The Sea and the Marsh Are One\\x94 is based on a symphonic version of Lanier's poem, which is an ode to the aquatic splendors of Georgia. In fact, the whole album comes off like the soundtrack for an apocalyptic riverboat cruise. No need for alarm, folks; these boys are natives of Decatur, Georgia. First a shimmering pool opens up in middeck, and steady pulses of backwards piano ripple out into a mournful pizzicato bass. When the bowing starts, it occurs to me that I'm listening to the product of many latenight layers and reversals, waves of addition and subtraction that leave the source material long since dissolved. I later learn that Brad Lewis calls the process \\x93crushing\\x94. \"The pieces are slowly builtup off of my initial abstracts,\\x94 says Lewis on his website. \\x93Tim comes in and adds new melodies, chord stacks and strong but supple bass lines to the original themes and phrases. Finally, after adding a few highlights and accents, we both step back and strip the piece down in layers, sometimes revealing new simpler and chance discoveries...\\x94 A single chord sways in and out, and a halfcadence rises in what even the first time around is obviously The Moment, like an old max92s pupil dilating fully at the moment of his death, the foam of hope on a current of despair. Lanier drives us on:Chamber from chamber parted with wavering arras of leaves, Cells for the passionate pleasure of prayer to the soul that grieves... Suddenly I realize that without the help of attack or envelope, a backwards piano sounds a hell of a lot like a clarinet. The improv bass figures seem to know where the ethereal synthcloud is headed; is the bass really leading, or just following in reverse? I stop wondering when a twangy 12/8 figure pushes its own dopey heat into a fretlessbass solo; skittish strings and a curt, chimpy lament lead into a lavish Mediterranean experiment that for the first time seems composed rather than found. Then \\x93Kopernistax94 flings us out into the savage Central Asian plain, with crackly electronics sucking at struck bass fifths as at a wild yak's teat. A sustained dirge opens on a weathered wooden casket, but a broken beat lights the way to the slitted burial chamber of clarinet. Now seething:When length was fatigue, and when breadth was but bitterness sore, And when terror and shrinking and dreary unnamable pain Drew over me out of the merciless miles of the plain... The Moment now turns in on itself with a huge major cadence, throated into distortion then flicked off like a reeltoreel. The cosmic bombast of Lanier lines like \\x93Unafraid, I am fain to face/ The vast sweet visage of space\\x94 is laid over the lappings and swells of a full orchestra. Even with all the skips and reversals, the constant interference, it's difficult to tell: are we in a concert hall or a tuner in someone's darkened bedroom? Has Chris sampled the rehearsals of his Dad's unfinished symphony and fed them through his friend's laptop? A French horn rises and submerges in the marsh; the camera sweeps out to endless sea, with a simple, sweet electric guitar lullaby to keep the credits rolling.  This is an experiment in cathartic orchestration, and studio ebbandflow. There are enough thick browns and reds, creeks topped with red and yellow leaves, \\x93marshes meshed with a million veins,\\x94 muddy deltas, and grainy sea floors. Inside, there's an epic drama set in geologic time, where everything is either washing, washed away, or water. The flow is endless while it lasts: fatherson nostalgia, cinematic hubris, a saccharine death sigh, all in service of a hymn to the sea expressed in mere water. The endless pivot of the whole album The Moment is just a dark dilation on some deathbed, opening on the first light of the last day of the rest of reverselife.  Decatur represent. "}