{"label":" Vagrant","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4466/homepage_large.374d5101.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Koufax","title":"Social Life","text":" I'm thinking Koufax is more than a little bit jealous of those boys in Hot Hot Heat right about now. Peddling a similar popcorn ball of early 80s newwave influences, a similar haircutimpaired fashion statement, and a similar tendency to trip into overovert Strokes aping, Koufax have every right to wonder why HHH is getting all the press while they've remained rather lowprofile. Perhaps it's a conspiracy of label prejudice after all, Social Life sports the Vagrant rectangle, which likely throws it directly to the bottom of most critics' review stacks. To do so, however, would be a disservice, and this is a diehard Vagrant basher on a steadfastly Vagrantharassing site talking here. It's clear right off that Koufax aspires to much more than the woefolk and punkbynumbers of the rest of the label's ranks, setting their sights instead on keyboardcentric pop with just a touch of snarl and orchestral ambition. There's still a healthy helping of selfpity in the transcript, but toned down and set atop an agreeably lush backdrop, it's not so grating. And from the opening two shots, \"Let Us Know\" and \"Break It Off\", Koufax seem to have all the right ingredients in place: crisp songwriting, charismatic swagger vocals, punchy rhythm, hornembellished riffs. Nobody's gonna hand them any originality awards, but the quartet is confident enough to list their most obvious heroes right on the cover I'd already called Joe Jackson and Elvis Costello before squinting through the fine print; I'm still mystified by Eddie Money (does he have some indiehip period pre or post\"Two Tickets to Paradise?\"). If Koufax is consistently coming out behind Hot Hot Heat on final scorecards, however, it's due to poor showings in the categories of energy and consistency. Singer Robert Suchan might have the same Dexy's timbre down, but he fails to let his voice fly completely off the hinges like consensussplitter Steve Bays. Following suit, the band's arrangements tend to sound considerably more polite than those of their peers, perhaps due to the piano focus on the majority, or perhaps resulting from a toostrict adherence to their forefathers' work (band members in ties on cover = bad sign). Witness the synthy beginnings to songs like \"So Put On\", promising some serious armflail action, but settling all too quickly into a mellow, wineglassinhand strut. Koufax also can't quite keep up to the standards set by the album's first eight minutes, with the material taking a distinct southward turn somewhere around the Glenn Frey saxophone squawk of the title track (or maybe that's where the Eddie Money lovin' comes into play). This unfortunate 80s relic, as well as the pointless marchingband coda to \"So Long to Good Times\", is a sign that Koufax doesn't always quite have the grasp on when to throw in supraband orchestration, too often using horns and strings as crutches to hide limp melodies. Then there's \"Saturday Alone\", with a mistaken vocal turn by croaking drummer Dave Shettler, or \"Simply Passing Time\", a quirky theme marred by some of the most uncomfortable sex lyrics I've heard in my critical career. The group pulls together for a few more standouts in the back end \"Bright Side\" and \"Younger Body\" are pleasant candyshelf pop (though the latter is shameless Stroking) and \"Adultery\" brings to mind the unfairly neglected prePornographers Zumpano. Too bad it's not quite enough to separate them from the 80smining pack, or to earn more than a condescending \"ya got potential, kids\" pat on the back from Rob Mitchum: Maker/Breaker of Careers, but it's probably enough for me to risk keeping a spine emblazoned with the Vagrant logo amongst my other CDs. "}