{"label":" Aesthetics","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4471/homepage_large.837f676f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Derek Miller","artist":"kpt.michi.gan","title":"kpt.michi.gan","text":" On the final track of German electronician kpt.michi.gan's 2003 album Player, Player, he went all Nick Drake. After an album's worth of thorny sine waves and electronic sound deconstructions, Michael Beckett, the techhead behind kpt, scrubbed away his steelwool atmospheres and ended with a stark, nouveaufolk arrangement that left listeners scratching their heads. It seemed a disjointed end to his ethereal computerized compositions. But one listen to his latest, selftitled effort makes it obvious Beckett was simply introducing us to a genre on which he had further designs: pop. Well, perhaps \"pop\" is putting too fine a sheen on it. On kpt.michi.gan, Beckett pits lustrous folk guitar arrangements against his tastes for harsh, unsettling wirescapes. The result is an often stunning but mostly perplexing effort in what one could term staticfolk. Beckett's forcible juxtaposition of autumnal pop songs and academic electronic composition rarely gels; instead, it dissolves into sudden temposhifts and confused atmospheric discord. \"The Summer Session\" opens with the sounds of an electronic slaughterhouse trembling with bloodcurdling squeals and jugular sine waves. Just as the cacophony gets too burdensome, a gorgeous acoustic guitar loop sifts in out of the gore and engulfs the listener in pleasant, sylvan imagery. The transition is too jarring, though, and winds up sounding like two song fragments superglued together in the studio attempting an update of the whimsical psychedelic shifts of \"A Day in the Life\", it falls apart in a chaotic identity clash. On this album, Beckett sings more often than he has in the past but still seems uneasy with his vocals. Much like touring pal and occasional lappop coconspirator Schneider TM, he uses a vocoder to angularize the soft, plush textures of his voice. \"Hey People!\" begs us to cast off our cares and submit to feverish urban lusts, but his vocoded urging seems to hold us at arm's length, making his detached command ring false and hollow. Like much of the album, Beckett wants to carve a line of protest in wet cement, but he's too finicky to use his fingers. Every once in a while, Beckett returns to his roots, unearthing the heathen beauty in mechanized howling and reclaiming the compelling noisesqualls of older compositions like \"Derber Papa\". \"Mount Michigan\" hovers on what sounds like a subtle bagpipe jeer before blending buzzing sine waves and revolving interference into a Fenneszlike ode to hardwired misanthropy. Circular noises hum like natural machinery as Beckett recreates a supermarket ambience, and, reminding us that repetition is the harmony beneath our selfneglect, the is coated in simple, sublime noise. In the end, Beckett dips from the soft/harsh well far too often. On \"Coughsong\", he wheezes into a rolling acoustic guitar part reminiscent of Sea Changeera Beck or Serge Gainsbourg. As the drifting ease begins to loll you sunblind, he splits it headfirst with dirty drums and aggressive static waves. He contorts both his simplistic pop urges and his more obtuse soundscaping, and makes good on neither. Always drooling to have his cake and eat it too, you can't help but wish Beckett were either less the egghead or a little less the popjughead. By now, it's hard to tell just where his strengths lie. "}