{"label":" Plug Research","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/451/homepage_large.c11475b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Ammoncontact","title":"One in an Infinity of Ways","text":" An album's closing track can spoil everything, as Ammoncontact's One in an Infinity of Ways demonstrates. Before the salt is tasted in the sugar, this L.A.based jazzhop unit unveils several nourishing, leftfield instrumental grooves. But when Sol Uprising's Lil Sci delivers a lasercut rap on the record's final track one that would perfectly complement the opener, instrumental spaceout \"Dreamy\" the absence of MCs becomes glaring and the album suddenly seems like a collection of missed opportunities. Or, as Lil Sci puts it: \"That's why I don't judge until I hear the half of the half.\" One in an Infinity of Ways, indeed. In all fairness, the incompleteart element is what Ammoncontact's Carlos Niño and Fabian Ammon are possibly reaching for on their second album, as hiphop and psychedelic jazz instrumentals are often left 50% done for future remixing and rapping. However, when producers can neither afford a set of guests nor rhyme worth a damn, most of the music simply falls in the background for good or ill. That said, \"Dreamy\" falls into the good, and it can leave one seeing purple, red, and orange spots everywhere the eye glances. Bedroomtechno dandy Daedelus supplies the bass clarinet thrumps and acoustic guitar licks that dart about while a flute sample melts the cortex. As previously mentioned, the inclusion of Lil Sci's laidback rhymes about keeping your chin up during adversity may could proven that psychedelica can sell almost any public service announcement. Unfortunately, other choice MC spots also turn up two cherries with each pull of the slots. \"Healing Vibrations\" has a looped Afrojazz beat that nearly rivals the Apache break before Niño and Ammon seamlessly let the music nod off into a 2 a.m. jazz trance courtesy of bassist/guitarist Greg Malone and skinsman Andres Renteria. It's one of many moments when Ammoncontact successfully blur the line between the sampler and live instruments. The threepart \"Infinity of Rhythm Instrumental\" knocks listeners awake with a bludgeon by conga before settling into a methanol haze with downtempo Rhodes funk. Other fine tracks include the PFunk bounce of, ahem, \"Fun Is for Funky\" and the robotic funk of \"Wu Woomp Whoomp\", which struggles to escape the length of its twofoot power cord. Prefuse 73's Scott Herren has called Ammoncontact's sound \"machine funk,\" yet it's one that is devoid of poetry. Bareboned throwaways \"Through the Moon\" and \"Wu Wu Woomp\" (you read right) drag a tepid hiphop beat around in circles dying for the verses of any li'l Johnny who found God in the Gospel according to Emniem. \"Like Waves of the Sea\" has a swank Latinjazz bass riff that sadly goes nowhere, while the staccato orchestral tease \"Ballad of the Untitled\" sounds too incomplete to even count as a lockgroove piece. The demand for an emcee savior is exacerbated with every listen. The nagging title One in an Infinity of Ways implies that Ammoncontact are capable of greater good, and they would've left the listener with a remarkable batch of abstract sketches if Lil Sci hadn't exposed the nudity of it all. I can't wait for the remixes to hopefully correct things. "}