{"label":" RCA / ATO","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4497/homepage_large.9df843de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Ben Kweller","title":"Sha Sha","text":" Welcome to the Hall of Bens, young master Kweller. We've had our eyes on you for some time now, and, with the release of your debut album, Sha Sha, we felt it was time to invite you up for a private tour. At this point in time it's far too early to tell whether you'll one day earn the privilege of enshrinement into our hallowed halls, but we hope that some time in the presence of your fellow Benjamins will help you along the route towards feats as notable as those of your namely peers. Benjamin, in the Holy Bible (and Andrew Lloyd Weber's delightful hit musical), was the youngest and favorite son of Jacob, and here at the Hall of Bens, we honor all of those who accomplish greatness or public notice while sporting such an esteemed name. From Benjamin Franklin, our nation's first great scientist, to Ben Kingsley, acclaimed actor, to Ben Ali, owner/founder of D.C. landmark Ben's Chili Bowl (13th and U St., folks, don't miss it!). Ah, but I see your interest is naturally drawn by the Musician's Wing. Let us enter, and explore your ties to famous rock Bens of the recent past. Ben Lee: Funny you should stop here, as you remind me a lot of Mr Lee. Like you, young Ben was a precocious indie popster, earning attention far beyond his age and, some say, his talent. Lee rose to fame with his Australian outfit Noise Addict before making a number of barely noticed solo records. You earned a certain 10watt glow of fame with Texas powerpop act Radish, and are now releasing the notorious solo major label debut after some cultish tiny recordings. Lee could claim friendship with the Beastie Boys and was signed under their Grand Royal imprint; you, if your linernote thank yous are to be believed, are pals with the Moldy Peaches and Wilco. Need I go on? Make a note: slow down the hype train while there's still time. Ben Folds: Indeed, one of the more polarizing figures in 90s indie circles. Some enjoyed the NC native's tonguefirmlyincheek update of 70s Billy Joel piano rock; others found it too thick with irony. It's pretty clear from Sha Sha which camp you throw your loyalties behind; in fact, it's clear from the opening track, \"How It Should Be\", built around a hardfisted piano progression and winkingly detached nonsense pop syllables. A handful of other Foldsian influences reveal themselves on your record, like \"Falling\" or the centerpiece \"In Other Words\", both of which run from tangent to schlocky schmaltz not unlike a good chunk of the BF5 catalog. Kudos to you, young sir, for balancing out the latter epic's showstopping coda with some wellutilized steel guitar and banjo, allowing for a sideswipe near miss of the syrup tanker truck. Remember what you've learned and you will avoid the mistakes of your predecessors. Ben \"Rivers\" Cuomo: Few people know that Weezer CEO Cuomo is not 'Rivers' by birth, but rather something of a selfloathing Benjamin. Few people know this because it is a complete fabrication. Nevertheless, you leave me no other choice but to mention his name, as every time you pick up a guitar on Sha Sha his thickbespectacled visage is brought to mind. Do not worry, many have worked at Weezer forgery since 1994, and your work is among the better third. In fact, one could probably make an EP out of \"Wasted and Ready\", \"Commerce, TX\", \"Harriet's Got a Song\", and \"No Reason\", and make a small killing passing it off as the lost transition between Pinkerton and The Green Album on eBay. You've got Cuomo's selfdeprecation addiction down perfectly (\"I'm maxed out like a credit card,\" from \"Wasted and Ready\") and the timelessmelodiesmeetingoverdrivecrunch formula is as good as recent Weezer, if not their golden age. But this leads me to my most valuable piece of advice: you must find your own voice, young Kweller, and rely less on the Benjamins who have come before you. I'm quite positive you've got it in you: it shows on \"Lizzy\", a rare, strippeddown folkarranged ditty that puts aside the clever detachment for a rather touching Kodak moment. Right now your slightlytoofrequent derivative moments can be mostly forgiven thanks to heaping helpings of youthful earnestness, but I know you can be more than just a \"Recommended If You Like...\" crossreference. We'll keep a spot open for you, my boy, now go do your fellow Bens proud! "}