{"label":" Noise Factory","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4506/homepage_large.dfc87b21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"K.C. Accidental","title":"Captured Anthems for an Empty Bathtub","text":" My nuclear family is gravely conservative; always has been. My grandfather frequently threatened to rescind the myriad generous bestowals my sister and I were to receive upon his passing if he ever heard we'd cast a Democratic vote. Not a single female constituent in my family, from eight to eighty, dares miss Sunday's Service, and every bite on every plate is blessed before it's fit to ingest. And despite medical evidence to the contrary, my Naval Academybred stepfather insists that a postprandial workday glass of Merlot rather \"puts the edge on.\" Not that I'm complaining; but at times I can't help but yearn for greener pastures. Maybe even just of a different shade. Enter K.C. Accidental, brotherinlaw to Broken Social Scene, and first and second cousin to such venerable assemblies as Do Make Say Think and A Silver Mt. Zion. Alternating stints at the head of the table are Kevin Drew (of Do Make Say Think) and symphonious confederate Charles Spearin. But at this sonic banquet everyone has a voice (even though no one opts to use theirs to actually sing on this record), as fellow You Forgot It in People alum Evan Cranely, James Shaw, and Emily Haines have contributed to the band. As exhibited by the triumphant yet distinctive releases of this reputable sect, lineage doesn't necessitate a unilateral vision. While Captured Anthems for an Empty Bathtub retains several of the elements accountable for the ascendancy of You Forgot It in People, it's the nuanced digressions from this work that are worth noting. \"Nancy and the Girdle Boy\" storms out of the gate with fierce kit work and churning guitar, both of an immediacy much greater than anything on Broken Social Scene's latest. It's the most compact track on the album, but loosens in the end; like a chainsaw spinning down and shaking off the shavings. The rest of the album is several degrees less demonstrative. The postrock homage \"We Wish We Lived in Chicago\" feels like an embryonic, if not slightly unwieldy, druggy jazz venture, and \"Anorexic HeMan\" harkens back to early Björk, employing a clubadaptive beat with almost tranceinducing persistence. The dogged bass feels like it's resonating in from a neighborhood dance party down the street, or from your little brother's speakers next door. At nine and twelve minutes respectively, \"Save the Last Breath\" and \"Tired Hands\" are truly accomplished utilizations of space and texture. The former casts out soft, light touches of piano, percussion, and guitar, almost as if the band is languidly waking up to the instruments they are themselves playing. The song takes a breath and exhales, releasing all the dreamy tension it unconsciously harbored. The latter number is a stark and stunning heartonsleeve realization with slowly constructed underpinnings of nervous energy that never escape, but merely claw and scratch and are finally stretched taut. There are small missteps along the way; by turns too obdurate to be deferential to the whole and too adherent to convention to be as sonically adventurous as the potential here warrants. The stock use of an answering machine on \"Kev's Message for Charlie\", though executed innovatively, disrupts the astral flow of the latter half of the album with unfortunate swiftness. These, however, are mere paltry dissatisfactions. With such a patient and often subtle offering, K.C. Accidental dance around the point a lot, but the glances in are glorious. Not utopian, but at least fraternal to a thoughtful, egalitarian degree, I might be looking to see if any of them are looking to adopt. "}