{"label":" Arista / Star Trak","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4511/homepage_large.b5b2157b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Kelis","title":"Tasty","text":" When you've been the house chanteuse for The Neptunes for the past five years, you'd expect to have enjoyed a more fruitful career than one lived by poor Kelis. The charismatic vocalist is (was?) the perfect voice for Star Trak's scifi disco, and should rightfully be a household name by now. The limelight, however, managed to elude her over the course of her past two albums, marking her for a career more akin to that of Bubba Sparxxx: some critical acclaim, a slight public profile, but otherwise wrongly written off as a diversionary pet project for a superstar producer. It all started well: a duet with ODB (\"Got Your Money\") and a minor hit (\"Caught Out There\", with the memorable refrain, \"I HATE YOU SO MUCH RIGHT NOW!\") from a fantastic debut, Kaleidoscope, which made more than one PFM writer's bestofthe90s list. Sadly, the record an offbeat blend of afrofuturism and futuristic beats was merely a cult hit, and her nolessaccomplished followup, the prescient lofi digital discospattered Wanderland, wasn't even released domestically. A steady stream of guest appearances with everyone from dance producers Richard X, Moby, and Timo Maas to Star Trak cohorts Philly's Most Wanted and N.E.R.D. kept her in the public sphere, if still largely out of the public eye. The result of it all has made Kelis one of the unluckiest women in pop, so when, on her Tasty collaboration with fiancé Nas, she says she wants to get it on \"in public,\" she could as likely mean MTV or the glossy pages of music monthlies as \"a club bathroom or a restaurant mens' room.\" Too often here, it sounds as if she's aiming for that alone, trading the eccentricity and roughedged headsnap of her first two albums for a fairly generic run of radiofriendly sounds: nusoul balladry, a Rick Rubincirca1986 outtake, and some Neptunesbynumbers. Indeed, with Tasty, Kelis has left the rollerrink, returned from outer space, and she's back on her own two feet on terra firma unfortunately. That Nas collaboration, \"In Public\", is possibly the lowpoint of what is often a transparent Beyoncéaping fulllength (starting with the cover art, which bares a striking resemblance to that of the \"Crazy in Love\" single). Naturally, Kelis' relationship with JayZ's onetime sparring partner Nas aids comparisons like this, but they're deserved nonetheless, as the once fiercely individualistic singer now seems content the constitute onehalf of Bonnie and Clyde '04. Despite her concessions to shoot higher in the charts, Tasty is far from all doomandgloom. Ironically, it's one of the album's most adventurous beats, \"Milkshake\", that's providing Kelis a breakthrough all the more reason to lament the pair of sluggish duets with Raphael Saadiq and the woeful Neptunes track \"Sugar Honey Iced Tea\", which both demonstrate touches of straightlaced, polite nusoul. Most of The Neptunes' tracks are fine, and all are recognizable you know the drill by now but little to get excited about. Outkast's Andre 3000 puts in appearance as well, reciprocating for Kelis' guest spot on \"Dracula's Wedding\", with a decent track that, while an improvement on most of his overcooked work on The Love Below, still feels a bit slight, like a sketch or an idea halfrealized and which ironically relegates Kelis herself to the margins. Dallas Austin punches above his weight with \"Trick Me\", on which Kelis advises to \"call the police/ There's a madwoman in town,\" over a skanking, slightly echoed guitar. Alas, that's a warning more apropos for Kaleidoscope and Wanderland, but since neither of those records could get Kelis arrested in this country, she's doing little to draw attention to herself, apparently satisfied that her \"Milkshake\" is quite enough. "}