{"label":" Southern Lord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4512/homepage_large.b8a30bbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Khanate","title":"Things Viral","text":" Khanate play so. Fucking. Slowly. Their \"extreme doom\" descends from grinding to just plain labored. They plug in their amps like they're too tired to breathe, their hands hit their instruments like hundred pound weights. The drummer plays like he's falling limp on the kit. Total silence mires the noise and swallows all hope. Only one of them doesn't go down for the count, and that's singer Alan Dubin. The band makes a fierce rumble, to be sure Stephen O'Malley's repeating, laudanum AC/DC riffs chime like burntout church bells, and James Plotkin will make your subwoofer moan like a masturbating whale; but the dronenoisemetal cascades hang back in a fog while Dubin gets the spotlight. He makes a soliloquy of shrieks and agitation. At turns drowning in a swamp, then shrieking as shrilly as if his throat were pinned open, Dubin protests and wails, vanishing for minutes then coming back at full volume. He lingers over lyrics and then garbles others (\"pockets\" sounds like \"sockets,\" or \"fuck it\"); wails high like our generation's other great existential hero Peter Jackson's Gollum then rasps back to the mists. It wouldn't work if the band didn't stand firm against him. Between the stern music and Dubin's ejaculations lies the existential dilemma: he's struggling without a hope for release, he's mired in conflict but can't picture an end. Dubin fights without advancing a step, and he can't stop fighting even though he has nothing to show for it. Even the music's few peaks fall into thuds instead of blowing into catharsis. It's empty outrage: they're a Sisyphus that can't budge the stone. With an hour of music divided into just four tracks, the tempo crawls it's even slower, and darker, than their selftitled debut. It forces you to obsess over every overtone in O'Malley's guitar, every rip in Dubin's larynx. It's reminiscent of some of Stephen King's stories not the horror ones, but the stories that take you through a drawnout process: digging a carsized pit in the baking desert sun, or crawling around the ledge of an office building. Khanate have that skill for unfolding an action in such excruciating detail that you're slowly edged off your seat. But in this case there's no resolution, aside from an uptick of squealing discordance and a buzzing electronic noise that ushers out the record.Things Viral is extreme enough to appeal to people who don't have any interest in metal; the members cross metal pedigrees with noisedroneartdamage bands from Burning Witch and Old, to Sunn 0))), to Blind Idiot God's Tim Wyskida on drums. It's committed but not overbearing, too resolute and unyielding to resist; it'll grab your skull and hold you achingly still as it thrashes through the depths, then totally, quietly wears itself out. "}