{"label":" Shitkatapult","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4514/homepage_large.08a4531b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Sami Koivikko","title":"Salmiakki","text":" One of the most striking and unexpected things about the first wave of microhouse artists is the number of different directions in which they've moved in such a short amount of time. The original templates set by Thomas Brinkmann, Luomo, Isolée, and Matthew Herbert, among others, broke house music down to its most skeletal and microscopic elements. That deconstruction of house's sometimes rigid rules freed producers from the demands of the dancefloor and created a lot of space in which they could weave or add any number of seemingly disparate styles and accents. Now after years of healthy explorations of the house side of techhouse, an increasing number of artists including Finland's Sami Koivikko are marrying those detailoriented impulses with more driving, traditional techno. Koivikko's initial flirtations with microhouse resulted in the Kut Pulatin series, three subtle, spacious singles of increasingly intelligent minimal dubtechno. Koivikko's profile was raised when some of his tracks were lifted for Kompakt mixes: \"Brythe\" is on Triple R's toooften overlooked Friends and \"Grunis\" is on Tobias Thomas' exquisite Smallville. Koivikko has quickly followed with his debut, Salmiakko, which strays from the Kompakt aesthetic that first brought him wide attention. Salmiakki is the third jewel in Shitkatapult's 2003 triple crown, following the ambient washes of sound of Apparat's Duplex and the lubs and skips of Anders Ilar's Everdom. On it, Koivikko has largely abandoned the atmospherics of his previous work for a more athletic sound. Like MRI, Koivikko has adopted a more traditionalist stance. Yet whereas those disco/house classicists celebrate All That Glitters, Koivikko does almost the complete opposite, dissecting the robotfunk of classic techno. Of Koivikko's earliest tracks, only \"Brythe\" is included here and that's no bad thing, considering that its buoyant shimmer is still the standout in the Finnish producer's arsenal. Elsewhere, Koivikko's work is downright robust. In comparison to most of his peers, he raises the BPMs and places more emphasis on bass, rhythm and propulsion than he does on texture or atmosphere. Like Sascha Funke's Bravo and Villalobos' Alcachofa, Salmiakki oscillates between private listening and more \"public\" sounds (although it leans more heavily to the latter) and still retains more than a few pools of dub. The result is dubby techno call it mood music to cut rugs that's made just as attractive by its thrust as it is by its tone, and is highlighted by the melodic motorik of \"Kampakuta\", the I94meetsAutobahn drive of \"Materialist\", and the noirish \"Matkani\". Microhouse has become so healthy so quickly that it's spawned not only a variety of styles (from the glam of schaffel to digital disco to the neuroromantics of The Present Lover) but also a legion of artists who are doing everything but following blueprints such as Herbert's \"Going Round\" or Isolée's \"Beau Mot Plage\". Salmiakki and DJ Koze's upcoming Kompakt mix offer further indications that microhouse's original elements are rapidly disintegrating. Koivikko is eating the tail of techhouse, winding through its brief history and starting again with a more strict genre sound; DJ Koze's mix does the opposite casting such a wide mix that it risks not having an identity at all. Koivikko's record is more effective but possibly more worrying. Thus far, microhouse has been a consistently surprising sound. Its progenitors have ducked and weaved rather than strayed down the dead end of traditionalism. A potential concern is that if producers do pass go and end up back at the starting line they risk embracing the retro novelty and empty revivalism that is skillfully avoided on much as Salmiakki. "}