{"label":" Nature Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4515/homepage_large.88fe0a27.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"K.M.D.","title":"The Best of K.M.D.","text":" Repeat after me: MF Doom is not Zev Love X. Zev Love X is not MF Doom. Or so he would have had us believe for the last halfdecade. Last year, hiphop paragon MF Doom (aka Daniel Dumile) completely flipped his pancakes and released three albums under divergent personas: Take Me to Your Leader as King Geedorah, Vaudeville Villain as Viktor Vaughn, and another installment in his Special Herbs series as Metal Fingers himself. The move brought him his greatest success to date, and cemented his position at the forefront of underground hiphop. Before the masked man terrorized the undieground with raspy rhymes and hallucinogenic beats, of course, he was Zev Love X, and he represented FivePercenters and bouncy black power sophisticates with the underappreciated collective K.M.D. It wasn't meant to last: After just one album, his brother and bandmate DJ Subroc was struck by a car and killed, and the band's subsequent album was shelved by Elektra Records. Zev reappeared underground in 1997, after nearly five years in hibernation, and has since come correct with an array of records invoking and sampling everything from Stevie Wonder to 1950s monster movies. In anticipation of K.M.D.'s upcoming reunion, Nature Sounds has cobbled together this bestof collection featuring much of the trio's outofprint material. Of course, the disc amounts to little more than a refresher course for the K.M.D.impaired, considering the group only released two proper albums. The first, 1991's Mr. Hood was a sprightly bit of Sesame Streetsampling brilliance that built a narrative around the album's ignorant namesake; the second was mired in controversy for much of the last decade: 1993's Black Bastards, whose cover featured a Sambolike cartoon character being lynched, was put on hold by Elektra, and didn't see official release until 2001 on the Sub Verse label. To this day, Doom believes Elektra's motives went beyond the cover art, noting the more aggressive nature of the album as a possible reason for postponement. So this compilation has been hashed together, somewhat lazily, in hopes of reigniting some interest for the nearly forgotten Long Island crew. Both album's best tracks are lifted and placed in chronological order, without any apparent rhyme or reason, save a few Busta Rhymesfeatured remixes at the album's end. Even the liner notes are slapdash, with snapshots of scribbled notebooks scattered throughout. There are no credits or thank yous, just writtenin chaos, which is apropos of K.M.D.'s sound, but unfortunate for a greatest hits compilation especially one whose subject's history is so notorious. The good news is that virtually every track is a standout, from the rolling piano bump of \"Humrush\" to the wildly original \"What a Nigga Know\". \"Nitty Gritty\", however, showcases hiphop's Five Percent godfathers, Brand Nubian, and exemplifies how they were always better at this type of thing. Zev, Subroc and Onyx were capable and energetic MCs, but lacked the charisma and flow control of Sadat X or Grand Pu. Most of the beats here are selfproduced, and the raw sound, while intentionally grimy, exposes less than uptodate technology in the studio. Even now, MF Doom is prone to taping samples off his VCR. The more incendiary diatribes from Black Bastards are smarter and more focused. By shedding their animated jestercharacters, the trio's rhymes punched through the paperthin walls of alcoholism (\"Sweet Premium Wine\"), drug abuse (\"Stop Smokin' That Shit\") and womanizing (\"Plumskinz\") without succumbing to the pedantic or pretentious tendencies of some of their contemporaries. What's most appealing than this release, though, is that it provides the opportunity to hear a more heliumvoiced Doom as a young and hungry MC, less deluded by death and drugs and more driven by racism and poverty. His evolution into a gruff rapper's rapper would have been hard to envision given some of his goofier appearances here. It should be interesting to see what the schizophrenic genius cooks up for K.M.D.'s forthcoming Mental Illness. Until then, this shoddily assembled set should tide you over. "}