{"label":" GSL","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4516/homepage_large.d7c4cd09.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Kill Me Tomorrow","title":"The Garbageman and the Prostitute","text":" I've generally found live music backed by projected images to be a copout, an obvious way to lead an audience over a predetermined path towards a particularly myopic interpretation: \"I see overexposed mountains and sideways falling snow, therefore I'm sad.\" It's worse when the appropriated imagery falls into one of the following standardized genres: highcontrast industrial locales, 80s videoart wipes/dissolves, suburban 8mm ennui, ironic juxtapositions (i.e. black metal and Sesame Street), fauxBrackhage avant. Such hearttugging nonsense is common enough at stadium shows, and certainly felt at home accompanying downtown performances in the 60s, but over the past few years, the practice has crept into more and more situations that don't make an ounce of conceptual or aesthetic sense. If possible, a much more interesting ideal would be to turn your songs inward in a way that reflected the song's compositional guts. This way you become your visual geography and establish a work that acts as its own stimulus and response. Formed in the late 90s, San Diego's premiere \"noirwave\" trio Kill Me Tomorrow definitely position themselves as a band jamming to their own damaged, apocalyptically stylish science fiction flick. Here, it works, mainly because it's easy to see the band as equal parts DIY art project, welldressed gutterpunk commune, and rousing punkrock act. I admire the selfsufficiency: Bassist and visual artist K8 Wince makes the paintings on the band's records and designs the lopsided tshirts they wear. According to her husband, drummer/multiinstrumentalist Zack Wentz, he's working with her on a novel composed of 13 stories based on the seedy and beautiful characters inhabiting the realm of their newest fulllength, The Garbageman and The Prostitute. In fact, rather than providing lyrics for their releases' liner notes, KMT prints song/story summaries, giving a sense that the actual lyrics are told, not sung. A followup to last year's Skin's Getting Weird EP teaser, The Garbageman and The Prostitute launches through nice feedback, pulling with the littlest, most claustrophobic details of postpunk noise and the percussive spirit of hiphop, dub, and the Butthole Surfers. For those drawn to underbellies, KMT negotiate a jampacked junkyard atmosphere like Blade Runner or Mad Max to write songs that might help the Bones Brigade negotiate a 360 from a corroded halfpipe. They overload their sonic palette with garish grumbles, screeches, trashcan noise; at the front of the mix lie processors, samples, and drum machines, establishing a schizophrenic duststorm that flits and sails around the central guitar/bass/drums. Voices drift and shout at the same level, another color of paint. For me, The Garbageman and The Prostitute works best taken in sections; all at once, the insistence of the sprung rhythm gets exhausting the flatter materials are undistinguished. In the best songs, you can feel a front, middle and back, each member chipping away at a different area and uncovering all sorts of potential in their surroundings. \"Xerox My Hand\" mixes kinetic Texan twang and angular skree to impart the story of an office worker who, after copying his body with a Xerox machine, realizes he can spot the ghosts of past employees, as well as ratrace comrades of the future. The particularly meta \"This Is a Movie\" is OMD carjacked by Crass breakdowns appear, turning out a shriveling bout of chooseyourownadventure noise, dance loops, and grumbling amphetamines. \"I Require Chocolate\" discovers sex crimes in the heart of a superhero and turns The Commodores' \"Three Times a Lady\" into a frantic teenage riot, its shimmering guitar outro and schematic return to tunefulness reminiscent of the blasted beauty of distortion mastered by SY in their salad days. After \"I Require Chocolate\", the record skids into a bit of a lull. Some tracks are muddled, others too repetitious. Before the formula wears too thin, though, KMT gain momentum with the title track, which honestly possesses a Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights feel (if rebrewed as werewolf lore). After dullsville, this cathartic rampage emerges amplified and all the more jubilant. While The Garbageman and The Prostitute isn't a complete success, it remains a worthwhile treat. Whether looting a 711 or inhabiting the body of a transsexual, Kill Me Tomorrow convincingly navigate within a universe of their own making a rambunctious scene crammed with scattered, toppling, spraypainted things. "}