{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4517/homepage_large.2b768633.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Neil Robertson","artist":"King Creosote","title":"Kenny & Beth's Musakal Boat Rides","text":" As part of Scotland's looseknit Fence Collective, Fifeborn Kenny Anderson has been careering around the indie circuit for years, producing selfreleased CDRs at the kind of prolific pace that would make Ryan Adams look like a recluse. Now, with his cult status ensured through his affiliation with the littleknown Fence Collective and Khartoum Heroes, he gives us Kenny & Beth's Musakal Boat Rides, his first ramshackle release of hardhearted, sampleaddled lofi folk. When he gets it right, the results can be quite beautiful. As an accordion weeps with an asthmatic wheeze and a sole guitar plucks in the distance, Anderson slurs through \"Lavender Dream\", detailing some spoilt fantasy, aided and abetted by labelmate James Yorkston's effortless harmonies. With its single lyric, \"You've got rise about the gutter you are inside,\" the sparse acoustics of \"Harper's Dough\" are perversely uplifting, promising hope and redemption from life's great lows. Here, King Creosote seems similar in mood to fellow Scottish miserablists Arab Strap, dispensing barroom philosophy that treads a thin line between downbeat observation and the faith that something better will come. Some of the record's more uptempo offerings aim for the strange synergy of classic folk and electronics attempted by the likes of The Beta Band, with whom Anderson's brother Gordon (now of Lone Pigeon) cowrote \"Dry the Rain\". \"Homeboy\"'s buoyant marchingband beat and underbelly of samples and looped vocal fragments only enhance the song's bold melodic grandstanding, while \"So Forlorn\" sounds like hiphop that's been gutted of its gruff machismo and hijacked to suit the screwed muse of its author. But for all the blissful torchsongs here, there are certainly elements that frustrate. The lovely \"Counseling\" may be embellished with Anderson's sweet Scottish croon, but it stops dead and undeveloped at just over 90 seconds, as it runs out of things to say. And when the songs don't crash to an abrupt end, they can tend to meander without ever getting started. For example, the number of ideas shown in the labored \"Friday Night in New York\" can't justify it stretching into an eightminute odyssey of slowmotion strumming. In spite of its faults, King Creosote's debut can still be seen as a charming piece of bashful and embittered troubadouring, and a clutch of touching lamplight laments that manage to outshine its tendency to flit from emotion to idea without always knowing how to connect the two. It may soon be forgotten in the rush to discover the next great songwriter, but for a few late nights in the timid uncertainty of the new year, a few of the songs on Kenny & Beth Musakal Boat Rides may find your softspot, and proceed to stroke, push and pester it into submission. Sometimes that's all you can ask. "}