{"label":" Nettwerk","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4518/homepage_large.83772c24.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Kinky","title":"Atlas","text":" \"You paint everything in colors instead of black and white,\" taunts Gil Cereso on the first track of Kinky's sophomore effort, Atlas. The song, titled \"El Presidente\", is meant as a jab at Mexican president Vicente Fox's noncommittal politics, but could easily apply to the band as well. Kinky refuse to define themselves by genre, generation, or nationality; with rash splashes of funk, electronica, batucada, and good, oldfashioned guitar rock, they throw a Technicolor tantrum that shows the up side of globalization. As the name implies, Kinky's swing isn't rough trade or edgy fetishism: Simply put, this fivepiece out of Monterey Mexico's gritty, thriving industrial center make dancefloor ear candy balanced by a refreshingly giddy naivete and sophisticated, hipshaking rhythmic approach. Though Atlas doesn't bring the same sexedup potency as their selftitled debut, its No World Border pastiche pushes the band a step further on the international stage and proves these guys are serious about their fun. Where their first album featured dense, sequenced keyboard textures, Atlas finds Kinky making electronic music that genuinely rocks, and like French housefunk outfit RixF4çérôse, they take up guitars as their weapon of choice. Producer Chris Allison (Beta Band, Coldplay) plays a major role in icing down the band's sound, never sapping the life from these snappy, crystalclean barnburners. Lead guitarist Carlos Chaires gets substantial facetime on tracks like \"Do U Like It?\", a blazing instrumental propelled by timbale breakbeats, and \"SaltaLeninElAtlas\", with its wicked Brazilian rhythm, vocoded chorus, and Cesar Pliego's fuzzy, distorted bass. Cake vocalist John McCrea makes an appearance as \"The Headphonist\", his straightfaced narrative backed by bright horn samples, swollen organ, and percussionist Omar Gongora's incessant cumbia beat. Suffice to say, Cake's funkpop sensibility and ironic intellectual bent clearly rubbed off on Kinky during 2002's Unlimited Sunshine tour. Opening with a radio rock riff and bouncy bass, \"Airport Feelings\" gets a trumpet treatment as Cereso croons, \"Now your skin is my runway/ I'm ready for a landing.\" It's on these Englishlanguage songs that the band's youthful, wideeyed charm renders some rather poetic concepts somewhat goofy and cloying. \"My God Is So Quiet,\" goes one song, \"that sometimes I can't hear him when he speaks loud.\" \"Not Afraid\" strings together stoneriffic musings like, \"They say that rugs are just floor with overgrown hair/ And the broom is the comb/ The vacuum is the blow dryer.\" Cute and clever, if shallow, these lyrics might better be rendered in Spanish Cereso is far more articulate in his native tongue. The two tracks with the sharpest melodic focus are standouts for both their uniqueness within the album's context and as truly memorable, progressive pop compositions: \"Minotauro\" bumps Far East tabla up against Southoftheborder rocanrol with humming synthlines, a hardrock bridge, and a sunny, blissedout chorus. Meanwhile, the album's closer, \"Semillas De Menta\", plays like a bossa nova lullaby, a total departure from the dancefloor dynamite which it follows. A band with incredible talent and potential for mass appeal, Kinky is too infatuated with their multiculti influences and allinclusive musical ethic to pull together the cohesive, definitive opus they may be capable of. The relentless touring and explosive, sweatdrenched live shows they're known for should continue to refine their sound. Hopefully, it won't drain their machismo. "}