{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4519/homepage_large.ff8c542f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Kat Cosm","title":"Knightboat EP","text":" When I think of twee laptop pop, I remember an interview where Richard James talked about taking his computer to bed with him, and finding pleasure in the way it warmed his sheets. I suppose it's taking the idea of the bedroom musician to its logical conclusion. I realize that there's too much of this music floating around for some people, but I like the idea of light, quiet indie pop made with computers. It seems such a natural fit. Berlin's Kat Cosm is a boy/girl duo (Sebastian Skalei and Jana Plewa) that combines guitar, piano, and yes, computer processing, and Knightboat is their second record, a long EP with three remixes of the title track added. The opening title track immediately presents Kat Cosm's modus operandi, with outoftune electric guitar providing texture against acoustic strumming, bits of Rhodes keyboard, and crunchy Corneliusstyle drum programming. Enormously inviting as it builds over its six minutes, the song winds from a lengthy intro through Skalei's hushed verses, until it finishes with a big, heartswollen chorus which finds Plewa chiming, \"We can't go on like this.\" It's a nakedly romantic, corny, whitebread thrill which is exactly what this sort of music is supposed to be. \"My Letter of Fate I Write for You Tonight\" is Plewa's showcase, opening with just her voice and piano, and then folding in bits of melodica and electronic keyboards. She carries the tune well, recalling old folkie Rickie Lee Jones, but ultimately, the piece is a bit too short, and as a result seems simply like a sketch of what could have become a standout track. The instrumental \"Hotgirl\" is pleasant enough, relying mainly on acoustic guitar, but would better serve as an interlude on a longer album than as a fully realized EP cut. \"Circle/A Little Wetsan\", meanwhile, is a damn good tune, finding Skalei at the piano, crooning like Bacharach as slide guitar and some odd noises flit about the background. The three remixes of \"Knightboat\" show the song to be remarkably pliable. Planet \\xB5's Leafcutter John finds the light and airy core at the song's center, adding fluttering percussion and successfully looping a particularly appealing melodic nugget. TenEcke plays up the melancholy, foregrounding the chorus and draining the tune's rhythmic bed before adding a perfect blast of overdriven guitar. The closing mix by Mondomarc is all about beats and remains connected to the original only subliminally. \"Knightboat\" really is a fantastic pop song, and it sounds good pulled apart and reassembled into these configurations, but the rest of the EP is a tad patchy. Somehow, though, in spite of virtually being a maxisingle with three Bsides, Knightboat makes for a decent listen straight through. Kat Cosm: from their bedroom to yours. "}