{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4520/homepage_large.02a3721a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Justus Köhncke","title":"Zwei Photonen EP","text":" Everything is better in the summer. I walked to the record store yesterday listening to Justus Köhncke, dreaming about Xcaret and Viet girls who refuse to wear their hair up. This is a time for opening up your cold, wet fists and letting the sun burn your palms like oversized smiles. It doesn't have to mean anything, walking next to the joggers and discfootballers in the soccer field, our insides bursting, grinning in the knowledge that God's favorite season is here. The answer is clear: Step inside the record store and tell the first girl you meet that she's beautiful. Ask her to walk outside, come see how even the kids stuck in lessons on the tennis courts know what's going on, how you knew she was the one even before opening the broken front door. These things only make sense a few weeks a year, so now is the time. German fantasy disco perpetrator Köhncke has scored a nearperfect doublesided anthem for the finest season with his latest Kompakt 12inch, Zwei Photonen. \"Timecode\" and \"The Answer Is Yes\" shimmer with the careless, shortsighted euphoria that dies out on cue come September. This is music that in the dog days of August, and the splendor of midsummer, seems telegraphed from some omniscient machine, transmitting electrobeats and Korg lines as if they were just another part of getting burnt and dancing until four. Furthermore, Köhncke has suddenly appeared to find his calling as a New Romantic soul man. Unlike last year's fine \"Homogen\" single, his textures on this record forgo the normally cool Kompakt template, opting for an unabashedly red (or pink) palette of sounds. 2002's Was Ist Musik had hinted that Köhncke could be a fine disco archivist, pulling grooves out of the Moroder handbook, and adding his own pseudosmooth vox to accentuate the hooks. As it happened, his smooth, yet precisely enunciated singing style made me a bit uncomfortable prior to this 12inch, my fave vocal performance on a Köhncke track was Erlend Øye's a cappella on \"2 After 909\" from his DJ Kicks mix. \"The Answer Is Yes\" changed my mind. The Bside of this release makes the case that Köhncke could seduce anyone, provided he's armed with this track's classic 80s synthpop arrangement and infallible chorus, and psychedelic summer love. The tempo is ultraslow and those drums hit hard, like Barry White gone robotic; the chord progression is born from Pet Sounds and \"Strawberry Fields\", giving ample room for Köhncke to let his breathy stylings run wild. He sings in German for the verses, leaving long spaces between his elongated phrases for the reverb to splash up against any bodies in range. At the chorus, he intones \"the answer is yes, yes, yes,\" as if it wasn't entirely obvious. The dancefloor gets hers on \"Timecode\", with another efficiently executed take on Moroderpowered electrodisco. However, keeping in the summery spirit, its strains are extroverted rather than micro; buoyant and flashy instead of hip and minimal. If you're doing a mix, don't lead off with it, but put it near the top because it can sustain whatever you have going; if you're playing Vice City, let it blare as you wreak havoc through the streets, cab surfing and racking up stars. Zwei Photonen (or the apt \"two photons\") inaugurates summer with a diamond glare and the wise purr of whomever you hear it with. Don't waste this stuff. You know it only comes along once a year. "}