{"label":" Plexifilm","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4522/homepage_large.215a742d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Matt & Bubba Kadane","title":"Music from the Film Hell House","text":" Not only do film scores lead double lives, but they must serve opposing purposes in each. Most obviously, the music must compliment the story, tone, and theme of its film so subtly and so organically that it can not be separated in viewers' minds from the images. At the same time, a truly noteworthy score should be strong enough to play on its own as something more than background music. Exceedingly rare is the film score that can live both lives equally well a few by Bernard Hermann comes to mind but most hem to one extreme or another, as is the case with Matt and Bubba Kadane's score for Amarillo native George Ratliff's 2001 documentary Hell House, which follows the congregation of the Dallasarea Cedar Hill Trinity Church as they stage their annual Halloween Hell House. Instead of a typical haunted house, this Hell House scares visitors with everyday terrors through elaborate skits about the evils of homosexuality, raves, birth control, abortion, the occult, internet dating, and anything but the most extreme fundamentalism. As an independent piece of music, the Kadane Brothers' score works fairly well. Produced by Steve Albini, it's spare and ponderous, its dueling guitars on \"Hell\" and \"Alex\" recalling their work with Bedhead and The New Year. It's also surprisingly resourceful: A banjo plucks out the precarious melody of \"Demons\", a trumpet plays a strange rag on the outro \"Wrestling\", and \"Sex Before Marriage\" ends with a toy piano, which could be a punchline. It is a little too atmospheric and a little too aimless, structured by the rhythms of the scenes and not by the needs of the tunes, but at a length of around 18 minutes, it never overstays its welcome. However, as a soundtrack to the film, the Kadanes' curious score sounds heavyhanded and manipulative. Ratliff tries (with varying degrees of success) to be objective and give the Hell House cast and organizers enough rope to hang themselves: His camera captures the implicit racism of consigning all your minority players to roles as drug dealers, the unintentional antiSemitism of a sixsided \"Satanic\" pentagram star, the competitive excitement of the Trinity Christian School students auditioning for roles as suicide and incest victims as if trying out for the school play. The absurdity of the enterprise is painfully obvious, as is the faith of its participants, and Ratliff admirably refrains from reinforcing either. However, with its ominous tone, the Kadanes' soundtrack not only misses but occasionally even undercuts this objectivity. The most egregious example is \"Speaking in Tongues\", which plays in the background as several of the Cedar Hill congregants describe speaking in tongues during church services. The Kadanes score the scene with droning guitars that sound eerie and portentous. It is, perhaps unintentionally, villain music, signaling the approach of something evil and foreboding. Glossolalia is certainly an intriguing phenomenon, and while the documentary wisely does not try to debate its validity, Ratliff seems genuinely curious and openminded about the practice. The Kadanes' music, though, sounds too decisive and almost condemning as it excuses viewers from taking the subject matter seriously. Overall, the tone of the Kadanes' score feels worlds away from that of the movie: It sounds too judgmental for a film that, despite its muddled structure, at least tries to give its subjects the benefit of the doubt, even as it hints at the delusions of its participants. Ultimately, Hell House, like so many documentaries, needs no soundtrack and in fact suffers from one. "}