{"label":" Magaibutsu","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4524/homepage_large.bd245eb4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Korekyojin","title":"Arabesque","text":" Dinosaurs: On the Discovery Channel they get big crowds, but in music they're usually given the fossilized bum's rush. I've never completely understood this. Weren't dinosaurs streamlined models of evolutionary efficiency, perfected over millions of years into refined predators, environmentally friendly herbivores and the sleek ancestors of birds? Well, yes, but they had the misfortune of being selected for extinction and having their good names applied to bad stadium rock and lumbering, progressive rock sideshows. It's easy to slander Boston and Emerson, Lake & Palmer as obsolete cousins of the brontosaurus because it's funny, and there's a kernel of truth in the notion those bands were designed to fail; their best tunes were 6minute studio concoctions that relied on you being either drunk, stoned or acutely drawn to unremarkable frontmen. Still, to buy into standard rockcrit ideas of \"dinosaurs\" is to assume the only worthwhile thing those old lizards ever did was die. Over the last 20 years, Japanese drummer and composer Tatsuya Yoshida (Ruins, KoenjiHyakkei) has made a point to disprove this idea, resuscitating various species of lively dinosaurs. His Ruins duo hijacked hardcore punk with the intention of bringing the savage theatrics of France's Magma, Italy's Area and Sweden's Samla Mammas Manna to an audience beyond the usual dark, clinical corridors of prog. Those three influences all particularly rare and exotic species would indicate Yoshida's penchant for obscure beasts, but his Korekyojin trio (also featuring Bondage Fruit guitarist Natsuki Kido and Altered States bassist Mitsuru Nasuno) reveals a more bloated collection of fossils: Led Zeppelin, Yes (circa Relayer, no less) and Rush. Yet, ever the organized paleontologist, Yoshida cleans and polishes his bones, removes the excess mud and clay, and constructs aggressive, razorsharp skeletons of intimidating beauty and concision.Arabesque is Korekyojin's second album, and betters their 1999 selftitled release on John Zorn's Tzadik label. The tunes are more focused, generally forgoing Yoshida's tendency to either splatter songs with chaotic improv or maddeningly acrobatic \"melodies.\" Make no mistake, these guys flaunt their shit check the lockedin fireworks of \"Freestone\", especially Kido's virtuoso funkinflected lines, or Nasuno's ridiculously dexterous bass work on \"Quicksilver\" but it's the kind of shit that, believe it or not, actually gave a prog a good name for a short period in the early 70s. And for good reason, as Arabesque could school any number of modern \"brutal prog\" acts (cf. Lightning Bolt, Guapo, Flying Luttenbachers) on how to string together 12 disparate sections into a 5minute tune and not have come out a) disorganized, b) disjointed or c) too fucking insane to listen to. Furthermore, Korekyojin is an allinstrumental project, so if you were holding out on this camp until they got the vocals under control, your ship has come in. The title track busts out the Zep riffs right off the bat, and where Ruins would just as soon sour the punch with all manner of screeching histrionics, these guys pounce like brawny assassins all over you. Yoshida's drums are big and spacious, like they had to reserve a symphony hall just to get the right reverb on his China. You better believe he's a dinosaur. \"Counterpoint\" rams it all back home with a guitar riff born from \"Immigrant Song\", but allowed to zig and zag through Yoshida's head until coming out a raptor of a decidedly more violent, sadistic bent. After a particularly muscular bout of group improv (again, check the bass), the trio lands on another Zepinformed riff, though this time it's \"Dazed and Confused\" gone Bartok. Aio! There are a few calm pieces on Arabesque (particularly the Easterntinged \"Presage\", about as pretty a piece of music as Yoshida has ever released), but Korekyojin's main appeal lies in their abilities to rawk as calculating carnivores and make even their adhoc moments seem bound to perpetual forward momentum. Mind the claws. "}