{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4525/homepage_large.44341c55.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Keane","title":"Hopes and Fears","text":" I'll happily admit if I turn out to have been wrong and only time will tell but Keane sound like they'll be the last in a long line of British bands who've grown tired of miming Radiohead and now simply aim for the much more imitable sound of Coldplay. I say \"last\" because Keane's debut album, Hopes and Fears, is so miserably and calculatedly maudlin that it almost seems capable of killing the trend started by Travis and passed like a relay baton to Starsailor and, eventually, Snow Patrol. Coldplayahatas will loathe Keane; most others will just be insulted. Inexplicably, the band was recently shortlisted for the Mercury Prize. Keane consists of three wellmeaning guys from East Sussex: drummer Richard Hughes, pianist Tim OxleyRice, and singer Tom Chaplin. With this limited instrumental setup, Keane ought to sound like either some bizarroworld version of Ben Folds Five or that pickup band that played your cousin's wedding. Whether those options would be better than what they actually sound like is up for debate. OxleyRice does attempt to salvage the wreck by channeling U2 circa\"New Year's Day\". His piano forms the main melodies, and combines with Hughes' drumwork to form a technically competent rhythm section. The almost minimalist approach of these two could potentially have served as the foundation for a mildly compelling or at least passable album, one closer in spirit to the chilledout ambience of this album's only nothorrible track, \"Untitled 1\". The problem is Chaplin, who sings as though he's trying to talk you down from a ledge (and failing), belting out tunes with all the bombastic earnestness of James Walsh and Fran Healy combined, but no sense of subtlety or melody. Every song on Hopes and Fears soars, as if winging a gossamer wind to scale the heights of heaven and touch the cloudy hand of God. Across the span of 11 tracks, there are maybe 13 triumphofthehumanspirit choruses, each trying to outuplift the previous. \"Bend and Break\" is particularly egregious: \"If only I don't bend and break,\" Chaplin wails as the chorus swells to bursting, \"I'll meet you on the other side/ I'll meet you in the light.\" Silly as the lyrics are, they might have more impact if every other song on Hopes and Fears didn't work the same melodramatic, softverse/loudchorus template with the predictability of a bad xFCmetal band (or if Chaplin didn't repeat more or less the same sentiment each time). Writing such dramatic melodies undeniably takes talent, but putting so many of them back to back takes not only a penchant for repetitious banality, but a particularly rampant egotism: Not since All That You Can't Leave Behind has a band tried quite so hard to change your life. It's strange, then, that Chaplin puts his own life squarely at the center of these songs both vocally and lyrically rarely affording consideration to anyone else, even his bandmates. There are other people in these songs, but like Hughes and OxleyRice, they're only present as a framework for his projectile vocals, and to reflect his morally superior intentions or ideas about friendship, music and love. In addition to nebulous notions of life and love and hazy references to \"change\" and \"the light,\" Chaplin peppers his songs with vague pronouns she, you, and it but I predominates. And when he's not condescending (\"I don't know you and I don't want you till the moment your eyes open\"), he's engaging in a kind of selfcentered therapy (\"Everybody's changing and I don't feel the same\") that wears increasingly thin from the moment Hopes and Fears begins. That line from \"Everybody's Changing\" is telling: For all their elitist pomposity, Keane are just bandwagonjumpers, without an original thought or even a trace of charisma to save their rep. My hope is that they'll fade unceremoniously into obscurity; my fear is that they'll breed still more Coldplay knockoffs, eventually saturating Stateside department store P.A.s with all their bloodless sobbing. On some level, I'm optimistic that Keane's eighthwave mimicry could signal the end of this particular brand of copycatting; on another, I know that it simply points to a future in which upstart British bands aim to sound just like Franz Ferdinand instead. "}