{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4527/homepage_large.20eac44e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liam Singer","artist":"Konk","title":"The Sound of Konk","text":" With the rise of electroclash's popularity in the last few years, the sounds of robotic discofunk have been seducing fashionable nerds onto the dancefloor in record droves. And with the parallel surge of interest in the early 80s New York scenes, it's a good time to discover Konk, an act that was born out of jazz, early hiphop, and disco to create a fusion (certainly a dangerous word) of the better kind. Led by saxophonist Dana Vlcek, Konk channeled sounds ranging from the alien hooks of Pfunk to the stilted grooves of krautrock through early80s technology. Of course, a band with such a periodspecific sound risks seems more silly than relevant 20 years later, but happily, Konk is both at once. It's cheesy, for sure, but if you dig good times, then The Sound of Konk a collection of their singles and LPs (such as Yo! and Jams) is ready for action. Like postpunk referencepoint the Talking Heads, Konk apply the rhythms and melodies of Latin music within funk's staccato pulse. But while the Talking Heads' experimentation is contained in song forms, Konk maintain a funksprawl ideology in a system that foretells acidjazz a slew of solos and sections announce themselves unprovoked over shifting grooves, creating nonlinear yet highly organized multipart jams. With several layers of live and electronic percussion, Konk compel movement. You don't need to dance to enjoy the music, but Konk won't likely do much for you if you're sitting still driving, running, cooking, or partying are all recommended Konkenhanced activities. Konk's integration of live instrumentation and electronic manipulation remains impressive, combining synthesized sounds that are still imperfect enough to sound human with musicians of precise virtuosity. While Konk is often lumped with fellow downtown experimentalists Glenn Branca (with whose ensemble Konk shared members) or ESG, the strongest link there is a shared interest in the deconstruction and reformation of musical elements, especially in live performance. Simultaneously, Konk shares just as much common ground with the prototechno of The Art of Noise or Yello. Like these acts, plenty of gated snare drums and Max Headroomstyle vocal manipulation keep the mood of Konk gleefully rooted in the 1980s, but Konk's timeless horn section and airtight basslines save them from the fate of becoming a technological artifact.The Sound of Konk begins with one of Konk's most conventional tracks, instrumental \"Baby Dee\" (the bonus live version includes some excellent Kurtis Blowstyle MCing). Delayed female vocals intertwine with a robotic male chorus in \"What U Want\", before the song lets loose a prolonged rhythmic breakdown of drums and synth bass. \"Love Attack\" begins with a monologue highlighting various dangers of an oncoming love attack such as when \"some girls think a kiss is a contract\" segueing into a vocoded chant that could be taken from one of Señor Coconut's Kraftwerk covers. \"Soka La Moka\" breaks up the relative rhythmic homogeneity of the album with a tumbling bongo beat and klezmer horns. To today's ears, The Sound of Konk combines true dance pleasure and experimentation with the humor of the groovy whiteboy sound embodied/parodied by Gary Wilson. Should Konk be given credit for the accidents of history, accruing value like a fine wine as their once cuttingedge technology matures into bootylicious kitsch? Should a band be adored for the same criteria that could be used to criticize them? Maybe not, but in the words of Shirley Bassey via Propellerheads, \"Why ask your head? It's your hips that are swinging.\" Beneath Konk's dated sound is some, well, intelligent dance music, and given the current popularity of !!!, or live/electronic hybrids like VHS or Beta, Soul Jazz chose the right time to unleash The Sound of Konk upon a funkhungry land. "}