{"label":" Type","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4528/homepage_large.6088e4bc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Khonnor","title":"Handwriting","text":" For a moment, try to forget that Connor KirbyLong (aka Khonnor) is 17 years old, and that his cliched misspelling of his own first name underscores his immaturity. The Vermont native's debut album, Handwriting, sounds as if it lingers underneath a lone, orange phosphorescent streetlight in the vacant lot outside a gated, suburban community. KirbyLong maintains a sense of poetic distance with processedguitar symphonics that dissolve into the ether like blood rushing into freshly noisedamaged ears. While listening to the record, Fennesz immediately come to mind especially on the album closer, \"Tattletalent [Encore]\", whose hymnal guitar shutters seem sampled from the Austrian maestro's Live in Japan. However, KirbyLong domesticates this otherwise raw and deeply impressionistic sound, turning it into something more lyrical, coherent, and reminiscent of shoegaze. Faithful to the shoegaze tradition, KirbyLong's mutterings are often incomprehensible and evoke emotions that cannot be adequately described by the English vocabulary. Yet, if the digital paint was removed and the song's sketches were intact, Handwriting would be little more than conventional looped guitar melodies set to an autopiloted, drum machine beat. In other words, the album's \"folktronic\" elements are ornaments rather than qualities that can walk on their own. But the kid still returns with Polaroids of his adolescence and sexual frustrations to tack on his bedroom corkboard and lament over redeyed, backstabbing girlfriends and all. Given his age, one can understand KirbyLong's sense of being promised the world and then realizing he is owed nothing. \"Finally convinced myself that I'm not living,\" croons the poor sod on opener \"Man from the Anthill\", on which he bathes his yearning in amniotic static and steel guitar. KirbyLong prays that he'll stroll through the garden by Jesus' hand, but is still waiting for an answer after \"14 hours... and 61 bus stops.\" He then mires the good Lord's response into a din of scrambled FMbroadcast voices, all of them speaking in tongues. \"Daylight and Delight\"'s familiar indie rock guitar riff drives across a dirt road in a slight, heatstroked daze. KirbyLong finds shade in a vivid orchestration of ringing guitar drones and sauntering piano melodies that mold into a fine trance just before the song's unfortunate fadeout. \"Dusty\" uses the same palette: It's a sleepwalking Pavementstyle ballad colored in spots by Fenneszesque hits of static disruption and a great faded guitar that struggles as it gasps for air. Less successful are \"Megans Present\", which uneasily balances KirbyLong's croon between a wavering female voice and a schmaltzy new age synthline, and the poorly mixed guitar warbles of \"The Stoned Night\". The album's centerpiece, \"An Ape Is Loose\", has a mournful yet optimistic guitar hook that could be looped for an hour and still sound alive. It's a pity that this glorious moment only lasts for half of the tune, and it's also an example of why KirbyLong needs to have patience with his best ideas. And if he also opened his mouth a bit wider and dialed his vocal radio to a cleaner signal, we might even pick up some profound verses. "}