{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4529/homepage_large.0c087c41.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Derek Miller","artist":"k-os","title":"Joyful Rebellion","text":" Too many emerging hiphop artists build their reputation by slandering the genre's contemporary trends. It's the Catch22 of an artform built on both evolution and revolt: Each new artist is eventually put in the crosshairs by his or her followers. Torontobased hiphop spiritualist KOs is no different, and on opener \"Emcee Murdah\" he reminds us that from the start. Unraveling slow spitfire rhymes against a doomsday guitar loop, KOs complains, \"Emcees keep faking/ Hoping to make the bacon,\" insisting that \"they want the cash flow/ They steady schemin' for the #1 spot.\" Ageold complaints, indeed, and with each passing year and every halfhearted attempt to reform pop music's greatest cash cow, such grievances have become one of the genre's most absurd ironies. The vanity in these pedantic holierthanthouisms turns what is meant to be an expression of individuality into a cheap boast. In short, it's the sort of plea for attention that's being attacked in the first place. We all know that it's easy to be the hater the question is whether KOs has the chops and vision to back his boasts. As usual, the answer is no. Instead, the musical tapestry beneath KOs' rhymes is Joyful Rebellion's greatest strength. Tracking the spiritual crossroads of hiphop, reggae, soul, and flamenco, Joyful Rebellion stirs each of those ingredients into an album that, at the very least, deserves acclaim for blending classic and often forgotten Afrosounds into 04's hiphop scene. \"Man I Used to Be\" brings the lockstep beat of \"Billie Jean\" and an MJ falsetto to a Princefigured soul jam that comes complete with velvety string loops. KOs speeds his rhymes in time to the track's heated bursts and unlike on the opener, where his pace seems willfully slow he's steady enough to keep up with the sharp beat. Although the song's late70s acousticdisco strut walks a fine line between parody and ode, it's hypnotic enough to make you not bother trying to guess its intent. \"Crabbuckit\" is a New Orleans frontstoop jam bursting at the seams with stomping bass and hand claps. Against the song's heatfaded piano, KOs' flow is as steady as the Mississippi flooding St. Louis Cathedral he rolls out crisp, sharp rhymes against the track's grotto rhythms. The sound of Tom Waits left to wrinkle in the shouted gales of a hurricane, the song gives the album's first third a sweltering momentum that takes a while to dissolve. Yet, dissolve it does, as what at first seems like multifaceted musicianship fades into fractured genrehopping. \"Crucial\" never escapes its watery reggaetinged rhythms or matches its anthemic aspirations, and \"One Blood\" is yet another song protesting the state of hiphop. At these moments, it would be easy to write KOs off as little more than a preachy peace troubadour. Fortunately, KOs lulls you into allowing him the space to preach and convert on \"Hallelujah\". Working a greasy porchfront entreaty that's part culture and part Rainbow Coalition, the song is a simple paean to peace and ease. Adrift on a steady acoustic guitar and ascending strings, KOs sings more than he rhymes, slowing himself to the leathervoiced husk of Bunny Wailer's more worldweary moments. While confronting fatigue, KOs remolds the possibilities of the genre he's railing against. He strains himself inside the closure of a dying fire, and finally proves capable of shaping towers out of dustblack cinders. "}