{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4537/homepage_large.e883dfbf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"DJ Kaos","title":"Hello Stranger","text":" Oh shit, Snax on the mix! Matt B on the fat B! Back the fuck up! Here comes motherfucking Erlend, doing that motherfucking thing he does! Fuckingshit C+C electro Power Rangers! Sweet weed with dicks, Øye's making his Øface! No doubt, this album was a blast to record a partyandahalf in a small room with only awesome dudes. If Hello Stranger isn't terra nova, Berlin's old man technogloom DJ Kaos has definitely loosened up a bit since the other things he used to do. Here he's collaborated with old and new buds alike, coming up with this programmatically fun italo punkfunk chihouse post9/11 distillation of every remotely trendy genre coolly revisited in the last five years. Divatox, this is your worst nightmare. Copies of copies of copies, whatever some of these songs are actually likable. Kaos and dudes know each sound's sweet spot, picking, cutting, and pasting only the most timetested licks for nine flawless testtube babies. These songs look human, but they will never know their parents especially something like Gattacampy opener \"Lessons In Love\", which is all breathy electro vox and understated italo swells and lines like \"Lessons in love/ Where does it go from here?\" Better still is \"Now And Forever\" jangly chromatic rhythm postpunkin, octave bass slaps, cowbell, falsetto chorus, a pisspoor guitar solo, timbales, and wait for it cowbell. Written out, the album sounds bloated. But most tracks on Hello Stranger take more than seven minutes to unravel, lending this LP a DJ set vibe. First come the drinkon tracks, then the hard rockers, then Snax to the max, then the early morning toodrunktocarewhattheDJplays tracks (these tracks on Hello Stranger are kinda boring), then the DJ runs out of stuff to play and combs for his least shitty Bsides (these tracks on Hello Stranger sorta suck), then, finally, a \"last song\" track, which, in LCDspeak, erases the whole album so we can spin it again. That track on Hello Stranger sounds erasey. Yup. For the record: Captain Snax got his duefork a few weeks ago here. Random and overly reductive: I find the similarities among the Out Hud, LCD, and Kaos albums same number of tracks (cutting Out Hud's 28second intro), \"last songs,\" openly referential and genrebased, none of them as dancey as people expected them to be somewhat amusing. Insightful and more important than anything I've said so far: Midway through 80s Dtrain groove \"Juices\" is a pretty terrible impression of Louis Armstrong, but to its credit, it's also the first KirstieAlleyimpersonatingLouisArmstrong impression in recorded history. "}