{"label":" Wrasse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4544/homepage_large.c053dfcc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Femi Kuti","title":"The Best of Femi Kuti","text":" Being born of greatness has its perks, I'm sure, but it seems it's mostly a burden. How does Jakob Dylan even get up in the morning knowing he's doomed to be judged against his father every time he writes a song or cuts a record? There are hundreds of children of musical giants roaming around the industry these days, working with varying degrees of success to carve out their own names separate from their parents Zak Starkey, the Lennon halfbrothers, Moreno Veloso, Eric Mingus, and the various offspring of Charlie Haden, to name just a few. Femi Kuti is in this same position, perhaps dealing with an even more insurmountable legacy. As far as African music goes, his father Fela wasn't just Bob Dylan; to continue an imperfect analogy, he was also Bob Marley and John Coltrane, and that doesn't even take into account his political impact. Femi of course is acutely aware of his father's towering legacy, and seems content to extend it, realizing that trying to equal it is impossible, regardless of genes. Femi had something of a head start, playing sax in his father's Egypt 80 bands for close to two decades, assuming leadership of it during his father's various politically motivated imprisonments. Though he had performed his own right for years, he only released his first solo album, Shoki Shoki, in 1998, a year after Fela's death from AIDS, in effect picking up the torch his father finally had to let fall. In the time since then he's recorded another album, contributed to records by Common (Like Water for Chocolate) and Rachid Taha (Made in Medina), opened up the Afrika Shrine, a successor to his father's iconic Lagos nightclub, and founded an organization aimed at galvanizing and educating workingclass Africans, all of this between multiple world tours. So to say he's a busy, conscientious guy is something of an understatement. He may be the son of a legend, but Femi Kuti has paid his dues to arrive where he is, and now Wrasse Records has released this compilation of material drawn from his two studio albums as an introduction. Given that it's a 70minute disc drawing from only two albums, you can imagine that it includes the bulk of both records and it does. Being familiar with both records, I really can't think of any of the usual woundedcritic objections to the track selection a better introduction to Femi's modern take on Afrobeat isn't in the offing. While it's true that Femi basically plays modern Afrobeat, his approach differs quite a lot from his father's. Femi's songs tend to be much shorter, for one thing, with the focus more heavily on the dance elements of the music than the jazz elements. Femi's lyrics deal primarily with the presenttense problems of African societies, with a special emphasis on corruption, but unlike his father, he stays his tongue against ordinary Africans adopting Western ideals and specific entities like the Nigerian army. In other words, it's not as potent as Fela, but it's a fair bit more accessible, and anyone just looking for a nasty, horndrenched groove to flip out to will find it here as well. The five songs that open the disc hail from Shoki Shoki, and the sound is bright and right up in your face. The groove of \"Truth Don Die\" is insane, and one of Femi's best horn themes stabs out over the top of it with slashing ferocity, while \"What Will Tomorrow Bring?\" slides by on a slower rhythm and allows Femi's vocal more room to show his range. \"Beng Beng Beng\" was a huge panAfrican hit, and it's impossible not to see why: It's catchy as all getout, and Femi's slippery vocal is one of his few to focus more on personal relationships (specifically, getting it on) than political realities. The remaining tracks cover 2001's Fight to Win, with cameos from Mos Def and Common highlighting the far more politically charged and biting content of the songs. The arrangements are still hard and wickedly funky, but the band plays more loosely and explores more varied territory (to hear them really get into it, check out Live at the Shrine). \"'97\" directly addresses Fela's funeral and the death of Femi's sister Sola, with the band pulling back for a haunting breakdown where Femi calls out the poor medical care his sister received. \"Stop AIDS\" follows up on the theme with an impassioned plea for more attention to the disease that's eating Africa alive. All told, it seems that Femi Kuti is doing fine working in his father's wake, carving out his own sound and finding his political footing in a changed Africa that still bears too many echoes of its past. His father's shadow will always remain that's just the reality of it but Femi is a worthy successor to that legacy. "}