{"label":" Tell-All Records","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4545/homepage_large.82e063e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"The Kallikak Family","title":"May 23rd 2007","text":" The Kallikak Family derives its name from a centuryold psychology text called The Kallikak Family: A Study in FeebleMindedness by Henry H. Goddard. The book also provided the backbone for the group's debut LP, The Vineland Social Maturity Scale, which combined subtle pop melodies, organic folk, and bits of electronic noise. For their newest release, Kallikak brainchild Andrew Peterson has moved even further away from traditional structure, employing layers of field recordings, ambient noise, and nonverbal vocals to create an outstanding cut/paste ambient collage that is propelled by a continuous onslaught of fresh ideas, wistful beauty, and haunting arrangements.May 23rd 2007 is also a sort of concept album, telling the story of a timeobsessed man and the date on which he is expected to die, both of which are identified as May 23rd 2007. Much of that storyline is beside the point, though, since it isn't indicated anywhere in the album's beautiful packaging or, for that matter, in the music itself. There are no lyrics to tell a story, only sliced bits of vocal noises and the occasional ooh and ahh. Instead, Peterson constructs textures of sound based primarily on ambient noise. Unlike most album that are tagged \"ambient,\" May 23rd 2007 constantly shifts and morphs between engaging sounds and styles, drifting from drones to c'n'p edits to pastoral folk. At once comforting and alien, the record blends pop sensibilities and snatches of delicate, offkilter melody with freeflowing experimentation and avantgarde leanings. Several tracks incorporate breakbeatstyle electronic drums (most notably the title track and \"Portland, Oregon part 4\"), and two songs are delivered via acoustic guitar (the appropriately titled \"Guitar 1\" and \"Guitar 2\"), but for the most part May 23rd 2007 is an amalgam of tones, sampled snippets, and tape manipulation. Given this description, there are many artists who come to mind (the Books, the WindUp Bird, even Philip Glass), but to confuse similarity of style with similarity of ideas is to sell all of those artists short. The Kallikak Family succeeds by creating a beautiful, flowing piece of music that is at once engaging and understated. At times it can be heartwrenchingly sad, yet the uplifting are both impassioned and beautiful. With 17 tracks, each averaging about two minutes in length, Peterson gets the most out of his ideas, building a record that blends seamlessly yet shifts shapes both over the course of the LP and within each track. As a result, the true magnitude of May 23rd 2007 seeps out slowly, divulging more of its secrets with each listen. "}