{"label":" Table of the Elements","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4547/homepage_large.b6835dcb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Jonathan Kane","title":"February","text":" As cofounder of Swans and a volcanic drummer behind such notables as Rhys Chatham and La Monte Young, Jonathan Kane has provided the rhythmic foundation for several classic Downtown NYC landmarks. Perhaps it's this pedigree that allows Kane to deliver his solo debut February with such high decibel selfassurance. His music's intrinsic swagger is crucial to the album's success, for here Kane has chosen to work almost exclusively within the outwardly stagnant vocabulary of the blues. Though he utilizes some of the most familiar and overworked progressions of the past several decades, on these five pieces he sidesteps cliché by marshaling his minimalist riffs to their tranceinducing limits, and deftly sparks a synaptic link between Neu!style repetition and the hypnotic electric blues of Junior Kimbrough. With the exception of some guitar contributions from Igor Cubrilovic, February is a true solo work, as Kane handles the rest of the guitar, bass, and drum duties himself. On these five instrumental pieces he's stripped away all of his music's inessentials, excising overwrought vocals or flashy solos to instead pare these bluesbased excursions down to a streamlined, locomotive core. Kicking immediately into an unapologetic foursquare blues riff, the 12minute opener \"Curl\" initially does little to impress, Kane biding his time as he patiently sweeps again and again through each dusty corner. As the track progresses, however, the riff begins to build a tenacious momentum through a series of almost imperceptable directional shifts, and soon the massed overtones of the guitars course against Kane's powerhouse drumming to assemble into a singularly captivating propulsive drone. Likewise, the set's version of the traditional \"Motherless Child\" elongates the old spiritual's structure nearly beyond the point of recognition, with each melodic detail considered in isolation beneath distant ascending distortion and the rolling boulders of Kane's unyielding rhythms. Spacious tracks like \"Pops\" and \"Sis\" incorporate subtle traces of parched earth Americana to somewhat less invigorating effect, although Kane supplies each with a certain sawtooth grit and a coldblooded rattlesnake resolve. But he saves his most effective transmutation for last with his mammoth setclosing take on Rhys Chatham's epic \"Guitar Trio\". Whereas the original was a cascading, opentuned electrical current, Kane's bluesrefracted interpretation concentrates its substantial energies onto the piece's imposing rhythmic lumber. Over the course of the track's 12minute length, Kane adds and removes sonic elements with the singleminded endurance of wide, muddy river carving itself a canyon, and with the unwavering confidence of an alreadyveteran solo performer secure in his vision. "}