{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4554/homepage_large.669d3d18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Klimek","title":"Music to Fall Asleep","text":" Kompakt's past four Pop Ambient compilations have featured at least one track by Sebastian Meissner's Klimek project. Meissner's focus with Klimek is processed guitar that retains the timbre of the instrument; he bends, stretches, flanges, and repeats strummed chords that conjure melancholy, windblown emptiness. When first heard, these tracks come over like the soundtrack to Paris, Texas had Ry Cooder grown up playing computer. Positioned among drifting, vaporous clouds of synth found on Pop Ambient records, the Klimek tracks are welcome doses of earthiness. His disappointing 2005 fulllength debut Milk & Honey, however, demonstrated that the Klimek project didn't have enough ideas to sustain an album. Just more than a year later and with nothing new added to the formula Kompakt has released another Klimek fulllength. Much of Music to Fall Asleep is virtually indistinguishable from Milk & Honey, and even that record varied little from track to track. The biggest problem is that the Klimek sound is so specific plucked or strummed guitar that echoes rapidly into the distance, so that the overtones accrete that there is almost nowhere for it to go. Each piece possesses a certain beauty, and Klimek is an original approach to guitar processed with electronics; but after the first few twitches in each track, you've essentially heard the whole thing. The few moments that transcend the formula come when Meissner lets the tones linger so long they bind together into some striking drone. You can just barely make out the steel guitar string clusters that form the basis of \"Kingdoms Here We Come\", but heard en masse, the piece is foreboding in the extreme, with a carefully placed pulse of bass to drive it forward. \"Catalyst\" sounds inspired by early tape music, with strings warped to sound like the chirping mechanical birds of early electronics. Meissner is a talented guy whose work hasn't always received the notice he deserves. As Random_Inc and working with Ekkehard Ehlers as Autopoieses, his music his thoughtful, challenging, and unpredictable. Klimek, on the other hand, is nice enough as far as it goes, but the parameters are far too narrow. A few moments aside, Music to Fall Asleep is limited to quintessential Klimek tracks. If this sound scratches a very precise itch for you, one that never really goes away, who knows, maybe you'll love it. For the rest of us, there's always the next Pop Ambient.   "}