{"label":" Mush","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4563/homepage_large.f7bb6268.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Labtekwon","title":"Song of the Sovereign","text":" Song of the Sovereign is a retrospective covering the first fifteen years of Labtekwon's career. \"Labtekwhat?\" Yeah, he's definitely gone unnoticed in all but indie hiphop circles, and he lets you know it more than once on these songs. But he's not just another MC whining about his holy struggle in the underground. His delivery's plainclothes at first, a sort of brown paper bag for all the identities kept inside amongst others, guru, prophet, griot, lover, philosopher and educator if you believe his boasts. His diversity means you can't pin him down too easily, though that may be one factor in his lack of fame. Of course, you might count \"the underground\" as just another crutch for those who lack skills, an excuse dressed up as treasurefilled crates. Search for a second and you'll find those telltale glints of gold: you can always identify the underground in its opposition to the mainstream. \"Culture\" weaves together positive and negative images of AfricanAmericana, from bball and the mothers of mankind to prison and \"fornication on the frequent, regardless of consequence.\" It's a solid cut, with an upbeat bass groove and pianoroll plinks, and Labtek flows playfully for the most part (\"If you try to step you catch a Labteknical foul\"). But there's a hint of elderstatesmenofrapstyle preaching, talking about living like savages and asking \"fifteen years from now, we still going to be doing the same rhyme flows from '86?\" I don't know, Lab, you wrote this in '94 when you gonna stop with the Native Tongues licks from the early 90s? That's the main problem across this retrospective; Labtekwon's beats are too simple. Most tracks are built from hiphop's barest bones, just a looped beat and a sample. \"Speak on It\" is from 1996's Da Helpless Won, but the backing music sounds like a mixtape refugee from the early days of rap. There's this canned horn vamp that seriously hits on every single beat. It's unlistenable, too bad because lyrically Lab's on an African renaissance tip that would make Marcus Garvey proud. \"I almost cried when I realized black tribes sold out to the merchant ships/ Black girls becomes guinea pigs for Norplant/ I'm tired of all of this, I begin the war chant.\" He spits, \"Ya god damn right I got a chip on my shoulder,\" but all I can think about is those horn bleats beating down on mine. Then there's seven uninspired minutes of \"Perversion,\" which drips syrupysmooth inflections over a funkadelic bassline. No, baby, you ain't Dr. Funkenstein. Take off those starshaped shades and come on down from the Mothership. So it comes down to the lyrics, and most of the time that's enough. The man is intelligent and articulate, and though he rarely raises above spokenword volume, he cuts off on the rhythm, then fires back, bobs and weaves whenever necessary and doesn't shy from twisted perspectives. \"The Last Emcee,\" from the 2000 album of the same name, sketches out a picture in the third person, but you know who it refers to. The stage is set in Baltimore, Labtekwon's hometown. The plot: an MC's rise to fame. Despite its lyrical conceits the song succeeds, pivoting on spacy synthwork and the discovery that the underground's just as filled with snakes as the mainstream. 1997's BaltiMoorish Science offers up \"Perspective,\" whose turntablist scratches don't distract from the cutting quality of the imagery: \"Embryo grows, rise out of the water/ Fluid pours from the comatose form between the thighs of a daughter/ Birth canal hurts now/ No money for Lamaze classes.\" There's a nice minimalism at work in the tracks at the middle of Song of the Sovereign. Most date to the last few years, and share a jazzy Native Tongues flavor even if the mood isn't always light. In an interview Labtekwon said that first and foremost he's always been a battle MC. I don't hear that, and not just because there's too few guests on this sampler. Labtek sounds most at home when he's on a mission, as on \"Darkside of the Sun\" from 1998's Nile Child. On top of crackling vinyl and Midnight Marauder keyboards he narrates about sun tribes and pharaoh phonetics: \"Proverbial Frankenstein's monster/ From ancient times comes the conqueror/ Odyssey'in to my epic.\" On \"King of Kings,\" also from Nile Child, Labtek assumes an aggressive, raspy flow and the mantle of warrior king, dropping the gelatin/skin/skeleton rhyme before all his followers. In his spare time Labtekwon tutors kids, and his storytelling skills come clear as his best gift. His verses are studious, but most of the time not academic. Overall he's guilty of overconfidence, and singular vision is both his blessing and downfall. He's got charm, from his Sun Rastyle \"Iwasn'tbornhere\" personal mythology to a Nation of Gods and Earthsinfluenced promotion of his community. But it's hard to deny that Lab's beats are boring. They're just too damn plain and retro. Listen to each track over and over and you might start to love them, but trying to get excited about them is like raising morale in the terminal ward. I'm guessing that maybe an actual album might be a better starter. Before Mush put together this retrospective, Labtek said a good introduction would be Da Dawn, Volume 5 in his extensive selfreleased Labteknology series. Anyways, check something because he's got his own unique science and it's worth it to watch it drop. "}