{"label":" Melektronikk","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/458/homepage_large.04e8e080.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Alog","title":"Catch That Totem! (1998-2005)","text":"  You'd expect two guys as in love with sound as Norway's Espen Sommer Eide and DagAre Haugan to have a lot of tapes lying around. For this late 2005 release, the two men of Alog were asked by the Oslobased Melektronikk to assemble the best of their odds and ends. The result is this 13track collection, which, though not exactly new, have been heard by almost nobody. Included are a couple of previously released remixes and scattered bits from smallrun EPs and singles, but they're probably new to you unless you're reading this from Tromsø. That a skim of the archive can produce such an interesting record says a lot about the value of the Alog project. It's all over the place, and it shouldn't hang together, and yet it does. Alog called their terrific 2005 album Miniatures, but the title would have been more apt for this release. Ten of these selections are under five minutes; such restraint is a rarity in the world of abstract electronics, but it works wonders when dealing with this level of variety. Each track is a small world unto its own, with a unique palette and structure. Alog get in, lay out the rules, make their statement, and get out, wasting not a note and leaving you wanting more. The highlights rank with their best work, and, in one case, with anything I've heard in a long while. The treasure for me is \"Song Sung Inwardly\", a highly abstracted reconstruction of material sampled from Italian electropop group Slow Motion. It's gloriously accessible pop/noise, oddly songlike, with alternating beams of fuzzy drone that suggest a chord progression. It takes a shoegazey turn when high, harmonizing voices (or brilliant mechanical facsimile thereof) waft in, like a couple of Wilson brothers trapped in the guts of the machine and trying to sing their way out. At only 3:30, I've no choice but to repeat it endlessly.  But blissedout drone is only part of the story here. If there's a consistent thread, it's Alog's playfulness, their light touch and wry humor that can occasionally veer toward the twee. \"Just Recording\" begins with sleigh bells and prayer bowls, but the cloud of incense is pushed out with a weird chorus of clipped, percussive vocalizations from a mixture of kids and adults (it was apparently recorded at a children's school using the facilities instruments on hand). \"Something Like Islands of Memory\" sounds like something from a Tomlab release, with its dreamy backward guitar mixed with a woman's laughter garbled in a faulty tape machine. \"Hej, Vart Blev Det Av Dat'en, Kim?\" (\"Hi, where did the DATtape go, Kim?\") lays the answering machine voice of Norwegian producer Kim Hirothøy atop a recording of his entire CD being played on fastforward, so that the 50minute album is heard in four. Screwing around, you say? Maybe, but always with a sense of purpose, and with ears wide open.  Obviously, given its castaways and cutouts nature, Catch That Totem! isn't all brilliant, but even the lesser tracks hold my interest. I'd finish by saying that the inspiring sonic imagination of Alog deserves a much bigger audience, but a couple weeks ago they picked up a Spellemann Award Miniatures. Their website explains that a Spellemann is a \"Norwegian Grammy.\" Now that's my kind of country.     "}