{"label":" Emperor Norton","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4578/homepage_large.d653a696.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Ladytron","title":"Softcore Jukebox","text":" Psst, hey buddy, over here: wanna buy a playlist? I got all the shit you need right here, all the fresh tracks you need to know about to impress that record store chick with the Chanhair and Loebglasses. I got all the finest mixes of all the latest genres: carport, kaleidocore, lapelgaze hell, if you want, I'll give you the entire contents of my iPodknockoff on shuffle: that'll last you six days or so. What, you say a playlist isn't worth any money? You say who the hell am I that you would want to squander a hardearned paycheck percentage on a mix disc of my making? Well, then, explain to me why you just cashed in a peach twenty on Ladytron's Softcore Jukebox! Sure, they may be big shots in the highly dubious world of \"electropop,\" what with their fancy blinkinglight keyboards and Roxy Music tribute cover art. But in the era of the filesharing speakeasy, when the distance between recommendation and listening is covered as fast as your DSL runs, pausebetweentracks compilations of this sort don't fulfill the role they used to. Okay, okay, Softcore Jukebox is such an excellent grabbag I can cut it some slack. Turns out when Ladytron slice themselves open for some gross anatomy, their keyboardspangle sound disassociates into equal parts critic'spet rock, whitelabel 12's, and electrotrash. Slammed together, it's an hourtwenty set of danceability without the usual preconceptions about what's \"acceptable\" dance music. It's just a shame they couldn't have at least downloaded that crossfader plugin for Winamp. Starting out with the ambassadorial move of slotting My Bloody Valentine, Wire, and The Fall within the first five tracks, Ladytron quickly get to the core of why they're the one group under the electroclash banner that gets spun on indierock dance night. A new version of their own \"Blue Jeans\" that almost seems to accommodate a sample of \"I Wanna Be Your Dog\" (Sonic Youth's version, at least) and space allotted to an ancient song from dancepunk procrastinators !!! are yet more beat connections to the armscrossed crowd. Though I'm not sure how many headnod loyalists are willing to embrace a comp that connects the dots between Loveless and Fannypack, I salute Ladytron for the attempt. \"Hey Mami\" is the best of the tracks that reflect Ladytron's coy, flirtatious side, unabashed fun alongside ooodirtyme! crudebeat like Xtina's \"What's a Girl to Do\" or, um, Fat Truckers' \"Teenage Daughter\". More classical tropes of dance music are highlighted by the updated disco of Dondolo's \"Peng\" and MIDI divaanthem \"You Got the Love\", while Snap Ant's \"Saviour Piece\" cuts and dices acoustic guitar like an audition to produce for Madonna. All these disparate elements are most emphatically waddedup in Ladytron's sole completelynew contribution to the disc, a wonderfully twisted reworking of Tweet's \"Oops Oh My\" built on \"National Anthem\" fuzzbass and flanging keyboard assaults. No fronting on the original, but Ladytron's darker take drops a Roofie into the single's keg cup, morphing the tune from sweptaway swoon into daterape you can dance to (and feel appropriately filthy about afterwards). It's a cover with something to say, miles away from the usual indiebandcoveringradiohit ironyjerkoff. A segue from \"Oops Oh My\" to the Big Brother & The Holding Company clone Shocking Blue to Beach Boysambient Pop Levi to echoboxcowboy Lee Hazlewood's \"Some Velvet Morning\" closes out Softcore Jukebox with a bang yet they're not really segues at all. And that's the frustrating thing: with the continued, mystifying dearth of DJ mixes incorporating rockist leanings (does nobody realize the appeal of 2 Many DJ's was less mashup gimmickry and more the excitement of hearing rock placed back into a dance context?), Ladytron comes a couple dozen easy beatmatched transitions away from filling a gaping hole. In missing this opportunity, they've created a fantastic danceparty playlist, but one that could just as easily have been posted on their website as a guidemap through the Soulseek wilderness. "}