{"label":" Ryko","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4580/homepage_large.991e0af1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Ladytron","title":"Extended Play","text":" Eight tracks that's 35 minutes of Bsides and remixes. You can probably imagine how hard it is for a critic to either rave or rant about something like this. The Witching Hour, Ladytron's last fulllength, was their best yet: a great leap forward from stylish synthpop into something grander and more dramatic, something that commanded attention rather than just charming its way into it. But Extended Play is just odds and sods and loose ends more false starts and works in progress than prize rarities. For fans only? Obviously, and only the most dedicated fans at that. The real selling point for the package, in fact, is the bonus DVD, complete with videos and documentary footage. The music itself is inessential at best; at worst, it achieves this weird state of Too Much Information that somehow diminishes the actual album. One of the biggest developments on The Witching Hour, after all, was the way this synth act suddenly emerged with a beefy undertow, bringing out the drums and guitars and settling into grooves that were deep, dark, occasionally dirty, occasionally Germanic. Some of the Bsides here \"Citadel\", \"Nothing to Hide\" make that less impressive, feeling like practice jams, trial runs dedicated to exploring that sound. It was a lot more fun imagining they'd just suddenly woken up one day feeling steelyeyed. Worse is the alternate take on \"Destroy Everything You Touch\", a terrific single that's basically Ladytron's own \"Enjoy the Silence\". The take here is listed as the \"Catholic version,\" but for \"Catholic\" please read \"demo\" this is just a dirty roughedout take, a single drumbeat and the chord sequence pushed out on one synth with the vocals in place on top. Not in the delightfully minimal \"strippeddown\" sense, either just the sort of rough sketch best saved for anniversary editions or box sets. The remixes are equally lacking: Describing them would only ruin the few minutes of interest you could ever glean from hearing ordinary, serviceable Ladytron reconfigurations. Desperate iPod DJ dudes might get a little mileage out of onetime Smashing Pumpkin James Iha's take on \"Weekend\", which brings some pleasant guitar shimmer (and, seemingly, a Love Is All quote), but Brit producer Jagz Kooner can't bring anything to \"Sugar\", which is too romantically vulnerable for his kind of treatment. It's funny: You might think Ladytron remixes would be a good idea. I'm not so sure, though. Early on, this band was billed as having something to do with electro; these days, they get billed as having something to do with dancepop. And while both might be true, they've always been more about a certain emotional thrust the kind of persontoperson bedroom drama that once drew teenagers to the Cure or Morrissey. The Witching Hour got them there in the grandest, most professional style but their tracks are still as householdinsular as they are dancefloorfunctional; even the production has an icy, airy quality that holds everything else at arm's length. Just like old Depeche Mode, it's clubby music for distinctly unclubby dramaclub bedrooms who wants to hear someone else meddle with it? "}