{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4601/homepage_large.47206701.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kristin Sage Rockermann","artist":"Lambchop","title":"Nixon","text":" Lambchop's Nixon is the result of a collaboration between Lambchop members John Delworth, Deanna Vargona, Paul Niehaus, Allen Lowrey, Jonathan Marx, C. Scott Chase, Marc Trovillion, Kurt Wagner, Paul Burch Jr., Mark Nevers, Dennis Cronin, Alex McManus, and Matt Swanson, with nonLambchop members Tony Crow, Ken Coomer, Matt Bach, Paul Booker, the Nashville String Machine, and a choir. The list is so long I considered throwing my name in there to see if anyone noticed, but I don't really want to slip casually into \"the Lambchops\" (as I like to call them). Here's why: First off, I'd have to be really quiet. Even if my only involvement in the band was irresponsibly tossing my name into a list of band members, I'd probably be typing too loudly to be let into the club. Lambchop don't rock at all. Sometimes they embody the lilting tempo and achy narratives of a slow, Southern night. Other times, they explore the soulinspired fantasies of an obedient student at orchestra practice. They do, however, occasionally approximate swelling mushymovie music, with the help of the Nashville String Machine. Secondly, I'm sure I'm not cool enough to be on the inside of this joke. My family and I listened to Nixon on the car ride to my brother's graduation. My grandmother liked it, but it was \"too smooth\" for my parents to get through. Much like Bacharach, an influence in Wagner's writing on \"You Masculine You,\" Lambchop's smooth n' easy orchestral popmeetscountrymeetssoul sound sits best with grandmothers who like the style of the music but can't make out the lyrics, and with hipsters who \"get it.\" Lambchop is a fusion of styles that both transgresses formal genre boundaries and creates an unsettling disjuncture by pairing intheknow lyrics with the more conservative sounds and production styles of Nashville. That being said, Nixon serves as a reminder that expertly executed stylistic hybrids and ironic juxtapositions great though they may be don't replace memorable songwriting. Sure, it's a novel concept, but while some of us may still be patient enough to \"get it\" five albums into the band's career, Wagner's talent and unique vision should demand a more challenging album. For a project involving so many musicians, there's something stifled and almost claustrophobic about this album's overall sound. It's not unlike spending several hours with your family in a small box that moves at a consistent pace over farmland and rolling hills. Images of families and endless days are cataloged as the countryside maps itself through a car window, cleansed of the intellectual stimulation or emotional strain of staying in one of the many passing homes. Both the ironic distance built into their indieintellgensiameetsAppalachian lyrics, as well as the almost scientific blending of styles, feels like detached pastiche. You're listening through a car window. Did I mention that one of your family members sometimes sings in an annoying \"soulful\" falsetto after listening to one too many Earth, Wind and Fire records? In the plainest terms possible, Nixon is a record for grandmothers and hipsters. It's also turned out to be a record for yuppies who ask, \"Who was that pleasant group that opened for Yo La Tengo?\" when in pursuit of the perfect album to soundtrack their wineandcheese parties. Several of my friends who heard Nixon said, \"This isn't bad.\" But it isn't bad in the most damning way. The songs are decent, it's carefully arranged and well produced, and it's even innovative in ways. But while it's hard to imagine hating Lambchop, it's also hard to believe they could be anyone's favorite band. On Come On Pilgrim, Black Francis sings, \"I wanna be a singer like Lou Reed.\" While Kurt Wagner's voice at times recalls Lou Reed, no one will ever pen, \"I said I wanna a be a singer like Kurt Wagner/ 'I like Kurt Wagner,' she said sticking her tongue in my ear.\" That's because Wagner's songwriting is smart, wellcrafted and creates its own stylistic niche garnering critical acclaim, but simply fails to inspire or leave a permanent mark the way Lou Reed or Frank Black have. I'm perusing Nixon's liner notes in a failed attempt to find something smart to write regarding the \"Suggested Reading\" list of books on Richard Nixon, but the album's already fallen out of rotation. You got it my grandmother and I are listening to the Pixies. "}