{"label":" City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4602/homepage_large.f0fe09dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Lambchop","title":"Is a Woman EP","text":" The story is supposed to have gone: \"Lambchop followed the lushtoextravagant pomp of Nixon with the muted, cavernous saloonery of their sixth fulllength, Is a Woman, and the world was underwhelmed. Some even called the album Kurt Wagner's love letter to himself, since his swooning yet sawdusty vocals (and therefore his fractured verse) formed the album's fulcrum.\" What a dumb story. To anyone who dismissed Is A Woman, as I (and Pitchfork: see archives) initially did, I suggest a revisitation, keeping in mind that Lambchop is everevolving, and that the collective who brought you Nixon's sunroofy jams has every damn right to bring you the wintry cabin fever of Is a Woman. What Kurt giveth, he taketh away. Anyone familiar with the spokenword or ifGibbyHayneswasacarny tracks on I Hope You're Sitting Down, or the gentle overkill of How I Quit Smoking, or the cyclical despondent profanity of Hank and Thriller, or the soulcountry variety show of What Another Man Spills knows that half the fun of slapping down your American superdollars for 'Chop product is not knowing what new vein Wagner and company are going to mine/pollute: Cascading falsettos? Someone playing a lacquerthinner can with a wrench? Covers of Dump, East River Pipe or Curtis Mayfield? Lyrics about fighting Garth Brooks or fixating on a backyard sprinkler? Background singers so whitesounding they bring to mind afternoons with Granny polishing endtables to Perry Como? Besides, the Is a Woman album sports some gorgeous, laconic looniness. The fragile, accidental tone works best at weird hours, and the tyranny with which Wagner subdues his ensemble almost suggests that the accompanying instruments exist only in the imagination of the album's disintegrating piano man in fact, the album leads one to picture a guy in a tux hunched over a baby grand in some department store or touristy restaurant, fed up with spewing neglected renditions of \"It Could Happen to You\", so he wraps his cummerbund around his head and breathily boasts about how far he can flick a cigarette (\"Flick\") or sings confessions like \"I Can Hardly Spell My Name\". By the end of the set, the pants are off, the flask is out, and our hero is prostrate across the piano. Lambchop's elliptical songs can rewardingly be set to drum loops, and this EP will delight those who dig the bigbeat remixed tracks from Tools in the Dryer and elsewhere. The album version of \"Is a Woman\" kicks off the disc, and if you forgot it (who can blame you, this antianthem feels designed to slip through cracks), it's a downtrodden, jazzy tapeworm of a song that busts into subtly choral, bouncy reggae stridently completing the fulllength's comprehensive motif of intentional nonsequiturship. Schneider TM, probably the \"name\" overhauler here, deliver a frustrating take on the excellent, observationlisting \"New Cobweb Summer\". The vocals sound squeezed through some phaser, and a farty R&B; groove is propped underneath the airy original's stilts. Alpha and The Maxwell Implosion deliver the gold on each of their \"Is a Woman\" expansions. Alpha nods slightly to the mid90s when inattentive reviewers used to call Lambchop's big sound \"lounge\", referring to the \"spaceage\" retro stuff. But this loungification is legitimately forwardlooking, coating the song's spine with at least four tracks of trembling keys that often trail off like a labbred army of exospheric moths. The Maxwell Implosion mix stresses soft drums, organ hits, and islandstrummed guitars. If not for the one chorus during which it juxtaposes xylophone tones with a \"bubble\" percussion (think \"PopUp Videos\"), this thing would be a complete part of your balanced breakfast. Also included is an animated video: a leaf drifts down a snowy river, then begins to walk and dance, which leads inevitably to a leaf parade. Yep. The art's pretty and all, but the clip is skippable if you're the type who calculates your waking hours' opportunity costs in fiveminute increments. So the EP is mostly fanfare, but of the kind that could season a mean mix CDR. Lambchop's one of the few crews who could find a poetic use for the brands they check in these songs (Sony, Sherwin Williams), and that alone can help you abide in a world where certain periodicals run creepy spreads on how celebrities eat, complete with paparazzi shots of Enrique Iglesias burgersnarfing. Three spins of the Alpha and Maxwell Implosion remixes and masticationporn is wiped clean from the psyche. "}