{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/463/homepage_large.87971d9e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Antony and the Johnsons","title":"I Am a Bird Now","text":" The 1974 photo of Andy Warhol superstar Candy Darling on the cover of Antony and the Johnsons' second full length, I Am a Bird Now, is the perfect complement to the ghostly hymnals that flit and sigh behind its black and white shadows. A melancholy but arrestingly beautiful image, it depicts Darling on her deathbed; bright flowers float behind her upturned arm like a cluster of soft, pale moons radiating light onto the bleached sea of sheets in which she's drowning. Besides being a tight aesthetic move, the image also links Antony to the early fabulousness of downtown New York, reminding the informed viewer not only of Darling's tooearly death from leukemia, but the AIDSrelated passing of the photographer himself, Peter Hujar in 1987 (the same year Warhol died, following routine gall bladder surgery). Klaus Nomi was already buried by then, and the Downtown scene was getting too close to saying goodbye to Cookie Mueller, Keith Haring, David Wojnarowicz, and Antony's sometime doppelganger Leigh Bowery (the subject of Boy George's musical Taboo), among others all victims of the AIDS virus. This visual meditation on death and radical history smoothly conjures the family tree upon which pale, angelic Antony perches. The vocalist/pianist moved from California to NYC after seeing the documentary Mondo New York, lured by the 1980s cabaret scene it depicted. Quite fittingly, his first performance came with a musical troupe called Blacklips at the famed Downtown venue, the Pyramid. Jump now to 2003, when Antony opened for Lou Reed and sang the Velvet Underground classic \"Candy Says\" (yes, for Candy Darling) as an encore after most performances. Knowing all of this the very important history in that cover helps to understand the melancholy, sense of loss, and rapturous joy in these 10 tracks. But however aesthetically intriguing and complex that history may be, the ultimate draw is Antony's voice, and within the first two seconds of the album, it should be very clear to even the most unaware newbies that Antony has an amazing Nina Simone/Brian Ferry/Jimmy Scott vibrato, a multioctave siren that would sound painfully lovely no matter what he was saying. Lucky for us, he fills that promise with worthy syllables. The greatness of this downcast crooner is the melding of that otherworldly trill with a dark, powerful aesthetic. Looking past his sad eye makeup and kewpiedoll features are these mesmerizing songs about loving dead boys, plaintive letters from hermaphroditic children, the fear of dark lonesome purgatories, breast amputation, the fluidity of gender. The first words of \"Hope There's Someone\" and of the album \"Hope there's someone who'll take care of me/ When I die\" feel more lonesome than just about anything and then there's the rapturous promise of \"For Today I Am A Boy\"' that \"One day I'll grow up and be a beautiful woman/ One day I'll grow up and be a beautiful girl\". I Am a Bird Now's majesty didn't come easily: Antony's selftitled debut was released five years ago on David Tibet's Durtro label, but only now has he found the perfect mix between style and substance. More stripped down than earlier offerings most of the focus is on piano and voice, although violin, viola, cello, sax, and flute are also heard there's no missing Antony's thoughtful words. There are a number of guest vocal spots Devendra Banhart (gypsy incantations in the beginning of \"Spiralling\"), Boy George (\"You Are My Sister\"), Rufus Wainwright (\"What Can I Do?\"). All of these powerful singers are overshadowed by Antony's angelic chops, though Boy George ends up turning in a surprisingly moving performance. His duet with Antony explores private memory, brotherhood/sisterhood (regardless of gender), relationships, empowerment (\"I was so afraid of the night/ You seem to move to places/ That I feared\"), and wish fulfillment. (Really, grab the hankies.) For his part, longtime Antony fan/champion Lou Reed does a little spoken \"I was lying in my bed last night\" intro and some chunky guitar chords on the doowop horn swagger of standout \"Fistful of Love\", which works itself up to a frothy Otis Redding devotional to love's bruises and the comfort of a familiar fist: \"I accept and I collect the memories of your devotion on my body\". The mingling of friends is a treat but, heart in his hand, Antony can more than ably go it alone even though he spends so much of I Am A Bird Now fearing solitude and celebrating those rare perfect connections. Then again, in this carefully laid out record, the final track, \"Bird Gurl\", leads quite dramatically to fullfledged climax as our hero searches for and finds wings, finally taking a solo flight. Contrast this with the pathos of the opener's fear of falling asleep and that \"middle place\" between light/life and darkness/death. Of course, when the album begins again, so does the reality of perhaps having nobody to hold an aching dying head. But then, so does Antony's riveting trip towards his airborne epiphany. And on the cover, Candy's flowers remain in bloom.   "}