{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4614/homepage_large.24d396c8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Landing","title":"Passages Through","text":" In the past three years, Connecticut's Landing have released four rather different records on three labels. The band's debut Oceanless was filled with long, dreamy instrumentals that combined the Youngmeetsdreampop bend of Windy & Carl with streaks of heavier stoner psychedelia. The followup full length Seasons saw them settling uneasily into soft, delicate slowcore territory, mixing lots of acoustic guitars with strained harmonies, verses and choruses. This year's Fade In Fade Out EP was a mixture of the two styles, with a pronounced lean toward the drones of Oceanless. Landing is prolific as hell several members have combined with Adam Forkner to record two Surface of Eceon records in the last two years but they're restless, trying to figure out how to tie their ideas together. On Passages Through, Landing is slowly finding a way to integrate their wistful, openended guitarscapes with proper songs. They've kept all of the melody and most of the structure of Seasons, but the singing is more accomplished if it's a bit further down in the mix. Most important, during the best moments of Passages Through, Landing have given tracks the space to wander when they need to; the album feels open, and unforced. The word \"experiment\" implies a certain amount of forethought and control this record that is about letting go. \"Close Your Eyes, Slowly\" is Landing perfectly realized. The drummer lays out for the first three minutes and allows two guitars playing overlapping scales in a repeating minimalist style to braid a rope to the clouds so that Adrienne Snow's voice, mixed just right to add an ethereal glow, might ascend into the mist. Adrienne's husband Aaron also sings in Landing, but the timbre of Adrienne's voice is better suited to the busier guitar songs, bonding nicely with the circular, heavily reverbed patterns the band favors. Another example is the first bit of \"Breathing\", which begins as a drifting, shapeless mass, her voice floating between the guitars without tune until the track settles into a serene drone, modulated by tremelobar ripples (it confidently stretches past 14 minutes). As a \"song\" it's about 80% coda, and that makes perfect sense for this style of music. The nineminute opener \"Wings of Light\" also manages to combine hints of song with an appealing tangle of guitar drone. When constructing more disciplined pieces, Landing shows some signs of improvement. \"Hold Me Under\" shares the Low aspirations hinted at on Seasons, but comes closer to that high standard with tighter harmonies and a better melody. Still, the acoustic ballads remain Landing's sticking point. While the Adriennesung \"It is Shining\" is interesting enough in the way its wideeyed folkiness harks back to early 10,000 Maniacs (an 80s sound few would touch these days), \"Wrapped Up in Flight\" and \"Tell Myself\" are pretty on the surface, but ultimately dull. When Landing sounds too relaxed and effortless, their music just seems strangely hollow, the indie guitar band equivalent of a Thomas Kincaid painting. Fortunately, such moments are rare enough on Passages Through. "}