{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4617/homepage_large.bdaa4177.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Derek Miller","artist":"Landing","title":"Sphere","text":" If there's a harder genre to find distinction in than IDM/electronica, it's assuredly slowcore, with its foundation of stern concrete dirges and blackholed soundwaves. Bands like Low and Slowdive have to work that much harder to wedge distinguishable characteristics into their sound given that the genre's glacierpaced dynamics allow for much less melodic wiggle room. The destinations for a slowcore song are limited: Blissful transcendence and candlelit gloom can coincide for only so long before they dissolve into Requiem for a Dream, all hoppingrefrigerators and funereal paranoia. At least with garage rock or threechord teeniepunk, you give the people what they want: Melodic anthems to shout along with in the Zippolight. Slowcore's dank, dark niche is the sole place the music even finds voice, and there are only so many Rorschach reads in the void. Steadily, former BYU grads Aaron and Adrienne Snow, the married couple that forms the core of ethereal quartet Landing, have released four decent, if unspectacular, albums of waxy soundscapes that fit quite cozily in the genre. For better or worse, their fifth record (and second for K), Sphere, finds them treading the same tepid water. Subdued beats and lunar synth washes paint these 10 tracks shades of empty space. They ask only to subside into their meandering guitar lines and Jetsonstreaked atmospherics, leaving nary a trace of their passing. A quick look at the track titles, autumnal claims like \"Fluency of Colors\", \"Into Silence\" and \"Gravitational\" provide an apt summary of the album's desired effect. Still, these multitudinous names are misleading; more appropriate would have been a single epithet and 10 roman numerals, as the uniformity here leads to its generally anemic quality. Most of the tracks seem content to wallpaper your Sunday mornings, as you sift through the smoky splitends of your Saturday night and free your thoughts for precoffee tasklessness. Little is required of you, and even the subtle tensions offered by Landing have the feel of microwave warmth: crisp, mechanical and perfect for autodefrosting. In the few places where the listener is jarred out of his relative ambivalence, the music gurgles up beyond its vague, ritualistic glow to form gauzy imprints on the surroundings. The aforementioned \"Fluency of Colors\" opens with toothpicked drumbeats and chiming electric guitars, deftly mounting into an epic leadoff. As it sputters out into an acousticguitar stroll, the song captures the wandering excitement of a city recovering from blackout and streaming into the streets to revel in the rare comfort of dark hours. Sadly, the album fails to live up to its insistent desires. Along similar lines, on \"Filament\", Adrienne Snow's warm voice subtly collides with its stumbledrunk drums and aspirined synths to provide rarified atmosphere from a work that seeks just that. As Snow's Sirendrift distills itself into the song's vibrating guitars, it's one of the few moments where Landing seems to fully understand that there must be some return from escape, that something must tug you back from spaceless jamming to ground you against the psychic drone. By the end, it's clear that Sphere is ably managed if not particularly accomplished. As leaves curl yellow and the air sours grey, fall will cool into a time for the year's wistful contemplation. Landing is willing to streak this period with the appropriate violet hues and entombed daylight if you give them a chance. But take them up on their offer, and you may quickly understand the solemnity of summer's failed growth. "}