{"label":" Bloodshot","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4624/homepage_large.dc7ccbe0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Jon Langford / The Sadies","title":"Mayors of the Moon","text":" From the first song you know you're in good hands. Jon Langford's voice, coarse and charming, opens \"Drugstore\". The Sadies' clean acoustic guitars are all country, but Langford's Welsh accent and that hook in the melody hint at a pub ballad. Langford's narrative is full of fleeting images both warm and threatening from the date he's dragging onto the dancefloor, to some guy with a gun who's just walked in, to the sharp air and hints of terror outside. It's a night out at a bar with a seat inside Langford's head, and The Sadies fit the words like a dress shirt that cost a week's pay and only comes out Saturday night.The bandname, Langford and \"His\" Sadies, is, of course, a friendly joke: The Sadies are their own outfit, with several records to their name that hover around country/western but touch on everything from psychrock to surf. They've also backed many vocal talents, from 50s R&B cult singer Andre Williams to everyone's favorite redheaded chanteuse, Neko Case. Guitarist Dallas Good has even played with members of Shadowy Men on a Shadowy Planet, Toronto's finest surf band. As a support band, The Sadies know how to toe the line, and with Langford they forgo any genrebending or simple fooling around that might distract us.So most of the music treads familiar ground, played well and only a little rowdy. The Sadies stomp down \"Up to My Neck in This\", on the lefty tirade \"American Pageant\" their guitars are brash and vicious. Occasional member Critter shows up on vibes and percussion, putting extra resonance on ballads like \"Little Vampires\", while guest Bob Egan's pedal steel especially gorgeous on \"Looking Good for Radio\" and \"Are You an Entertainer?\" adds a soar and shimmer that tugs the heartstrings. The only thing that lets them down are the songs.These guys have plenty to say, but as the album plays, it becomes less captivating and more bythenumbers. Putting The Mekons and Waco Brothers singer Jon Langford in front of Toronto's rising altcountry stars looks great on paper and typical for a disc from Bloodshot Records, the atmosphere's cozy and the playing's impeccable. Yet there are few sparks, and nothing is really exceptional. Langford and the band wrote allnew material, but it actually sounds less personal than if they'd stuck to good covers. Even their most exotic song, \"Shipwreck\", feels like just another dreamy lostatsea ballad. (Though Sally Timms' guest vocals sure are pretty.)The most careeraverage contribution comes from Langford. There's no doubting his cred in either rock or altcountry, after twentyfive years of \"anything goes\" anarchorock with The Mekons and his work in cowpunk band The Waco Brothers. And while much has been made of whether his Welsh accent belongs in North American country music, he proves yet again that his roughtimbred working man's rasp couldn't be more suited to belting out songs about work, despair, and opposition to the Bush administration.Langford gets angry, though here he only bares his teeth fleetingly, spitting out the horrific imagery of \"American Pageant\". He also gets sad, though he never hits a true gutbucket wallow; \"Little Vampires\" doesn't wrench the heart, nor does \"Looking Good for Radio\" feel like a deep admission of flaws. (The \"'Change must come'/ Can you break this twenty?\" line is just plain hammy.) More than anything, Langford comes off as a wayward if loveable uncle; his words are good but rarely cutting, and by the closing number \"Are You an Entertainer?\", a song about the grinds of the touring life the album itself has ground to a halt.Mayors of the Moon is in no way a bad record every performance is solid and the recording sparkles but it doesn't quite meet its potential. The challenge of this collaboration seems to have driven everyone involved to make safe decisions instead of taking risks or letting in a little sloppiness, and that's the last thing you'd expect from these guys.  "}