{"label":" Bridge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4630/homepage_large.929ecd50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Paul Lansky","title":"Alphabet Book","text":" A,B,C,D,E,F. Tink tink, gleeeeeee. G,H,I, jjj, K. Bink bink tick tick tick, gleeeeeeeeee. Ah, yes, alphabet fun. How long has it been since you really had fun with the alphabet? Probably several years. There are so many letters to work with, yet the overfamiliarity can kill even the best round of Scrabble. But go back even further, to the sounds of the letters themselves. How long has it been since you actually gave any thought to the sound of 'S' or 'L'? What about numbers? 3,4,5,6,7. 3. 3! Hmm. Who has time for that? These modest building blocks have long since been stored in archival areas of my mind; they aren't supposed to be interesting. American computer music pioneer Paul Lansky believes otherwise. Born in 1944, and receiving a PhD from Princeton (where he has taught since the 1970s), Lansky was one of the first proponents of both computerbased music and electronic alteration of existing sounds, and sometimes whole works. In many ways, his work is a precursor to that of modern electroheads Fennesz, Otomo Yoshihide and Jan Jelinek, and his 1973 piece Mild und Leise was mined for samples by Radiohead, giving Kid A's \"Idioteque\" its unique synthwhir. But Lansky went further than most electronic composers by actually inventing his own musical programming language (Linear Prediction Coding), which he has made available for free via the Internet. Similar to Yoshihide and Fennesz, one of Lansky's primary goals has been to approach \"familiar things from new vantage points, using a novel perch to gain a fresh perspective on things we may have come to take for granted.\" Alphabet Book tackles those early building blocks, letters and numbers, and somehow sheds a heck of a lot of light on objects we take for granted in the extreme. It's not that Lansky redefines anything here, but the bright, mystical tone clusters and narration by Hannah MacKay (Lansky's wife and longtime collaborator) cast the characters as part of an alien libretto to an ambient opera. It isn't really minimalism more like muted micropolyphony. That is, it appears Lansky has compensated for the potentially hyperbasic nature of the material with hundreds of minute details and configurations of a small group of objects. It's watching \"Sesame Street\" with OCD and a penchant for Tangerine Dream. The most alluring songs are not coincidentally the most superficially simple. The opener, \"ABC\", is a straightforward recitation of the alphabet by MacKay over tictac percussion (in places, Lansky seems to flirt with microhouse) and some seriously ominous/heavenly synthesizer clouds. As the piece gradually unfolds and the chordal backdrop ebbs, flows and threatens to overtake the entire arrangement, MacKay's enunciation becomes drawn out and doubletracked. The percussion tails the misty synth, and the trail of reverb after the letters near the track's end further obscures the list. Similarly, \"Alphanumeric Song\" recites both the alphabet and a numerical countdown of sorts simultaneously over oddly comforting bell glissandos and drones, effectively synthesizing the retrofuturistic, infosaturated music 60s scifi obsessives thought we were supposed to be listening to now. Everything is calm, smart and amiably removed from any reality I know.Alphabet Book also comes with three Flash animations by Grady Klein to accompany Lansky's music that are gifts from the outofbodyexperience gods just try keeping your pupils in line watching the clip for \"ABC\" and its postgothic, disappearing calligraphy. Sure, spending an evening with L,M,N,O,P isn't everyone's idea of a party, but that's probably not the point, anyway. This isn't flat academia, and it certainly isn't elitist condescension towards everyday phenomena Lansky's music goes for a much subtler infiltration of your senses than Kindergarten ever did. "}