{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4633/homepage_large.acecc36f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liam Singer","artist":"Lanterna","title":"Highways","text":" Over the past year, I've come to know a rare and elusive breed of music fan. This breed is in their late 20s to early 30s, pale, tall and fragile, notably antiindierocker, and stands quietly askew to their soulpatched, aging \"alternative\" siblings. Their taste is built quite specifically upon the dreamrock lineage of the shoegazers and the gothtinged ambient pop stemming from the Cocteau Twins. These figures have slowly figures infiltrated my musical knowledge a Jamie who burned me a copy of Slowdive's beautiful, impossibletofind Pygmalion; a Steve who introduced me to the output of Azure Ray; a kindly record store employee who repeatedly insisted I listen to This Mortal Coil. Firm believers in the most beautiful, emotional, human sounds to come out of the late 80s and early 90s. Having seen Lanterna's Henry Frayne play live a few months ago, I can comfortably conclude that he fits the physical and musical profile of these listeners. A towering, softspoken man who began playing unannounced as he stared at the pedals by his feet, his delayed guitar soon filled the room with slow melodies set to the dramatic beats emanating from his laptop (the modern equivalent of shoegazing being, of course, screenstaring). As Lanterna, Frayne has been producing a consistent strain of guitarbased instrumental music for several years now one that largely ignores any apparent influence from the past 10 years. On new album Highways, he replaces the programmed beats of his past releases with live drummer Eric Gebow and \"tape effects\" from Mike Brosco, altering his increasingly honed sound. A new listener might be tricked by opener \"Clear Blue\" into thinking Highways a Windy & Carlderived textural work, until \"Brightness\" bursts in with the cleanreverbed chords of an Enoproduced U2 song. Lanterna is usually spoken of in terms of ambient; in fact, I found him filed under \"new age\" at my local record store, though the closest Highways comes to that territory is with a few Spanishsounding guitar licks in the beautiful \"Adriatic\". The live drums and ambient pop guitar tone actually bring Highways closest to instrumental, distortionfree dreamrock. The songs maintain standard arrangements and known forms, confident in their chordal simplicity. It's really a logical extension of the genre a lot of shoegazers hated writing lyrics anyway, and despite all their talk about keeping vocals low in the mix to render them \"another instrument,\" many were probably more afraid of the commercial implications of making purely instrumental music. Not so for Lanterna, who lets his delayed arpeggios speak for themselves. The term \"cinematic\" is often applied to vocalfree work in describing the spaciousness inherent where no human voice or lyrics exist to grab focus or give specific meaning to the sound. Here, however, \"cinematic\" is applicable to Lanterna's sense of the dramatic as well. The bent, western guitar melodies of \"Canyons\" or \"Brooklyn\" convey sweeping visual impressions. Frayne is not after the dark emotional ambiguity of beatless drones, and his generally majorkey melodies avoid the sinister, conveying a subdued and hopeful feel. The album's brick wall is its lack of substantial textural exploration. Frayne has found a sound he likes, and ventures outside of it little, aside from occasionally changing the speed of his delay. While instrumental outfits like Stars of the Lid are intent on mutating their guitar sound through manipulation of attack and decay, Lanterna's not of an experimental mind. Yet when he does exceed his standard parameters, the results are worth the effort. My favorite piece on the album is its closer, the title track, in which Frayne transforms sparsely plucked guitar notes into deep oscillating drones. It seems cliched to call an album like Highways \"good driving music.\" But its title doesn't exactly resist the connection of this sort of sound with the blur of landscapes whizzing by, mind both open and numb, body immersed in and removed from the surroundings in that perpetually transitory state. And after all, the most consistent tempo on Highways is a propulsive pace that would most accurately be called \"driving.\" So I guess we'll just have to keep this album handy for those late afternoon country car trips necessitating a soundtrack, when feeling runs deep enough to render words unnecessary. "}