{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4635/homepage_large.5e31710d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Chennault","artist":"Large Professor","title":"1st Class","text":" Without question, Large Professor (aka Extra P) has more hiphop cred than most continents. At an age when most of us were asking ourselves \"Stridex or Noczema?\", Large Pro was dipping out of gym class to lay down tracks for the legendary Rakim Allah. From there, he went on to work with the likes of Biz Markie, A Tribe Called Quest, Pete Rock & C.L. Smooth, the Beastie Boys, Gang Starr, Main Source, Nas, Big Daddy Kane, Kool G. Rap... and the list goes on and on and on. Unfortunately, at the height of his career, Large Professor signed with Geffen Records, who financed, promoted, and then promptly buried his debut album based on a perceived lack of interest in the excellent leadoff single \"I Just Wanna Chill\". While there have certainly been greater travesties committed in the name of record company money, failing to release an alreadycompleted album by one of hiphop's masters surely ranks up there somewhere. Seven years after the Geffen debacle, Extra P is back behind the boards and ready to prove that you don't need the Neptunes, a master's degree in Art Theory, or cases of Courvoisier to make a great hiphop album. Large Pro still packs his tracks with that '93 flavor, and those of you who were around in '93 know that this isn't a bad thing. The production on 1st Class, his (second) debut album, sticks to the NYC roots hiphop formula that Extra P helped refine. \"'Bout that Time\", which was released as a twelveinch nearly two years ago, exemplifies Large Professor's approach. A simple drum track thumps harder than a Suge Knight pistolwhip with a distorted horn tightly looped to further emphasize the track's aggression and momentum. In Large Pro's world, pop gimmicks are ineffectual and redefinition takes a back seat to perfection. For reasons that will be explained later, the highlights of 1st Class are the tracks that feature guest emcees. Nas, who was introduced to the world on Large Professor's \"At the BBQ\", guests on the sublime \"Stay Chisel\". Over a slickly soulful production that sounds straight off the Car Wash soundtrack, Nas switches to conscious mode, rapping, \"Take the weight of the world on my shoulders, I hold it/ So I consume most of the pain for my niggas I roll wit'/ 'Cause, see, the streets ain't no Gold's Gym poppy/ And if I feel it going down then my niggas will spot me.\" Not to be outconscioused by QB's finest, QTip shows up two songs later on \"In the Sun\" to drop his best verse in years. Large Pro delivers a simple boombap beat with harmonizing gospel vocals turned down real low in the mix to affect a smoothly reflective mood. Surprisingly, QTip finds a fresh and ironic angle to highlight racial hypocrisy and urban decay: \"Where's the 40 acres and a mule?/ You'd rather give us Micky D's and a tool/ And in the sun I see the way you pull our heart strings.\" Unfortunately, Large Pro is a far better producer than he is an emcee. His flow is a bit monotone and stale imagine Guru with a little more bass and a little less variance and his lyrics are rather insular and rarely reference anything outside of the world of hiphop, with a noted exception being the sadly nostalgic verse he drops on \"In the Sun\". His limited mic skills can work when he has a guest emcee to play off, or on upbeat tracks such as \"'Bout that Time\" and \"Born to Ball\" when his deep voice acts as yet another percussive element. But he falls flat when the tracks are more delicately nuanced and the focus lies on actual content rather than momentum. While a plethora of guest vocals is generally a liability for an album, Large Pro might want to consider enlisting a few more of his legendary friends for the next LP. After all these years, his production work is still amongst the best in the businesses, and it would be hard to imagine anyone turning down the opportunity to spit over a Large Pro beat. "}