{"label":" ROIR","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4641/homepage_large.d4e22b54.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Bill Laswell","title":"Sacred System: Book of Exit: Dub Chamber 4","text":" It's difficult to think of a musician more prolific than Bill Laswell. Every year, this guy's name comes on the spine of three to seven albums, not to mention being buried in the credits of probably a dozen more. His brilliance isn't really up for debate the sheer consistency of his releases guarantees that but after a while, consistency can get a bit numbing. Laswell is excellent at what he does, but truly definitive statements, like the amazing Invisible Design, are rare in his catalogue; his best work is spread out over too many discs to count, instead of being concentrated in one place. This is where Laswell's latest project, the preposterously named Sacred System: Book of Exit; Dub Chamber 4, comes in. Over the years, Laswell has released a veritable pantsload of dubthemed releases, and this new one follows in the much the same vein: deep bass, slow tempos, cavernous echo, and a nebulous sense of composition. As dub releases goes, it's fairly minimal; while there aren't piles of freaky samples in fact, there's really no clutter at all to speak of it's nothing Laswell hasn't explored many times before. The album's six tracks are split evenly between Laswellcomposed tests of a dub autopilot machine he's apparently been working on, and three songs he wrote with Ethiopian singer Ejigayehu \"GiGi\" Shibabaw. While Laswell's chilledout dub instrumentals aren't bad by any means, they don't hold a candle to the vocal tracks; I'm not sure what language GiGi is singing in when she leaves English behind (Ethiopia has six major languages the principle being Amharic and several more minor ones), but in the context of the music, it's beside the point, as her mellifluous delivery is ultimately what cuts through the dubby haze. Beyond GiGi herself, there's a certain drive to the three tracks she sings on that seems missing from the others. Percussionists Karsh Kale and Aiyb Dieng are consummate craftsmen, but on the dub tracks they're limited to a small window, making it difficult for them to break things up with the virtuosity they're known for. They're given a freer hand on the vocal tunes, though, which invariably results in a much more palpable sense of urgency and fire. Ultimately, it's most interesting to think of what could come of a fullscale collaboration between GiGi and Laswell: as it stands, half of this album is electrifying, the other merely passable. Under usual circumstances I might recommend this, but if you don't already own Laswell's essential releases like Psychonavigation, Invisible Design, or the various and excellent records by his other projects Praxis, Tabla Beat Science, Material, and Massacre, Sacred System can easily wait. If you're reasonably well versed in Bill's oeuvre, proceed as you wish, but know what to expect: Laswell dub bythenumbers. "}