{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4657/homepage_large.d63cf77f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Chris Lee","title":"Cool Rock","text":" The cheeky, borrowed falsetto has been cracking up the U.S. pop charts this summer, giving proud citizens all across America a perfectly valid excuse to indulge their normally repressed, squeaky and lustful whines: somehow, howling along with the cab radio has never sounded as sexy as it does right now. Appropriately, singer/songwriter Chris Lee's third record, Cool Rock, sees Lee maintaining the same high, heady croon that instantly earmarked his work back in 2000. But Lee's meandering easylistening vocals don't come with the same kind of lemmeborrowthisforasec homage that Pharrell's or Justin's have so neatly built inside. Mostly, his warbling coos just feel disembodied and awkwardly appropriated, like a trucker hat that hasn't been properly tweaked; whereas Lee's pop contemporaries openly own and toy with the results of their stealthy pilfering, it's like Lee just pretends that Stevie never even happened! The result is karaokeBuckley, a record full of vaguely selfindulgent vocal noodling without the grinning nuance required to make anybody want to roll down the windows, crinkle their nose, and yowl along. Clocking in at a little over thirty minutes, Cool Rock plays like a smoothedout, perpetually swooning exercise in pseudosoulfulness. It's not so much that Lee himself seems especially disingenuous or affected (although he occasionally does), it's that his songwriting has somehow disintegrated into shapelessness which, in turn, exponentially amps up the inherent sappiness of gooey soulsinging. Lee's selftitled debut was comparably sharp and capable, with a sort of quasiSouthern, bashful charm; Cool Rock is mushy and benign, with most of the record's eight tracks lost in a haze of overwrought vocal cartwheeling, vague backbeats, and garrulous guitars. Lee has gone elevatorpolite, laying down the smarmy sentiments and boring instrumentation without the slightest bit of selfawareness. Sonic Youth's Steve Shelley mans the drumkit for Lee (Shelley released Lee's second record, Plays and Sings Torch'd Songs, Charivari Rhythms, and Oriki BlueMarches on his own label, Smells Like Records, back when Lee was still earning a shitload of halfhearted Buckley comparisons), but his musical influence seems pretty negligible, as Lee lumbers from adult contemporary ballads to poppy swan songs. There are a handful of redeeming moments: the overdubbed horns on \"(I Was a Teenage) Symphony to God\" are so unselfconsciously predictable and retrolounge that they're almost charming. Perhaps more notably, the somewhat ironically titled and buriedattheback \"Say It Ain't Soul\" is an unquestionably solid, standout track thankfully spare instrumentation (on Cool Rock, less is almost always more) showcases Lee's undeniable vocal prowess and range, and his wails are finally pretty convincing. Then, a few minutes later, the record ends. "}