{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4671/homepage_large.a4495434.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jamin Warren","artist":"Lemon Jelly","title":"'65-'95","text":" Lemon Jelly sell Volkswagens and not just because \"The Staunton Lick\" was featured in a 2002 Jetta commercial. Their pastoral music is a smoothieladen jaunt through the Illini prairie grasslands with your feet listlessly dangling from the passenger side window of your Toureg as you head to the state fair or garage sale or marshmallow sunflower festival. At least that used to be the case. It seems Nick Franglen and Fred Deakin have changed tonal locales, aligning their temperances with the metropolitan. If Lost Horizons was a tryst through a glorious, luminescent countryside, then '64'95 is the shiftless subway car careening through midtown streets and echoing throughout forgotten, bitonal alleys. The country mouse pawns his acoustic guitar for an Ibanez and ditches his walking stick for a Zipcar. With little more than the forgetful ramblings of an elderly man on the intro, \"'88 aka Come Down on Me\" sounds like the background music for mid90s airplane crime dramas like ConAir or Turbulence the ones that always have that squealing White Zombie song in the background. Fortunately, this piece is an anomaly.'64'95 succeeds when Lemon Jelly stick to their bread and butter: pleasant and facile ambience. \"Make Things Right\" carries a wistful, dignified elegance with its melodious guitar track. When they embark on other journeys, the results feel forced. Tracks like \"Don't Stop Now\" and dancey \"Stay With You\" feel as sensual as silkshirted muscleman at overpriced bar whispering in your ear. And \"The Shouty Track\" is as annoying as the fiveminute training tape for irritable parents on my desk from National Center on Shaken Baby Syndrome. Lemon Jelly stood out from the Thievery Corporations and Amon Tobins by creating something wonderful and energetic. They excelled at painting beauty but apparently have become victims of the city's stealth and sloth. Having discarded layering and complication for realms more wellrehearsed, '64'95 feels like a postcard from a tourist rather than the urban autobiographies that DJ Shadow and RjD2 are able to so masterfully cohere. Fortunately, there is considerable significance in the album's final track \"Go\". Flighty and driving, Lemon Jelly perhaps will take all they've learned from the metropolis to embark for higher ground, maybe walking tall like Bunyan's Christian from Vanity Fair, wiser and bolder from the knowledge of the city. "}