{"label":" Homesleep","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4679/homepage_large.abc08596.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Lenola","title":"Sharks and Flames","text":" The cover of Cream's 1968 double album Wheels of Fire features one of those crazy psychedelic bubble drawings that adorned hundreds of albums in the late 60s, with one key difference: the artwork featured only two colors, black and silver, rather than the usual rainbow swirl. Proceeding beyond the gatefold, Bruce, Baker & Clapton proved on that album's two discs (one live, one studio) the seemingly illogical hypothesis that psychedelic music could be utterly monochromatic, making the odd cover art strikingly apropos. Granted, there were some great songs on that album their excellent versions of \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" and \"Crossroads\" (and, of course, you can't fuck with \"White Room\") but the album's rigorous overall consistency in tone and color made it remarkably dull as a whole. 35 years later, along comes Lenola, with another double album that proves psychedelic music can still be pretty monochromatic, a full generation after the term came into being. I'm not making any musical comparison between Lenola and Cream at all: Cream's brand of psychedelia sat heavily on blues for its foundation, while Lenola are the product of something altogether different, more pastoral and more modern. Since losing original bassist Scott Colan and expanding into a quintet, they seem to have been hit to death in the future head, basking in the glow of the Flaming Lips and borrowing whole chapters from the book of Mercury Rev whilst largely kicking to the curbside the UK shoegazer influences that shaped their early records. In short, they're drawing from a host of sources either directly or tangentially related to Lips producer Dave Fridmann, but the honeyed harmonies that coat each song have a certain whiff of 70s AM gold about them as well several of these songs could easily be in the same subdivision as \"Our House\". Lenola take a decidedly rockist approach to their influences, building remarkably lush sounds for a home recording but steering widely clear of the incandescent orchestration the Lips and the Rev are so taken with these days. The unfortunate thing is that the band's songwriting process churns out twenty decent tracks, but almost none of them stand out: the two discs are for the most part interchangeable. That the second disc is generally slowerpaced and less memorable than the first only makes the album feel much longer than its combined 82 minutes. The opener, \"Eternal\", is particularly great, however, giving the guitars one last moment of complete dominance before setting them back next to the numerous keyboards that have found their way into the band's stable. The song is one of the few that employs a real climax, opening with fervent strumming and swelling harmonies and ultimately bursting into a fuller texture borne on pounding drums, all the while flaunting some nice fretboard fireworks. \"Sudden Stop\" stands out as well, employing a jittery rhythm, and strange, woozy modulations that throw the verses somewhat off kilter; \"Gentleman Overboard\" brings in luminescent keys and bells to highlight the chord structure and create a countermelody to the vocals over the album's liveliest beat. Yet, despite some good material, Sharks and Flames ultimately succumbs to that ageold double album curse: it just doesn't need to be as long as it is, and with some editorial discretion, it could have been much easier to swallow. There's no reason for a plodding song like \"Traffic Lights\" to stretch beyond five minutes (or make the cut at all, really), and I get the general feeling that the number at the top of this review would be higher if the cutting room floor were more cluttered. Lenola are a Good Band, but if I might borrow a sentiment from fellow scribe Matt LeMay, they've yet to make a Great Album. Sharks and Flames shows it's not for lack of trying, but, for now, Lenola remain a possibility, perhaps capable of something better. "}