{"label":" Lookout!","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4683/homepage_large.1f48f33d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Ted Leo and the Pharmacists","title":"Tell Balgeary, Balgury is Dead EP","text":" Often during my tenure with this fine webmag, I seem to have had a certain \"difficulty\" getting \"facts\" \"straight.\" My review for Ted Leo's fine Hearts of Oak was a telling example of this, as a number of people wrote in to dispute some of my claims regarding their man and his music, despite my unbridled enthusiasm for the LP. Fortunately for my journocred, Leo just dropped this brief EP, conveniently timed to remind all us crits to remember Hearts of Oak for our yearend lists. In similar piggybacking style, I'll go ahead and retract my previous erroneous statements here, so that the pristine factchecking reputation of Pitchforkmedia.com can be restored to its previous bowlinglane luster.Retraction #1: Ted Leo is not an incredibly short person.Readers took issue with this characterization, though I distinctly remember all my closeup interactions with the man being shoulderheight affairs. Regardless, how could a scribe pass up the irresistible image of the Little Man with the Big Voice? It would, after all, come in handy for discussing Tell Balgeary, Balgury is Dead, Leo's new takehome souvenir of his current solo tour. Leo's recent oneman shows have revealed him as the rare modpunk that doesn't turn into a sensitive coffeeshop plucker when gotten alone. Resolutely pluggedin with blurredhand strumming away and WD40 vocals blaring, his sansPharmacists performances showed only a slight decrement in energy from the fourpiece setup he usually tours with. For easy comparison, feast on the version of \"The High Party\" included here, wherein Leo somehow manages to navigate all the tempo complexities of the album version by himself, flying convincingly without a rhythm section.Retraction #2: Ted Leo no longer lives in Washington, D.C.I'll admit that I hadn't kept up on Leo's shifts in mailing address, and was unaware that he'd made the move to New Jersey before the release of Hearts of Oak. But can you blame me for wanting to claim him as a District hero, given the slim pickings left in the wake of The Dismemberment Plan's dissolution? For god's sake, that leaves us with nothing but El Guapo! On recent tours, Leo's been celebrating his return to Garden State residency with a version of \"Dancing in the Dark\" more spunky than The Boss ever imagined, but sadly, Tell Balgeary's budget apparently couldn't handle the royalties. Instead, Leo presents reverent, accelerated takes on tunes by The Jam, Split Enz, and Ewan McColl, whose \"Dirty Old Town\" suits Leo's Irish tendencies like syrup on bacon.Ted even tries to recreate McColl's pastoral reminiscences with his own \"Bleeding Powers\", which namedrops South Bend (though not his exschoolpal Brent DiCrescenzo) alongside the pintswinging sentiment \"the road leads me somewhere/ But it's not yet to your door.\" \"Bleeding Powers\" also features a tidbit of war commentary, a topic Leo explores further (if not much more deeply) on \"Loyal to My Sorrowful Country\". You can take the boy out of the District, but you can't take the politics out of the boy. Top it off with \"The Sword in the Stone\", a strongpopper in the traditional Leo style, and forecasts begin to look pretty promising for LP #4.Retraction #3: The Pharmacists are not a transitory, revolvingdoor backing band.Yeah, so apparently, The Pharmacists, which started out as a fictional entity for Leo's bedroom tape experiments, have a lineup that's pretty locked in place now bassist David Lerner and Richard Manuelimpersonating drummer Chris Wilson have provided the proverbial rocksolid rhythm for years now. I didn't realize how important they'd become on record until Tell Balgeary, though, because it turns out that a faithful representation of Leo's superb solo live shows doesn't translate so well to an ideal home listening experience. Sure, this disc reflects the passion of Ted on stage, but it also often sounds dashedoff, and not a little bit like listening to your roommate practice his punk band's set in the next room.The new songs offered on Balgeary, while promising, nevertheless appear in dehydrated form, demos waiting for fullband arrangements that will hopefully capitalize on Leo's newfound grasp of keys and dense percussion. The covers are agreeable, but somewhat predictable, never revealing new angles on his music like his live renditions of Curtis Mayfield's \"Keep on Pushin'\" do. Two tracks of woahdude sound experimentation, hearkening back to the confuseddub of his immediate postChisel \"Tej\" days, further decrease the EP's validity. But Tell Balgeary, Balgury is Dead has that shortplayer mentality, serving not just as tour merch, but also as reassurance that Leo's vocal cords all back in order after the neardisastrous larynx cavein he suffered on tour last spring. That Balgeary isn't as indispensable a thinslice as 2000's Treble in Trouble is a shame, but as a taste of solo Leo for places his van never reaches, it's slightly more than a mere gapstopper.  "}