{"label":" Two Ton Santa","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4685/homepage_large.5844843e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Guess Who This Is: A Tribute to Dom Leone","text":" Do you know Dom Leone? I'm just coming to terms with the man myself, though I will report steady progress on that front. After years of discovering the ins and outs of life and music, and more than my share of mistakes with both, I had come to a point where I thought I was prepared for just about anything. That is, until Ryan sent me this CD, and I found out that not only had I been caught unaware of the songs, I hadn't really ever known Dom Leone at all. In this case, I thought it best to start fresh with an introduction to the guy. As much as I'd have liked to say I got a CD of my own music reviewed at Pitchfork (written by myself, in a doublereverse coup of the site's integrity), I must admit that Guess Who This Is is actually a tribute to the late cofounder of eclectic folkrockers Ed's Redeeming Qualities. Leone died of cancer in 1989, shortly before the band released its first fulllength, More Bad Times, on Flying Fish. Judging by the songs on this set, his quirky brand of folk, incorporating aspects of country, rock and lots of humor (as well as kitchensink instrumentation) found lots of ways to inform the sound of the band. Guess Who This Is collects performances of family, friends and bandmates playing several of Leone's songs, and makes the case that he might have been one of the brighter spots in 90s alternative music especially in light of the popularity of bands like Uncle Tupelo and Wilco. Now, we all know that tribute albums are usually no good for two reasons: 1) they're comprised of blist bands performing thirdrate versions of songs by artists who were probably dead in the public consciousness long before they got their tribute; and 2) the performances, already of little interest to anyone but hyperfanatics, rarely stand any chance of elaborating on original versions. Guess Who This Is is able to withstand those criticisms almost in spite of itself: the bands are most likely completely unfamiliar to anyone but each other, and the tributee only slightly less so. So, you could think of this as Dom Leone's debut record. Leone seemed to have specialized in the mundane observances we take for granted, and spun them into short, poignant vignettes. \"More Bad Times\", performed by Curtis Harvey (of Loftus), laments having not enough tragic moments to a gentle country waltz. Harvey's wobbly whine suits the easy protest perfectly, and accordion, slide guitar and plaintive piano lend the tune an elegant veneer. \"Guess Who This Is\" offers a similar listing technique, but applied to the details of several different people (or perhaps several sides of one person). Its loosely defiant tempo and balladeering, modern folk style is handled expertly by The Buckets (featuring Early Butter, who played with an early version of The Breeders, who in turn covered the Ed's Redeeming Qualities tune \"Drivin' on 9\" on Last Splash). Where this disc is likely to fall short with newcomers to Leone's music is in the occasional lapses into overpreciousness. Music Night's performance of \"My Apartment\" is cute the first time, but the singer's monotone vocal and the goofy steel drums get a bit overprecious after a while. Similarly, the horndriven \"Song Nancy Hates\" and \"Sweater\" seem more kiddieshow silly than merely whimsical. Dom Leone never got a chance to hear these songs performed in front of a wider audience than his local New Hampshire fans. For those people, this release will undoubtedly be a warm reunion with a clearly inspired observer. To the rest of you strangers, feel free to make yourself at home. This music isn't likely to set hearts aflame with incendiary passion and drama, but for a summer evening on the back porch, it could strike your chord. "}