{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4688/homepage_large.553ae826.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Sondre Lerche with the Faces Down Quartet","title":"Duper Sessions","text":" Open house this month at the indiepop singer/songdude factory, but but there are some tires or drug habits you don't want to kick (just caffeine, Mom). So why does Stephin Merritt have to go and make a Showtunes album when everybody who didn't know Stephin Merritt liked showtunes has worse problems than rockism? And, while we're killing Santa and finding out where the falafel cart guy washes his hands postpee, here's another obvious blissbuster: Cool, jazzy pop dude Sondre Lerche likes cool, poppy jazz. I totally know! Yup, the 23yearold Norwegian kid whose delovely 2004 traipse Two Way Monologue taught you the difference between augmented and diminished chords totally digs him some Chet Baker not just the trumpet stuff, either. Backed, like Baker on his 1958 Sings It Could Happen to You, by a deft quartet, Lerche steps away on Duper Sessions from the mild psychedelia of his two alloriginal albums. Instead, with walking bass, and clean, closemiked production, he breezes through a smart smattering of new and standard material. Lerche has always been something of a jazzstyle interpreter. On previous albums, the frameworks for Lerche's skeedoodoodling melodies also include Nick Drake and the Beach Boys, but great tunes sometimes get tripped up by incomprehensible lyrics (beats my Norwegian though). But despite solid backing here, he doesn't sing like Baker, let alone Frank Sinatra; his soft Ben Gibbard geekiness is an odd, if timely, fit for the swinging material, and flourishes of Jeff Buckley throat rattles don't help. His take on Cole Porter's \"Night and Day\" is as callmeunexceptional as the take on Porter's \"The More I See You\" he funny valentined for a Starbucks comp alongside Madeleine Peyroux. A pianoled run on tourmate Elvis Costello's \"Human Hands\" doesn't go too Harry Connick, while a cover of likeminded English group Prefab Sprout's 1988 \"Nightingales\" slowly tinkles more like wind chimes than songbirds. Fortunately, the best of Lerche's originals blend right in with and actually work better than the remakes. \"The Curse of Being in Love\" starts with clean, lightly syncopated guitar as Lerche sings of the joy of new romance vs. the horror of mature love \"It won't get better\" before a delightful, if not unexpected, closing turn. Descending piano plays as large a role as Lerche's voice on slow, dewy \"Minor Detail\", and the Flamingoslike doowop waltz \"You Sure Look Swell\" coaxes out the wine glasses almost as easily as Baker's classics. Still, for all the potential postNorah Jones appeal of a record like Duper Sessions, it mostly just whets the appetite for Lerche's next album, where one hopes Bakerstyle standards will again serve merely as an ingredient, not the entrée. Who knows where this guy's hands have been? Merritt can keep doing showtunes, though. "}