{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4695/homepage_large.44f423b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Lesser","title":"C64 Massive SIDplay Party Mix CD","text":" For the sake of full disclosure, let me say this upfront: I'm an Atari man. My pops dropped a 2600 on me on my sixth birthday, and from there on out it was Joust and Adventure and that goddamn impossible E.T. In recent years I've been geeky with my time and money and tracked down other old Atari models, like the Atari 400 computer and the last reworking of the Atari console system, the 7800. I've come across countless Commodores in these searches, but never have I been tempted to buy one. Maybe it's a Coke/Pepsitype of thing. Some kids dug GoBots and Legos, some went in for Transformers and Construx. So as far as nostalgia goes, Lesser's C64 Massive SIDplay Mix didn't have me reaching for the photo album and tissues. Give me River Raid any day. Being a PC noodler and composer, however, has exposed me to the sounds and possibilities of the SID chip, the source of the Commodore's grainy, chunky, Vietnamvetbeatboxingwithavocoder musical palette. While it actually utilizes less tone generators than the Atari's POKEY synth chip (three channels to the POKEY's four), and exists in two different models (MOS 6581, used here, and MOS 8580), the SID chip has seemingly found the widest postheyday audience: There are websites that list scores of C64exclusive composers. And now, there's also this latest effort from Matmos VIP J. Lesser. An indulgent celebration of one fan's devotion to the legacy of Bob Yannes, C64 Massive SIDplay is a continuous mix of (supposedly) preexisting SIDcrafted loops and dotmatrix grooves that stands as both a tribute and an exercise in pushing the chip's dated abilities to the maximum. It's a showcase. Oh yeah, and a chance to completely fuck with Paula Abdul. Abdul's sillybitch single \"Straight Up\" gets an 8bit enema here, and arena heroes Van Halen are represented by a decayed, malfunctioning interpretation of \"Jump\"; these and a few other covers in the mix, while entertaining, come off as cute and gimmicky, and don't develop into anything more than novelties (I've already heard that terrible Canadian dance version of \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\" do we need to trivialize this song again?). Only Salt 'N' Pepa's \"Push It\" benefits from the tinkering, rising from the album's closing minutes like a readymade cyborg street soldier with infinite ammo and nine lives left. These cuts find themselves mixed up with straightahead techno potboilers a la the Mortal Kombat theme, fractured drum breaks, SID rave whistles, and gabber basslines, all spliced together by Lesser, who is obviously enjoying himself under his street pimp alias DJ Brotha PTouch. But nostalgia only gets so many miles per gallon, and as a continuous mix, Massive SIDplay breaks down pretty fast; not from a lack of love or skill on Lesser's part, but from the simple fact that unadulterated video game music gets old after a while. The SID chip tones become nondescript, the rhythms repetitive and predictable (although the slashand burn explosion around the 48minute mark shakes things up, compositionwise), and as one track links up with the next you find yourself wondering: Do I really need to hear an hour of this? Alec Empire's Nintendo Teenage Robots ran into similar trouble with the Nintendo sound chip, finding that the limitations of the source device led to an increasing lack of modern musical possibilities and a heap of discarded work. Lesser would be wise to listen to the 8bit Construction Set's \"Atari vs. Commodore\" 12inch, one side of which features SIDcomposed locked grooves for DJs, as well as the ingenious \"Dollars\", which puts the nostalgia aside and finds the Detroit grime in the SID's silicon soul. For those among you weaned on a Commodore in the rec rooms and dens of American youth, Massive SIDplay could be the soundtrack of your life: An indelible, comforting stroll through a gamer's childhood, assuming your childhood took place above a Tokyo discothèque circa 1983. For the rest of us, Lesser's mix is an interesting document of the SID chip's capabilities and charms. It's prime mixing material and a clever musical oddity, but not the partystarter it hopes to be. "}