{"label":" Loosethread","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4697/homepage_large.950b1a43.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Lesser Birds of Paradise","title":"It Isn't The Fall EP","text":" The weather in Chicago is notoriously erratic this time of year. As I write this, porches in my neighborhood are enjoying maximum occupancy as folks sip tea, guzzle beer, stare into space, smoke cigarettes, smoke joints, sing softly to themselves, wave to strangers on the street you know, that usual peaceful springtime stuff. But even though all seems calm and relaxed, there's a sense of discomfort lurking just beneath the idyllic veneer, as every Chicagoan knows that they might wake up tomorrow to rainstorms and frigid wind. This ability at masking uneasiness with a stoic, wellpracticed relaxed calm comes through on It Isn't the Fall, the second release by the Chicagobased Lesser Birds of Paradise. The Lesser Birds are yet another band cranking out altcountry flavored Indie Brand pop music. Like so many other bands like them, I can't bring myself to hate the Lesser Birds; after all, they deliver their cleverenough vocals with a likable, gentle voice that's accompanied by prettyenough backing oohs and ahhs and clean instrumentation. Still, despite the addition of theremins, saws, keyboards, vibes and upright bass (the last two provided by former Coctails Mark Greenberg and Barry Phipps, respectively), the Lesser Birds don't exactly stand out. There's no denying that they sound, well... nice. But that's precisely the problem. There's no uncertainty or worry in the music to match that in the lyrics. \"She's Got a Set of Wings,\" for example, really wants to be a sad song about an indecisive girl the kind that inevitably conjures up a mental image of some unfortunate girl you know yourself. Mark Janka sings lines like, \"She used to know the names of all the pigeons in Times Square/ Now she's got her own wings/ But they don't take her anywhere,\" with a standard sensitivemusicianguy voice and there's lots of pretend mellotron to make it sound real moody and stuff. But Janka and his bandmates lack the conviction necessary to pull it off, and Phipps' engineering, while competent, lacks the subtlety it takes to make such sentiments resonate. This music sounds too practiced to be sincere, and often, Janka's KindercorebywayofTweedy vocals sound too walkedthrough to really matter. \"Into Pieces\" may be the most indecisive song here but the confusion's got nothing to do with unrequited love, a lost hometown or a lack of whatever. Rather, Janka seems uncertain if he's trying to be creepy (\"If I could cut you into pieces,\" starts one verse; \"If I could stir the blood in your veins,\" starts the next), goofy (\"And we'd make love like all the R&B; singers do/ And we would do it just like R&B; singers do\"), or wistfully Wilcoesque (\"A telescope is my only hope of getting closer to you\"). It seems likely the band could pull off any of the above with reasonable competency, but instead the three get confused and the song wanders without much direction. Were It Isn't the Fall much longer, I might've succeeded in mustering up the bile and anger that are necessary ingredients for the Trademark Pitchfork Diss. But at twentysome minutes, the Lesser Birds of Paradise fail to grate any more than they inspire. They don't really strike me as bad or untalented they just don't strike me at all. It Isn't the Fall is the sort of thing that comes and goes every day without getting paid much attention. It might even be likeable, given a temperate day and a benevolent temperament. But much like a sunny day in the middle of a frigid Chicago May, I know that any such enjoyment will be fleeting. The Lesser Birds may be a quick hint of warmth, but they're hardly the fullon blazing summer I'm anxiously awaiting. "}