{"label":" Rough Trade","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4709/homepage_large.c4b41e0e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"The Libertines","title":"Up the Bracket","text":" And so it's come to pass: the great wheel of revivalism spins, dredging up the next phase of music history to be paraded about it was only a matter of time before we came around to The Clash. But just as calling The Clash \"punk\" belittles how their sound had evolved by the movement's curtain call, it would be unfairly dismissive to brand The Libertines Clash knockoffs. You'd have to throw in a line or two about singer Pete Doherty sounding uncannily like an English Julian Casablancas to be more dismissive. British Strokes for British folks, as they say. All cards on the table, though: Up the Bracket does emulate, thanks in no small part to production care of exClash founder Mick Jones, but it never truly imitates. Like The Clash before them, The Libertines draw primarily from decades of rock tradition blues, dub, a healthy whiff of the English countryside, and a few gorgeous rock riffs straight from the brainstem of Chuck Berry and fuse them into an unruly and triumphant monster of an album. The band burns through a range of emotions with fearless abandon, and just when one track seems about to split into pieces, they pull it all together only to threaten glorious collapse again on the next song. From their plaintive anthems to fuckall barnburners, this is some of the most fun I've had with a CD in ages. Rarely does a band approach such a wide array of attitudes with equal proficiency. \"Boys in the Band\" traverses miles of territory in four short minutes; funkfused riffs lend a dangerous swagger to Doherty's ultraconfident vocals before, curiously, the whole thing pulls a 180 into barbershopstyle harmonies. It's not as crazy as it sounds, but it's twice as fun. Later, the band find themselves in the throes of a token heartfelt ballad even one that delivers unexpected quaintness and delicate folk sensibilities as oldtime cymbal washes make such an obvious track better than it has any right to be. But before the glow fades, they take us right back to hookladen rock with the title song, recalling The Clash's finest moments, complete with vocals lifted from Joe Strummer's back pocket. There's an almost indescribable wealth of rock lurking on Up the Bracket, and rarely is it less than blissfully entertaining. In just thirtyodd minutes, The Libertines pretty much do it all. Call it calculated, call it derivative hell, there's so much to this album, you can call it just about anything you like and probably not be too far from the truth but if you don't hear it, you'll be the one missing out. "}