{"label":" Disco Mariscos","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/473/homepage_large.58b8dd58.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Applied Communications","title":"Uhhh Sort Of","text":" Uhhh Sort Of is an irritating, scattershot, oftendifficult mess of an album, but a little backstory might leave you wondering if that's precisely as it should be. Max Wood, the kid behind the mess, started the album when he was 16 years old. His mother had just passed away, leaving him with just one grandparent to call family. And he'd begun to suspect that the attentiondeficit computer collage of the music he'd made so far was doing the wrong thing leaning on jokes and leaning on irony as a way of avoiding any real emotional statement. And then a few months at his computer give us this: A record where all the mess and all the irony could feasibly break your heart. The only catch is that you might not be able to bear listening to it in the first place. The \"songs\" have a slovenly basement buzz on par with Pavement's first singles and God Ween Satan and unlike parts of those, Wood is largely insensitive to the notion of developing things like melodies and song structures. No, he just runs together tickytack drum machine beats, sews a noisy mess of synth and sample around them, and then rants in a nasal, whiny, geekbrat voice that's guaranteed to send ninety percent of listeners racing for the off button. Better still, how about a geekbrat stuck on irony, selfdoubt, and selfconsciousness? \"Yeah, I lack confidence,\" he says. \"Popular music contributes little to society,\" he says. \"This is awesome,\" he says, \"this is the best song ever.\" Then he closes the album out with several minutes of repeating the same thing: \"I have a point/ I have to live/ I cannot die.\" Which is my roundabout way of saying that this stuff has more scary, raw emotion in it than you might imagine, all expressed in the painfully ironic, annoyingly selfconscious manner that scary, raw teenage breakdowns actually take. I asked Wood what artists he thinks this might have a kinship with, and his first response was Daniel Johnston a mentally ill singersongwriter whose songs offer a sometimes uncomfortably direct line into a peculiar life. He could just as easily have pointed to Gary Wilson, another teenagebasement type whose neuroses leap right up from the vinyl. Meanwhile, Uhhh Sort Of is 30 minutes of a guy withering, lecturing himself, saying \"awesome\" a lot, and baldly hyperventilating about loving his mother over joyous, scattershot samplepop that blurts like Kleenex Girl Wonder gone weird. For most people, it'll get written off as annoying, selfindulgent, and amusical, or maybe just a oneshot novelty, and there's plenty of evidence to support those points of view. For a few people, though, it might win a particular spot in the mind as part of a line of teenage confrontations with bad feeling and selfconsciousness, brought neatly into the PC age, and damned cathartic about it.  "}