{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4717/homepage_large.75797f15.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Jamie Lidell","title":"Multiply","text":" I first heard Multiply a few months ago, via mp3, without any accompanying press releases or literature to help contextualize it. A significant break from Jamie Lidell's prior work both as a solo laptop artist on Warp and as one half of Super_Collider (Chilean techno terrorist Christian Vogel carries the other half of that amulet), its breezy soul had me dreaming up back stories. Maybe these were all guest vocalists. Maybe Warp's promobot purposely mislabelled some old Stax record to put me off the scent. Maybe Lidell did some Logic voodoo on a vault of old soul reels and repurposed a bunch of lesserheard Motown gems to fit a glitchier, Warpfriendly palette. The real answer was simpler than that. Nearly five years in the making, Multiply represents Lidell's dramatic transformation from a knobtwiddling laptopper to a redblooded soul singer. Where Lidell's prior solo work enjoyed a wellearned reputation for being difficult and forbidding, Multiply is among the most accessible records Warp has ever released. Backed by instrumentation from the likes of Berlinite squatters such as Mocky and Gonzales, and fleshed out by Lidell's robust, fullbodied voice, Multiply has the spirit of classic Motown and Stax. Whether in the breezy, sundrenched title track, the soulful creep of \"This Time\" or the closing ballad \"Game For Fools\", it's obvious that Lidell isn't afraid of channeling (or repeating) history. But while the song structures and Lidell's vocal style owe boatloads to the 60s and 70s, there's also a modern programming style at work here that separates him from modern day revivalists like, say, Sharon Jones. Listen to Multiply once and you'll be struck by how reverent it is; listen to it three times and you'll start to notice the microscopic digital artifacts and subtle tweaks that give it personality and pop. For all the talk about it being a throwback record, it's also true that a handful of these tracks probably couldn't have been made in 1995, much less '65. The wet funk of first single \"When I Come Around\" takes glitchy liberties with its percussion track and includes a stunning middle8 where Lidell's vocal gets chopped, sliced and sprinkled over a merrygoround; the goofy \"A Little Bit More\" sounds like nusoul run through a slapstick plugin; the delirious funk of \"Newme\" is a ninelayer cake of boombap, Rhodes and horns, about six levels of which had to have been built after the fact, in the studio, on a computer. Anyway, if the Maximo Park record wasn't enough to signify the end of days for the Warp of old, this should do the trick. Not just because it's one of the label's most commercially viable releases in forever, but because it goes to great lengths to lovingly namecheck the very strands of soul (i.e. Otis Redding, Sam Cooke, Stevie Wonder, etc.) that the old Warp very fastidiously avoided. While I'm not sure that people have as strong a sense of brand loyalty to Warp anymore, this is probably still going to go down in electronic music circles as one of the year's most polarizing records. But don't let the naysayers keep you from hearing this before the winter rolls around; boasting 10 gorgeous songs over a trim 40 minutes, this is exactly the kind of record you need in your summer. "}