{"label":" Memphis Industries","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/474/homepage_large.14582caf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Absentee","title":"Donkey Stock","text":" Elegant debauchery is a tough thing to nail, and there are only a few bands who have managed to strike that perfect balance of class and crass and make music that transcends both. Tindersticks, for example, have been cranking out albums that freely migrate from posh lobbies to stained sheets, desire to addiction. On their debut EP, Absentee seem to be flirting with this same territory (right down to the donkey in the title), though not with quite the same success. Most of the music rests in this ambiguous place between country indie rock eighth notes on the bass caressed by steel guitar and Daniel Michaelson's molasses baritone. An occasional stab of distortionsoaked guitar breaks the record's focus on slow, brooding ballads. So to does the sole uptempo track, \"Something to Bang\", which is stuffed with fuzzy leads and pounding drums offset by Michaelson's steadfastly lowkey vocals, which join the song at more of a walking pace and scarcely rise above a tone of casual conversation. \"I'm tired of being a man/ Always something to bang,\" he says, but his discomfort with his own desire in the lyrics isn't fully fleshed out. Later, on \"In the Toilets Again\", he sings \"It doesn't help to know we're having sex without coming\" and it feels similarly, er, unfulfilled, as though the imagery of the song is hoping for the debased depths of the human spirit, but can't get past the \"doo doo doo doo\" backing vocals to find it. That the dirtiness in the lyrics feels frequently contrived is a major strike against the effectiveness of the record as a whole. Otherwise, things work nicely, as the band has a good sense of dynamics, and Michaelson's voice inhabits their countrified textures with heavy worldweariness. So all the pieces aren't yet fitting together as they should, but Absentee are still a winning proposition on the whole. This is just a debut EP, 26 minutes long, and one gets the impression that this is a band that will sound more at home in the longer format of an album, where ideas can be drawn out and mistakes are more easily overlooked. "}