{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4733/homepage_large.7e3736dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chip Chanko","artist":"Lilys","title":"Zero Population Growth EP: Bliss Out v.15","text":" I was able to play this album only once before it disappeared. ...Well, it didn't really disappear. I lent it to a girl at work. I thought she'd like it. That's really what started the whole thing. She held on to it for a few days. I dropped by from time to time, managing to sneak in a track here or there. (\"Boy! That 'You Win' track sure is great! And 'The Escape\" is great, too!\") This eventually ended when I plunked myself down in her room, ready for more Lilys, and was rudely awakened by a bit of the Beatles' White Album (which I didn't really mind... but where was my CD??) She said that the graphics department took it. Hmm... The graphics department was on the fourth track when I reached them. They had the best set of speakers in the office, so I decided that perhaps this was as good a place as any to leave the album for the time being. I grabbed a V8 from the fridge and tilted back in a chair facing away from the sound. Sun from the window warmed the side of my face. For the next fifteen minutes I felt as if my brain was made of helium. Then I went back to work in my office. Meanwhile, the album continued to make its way around work. Marketing seemed to like \"Back Again.\" The CoPresidents enjoyed \"The Law.\" As soon as anyone would hear ten seconds of the album, they'd immediately ask who it was and if they could borrow it. I finally had to steal it from the receptionist's desk while she was on her lunch break. By this time, the jewel case was cracked and the booklet was missing. I quickly went home to listen without any interruptions. If you're not a fan of the Lilys, the Kinks or My Bloody Valentine, realize that this is nothing like that stuff. It's a total departure from what Kurt Heasley has been doing of late (unless he's been doing this at home without us knowing, along with some macrame). Archie Moore (from Velocity Girl in the past and the Heartworms in the present) joins Heasley on this EP along with Trevor Kampman, known in pop circles merely as Holland. Supposedly, this is what Kraftwerk and other Krautrock bands sounded like. I personally have never thought of them as being this lush and gurgling. Zero Population Growth is like syrup being poured from one of those fish shaped pitchers. It's like diving into a swimming pool filled with new crispy M&M;'s. So trust me you'll like it. It's one of those records that will stand out in your collection. One of those records that when you have to hear it, you have to hear it. Just don't let anyone in your office borrow it. "}