{"label":" Righteous Babe","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4744/homepage_large.4510a655.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dan Lett","artist":"Arto Lindsay","title":"Salt","text":" \"You're only as good as your last album.\" There are only a few artists for whom I'd waive this rule of thumb. Luckily, they've never really tested me. I was less keen on Nocturama than most of the rest of Nick Cave's catalog, and Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy's latest threw me a little but there was enough virtue in each record to keep me enthralled by their respective franchises. Bowie repeatedly disappoints me nowadays, but I have reconciled this by imagining two distinct Bowies, one on either side of the 80s. Salt, however, has me reassessing everything Arto Lindsay's ever released, the extent to which I ever really loved him, and whether I need to forgive him, too. Lindsay's always been irreverent of the mainstream, unscrupulously dipping in and out of pop. The public has held his work in fittingly whimsical regard, as a given release might briefly capture the zeitgeist, only for the next to follow less relevant tangents. Lindsay flirts with avantrock and pop, never fully subscribing to a genre, though an enduring affair with bossa nova colors most of his work. Reminiscent of a youthful Leonard Cohen about to lose himself entirely in listless daydreaming, Lindsay has always let his soft, elusive vocals glisten like a layer of honey over their contained melodies.Salt, much in step with Lindsay's more recent mode, recalls neither his \"fake jazz\" combo The Lounge Lizards, nor his dance/noise project Ambitious Lovers and it's a long, long way from the nowave DNA project that he began with back in 1978. Instead, it carries forth the Brazilian electronic theme instilled during Lindsay's mid90s experiments with such artists as Vinicius Cantauria. \"Twins\" typifies this approach, pairing loose world and triphop flavored beats with glitchy electronics and recalling that era's The Subtle Body LP. What disappoints here, compared to, say, 2002's Invoke, is a conspicuous distance between Lindsay's sexually charged and insightful lyrics and their rightful musical home. You get the feeling that the vocal tracks could be indiscriminately swapped between songs and you'd never notice. On \"Kamo (Dark Stripe)\", Arto's Mick Hucknallesque croon drifts meaninglessly on the technically proficient yet bland and subdued backing. Too many songs go by unnoticed, polished to such a blinding sheen that their surfaces reflect little discernable color or character. The album isn't without its pleasant moments, though. \"Into Shade\" is subtle and delicate, melting into gorgeous strings and perfectly restrained guitar phrasing. Here, Lindsay's voice interacts fully with the instrumentation rather than floating somewhere nearby in ponderous detachment. \"Personagem\" is a rich bossa nova excursion dotted with clever melodic interludes and an infectious, recurring guitar riff. The album rotates around \"Jardim da Alma\" (or \"Garden of the Soul\"), a cluttered but accomplished amalgamation of Lindsay's transcontinental influences.Salt does some disservice to Lindsay's progression without entirely disgracing it. There's ample prettiness here to ensure second and third listens, but this will be no one's favorite Arto Lindsay album. As the music flickers with poise and confidence, the vocals fail to emote the seductive implications of Lindsay's words. Maybe it's this lack of cohesion that \"De Lama Lamina\" descends into squawky discordance to protest. Although Salt is mixed, frustrating, and hardly reflects the twentyodd years Lindsay spent getting here, it's a peccadillo amidst an otherwise admirable legacy. Guess I'll be back for more after all. "}