{"label":" Nonresponse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4766/homepage_large.b89ba93d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Loess","title":"Loess","text":" Maybe there should be a rule that electronic music reviews shouldn't be allowed to use Aphex Twin as a point of comparison anymore. [Uh, Dave... didn't you get the memo? Ed.] With a body of work as ubiquitous as Richard D. James', saying something sounds like Aphex Twin seems on par with a pop critic who compares everything he hears to the Beatles. It's not that the comparisons to James are irrelevant or untrue (good luck finding a bedroom composer who wasn't at least slightly influenced by him) it's just that the connection could be drawn without saying. And yet, there are those times when such a comparison deems itself necessary. Like the premiere album from Loess the second release from Nonresponse, a label which previously brought us Codec Scovill's Clinical Imperfections. In fact, Loess' members are twothirds of Codec Scovill. And though the music they make under the two guises shares a similar dark beauty, the two groups are set apart by more than names. Loess aims for a fuller sound, adding bass and beats to the elemental backdrops of Clinical Imperfections. But while these more traditional elements make Loess more accessible than Codec Scovill, they don't necessarily make it better. The songs on Loess are plenty enjoyable, but they're nothing we haven't heard before. Which brings us back to good ol' Richard James. Loess' arrangements are built around oldschool beats that unfold over long dramatic waves of synths, creeping between crescendo and decrescendo over long expanses of time, yet always in tune with the occasionally unpredictable beats. Of course, if you're going to rip off anyone, Aphex Twin is a good choice. There's nothing wrong with wearing your influences on your sleeve, so long as they're just that influences. Loess has plenty of moments that are distinctly their own, which promise of greater things to come. There's the prepared piano that weaves its way through \"Spring Street,\" for instance. It begins with just a heavy repetitive clunking, alongside incoming waves of synths and glitches, but it soon transforms into something reminiscent of a John Carpenter score the onedge tinkering gives the track a nice creepy bent. Then there's the tenminute ambient piece that appears out of the silence after the last track, which trades beats for a low rumbling barely audible, slowly shifting highpitched tones and a chorus of sopranos looped and layered upon one another. Or the beats which loiter aimlessly through the dark, questioning murk of drawnout chords of \"2nd Twelve.\" Small crackles linger behind each beat, like the smell of sulfur that remains even after a match goes out. Indeed, the beats themselves are what save Loess from falling in with a seemingly endless line of imitators. No mere drum machines here, the sounds themselves are rather unique. They appear to be lofi recordings of simple everyday sounds, garbled, chopped up and painstakingly molded into patterns. It's this vaguely organic feel that keeps me from pointing out that songs like \"Pleuston\" and \"Maple Cill\" sound, at times, an awful lot like something off the first Selected Ambient Works comp. But artists have always learned by stealing. And there has always been a distinction between those who are mere copycats and those who build upon the work of others by developing a style all their own. Loess falls clearly into the latter category. There are enough moments on Loess' selftitled debut to distinguish them from their inspirations enough ingenuity in the building blocks of the songs to prove that these guys are hardly Xerox artists. Give them some time to evolve, keep an open ear, and give in to the subtle rhythms. You'll be hearing great things from them in the future. "}