{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4777/homepage_large.8f2c9777.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Bill Morris","artist":"Lonesome Organist","title":"Forms and Follies","text":" Writing up an original review for any Lonesome Organist release might be best described as playing a solitary game of critical Taboo: it's instantly apparent that there exists a specific set of unavoidable descriptive clichés and overly pitched idiosyncrasies chaperoning all previous and current press for this band often due to an inability to creatively parallel the level of the phenomenon: the more unique the spectacle, the less inventive the appraisal. So, in honor of the tenth anniversary of the Milton Bradley game of terminological nono, I've drawn up a shortlist of words and terms to sidestep for the rest of this review. I will be given five words and phrases, along with ninety seconds on the timer. Start the clock... now. My buzzwords are (as determined by highest journalistic prevalence): multiinstrumentalist, novelty (act), vaudevillian, simultaneous (ly), and oneman.Forms and Follies is the third fulllength player recorded by Chicagoan Jeremy Jacobsen (better known as The Lonesome Organist) as well as his first release since the turn of the century. Though it's not at all uncommon for a solo artist to release material under a distinct bandname or even play all of the instruments on an album, it is slightly more atypical for the artist to play them all simul er, all at the same time, as does Mr. Jacobsen. For his latest release, he had as many as eight tracks available to him, which is considerably more than he had at his disposal for previous albums, but only rarely did he utilize more than a few. For several songs he played drums, guitar, keys and sang; all jointly. The formula alone is cause enough for concern and admittedly makes me a touch anxious. It's all fun and games until somebody gets hurt. The result is an eclectic, curious, seething mass of sound, sometimes delicate, often garbled and rough, and frequently meandering to the point of disenfranchisement. That he's a singular musical talent with a unique vision isn't debatable. The payoff, however, is. A large portion of the disc, though interesting and tastefully unconventional, is devoid of any real compulsion or atmospheric engagement, and is rendered a mere curiosity with multiple listens. Songs like \"The Multiplier\", a twominute, frenetic organdriven track, feel like thirty second interludes gone a minuteandahalf too long. In fact, much of the material on the disc feels a bit too much like filler. The album's more structurally cognizant moments, such as the jazzy, upbeat \"The Moped\", reminiscent of his earlier, more (comparatively) inhibited work with 5ive Style and Euphone, provide the strongest material. The above track is marked by a compelling series of tracklong drum rolls and fills and a frugal bassline, and is abetted by digressive but nifty keys and fulgent chimes. A few tracks have vocals, and two are actually sansinstrumentation altogether; Doowop tributes that hearken back to a time more suited to our anachronistic Lonesome Organist. Just as Les Miserables is far better served by the stage then as a cinematic vehicle for Claire Danes, The Lonesome Organist can be most appreciated in a live setting where his physical urgency and arresting compositions are best underscored. His onem, his, uh... his unaccompanied live performances have received widespread encomium and are said to be the best judge of his musical merit. Unfortunately, you can't burn visceral engrossment or artistic perspiration on to a compact disc, and for this, Forms and Follies suffers. "}