{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/480/homepage_large.99a8d64b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"August Born","title":"August Born","text":" Last year Six Organs of Admittance's Ben Chasny contributed liner notes for VHF's reissue of the early90s Japanese psychfolk rarity L's Holy Letters, in which he paid homage to the music and its creator, Hiroyuki Usui. And one didn't have to listen long to the crackled textures of Holy Letters' deeply evocative outsider folkblues to detect Usui's influence on Chasny's subsequent work. Since then, the two musicians have cultivated an extensive correspondence which has now culminated in the formation of August Born. Collaborating by way of tapes exchanged in the mail, August Born's debut album finds the duo attempting to overcome the barriers of language and distance to quarry their substantial expanses of musical and spiritual common ground. In addition to his multiinstrumental work as L, Usui has made wideranging experimental music with underground luminaries Keiji Haino in Fushitsusha and various members of Ghost in Marble Sheep. Here, however, August Born maintain a respectful simplicity in their partnership. Most of these tracks are constructed from spare, interwoven splinters of banjo, amp feedback, muffled percussion, and various found sounds in accompaniment to Chasny's distinctive fingerpicked guitars, while both musicians take turns trading blurred vocals. Usui's music is heavily steeped in rural American blues as evidenced by his spectral version of Blind Willie Johnson's \"Cold Was the Ground\" on Holy Letters and his playing here results in several performances that are as traditional as anything Chasny has previously put his hand to. And though the limitations of its recording process can make the album seem like a fragmentary sketchbook, it also contains in its depths glowing coals that could only have been sparked by the collision of such similarly highcharged, inspiriting talents. As is often the case with mailbased collaborations Christina Carter & Loren Connor's Meditations on the Ascension of Blind Joe Death, for instance listening to August Born's loose dialogue feels like eavesdropping on an intercepted cell phone conversation. Voices speak over one another, phrases are inadvertently interrupted, and promising leads not followed up. \"Birds & Sun & Clay\" sounds like a pleasant but uneventful outtake from Six Organs's School of the Flower, while on \"Song of the Dead\" the two musicians lightly paw around ideas, each perhaps too deferentially waiting for the other to make something happen. But then there are the moments that, with little advance warning, the duo manage to achieve offhanded heights of an enthralling symbiosis. \"More Dead Bird Blues\" grows out of Usui's incantatory vocal to become a weightless volley of skeletal guitar, gauzy voices and shimmering percussion, a hypnotic exchange that carries over to the following \"Last Breath of the Bird\", as if the two were reflecting beams of sunlight to one another via handheld mirrors. And as the album closes with the electric hum of \"A Lot Like You\" and the intimate guitar of \"You Will Be Warm\", it becomes increasingly difficult to distinguish one musician from the other, their individual voices gradually converging into the same ungrounded tongue, and leaving one with the hope that this proves to be merely the beginning of a long and mutually beneficial association. "}