{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4806/homepage_large.87ffe726.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Loscil","title":"Submers","text":" Ambient music is about the creation of aural environments, and one of the most popular constructions is the womb. The womb is the place where we all imagine ourselves at peace and feeling good. Your body floats in warm, liquid space, and your senses are at rest. If you could experience light in the womb, it would only be the dimmest fleshcolored glow. Maybe your folks pump the Raymond Scott records and the Mozart into your Mom's belly, but the only thing you hear are soft, indistinct noises run through a lowpass filter. A friend of mind used to drink cup after cup of TheraFlu when nursing a hangover. He claimed the medicine put a fiveinch thick layer of warm cotton between him and the world. And that's how I imagine the womb: A tunedout heaven perfect for dreaming. With Submers, Vancouverbased artist Loscil (Scott Morgan) practices the art of the aural womb. This is music without sharp edges. The synth textures are warm, deep and viscous as amniotic fluid, and like Wolfgang Voigt's legendary Gas project, Loscil knows that you can't live inside the body of another without hearing a distant heartbeat. So a delicate 4/4 thump drifts in on occasion to remind us of the source of this safe and wonderful place. Calling Submers \"The Best Album to Fall Asleep to in 2002\" (it came out late last year) might seem like a backhanded compliment, but this is seriously gorgeous stuff that just happens to be the right sort of thing for drifting into another consciousness.Submers has a concept: All of the tracks are named for submarines. And if \"womblike\" is one apt description for Submers, \"aquatic\" is another. In additional to sounding a bit like Gas, Loscil also reminds me of Japanese ambient collective Neina in his focus on textures so complicated and detailed they can pass for nature. The drones in \"Argonaut I\" are piled at least four layers high, enough to get lost in, as a glowing edge of higher pitched sound twists around something deeper and harder to fathom. \"Gymote\" adds the slightest wisp of static and gentle, almost belllike tones as rhythmic accompaniment, and then sends the whole thing on its way with a speedy, steady bass drum. \"Diable Martin\" has a similarly quick pace, but something about the distance of the thump makes tempo matter little. It still feels like a drone, even if the BMP is technically over 100. \"Diable Martin\" has a few other techno bits to it, a quivering synth sequence and light taps of percussion, though these elements don't disturb the reverie. But the delicate touches are what really make it. The unsteady drone in \"Resurgam\" is fragile as hot glass blown to its bursting point, such a beautiful sound that could possibly fall apart at any moment. \"Triton\" adds the slightest bit of tension and dub undercurrents, along with a ghost of an orchestral sweep, and though it seems less tied to the theme it's one of the best tracks here. Finally, \"Kursk\", a tribute to the lost Russian sub, ends the album on an ominous tone, with the kind of midbass cellolike drones that Stars of the Lid dream about. Then comes silence. It's time to open your eyes, walk slowly to the CD player, and press \"play\" again. "}