{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4807/homepage_large.d7a156a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Loscil","title":"First Narrows","text":" Scott Morgan travels a wellbeaten but lately ignored path as Loscil, eschewing the puton amorphousness of classicist and/or minimal ambient music in favor of the shortlived ambient techno sounds of the mid1990s. Willfully entrenched in the days of B12, Black Dog and Biosphere, his discography has, to this point, been a study in solipsism, and a fine one. His first definitive work, 2002's Submers, was a surprisingly excellent foray into a genre then prohibitively out of fashion; much like Burger/Ink's Las Vegas, or Boards of Canada's Music Has the Right to Children, Submers synthesized the most captivating elements of its medium, however late it was to the table. To this point, Loscil's straightforward tones and decaying drum loops haven't broken any new ground, and since the electronica spotlight tends to shine on novelty, his releases have quickly faded into the background. Although promoters trumpet First Narrows' live instrumentation (which you'll barely notice), and bizarrely claim its \"inexact\" loop cycles are somehow warmer or one gets the hint more credible than digital precision, what's come out the other end of Scott Morgan's software here is indistinguishable from earlier efforts. Particularly \"Sickbay\", which is an odd opening statement for a record that relies so heavily on creative evolution as a selling point; not only is it similar to Submers' \"Mute 3\", it's arguably inferior. The analog inputs (guitar, Fender Rhodes and cello) earmark the frequency response as you'd expect, lending a more referentially 1970s tone with their unwieldy and broad spectrum, but neither Loscil's ambitions nor his abilities have changed: First Narrows, on the whole, plays like Submers mixed through a cheaper set of headphones, full of scratches and crackling sinewaves (\"Lucy Dub\", \"Ema\"), bound together with patch cords. Yet at the album's core, the same distant tones moan on especially in the title track interrupted by the reverberating sonar blips Morgan's used as percussion from the start, making it hard to notice the subtly wound guitar and Rhodes lines; in most cases, his new toys are mixed tentatively, as tangential ambience, subservient to the persistent, nostalgic techno loops of Submers. Unsurprisingly, the most overtly analog pieces are the most exciting: When Morgan gives these new elements room to breathe, he's proportionately inspired, tasked with acclimating their uniqueness. And he rises to the challenge as First Narrows draws to a close, playing with a simple and sonorous Rhodes line for sevenplus minutes of \"Brittle\", an almost childlike callandresponse. There's sympathy in this dance bordering on literature, its chimes and counterpoint tones following a constantly expanding horizon outlined by drum loops and tremolo sky.First Narrows comes to a very fine point with \"Cloister\", by far Loscil's most ambitious composition to date. Relatively shocking in its nudity, Morgan allows an untreated cello into his sphere, unashamedly invoking Gavin Bryars' revered minimalist classic The Sinking of the Titanic underneath cutup, midrange Rhodes hits. Like the best morethanambient compositions, its superficially spikedriven pentameter, while beautiful, is mere architecture for the meditation beneath, the cello's undulating, pensive serenity proving that, regardless of Scott Morgan's efforts to rock the conceptual boat, Loscil still floats. "}