{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4819/homepage_large.18ce610c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Mirov","artist":"Love as Laughter","title":"Destination 2000","text":" It's all too easy to disparage the ironic retro tackiness of the title and album art me, I can't help thinking of all the millennium marketing schemes I encountered during the last months of 1999: tshirts and mugs emblazoned with \"010100,\" \"millennium clocks\" counting down the time to the new year, etc. Did anyone actually buy any of that crap? And for those who did, what did they do with it after January 1? I envision all these tshirts and mugs and clocks (now impotently blinking \"00:00:00\" for the remaining duration of their battery life) now taking up metric tons of landfill space. Thankfully, Destination 2000 has a slightly longer shelf life and doesn't deserve to be buried alongside the aforementioned merchandising disasters. As the title sort of implies, it's less a vision of the future as it is a document of the path Love as Laughter took to get there. With Destination 2000, Sam Jayne completes his transmogrification from scruffy indie rocker (as part of Lync) to eccentric bedroomridden lofi noisemaker (Love as Laughter's first album, The Greks Bring Gifts) to fulltime rock 'n' roller. With a newly beefedup lineup backing him, Jayne has refined the heavily classic rockinfluenced sound of the band's last album, #1 USA, sharpening the songwriting considerably and the production just a little. Oh, I'm sorry, did the words \"classic rock\" scare you away? Fear not, 'cause Love as Laughter gets their raw bluesbased riffs the way Hendrix and the Stones originally envisioned it. Just slather on a few layers of MC5style garagerock distortion and let Jayne's analog reverbed wail blow the whole sound up to stadium size, and you've got the slack boogie of \"On the Run.\" Elsewhere on the album, the band mixes their rock riffage in with some newwave accouterments; \"Stakes Avenue\" features stiff, chunky rhythms and vocoder effects that burst into sweeping bigrock choruses. Love as Laughter also try on a few other genres, with varying results; \"Stay Out of Jail\" pushes grungepunk adrenaline through crummy, overdriven amps borrowed from Mudhoney and Nirvana, and \"Margaritas\" is a welcome return to their shambling pop roots. But there's also the obligatory sloppy country hoedown (\"Statuette\") and the obligatory stark acoustic track (\"Demon Contacts\"), both of which seem out of place on Destination 2000. Surprisingly, though, Love as Laughter fits right in with the rash of rawkband signings over at Sub Pop (the Hellacopters, Zen Guerrilla, Murder City Devils, Gluecifer, Nebula, etc.), but Destination 2000 is more than just a series of threechord headbashers; it's a vibrant recreation of lofi rock 'n' roll that feels genuine, unforced, and thankfully free of nostalgic excesses and pouty posing. Sometimes, it's necessary to take a backwards glance at the past to get a feel for the future. "}