{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4824/homepage_large.4d783c90.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Love Life","title":"Here is Night, Brothers, Here the Birds Burn","text":" Siouxsie & The Banshees always felt forced to me; I loved a few of their singles, but too much of what they did reeked of precious poses and puton. The same goes ten times over for Bauhaus. The Birthday Party, on the other hand, offered true, captivating mania, which is what it takes if you want to pull off a theatrical vocalist. This is the aim of our stalwarts in Love Life, who come to us from bands as illustrious as Universal Order of Armageddon, and as embarrassing as Ann Arbor's mercifully unknown goth comedy troupe Jaks (seriously: fake blood capsules). Anyone familiar with the aforementioned late70s/early80s drama club knows what to expect within seconds of hearing this record. Simultaneously recalling the Banshees's most psychedelic period (A Kiss in the Dreamhouse), and stark, flailing early albums (The Scream, Join Hands), Love Life manages to resurrect a very unique sound, and to infuse a formidable modern confidence. Katrina Ford has a meatier, more impassioned wail than many of her likely inspirations (save PJ Harvey), and shows no restraint diving into her lyrics. A few of the dark scores courtesy of this seasoned band have all the gravity and claws of the Birthday Party's best work; Love Life shine on the establishing track the utterly Banshees \"Listen Loudly\" before tripping over the same sort of meandering, lengthy jam their heroes often filled records with (\"Montag\"). The group shows their mettle on track three of this record, a superb revival of the drama all 80s goth acts sought but could rarely summon. Like many of these recordings, its somehow full sound is forged from very few tracks, and it's this spare production that's the secret of their success: if you're going to employ reverb, you need to limit the number of instruments fighting for its enormous space in the mix. What \"Joy\" does, it does not only with genuine understanding and love for the genre it avails but its methods as well. You don't need backlighting to appreciate performances this convincing, and for a band operating in such a historically fashiondriven genre, it speaks volumes as to their creativity and maturity. I'm sure former members of the Murder City Devils weep in jealous fits whenever they hear it. Like the Jesus Lizard, however, Love Life's intensity is better appreciated in small doses as a counterpoint to the less intense records we often lazily enjoy. After the lessimpressive stop/start screaming of \"Be Kind to Me\", tolerance has built up, and most listeners will overlook \"Sweet Nocturne\", the other outstanding track on this overbearing record. A flawless impersonation of Siouxsie Sioux deteriorates into broken wails, offset by a small orchestra of strings; it showcases all the best moves the group employ, but is dragged down by circumstance. The latter half of Here is Night, Brothers, Here the Birds Burn shifts gears toward the Universal Order of Armageddon and Chrome/Gaunt chaos I expected in droves: both \"Good for Nothing\" and \"V\" have worthwhile passages to their credit, but the dirges run on far too long. Love Life's vice is its selfish enjoyment of performance, a sin common in the era it reveres. "}