{"label":" The Worker's Institute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/487/homepage_large.b3b1f837.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Amiina","title":"AminanimA EP","text":" If you've seen Sigur Rós live or heard their albums over the last few years, you're familiar with Amina. Acting as ancillary members, the female quartet's instrumental accompaniment is partially responsible for the overwhelming power of \\xC1gaetis Byrjun, ( ), and Takk..., and they help their fellow Icelanders' translate such pointed grandiosity in concert. Whether fraying bows in the midst of escalating string frenzies or tapping on xylophones while scurrying around in the shadows, the foursome's contributions are undoubtedly \"background\" but also quite necessary. Take away Sigur Rós' stereotypically male audacity the Edenagain vox and apocalypse crescendos and you're left with the sinewy foundations from which such crushing melodrama arises; you're left with Amina. Stripped of overstatement, this precious foursong debut EP from the new L.A.based Worker's Institute label fits into the Múmified notion of modern Icelandic pop while offering some subtle shading and shaping of that notion. All multiinstrumentalists, these four classically trained players tap into a sense of uncanny solace by way of precise phrasing and repetition throughout AminanimA. Utilizing traditional strings as well as a treasure trove of other statelysounding tools including glockenspiels, bells and a glassophone, the group conjures cleareyed sonic pastures that reward subtlety and reject crass adornment. \"Skakka\" is a soundtrack to a fairytale, but one that's decidedly Grimm; a crackling fire can be heard in the distance and Rumpelstiltskin's warped ramblings are almost palpable somewhere within the track's unsettling ambience. Melodies and countermelodies courtesy of several sprightly instruments cross over each other on \"Hemipode,\" which also features cooing vocals that only enhance its courteous gait. \"Fjarskanistan\" is the EP's most obvious Sigur Róslite moment with its longer running time and painstaking build from echoing chimes to echoing chimeswithsweeping strings, but it's still more muted than their pals' most subdued dramatics. There's an intrinsic beauty that courses through Amina's music and this introduction release enticingly summarizes it. AminanimA's cautious atmospherics can sound toothlessly pleasant at points, yet the group largely escape such Enyaisms by lacing these tracks with an entrenched emotional resonance and haunting austerity that whispers and creeps. Working within a gauzy milieu and largely without the directness of a human voice, the quartet manage to sidestep crass whimsy and create pinhole worlds ripe with modest mystery. "}