{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/488/homepage_large.5398f712.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"As Mercenárias","title":"The Beginning of the End of the World","text":" There's hardly a more romantic image in globalized rock: a quartet of journalism students in São Paulo, performing Sid Vicious covers and spewing sarcastic critiques of Figueiredo's presidency in clipped Portuguese. No wonder As MercexE1rias are largely responsible for the egostroking interest in Brazilian postpunk (as exemplified by the excellent comps The Sexual Life of the Savages and Não Wave). The group matured and vanished in the span of only six years and two albums, leaving a reputation analogous to that of the Pop Group or Kleenex: obscure and original subterraneans whose legacies were tarnished by their more popular successors.  Despite the band's recent notoriety, the MercexE1rias are perhaps unrepresentative of their native country's postpunk pantheon. First, they have less blatant allusions to funk and reggaeinflected pop melodies of the 1970s. While Gang 90 and Nau churned fluttery lambada kitsch into dingy contusions, the MercexE1rias abided by clockwork minimalism, as precise and sober as systems analysts. Likewise, the band generally eschewed samba and bossa nova rhythms in favor of a constrained percussive tension. Lead singer Rosália Munhoz was famously ignorant of Música Popular Brasileira and preferred the plastered rancor and aloof satire of the Raincoats, Joy Division, and PiL. The result is a distinctly sour and British amalgam of gloom, ire, and anxiety. Even the lyrics traffic in sloganeering cynicism (\"solitude is a fact!\"). Their first release toggles crazily between poetic abstraction (the existential gibberish on \"Me Perco\") and reflexive antiauthority populism (the anthemic preadolescence of \"Polícia\").The Beginning of the End of the World, the first fulllength easily available in the U.S., collects the MercexE1rias' 1986 debut, Cad\\xEA As Armas?, and half of the tracks from 1988's Trashland. While Armas may be more petulant than similar Brazilian records from the early '80s, it deliberately lacks the sheer dissonance often associated with its North American counterparts. In fact, guitarist Ana Machado owes more to stoner psych: The debut teems with laggard fuzz, shuffled drones and bruised metal. \"Pânico\" features sparkling surf reverb, and \"Loucos Sentimentos\" mutilates stammering guitars on an otherwise innocuous amateur session. Every song is under two minutes, and the band is clearly struggling to compress its excesses into palatable punk.Trashland is another story entirely: hifi, downbeat, and lathered in heavy globs of venom. There's less militant rage and juvenile apathy, and no further attempts to suppress the band's idiosyncrasies. Munhoz transforms her sterile yelp into incantational jazz. Mouthfuls of acid surf roll in the background. Automated vocals hex fiery keyboard clusters in EMIproduced clarity. On \"Há Dez Anos Passados\", the band is nearly overwhelmed by its quirks: demonic grinding, berserk bicycle horns, and snippets of Fair Warningera shredding. If it's truly a sign o' the times, one must assume São Paulo spent the decade imprisoning killers and clowns.  Sadly, World excises most of Trashland's more tender moments (\"Angelus,\" \"MatixEA\"), as though only frantic DFAinfluencing party jams were suitable for inclusion. The timing of the release is also suspect. The MercexE1rias, now grayed and reunited after a 16year hiatus, have been strutting through Brazil's TV studios in loopy leopardskin outfits. Considering the States' propensity for PanAmerican punk, I doubt we'll hear much about their impending tour and album. For now and until the Baltic nowave market takes off this is yet another admirably warped reflection of the North's most endearingly snobbish genre. "}