{"label":" BMG","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4866/homepage_large.12d689fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Luomo","title":"The Present Lover","text":" Identity can be a tricky quality to evaluate. Often, it's hard to tell who is the actual \"owner\" of the qualities in question. Example: if a jazz drummer with an interest in abstract, improvisational electronic music suddenly starts turning out smooth vocal house records then perhaps there's an expectation that he would be criticized. Is this an expectation of the audience? Of the artist to play down his own work? Of the \"critics\"? Maybe there's a question of the artist's intent or sincerity. Maybe the identifiable relationship the record has with all of the players in question supercedes the need to find links to the tried and true critical vices. Finland's Luomo is that artist who would be the focus of an identity crisis. Luomo (aka Vladislav Delay) offers very few easy answers. Having taken an interest in jazz (particularly the sprawling eccentricity of Miles Davis) from a very early age, he began his musical career attempting to make a go as a jazz drummer. Though still in his teens, he soon realized he wasn't going to make his real statement (or a living) in jazz, and gravitated to electronics. His first recordings retain the adventurous, improvised spirit of jazz, but come out like rather dry, experimental ambient. If he was well on the way to becoming a fullfledged IDM technician, it would be another one who would deemphasize the 'D' quotient. All the stranger, then, that he should make a startlingly adept transition to house on 2001's Vocalcity (his first release under the Luomo moniker). Stranger still that it was received with open arms from most anyone in the vicinity. Vocalcity's strange brew of clicks, cuts and ultrasuave female cooing was an impressive accomplishment for someone admittedly unfamiliar with the genre. What's more, it was the mark of someone apparently oblivious to what he was \"supposed\" to be doing, and the result is warm, (com)passionate music.The Present Lover continues the experiment, and in general improves on it. Luomo, in typically modest fashion, speaks of the \"panic\" he went through recording the vocals on Vocalcity, having never featured any on previous releases. It's a safe bet he isn't panicking now, as the singing here (both female and male) is as smooth as it comes. However, it's also reminiscent of thousands of faceless lounge and downtempo compilations featuring \"soulful divas\" and androgynous emoting and if that's a problem for you (you know who you are), The Present Lover might come on a tad strong. Still, it fits the cosmopolitan, deeply European tracks to a tee. Even if you've never set foot in a club, the lengthy, passive strains of tunes like \"Could Be Like This\" or the title track work just as well as pure trance (not the dance kind, er, though you could dance to it). From the beginning of the album, things don't unfold as they should. \"Visitor\" is a lush, beatless piece of pop impressionism. If I didn't know better, I'd say Luomo was doing a pretty good job of presenting the overreported sound of Scandinavia, what with its glacial momentum and tendency to replace all the rough edges with icy consonance. The lowkey chorus of female vocals proclaims, \"I doubt you wanna make me burn,\" and it is clearly more of a plea than a prediction. Throughout The Present Lover, passiveness and submission seem like attributes rather than easy targets. Likewise, on \"Cold Lately\", the female narrator (longtime Vladislav Delay collaborator AGF) inquires \"what makes you so cold at home?\" over nearglitch slowjam and deep, percolating bass as if the mere fact that she cared to ask would make everything better. As the tune progresses, her vocal is overrun by a series of computergenerated cuts and pops, but it hardly loses its vulnerability (and notice that oozing synth cluster in the background never went away). Several tracks are clearly suited for club play, and would probably work wonders for your party as it approaches its final hour. \"Talk in Danger\" plays up its midtempo, hihat intensive groove while AGF continually reassures you that she isn't trying to disappoint you, and goes on a lengthy tangent about how \"talking in danger\" helps her find her ability to trust. This kind of freeform narrative doesn't seem like it would work in any music related to pop, but Luomo's perpetually engaging track makes it seem perfectly natural. The title track features male vocals (likely provided by Delay himself), and a punchier beat. Where it aligns itself more closely to straightahead house via repetitive hooks and bouncy fouronthefloor, it also manages to slip in nonsequiturs like the bizarre, slinky synth solo about three minutes in. \"Shelter\" furthers the energetic feel, but again lapses into strangely formless structure as the vocal floats in and out of the mix, sometimes not seeming a part of the song at all. The bynow familiar female chorus offers something like a hook, but Delay's background in improvisation colors The Present Lover in unexpected ways. There are no resounding resolutions or triumphant cymbal swells here. There are no recapitulations of a verse or concessions to an obvious form. Just like a modern free music ensemble, Luomo makes his mark via an impact delivered over time and through the interaction (albeit selfimposed) and modification of the sounds at his disposal. There is a decent chance you'll glide right past this record if you've often found yourself at odds with house music. I certainly wasn't terribly enamored of the stuff coming into The Present Lover. But this is an easy album to recommend, largely due to it having an impact far beyond the dancefloor. Sometimes it just doesn't pay to hang onto old biases, and for now, I'm perfectly willing to leave this on repeat if you are. "}