{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4884/homepage_large.8f2ecfb6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Lowlights","title":"Lowlights","text":" As I understand it, in space, no one can hear you scream. Slide guitars, on the other hand, sound great. Earthbound as they usually are, country and blues lend themselves remarkably well to the atmosphere, set amongst the reverb and stars; witness Pink Floyd's \"A Pillow of Winds\" or Beechwood Sparks' \"Sweet Julie Ann\". These are just two of the bands that quickly spring to mind when Lowlights' selftitled debut drifts out of the speakers like a transmission from a drifting satellite. Another name one that flashes even brighter is Spiritualized, those masters of interstellar heartache who've lately given over to indigestible orchestral bloat, leaving behind a perfect vacancy for California's Lowlights to fill with their synthesis of Gram Parsons folk and regal, ionospheric psych. The album opens with a sweep of pure phase spacerock called \"In the Distance\", a slow descent overflowing with huge harmonies jerked earthward by dense clusters of distorted guitar. \"Wave Goodbye\" puts the brushes to the drumkit and the steel to the strings, but never comes down completely, floating a few miles up as bandleader Dameon Lee admonishes, \"Don't turn around/ Just wave goodbye.\" Generally, Lee sticks to narrating human emotion in his songs there's none of the drug damage of Spiritualized or bedsit philosophy of The Verve to distract from the heartache and desperation in his songs. Lowlights definitely have a sound/bandname synergy going on the gentle repetition of \"Brown Eyes\", with its lonely, echoing trumpet and weeping pedal steel is a great way to come down from a physically active day of mowing the lawn and assembling Swedish furniture. The band squeezes a lot of variation from a fairly limited sound palette, constantly shifting tempos and making little changes, like subtly subbing in a harpsichord for an acoustic guitar, while keeping the overarching sound full of cavernous echo and open space. Lee's voice has gravel enough to sound weighty even when cast in the album's zerogravity atmosphere, and he's well complemented by the silksmooth backing harmonies of Angela Brown. On the whisperquiet \"Wheelbarrow\", which features guest vocalist Brisa Roche backed only by a wandering Rhodes and a quivering Farfisa, Lowlights conjure some of Yo La Tengo's sparsest Georgia Hubley ballads, yet things close at a majestic crawl with \"How Does It Feel?\", a languid drift through the solar system topped by pining steel and lush, homespun folk harmonies. Thick electric guitar cuts in on the refrain, a false start that teases at a closing firestorm, but shuts down instead, bowing to the pastoral glow of the verses. It's an impressive debut, and Lowlights seem to have all the pieces in place to churn out at least a few more in the near future. They have a mastery of the texture that a record like this requires to pass as more than just an ambling experiment, and they've proven they have the ability to write more than one kind of song, which is something a lot of their peers simply can't do. They may not be doing anything terribly new, but their execution is beautiful, and sometimes that's more than enough. "}