{"label":" Cuneiform","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4887/homepage_large.aff970de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Larval","title":"Obedience","text":" Bill Brovold formed Larval in Detroit in 1996, just as the postrock boom was hitting its stride, and he actually has more claim on the scene than you might assume. After attending art school in New York, he spent five years in the 1980s playing with nowave progressive Rhys Chatham and performing on most of the experimental legend's largescale works, including 1987's Die Donnergotter. Brovold's own music takes an approach of massed guitars and blunt ambience that's similar to Chatham's, but over the course of four albums with Larval appears to be rooted in something much more straightforward: rock. Unlike virtually all the postrock bands springing up three years in debt to Neu!, Brian Eno, and Miles Davis' In a Silent Way, Larval and Brovold opt for volumes suited for actual guitar players and beats Crazy Horse could love. It's not that their music is simple, but it's hardly as intimidating as their pedigree (avanticon John Zorn is one of Larval's biggest fans, and released their first album as well as Brovold's 2001 solo album) might lead you to believe. \"Something Terrible is About to Happen\" wheezes by like a hobbled steamboat in brown, filmy water. Brovold has a knack for sickly textures, even when his band nudges the rock pedal and while I wouldn't say any of the tracks on Obedience are necessarily ugly, most of them revel in an earthy homeliness. Here, Kurt Zimmerman's violin repeats a simple, rhythmic figure that wouldn't sound out of place opening one of Godspeed's signature epics and indeed, the muffled drone of cello and guitar are very reminiscent of those Canadian radicals. \"Her Last Good Day\" also trades muscle for grace, but does away with dread. Chiming, majorchord guitar fills out most of the mix with sunny, sentimental shimmer while Marko Smith's slightly offkilter drumming paints a different, almost tragicomic picture. Here more than anywhere else on the record, it's plainly evident that Larval would rather lend a more human presence to experimental rock than dazzle with electronic textures and virtuosic playing. Where Larval differ from a band like Tortoise (to whom they could be thought of as a distant, haggard uncle) is in their adherence to symphonic dynamics that predate most 90soriginated postrock. Even though \"Something Terrible\" emphasizes the more hypnotic and repetitive aspects of their sound, Larval are more closely related to the postapocalyptic impressionism of King Crimson (see \"The Talking Drum\") than the krautrock and minimalism strategies of newer bands. The good news for anyone who isn't quite ready to leap into the prog realm is that this band completely eschew solos, or any other flashy display of instrumental might. Like Rhys Chatham and Glenn Branca, Larval are only too willing to sacrifice the glory of the individual for a tightly wound whole. My gripe with Obedience isn't really as much the music as it is the production, which doesn't always give these guys a fighting chance in an increasingly electronic realm. For people used to the relatively explosive (or alternately, pristine) sound of new avantrock, Larval could sound on the quaint side or worse, flat. Nevertheless, perhaps through the power of persistence (the climax of \"One Day I Just Kept on Walking\" is fairly earthshaking), they come out well. Here's hoping they're on the radar for folks looking for ambience with a spikier approach. "}