{"label":" Sutro","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/491/homepage_large.dbae5485.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Awesome New Republic","title":"ANR So Far","text":" They have the worst name since Ninja High School. They recorded half of this album in a bedroom. And they appropriate dance and pop music like smarmy indie kids, grabbing whatever they want and singing in a crooning falsetto lyrics that barely take themselves seriously. Every warning light went off when I started listening to Awesome New Republic, and yet I can't stop playing the album, which not only lives up to its own jokes and conceits but delivers some of contemporary indie rock's best neurotic party tracks. A onetime quintet now pared down to two guys, Miamibased ANR build most of their songs on Brian Robertson's keys and drum machines and MichaelJohn Hancock's vocals. They're an indie rock band at heart, but my bloglish isn't deep enough to categorize everything they're doing, from electro and funk, to the freak folknodding sparse harp and acoustic guitar on \"Dirge\". And \"Kill South Beach Dead\" is a punk anthem sung by grownups, and probably closer to how these guys sounded when they were pissedoff Miami teens: \"Roll deep and kill South Beach dead/ Drop out of magnet school/ Sign up for special ed.\" The lyrics are smarmy jokes just barely pulled off. Sensitive slow dance song \"Going Down\" turns out to be about blow jobs \"My eyes may dart around the room/ But I just want to fill your mouth\" and it namechecks Barack Obama, just because it feels so right. But sometimes the juxtaposition of crass and serious lyrics come off as nighbrilliant, or at least brilliantly uncomfortable, like when Hancock's admiring the csection scar on his married lover and tells her it gave him \"an erection about near the strength of my arm.\" I don't know where Hancock's coming from as a singer. Are his bouts of comic crudeness supposed to undercut the smooth crooning sex machine persona that he sometimes adopts? Or is it just random? He has the pipes to carry these songs, even if sometimes you can still hear a drunk indie kid who took a bet to sing \"Cry Me a River\" at a karaoke night, and realized he could pull it off. Right now, he's something like a Har Mar Superstar with ideas, perspective, and a brain, but he could probably take more lessons from Bryan Ferry.  But musically, ANR So Far is fully formed and totally enjoyable, pulling off every lurch from genre to genre. It's loaded with great moments, from \"Going Down\"'s sentimental keyboard line to the way the horns erupt like a flock of birds in the precoital bliss of \"The Clap\". I'm a sucker for a record where you can hear the band throw a hundred random ideas into a pile and watch every one fall into place. To paraphrase their song, this debut comes from magnet school and special ed, but they strike the right balance between the two.  "}