{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4892/homepage_large.83e021a0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Lovely Midget","title":"North Head","text":" Since 1995, New Zealander Rachel Shearer has created opaque, gurgling compositions under the wellchosen name Lovely Midget. Her music career began with two selfreleased CDs which soon caught the ear of Sonic Youth's Thurston Moore, who promptly reissued her Sings the Lost Chord EP as a 10inch on his Ecstatic Peace! label. Her first proper album followed in 2002 on Corpus Hermeticum. Prior to her largely solo project, she played in the Xpresswaysanctioned Angelhead (with Michael Morley of the legendary Wreck Small Speakers on Expensive Stereos, Dead C, Gate, et al.) and the allgirl rock quartet Queen Meanie Puss, who released singles on Flying Nun and Siltbreeze. Later, she worked on sound design for feature films and the cartoonish bluster of syndicated television, adding to her production arsenal. And now there's North Head, a dense sonic landscape brimming with interwoven, minute abstractions. A distillation of two years worth of recording, the gothictinged North Head resembles the incidental crumble of fellow New Zealander Peter Jefferies, especially the kitchensink aura of his Last Great Challenge in a Dull World or Michael Morley's noisy, protracted solo work with Gate. The influence of some nonNew Zealanders is detectable as well: electronic music pioneer and composer Pauline Oliveros' notions of deep listening are also apparent in Shearer's sustained interweaving of keyboards, guitar, flute, vocals, and digital processing. Moments of North Head invoke a tenser, more saturated take on Primordial Lift, a field of long notes bolstered by Oliveros' accordion, electronics, and vocals; fattened with the electronic violin of Tony Conrad, the harmonium of David Grubbs, and a sea of cellos and low frequency oscillations. In this vein, the album's opening title track floats by in a deep freeze. Not as successful as some of the other pieces, it hinges awkwardly on the jarring sound of distant female voices. Not singing so much as vocalizing, these women were recorded in caves and their echoing shouts remain below the level of the music. A beautiful track in some respects, the toopronounced humanity removes the aura of the more mysterious, organically anonymous works. Likewise, \"Dolphin\" ends the album abruptly, with the sound of voices sped and slowed, intermixed with string reverb, picking, scraping. Bolstering and assisting the title track, though, is any accompanying visual loop of falling snow and falling pedals. Shearer filmed these frenetic landscapes then resampled and looped them, exploiting generation loss and magnifying the grain of both the water, trees, and the medium itself. Throughout the album this swarm of multilayered sonic information remains fairly continuous. The best tracks are positioned within a foreshortened field: layers appear homogenous but drip nuance. \"Swollen Dusk\" and \"Heavy Weather\" gloriously sound every bit their namesake. \"Squall\" is an undulating muffle, a submerged microphone enacting a nautical drift. Its fog and distant ghosts bring to mind Nurse with Wound's Salt Marie Celeste, but remain more interior, a frozen chunk of claustrophobia, the inside of an anchor. \"Fading\" locates a similar tension, but explores outwardly with guitars that fly off like violins whittling the air. These tones are supported by the vaguest impression of intermittent percussion. Here, I thought of a microphone charting the decomposition of dry ice or, quite differently, bugs caught alive in amber attempting a strenuous escape. On North Head, the occasional fragment dislodges itself from the pack and begs for your attention, but then it's gone. Unfortunately, the seven tracks are relatively brief. Ranging from three to seven and a half minutes, these environments warrant a lengthier stay; then the teeming landscapes could then last as long as they demand, clattering rivers pushing towards a distant location, endless. "}