{"label":" Now Again","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4895/homepage_large.8ed3afc2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hartley Goldstein","artist":"L.A. Carnival","title":"Pose a Question","text":" Does there exist a substratum of the musical elite more hermetic than hiphop's own brand of nomad, the cratedigger? Equal parts obsessive, archivist, collector and artist, the cratedigger's lifeconsuming quest for the perfect breakbeat(s) magically transforms one's local Yellow Pages into a record collector's Holy Grail; while an individual's basement can be a vinyladdict's utopia where timeforgotten funk manna patiently awaits discovery. The collectors are notoriously obsessive, eternally flipping through abandoned boxes to locate (and mine the fuck out of) that one brilliant twelvesecond clip. And then there are folks like those mad Los Angelino Bboys behind Stones Throw Records namely Peanut Butter Wolf, Madlib, and Egon for whom sampling isn't enough: these guys actually go to the trouble of remastering and releasing these outofprint obscurities on compact disc in what could only be described as a deranged act of beatcrazed taboo. Stones Throw has been opening hiphop listeners' bluntaddled minds for some time now; stretching the conceptions of \"digging\" culture seems only a natural progression for the marquee label. Any single track off of 2001's archivist funk odyssey, The Funky 16 Corners, could be considered a proverbial wetdream for DJs far and wide. And last year's reissue of Stark Reality's Now, through its solid selection of protofunk grooves, not only exposed the blueprint for Madlib's trademark love affair with the vibes, but also saved plenty of samplehungry tastemakers from shelling out hundreds on eBay for the überrare vinyl original. The strongest of these inspired reissues yet, however, is the unabashedly multiracial, Omahabred muttfunk troupe The L.A. Carnival's early 70s release, Pose a Question. That the band's frontman, drummer and chief songwriter Lester Abrams is not a legendary icon of American funk is probably due somewhat to locale: raised in the racially segregated Omaha of the 60s with roots in both Native and Black American cultures, Abrams' music is imbued with a distinctly American conflation of funk, jazz and soul that drops overtly political overtones atop feverish, percussionheavy grooves. Abrams' incendiary drum lines steal the show on almost every number; cymbals swing effortlessly as barrages of snare hits frenetically pop like ricocheting pinballs. What comes to identify Pose a Question, though, is Abrams' method of channeling his multiethnic American heritage through the genredefying exuberance of his tunes. By having such movement within each number and throughout the sequence of the entire record (\"Blind Man\" is straight Motown Soul, while \"Ron's Tune\" is a bossafunk chillout), The L.A. Carnival flaunt their diversity; the ultimate act of aesthetic revolt in the face of a blackandwhite America clinging to its ideological labels and racial stereotypes. On the album's opener, \"Flyin'\", Ron Cooley's wiry guitar licks melt over a steady laconic funk bop, while Rick Chudacoff's electric bass notes pounce on the off beats before the chorus breaks in with the calming soul twinkle of a Rhodes piano motif. While on the album's showstopper, \"7 Step to Nowhere\", rolling percussion and jerky guitar chords hold the awkward 7/4 time signature together, only for the inherent calm of a lone jazz sax solo to coolout the bridge section. While the arrangements on Pose a Question should undoubtedly break smiles across DJs' faces and get funk fanatics' heads' nodding, the lyrical content of most of these numbers sounds irrepressibly derivative of 60s idealism. In an age where even irony is coming under the gun, it's hard to take a song titled \"We Need Peace and Love\" seriously particularly when those are the number's only lyrics. Furthermore, the album's title track, with lyrics about the black \"brotha man,\" and laughably simplistic questions like, \"Can we all live together one by one,\" seem rather banal when heard in today's context. Of course, you can't fault a record for sounding like a product of its time (even if you can champion one that was ahead of it), and The L.A. Carnival's sweetascanbe, threepart vocal harmonies (courtesy of Leslie Smith, Arno Lucas and Abrams) generally help the revolution go down easy for even the most jaded listener. "}