{"label":" Lakeshore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4909/homepage_large.00c7bdd0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Legends","title":"Up Against The Legends","text":" A quick Google search for Up Against The Legends only reveals how little is out there on the upstart Swedish nonet The Legends. The few early online reviews of the group's debut, Up Against The Legends, reveal none of the band members' names, and websites for their American and European labels are similarly mum on the group's background. This we know: There are nine individual Legends (although some sources and photographs claim only eight). The band formed in early 2003. They had a gig opening for Stockholmbased Radio Dept. before they even had a committed lineup. The principle players Johan Angeråld of Club 8 may or may not be among them recruited friends, and friends of friends, some of whom had no musical experience and had to learn to play their instruments. It's unclear which band members, how many, and which instruments; there's a big difference between teaching yourself guitar or drums and learning tambourine. Obviously, The Legends are a conceptdriven band. The group was born as an idea that had to be fleshed out with actual flesh, so taking the name The Legends is apparently not an act of Hiveslike audacity, nor does it appear to be a forwardlooking mission statement. Hiding behind their collective identity and withholding biographical information and even their individual names, The Legends live up to that name in the most mythological sense of the word. Even the pictures of the musicians on the album cover are collages, rendering them literally as cardboard cutouts. Whatever ends this strategy serves are debatable, but The Legends' rigorous anonymity, however suspicious, would seem to blur into the music, at least superficially. Up Against The Legends traffics in a brand of retrominded indie pop that borrows just enough from current garagerock trends to put movement in the music, but not enough to garner any meaningful comparisons to fellow Swedes like The Hives or Sahara Hotnights. They're more beholden to The Jesus & Mary Chain's fuzzedout style and Phil Spector's Wall of Sound than to Nuggets or The Stooges. Still, given these sketchy outlines, their debut should be at best merely forgettable and at worst actively bad. After all, pop doesn't always reward the DIY ethic the way punk does. And songs like \"There and Back Again\" and \"Trouble Loves Me\", on first listen, do sound too trendy and maybe a little generic the product of genre formula rather than musical imagination. The atmosphere of \"When the Day Is Done\" (featured on the Wicker Park soundtrack) sounds too studied to be as chilly as intended. Seemingly handicapped, Up Against The Legends could have been lost in this year's overflow of surprisingly good albums by likeminded artists like The Concretes, Jens Lekman, Camera Obscura, and Saturday Looks Good to Me. The first impression is that of an acceptable, if not stellar, example of a particular style maybe a high 6 on the Pitchfork rating scale. So then, what separates it from the pack? Perhaps it's due to Up Against The Legends incredible resilience: It grows on you like ivy. With each subsequent listen, the album reveals more and more of itself through small, unexpected flourishes of sound that gradually accrue more than enough personality to fill the bandshaped hole.Up Against The Legends is heavily layered with hand claps, tambourines, softfocus background vocals, and melodies that never seem to go where you might expect. Someone's subtle, pulsing organ races alongside someone else's onenote bassline throughout \"There and Back Again\", adding a nice tension to the 50sromantic guitar riff and the pleading, static vocals. Whoever's playing the acoustic guitar theme on \"When the Day Is Done\" drops in a few extra notes at the end of each line, turning the melody back on itself. Coupled with lyrics that describe the aftermath of a petty romantic argument, that small filigree drops the temperature a degree with each listen and the album is crammed with similar enlivening flourishes.Up Against The Legends is that rare pop album that doesn't immediately pop: It's less concerned with the present than with the future. And who knows? Perhaps whatever success attends this album's release will prompt the individual Legends to leave their hiding places and introduce themselves to their listeners. But then, who The Legends are is so much less important than what their debut is: a solid, surprising album whose rewards are commensurate with the time you spend with it. "}