{"label":" Playhouse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4911/homepage_large.045d1af7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Losoul","title":"Getting Even","text":" Clicks are great but perhaps unsurprisingly clickedout fulllengths can grow tiresome. So sign the times: many microhouse producers are going after broader sounds (cf Ricardo Villalobos' Alcachofa, Michael Mayer's Touch), bigger hooks (cf Luomo's The Present Lover, Matthew Dear's Leave Luck To Heaven) or, in one impressive recent case, a highstakes aversion to both hooks and variety (Villalobos' The Au Harem D'Archimede). Losoul's Peter Kremeier has served consistently good, highandwide smorgasboard house for years, but upon release much of it fell victim to anachronism. His early 12inches and 2000 fulllength debut Belong were minimal enough to put him under the microhouse tent alongside much of the rest of Germany, but their warm strains of funk and soul undermined a lot of his trendy appeal, casting Losoul as a mere dilletante in the face of the strict clickers on Perlon and Kompakt. Over the past four years, Kremeier's sensibilities haven't changed very much but given the genre's current climate of flirtation with disco and even trance, Losoul's followup album Getting Even comes off ironically enough as superstrict, textbook microhouse. Tracks like \"Railrude\", \"Brain Of Glass\", \"Insula\", and \"Matchbox\" are seven and eightminute monsters with no hurry or interest in gimmickry. Instead, Losoul squeezes every bit of energy out of his tight loops with the most insignificant of permutations. If anything, Losoul's funk and soul fetish has reconfigured itself into his instrumentation: dubby whiplashes of bass swoop in and out of tracks, and cutesy FisherPrice piano synth heat Getting Even with nostalgic if not kitschy flickers of color. Vocal tracks have always been hitormiss for Losoul, and the ones on Getting Even do nothing to change his track record. The gothschaffel \"Warrior (Rock)\" grandly stomps with trashy reverb and cloggedartery guitar distortion, but the techyditty \"You Know\" sounds boxed, and the drugged out heroin'sback vocals on closer \"Blood Sample\" ruin the song's loopfindingjazz cool down. Not to spite Losoul's inavacuum persona, but Getting Even's best moments are when he's most trendy: \"Tango Acido\" is italodisco with a preRitalin attention span and the most melodically charged nonmelody I've heard in a while. Metalhouse cruncher \"Brain Of Glass\" could have been on the latest Speicher compilation, offering an answer to an old question of mine: What would it sound like if Kraftwerk covered Planet Funk's \"The Switch\"?Getting Even is hardly a step back from Belong everything here is much tighter, and as a whole the release feels much more focused but as mere fancy, I can't help but wonder how Losoul would figure into the current techhouse pantheon had he released Getting Even four years ago and Belong this past September. Both are strong albums, but more suggestively, both are telling of how little \"strong album\" can mean to listeners caught up in the latest trend. "}