{"label":" Maple / Limblifter","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/4912/homepage_large.3524b46d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"Limblifter","title":"In/Out","text":" It has been four years since Ryan Dahle released new material with Limblifter; in that time, his band has undergone some major personnel changes. Most notably, his brother, drummer and cofounder Kurt Dahle, left in 2001 to join the starstudded Vancouver pop juggernaut New Pornographers. The Dahle brothers also worked together in the 90s pop group Age of Electric, so the disintegration of their longtime partnership could have presaged a noticeable shift in quality and content. But while In/Out is an uneven Limblifter release, its strongest moments suggest that neither the extended recording absence nor Dahle's departure has impeded the band. Which isn't to say that Kurt's absence is entirely inconspicuous. The album's most glaring flaw is Burento Follett's weaker, more anonymous drumming, which follows his predecessor's simple, effective pop style but lacks a necessary propulsive energy. Many of these songs were initially crafted around drum loops, and the technique shows Dahle opts for a mechanical, nondescript rhythm section to back his more interesting vocal melodies and arrangements. Opener \"Get Money\" is the first of three forays into MOR rock radio fare, but it's redeemed by Dahle's knack for melody and compositional variation which is highlighted by an interesting postpunk section. \"Perfect Day to Disappear\" suffers from a blander, more repetitive approach, and \"Fiercely CoDependent\" adds little to the formula established by the previous tracks, coasting on a standardissue circular guitar riff. Though I/O is frontloaded with potential singles, Dahle's most interesting material appears in the album's latter half. \"Drug Induced\" layers a hazy guitar line over a Supertramp Wurlitzer foundation, veiling Dahle's bizarrely graphic lyrical imagery it's hard to imagine any context in which the line \"I'm gonna stop whoring from endorphins to the orphans of abortion\" wouldn't stick out like a sore thumb, but its concealment almost subliminally strengthens the track. \"Alarm Bells\" makes excellent use of understated string accompaniment, and the comparably gritty, garageoriented \"On the Moon\" almost breaks though the sterility of the album's otherwise spotless production. The album's weakest moments such as the awkward freeassociation rocker \"Jumbo Jet Headache\" aren't dealbreakers, but Limblifter would benefit from the diversity that has characterized Kurt's work with New Pornographers. Limblifter too often rely on rigid, conventional pop structures designed to accentuate Dahle's inventive melodies, sacrificing the complexity hinted at in the album's strongest tracks. As a comeback from an extended hiatus, I/O reestablishes Limblifter as a skilled pop ensemble, but the band hasn't quite reclaimed the kind of energy and spontaneity that has defined their best work. "}