{"label":" Melodic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4913/homepage_large.8742bf1f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"L. Pierre","title":"Touchpool","text":" For a guy whose career has seemed to be an extended chronicle of overcast ennui and sordid, wrylyobserved time wastage, Arab Strap's Aidan Moffat has managed to be a rather productive chap. In addition to the Strap's umpteen releases, in 2002 Moffat also introduced his solo project Lucky Pierre, debuting with the entrancing Hypnogogia album. In this alter ego (whose name has since been shortened to the more polite L Pierre) Moffat creates deeply chilled, evocative instrumentals utilizing little more than manipulated loops of scratchy orchestral samples and languid programmed beats. But despite the humbleness of these tools, Hypnogogia managed to wordlessly plumb the same murky depths of emotion that Moffat explores behind the mic at his regular gig, which isn't bad considering that he reportedly first created the album to help put himself to sleep.Touchpool picks up where Hypnogogia nodded off, with the vibrant strings of opener \"Crush\" inviting listeners back under the blankets. While its predecessor was recorded in dribs and drabs over a period of years, all of the tracks here were conceived and recorded as one unified piece, giving Touchpool a more dynamic, thoughtful structure. Also helping to stir these waters is the strategic addition of live instrumentation to several tracks. Moffat's Arab Strap partner Malcolm Middleton provides guitar and bass, giving the lazy shimmer of \"Baby Breeze\" a hypnotic shoegaze swirl. And Dave McGowan's lilting pedal steel lends \"Jim Dodge Dines at the Penguin Café\" an exotic, Morriconegonetropical flavor as his playing glides effortlessly from wideopen prairie C&W; to Hawaiianinflected palm tree sway. Other highlights include \"Velbon\", which gently stretches a sample of Beethoven's \"Pathetique\" Piano Sonata to its ambient limits (its title is a mashup of Ludwig Van's initials and Brian Eno's last name) and the epic closer \"Total Horizontal\", the serenity of which is enhanced by Allan Wylie's melodious trumpet contributions. In fact if there's a major complaint to be leveled against Touchpool it's that it perhaps contains an overabundance of such serenity. Moffat's lotech, limpid beats can occasionally seem like something of an afterthought, and there's certainly little here more uptempo than the BPM at which you might sip a glass of topshelf whiskey. However, if you've been searching for companionship during those sleepless, afterhour vigils for the approaching dawn, L Pierre has here kindly supplied a handsome flock of sheep for you to count. "}