{"label":" Orange Twin","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4915/homepage_large.7234d27b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Late B.P. Helium","title":"Amok","text":" Listening to The Late BP Helium's debut album Amok can be a lot like watching someone sing into a hairbrush in front of the mirror. That particular someone knows all the words and all the vocals and can hit every chord on air guitar, but despite the exuberance and sincerity of the performance, it's never more than mimicry spiked with the narcissistic thrill of playing the rock star. Similarly, Amok is more about imitation than innovation. The Late BP Helium is neither dead nor related in any way to British Petroleum; instead, it's a pseudonym for Bryan Poole, a veteran of Georgiabased bands Elf Power, Great Lakes, and Of Montreal. Poole's debut fulllength, which follows the Kumquat Mae EP, is the work of an artist enamored with his own musical forebears 70s rock and pop giants like T. Rex and Cheap Trick, as well as Pavement and just about every Elephant 6 band you could name. Wearing his influences on his sleeve isn't necessarily a crime, but he holds too much reverence for his source material, so there's more of Marc Bolan and Bryan Ferry on Amok than of Poole himself. Even if there isn't much here that you haven't already heard on Electric Warrior, In Color, or even The Discovery of a World Inside the Moone, Poole is having a blast on these 11 songs. \"Belief System Derailment Screnario\" trips along herkyjerky, driven by a saxophone groove that bridges the considerable gap between Roxy Music and XRay Spex. \"Candy for Everyone\" is a concentrated T. Rex groove complete with a kazoo solo and the album's weakest melody. \"The Emperor's Drone\", which serves as a midalbum intermission, borrows its meditative atmosphere from Can and Kraftwerk. And on \"Curse of the Trial\" Poole sounds almost exactly like S&E;era Stephen Malkmus as his makeshift backing band drums up a tight indiepop hook.Amok is at its best when Poole steps out from behind the pseudonym and throws some surprises into the mix. If such occurrences are few and far between, they still redeem the album somewhat. \"The Ballad of Johnny Rad\" takes a break from its propulsive 70s pop charge to indulge a 50sstyle guitar solo that morphs into Beach Boys harmonies before sliding right back into its signature hook, neatly summarizing three decades of pop music in only a few seconds. The album's best track, \"They Broke the Speed of Light\", ends with a lengthy coda that grows more exuberant and exciting as it threatens to live up to the song's title. This moment, more than any other, hints at the depths of Poole's pop savvy, if only he weren't so starstruck. "}