{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/494/homepage_large.ecc49519.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Arctic Monkeys","title":"Who the Fuck Are Arctic Monkeys? EP","text":" Fivesong EP Who the Fuck Are Arctic Monkeys? is the English quartet's first new release since it became the year's mosttalkedband and, oh dear, it's largely about dealing with sudden fame and its unfortunate consequences the obligations of touring, the demands of fans, the inevitability of backlash. This is nothing new for the Monkeys \"The View From the Afternoon\" kicks off their debut LP with a warning that \"Anticipation has a habit to set you up/ For disappointment in evening entertainment,\" and tellingly that's the Whatever People Say I Am... track featured here. Thesis statement laid out, half of Who the Fuck's new tracks are less about the experience of being young and bored and smartly observant, the combination that, to date, has colored their best tracks, but about the experience of being the Arctic Monkeys themselves still young, sometimes bored, but their vision now limited to a tour itinerary or press clippings, and unable to successfully articulate why that's so frustrating. For the listener, it's easy to spot the chief problem: Songs about the need and drive to become rock and roll stars are more powerful and interesting than the ones about the experience of being a rock and roll star just ask Noel Gallagher. Arctic Monkeys singer and lyricist Alex Turner an expressive storyteller with a keen eye for detail and a deceptively sly wit seems wellequipped to navigate the divide between talking as one of the kids and talking to the kids, so perhaps his stumbles are more a shellshocked response to the speed in which they gained their fame than a fundamental flaw. The EP's defensive title track comes across as a poor decision, a dispatch from the other side of the velvet rope that moves between communicating directly with their fans (\"Your heroes aren't what they seem/ When you've been where we've been\") to dismissing johnnycomelatelys to admitted bouts of paranoia. The stick to your guns/last gang in town tone of the thing is admirable lord knows, rock could use a bit of swagger but it has a bit of a \"famous last words\" quality to it, reading like that \"Declaration of Principles\" that came back to bite Charles Foster Kane in the ass. \"Despair in the Departure Lounge\" is about, you guessed it, missing your girl when you're on the road. And sure, it's a cliché, but it eventually unfolds as an unexpected gesture from a lyricist who's often guarded, reserving his empathy for his characters (and, on \"A Certain Romance\", for his couldbe enemies) and putting up a front with regards to himself. The moment when the song redeems its cookiecutter nature is its third verse, and it hits not because of what Turner says but how he says it, slowing his voice into a wobbly quiver that mimics both the haze of travel and the hallucinatory nature of the lyric (\"Yesterday, I saw a girl/ Who looked like someone you might knock about with/ And almost shouted\"). It's reminiscent of the aforementioned Gallagher's exhausted solo acoustic turn on Oasis Bside \"Talk Tonight\". The other two new tracks are a thirdtier character sketch (\"Cigarette Smoker Fiona\") and an understated ballad (\"No Buses\"), with the latter serving as the record's grower and most thoroughly satisfying track. So, more a reiteration of their mission statement than a new record, the hint of ferociousness and fight on the title track is a positive sign; that the band feels backed into a corner by the manner and speed in which it gained fame isn't. It would be churlish and archaic to insist in 2006 that bands drive around in a van for x number of months in order to \"earn\" success when they can efficiently and quickly cover the distance of the globe with a single mp3. (Gnarls Barkley, the UK market's other recent digitalage sensation, presumably get a free pass because they're industry vets.) If people already have their knives out for the Arctic Monkeys, the band would do best to ignore them and move on rather than address the issue itself in song. After all, the surest way to deflect backlash is to make good music. "}