{"label":" Soft Abuse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4920/homepage_large.ed7bca03.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Langtry","title":"As Upon the Road Thereto","text":" Patrick McKinney isn't a household name, but many people who read this site know who he is or at least what he sounds like from his work with Sam Beam's Iron & Wine. For his first outing as Langtry, McKinney straps on his acoustic guitar and takes off on a 45minute journey through the backwoods and waterways of America, nodding to such familiar signposts as John Fahey, Leo Kottke, and Robbie Basho. McKinney experiments with various tunings, and seems particularly fond of dropped tunings that give him a guttural lowend he can hammer on in his most percussive passages. \"The Ballad of Painless Parker\" makes striking use of this technique with a flurry of bigvoiced, crashing chords. These compositions don't like to sit still, and McKinney maintains an impressive balancing act of kinetic motion and searching melody, often feeding one with the other. The nineminute \"Chasleen, You Better Run to Catch That Train\" is a good example of this, creating melodic sparks from an inferno of rapidly shifting chords before settling down to develop the themes sketched out in the initial torrent. The album's slower moments like those in the middle of \"Chasleen\" tend to be its least exciting, and though McKinney's technical proficiency is breathtaking, he often sounds too sparse or melodically meager. Still, such misgivings are forgivable in light of an exhilarating rag like \"Hobojangle\", a song that feels like the ghosts of dozens of itinerant bluesmen bursting back into our world. It's the best of McKinney's compositions and one that keeps the Takoma spirit alive as well as any I've heard. It's not easy to make one acoustic instrument engaging for a whole record, but Langtry has managed to do it, taking his place alongside contemporary guitar explorers such as Stephen BashoJunghans, Shawn Persinger, and M. Ward. "}