{"label":" Burning Heart","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4930/homepage_large.87b97555.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"The Lost Patrol Band","title":"The Lost Patrol Band","text":" For most of the 1990s, Dennis Lyxén fronted Refused, a band that released several albums of hardcorebynumbers before throwing the scene for a loop with 1998's The Shape of Punk to Come. That record was one of the freshest, most unique statements the punk or hardcore scene had seen in years, and it brought on a great deal of disappointment when the band disbanded almost immediately afterward. Lyxén wasted little time before returning with The (International) Noise Conspiracy, and although it's worth giving him credit for trying something new rather than simply recycling his old band's style, this new project retained little of the excitement and fire that he'd so recently shown. The (International) Noise Conspiracy have continued to release albums, slowly growing in popularity, and they even scored involvement from big names like Rick Rubin, Benmont Tench, and Billy Preston on their most recent effort, 2004's Armed Love. But, much like Refused's early work, the band suffers from being too derivative. Their garage rock'n'soul sounds too meticulous, too calculated. The authenticity, the swagger, and the sex is missing. Unbeknownst to many, however, The (International) Noise Conspiracy hasn't been Lyxén's only output since Refused bit the dust. In 1999, he began recording as the Lost Patrol, releasing an album of political themed folk songs called Songs in the Key of Resistance. Now, six years later, what was once merely a solo project has grown to a full band (hence the slight name change) and released its selftitled fullband debut (Lyxén's third overall). Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, the disc suffers from the same symptoms that have ailed most Lyxén releases: It's unoriginal, uninspired, and uninventive. The style may be different, but the song remains the same.  This time around, Lyxén has focused his sights on the new wave and powerpop styles of the late 1970s and early 80s. Tight guitar hooks, doodling moog melodies, and catchy, singalong choruses practically smother the life out of the disc. Two songs stand out: Opener \"Feels Like Drowning\", a toetapper that recalls the Raspberries and the Knack, and \"Pick Me Up\", a subdued, straightforward pop song that uses the synthesizer and a simple, compact beat to drive the verses and jangly guitar for the choruses. Elsewhere, there's not enough to set the tracks apart. \"Golden Times\", \"Hanging On\", and \"Let Me In\" are all rushed and essentially interchangeable. \"Get Ready\" and \"Can't Stand the Quiet\" are generic new wave. None of them are complete failures, but none offer anything to get excited about either. The album's one obvious blunder is \"My Heart Is Still a Mess\", a balladesque tale of woe that oozes with forced sentimentality from the pervasive acoustic guitar to the wedding chapel style organ.  It's a shame that a voice that was once a part of a band responsible for such a strong, original album now seems stuck in a cycle of rehashing decadesold styles. For a man who has put so much effort in being a revolutionary, Lyxén's music is about as status quo as they come.  "}