{"label":" Blue Skies Turn Black","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4934/homepage_large.e2d3cb0f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Les Angles Morts","title":"What's Real?","text":" Early in their career, the Arcade Fire experienced a bit of an implosion, resulting in two members, Myles Broscoe and Brendan Reed, exiting the band. The two, who played on the Arcade Fire's debut EP, left and joined Kyle Fostner and Owain Lawson, forming Les Angles Morts and writing innovative instrumental music. Their debut full length, What's Real?, is at times frantic, with hyperactive drumming and squealing analog synths, and at times haunting and ominous, building layers of guitars and droning keyboards. The album fuses postrock with postpunk, indie rock with noise, and its biggest undoing is the lack of focus. The band refers to the music they create as postpunk movie scores, and its live performances are multimedia affairs based as much on video as audio. Perhaps this offers a clue as to why this disc seems so randomly organized. There are tracks here that sloppily layer the instruments at full volume, creating a cacophony of chirping, banging, and squealing. But there are also soft, moody pieces that incorporate multiple acoustic guitars, quiet droning, and minimal percussion. The songs that show restraint are ultimately successful, while the noisier tracks tend to be so clamorous that they become grating. Had the band reigned in some of their chaotic tendencies, a much more consistent record would've resulted. Consider opener \"What's Real Summer?\", which begins with electronic blips and a restrained rhythm section interplaying bass and drums. The mood is held for only 30 seconds, however, before it bursts into a swirling mess of cymbal crashes and highpitched synths. The song soon shifts again, this time to incorporate sirenlike squeals from the synthesizers, but it never regains the calm, brooding nature. \"Kaleidoscope\" suffers similarly, its distortion cutting through the mix and acting like its own instrument, intent on distracting the listener from the rest of the track's sounds. \"Portals\" irritatingly blasts through its first half with several repeating guitar notes over a fast basssnare beat, but then sobers up and transforms into an emotive, poetic piece. The track sums up the entire album in under 90 seconds.  When the band approaches its songs more judiciously and focuses on one style, the results are pleasant. \"Huge Antlers\" is like the theme to a warped spy movie, with reverbheavy guitar over an almost constant snare roll. Likewise, \"Wave Pool\" dabbles in lofi surf, maintaining a steady, restrained tempo and tone throughout. One of the album's pleasant surprises, \"Waking Up a Maze\", is constructed almost entirely of strumming acoustic guitars in a flamencolike rhythm augmented by shaking tambourines and quiet, rumbling drums.  There are a few tracks where the band is able to maintain its blend of genres without spiraling out of control. \"Ninja Garden\" evokes images of maninarubbersuit monster attacks with its robotic background howling and desolate synth grumbles. \"Sing Together\", possibly the strongest track here, begins with a syncopated dance beat, and the crisp, metallic guitars cut across the top of the low end synth and bass rumbling. The tension builds along with the instruments as a sort of marchofthedamned occurs just over a minute in. The track is menacing, and it manages to convey a sense of dread and panic without resorting to chaos. It's a shame Les Angles Morts haven't delivered this level of quality throughout the album.  "}