{"label":" MGM","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/496/homepage_large.fd026afc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Animals","title":"Animalism","text":" As with many of their 1960s contemporaries, the Animals were beholden to blues, gospel, and r&b;, even as they combined those rhythms with prevailing rock sounds. Like the Rolling Stones and the Yardbirds, they idolized Ray Charles, Chuck Berry, and Bo Diddley, among other black American performers, and the Animals even shared a stage with Sonny Boy Williamson. Singer Eric Burdon also had the voice to sell the sound: sandpaperraw, effortlessly loud, and, like Mick Jagger, intimately lewd, as if every lyric contained some potential double entendre. But the Animals were never as big, as good, or as dangerous as the Stones, and throughout their career they walked a fine line between the pop that made hits and the r&b; that ostensibly warranted respect. On their 1966 album Animalism, they indulge their whitesoul jones more heavily than ever before, and the songs mostly covers volley between the derivative and the inventive. HipO Select's minimumfuss reissue contains no bonus tracks and no involved repackaging, which actually works well for this material: With the short liner notes relegated to the back panel, this new version preserves the shape of the album and the layout of the album sleeve, which likewise preserves the original context as much as possible. Granted, even with these measures it's impossible to hear the album as it was originally intended or received, so we have only hindsight with which to judge the music. On Animalism, amid nearcomplete turnover of the original lineup, the Animals play up their r&b; chops on blues and soul covers, and Burdon continues to try to match his heroes by pushing his performance over the top. His voice is undeniably strong and this type of approach certainly had a particular appeal 40 years ago but his soulman affectations sound practiced, imitative rather than instinctual. Burdon oversells these songs, especially on Sam Cooke's \"Shake\" and the slow, simmering version of \"Hit the Road, Jack\", and his vocals on \"Rock Me Baby\" make the song's innuendo all too obvious. Strangely, on \"The Other Side of Life\" he takes a slightly different tack, aiming for a sound between Elvis and Jim Morrison, but he winds up sounding smaller than the former and smarter than the latter. It should be no surprise that his best performances also his most restrained are on the originals \"Outcast\" and \"Louisiana Blues\". Burdon's vocals sound more spontaneous and individual, perhaps because he doesn't have an example to mimic on these songs or maybe because modern listeners have no other examples against which to measure his performance. Balancing out Burdon's vocals, the Animals prove a powerful band, despite the fact that nearly half of them were new replacements. They're rock solid, but unlike their singer, they rarely showboat. Together they put the real soul in these songs. Hilton Valentine lays down some bluesy riffs on \"Smoke Stack Lightning\", but he's best when trading off with organist Dave Rowberry on \"Rock Me Baby\" and \"All Night Long\", forming a rowdy call and response. It's the rhythm section, however, that shapes the songs and allows the band to move so agilely around Burdon. Bassist Chas Chandler and drummer Barry Jenkins (a sturdy replacement for original member John Steel) put the shake in \"Shake\", pushing a swampy beat to its breaking point, and Jenkins' high hat and snare drive the upanddown stomp on \"Lucille\". This type of playing doesn't go out of style, even if other aspects of Animalism don't have as much to tell us today. "}