{"label":" Jetset","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/4957/homepage_large.84739780.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Macha","title":"Forget Tomorrow","text":" It's been a while since we last heard from Macha, and with all the scenes that have risen and fallen in the interim, it's easy to forget that they were once viewed as one of indie rock's greatest hopes for the future a future that, at the time of their second album, was still a calendar century away. The Athens, GA trio got off to a quick start, gracing 1998 and 1999 each with a forwardlooking, genredefying album. In 2000, they dropped a highlyacclaimed collaboration with nowdefunct slowcore naprockers Bedhead and then seemingly evaporated, leaving us to figure out where to redirect our anticipation. So forgive me if I didn't figure they even existed anymore. Four years is a long pause, but brothers Joshua and Mischo McKay, and their former housemate Kai Reidl, have emerged on the other end of their layoff with an album that, while not quite justification for the wait, nonetheless brims with the same restless creativity that spiked their early records, updated just enough to incorporate the moping massive's newfound fascination with all things rhythmic and pulsing. Macha still retain the passion for Indonesian gamelan and arcane instrumentation that made their initial burst so distinctive, but it's relatively played down, relegated mostly to the corners in favor of NeoTokyo synths and a river of bass: Forget Tomorrow is a futurist's sonic Eden, a soundtrack to the arcades and clinics of William Gibson's Chiba City. The album's first half cruises through this territory with the top down, breathing its air fully, and scooping up most of the good ideas that lie there. The title track ought to be a single, with its deadpanned, vacuumsealed melody, plasticine synth, flourishes of koto, and polished steel neoMoroder groove. It's sleeker than a Mitsubishi TV spot, but the recording's workmanlike nature renders it real. \"(Do the) Inevitable\" adds the clanking Indonesian percussion that we've so come to expect on a Macha record, but the funky bassline and kick/hihat boomchik are all Macha Mk II. That beat comes back to support the echoing buzz of \"Smash & Grab\", which smacks slightly of The Faint without nearly as much aggressive edge. A sprinkling of instrumentals provide the best link with the band's exotica kick, \"DDD\" clanging with gamelan, \"Paper Tiger\" awash with repetitive hammer dulcimer figures, and Silk Road melodies wafting on synthetic strings through the vibecluttered buzz of \"Sub II\". All of this makes Forget Tomorrow a welcome return for Macha, who seem just as ready to expand their sound as ever. A few ponderous interludes (especially \"While the People Sleep\", a gonowhere ambient drag) hamper the record's momentum at inopportune times, which is a shame, given that, along with the joys of rhythm, the world has also recently rediscovered the benefits of the 40minute runtime. Still, this album confirms that Macha truly are long for this world, and I'll take that any day. "}