{"label":" Locust / Quakebasket","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/4961/homepage_large.5a55f6e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Angus Maclise","title":"Astral Collapse","text":" I'm not exactly going out on a critical limb saying that Keith Moon was one of the alltime great rock drummers, nor am I bucking the trend by slagging his godawful solo record. Two Sides of the Moon, abandoned the brilliant potential of a prolonged \"Cobwebs and Strange\" propulsion or sidelong extension of the violin ending he tacked onto \"Baba O'Riley\". He didn't even take the drumsticks into his meaty hands, for Christ's sake, much less set up an explosive drum kit. All he did on that bastardized album was sing! And wretchedly at that. Angus Maclise, on the other hand, was far more the Renaissance Man: making his own calendars, doing calligraphy, publishing homemade collections of his poems and spiritual tracts, and acting in underground flicks, not to mention founding the original incarnation of The Velvet Underground. To those already entranced by his lateblooming legacy (he passed away prematurely at age 41 back in the late 1970s with no readily available documentation of his efforts), he is remembered as a powerful percussionist. Whether in his handdrumming duties sustaining The Dream Syndicate (featuring future minimal legends like La Monte Young, Marian Zazeela, Tony Conrad, and John Cale) or in the incessant rainfalls and thunderheads from the storms of Nirvana that he conjured up on the 39minute mind expansion of \"Invasion of Thunderbolt Pagoda (St. Marks Epiphany)\" from the first Quakebasket archival unearthing, Maclise was one of the few original percussionists to come along in the last century, tapping into the ancient tradition that the drums could invoke and carrying it into the future. As he puts it in the poem that opens up this third disc of old tapes to be compiled: \"You are not limited to one room, there are many rooms.\" Which certainly is true, as this collection explores the numerous facets of his farreaching capabilities. The music, however, suffers not so much from dilution or scattering of energies as much as it does from remembrance of the beatific strength of his drumming capabilities so rarely on display here. On Astral Collapse Maclise concerns himself more with other possible disciplines: poetry recital, Gysinesque tape collage, early synth meltdowns, and harmonium hums. \"Smothered Under Astral Collapse\" offers an explanation of Tibetan rituals that he was pondering at the time, before engaging in an Innersystemslike mashing of babbling beardisms with odd tape splicing in the background. This leads into a harmoniumhover of sustained drone that is surprisingly light on its feet, nimbly waltzing on wavering overtones that build over seventeen minutes. It finds him to still be extremely sympathetic with other New York lofters of the early 70s like La Monte Young, Terry Riley, and Charlemagne Palestine, though he isn't as obsessively focused as these gents. Only once, on \"Beezlebub\", does Maclise pull out the Beat bongos, and even then promptly chucks them into a haunted pressure cooker, making a most intense and unholy clatter of percussion and disquieting ghost noise. \"Cloud Watching\" is diffuse and calming, echoing and glistening with numerous gongs, bells, and strings. The tape quality of some of these restored pieces is less than ideal, but in the right setting, it reveals less the hifidelity flaws than the curious aura of tapes gooey with hash haze, transmitting by contact high. The fifth track reveals a heavy Sun Ra presence, as he transubstantiates the Arp circuits into star plasma, firing intense tazer rounds into the headspace with some background clopping coming almost as an afterthought. \"Dracula\" begins as an excellent dose of tape collaging and tambour buzzes, as birds, location recordings, tape loops, and electronic noises blur into one messedup entity, but the stoned poetry reading that comes to the fore and pushes back the psychedelic noise is more of a buzzkill, a bummer that brings down the remainder of the trip. Maybe drummers should just stay away from singing. "}