{"label":" Palm","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4963/homepage_large.01be993c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Mad Capsule Markets","title":"OSC-DIS (Oscillator in Distortion)","text":" I've never been huge on heavy music. People's individual definitions of \"heavy music\" vary quite a bit, but when I say it, I mean music that aims to be heavy in the bonecrushing sense usually metal or hardcore. I never went through a Metallica and/or Megadeth phase in school, and I never got into Earth Crisis when I discovered punk. I like plenty of noisy stuff, but browsing through my collection, you're not likely to find much that the average listener would call \"brutal.\" My friends are pretty well aware of this, and virtually every one of them has reacted with a certain amount of shock when they've heard Mad Capsule Markets blaring from my stereo. And it's true OSCDIS may be the heaviest album I own, yet I've been playing the hell out of it. For some reason, it speaks to me in a way most music of its ilk doesn't. There are a lot of reasons for this, and the primary one is probably that, for all of their stuttering riffs, dropped tunings and double bass fills, Mad Capsule Markets are never lacking in the melodic department, which makes listening a lot easier. It could also have something to do with the cultural filter the music is being sifted through before it gets to me. See, these guys are from Japan, and they approach their music with a certain openminded eclecticism that seems to characterize a lot of the music coming from that country these days. I think one of the reasons a lot of Americans find Japanese music so fascinating is that it's such an incredibly pure synthesis of influences. Punk, surf, industrial, prog, radioready pop, and just about any other genre you can think of are all treated equally, and don't carry the same baggage in Japan as they do in the U.S. Thus, Mad Capsule Markets' ninth album (their second available in the States) pours all of those genres and more into a 40minute adrenaline blast that never gets tiring. Released in Japan in 1999, this album has already spawned five major hits for the band in their homeland, and it's easy to see why. Given a fair shake on radio in the U.S., I could see it enjoying a similar reign here, despite the fact that the band veers back and forth between English and Japanese lyrics (often in the same song). Vocalist Kyono ably alternates scattershot raps, deep growls and melodic singing, constantly switching approaches, while bassist/programmer Takeshi Ueda and drummer/programmer Motokatsu Miyagami lay down an intense rhythmic onslaught designed to alternately move your ass and pummel it into oblivion. The odd guitar works its way into the mix here and there, but for the most part, Ueda handles everything with his bass, dishing up clean, elastic lines and windowrattling, distorted figures with equal aplomb.OSCDIS opens with the pulsating electronic rhythms and fouronthefloor kick drum of \"Tribe\" before blasting into the first of many blistering choruses. Admittedly, the lyrics don't translate that well, but the increase in heart rate the song provides renders any concerns like that pretty well moot. \"Out/Definition\" follows, layering Miyagami's octopedal kit drumming on top of frenetic drum programs and weaving loops of Kyono's filtered screaming into the heavily distorted bassline to create a dense lowend texture that supports the semimelodic rapping taking place in the foreground. \"N (Pulse)\" bursts with melodies indebted to West Coast surf and old school UK punk while the music churns violently underneath, injecting thunderous stuttering passages after each chorus. Occasionally, the keyboard programming comes close to the Mutant New Wave of the Tokyobased band Polysics (such as on \"Multiplies\"), though it's always featured lower in the mix. The brief \"Mob Track\" is one of the few tracks that subverts melody altogether, in favor of head spinning, industrial drum programming and meatgrinder bass not terribly far removed any of the hundreds of projects Alec Empire has put his name on. (That's a good thing here, by the way.) It's followed by the highly melodic, surfdrenched \"All the Time in Sunny Beach,\" which features lyrics about literally walking around on a sunny beach, a hilariously mundane topic when you consider the urgency with which it's sung. This gives way to \"Island,\" the real odd duck in this flock. The only song to feature guitar prominently, it sports verses that could easily be mistaken for the slow track on a mid80s jangle pop album, complete with \"ooh ooh\" backing vocals (albeit with distorted lead vocals). These verses alternate with fullon hardcore punk choruses that feel strangely appropriate regardless of the abruptness they enter with. The rest of OSCDIS swings wildly between the thrashing digital metal of \"Restart!\" and \"Jag,\" the buzzy junglepunk of \"Step into Yourself,\" and the almost bouncy poppunk of \"Good Girl (Dedicated to Bride After 20 Years),\" naturally cut though with ridiculously heavy passages that would make Blink 182 soil themselves. Then, it all ends with \"Midi Surf,\" an aptly titled number that ties together all of the album's musical threads, with heavy as hell verses, rapped prechoruses, freakishly fast drumming and a heavily melodic chorus. Sequenced rhythms lurk in every corner of the mix, pushing the song even harder toward its abrupt conclusion, which ends the album in just about the exact right amount of time. So, overall, the Mad Capsule Markets have it going on in spades, grabbing your adrenal glands and squeezing them as hard as possible. God knows what their name means (I suspect it's an odd translation of some sort of drug reference), but I hope that doesn't keep people from noticing this band. Like I said before, I've never really been into heavy music, but this gets my full endorsement. "}