{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4973/homepage_large.fd14810d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"Magic Magicians","title":"Magic Magicians","text":" Everyone loves rock and roll. I mean everyone. Do you play guitar? Drums, sing, scat? Seriously, just try not to rock. Skibbety bopbopdon't believe me? I don't care if you're an avantgarde underground dancejazz pianist; you're gonna rock. And you're gonna like it. All you have to do is round up your friends and petition your label for support. Everyone's doing it. It's a tenuous case history, but check it out: Saddle Creek has Desaparecidos, Matador has The New Pornographers, Barsuk has The Long Winters, and Suicide Squeeze offers us The Magic Magicians; a place where artists can shed their individual reservations and primary aspirations and just plain rock. It's a safe haven, in this case for 764HERO's John Atkins and Joe Plummer of Black Heart Procession, where everything is warm and fuzzy and no one cares how you spend your working hours. Atkins does it all, singing and strumming and plucking, while Plummer takes a seat behind the drums. A few other willingtorockers join the mix, including Quasi's Janet Weiss and Justin Trosper of Unwound, to name a few. I told you everyone wants to rock. And rock they do. For about thirty minutes, The Magic Magicians do nothing else, as they canter their way through eleven unaffected, unadorned onetake sounding garage pop numbers. It's no wonder this sort of project is so alluring; if they bought an hour of studio time they probably used half of it to play a quick game of Jenga and down a few Mr. Pibbs. There's no fighting over postrecording knob tweaking in the studio, and it's this palpable levity that frames the entire effort. Sometimes crisp, never clean: the sound is rough but catchy, and all the while carefree. Whereas both primary players have a proclivity for musical histrionics, there's no home for sentimentalist camp here. Rhythmic guitars trade time in the spotlight with confident drumming. \"Cascade Express\" pairs the two in a tight verse that perfectly serves an impossibly catchy chorus. The song is gone before you knew it was there, and much like the successful formula predicated by Spoon's A Series of Sneaks, the album's best moments are its least indulgent. Similarly, \"Action\" utilizes some tight drum and guitar alignments to fabricate a slick groove, but doesn't press the issue, leaving and returning to the formula with ease and wilyveteran respect for inertia. Predictably, the two slower numbers are pushed to the end. The closer, \"8 Hours Go\", being the more accomplished of the two, as the chorus of \"All Sewn Up\" could easily be a discarded 764HERO moment. For the most part, though, Atkins and Plummer manage to shirk old penchants, something at which they were considerably less adept on their debut, Girls. Yes, it's all fairly predictable. If the song is plodding then it's resting up to sprint, if it's digressing then it's about to focus, and if it's rocking and tight then it's gonna loosen up. But they waste little time in the process and should be rewarded for such a streamlined effort. And even considering the limited palette, the album never drags. Admittedly, it's missing something, but given the limitations of this sort of lofi pop, nothing I'm overly fond of. It's rock, see. No excuses. "}