{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/4983/homepage_large.c39c9786.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Mahogany","title":"Memory Column: Early Works & Rarities, MCMXCVI-MMIV","text":" My first experience with Mahogany occurred in a loft in Boston's Chinatown. The space was used mainly for showings of independent short films and the band played on the floor with projections behind them, filling the room with their dense, rippling waves of what they refer to as \"massed guitar, violoncelli, voice & electronics.\" The moment I remember best was when the band built a monumental drone around a single chord while an image of white metal beams slowly shifted behind them. As the image moved, the texture of the drones shifted, and finally it became clear that the footage was shot on a Ferris wheel, with the camera initially aimed at the direct center of the wheel to create an almost abstract visual. It was an audiovisual feast, to say the least. On record, Mahogany aren't exactly prolific, having released just one fulllength in nearly 10 years as a band, but they've turned out a couple more albums' worth of scattered tracks on EPs, split 7\"'s, and compilations in that time, which is the stuff Memory Column focuses on over the course of its two discs. Disc One is subtitled \"Song Cycle No. 1 for Rural Michigan\", and the implication is that its 10 songs, recorded from 1996 to 1999, were intended to form a unified body of work, a promise that actually bears itself out pretty well. Disc Two, subtitled \"Song Cycle No. 2 for Detroit & New York\", gathers music from 1999 to 2004 and covers the period during which they relocated from the Motor City to NYC. Generally speaking, these arrangements are more intricate and varied than those on the first disc. Mahogany's music falls broadly into the part of the dreampop spectrum that emphasizes the dream over the pop, placing them in a similar space with Surface of Ecion, Landing, and Auburn Lull, with whom Mahogany's mosttenured member, Andrew Prinz, has played. Song titles like \"The Singing ArcLamp\" do almost as much to explain the sound of the music as I could in 150 words. By the middle of Disc Two, though, the sound begins to branch out, with \"Semaphore Streamlines\" and \"Bunker Soldiers\" embracing a more postpunk sensibility, the latter mixing melodica with bobbing synth and an odd, chanting vocal arrangement that breaks away from the band's more typical wispy harmonies and solo vocals. Those wispy vocals do sound good, though, set in amongst guitars that go on for miles. They give the music's ephemeral arrangements interesting rhythms to play off of, too, laying on a thick, shimmering drone over a delaydrenched ponging noise on \"Amelia No. 2\". A lot of bands playing in this territory have songs that are basically interchangeable, but Mahogany don't fall into that trap even their earliest music takes care to introduce countermelodies and allow the rhythm section (which is sometimes a machine) time to make its own statement. Having all of this music, originally scattered over a collectors' nightmare of rare and hard to find discs, in one place is nice enough from a completist standpoint, but what's more impressive about Memory Column is that it illustrates a band's evolution while also presenting two very cohesive discs that each make a strong statement as suites. People who are into dream pop and classic UK shoegazer rock need to give this band a listen, as they're among the best bands currently doing this stuff, and if Memory Column is any indication, hearing their continued evolution will be a pleasure. "}