{"label":" Leaf","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5015/homepage_large.42f1ceed.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Manitoba","title":"Jacknuggeted EP","text":" Manitoba's Dan Snaith knows how to piece together records. I'm not talking about the quality of his music (though he's hitting his stride, and Up in Flames is definitely among the year's best), but his editing and sequencing skills. True to its 60s influences, Up in Flames is a tight and tidy 40minute record, the kind that's so short and consistently good you can't help but wonder about the quality of the tracks that didn't make the cut. Because Snaith knows what he's doing, we can assume that some of the better alsorans would find release somewhere. This EP, in addition to containing one of the highlights from Up in Flames, contains three such tracks. But first there is \"Jacknuggeted\" itself, taken from the album. The simple acoustic guitar hook on the chorus is the first thing that sticks out. It's a jubilant, threechord strum that sounds like something you might play a couple hours into your first time picking up the instrument, during that moment when you finally \"get\" how chords work together. It's got a virginal excitement to go with its archetypical pop structure, and the fact that Snaith backs it with an organ swell and a thicket of sitarlike sounds makes it even better. Handclaps, baba vocals, a chopped, stutterstep break it's a lot to pack into 3\\xBD minutes, but it works beautifully. The first time I listened to \"Olé\" it sounded like Snaith had omitted his version of \"Let's Go Away for a While\" from his own personal Pet Sounds. \"Olé\" is certainly more upbeat and aggressive, but something about its meandering, tuneful structure punctuated by periodic drum rolls (these being much heavier) seems akin to Brian Wilson's light classic. \"Thistles and Felt\" hearkens back to the first Manitoba fulllength's interest in the sounds associated with innocence. Music box bells provide the center around which sampled strings, guitar, keyboards and drums revolve. Very much like the best of Up in Flames, \"Thistles and Felt\" is a traditional pop instrumental constructed by someone with a background in electronic music. That is, instead of relying on long melody lines laid over chord changes, \"Thistles and Felt\" is about instrumental addition and subtraction, a series of sonic swells and contractions. The sixminute \"Seaweed\" closes this brief EP. With its length and brooding intro, the track feels like it wants to be more substantial than the three tunes preceding it, but it's ultimately not as satisfying. A short glockenspiel melody is the focal point of the track, but somehow the hook isn't compelling enough to warrant the grandeur that surrounds it. Still, despite the hohum closer, Jacknuggted is still a smart little EP that shows Snaith had enough good material to pack Up in Flames completely if he was so inclined. His decision to include the Bsides on this EP instead elevates both records individually. "}