{"label":" Parlophone","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5026/homepage_large.ef8e2309.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brent DiCrescenzo","artist":"Mansun","title":"Six","text":" The sheer audacity of Mansun's sophomore album, Six, demands respect and ridicule. After the surprising success of their first record, Attack of the Grey Lantern, Mansun have practically abandoned all the key ingredients to that record's accolades. Songwriter Paul Draper dumped the satirical characters and simple guitar pop, which was a brave move, if not a stupid one. Instead, Six invents the haphazard genre of glam prog space bubblegum rock in which rock stars in glitter and leather pants play nine minute bezerk jams. Surprisingly, this album has yet to see release in the States the songs change pace so frequently and randomly that they'd be perfect for our short attention spans. It's perfect! I mean, if you don't like a song, you just have to wait about 30 seconds for it to completely change. Seemingly influenced by comic books and hallucinogens, Six skitters from chugging power chords, to intricate hooks, to Pink Floyd wandering, to Tchaikovsky samples, to lip licking swagger. At times they can come off like a frightening cross between the Pixies, T Rex, and Yes. If you give Mansun the benefit of the doubt, and assume they're not being completly serious, Six entertains immensely, chockablock with every element of modern rock. The fusion sounds so weird and seizure inducing that it sucks you into its pretentious, mascara'd maw. It helps that the four lads rock with remarkable skill. It's hard to imagine any other band pulling off this mammoth epic. (Well, perhaps Radiohead on a heavy dose of prozac and a Cadbury chocolate rush.) Paul Draper's emotional, spotlight sucking delivery sparkles over Dominic Chad's inventive solos and melodies, as the drummer and bassist simply try to keep up. When making a concept album, a band walks the razor sharp line between Kiss' (Music From) The Elder and Radiohead's OK Computer. With a truckload of chutzpah, Mansun walks this tightrope for over an hour, teetering to either side, constantly looking to fall off. From moment to moment they can be ridiculous or beautiful, artistic or fluff. The chills and thrills of hearing them perform such a stunt is worth hunting down an import. "}