{"label":" Tomlab","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5029/homepage_large.f45470a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Mantler","title":"Sadisfaction","text":" With a halfcentury of rock and roll under our belts, we should have learned long ago that the quality of a band's name does not necessarily have a direct relation to the quality of the music they make. After all, The Beatles and The Who both banked on groaninducing wordplay in their monikers, and they were no worse off for it. With a name like Mantler, however, it's hard not to be at least a little suspicious. Mantastic would have been funnier. Manimal could have passed for wry social commentary. But Mantler? That's just wrong. Anyone able to get past Mantler's odd sobriquet and play Sadisfaction, however, will learn anew that the skills for making good music and thinking up good names are stored in separate compartments of the human mind. Mantler (who, in real life, is just one guy, Chris Cummings) shows himself to be a deft musician, one who handles ProTools like most people handle buttering their muffins. Throughout Sadisfaction, he displays his easy mastery of electronic fireworks, and while that surely elicits nerdish appreciation from fellow laptop jockeys, what really impresses about Cummings is his sophisticated, coherent approach to composition. By juxtaposing opposing elements such as his defiantly tinny drum machine with some ultranaturalistic cool jazz trumpet in \"HopedFor Chance\", or the alternating lush and stark moments in \"You Were Free\" Cummings develops a fascinating tension that keeps the record inflated. And since he only explores a small range of moods with despair on one extreme and resignation on the other, he gets some needed mileage out of this ambiguity. Subtle variations, though, will only go so far, and Sadisfaction proves that they don't go far enough. The album's unrelieved gloom may work well as a soundtrack to selfpity, but as an artistic statement, its impact is decidedly limited. As Beck recently reminded the world, nonstop sad records can still be redeeming and ultimately lifeaffirming listens, but Sadisfaction gradually slips off from the precarious perch of saturnine sensitivity into the oppressive pit of solipsism. Cummings is an excellent songwriter with a finely honed sense of when to introduce new material, but listening to this very solid chunk of his work in one sitting is far more grueling than it should be. The set of songs contained here may be a perfectly accurate representation of Cummings' inner life, and some would certainly defend such work on the basis of authenticity, but even if authenticity in art were not a meretricious obsession best relegated to far lower levels of concern, it's difficult to feel much sympathy for someone who spends forty minutes thoroughly exhausting the possibilities for expressing a brand of angst that most people have no use for after high school. If Cummings is using his personal minutiae as the sole source for his art (a likely situation, by the sound of it), then the best we can hope for in the future is that he simply cheers up. "}