{"label":" Static Caravan","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5031/homepage_large.9b79e70c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Manual","title":"Isares EP","text":" Electronic music is predicated on novelty. If it's not a new machine or piece of software pointing the way (going back to the Art of Noise and New Order, who frequently scrapped their entire arsenal of equipment for the latest and greatest), it's a highspeed chase following that rarest of commodities, an original idea (Squarepusher's early material set drum/drill and bass on fire, Oval sold glitches to the world). Since its acceptance as a valid genre, electronica has promised boundless liberty from overpriced studios, overpriced equipment, and most importantly, the rules, yet somehow, we've ascended our first decade of beats, tones, clicks and cuts with about as much remarkable, enduring material as the disco revolution left behind. So it's hugely inspiring when an artist appears who has no obvious debt to any specific genre, or, combines so many different styles as to overcome typecasting. Electronic sounds even nonmusical blurts are now part of platinumselling masterpieces ranging from Radiohead to Missy Elliott. Electronica, it turns out, was just another color, and artists have only recently begun to paint traditional canvases with it. Jonas Munk, as Manual, leads a second generation of masters. The sonorous rebirth of electronica written on Manual's first two albums (1999's Until Tomorrow is dated by needless glitches, unlike last year's majestic Ascend) is neither luck nor accident; it's artistry, creativity and poise at their apex, and we're talking about a guy barely into his twenties. His signature stereopanned percussion, for its chiming chaos, can't distract from the spectral, oceanic guitar work central to Manual's sound: with Ascend, Jonas Munk dispatched about half the electronic music released in the last fiveplus years, filling the chillout void left in Seefeel's wake. The musings of so many of his peers feel conceptually thin and prefabricated in comparison to Manual's wandering, curious anthems.Isares maintains Munk's muchdeserved reputation as a junior Lanois, with more twinkling guitars, celestial drones and cutely cluttered percussion sequences. The EP serves as a somewhat brief coda for Manual's first wave of material (in addition to the two fulllengths, there's the minimalist IDrive 12inch and an extraneous, exploitative remix record with Icebreaker International); unlike his earliest work, Isares isn't tempted by new technologies or stylistic shifts, varying little from the sound defined on Ascend. To wit, the mounting \"A Familiar Place\" makes a fitting and fittingly titled opener: Munk's moaning, distorted progression crests in a tidal wave of drone straight from Ascend's most dramatic pieces, before a faroff, echoing crescendo rides off into the sunset (as so many of his pieces tend to do). Of the three substantial pieces (\"Stealing Through\" is a brief 2\\xBD minute solo piece), both \"A Familiar Place\" and \"Wake\" tow the party line, but when you've hit on such unique sounds, progress isn't necessarily necessary. Munk's layered interactions still overwhelm, mixed to provide a remarkably wide stereo image even in comparison to Ascend ensuring an immersive listen on headphones, and an appreciable sense of distance between your loudspeakers. Known for a serious Slowdive penchant (he covered the title track for Morr Music's Blue Skied An' Clear tribute), Munk quite literally throws them a wake, but in its timewarped halfspeed drum loop stupor, \"Wake\" also approximates a less dubinfluenced Seefeel. Soprano vocals soar through the rafters of an empty coastline cathedral, announcing an increased interest in these timbres, which he alluded to, just barely, in Ascend's \"Out for the Summer\" and \"Cassy\". \"Wake\" is much darker and less distracted than previous works, dispatching with cluttered beats in order to focus on the Pygmalionera Slowdive moans. Manual's signature chimes echo underneath a fond, bubbling farewell to a band that's obviously had an enormous impact on him.Isares, unfortunately, doesn't offer as affecting a bon voyage as he waved to his shoegaze heroes: \"Horizon\" is a meandering, underdeveloped ambient guitar and keyboard piece with overt Eno aspirations, and fails badly. Munk is blinded by his adoration of the past, and can't see that his power lies in and derives from the present; in attempting to evoke Eno's intensely scripted ambient works, he betrays naivete and shortsightedness. These qualities can be expected of so young and openminded a musician, but in lieu of Manual's already demonstrated originality even brilliance, at times it's still a letdown. "}