{"label":" Morr","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5032/homepage_large.f34df4d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Manual","title":"Ascend","text":" Twentyyear old Jonas Munk first broke from obscurity with a debut EP for the Denmarkbased Hobby Industries label. The disc's blend of IDM breaks and classic shoegazer lullabies quickly earned him international recognition, and he soon found a natural home with the Morr Music label. How pleased with himself must Thomas Morr have felt when Munk dropped his first Manual fulllength, Until Tomorrow, on his Rococo gilt and ivoryinlayed walnut desk. It instantly captured the Morr aesthetic: the fusion of Powerbook beats with Slowdive's effectspedal swoon. Earlier this year, having given the world some time to recuperate from the blissout of his first LP, Munk joined forces with friends to flesh out his debut's gossamer glide with Orion, released under the moniker Limp. As it turns out, that album serves as a springboard for Ascend. If you haven't heard Orion, the difference between Manual's first fulllength and this new album might seem a bit striking; where Until Tomorrow is etiolated and fragile, Ascend is strenuous and graceful. Opening statements don't get much more transporting than \"Midnight Is Where the Day Begins.\" Out of a low rumble of digital ocean waves, all manner of processed chimes ripple until an angelically chorused guitar line threads its shimmering way into prominence. In its path follows a glorious retinue of beguiling sounds that never quite become a coherent melody. It's instead an iridescent wake that fades out twothirds of the way through to allow a peaceful conversation between pristine metallic flourishes and lush guitar. Against heavy percussion echoing the DMX drum machine Vini Reilly used on his early 80s Durutti Column albums, swooping lines are set to \"Astoria,\" reminding me of, actually, Vangelis at his most economical. \"Out of the Summer\" ruminates like the peaceful passages in Tangerine Dream's \"Atem\" before Munk reminds the listener of his debt to Boards of Canada by introducing a sparsely plucked acoustic guitar and the wordless vocalizing of a child. And once ensconced in the BoC soundscape, Munk sees no hurry to leave, grafting the seesawing piano melody from Massive Attack's \"Teardrop\" to \"Casey,\" and also appropriating some of the granulized fuzz of Autechre's Confield to mask the influence of Pale Saints' \"Little Hammer.\" He later emerges with \"As the Moon Spins Around,\" his guitar taking enormous legato glides across a nearempty pace. A tiny pulse and the occasional soft clank of alien machinery passes almost undetected beneath the gentle cosmic ambience. Jonas Munk has a grasp of melody and elegance that far outstrips his young ears. Ascend belongs rightfully with the Irresistible Force's It's Tomorrow Already as an album of concentrated bliss and artful precision. But truth be told, I'd rather not have heard Orion first, as it gave away the interim steps that would otherwise have been such a great surprise. Next time I hear a Manual album I want to feel overwhelmed by his overachievement rather than comfortably pleased by it. "}