{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5036/homepage_large.e19b4e2f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Maquiladora","title":"What the Day Was Dreaming","text":" The great comedian Louis Black once theorized in a characteristic fit of high blood pressured rage that being a weatherman in San Diego is the easiest job in the world: \"It's gonna be...nice,\" is about all you'd ever have to say, he commented, and every time I check San Diego on Weather.com, he appears to be right. Maybe I'm just checking on the good days, but it always seems to be about 70 degrees and sunny there. As I type, it's 69 and partly cloudy. My college friends from San Diego even suffered like crazy in the Boston winter. Given the situation on the ground, I'm not sure what's got the three guys in Maquiladora so down. Maquiladora refer to what they do as \"desert rock,\" which only really makes sense in that San Diego isn't too far from the desert. Let me tell you, desert rock is a friend of mine, and this ain't him. Friends of Dean Martinez, Calexico, Rainer Ptacek that's desert rock; I'm getting no inkling of thousandyearold sagebrush, burrowing gerbils or windrippled dunes from What the Day Was Dreaming. 'Course, these guys are free to call their music whatever they want, and though it may sound like 100% lofi dirge to me, I guess the image of a deserted town is a fairly appropriate one. The slowly shifting background textures (including some fascinating guitarwork by Acid Mothers Temple's Makoto Kawabata) in \"Heartbroken\" could be the wind creaking through some untrodden alley, just as easily as the crippled steel guitars, xylophones and pianos that litter the album could signify rusting cars and rotting fences.What the Day Was Dreaming (the band's fourth overall, but only the second widely available in the States) is frequently evocative the melodic bass and gently sung dadada's of \"Dr. Said No\" are inviting, the way humid night air feels when you leave an overly airconditioned building. Black Heart Procession's Pall Jenkins (who also ran the boards on this recording) contributes some spooky saw to closer \"Liam\", a song that spends nearly its full duration retreating from standard forms, but that still feels haunted and empty. Evocative's great, of course, and it's wonderful when a band really draws you into the mood of their album, but a record that's all mood can wear off pretty quickly. None of these songs present their melodies distinctly enough for them to make a lasting impression, which is a shame, really, because by the time minute #60 rolls around, they've likely lost you completely, despite any number of striking moments along the way. \"Drunk & Lighting Fires (A Waltz)\" feels brilliant when it's playing, an elegantly wasted guitar grind of funereal indie rock topped with discordant horns, but when it's over, it's really over the next song, yet another with a hanging sense of sameness and anonymous malaise, easily wipes it from memory. Even when Maquiladora come close to developing a really good hook, like with the guitar part to \"Kiss Over\", it could always be sharper, and that's Maquiladora's ultimate failing. What the Day Was Dreaming is full of arresting moments that release you just when they're about to get a confession from you, and at a full hour, you're almost guaranteed to take a break from it somewhere along the line. 2002's Ritual of Hearts actually did a better job of insinuating itself with the listener, and remains the album to go to first if you're interested. But while Maquiladora prove themsleves able crafters of atmosphere here, it's going to take some more developed songs to make them anything more. "}