{"label":" Markant","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5046/homepage_large.72cea616.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Markant","title":"Vice Versa","text":" Markant's lone ranger, Carsten Endrass, is through with glitch. He no longer finds any value in the accidental clickandpop that once signified recorded entropy and fractured reality. Just like the sound of running water that appeared on every ambient disc ten years ago, clicks and glitches have lost all potency. They're now just another preset sound. Endrass's Vice Versa, however, is not a wholesale return to the time before glitch. That sound is in the album, yet Endrass has reformatted it. Vice Versa, unlike Mouse on Mars' Idiology or Posthuman's Uncertainty of the Monkey, revels not in contrast or juxtaposition, but rather in interchangeability. Elements don't jar; they become subjugated to Endrass' harmonic concept.Vice Versa is a very confident album. It's a brave musician who kicks off an album with a fourteenminute track. Yet Endrass' bravery is far from hubris. He produced over thirty vinyl releases before he issued his debut longplayer, Infam, in 2001. Unfortunately, Endrass limited his vinyl productions to about 300 copes per title, and consequently, the Markant name was known more by reputation than by experience. Endrass, answering only to himself, begins Vice Versa in a digital haze reminiscent of a cloud of wellmeaning mosquitoes dancing about your ears. After nearly four minutes, the harmonic and melodic elements of the opening track, \"Spurwechsel,\" emerge. It's as though he's cleansing the listener in anticipation of the Markant concept of music. Fortunately, Endrass has the skills to match his boast. Vice Versa abounds in idiosyncratic and original melodic twists, dips, dives, and arches. Unlike Mouse on Mars who sometimes disguise their tunes in offbeat programming or Venusian skaotica, Endrass doesn't parade prodigious programming abilities. Like Galerie Stratique or Isan, Endrass would rather expend energy on increasing the vocabulary of melody rather than genesplicing sound. Initially, I bemoaned the lack of sonic innovation, but after many listens, I've become more fascinated with the sedate glass harmonica beauty of \"Natura Morte\" and the glacial drift of the title track. You might say that Geir Jensen (aka Biosphere) definitively mapped out this territory with 1997's Substrata, or that Thomas Köner took ambience to its bleak extreme with 1998's Kaamos. And you could say that \"Deserto\" compares just as favorably to Amberera Autechre, or that \"Laissez Faire\" sounds like Global Communications' mechanized excursions under the Reload moniker. And I couldn't even disagree with you. But I would retort that no one should visit a place just once. Endrass' terrain may be familiar, but his assessment of them is utterly his own. "}