{"label":" Truckstop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5049/homepage_large.fdf8a532.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Matt Marque","title":"Get There","text":" Well, this is a frustrating one. On the one hand, Matt Marque's debut album is a nicely crafted little package of songs, stuffed with fine musicianship from some of Chicago's finest scenesters, including five members and associates of the Boxhead Ensemble. He even got Brahms to play some piano for him. Well, it's not that Brahms this guy's name is Carl but he does a good job. But there's one thing offsetting all of this that I'm having a hard time getting past, and that's Matt Marque's voice. To his credit, no one else sounds quite like Marque on the mic. To his discredit, though, probably no one in the world really wants to. He warbles more tentatively than Mark Linkous, Jonathan Donahue, and Wayne Coyne combined, and as a result, listening to Get There is like watching a $7,000 Ming vase fall to the floor in slow motion: it's beautiful, it's fragile, and it's about to break. Marque seems as though he's slowly coming to terms with the fact that he's not really a singer. For one thing, many of the songs on his debut feature simple, easytosing melodies that don't require a whole lot of range. And, blessedly, he's backed by Joe Ferguson (who's pulled duty doing everything from engineering the Promise Ring to playing all kinds of instruments for Simon Joyner, Sam Rivers and dozens of others) on several tracks. Ferguson, by himself, is not a hugely distinctive vocalist, but in the backing role he's given here, he adds a lot of spine to melodies that might otherwise collapse, borne on the back of a voice that's just not strong enough. The dual vocals have roughly the same effect as Isaac Brock doubletracking himself on some of Modest Mouse's quietest material it's shaky but it does the trick. And once you get past the frontman, you come across some richly detailed backing tracks, full of Fred LonbergHolm's humming cello, Steve Dorocke's muted pedal steel lines, and the stately drumming of Wilco's Glenn Kotche. Indeed, there's an incredible amount of skilled instrumental interplay going on here, and it's a shame it's not supporting something stronger. Marque himself isn't a bad guitarist by any measure, and when he and Boxhead Ensemble ringleader Michael Krassner duel on their acoustics, it provides for some of the album's most enjoyable moments. The instrumental, \"Here Is What I've Been Trying to Tell You,\" brings this interplay to the fore over Adam Morganstern's programmed beat, providing a pleasant interlude and a needed respite from Marque's grating lead vocals. Other musical highlights include \"Collage Made of Air,\" which takes the whiteboy soul/funk that Lambchop so often ply as their blueprint, resulting in a breezy number with enough kick in its step to overcome the poorly delineated melody riding on top of it. The sublime and the irritating do battle a number of times elsewhere, too. It's a weird juxtaposition to listen to LonbergHolm's rich, beautiful cello buzzing in the background of \"Windshield,\" contrasted against Marque trying to pick a fight with a melody five times his size. Unfortunately, Marque's shortcomings as a performer get the best of him more often than not, and Get There suffers accordingly. At barely a halfhour long, his debut offers a sketch of a talent that's still in the making one that might be best off offering his words to another singer. Matt Marque has certainly surrounded himself with the right people to make an excellent record; perhaps next time he'll be able to iron out his personal wrinkles enough to carry his music to its fullest realization. "}