{"label":" iMusic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5050/homepage_large.6f6792fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Johnny Marr / The Healers","title":"Boomslang","text":" Johnny Marr carved quite a niche for himself following The Smiths' timely late80s demise, enjoying cushy guest spots on Talking Heads and Pet Shop Boys albums before bolstering his singular critical renown with a pair of hugely successful collaborations. But as with The Smiths, the glory of The The's 1989 breakthrough Mindbomb and its crucial 1993 followup Dusk belonged to Matt Johnson, and with New Order still on the ascendant, Bernard Sumner soaked up much of the attention lavished on Electronic, among the first bigname acts to incorporate its namesake with traditional pop.One of precious few unique rock guitarists to speak of since Hendrix reinvented the instrument, Marr has languished for decades in the shadows of frontmen. While he's wrestled with the benefits critical acclaim and financial security, sans all the invasive celebrity bullshit anonymity has also eaten away at his pride, causing blowups with all members of The Smiths and an infamous appetite for drugs that's sidelined him twice.For all Marr's seen in his twentyyear career in rock (and don't try to tell me \"What Difference Does It Make?\" is a pop song), he's never succumbed to the everpresent temptation to go it alone. A Name, with both critical standing and a massive fanbase, Marr must have turned down countless offers to churn out bullshit solo albums over the years. Even during the threeyear lull between Dusk and Electronic's Raise the Pressure a time when he could've used the cash Johnny resisted temptation. You'd think disasters like The Seahorses and Hurricane #1 would only have hardened his resolve, but incredibly, Marr's not only made the same mistake, he's made the same fucking album!The notsosecret desire of all Lead Guitarists to channel both Page and Plant has got to be kept in check, under wraps, or better yet, locked in a bank vault at the bottom of the Atlantic, because every time this stupid fantasy gets out, it wreaks havoc on otherwise genius musicians. Marr offers nothing in the way of inventive guitar on Boomslang, a disc of barre chord throwaways you'd only expect from demos leaked by an unscrupulous associate. Positively pillaging Oasis and The Stone Roses (whom Oasis pillaged in the first place), Johnny Marr + The Healers' mediocre debut is a defeated regurgitation of danceable Britpop and Madchester traditions that, in its best moments, recalls a secondrate... Soup Dragons. Sadly, I'm serious.\"The Last Ride\" is a lesser sibling to that epic Oasis opener, \"D'You Know What I Mean?\", sounding not unlike a knockoff done for a lowbudget commercial. \"Need It\", his most noticeable nod to The The, is probably the most unintentionally depressing song on Boomslang, a decelerated, druggedup retake on \"Rusholme Ruffians\" that goes nowhere for six straight minutes; without the carnival lunacy and Moz swagger of that classic cut, this rockabilly shuffle dies a slow death, dragged down by Marr's barely conscious Jim Reid impression.Boomslang has the most in common with The Stone Roses' disastrously derivative sophomore LP, Second Coming, a sonically overstuffed rehash of psychedelic rock riffs. \"InBetweens\" is exactly as baldfaced a perjury of \"Voodoo Chile\" as the Roses' \"Love Spreads\", while \"Long Gone\" though owing something to Stevie Wonder's \"Superstitious\" flops in much the same way as \"Ten Storey Love Song\". Naturally, Johnny includes some tunes designed to remind us of his dancebeat Electronic past, but his breathy moan runs into a wall. That wall is named Bono. Aside from the vox on \"You Are the Magic\" a pointless seven minutes written in the studio over an unimaginative drumbeat the record's finale \"Bangin' On\" sounds exactly like U2's \"Elevation\", and without its great chorus; it absolutely destroys Boomslang, leaving you to conclude that Johnny Marr cannot stand on his own two feet.Without a frontman to inspire him a megalomaniac to draw away the cameras, the critics, and consequently, the pressure Marr is unable to create more of the stunning, original guitar progressions he made his name on. Dragged down by the fear of stamping his name on the record cover, Marr offers up an emotionless tribute to his favorite songs of the last ten years, hoping to slide by without asking anything of his audience. In the process, he completely misses the nature of his fame, disappointing adoring fans who followed this dark horse as the sun shone from so many assholes.  "}