{"label":" Gold Standard Laboratories","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5052/homepage_large.5ed075e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"The Mars Volta","title":"Tremulant EP","text":" \"Three tracks. Seven dollars.\" As a dirt poor student, the thought stung like hornets chasing the halfmelted Big Kat bar in my cargo shorts. Would the CD contain a coupon for a free egg at the local Faberge Hut? Was it handetched? I sighed. One of the greatest triumphs (indirectly) of the Industrial Revolution had been that, thanks to the wonders of massproduction, I never had to pay more than, like, $1.50 per song until today. Staring at the sevendollar EP I held in my hands made that bygone era of childlabor, workplace fatalities, and people who lit cigars with Cnotes (like the Monopoly Guy) seem like a wonderful, wonderful pipe dream. Audiogalaxy! Why hast thou forsaken me in my hour of need? But, as the old saying goes, \"A fool and his money are soon parted for the new Tremulant EP by The Mars Volta.\" As I put down the greenbacks, these guys including Cedric Bixler and Omar Rodriguez of At the DriveIn fame instantly had one strike against them. I'll be honest. If the album sucked, paying seven dollars for three tracks would make it suck so much harder, and even if it were really good $2.33 per song good three tracks would just be a tease. I tossed and turned all night, imagining Bixler & Co. having a friendly cash fight in their McDucklike vaults, but then figured that if that were the case, they'd have been able to afford decent haircuts by now. Regardless, my expectations for this disc were high. Skepticism struck first, but luckily, the thrashing, distorted guitar lacerations and numbing, effectsdriven interludes on Tremulant form a pretty convincing counterargument. The influence of At the DriveIn is immediately evident, unsurprisingly, and The Mars Volta seems to pick up where their old band left off. Gone are previous missteps like the awkward spokenword beat poetry jams and allout howling Bixler has been so prone to in days past, distilling their sound to its most brutal immediacy. Ironically, The Mars Volta has a leaner, meaner edge despite the fact that almost half of this album's nineteen minutes are spent on aimless, noodling instrumental segments. Funny enough, these have been touted as \"freejazz entropy\" and \"like Can\" by the label's website, so logic says I, a contemporary indie thug, should like them. Maybe even more than the other stuff. But nope, you read right: aimless, noodling. I mean that. Aside from the two minutes of straight tape hiss that start the disc, \"Cut That City\" and \"Concertina\" manage to keep the solotype material presentable, although the final minutes of \"Eunuch Provocateur\" nearly enter the dreaded realm of jamband jackin' around. The guitar interaction in these trippedout effectstorms is often interesting and complex, and they're actually just fine within the scope of this EP, but they could easily drain all the vitality from the EP if it weren't for Jon Theodore's absolutely stellar drum work. Even when Tremulant seems lost in a mire of screeching distortions and echopedaling, a constant undercurrent of desperate urgency is preserved by the frantic drive of Theo's shifting tempos. The musical intensity is matched capably by Bixler's vocals, which have wisely been somewhat reined in; it's like having all the intensity of At the DriveIn with 20% less pretense. He gives an impressive performance, but it's what he's saying that makes Tremulant really shine. The content of the EP has a surprisingly global feel to it, and is a drastic departure from the personal trials and tribulations that formed the basis of his prior work. In just three songs, topics range from urban stagnation to personal betrayal to political upheaval, while Bixler drops fiftycent words like Martha Stewart's stockbroker on an insidetip selling spree. The strangely streamofconsciousness composition makes phrases like \"The labefaction is venal\" and \"NeoCaesaristic phallic ruins\" sound like excerpts from an unpublished Burroughs cutups project or a Mensa Mad Libs party, but amazingly, it works. But be warned! The Tremulant EP gets an even 7.0 one for each dollar I paid for it by virtue of quality, but I still wish I had a month's supply of ramen instead. But hey, if you simply must keep tabs on the latest ATDI projects, the nervy, tensionfilled grooves and hooks should satisfy. Just know that this EP heralds good things on the horizon, and wait patiently for the sixtydollar fulllength. "}