{"label":" Carpark","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5062/homepage_large.b1fd5777.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Malcolm Seymour III","artist":"Takagi Masakatsu","title":"Pia","text":" Capitalism's latest affront on human intelligence: oxygen bars. Just when we thought designer water had pushed consumerism to the limits of its frivolity, someone discovered they could sell air by putting it in a fancy package. I guess we should have seen it coming. For years, the same fauxconnoisseurs have been thronging to Starbucks, throwing their money away on factorymade caféculture aesthetics, attractive branding and \"gourmet\" coffee. Marketing weasels can dress anything up in a clever wrapper and reap enormous profits from America's undiscriminating public. Hardly anybody knows what good coffee tastes like, much less good water or air people pay for the illusion of sophistication, and seldom for the product itself. The world of IDM is not immune to this phenomenon. The recent proliferation of laptop jockeys has left a lot less room in the genre for innovation, and the result has been an interminable output of insipid, uninspired rot. This is not to say that nothing good has come out of leftfield electronica in the last several years; just that it's been imitated ad nauseum, and some listeners don't know enough to draw the line between the originators and the pretense. Takagi Masakatsu's Pia, an innocuous atmospheric excursion in the vein of Pete Namlook's FAX label, is the sonic equivalent of canned air. There's really nothing of substance here, but the void is concealed by elegant production and the hallmark inaccessibility of electronic minimalism. This may suffice to satisfy simpler audiences, and I wouldn't be surprised if elsewhere this album met with critical acclaim. Minimalism is, after all, en vogue right now. But I can't get past this record's vapid predictability. This album operates on a conventional formula in ambient music, layering digitally processed light white noise over ethereal synth pads and played out samples. Masakatsu runs through the entire catalog of stock newage sounds running water, a rooster crowing, chirping birds and talking children. Don't forget the talking children. Nothing suggests artistic enlightenment like talking children. Occasionally, Pia reaches beyond mediocrity. \"Bienna,\" with its strangely inverted refrain and intricate stereo manipulation, recalls latterday Fennesz. It's a far cry from original, but at least challenges the listener at a more thoughtful level than the rest of the album. \"Guiter\" introduces a stronger element of musical structure, spreading soft, coherent melodies over percussive jolts of static. But the rest of the album scrolls by like a nebulous grey mass of experimental cliches. Pianos, sounds from nature, selfindulgent moments of contemplation and profundity you name it, it's probably here. And I hope I haven't forgotten to mention the talking children, who crop up on a total of three songs (\"Eau,\" \"Videocamera\" and \"Caroc\"). The package comes with an additional disc of \"enhanced media,\" which features five audio/video pieces created by Masakatsu. The pieces are of a similar minimalist nature in many respects, and have apparently been presented in Japanese art galleries. But while these pieces are pleasing enough aesthetically, I can't picture myself sliding it into my CDROM drive very often.Pia, in all of its inoffensive tedium, would certainly be at home on the speakers of an oxygen bar. It works fine as wallpaper too understated to scare anyone off, too abstract to be readily transparent. But any judicious listener who subjects this record to sincere scrutiny will find that it comes up lamentably shallow. "}