{"label":" Kindercore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5073/homepage_large.bc2164f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Masters of the Hemisphere","title":"Protest a Dark Anniversary","text":" I should start by apologizing to Masters of the Hemisphere, as they hit the top of my review pile about a year too late. There was a time when I was crazy in the coconut for the kind of skyblue sundress pop the band peddles, scooping up anything with the serpentine Elephant 6 logo or by a band whose name could have been lifted from the lyrics to \"Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite.\" At their best, these acts seemed to tap into the unrealized potential of late 60s singalong psychedelia, and the possibilities seemed endless. Well, endless ain't what it used to be, and unless I'm just getting cynical (a reasonable possibility) anything the Beach Boys and Beatles didn't get a chance to say may now have been officially said. Elephant 6 is in shambles: Olivia Tremor Control has split into two inferior entities; Apples in Stereo has attained their lifelong goal of becoming cartoons; Jeff Mangum is a drug casualty with followup fear. But that doesn't matter to labels like Kindercore who continue pumping out competent but unexceptional collections of catchy, sunny tunes. Take Protest a Dark Anniversary, for example, an album that's far from terrible, even fairly enjoyable at times, but an album with absolutely nothing to separate it from the rest of the worker ants in the pop music colony. This appraisal is supported by the number of \"element x sounds like band y\" statements I can construct from the eleven songs within, in timehonored lazy critic fashion. For example, singer Sean Rawls sounds a heckuva lot like Matthew Sweet with a weaker high range, while other singer Brendan Mead could be Kevin Barnes on a lowsugar diet. The flute solo of \"Anything, Anything\" is reminiscent of the Essex Green, and the brass section of \"Take Time\" harvests the same thin, reedy sound of Elf Power hornwork. And so on. If you're keeping score at home, you'll notice that all the above influences are themselves artists proudly sporting late 60s sensibilities, suggesting (correctly) that Masters of the Hemisphere are a further dilution of the original inspirations. Despite the cocky name and intriguingly mysterious album title, the quartet's mood rarely varies from starryeyed romanticism to paraphrase Phillip Seymour Hoffman impersonating Lester Bangs, there's absolutely nothing controversial about them. We're talking irritatingly gauzy songs about girls named Diane and Jenny, a song in waltz time about waltzing (\"Sailboat Kite\"), and positivethinking slogans like \"Everybody's writing songs/ In hopes that you might sing along.\" But I'll reiterate that MOTH (cool acronym, at least) have a knack for melody, even if the songs stick about as well as secondhand scotch tape. In the battle of the two frontmen, Mead's songs tend to stand out, if only because he's not afraid to use a couple minor chords on \"Rules of Life\" and \"Local Government.\" \"In the Morning\" lingers amongst the shortterm memory centers a little longer, thanks to a jumpy bass line that almost almost gives the band a little backbone to work with. These occasional ventures into aboveaverage range make me feel a little guilty about using their album as a platform for my State of the Pop World Address, but the fat part of the bell curve majority of Protest a Dark Anniversary models the flaws of the genre all too well. Overly familiar and comfortable staying along the beaten path, it's the kind of record that serves primarily as a comparison point by which truly great, boundaryexpanding pop works are judged. Consider it a teaching tool for those looking to start the next tambourinesandRickenbacker band: find a fresh and unique element to add to the mix, or face the collective shrug of pedantic hipsters like myself. "}