{"label":" Vague Terrain","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5085/homepage_large.07ca8a43.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jascha Hoffman","artist":"Matmos","title":"Live with J Lesser","text":" At first, I wondered why I had to mail away to an apartment in San Francisco in order to get my hands on Matmos' new live album. Now that I've heard it, I'm filled with speechless understanding. This is not the kind of music you sell in stores, not the kind of music you play if people you love are nearby. It's more like what you'd use to mask the sound of something horrible going on next door, like the frenzied mating of 15foot dragonflies, or a tank convoy being strafed by fighter jets, or the partialbirth abortion of a wild rhinoceros. You might wonder what interest there might be in a live album by a band whose creates their music solely with elaborately programmed digital samples. Fortunately, the band generally forgoes LP recreations in concert, opting instead for largely improvised music. In fact, Matmos strive to keep things interesting onstage, to such a degree that fans may not realize what they're getting themselves into. High, Live & Dirty captures the outcome of some of their live experimentation, such as: ascending speakers to the ceiling with the help of balloons (Paramount Theatre, Oakland, 2001), subjecting turkey calls to wholesale abuse (Union Chapel, London, 1999), electrocuting slinkies (KDVS, UC Davis, 1997), and doing something I do not want to understand with a bucket of oatmeal (KSZU, Stanford, 1998). The San Franciscobased couple (Drew Daniel and M.C. Schmidt) is wellknown for nestling their own raunchy universe of found sounds into glitchedout discobounce, and, some say, saving musique concréte from the dustbin of electronic music history. Notoriously, they'll go anywhere for a good sample, from the liposuction clinic to the sewer and back again. Usually, though, delightful sounds lurk close to home in inflatable blankets, for example, or records, whistles, insects, banjos, or crayfish. In these live shows and radio spots, Matmos attempts to capture some of the soundseeking adventure of their unique studio process, yet the result is strikingly different from their studio sound, not least because here the experimentation is wholly unhinged from any friendly dance grid: very few tracks feature Daniel's trademark moist, irreverent beats and the addition of hardworking genre assassin J Lesser to the wrecking crew will only serve to further alienate the Björk fans. But what's exciting about these tracks is that moment when the distracted labjock feel of the onstage experiment begins to yield to the effortless discovery of a hidden song structure. Yes, song. No matter how vile the raw materials, these three listen for the hook and are ready to sweeten up the chaos when it finally emerges. Of course, this moment often corresponds to when the presequenced rhythm tracks are dropped into the mix. It's a trick Matmos use all the time, and it almost always works. Without this essential component, however, all you have to cling to as a listener is your associations. Better make them as free as possible. "}