{"label":" I and Ear","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5102/homepage_large.da83d189.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Mazarin","title":"We're Already There","text":" If Caribou is electro pretending to be indie rock, then Mazarin is its inverted reflection, and James Mercer is holding the mirror: We're Already There just might change Natalie Portman's life. To see the big picture, we can look to its composition: It starts with the clean, classic stencils of the melodies, older than God's big toe, but since a good melody never goes out of style, they still charm and soothe. An allenveloping buffer of reverb serves for shading; producer Brian McTear got busy with the tortillion and blended those crisp melodic progressions into hazy chiaroscuro. Then out comes a pastelsmeared palette, and the blank spaces fill up with autoharps and analog synths, farfisa, and lap steel, the friggin' ocean for chrissakes. Yep, this is a big record, not quite over the top, but definitely peeking over the rim. The crisp, programmed drums bend Mazarin's sunkissed guitar pop toward the Postal Service side of things, and those lustrous tintinnabulations ringing through the melodies? Trillin' like Calvin. \"The New American Apathy\" winds insistent sleigh bells around a hammering drum track, the distant bass melody boding something enormous about to clamber over the horizon, and then it does: With a dramatic introductory flourish, a bright guitar jangle arcs hugely over the tableau, the drums start to clap and jitter, and Quentin Stoltzfus unleashes a dulcet verse you know by heart from the first jubilant syllable. For real, it's hard to find a track on this record that isn't at once impressive in its craft and deeply lovable on a sensual level; you don't even need to skip around to sing its virtues, you can just go down the track list in order. \"For Energy Infinite\" displays the kind of melodic directness you either love or hate the Strokes for, a jagged pulse careening behind Stoltzfus's \"what me, rocking?\" vocals. \"Another One Goes By\" swoons with cascading autoharp and a melancholy beachblanket guitar lead; \"At 12 to 6\" is an icyhot inverted world; \"Schroed(er)/inger\" suffers from stupid punctuation but makes up for it twittering electro collage within.  If there's a proverbial elephant in the room, it brought five pals, and we all know that an elephant never forgets. So while Mazarin might be too late to break bread with likeminded retropopists from the future like Apples in Stereo and Neutral Milk Hotel, they remember their lessons, from their unaccountable fondness for paisley to their Poundian directive to take old pop and \"make it new.\" The result is a spangled, soaring indie pop record as winning and ambitious as anything else we're likely to wistfully smile over this year, and the hits just keep coming.  "}