{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5104/homepage_large.cb689a3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Rob Mazurek","title":"Sweet and Vicious Like Frankenstein","text":" When a record has two tracks totaling more than an hour, the question arises: Why? What are you doing with all that space? Well, in the case of a drone artist like Daniel Mensch, each halfhour slab meticulously dissects a narrow world of sound, offering the kind of slight changes over time that stand in for theme and variation. Mensch's long lines develop and tweak the central sonic idea, guiding the listener along a narrowly defined emotional path. Then there are the jams. Acid Mothers Temple's Kawabata Makoto took part in a pair of twotrack, hourlong discs last year (Tsurubami's Gekkyukekkaichi and Rebel Powers' Not One Star Will Stand the Night) that were pure, deep space exploration, a chance for copasetic instrumentalists to lock arms and flap into the cosmos. This sort of trip is bound to take a while. Rob Mazurek's Sweet and Vicious Like Frankenstein takes another approach, stitching together a number of discrete sections, each with their own character and mood, into loosely connected patchwork pieces that go on for a while. Here, Chicago Underground Trio and Brokeback member Mazurek puts down his trumpet and steps away from anything resembling jazz to work solely with computer and electronics. Mego is a regular outlet when the younger set of the Chicago avantgarde wants to step out and try something more abstract and digital, and Sweet and Vicious Like Frankenstein is a very Mego record. Mazurek mixes field recordings, primitive sound machines, and loads of computergenerated sound into pieces that seem a bit like travelogues. \"Body Parts (Spectral White)\", which runs for 37 minutes, reminds me a bit of KLF's Chill Out the way it seems to roam from place to place without really going anywhere. Sounds streams past hissing pipes, whispery drones, aquatic gurgles, metallic scrapes and then, for a minute or two, there will be a lyrical keyboard passage with an ambient gloss that seems pulled from a record of twee bedroom IDM. There are a few nice little instrumental songs buried in this lengthy passage of meandering (but often interesting enough) noise, and a lot of silence, too. Either minutelong stretches are too quiet to be heard or there's just the sound of the furniture. There's loads of dynamic range, which perhaps exists to keep the listener tethered to the sound. During patches of boredom, however, it's easy to lose track of what's happening. \"Electric Eels (In Half Light)\" has a different vibe, darker and ultimately a hell of a lot louder. Mazurek evidently spent a fair amount of time with a DAT capturing the sound of industry, because all sorts of chugging machines can be found here, mixing with his comparatively tiny, computergenerated squall. The track wanders through several levels of blackened, sparklit snapshots of the factory floor and then eventually hits a noisy state of bliss, with its final eight minutes given over to a punishing highend howl of distortion. Listening to \"Electric Eels (In Half Light)\" yesterday, I had the odd revelation that this kind of track is actually much more effective in a live setting, where the volume can be controlled and there's no choice but to immerse yourself completely in the sound. It's an impressively textured harmonic squall, but the desire to reach for the stop button can be too great, especially when you've been sitting with the record for almost an hour. Sweet and Vicious Like Frankenstein is likewise more of an \"event\" record, rather than something to reach for with any regularity. It's occasionally dull but has a few great moments and some impressive dynamic shifts. Still, an hour of your life is a lot to ask. "}