{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5105/homepage_large.5646a013.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Loren Connors","title":"The Departing of a Dream, Vol. II","text":" How much the second volume of guitarist Loren Connors' The Departing of a Dream differs from the first depends a lot on how closely you want to listen. On the surface, Vol. II is very much of a piece with its predecessor, characterized by its by vast, quiet spaces, unhurried compositions, and an overall sense of dread and despair. The instrumental makeup is pretty much identical Connors is credited with guitars, tapes and sounds and Volume II seems very much like a continuation. But the details and proportions here have been shuffled, and if you get down and listen closely enough, this a different kind of record.The first thing you'll notice is that Connors spends a bit more time here on the \"tapes\" and \"sounds\" and a bit less on the guitar. Field recordings form the essential character of many tracks. The third track (no titles) has only a strum or two of guitar and mostly consists of what sounds like a recording of an abandoned field along the side of a busy highway. You can hear the wind through the long grass and the hum of traffic a little ways away, and can almost see the decadeold rusted cans and yellow newspaper scraps tangled in the scrubby underbrush. It's quite an evocative piece considering it was probably recorded on a random afternoon on a Walkman.The sixth track was recorded a bit further into the wilderness, across the woods and into the forest, and this time, at dawn, complete with a cooing mourning dove. The first track has a similarly rich ambient layer with a more industrial bent, but quiet and in the distance. And over the noise Connors layers his plucked, sustained, carefully laid notes.On the tracks without field recordings Departing of a Dream feels familiar. A melody tumbles from Connors' hands with hints of processing and wahwah to make a tone that bubbles up from some waterlogged dream. Once again, Connors is a master of slow instrumental heartbreak, and if you're in the wrong mood, this record can actually be painful to listen to. The seventh track, for example, is a slow pan across a bombedout landscape of emotional devastation, all gurgly tone, bent notes, and shapeless melody.The shorter eighth track, which closes this brief (31minute) album, has a warmer, sunnier cast, which somehow makes things even worse. The suggestion of hope and renewal seems like a prelude to another shattering reality somewhere in the blurry future. If you're sad and anxious you have a friend in Loren Connors.  "}