{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5106/homepage_large.9cc18ebf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Loren Connors","title":"The Departing of a Dream","text":" Like fellow traveler Roy Montgomery, New Englander Loren Connors (who, until the release of this record, recorded as Loren Mazzacane Connors) has dedicated his life to exploring the emotional possibilities of the guitar, having released more than 30 albums in the last 25 years. While Connors' work varies in style, he's a master of quiet, meditative pieces for electric guitar, and this is his approach on The Departing of a Dream.The makeup of the music is simple enough. Connors' guitar receives some reverb and equalization, the latter mostly a gentle roll off the high end, imparting a distinctly subaquatic tone. He makes disorienting use of the wahwah pedal, deploying it much as Miles Davis did, to destabilize long, drawnout phrases. And then there are some assorted effects, scraping sounds as such, added for color. Enhancing the unsettling atmosphere, the album was recorded in a very 'natural' environment, with plenty of room noise and tape hiss, and with the VU meters well up into the red, lending the glow of analog distortion to what is essentially a very sparse record.This is without question one of the most focused and singleminded records you are ever likely to hear. Containing ten tracks of slow, murky electric guitar tones, the mood never budges from the intersection of dread, sadness and exhaustion, and varies only in relative intensity. Describing individual tracks is pointless, as they sound so similar (the first eight are titled \"The Departing of a Dream,\" the last two are a NYC 9/11 tribute called \"the Silence\" and \"and Sorrow.\") The record can only be taken whole.In Connors' favor, it's incredible how palpable an atmosphere he can conjure with so few ingredients. The word 'alien' is overused in music discourse these days, but no other word can describe the uncanny setting of The Departing of a Dream. It truly feels beamed from another realm, a blurry, dizzying world of grainy blackandwhite images and suspended time. The guitar phrasing occasionally hints at melody, but in a way that feels closer to speech than singing, almost like a sixstring recitation of a Gregorian chant. Chords are few; hell, notes are few, gently tumbling out every second or so. This music sounds like meditation.And that's important to note. This album comes from and is geared toward solitude more than any album in recent memory; it almost seems obscene that this might be listened to by more than one person at a time. An album so completely gripped by a crushing sense of loneliness should probably carry some kind of warning label, to turn away people who actually socialize. In any case, this beguiling record is definitely a specialty item.  "}