{"label":" Thirsty Ear","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5131/homepage_large.0b8bb38f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Meat Beat Manifesto","title":"At the Center","text":" Meat Beat Manifesto main man Jack Dangers has made a career out of continually being at the forefront of electronic music. From his early industrialtinged material with thencollaborator Johnny Stevens, to explorations of triphop, house, jungle, dub, and beyond, Dangers has never remained in one place for too long. At the Center, his first full length of allnew material since 2002's RUOK?, continues the evolution by combining his signature breakbeats and samples with jazz provided by flutist Peter Gordon, drummer Dave King, and keyboardist Craig Taborn. From start to finish, At the Center covers a wide range of moods. The disc begins with \"Wild\", a slow, slinking number that builds layers of breaking beats, flute, and organ. It slides almost seamlessly into \"Flute Thang\", which lives up to its name with extensive flute soloing over piano arpeggios and short guitar bursts. \"Bohemian Grove\" has a middleeastern flair, with prominent sitar over string swells, while, \"United Nations Etc. Etc\" evokes Daft Punk with a muffled, bouncy bass line and twisting keyboard noodling. Finally, the disc's closer, \"Granulation 1\", is a creepy combination of haunting background surges and offkilter piano, leaving the listener quite a distance from where he or she began. The album ambles on in an almost hypnotic fashion, sidling from track to track, switching between purely instrumental tracks and ambient soundscapes with vocal samples. Two such tracks, \"Want Ads One\" and \"Want Ads Two\", feature a comical voiceover reading want ads from a newspaper over atmospheric noise. The combination of styles creates balance, and it keeps the listener from getting too comfortable with the disc as a whole. The bulk of the album is jazzfused, however, and the musicians play off of each other superbly, never stealing the spotlight, but never coming off as tacked on either. For this record, at least, Meat Beat Manifesto sounds as much like a band as a single musician, something Dangers has never really done before.  The real strength of At the Center is just how contemporary it sounds. Dangers never succumbs to the temptation to phone it in, and he never relegates himself to simply giving in and playing generic pop music. For an artist to consistently push the envelope for over 15 years is a marvel, yet Meat Beat Manifesto can easily stand shoulder to shoulder with the current round of laptop composers, most of whom are building off of his work in the first place.  "}