{"label":" Blue Note","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5134/homepage_large.450cb443.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Medeski, Martin and Wood","title":"Uninvisible","text":" As cliched and erroneous and controversymongering as it may be, I'm just gonna come right out and say it: jazz is dead. That sound you hear is a thousand jazz afficiados snorting in disgust as they roll their eyes and take another puff on their morning cigar but their opinion is biased and irrelevant anyway. To the rest of the world in the 21st century, jazz exists only as deluxepackaged rererereissues, PBS documentaries, and hiphop sample material. Sure, its influence has sunk into the genetic material of everyone from Tortoise to Tribe, but pure, unhyphenated Jazz has grown into nothing more than a stagnant pond surrounded by a scene that makes indie rock look downright populist. Yet there's still a few postmortem muscle spasms running through the old corpse, most notably the Brooklyn keyboard/bass/drum trio Medeski, Martin, and Wood. Chastised by the jazz community for associating with those godawful hippie jam bands (a genre most jazzbos hold about one notch above Manheim Steamroller and Zamfir), MMW have nonetheless done more than just about any other act in recent years to continue pushing the genre into new fields. Taking the relaxedrules approach to improvisation practiced by the better of the jammy folk, and adding a healthy, nonpatronizing dollop of hiphop to their Tipitina's funk, they've expanded jazz's vocabulary while still appealing to a crowd beyond subscribers to The Wire and regulars down by the Electric Factory. While MMW albums have the tendency to function merely as sketchpads for future embellishment on the concert stage, recent collaborations with producer/engineer Scotty Hard have proved remarkably successful as bona fide Albums. Hard, who's worked with the likes of WuTang Clan and Kool Keith, lent the Caucasian trio enough street cred confidence to experiment with DJs and a raunchy collection of keys on the creepy Combustication, and to teeter on the brink of the noiseosphere on The Dropper. Violating traditional jazz recording laws, MMW used overdubbing (gasp!) and postproduction editing (well I never!) to make an increasingly spacey roar that rarely came unglued from their characteristically tight, deep groove. Sadly, Uninvisible, the third time around the block with Hard, ain't quite got the charm. Not that it's a bad album, or a step back for the band if anything, it's a step sideways, as much of the territory explored sounds like doubling back rather than journeying onwards. \"Your Name Is Snake Anthony,\" with jam band patriarch Col. Bruce Hampton doing the spokenword thing over the band's abstract wallpaper, is Combustication's \"Whatever Happened to Gus\" with lamer poetry. \"Pappy Check\" and \"The Edge of Night,\" both turntable jams with DJ Olive, recall better work with DJ Logic who more easily found the rare chinks in MMW's sound that call for vinyl theatrics. Medeski, meanwhile, seems to have finally run out of keyboards to pound on, having added mellotron, toy piano, and the everpopular \"sequential circuits.\"  The large stable of special guests brought into liven things up also succumb to a bit of a stylistic rut even when the tactic occasionally works, it's merely functional. A full horn section appears with the band for the first time since their more traditional jazzfunk days, but the brass on the title track and \"Nocturnal Transmissions\" is so filtered, faded, and generally fucked about that it resembles the astroMingus of Radiohead's \"The National Anthem.\" Eddie Bobe utilizes a veritable arsenal of percussive oddities against Medeski's miniMoog squiggling on \"Retirement Song,\" a song that tense and itchy as an allergy attack.  Nonetheless, many tracks come off as retreads or ideas freezedried for consumption at the trio's famous exhaustingly intense live shows. I can just imagine the chickenshack organ throwdown \"Smoke\" a lean 2:48 on record being stretched out to the length of a sitcom while smelly kids in the latest hempwear draw curly, imaginary amoebas in the air with splayed fingers. (God, I miss my innocent jam band days.) So while Uninvisible doesn't succeed as a compelling prize copy of the Medeski, Martin and Wood home game, it's still an interesting listen that proves their relevancy in the Real World, rather than the Jazz World. Do you think any other new jazz releases this year will coincidentally use the same pingpong ball sampling effect as the new AntiPop Consortium? Fat chance, Wynton. "}