{"label":" Atmospheriques","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5145/homepage_large.690d6721.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Derek Miller","artist":"Mellow","title":"Perfect Colors","text":" I think Mellow like the Beatles. It's not in their bio or anything, but I think I'm onto something here. Oh, and I think they like Pink Floyd, too. And as long as we're playing wherehaveIheardthisbefore, let's throw Air and Gainsbourg in the mix. OK, yeah, so The Beatles are an obvious critical hingepoint. It's a fair tantrum, but one listen to Mellow's Perfect Colors and you'll understand the need to view the band through the hyperkinetic acidscapes of their forebears a lysergic costume parade fronted by the Walrus, Taxman, and lonely Ms. Rigby. Fortunately for Patrick Woodcock and rest of the neopsych Frenchmen in Mellow, they're quite adept at hero worship. It wasn't always this way: Their 2001 LP Another Mellow Spring was a stillborn genre exercise with a handful of carbon copys. \"Another Mellow Winter\", for example, quoted \"Baby You're a Rich Man\" with enough larceny to bring charges. On their followup, Perfect Colors, Mellow escape the trap of making merely referential music thanks to grand electronic sweeps and plenty of psychparody. The opening title track swoons with Meddleera acoustic guitar and nachtmusik atmospherics. They admit the absurdity in their retroadoration, but their senses of irony, humor, and excess make grand rehashings of shouldbe tired sounds. On the rest of the album, Mellow continue to reform the golden era of psychedelia with postmodern production flourishes that are smooth and cantankerous in all the right places. They twist the leftfield postmillenial world as dreamt by 20th century scifi into cartoonish snapshots that acknowledge their contortions. Here, Woodcock insists, lies the future I fully realize will never be. \"It Was Raining\" is the grotesque Wurlitzerspiked folk song David Gilmour couldn't convince Roger Waters to put on Atom Heart Mother. As that gloomy organ sets the pace for psychotic background mumblings and a classicrock drum roll, Woodcock jokes \"Don't know her name/ So I won't take the blame\" with spacecadet drollery. Somewhere, fellow Frenchmen Nicolas Godin & JeanBenoit Dunckel are checking their back catalogue for missing material. \"In the Meantime\" retreats into a Gainsbourgian ramble, with enough grumbling guitar strokes and amorphous atmospherics to fill its empty spaces. Woodcock's lyricism is an acerbic drift that tackles scientology, drug addiction, and hippie vagrancy. A symphony to misanthropy, its wry understatings centerpiece an album that laughs at its own nostalgia and invites you to do the same. In the end, how much you enjoy Perfect Colors will depend on how much emphasis you place on ingenuity or how much reverence you have for the past. The glamorous thrash of \"Out of Reach\", for example, will be a little too Warholschlock for many, but where else can you hear a grand orchestral intro dissolve into a demonic Orffworthy chorus (\"Drifting Out of Sight/ A Place for Meditation\")? "}