{"label":" Bar / None / Misra","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5156/homepage_large.87ffb6a3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Mirov","artist":"The Mendoza Line","title":"We're All in This Alone","text":" While lacing cheery melodies with poisonous lyrics has long been a successful pop music formula, it takes a particular breed of musician to elevate the juxtaposition to an art form all its own. Elvis Costello and the Smiths would probably be the bestknown practitioners of this craft I'd even go as far as to establish a new microgenre of pessimistic pop. The likes of Quasi, Elliott Smith, and Magnetic Fields would easily make the list. Of course, given such lofty company, you couldn't expect the Mendoza Line to stand out in the crowd, but as alsorans go, you could do much, much worse; over the course of two fulllengths and two EPs, they've proven themselves as a band beholden of an uncanny songwriting intelligence, impressive lyrical aptitude, and the most defeatist attitude since Archers of Loaf imploded. On We're All in This Alone, the Mendoza Line makes a tremendous effort to implode as well. With its sloppy production, halffinished packaging, and comically hyperliterate liner notes detailing the band's many (fictionalized, or at least hyperbolized) interpersonal conflicts, the album reeks of studied underachievement. The sneering woman on the cover looking bored, drunk or both is the perfect visual analog to the album. The songs are still textbook Mendoza Line a mixture of buzzy indiepop and slowpaced, countrytinged ballads but they sound as if the band banged them all out in half an afternoon, as if they couldn't wait to get back to moping around the around the house and bickering passiveaggressively with each other. But while the band attempts to come off as characters in a Neil LaBute play, they end up hitting closer to the High Fidelity mark; at heart, they're just overeducated music geeks most comfortable with expressing themselves through their songs. However hard they try to intentionally annoy be it with the 20second digital hiccup that kicks off We're All in This Alone, their collective trademark style of penning astoundingly bitter lyrics like, \"Strategizing over lunch, the worst starfucker in the bunch/ Your eye for talent never yielded much/ Hey, it pains me watching you compete/ At the slut fair down on Barber Street/ But if you feel it makes your life complete, good luck\" there's a tenderness and a pathos at the core of the band that elicits empathy. \"Idiot Heart\" is a prime example: starting off as Neutral Milk Hotel esque fuzzbashpop with Margaret Maurice's detuned, bored vocals detailing a \"daily production of idiot hearts,\" the song splits itself in half by the end, exposing its saddened, empty insides as Maurice slowly croons, \"I am lost and the only way to find my way is to lose my way.\" As the album progresses, the annoyance factor subsides considerably, and the production even improves a bit. Or maybe the songs just mold themselves better to the production. \"A Bigger City\" oozes midnight melancholy with a lone acoustic guitar and reverbed wistfulness; \"Yoko's in the Band\" is a pretty solid Yo La Tengo imitation with its joyous, roaring distortion and deadpan singing; and \"Where You'll Land\" ends the album with a heartbreaking swoon (\"It's a lonely road that you're choosing to go/ And though it's exciting you'll always end up alone\") that morphs into a battery of mournful piano and horns, and then dissolves into the feedback ether. Begging to be loved, daring to be hated, We're All in This Alone succeeds despite itself, thanks to its clever lines and sticky melodies. Since Pavement packed it in, smug, selfabsorbed slacker snobs everywhere have been without a band to call their own; to my fellow brothers and sisters, I say, look no farther than the Mendoza Line. "}