{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5158/homepage_large.e1b6024d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"The Mendoza Line","title":"Lost in Revelry","text":" \"Who rocks the house? The Saxons rock the house! And when the Saxons rock the house, they rock it all the way down!\" Langley High School Cheerleading Team Not only were the Langley Saxon cheerleaders hot and slutty, but they were also unwitting soothsayers who ever could have predicted that Saxons of the future would so thoroughly rock the house? But in the early 1990s, they did. As grunge exploded nationwide, Langley's Auxiliary Gym played host to a different sort of musical explosion: the limitless pyrotechnic excitement of the Battle of the Bands. At Langley, however, each event seemed much less a \"battle\" than a small episode in a neverending \"War of the Bands,\" as fierce \"Skirmishes of the Bands\" seemed to break out almost every weekend, usually on the same hotly contested turf, and for the same rich $50.00 bounty. Among the regulars in Langley's War of the Bands were stalwart cover artists Spook Jacobs, whose flawless version of Van Halen's \"Jump\" was the weekly neutron bomb that obliterated all other contestants, including, appropriately enough, Ground Zero, featuring the powerful, androgynous tenor of \"Handsome\" Dan Sheridan. There were also the King Fahds, with their indie flair, underdog attitude, and mediocre songwriting ability. In true indie fashion, the King Fahds never won shit. Spook Jacobs, on the other hand, won both shit and fame, piling up victories well into the midtolate 90s. One would have thought that, at the minimum, Spook would be staring at a sweet recording deal by now. But alas, they had to settle for merely regional conquest. Of those not shamed into radioactive dust by the Spooks' atomic force were two graduates of Langley's class of 1991, Tim Bracy and Pete Hoffman (who undoubtedly remember all three bands), and a parttime contributor to their band, and likewise Langley alum, Paul Deppler. As far as I know, none of them ever enlisted in the War. So much the better. Instead, Bracy and Hoffman created their own musical insurgency, an indie pop outfit known as the Mendoza Line. Now on their fourth LP, the Mendoza Line has gained a reputation for rootsy, melodydriven pop/rock. That reputation certainly won't change with Lost in Revelry, but as long as they're being formulaic, they're doing a fine job. The majority of the album's highlights come courtesy of the songwriting tandem of Bracy and Hoffman, whose maturity as songsmiths is notable this record is consistently concise, punchy and poignant. The album's superb populist clapalong opener, \"A Damn Good Disguise,\" stands out as the best song on the disc, and is emblematic of the Mendoza Line's sound; two parts Westerberg, one part Wilco. The band shifts into a lower gear for \"The Triple Bill of Shame,\" a raspy, rustic tune that delivers a heap of emotion and a load of nifty rhymes (\"And you were once of interest/ To the nightly news and the daily press/ But now that you've outlived your uselessness/ Do you know what doesn't happen next?/ They all call you by your number, they won't call you by your name/ On the triple bill of shame\"). Mendoza compadre Shannon Mary McArdle doesn't fare quite as well. McArdle, who first appeared on 1999's I Like You When You're Not Around, plays a more prominent role on Lost in Revelry, writing five songs for the album, and singing lead vocals on each of them. Great as a backup vocalist, McArdle could use a little help with the guitar and pen. A few of her songs are decent (\"Red Metal Doors\"), but others, like the quasicountry of \"Something Dark,\" and the snorealong \"I'm That!\" (the exclamation point is pure irony) beg for the skip button. Long has the War laid dormant, but the Mendoza Line has renewed their assault, hoping that one day, ultimate triumph will forge an era of peace between the bands. Unfortunately, this assault, while effective, leaves them without complete victory. The house, while rocked, still stands. "}