{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5161/homepage_large.cb4e1dc1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"The Mendoza Line","title":"Full of Light and Full of Fire","text":" In the eight years since the Mendoza Line released their brilliant debut, Poems to a Pawnshop, a lot has changed for the band. The group moved from the indie music Mecca of the south Athens, Georgia to Brooklyn, while at the same time the shaggyhaired style of that debut rollicking guitars, catchy leads, singalong choruses and slightly offkey harmonies has been marginalized in the current indie landscape. Over that time, the Mendoza Line have slid toward altcountry while retaining a great deal of their initial charm. Seventh album Full of Light and Full of Fire isn't exactly a concept record, but it's definitely held together by a few running lyrical themes. Songs bounce between narratives about love and loneliness and more sociopolitcal topics such as women's rights in Saudi Arabia and President Bush. Fortunately, band's primary songwriters, Shannon McArdle and Timothy Bracy, are adept at presenting heavy topics with a light hand. Nothing here feels like soapboxing; instead, the lyrics are subtle and poignant, with as much emphasis on storytelling as dissent. The songs addressing more personal matters are especially affecting. \"Water Surrounds\" deals with a single mother suffering from postpartum depression who is afraid to tell anyone how she feels. McArdle's delicate voice gives life to the lyrics, and the sadness surrounding the song's narrator is apparent. On \"Settle Down Zelda\", Bracy sings of a fiery, lifehardened woman dealing with the hand that's been dealt to her. Perhaps she finds the right companion in the end, however, as Bracy croons, \"Hey baby it don't mean shit to me/ That you got a history/ God knows that we've both been around,\" in his typically nasal fashion.  Musically, the disc runs the gamut from slow, dusty ballads to tight, barroom rock songs. \"Rat's Alley\" recalls the Pretenders' \"Middle of the Road\", and slaps catchy acoustic leads over upbeat, jangly indie rock. \"Golden Boy (Torture in the Shed)\" is a driving, midtempo beast, with squealing, noisy guitars and a drumbeat that relies almost solely on snare drum. McArdle's stark vocals are front and center, demanding attention. One of the best assets the band has is the dueling male/female vocals, best exemplified on closer \"Our Love Is Like a Wire\", a tender love song about an elderly couple recounting the years they've spent together. The applause that begins and ends the track conjures visions of couples like Johnny and June Carter Cash, singing to one another, almost oblivious to the crowd in front of them. It's a sweet end to a disc full of songs of bitterness, loneliness, and disillusion. "}