{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5173/homepage_large.d7cbf3ad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Stephin Merritt","title":"Showtunes","text":" Truth be told, I more or less gave up on musical theater when Lola gave me a concussion during a 5th grade production of Damn Yankees. After regaining consciousness in the nurse's office, I decided that musical theater was too stylized, too rigid, and too corny to justify such physical hazards. Years later, prejudices still intact, I first discovered the music of the Magnetic Fields, right around the release of their hugely successful 3xCD 69 Love Songs. Not since that fateful grade school play had I fallen so hard so fast. Aside from being artful, clever, and stylistically diverse, 69 Love Songs managed to be profoundly moving without falling back on dour poetauteur poses. Soon, I found myself singing along in a voice I hadn't used for a long time; clearly, I had made the kind of error in judgment that only comes of blunt head trauma. While Showtunes is technically Magnetic Fields frontman Stephin Merritt's first time writing music for the stage, his work has always drawn extensively from musical theater, both in style and in concept. 69 Love Songs was originally conceived as a stage play, and probably warranted a producer credit for Merritt; aside from writing and arranging the album, Merritt cast a number of extremely talented singers to perform several of his songs. Showtunes, a collection of 25 songs written by Merritt for three plays directed by Chen ShiZheng, features several of the same vocalists Merritt recruited for 69 Love Songs, and the strongest melodies Merritt has penned since that album's release.Showtunes is an oddly sequenced collection, jumping between songs from the three MerrittShiZheng collaborations. As such, it is extremely difficult to discern how Merritt's songs fit within the broader narratives of these three plays; I can only assume that the emphasis here is meant to be placed squarely on the songs themselves. As is to be expected, Merritt's arrangements are impeccable, making excellent use of traditional Chinese instruments as well as marimba, steel drum, and ukulele. That said, I'm not entirely convinced that this is the best way to present these songs; the livesounding recordings don't always bring out the full force of the material, and create a sense of continuity that is only undercut by the album's sequencing. Merritt's contributions to the two narrative plays adapted by ShiZheng prove to be the strongest songs on Showtunes. The twopart \"Shall We Sing a Duet?\" from Peach Blossom Fan is my personal favorite. Merritt's word choice is playful and precise, clever in its rhymes and syntax but ruthlessly effective in the story and emotions conveyed. Progressing from simple alternating verses to a serpentine round structure to a stunning lone verse sung in harmony, \"Shall We Sing a Duet?\" tells a story through its words, its melody, and its form. Vocalist Shirley Simms absolutely nails her verses, offering probably the best vocal performance on Showtunes. \"Sounds Expensive\", excellently performed by David Patrick Kelly, narrates the tragicomic romantic history of an emerald ring, Kelly hitting every dramatic pause with perfect aplomb. Selections from My Life as a Fairy Tale, a nonnarrative stage adaptation of the works of Hans Christian Andersen, prove more uneven. \"The Top and the Ball\" and \"Auntie Toothache\" both charmingly narrate conflicts between inanimate objects, the latter unexpectedly segueing into a terrifying tale of dentistrythemed torture. There are a few clunkers, though; \"The Little Hebrew Girl\", \"The Ugly Little Duck\", and \"The Little Maiden of the Sea\" are awkward and overlong. Given that My Life as a Fairy Tale is a series of vignettes, the comparative length of these songs makes sense, but it's disappointing that Merritt didn't do more with such rich source material. In the wake of 69 Love Songs, Merritt appeared consistently irked by questions of which songs were autobiographical, and rightfully so. One of Merritt's greatest strengths is his ability to write coherent and compelling voices into his songs, no autobiographical justification required. I'm a bit disappointed that Showtunes isn't better suited to showcase this particular strength, but the songs themselves are nothing to scoff at. Though these songs are a bit more stagey than the bulk of Merritt's work, the difference is one of degree, not character. In a sense, Merritt has always been writing showtunes; only now, there are shows that go with them.  "}