{"label":" Acuarela","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5210/homepage_large.20596102.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Migala","title":"Restos de un Incendio","text":" There was a time in my life when I could actually speak Spanish. And I don't just mean asking where the bathroom was or where I could find the nearest autobus stop I was full into verb tenses and could actually understand the soap operas on Telemundo (shocked when it turned out Juanita's baby was actually Raul's). This was all in high school, and years of disuse and neglect have made my Spanish skills rustier than a Gary, Indiana steel mill. My vocabulary has dwindled back down to words like 'agua', 'gato', and 'burrito', and I'm supremely frustrated looking over the tracklist on this Migala album. I know I've seen these words before, but I can't remember what most of them mean. As it turns out, I don't really have to. Perhaps as a writer it might be useful, but as a listener, it's irrelevant these six Spaniards make music that could crush you if you had never known any Spanish at all, and on the occasion that frontman Abel Hernandez breaks out his dusty baritone, he does it in heavily accented English for the edification of the monolingual majority in the world's largest music markets. This particular album is an odd beast from a marketing standpoint, playing like something of a bestof, as the band have taken the time to reexamine their back catalog and give some of it another go. Restos de un Incendio (Remains of a Fire, as in \"ashes\" love those BabelFish translations) consists of songs from the band's first three fulllengths, rerecorded and rearranged by a more skillful, confident band. As a result, it's not as unified or focused as last year's stunning Arde, but it's the boldest sounding record they've yet released, and a pretty damn fine introduction to their early work. Whether they're playing instrumentals or vocal songs, Migala's music develops slowly, unfolding in ecstatic waves of sound, adding a droning accordion here, a gigantic Sergio Leone guitar there, and building each song to a beautiful climax. The unbelievably passionate guitar work of \"Aquel Incendio\", layered against a man's speaking voice that sounds recorded off the television provides what might be the single most wrenching piece of music I've heard all year. \"Tiempos de Distastre\" gathers intensity in its opening verses before finally giving way into a drenching rush of accordion, drums, cymbals, and wildly strummed guitars that effectively sweeps away all the anxiety, before returning you to the final verse, which in turn builds to another rapturous climax. The somber organs that introduce \"Intrucciones Para Dar Cuerda a un Reloj\" recall the elegant melancholy of early Tindersticks, before a man's voice intones what sound like a set of instructions in Spanish. The use of the man's clinical cadence only heightens the emotion of the band's playing, as they gently build and recede, ultimately fading out.Restos proves the men in Migala to be masters of the melancholy strain and deft tuggers of emotional strings. The only beef I've got with it is that, in maturing skillwise and revisiting their old material, the band have lost some of the sonic adventurousness that made Arde so brilliant and effective. With any luck, that'll be back on their next release, and an older, more adept Migala might even top their work on that record. For now, Restos is an entirely worthy new look at where the band has been before, and I like what I see. "}