{"label":" Acuarela","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5212/homepage_large.04c76bbd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Migala","title":"La Increíble Aventura","text":" In these days of downloading and filesharing, it's not uncommon for a band or label to augment an album with extra features, usually in the form of some multimedia content on the disc, like a video for the lead single, or a \"making of\" rockumentary. It's a good way to get people interested in actually buying the physical record when they could probably get it for free, though a lot of times you have to question whether or not the extra content even took any effort to compile. Spain's Migala and the Acuarela Discos label have apparently figured out the whole \"valueadded\" concept, as they've gone and included a whole DVD with La Increíble Aventura, the band's fifth album (counting Restos de un Incendio, which reworked a number of their old songs for U.S. release). The disc contains a distinct video for every song on the album, including the untitled 50second interlude track. They range from beautiful and evocative to just plain puzzling, but watching them greatly alters one's perception of the album, as they flesh out and occasionally offer counterpoint to the moody songs Migala have cooked up here. From the start, it's clear that this is Migala's darkest album, and its mostly instrumental format separates it even further from the band's past output. At first, it seems the band is building to some sort of political statement, titling the opening song \"El Imperio de Mal\" (\"The Evil Empire\"), but as the tribal drumming and chanting of the intro peels back, they insert not a sample of some American politician, but of Darth Vader calling ObiWan Kenobi to his death. This subversion of the music's melancholy tone and the soaring passion of the band's playing occurs several times over the course of the album, and even more often on the DVD the video for \"El Imperio\" features a stopmotion kitchen in the grip of a stroboscopic poltergeist and a coffee pot lifting its lid in unison with James Earl Jones' Vaderisms. With its blaring guitars and cathartic rush of rhythm, \"El Imperio\" is actually one of the album's highlights, and the two vocal tracks, sandwiched together midalbum make for a sublime central plateau. \"Your Star, Strangled\" is gentler than its title, as Abel Hernandez's mellow baritone mixes with hushed harmonica, violin and slide guitar in an arresting nocturnal swirl, while \"El Gran Miercoles\" opens with a long, hushed intro of searching guitars and crashing waves. The video for the song is a grainy 8mm vacation video filmed on a Mediterranean beach, and that hazy recollection is easy to read in the music, as Hernandez whispers lines about the sand beneath his feet while the song grows quieter and quieter, finally giving way to a sample of the waves before the band picks up the baton Godspeed You Black Emperor! dropped on Yanqui U.X.O. and runs with it, a wash of guitars droning triumphantly. The vocal tracks are something of a doubleedged sword for the album as a whole, though, because their quality leaves you wishing for a few more, despite the pleasantness of instrumentals like the propulsive \"Sonnenwende\". The instrumentals have an overall consistency of tone and approach that causes them to bleed together somewhat; the videos perhaps do the most to lend them emotional variety with their footage of slowmotion fireworks, brightly lit carnival rides, flamenco dancers and, er, leatherjacketed guys in tiger masks fighting kungfustyle on a mountain. La Increíble Aventura doesn't quite equal the sheer power and range of the band's best albums (2001's Arde, in particular), but it's a powerful statement nonetheless, capturing one of Spain's greatest exports at their darkest and most ferocious. "}