{"label":" Erstwhile","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5224/homepage_large.19017fcd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt Wellins","artist":"MIMEO / John Tilbury","title":"The Hands of Caravaggio","text":" The very name MIMEO (abbreviated from the somewhat pretentious moniker Music In Movement Electronic Orchestra) makes it clear technology is on this collective's mind. After all, it's relatively universal, and unlike other social and political topics (or even atrocities), the forcefulness and violence of impending technology isn't something we have the luxury of ignoring. MIMEO's specific intent is the integration of acoustic and digital music, not necessarily as a comfortable cohesion, but more in hopes of defining a collective fixedly engaged in musical dialogue. Examples range from a 24hour length performance given last year, to Electric Chair + Table, a doubledisc recording of improvisations with the final say on each disc given to Rafael Toral and Marcus Schmickler, respectively.The Hands of Caravaggio is the sound of thirteen incredibly adept and inspired musicians thinking about the speed, memory, and ready accessibility of technology, and its application. It would be a tragedy to reduce this album to a simple 49minute exercise in academic rhetoric there was clearly so much thought given to issues like digital interchange, the art of Caravaggio, and the concerto form that I'm conflicted whether or not to discuss the more theoretical side at all, or just ignore it in favor of the absolutely glorious, usurping clamor the group are capable of producing.Composed by AMM founding member Keith Rowe a man with three decades of constantly challenging and deeply thoughtful music The Hands of Caravaggio is a graphic score based on a recently rediscovered Caravaggio painting. To Rowe, the painting seems to embody the spontaneous but deliberate gestures that have preoccupied him for most of his career. Further connections are more or less left up to the listener, but there is no doubt that a central ingredient of constantly shifting, careful progress is responsible for a recording of such enormous, dynamic approach.The proceedings are carried out by a group of musicians already noted for their forwardthinking work in electronic music. The list is extensive. Kevin Drumm (replacing usual member Christian Fennesz), whose approach is in some ways similar to Rowe's, uses an electric guitar as a transducer more than as a musical instrument. In recent years, he's opted to use a computer to transform that massive sense of electrical energy into an audible form. Pita, whose work on the Mego label displays an obsessive degree of aural annihilation, where familiar, tangible concrete and instrumental sounds are compressed and expanded into shards of digital noise with its original source looming translucently in the background, is also a member. These names, of course, are no more or less valuable to the recording than Kaffe Matthews, Thomas Lehn, Cor Fuhler, Marcus Schmickler, GertJan Prins, Phil Durrant, Marcus Wettstein, and Jerome Noetinger, all of whom have certainly paid their dues as electroacoustic musicians, and many of which have particularly definitive work on the Erstwhile label responsible for this MIMEO release.Erstwhile's modus operandi is the bringing together of firstrate improvisers that don't normally associate with one another, and on The Hands of Caravaggio, MIMEO is teamed with another third of AMM, pianist John Tilbury. Tilbury is the sole acoustic instrumentalist on the recording, cementing the theoretical approach: exploring the piano concerto form. The instrument maintains a ruling clarity throughout, though at times its pitches and preparations can only be found in what Tilbury aptly describes as \"the nooks and crannies in which their unique resonances find subtle expression.\" Rowe and Tilbury are particularly clearheaded on what they hope The Hands of Caravaggio will achieve. Cor Fuhler is used as a foil to Tilbury's immense talent, simultaneously playing the inside of the same piano that Tilbury is attempting to twist sounds from. The digital sounds of the massive ensemble meet the acoustic piano before it has a chance to get out of the gate.The Hands of Caravaggio is a prickly recording; where a piano concerto used to be an example of human virtuosity, we now see disrupted ideas, doubt, and mechanization in Golemlike velocity. It brims with freshness and the fleeting beauty improvised music rarely achieves, and proudly wears the contributors' reputations on its sleeve.  "}