{"label":" spinART","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5228/homepage_large.e0d24b7f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By D. Erik Kempke","artist":"The Minders","title":"Down in Fall EP","text":" The Minders seem to have divorced themselves somewhat from the Elephant 6 collective since last year's singles compilation, Cul de Sacs and Dead Ends. Or perhaps E6 has distanced themselves from the Minders: no logos on the package, no Robert Schneider production. So, perhaps thankfully, out go my extended comparisons of prominent Elephant 6'ers to their counterparts in '60s pop music. On Cul de Sacs, Martyn Leaper repeatedly demonstrated his sharp instincts for pop songwriting and tight, efficient arrangements. Each song did exactly what it needed to do in two or three minutes. Somehow, though, this fivesong EP fails to gel or show any consistency, despite its brevity. It shows the band making a few tentative steps outside the limitations of their sound, but losing some of their appeal in the process. The group takes over full production chores here, and the tape hiss still present on their last album has since departed. The first track, \"Young and With It\" bears the largest similarity to their previous outings, with its economical guitar work, brisk drums, and chiming keyboards. Sure, it's pleasing, but far from remarkable, and it definitely wouldn't have stood out on their last LP. The next track, \"On and On,\" is better, driven by a pulsating bassline; harmonizing flutes, and dueling harpsichords enter the mix as the song progresses. The problem with Down in Fall as whole becomes apparent with the following song, \"Time Machines,\" an ominous pianodriven track accompanied by an old timemanagement seminar tape. It's interesting, but only serves to derail the continuity. A track like this could work in the context of an LP, but here, it's merely distracting. Based on the music, Down in Fall certainly counts as a minor entry into their discography, but, rather frustratingly, it's the CDROM footage in the enhanced portion that raises the rating a few notches and keeps my interest in the band's future work piqued. Leaper shows off his expanding array of home recording gear, and the patient can listen to him endlessly hem and haw over the pros and cons of home recording. But the footage of the band doing a take on the new songs \"Golden Street\" and \"Light in the Morning\" instantly outshine the tracks on the audio portion. The hooks are here in full force, and the band is far more successful in venturing beyond its peppy pop background. During the interview portion, Martyn Leaper states, \"All of this has already paid for itself,\" indicating his first reeltoreel machine in the corner. So perhaps this is just a way of generating the funds to finish their next album. If so, I suggest you make a contribution through purchasing their earlier records. "}