{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/526/homepage_large.0ba40131.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Derek Bailey","title":"Ballads","text":" John Zorn owns Derek Bailey. The poor old guy has enough to deal with his jazzbo peers are playing it close to trad bop, and the whippersnappers are either copycats of their elders, or are off on some experimental Klezmer triphop tangent. And it's not as if Bailey ever really fit in with jazzbos in the first place, what with the whole idea of 'spontaneous' music and improvising with no preconceived set of parameters, much less precedents. Zorn steps in, makes a few calls, and Bailey ends up playing sets with noisemongers like Ruins, or is somehow booked into sessions making drumnbass records, or playing worldfunk with Ornette Coleman's bassist. Come on, man, let the guy be! But Bailey has been above and beyond the call of jazz duty for a good 40 years now, and his latest Zornprovoked project of playing ultraclassy standards might just be the pendant on his spikysplendored coat of a career. He was playing free jazz in London in the mid60s with Tony Oxley and Dave Holland (before Miles Davis tasted his first crumpet). He formed renowned Incus Records with Oxley and Evan Parker in the 70s when turning skronk into profit was but a twinkle in Zorn's eye. And he's outlasted all but the most shamelessly devoted to the biz by playing an improvised sound so idiosyncratic it effectively defies analytical criticism. Still, there's something to be said about an old dog, new tricks and a lifetime of artistic expression: Ballads is a remarkable record for Bailey. As on recent efforts such as 2000's Mirakle or 1998's Play Backs, the concept places Bailey in a strange context and observes the outcome. However, instead of putting him in a group or adding strange studio effects, the gimmick here is Bailey's interpretations of classic tunes written by the likes of Hoagy Carmichael and Victor Young. Bailey actually started out playing straight ahead small group jazz in the 50s, so this material isn't actually so far from his palette. Furthermore, his acoustic guitar playing is so delicate and sympathetic to the tunes, it's hard to believe he ever left those old standards behind. Bailey's improvisations here are at once impenetrable and immediately familiar. If you've followed his work, you know that he can make his guitars sound as if they were made only for him, and in this case, he actually went to the trouble of finding one that was \"totally inappropriate for playing standards.\" Marc Ribot writes in the liner notes for Ballads that Bailey's playing draws on sources \"far wider than those employed in jazz\" and how his striking sounds \"don't sever the relation of song to improvisation, but [create] deeper, less predictable relations.\" This will undoubtedly come down to the listener, as there were definitely a couple of occasions when I lost track of the standard, and slipped into a world completely of Bailey's making. \"Laura\" opens the CD, as Bailey strums light harmonics, and jumps into David Raskin's rather romantic original melody. The guitarist sounds so at home playing the chords that, though he freely mixes in atonal ornaments, it never really sounds juxtaposed. He sometimes settles on angular figures, breaking the romantic mood, but rather than erase the beauty of the melody, he seems to contemplate it, effortlessly letting his mind wander when it will. If you're used to hearing the Wes Montgomery side of things, this will be a bit disorienting. All of the tunes on this set run together, like a streamofconscious classic pop revue. Johnny Burke's \"What's New\" is born out of the improvisation from \"Laura,\" passing by so quickly you might miss the melody. Even as it segues into \"When Your Lover Has Gone,\" you might still be reveling in Bailey's forceful freestrum of the previous tune. However, he does come down every now and then to reveal the tune's inherently nostalgic, almost cinematic charm only to launch into flighty, jarring figures that wouldn't have sounded out of place on his Ruins albums. This is one of those times you might forget he's playing standards. The most beautiful moments on Ballads come with the completely unexpected instances of clarity in Bailey's improvisations. In \"You Go to My Head,\" after the tune and typically restless commentary, he begins to rest on eerily perfect octaves. Even though he can spend a lifetime following his muse to the chagrin of anyone that ever wanted to break free of convention, Bailey still has the discipline, dedication and love for the sound all around him that he can make simple unison lines speak as resonantly as the most chaotic fanfare of dissonance. Bailey's ability to let the song go where the improvisation takes it while resisting the temptation to veer completely off course is the mark of a true artist, and Ballads is a fine entryway to the appreciation of Bailey's art. "}