{"label":" Spun","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5237/homepage_large.c12dd418.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Ming + FS","title":"Back to One","text":" Ever since their 1999 debut, Hell's Kitchen, Ming + FS have sculpted a sound that strives for the jagged polyphonic hubbub of their native New York. By folding blunted hiphop bounce into the boiling rhythms of drum 'n' bass, they've cranked up a wicked urban aesthetic that moonwalks the line between slick bboy breaks and dark club kid tech. 2002's Subway Series was a peak achievement, and its dubby spaciousness and jazzy rush drew major label acts to the duo's finetuned production skills. Two years later, Ming + FS return with a stylistic balancing act that just doesn't cut as deep. It's a tough position to be in: Clearly, the band's sound is relevant (at least to the Madison Avenue tastemakers at Nissan and Victoria's Secret), but can it appeal to both underground beat hounds and Must See TV trendoids? Ming + FS seem at a loss for an answer this time around Back to One settles for an ambiguous middle ground. Given their tendency towards kitchen sink hybridization, it was only a matter of time before they either broke through with a truly definitive work or slumped into a tepid rekindling of their earlier fire. Which isn't to say Back to One is all tired rehash. Even when they reach back into the hiphop lexicon, as with the witty, alltoobrief beatboxed breakbeat of \"Draw\", the duo exude a fresh playfulness. And when they slow to a sticky, bubbly thump on \"50FT Mole Man\", they build a warm, voluptuous ambiance, but unfortunately can't maintain it. Repeat appearances by MC Napoleon Solo add a modicum of character; his gruff, uncomplicated rhymes are functional and his voice malleable enough to bend to Ming + FS's shifting beatscapes. It's telling that they rely on his vocals on half the tracks I've always been more partial to the group's instrumentals, but the boombip of the smoldering \"Starts Somewhere\" and organled break of \"Skills and Grace\", despite some innovative samples, is built to be rapped over. The pinnacle of this more supportive production technique is \"2092\", a supremely funky, De La Soulful track that eschews the drum 'n' bass for a scratchladen summer joint that doubles as the album's highlight. But Ming + FS's predictable foray into electrofried breaks comes as a disappointment. Opener \"Fish Eyes\" waxes reverb over a bonecrunching, vaguely exotic beat, while the freakish adolescent vocals on \"Big Little Jeffrey\" are plain unsettling. Closer \"Nadia\" digs into stuttering IDM territory in the midst of what could be a shimmering, silky groove; a more cohesive finale would've strengthened the album's overall impact. In the midst of an economic slump, getting paid hardly invites the blow to an artist's integrity it once did. It's hard to blame Ming + FS for digging into what are probably highpaying commercial jobs over the monkish dedication and forwardthinking creativity necessary to produce work as enthralling as their previous albums. Sadly for their fans, every time they do so, the music is bound to suffer. "}