{"label":" Shaking Ray","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/527/homepage_large.057f2120.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Derek Bailey","title":"The Gospel Record","text":" I'm hard pressed to find a kind of music less ingratiated by new music fans than gospel. You'd think that any music containing drums and guitars and feverish singing would find a willing (secular) audience, so perhaps it's the faith that jumbles the translation. Of course, gospelstudded résumés abound in r&b;, but even then, it's generally an aesthetic component of gospel singing rather than actual hymns that makes it the radio. Popular faithbased (okay, Christianitybased) music is out there survey scattered songs Sufjan Stevens, Kanye West, U2, Pedro the Lion but in rock, more generally accepted are an occasional God shout out at the Grammys or the dreaded backing choir, aka Foreigner's and R. Kelly's secret weapon. Something seems amiss. So, when free jazz guys and avantgarde singers come along and put their spin on gospel tunes, I'm struck. British guitarist Derek Bailey is no stranger to covers: Despite almost 50 years of free improvisation, his beginnings were in pop standards with a small jazz combo, and 2002's Ballads found him revisiting that mode, albeit in his uberidiosyncratic style. On The Gospel Record, he joins American composer/vocalist Amy Denio (Science Group, EC Nudes, Billy Tipton Memorial Saxophone Quartet) and synth/sampler improviser Dennis Palmer for a short set of oldtime gospel as in, the kind featured on Smithsonian anthologies or Coen brothers movies and in the process, exposes music ripe for the interpretive plucking. After a short spoken invocation in the slowed down drawl of a surreal Southern preacher, Denio and Palmer harmonize the verses of Albert E. Brumley's \"Let the Little Sunbeam In\" over Bailey's sometimes tonal, sometimes wayout distorted electric guitar. Denio's vocals are clear as day, sounding very much like the star of modest country church, and the trio keeps the original harmonies intact. Bailey's accompaniment is perfect, elegantly suggesting the original chord progression with spiked drones and the occasional shard of dissonance. W. Oliver Cooper and Minzo C. Jones' \"Heaven Will Surely Be Worth It All\" gets a rougher treatment, with Palmer's martial, oppressive drum machine going to battle with Bailey's flickering, pointillist figures. Again, Denio's pure alto seems nonphased by the chaos around, though is kept at bay by the electric storm. Classic Southern hymn \"The OleTime Religion\" is presented as an instrumental and features more pounding drum machine backing Bailey's scattershot lines. Palmer also injects some synth sounds, running the gamut from eerie backwards percussion noises to what sounds like a small UFO taking off. This leads straight into Vep Ellis' \"Joshua Led God's Children\", as Denio's solo vocal is doubled by a rubbery bass patch from Palmer. During the refrain, Denio goes into the stratosphere with her vocals, singing in an unnaturally high register; she ends the song on a high note too, and the reverb from her vocal acts as the song's momentary fadeout. \"I'm Gonna See Heaven\" brings the vocal harmonies back, but is almost completely overtaken by Palmer's stomping, chomping synth and drum machine attack. Bailey is almost buried by the frenzy, though his guitar's overtones punctuate the brief silences in between electrosquelches. Sometimes, the interpretations border on the surreal, though I'm more taken with the whirlwind pace: all of these songs are crammed into just over 14 minutes. The trio ends The Gospel Record with a rare moment of tenderness during the final phrase of \"I'm Bound for the Land of Canaan\", I'm reminded of the traveling sideshows that went through the American South 100 years ago, featuring all manner of decidedly nonsacred entertainments only to close with a group hymn before skipping town. If Bailey, Denio and Palmer have subversive aims, this music succeeds in spite of itself. Hardly irreverent, this is old time religion full made interesting and with more vitality than you can, er, shake a stick at. "}