{"label":" Melodic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5246/homepage_large.86d48e36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Minotaur Shock","title":"Chiff-Chaffs and Willow Warblers","text":" I have a dream. In that dream, there are no names for music. Music just is. You heard me. No country. No rock. No rap, polka, classical or experimental. And certainly, in this dream, there is no such thing as \"electronic music.\" See, one thing I've never really understood is contemporary electronic music's apparent need to separate itself from the rest of the world's music. The insistence of putting the word \"electronic\" in front of the word \"music\" draws a line that needn't exist, frightening away potential listeners and setting in motion certain unnecessary presumptions. Distinctions as simple as \"electronic music\" assume a music that's simple, too. And while \"simple\" is hardly a term that fits much of today's music, far too often electronic music is. Half a century ago things were different. Visionaries like Luciano Berio and Edgar Varese saw electronics as part of the greater picture. Littering their avantgarde compositions with sounds both natural and computerborne, they juxtaposed the natural and the synthetic, along the way posing the question as to just how far removed these sounds even were from one another. But since the popularization of electronic music in the early 1990s, it's often seemed like we've taken a step back. More often than not, music is categorized as either electronic or otherwise. There would seem to be no in between. This tendency to segregate two perfectly compatible styles of music continues to baffle me. And apparently, I'm not alone. As evidenced by Radiohead's recent steps toward the abstract, Mouse on Mars' electroacoustic grooves, and recent works by Cex, the Shalabi Effect and Múm, all of which have made use of both electronics and \"real\" instruments, the general populace is growing more comfortable with the idea of blurring this line. It's this willingness to cross needless genre lines that saves David Edwards' solo electronic project, Minotaur Shock, from the void of IDM anonymity. ChiffChaffs and Willow Warblers opens ordinarily enough: morphing beats, chopped up sounds, smooth synth textures; your average student of the Morr Music School for Pretty IDM. Is it nicesounding? Yup. Well produced? Uhhuh. Enjoyable? Sure. Memorable? Well... let's put it this way: turn it on in a room full of people; no one's liable to complain, though it seems unlikely anyone will give it a second thought. But watch those heads turn the very moment a simply strummed acoustic guitar is dropped into the mix on the third track, \"First to Back Down.\" Marvel at the way a sampled trumpet brings the beats grinding to a halt and breathes new life into \"Moray Arrival.\" The addition of glockenspiel, recorder, vibraphone, and a slew of other acoustic instruments lifts this release from the pits of mediocrity. Granted, there are solid electronically produced moments, too. \"The Range\" infuses typical Chicagostyle postrock with minimal glitchhouse loops, deconstructing a McCombsian bassline held over from the prior track, dicing it, bouncing the results from speaker to speaker in time with the music while synthesized vibraphone and melodica flavors the track. On \"Out of the Hot,\" a gentle synth backdrop makes for great contrast with the garbled beats and piercing Atari melodies. Still, the best moments here are those that infuse the mechanical with the organic. Like the reprisal of the aforementioned Atari melody later in the album, voiced this time instead by a bunch of string instruments. Or \"Local Violin Shop,\" which opens with a basic repeated Rhodes keyboard figure before adding an acoustic guitar and static beeping, followed by live, nonprocessed drums. It proceeds for about a minute as an acoustic rock number, before you realize that you're no longer hearing guitar, but rather guitar loops. Soon, all natural sound but the drums have dropped out, only to be replaced by an explosion of digitally processed keyboard and guitar. Sounds get layered upon one another. It becomes impossible to tell what's processed and what's not. There's an escalation, a climax, and a return to the simple acoustic instruments with which the track began. It's an amazing song from start to finish.ChiffChaffs and Willow Warblers has its fair share of such moments, but not quite enough to put it in the same class as similar artists like Múm or ISAN. Of course, if this sort of gentlebeatdriven thing is your bag, it's unlikely you'll find much to argue with here. Edwards would do well to stick to his guns and add even more acoustic toys to the mix on future attempts. Without a doubt, his liberal use of such instrumentation is refreshing, not to mention a step in the direction of an emancipated musical utopia where no one is bound by restrictive genrenames and where sounds interact any which way they damned well please. "}