{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5247/homepage_large.73a7b3ae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Minotaur Shock","title":"Maritime","text":" Finally, a band name that makes complete sense. We'd hope David Edwards aka Shockface would just go all the way musically, too Maritime for the most part is folktronica that masquerades as postrock that masquerades as... but nope, there's not a single rapper anywhere on this record. Instead we get Manitoba's Start Breaking My Heart Part 2. Which is no slight, since Manitoba's IDM debut is one of few such slabs worth talking about. Some tracks here forget their melodies but valiantly gadget their way through: Strip a Sufjan song of everything but its chirpy horns, woody blocks, and xylo phones, and you might have a \"Muesli\". (You are encouraged to read this last sentence in a Jeff Foxworthy voice.) And perhaps you forgot about the existence of the band Tortoise; \"(She's in) Dry Dock Now\" has not only the courage to glitchpluck its strings, but the prescience to prefuse the ones and twos a Tortoise 73 cover before the Tortoise 73 original postdrops? I was doublefisting sandwiches in the VIP at the time, but I think I heard dudes play this song at Intonation. When the Shock does muster a strong melody, he makes a synthpop jam out of it, and those are Maritime's better moments. There's this band with Hollywoodbranch Amoeba Records employees, I think they're called the Ray Makers anyway, for you L.A. cats still bummed about my Weezer tracks review from six fucking months ago, that reference point is my atonement. \"Six Foolish Fisherman\" fakes the funk, but \"Luck Shield\" is \"Mr. Magic\" in neon, with Wurlitzerlike flutters on the head and a killer quiet bells flip. Sorry though, Pink's is an ugly man's Nathan's. There's a love song, too \"Mistaken Tourist\" and it's anxious to fill my IDM love song quota (0.75 love songs). But the soft squelch lead and pulled strings and cutesy bells come off a bit too wellintentioned, especially coming from an act whose very namesake was, shall we say, Veneris monumentum nefandae. "}