{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/528/homepage_large.9ea27cf6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Derek Bailey","title":"Carpal Tunnel","text":" As indicated by the title of Derek Bailey's latest solo album, the celebrated 75yearold guitarist has recently been stricken with a case of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome in his right hand, a condition which has left him unable to hold a plectrum. While the onset of such an affliction would likely have most guitarists of any age thinking about retiring to other pursuits, for Bailey it has simply presented another new opportunity to continue his lifelong exploration through the possible vocabularies of his instrument. Following his diagnosis, Bailey chose to forgo invasive surgery and instead, in attempt to \"find a way around it,\" began the slow process of teaching himself to play using his right thumb and fingers instead of a pick. And so it is that Carpal Tunnel, Bailey's first solo record since 2003's Ballads, comes to closely resemble a patient's journal, monitoring the progress of his selfprescribed therapy. The album contains six brief improvisations that were each recorded three weeks apart, giving the listener an unvarnished aural timeline of Bailey's development as he painstakingly masters his new technique. Understandably, this all makes for an occasionally hesitant and rather scrappy affair, but one that should prove to be a rewarding document for established fans (and, I guess, for physical therapists with an academic interest in hand injuries). The album commences with \"Explanation and Thanks\", something of an audio letter addressed to an unidentified \"Carol\", on which Bailey wryly explains the project and issues a preemptive apology for his \"desultory and inaccurate\" playing. Of course, given Bailey's legendarily idiosyncratic playing style, very few listeners will be able to detect exactly which of his eccentric notes the guitarist considers to be inaccuracies. Throughout his career Bailey has exhibited a unique ability to simultaneously treat the guitar as both a familiar and an alien object. And with its tracks liberally seeded with his characteristic atonal, nonidiomatic digressions, pick or no pick Carpal Tunnel proves him to be incapable of sounding like anybody but Derek Bailey. On this opening track, as well as the following \"After 3 Weeks\", Bailey's playing is slow and methodical, stroking out one note at a time like he's dropping pebbles into a jar. Each of these early tracks opens with a similar Easterntinged figure, with his crisp, dry tones sounding very close to the twang of a banjo or even a Japanese koto. As the weeks advance, he becomes audibly more assured in his technique, and by \"After 9 Weeks\" has begun to incorporate more electricity into his playing, using his familiar volume pedal to variously dissolve and sustain his carefullychosen notes, and allowing \"After 12 Weeks\" to close the album out on a satisfied wave of feedback. Over the years, Bailey has famously professed an aversion to recordings of improvisational music, which seems somewhat ironic considering the dozens and dozens of available titles in his back catalog. And though Carpal Tunnel can hardly be considered the most essential item in this vast discography, it might well prove to be his most revealing work, as it seems the purest distillation yet of his musical personality: ornery, inventive, comic, and above all, persistent as the tides. "}