{"label":" YoYo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5263/homepage_large.296d7646.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Mirah / Black Cat Orchestra","title":"To All We Stretch the Open Arm","text":" Mirah is an anomaly in the K Records stable. Over the years, the label has cultivated a uniform aesthetic, with many of its artists seeming like overdone, mockinnocent caricatures. Though there are exceptions to the rule, Mirah stands out as a genuine persona, and rarely, if ever, does she stoop to the sort of corduroy foppery that characterizes many of her labelmates. On a label of selfstyled misfits and singing eremites, Mirah is perhaps the only true enigma. Her tenuously confident voice revels and never wallows in its shyness, and though she has her share of precious moments (see \"La Familia\"), her songs are neither understated nor overbearing. The Microphones' Phil Elvrum might be a reallife hermit, but his mysterious personality is impertinent to his talent; Mirah, meanwhile, can dominate a stage in divalike fashion, and the experience of hearing her sing is all the more moving for the sense that she's doing something that takes a tremendous wealth of talent.On To All We Stretch the Open Arm, Ms. Yom Tov Zeitlyn conspires with Seattle's The Black Cat Orchestra to render a generationspanning panoply of folk songs from a variety of locales. The album Mirah's first for Yoyo Records (but not her last for K) is structured around a theme of rebellion and dissent; its dozen tracks consist of covers of songs from periods of war and strife. But while it's about time someone united Bob Dylan with his centennial antecedent, Civil War troubadour Stephen Foster, this album does little justice to the songs and causes it represents, and ultimately feels like a pointless exercise.Perplexingly, Mirah's dexterous voice is subdued throughout much of To All We Stretch. It seems no great pains were taken to mix these recordings; every instrument sounds remarkably flat, as if the band just closemic'd one of their rehearsals and pressed record. Of course, this fourtrack technique is hardly revolutionary, but it's nevertheless surprising coming from Mirah, whose albums have always found clever ways to avoid the sterility implicit in most lofi pop.Besides being hackneyed, the homespun feel of this recording fundamentally clashes with the populist nature of its material. Revolutions don't happen in Olympia bedrooms, and while many of these songs have grassroots, they were doubtless written with a larger audience in mind. For a message to be of import, the vehicle in which it's delivered needs to feel significant, too, and To All We Stretch the Open Arm is diminutive in stature.Performancewise, the band is equally flaccid. Rather than give the songs (some of which date to before recording technology) a modern update, the Black Cats render them verbatim, exaggerating their lugubrious tempos. \"Si Me Quieres Escribir\" and \"El Cant Dels Ocells\" sound particularly amateurish, laboring in the saturnine dynamics that come to typify this record. There would seem to be immense potential in rehashing songs that are more than a century old, but Mirah and the Orchestra have failed to find it. The album's strongest numbers are its most modern, including a cover of Dylan's \"Dear Landlord\", which features Mirah's most charming vocal performance on the album. Likewise, two original songs, \"The Light\" and \"How Sweetly Friendship Binds\", show promise, but are ultimately stifled by the band's indifferent performance.Protest songs that are anchored by a very specific place and time are period pieces, and are therefore difficult to execute outside their quaint confines. A song about the Civil War is nothing if not a historical document; trying to resurrect its temporal relevance in lieu of a situation that dovetails less than perfectly with the circumstances under which it was conceived is an illfated endeavor. Because of this, To All We Stretch the Open Arm is at an inherent disadvantage, and when coupled with the Black Cat Orchestra's tepid performance, the album packs all the excitement of a Battle of Gettysburg reenactment. "}