{"label":" Ghostly","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5275/homepage_large.ca23bbe4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Mobius Band","title":"The Loving Sound of Static","text":" Most bands would be better served by ditching the whole 45minute album thing and focusing on a steady stream of concise 20minute EPs. Furthermore, considering their miniscule fronttoback odds, all double albums should be steamrolled at once. Think about it: When the Olympics sweep through every couple years, everyone gets amped for the 100meter sprint while longer foot races inevitably devolve into mindnumbing NASCARlike tediumfests. Though there may be some kind of impotent handmedown stigma associated with such shorter musical statements \"It's good...but, I mean, it's only an EP\" it's about time those disgusting discriminations changed. The Mobius Band, for one, would benefit from such a lessismore mentality. Following four increasingly focused EPs that saw the band go from quaint instrumental postrock to this year's bliprocking hybrid City vs Country, the Brooklynbased trio disappoints here by retracing the alienated posture of their previous release while rarely reaching its respectable heights. Predictably, the first thing to wear is frontman Ben Sterling's monotone musings. Whether his pulse simply sustains at an abnormally low level or he's putting us on with his reedy, Ben Steintype delivery (sans deadpan wit, gameshow acumen, and conservative agenda), the affectless style is limiting. The vocals become even more troublesome when coupled with some of the record's offensively inane lyrics hipsterhistrionics can only get you so far, guys. On City vs Country, the band's words were harmlessly and somewhat mysteriously vague, but here the content dips into rote Bushy bitching on modernday corruption with \"Twilight\" (\"I will teach my children to lie/ They will know what's wrong will be right\"), rote indie vs. mainstream bitching on \"Radio Coup\" (\"Publicists tell you what to think/ They do a good job\" of course, the Mobius Band are hardly flack free), and inexcusable and rote repetitiveness on \"Philadelphia\" (\"Ain't it funny how times can change/ Arrangements rearrange\"). The trio's words are remnicent of enduring heartthrobmisfit Jordan Catalano's uncanny appeal they're more believably brooding and tortured when expressed in detatched generalities rather than forced specifics. And instead of glossing over such uninspired wordplay with their dynamic newfound studio polish (Interpol associate Peter Katis helped produce the album), the mistakes are highlighted by an overdose of tepid electrozzzz ballads. Revamped oldie \"Taxicab\" lasts nearly six minutes and is punctuated by a relatively raucous finale, but the bulk of the song is about as riveting as its drawnout hook: \"Taxicab, taxicab, middle of winter.\" Another patiencetester is \"Philadelphia\", which is drowned in an atmospheric listlessness that only accentuates the obvious undercooking.Static isn't a total betweenstations affair. On the strength of an enticing synth line, \"Doo Wop\" is the closest this band may ever get to quirky, hipshaking. The halfman, halfmachine blues of \"You're Wrong\" recalls Radiohead's \"I Might Be Wrong\" as it gives us a glimpse of what the Mobius Band's high expectations could have wrought with more structural massaging. And the perfectionist production is exquisite and exhausting in its attention to detail and nimble attempts at combining typical guitar jangle with zippy, bionic beats. There's a decent EP buried within the album's 10 songs but, as a whole, Static doesn't have the stamina to uphold its overextended play. "}