{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5300/homepage_large.83fc0d31.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Mirov","artist":"Mogwai","title":"EP+2","text":" The most brilliant band in the world, or the greatest rock 'n' roll swindle? Mogwai is one of those rare bands that elicits opinions as bipolar as the music it creates, be it either Islamicfundamentaliststyle fanatical devotion, nonplussed perplexity (often to the point of outright hostility), or both. The true Mogwai listening experience is a fragile, tempermental thing; listen to an album of theirs in the wrong setting and it comes off as pretentious, repetitive, and banal. But under the right circumstances, it can wield a power as strong and inexplicable as gravity, holding one completely in epiphanic thrall. I've had plenty of both kinds of experiences with Mogwai and I'm still no closer to really understanding how they do what they do. On paper, their formula seems moronically simple: agonizingly slow, quiet, repetitive instrumental figures slowly building layer upon layer of tension until either the song snaps, overflowing with monstrous cascades of alien noise... or it doesn't. Perhaps this morethanoccasional lack of release is what turned people off to Come On Die Young, an album whose tension building over the course of its entire length proved too frustrating, even for hardcore fans. So this (sort of eponymous) sixsong EP immediately succeeds where Die Young fails: it's not as long, so it's a bit easier to get a handle on, and it contains both the really quiet parts and the really loud parts. Somewhat less superficially, it also happens to contain some of Mogwai's finest work to date, as the band continues to refine and innovate from within the narrow confines of their formula. \"Stanley Kubrick\" is, for lack of a better word, excellent. A willowy organ drone hovers gently yet ominously, while what sounds like a human voice slowed down to quarterspeed snakes between the sustained bass and guitar notes. Perfectly arranged, the song simmers enticingly but never boils over; like the best Mogwai songs, it seems almost inconceivable that it could have been created by mere mortals. The next few tracks return the proceedings to earth with more conventional instrumentation: \"Christmas Song\" is a pretty pianoandstrings piece that bears some resemblance to the Twin Peaks theme in places, and \"Burn Girl Prom Queen\" drifts along for eight minutes on the strength of a melancholy horn section.  The noisy climaxes kick back in on \"Rage: Man\" and \"Small Children In The Background,\" but here they don't overwhelm and mangle the main melodies of the songs. It could be that the band has learned to write themes that can withstand pummeling, tsunamisized guitar distortion, or that they've learned how to use white noise as an instrument unto itself, or perhaps a little of both. But the bottom line remains the same: Mogwai is getting better. Much, much better.  But how can it be that Mogwai is improving even when their songs continue to sound the same? What can they possibly do with soft/loud instrumental music that hasn't been done a hundred thousand times before? I honestly don't know. I'd like to see them release an album consisting of a single hourlong track. Or perhaps a symphony, complete with movements. It may sound ambitious and bombastic, but Mogwai's mission has always been to imbue guitar rock with the kind of emotional landscape previously reserved for classical music. The fact that they've succeeded maybe 25% percent of the time so far is reason enough to call them, as Stephen Malkmus has, the best band of the 21st century.  "}