{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13423/homepage_large.7b93d24d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Moistboyz","title":"IV","text":" The press release for Moistboyz's previous album, III, has a number of illuminating things to say about the band, not least among them being, \"The Moistboyz know this will offend the androgyny of the modern person, and the young intellectual. The Moistboyz are holdouts in a nation of pussies and jerkoffs.\" Since the Pitchfork readership is mainly comprised of modern androgynes, young intellectuals, pussies, and jerkoffs, it's safe to say that the only reason we're covering this record is because it's Dean Ween's cockmetal side project. And hey, don't be offended by this characterization of the Pitchfork audience; take it as a compliment: Add \"Europeans\" and \"fags\" to these pejoratives and you've got a pretty exhaustive list of things that antiintellectuals use as shorthand to describe anyone goin' around all usin' their brains and stuff. So on first glance you'd have to be either incredibly stupid or terminally ironic to like this record. There is a third option, if those don't suit: There is a class of reasonably intelligent people that is attracted to all things willfully stupid and crude, a stance that seems to stem from a misconstrued notion of the value of transgression and a reaction against the intellectual posturing of academics. This is the portion of the population entirely responsible for Team America DVD sales, and Moistboyz IV is just one \"Fuck yeah!\" away from being its soundtrack. It sounds like the Hot Snakes trying to figure out whether they want to be Motörhead or the Scorpions, which isn't so bad. It's the lyrics that really grate, but if the slogans to be found on Urban Outfitters tshirts are any indication, willful stupidity is still cool, so there's probably a market for it. Whether Moistboyz's grossout schlock is earnest or satiric makes little difference: Either way, grim doings are afoot. It starts out okay, with three silly but entertaining antiAmerica screeds. \"I Don't Give a Fuck Where the Eagle Flies\", is pretty funny, and it's a damn sight better than the jingoistic John Ashcroft anthem it ripostes. \"Uncle Sam and Me\" celebrates the illusory power of rock in the face of fascism, with its snarled chorus of \"Don't take my rock and roll/ Because it's all I am\" offsetting its straightforwardly antipatriotic verses. But by the time \"Roy\", the funny song about pedophilia rolls around, with \"Everybody'd Fucked Her\" hot on its heels, you start to miss Warrant, who at least had the class to obscure their misogyny with pastry metaphors, and Electric 6, whose selfskewering shtick sounded more like an indictment of the ugly American than a selfsatisfied, antiintellectual glorification of it.  "}