{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5307/homepage_large.6f11a4a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Mojave 3","title":"Spoon & Rafter","text":" It was seven years ago now that Mojave 3 rose from the ashes of Slowdive, but to listen to them, it's as though time has stood still. Since he let his folk jones shine through the gauze of guitar that enshrouded Slowdive's music, frontman Neil Halstead has drawn a steady stream of comparisons to everyone from Bob Dylan to Nick Drake. Purely in terms of mood and atmosphere, Drake's more baroque work (think Bryter Layter) isn't that far off the mark, but beyond that, things get sticky. Halstead simply isn't a singer/songwriter in the conventional sense: rather than relying on lyrics as a focal point, his music remains essentially texturebased, putting arrangements at the fore. Halstead's knack for stunning arrangements is in top form on Spoon & Rafter, and in this capacity, his music remains compelling, if no more or less than on any of his previous trilogy of Mojave 3 releases. As usual, Halstead's vocals remain calm and measured throughout the record, his sleepy tenor rarely ever rising above a murmur in fact, he more often recedes to a mere whisper. \"Billoddity\", as with any of the rest of the album's tracks, spotlights his relaxed vocal, but the song's arrangement is what makes this track pop: it's an upbeat number (by Mojave 3's standards, anyway), trotting on strummed guitars and a beat that calls to mind Stoned & Dethronedera Jesus & Mary Chain. But \"Battle of the Broken Hearts\" is the true centerpiece and standout, with quiet glockenspiel and Thereminadorned verses and headbobbing choruses that bounce on piano and cello accompaniment. One unfortunate change that does separate Spoon & Rafter from other Mojave 3 albums is that angelvoiced bassist Rachel Goswell doesn't sing lead on a single track she's instead relegated entirely to background harmonies. This has the adverse effect of highlighting the band's monochromaticity, though they do their best to make up for it with little flourishes like the Moogs that populate \"Tinker's Blues\" or the banjo that turns up on closer \"Between the Bars\". That last song has the most overt country feel of any song here, with a loping twostep, lonely harmonica and swelling pedal steel surrounding Goswell and Halstead's Prairie Home Companionstyle harmonies. Of course, at the end of the day, Mojave 3, while an appealing band, aren't so appealing that owning more than one of their albums is at all necessary. If you're interested and any fan of Mazzy Star, Acetone, the Cowboy Junkies or others of that ilk probably has reason to be you're best off choosing one and ending it there. Spoon & Rafter, if mainly because of Rachel Goswell's decreased presence, isn't that album, although if you find it cheap, it's unlikely you'd be disappointed. "}