{"label":" Alien8 / Fancy","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5309/homepage_large.13153087.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Molasses","title":"A Slow Messe","text":" \"...and yer hair's liike the shimm'rin' starz o'tha suhn, wit' smails of *sniffsniff* gas'line ohn steamin'ot tarmac...thaat I couould ahl buht g't laust in'yer lushess bewbees and asz. I'mis yew, plehease com'bak *cough* tew meh, Juhscuh \" I must have grown bored speaking into the tiny recorder, since on later examination the inebriated voice on the tape fades into the distance, replaced by the ambient sound of a television and the kitchen clatter of falling pans and boiling water. My syrupy Southerndrawl had been triggered that evening by a cathartic bingedrinking episode brought about by one of the relatively rare fights and subsequent separations I've had with my longtime girlfriend. Emotionally daft and musically a dork, I knew the only way I was going to win her back was not through mature discussion of our problem, but by making her the world's best mixtape; the cherry on top of this expert selection of wistful loveandJessica themed tracks turned into the above drunken plea for her to come back to me. As much as I wince at my whiny, pathetic voice listening to the tape now having recently rediscovered it at the bottom of a storage bin in our apartment I can only imagine how she must have interpreted my desperate entreaty those many years ago. Scott Chernoff, the vocalist and reluctantly titled bandleader of Molasses, produces music in the same vein as my twilight analogexperiment complete with sleeveworn emotions, found sound collages, and offkey, often dubious lyrics except, unlike myself, he has the dual advantages of 1) a modicum of musical talent and 2) the backing of the same Montreal pool of musicians that's spawned Godspeed You! Black Emperor and The Shalabi Effect. Relying on minimally driven pseudofolk tunes and quasigospels, Chernoff has created in A Slow Messe a musical metaphor for the seeming paradox of starving in the land of plenty. Which is to say he had plenty of help: his stable of seven regular musicians and a huge rotating cast of musical fixtures includes Thalia Zedek (Come, Empty House), Chris Brokaw (Codeine, Come), Efrim Menuck (GY!BE, and more than likely that band you had in high school that only survived one practice yeah that one), Bruce Cawdron (GY!BE, Set Fire To Flames), David Michael Curry (Willard Grant Conspiracy, Boxhead Ensemble), and J.S. Truchy (Fly Pan Am, Set Fire To Flames). How one album can sport so many guest stars yet manage to hide nearly all evidence of their contributions is a feat in itself, one Chernoff should probably be commended for after he makes proper amends for producing such a glut of uninspired tracks. Not that quantity matters when discussing that which is unwanted after all, one bucket of shit would be just as undesirable to find at your doorstep as two but the fact that this double album of twentysix tracks, divided neatly between thirteen vocals and thirteen musical interludes, could leave one with the impression that it will never end is a valid criticism against the venture. Don't get me wrong: I wouldn't disregard \"Delirium Rag\" offhand just because it's twelve minutes of my life that I'll never get back thirtysix if you consider that I listen to every album I review a minimum of three times but it's obvious that the ragged formula of these musical collectives is wearing thin. It's no longer amusing or musically clever to follow five minutes of trainstation sounds with a husky ballad containing highpitched lines such as \"We'll all go to heaven through the hole in the floor.\" And it's one of their best compositions. The remainder of Slow Messe shuttles back and forth between pretentious snippets of musical moneyshots the drugged piano of \"Hopeless\", John Cale's European son \"Dans Une Maison Croulante\", and the postponedbass of \"Reprieve, 15 Julliet\" and Harry Smithinspired whiteman's blues digging on tracks like \"Silkworm\" and the appropriately titled electric guitar workout, \"White Blues\". Pardoning moments are few and far between, but among them, the highend screeching of \"Death March (Erskine's Theme)\" does perks one's ears, and the closing track \"Slow Mass\" is pretty enough, with its churchorgan dirge and lovely room tone. But these tired, typical modes can't make an album reputably \"mysterious\" anymore, and Molasses are guaranteed to suffer the same fate as that of my own Dionysian, shameful plea for love: another ten years of waiting in an abandoned box until somebody gets the masochistic urge to dig it out and hang their head in embarrassment. "}