{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5310/homepage_large.4c80bcfc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"The Moldy Peaches","title":"Moldy Peaches 2000: Unreleased Cutz and Live Jamz","text":" Oh, the sheer wrongness of it. The Moldy Peaches, a mere album and single into a dubious career, have just released a 55track doubleCD compilation of and I'm loathe to repeat this \"unreleased cutz and live jamz.\" In terms of business guile, it's the equivalent of the plushie outfits Kimya Dawson and Adam Green insist on wearing onstage: childish yet disturbing, and so monumentally idiotic that I find myself disarmed. Making fun of this album would require all the daring of a Christopher Guest mockumentary, but I'll try to avoid fishinabarrel potshots. The bounty is unevenly divided into two CDs arranged in roughly chronological order, and some of these cutz are actually coverz, of the Grateful Dead, Spin Doctors and Hulk Hogan. Most originals show up twice, first as studio demos, then in live form. \"Steak for Chicken\", with its manifesto rhyme \"Who mistook the steak for chicken/ Who am I gonna stick my dick in,\" is a triple offender, but I suppose you could compare the 2001 and 2002 concert versions to track the band's growing familiarity with open chords. You know what? So much for the poker face give me that Glock; you're going down, Gilly. The barrel, it needs to be said, is even smaller than the fish: this is the socalled Antifolk scene, largely confined to NYC's Sidewalk Cafe and sprung from the mind of a man named Lach, who does their booking. He gets a soundbite here anyone who makes it to track 20 of Disc 1 is treated to \"Lach's Intro\" and Sidewalk provides the setting for some of the live stuff. The entire scene is a bit of a sham; Antifolk is nothing more than an infantile fringe of acoustic punk imagine if the Violent Femmes' development halted at age 9 and not 13, and you get the picture. If Adam, Kimya and pals actually pitched their songcraft as a Bronxcheer rebuttal to granola musings of Dar Williams and Lucy Kaplansky, things would quickly become interesting. But I'm afraid \"Bunny Foo Foo\" and \"Who's Got the Crack\" are not going to cut it. Folk deserves a better nemesis. As absurd as the minicult around the Moldy Peaches is (this album is your comeuppance, suckers), fuming at them is probably even more pointless. At their occasionally glimpsed best, the Peaches radiate a stunted, abusedkid vulnerability that makes one feel almost protective. Of course, if that's a puton, they're evil geniuses after all. In fact, someone should investigate these guys, dropping a debut CD with the song \"NYC's Like A Graveyard\" on the second Tuesday in September 2001. It's wiser, however, to sentence these kids to time served: novelty acts that blow up to play Central Park Summerstage are usually fair game, but people who played it in lion suits in 95degree weather have punished themselves enough. "}