{"label":" Dancing Bear","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/535/homepage_large.2884d57e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Bambi Molesters","title":"Dumb Loud Hollow Twang [Deluxe]","text":" So imagine you're a band trying to find studio time. No problem, right? You scrape some cash together and hit the beat. Make a few phone calls, get some comparative hourly rates, and determine which you can most afford. Maybe you've even got a label willing to pay for all that studio time. Even simpler, then. But. Say your country is still recovering from a brutal ethnoreligious conflict that decimated its neighboring country and ravaged much of the countryside. You're an unsigned surf band in the middle of Eastern Europe Croatia, to be exact and you want to cut a record. Not so easy now.This is the daunting situation that faced The Bambi Molesters, the Balkans' finest purveyors of good, oldfashioned surfrock, when they set out in the late 90s to put to tape some of their ultrareverent, unironic paeans to The Ventures, Duane Eddy, and Dick Dale. When they finally loaned some space from an acquaintance, they had precious little time to record the album, and as a result, they wound up blasting it out in a span of just a few hours, one take per song. The sound was muddy, the cymbals bled into every microphone, and the label owner they finally got to distribute it Igor Banjanin of Dirty Old Town Records had to hit up loan sharks to get it distributed.That was seven years ago. In the interim, the Molesters have cultivated ties to R.E.M. and The Minus 5 (they toured together in Europe), managed to get an album out in the U.S. (2002's fantastic Sonic Bullets, on which both Peter Buck and Scott McCaughey guested), and watched as Croatia stabilized and put its war behind it. As the generous liners to this rerecording of that shaky start attest, they were never happy with the sound of their debut. So, with their newfound stability, they decided to try it again, and even threw in a few extra songs to boot.The material they were writing out of the gate demonstrates a remarkably deep understanding of what made original surf music work so well, from the Spanish and Greek influences in the melodies to the snapping spring reverb that enveloped the guitars of Dick Dale and Link Wray. This stuff sounds so real, so honest, it could only have been made by people unaware of its relative kitsch value in the U.S. Modern American surf bands like Man... or Astroman?, The Aquabats and The Surfers operate fully aware of Beach Blanket Bingo and Quentin Tarantino's employment of \"Misirlou\" in Pulp Fiction, and it inevitably colors the way they approach the music; Man... or Astroman?, in particular, compound the kitsch factor by pouring on samples of Japanese monster movies and old dragrace flicks.Though a few of these songs fail to fully demonstrate the compositional brilliance that characterized Sonic Bullets, most of these early Molesters tunes can hang ten with anything just below \"Rabble Rouser\" and \"Walk Don't Run\" in the surf pantheon, with the onetwo punch of \"Wanganui\" and \"Hot Water Pool\", opening things with a wave of huge, twangy melody and tremolo'd chords. \"Hot Water Pool\" now has the added benefit of a rocksolid horn arrangement, which punches the energy level up even further. The sound this time out is clear and cavernous, as it should be, and band sounds utterly confident with the material. One of the remarkable things about The Bambi Molesters is how much of their own original material they play, as a lot of surf bands lean heavily on standards for a lot of their material. However, a few old chestnuts like The Surftones' \"Cecilia Ann\" (best known today as the lead track on the Pixies' Bossa Nova) and \"Margaya\" do crop up, each attacked with enthusiastic passion.Dumb Loud Hollow Twang isn't the best place to meet The Bambi Molesters; with its more advanced compositions and perfect sound, Sonic Bullets is really the best of both worlds. Still, it's nice that it's been made available in the States, and anyone into surf will definitely want to check it out. It's always refreshing to hear a solid, untainted take on a wellworn American genre. "}