{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5333/homepage_large.6f25ed65.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"Mono","title":"Walking Cloud, Deep Red Sky, Flag Fluttered and the Sun Shined","text":" When Japanese postrock quartet Mono signed up to record their new album eventually titled Walking Cloud, Deep Red Sky, Flag Fluttered and the Sun Shined with Steve Albini, it seemed like a good match. The famed producer's canny, famously intense production is well suited to the group's characteristically dense, distortionsmeared instrumental surges. Mono needed the boost, too: Crescendoheavy orchestral postrock has been spread paper thin for the better part of a decade, and the band's previous album, One Step More and You Die, walked already welltrod territory. In an overextended genre one that values sonic evolution and unique sounds mere competency just isn't good enough, so the follow up to One Step would likely be a sinkorswim affair. Counterintuitively, Albini's production has dramatically subdued Mono's sound. The band's crashing waves of guitar and stereoshattering postrock barrages have been limited to a handful of tracks. In their place are more delicate, introspective compositions, which theoretically should expand the band's potential; in practice, however, they hinder it. The album begins promisingly enough: On the thoughtful, understated \"16.12\", Mono slowly and methodically layer guitar distortion and insistent, thundering percussion upon a backdrop of delicate strings, bass patterns, and washes of cymbal overwhelming the track in oppressive noise. The simple tension/release model is surprisingly effective, in part because Albini's crisp production distinguishes each instrumental element while still retaining the appealing impenetrability of the band's dense construction. On the rest of the album the band mostly forgoes its trademark deafening climaxes in favor of fragile atmospheric pieces. One exception is the powerful \"Halcyon (Beautiful Days)\", whose unexpected midsong wallofguitar explosion is a surprise highlight. Tracks such as \"Ode\" and \"Mere Your Pathetique Light\", however, develop unadorned guitar figures into adept Godspeed warmups without any payoffs, while \"2 Candles, 1 Wish\" offers a memorable piano/guitar melody, but sputters out in less than three minutes. The indistinguishable orchestral muddle of the title track is also brief; it's an unnecessary interlude on an album already weighed down with meandering atmospheric filler. The dense rush of \"Lost Snow\" and bittersweet closing ballad \"A Thousand Paper Cranes\" based on the story of Sadako, a young Hiroshima victim who attempted to overcome her leukemia by superstitiously crafting hundreds of origami cranes can't fully relieve the album's tedious predictability. \"Crane\"'s simple piano foundation seems relatively uninspired, particularly given the emotional heft of the song's inspiration. Mono have wisely restrained from directly replicating their previous sound, but here the band has sacrificed sonic heaviness for intellectual ponderousness, and too often has fallen prey to slow, repetitive, tiresome songwriting patterns and a frustrating lack of variation. "}