{"label":" Ryko","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5364/homepage_large.5dc8deba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Morphine","title":"The Best of Morphine 1992-1995","text":" In the spirit of allowing sleeping dogs to, you know, get some goddamn rest, and only out of a preponderance of love and admiration for Mr. Mark Sandman's legacy as the leader of Morphine, this disc never should've been pressed. I'm not gonna harp on the fact that Ryko are profiteering off the demise of another human being (there's no two ways about it), or dwell longer than necessary on the fact that Morphine themselves quickly fell into a...rut, musically speaking, a fact that this compilation only serves to make brutally clear. 19921995 isn't exactly an arbitrary span is the band's career, either, neatly encompassing the Morphine recordings Ryko owns: their first three fulllengths and some bsides. It's hardly a comprehensive retrospective of this very original band, but there's profit to be had. Let's backup though, and talk about this band, as perspective is required to understand the disc's failings. Back in 1992, the sheer iconoclasm of Sandman's famously simple, twostring slide bass, in tandem with nothing more than drums and saxophones, was a triumphant calling card and almost claimtofame on their debut, Good. It would soon become an unendurable obstacle; even after emerging from the sultry, seductive haze of their finest hour the sophomore effort Cure for Pain one couldn't help but wonder, \\x93Is their next album gonna be just like the first two?\\x94 Yes, it was. There are only so many ways to write the same three songs uptempo debauchery, slow, slinky atmospherics and beatpoetry readings and when you have such a narrow range of instrumentation, you can pretty much exhaust them on one record. A few exceptions, like the bittersweet acoustics of \\x93Gone For Good\\x94 spring instantly to mind, but, they're not on this album.n What you do get, aside from a pretty liberal definition of \\x93best\\x94 given the wide swath this disc cuts through their albums are three unreleased tracks only begging to stay down. The recorded cuts, sure to bring smiles to the faces of the familiar \\x93Honey White\\x94, \\x93I'm Free Now\\x94, \\x93You Look Like Raix94 are more than sufficient to maintain a fairly high standard, as well as an adequate spectrum of the band's assorted powers. But when you come down to it, a lot of Morphine's most impressive songs are remembered for nothing more than standing out on a samey album. The shame or sheer hell depending on your outlook and/or relation to the band is that, when all these songs are brought together, they blend together like any other Morphine recording: the liquidsmoothtofranticandback, smoky and solid playing is, for its novelty, monotonous. As for the newly released material, it's nothing but filler, sounding like watereddown versions of every other song on this collection and the last thing Morphine's welloiled machinery needs is another fifteen minutes of sand.n This is far, far less than representative of Morphine's greatness; although many of these songs are their best works, it's more of a Morphine intro course than a respectful farewell. Five of these songs a full third of the album come from the incredible Cure for Pain; anyone interested in this album as a short road to their best tunes could do a lot worse, but you'd better be served just picking up Cure for Pain itself. If you already own that, well, you didn't even need to read this review, did you? Spanning a measly four years and barely half the band's recorded output, it trades excellence in a heartbeat, for mediocrity and around fifteen bucks. "}