{"label":" Magnetic Motorworks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5373/homepage_large.4be1a683.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Dark","artist":"Moth Wranglers","title":"Never Mind the Context","text":" Years ago, my family spread out to the rims of the country, like grease confronted with the cleaning power of Dawn. We didn't start out that way; we all, at one time or another (and for a brief moment, all at the same time), lived in Southwestern Pennsylvania. These days, however, the entire Dark brood are perimeterdwellers: Boston, Florida, Houston, California. Overextended and mutually distant, we can barely coordinate a family gettogether that doesn't involve a funeral, let alone produce a work of artistic merit like the Moth Wranglers' debut album, Never Mind the Context. But that's exactly how this bicoastal collaborative project operates. The primary Wranglers, King Missile alum Chris Xefos and Flare's LD Beghtol, are graced by a mutual admiration society comprised of Camper Van Beethoven's Victor Krummenacher and Jonathan Segel, the Magnetic Fields' Stephin Merritt and Claudia Gonson, the Loud Family's Alison Faith Levy, the Posies' Ken Stringfellow, and the Geraldine Fibbers' Bill Tutton, among many, many others. A grand total of 29 contributors in all credited in egalitarian fashion with no mention of who played what even outnumbers my entire aforementioned extended family. A thousand attics and flea markets must have been raided to yield the album's menagerie of castaway ukuleles, autoharps, Marxophones, Aqualins and peck horns. But the songs are more traditional than their bizarro instrumentation would suggest, and all the musical toys are put to good use. Instantly, you're clued in that this won't be a normal listening experience. \"I Will Never Marry,\" a tradAppalachian gospeldeath ballad, sung a cappella, opens the album with a suitably ambivalent tone. The oddity of hearing Xefos and Beghtol deliver the line, \"I'll be no man's wife,\" in beautiful harmony is eerie and comical at the same time. From then on, they swap at lead vocals, with Beghtol's polished obsidian vox taking the lion's share. \"Turnabout\" is a screechy, Grange Hall dancin' ditty that recalls Camper Van Beethoven, and not only because it showcases the unmistakable and masterful fiddling of Jonathan Segel. The croony vocals telling the tale of British serial killer Denis Nilson in eyebrowraising narrative also have that same Californiafreaky worldview: \"It's just a phase, perhaps a ruse/ It's nothing bad, he's just confused/ It's just a shame, it's just the truth/ No, nothing serious, call it youth.\" Did I mention the handclaps? \"Let Go, Let Me\" pits guest tormentedsoul Stephin Merritt's deepest, most sonorous vocals yet against Tutton's contrabass (contrabass wins, but just barely). Beatlesque \"oohlalala's\" fill in the background along with soft bongos and a quivering vintage keyboard chord. The song positively slinks. Elsewhere, Belle and Sebastian are given a stylistic nod with the posttwee ballad, \"Yet Again.\" Singsongy strums, autoharp and a muddyinthemix mandolin solo commingle behind a lilt that would make Morrissey's knees buckle. The album's not without its tedious moments, though. The moribund \"SixPage Letter\" moves as if in slow motion. It reminded me of Nicole Kidman's excruciatingly drawn out speech patterns in Eyes Wide Shut. The song's lethargic melodies, bombarded with echoing distorted guitar effects, don't really go anywhere. And \"Record (She's Saving a Page)\" sounds like a bad marriage of thirdrate prog and the Church. Such marriages inevitably end in divorce. But all told, the Moth Wranglers' idea of deconstructionist wackiness, folkie instrumentation and a sense of humor matched only by their sense of melody hits like a breath of fresh air in a dog kennel. From the overwrought Pink Floydian bombast of \"Don't Look Now\" to the European drinking hall singalong, \"FigureGround,\" the Moth Wranglers are all over the musical map. The result is cohesion sacrificed in the name of playful and insolent experimentation. And against odds, Xefos and Beghtol pull it off more often than not. The world needs more ideas like the Moth Wranglers: people who hold a wake instead of a funeral, who take drugs because the world doesn't seem normal without them, and who scribble moustaches on Mona Lisas. "}