{"label":" Ajax","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5380/homepage_large.7e47dba2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"The Mountain Goats","title":"'Protein Source of the Future... Now!', 'Bitter Melon Farm' and 'Ghana'","text":" From the Pitchfork Junior High production of \"Waiting for Darnielle\":Characters: HAIRCUT, collectorgeek CHAINWALLET, collectorgeek GOD, contender DARNIELLE, deity [Setting: An abstract plane, duh. A skyline of CD cases. A tumbleweed sets itself on fire and rolls across the stage, where HAIRCUT and CHAINWALLET stroll and converse.] Haircut: Oh despair. How are we to describe three rarities anthologies by John Darnielle's Mountain Goats? What is left to be said about what Darnielle concocts with a paucity of ingredients: haphazardly recorded acoustic guitar, spokenthenhyperharmonizing vocals, and of course, his tremulous soul, which he threatens to overexpose? We may as well have been asked to rhapsodize about a grilled cheese sandwich that treat similar to the Mountain Goats in that it is so much better than it should be, the consumption of which feels guiltless and light, despite its ominous cheesiness. But these CDs contain 185 minutes' worth of 81 songs. That's a geyser of simple sandwiches. ChainWallet: I too am inclined to despair. I owned these songs in their vinyl, cassette, and compilation CD formats, makeshift covers and all. I even bought a freestanding CD burner with an analog input jack to make my own rarities discs. My check to Sing Eunuchs, signed by Simon Joyner himself, is still taped to my ukulele. I even bought the original release of Protein Source of the Future... Now! and Bitter Melon Farm when Ajax originally released them in 1999. These songs have been with me too long. I feel as if I've been asked to discuss my own foot. Haircut: Dude, there's no way you had \"Going to Kirby Sigston\" because Hey Dan K never came out. What are you going to do with that archive of rarities now that these capsules exist? ChainWallet: That's why God made eBay. [Enter GOD.] God: Affiliate me not with the genesis of eBay. I resent the construction \"that's why God made ________\" when people just go on to cite something like flipflops, Teddy Grahams, or condoms. My designs are much more complicated and counterintuitive grasshoppers, pineapples, tuberculosis. Sorry, I'm ranting. [Exit GOD.] Haircut: Perhaps the only strategy for comprehending these sacred texts would be for us to recount all that Darnielle has given us, even if we're made to feel like mere informationdispensers, or ATMs, in doing so. ChainWallet: Firstly, these screeds ain't chronological, yet each disc evokes its own Mountain Goats \"period.\" With Protein Source of the Future... Now!, we've been offered mostly the warm, mellow, imagistic Darnielle. The songs amble through the speakers' doomsap and analyze love's overpromises. The narrators are viziers of tiny, silly empires, and Darnielle knows it his liner notes indicate that they project \"nearapocalyptic weight to their petty grievances.\" That's no slight; in fact, the best songs here function like sliceofvexedlife short stories without resolutions. Haircut: Standouts include, but are not limited to, the annihilationobsessed \"Two Thousand Seasons\", during which Darnielle is accompanied only by some kind of breezily buzzing whirligig, and \"Billy the Kid's Dream of the Magic Shoes\", a perfect example of Darnielle's singular penchant for clashing archetypes (here the outlawawaitingdeath tradition meets a child's escapist fantasy). As the shortest of these three discs, and since it compiles several longer short projects (four, five, and eightsong releases), Protein plays like a midcareer fulllength rather than a lostbackcatalog goulash. ChainWallet: Which brings us to the considerably less twilit, and less ingratiating, Bitter Melon Farm. Darnielle's notes admit that its songs are \"strays\" and that the bitterness in the title explicitly refers to how they might be swallowed. For some nebulous reason, this disc has an estatesale grabbag feel sure, you get a lot for your money, but a lot of what? Punctured hosepipes, plastic Christmas trees, and stained sweatpants? The limitations of the Goats's minimal formula are apparent here; even on the tracks that feature Darnielle's trusty boombox, the gears suggest a robocow chewing its robocud rather than an interesting nofi texture. Haircut: Still, the listener is treated to \"Going to Cleveland\", in which the singer is tortured by his partner's big eyes, despite how dedicated he is to his arrival in that brown city of eternal afternoons. \"No, I Can't\" is included twice, and this song is representative of the Goats's knack for using material thangs as objective correlatives for emotions and temporal connections. On these songs, a gift of, say, a filing cabinet changes the giftee's life convincingly, articulating the way sheer \"stuff\" can grip us. And two stellar covers emerge: though The Commodores and Ace of Base may seem more flippant than Darnielle's standard reappraisalfare (Chet Baker, Minutemen, Ella Fitzgerald, Robert Johnson, Steely Dan), \"Sail On\" and \"The Sign\" are solid numbers on a disc that occasionally feels vestigial. Some woolgathering is afoot. ChainWallet: The muzzy attenuation of Bitter Melon Farm as a whole are nullified by the glory that is Ghana, truly the proverbial \"one you've been waiting for\". If you are among those handtomouth loserimps who only own onethird of 69 Love Songs, then Ghana is the ultimate Darnielle fraction for your fundamentally incomplete existence. The New Testament lords over this disc with fetching benevolence. As Darnielle works the underrated policies of Jesus and Paul into his purposefully unepic tales of lifemaintenance, the trademark Goats sententiousness peaks. With \"Golden Boy\", an ode to a brand of peanuts (from Object Lessons, an EP on which Franklin Bruno and the Vehicle Flips also acquit themselves marvelously), Darnielle blends his frisky materialism and spiritualism, all the while blending his claustrophobic sobriety with his absurdist wit. Haircut: My emotions are pretty much pickled, but \"The Last Day of Jimi Hendrix's Life\" sends me out to my balcony in Spanish Harlem, crying a slough of tears onto the chickens roaming the alley. The rousing history lesson \"The AngloSaxons\" is a gem, despite its admitted transgressions against facts. And \"AntiMusic Song\" reigns as it trashes Morrissey (whom Darnielle calls \"Maureecey\", and with whom he has since reconciled), the remaining Beach Boy, and, I'm guessing, the Counting Crows's Adam Duritz when he sings of a \"bad imitation of Van Morrison.\" ChainWallet: The four songs fleshed out by Alaistar Galbraith are stunning. We can only hope that these violins are harbingers of the new Goats album that is days away from release, the album Darnielle insisted he'd never make, with a band (percussion gasp!) in a studio. Ghana is a damn relief pitcher: the capering guitars ideally suit the lyrics about introducing this manufactured world to the next, lyrics about \"heading straight to hell/ In a Lincoln Continental.\" Probably one of the best and richest acousticonly albums I own, and I own everything. All I do is own, actually. Haircut: Whew, we got worked up there. Oh well, back to our meaningless toil. Back to waiting for the new album. And to hoping the Goats will persevere. ChainWallet: Perseverance isn't always a good thing. Isn't it fucked up that the \"The Price Is Right\" is still making new episodes? [Enter DARNIELLE.] Haircut: Darnielle! ChainWallet: It is he who will not abate! Darnielle: It is I, Darnielle, who will not abate. My friends, I must ask: Now that you have these omnibuses, are you happy? Haircut: Um, well, where's the rerelease of your amazing cassettes Hot Garden Stomp and The Hound Chronicles? Why deny the digitalminded consumer the glory of your cover of \"Tell Me on a Sunday\", or the heartbreak of \"Going to Chino\"? ChainWallet: And when will you free your absolutely captivating fatherhaunted masterwork New Asian Cinema from the ghetto of a 500copy run of onesided vinyl? We'd like to purchase it on CD to give to a date, in the event that a date came along. Darnielle: Ah, my friends. Proust wrote of artless art collectors and how they were eventually consumed by their consumption to the point that no opus can satiate them. Be patient. Maybe try a new food every other Wednesday. Memorize outdated maps. Just diversify your passions beyond the realm of the shrinkwrappable. [Exit DARNIELLE.] Haircut: But there will always be more CDs we need to buy. ChainWallet: There will always be more CDs we need to buy. Haircut: We will never be happy. ChainWallet: We will never be happy. [They smile.] "}