{"label":" Too Pure","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5387/homepage_large.c860f223.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Mouse on Mars","title":"Rost Pocks: The EP Collection","text":" Seefeel was among the first bands described as \"postrock\" by journalist Simon Reynolds. If you've heard Seefeel, it's obvious that Reynolds' definition of the term didn't take. His version of postrock described bands that started with a rock structure and instrumental setup (guitars, bass, drums, etc.), but used these tools to create music that put more focus on rhythm and texture, as was more common in club music. Sometime around 1993, Jan St. Werner and Andi Toma of Mouse on Mars sent their demo tape to Too Pure because they admired the music of Seefeel, and I'm guessing that the title of this Too Pure EP collection is a reference to the band that brought them into the label's orbit.Rost Pocks collects material from five Too Pure EPs and adds one compilation track, and a number of these songs appeared on the duo's first three fulllengths (although usually in a different mix). Of course, as one would expect from a band that relies heavily on technology, Mouse on Mars had a different sound eight or nine years ago than they do today. When I interviewed Jan St. Werner for Pitchfork in the spring of 2001, he used the word \"shy\" to describe Mouse on Mars' early music. I take his use of the word \"shy\" to be something like \"subtle\" and \"polite.\" Early Mouse on Mars was about simple, hummable melodies and sonic detail. From the start, the duo programmed their modular synthesizers to create their trademark and muchemulated squishy sounds, but they wouldn't begin experimenting with more aggressive tracks like \"Actionist Respoke\" until later. Only \"Bip\" here, which was extended for 1995's Iaora Tahiti, really ups the tempo, with flurries of breakbeats; the bulk of the tracks collected on Rost Pocks drift by on a mellow, dubinflected groove and memorable tunes. One distinguishing characteristic of Mouse on Mars that was apparent from the start, despite their rightful classification as an electronic group, was their disinterest in building tracks from a series of repeating loops. It's always been their policy to vary the tracks slightly through the repeating sections. Their songwriting method at this time was informed by rock, which might explain why their audience is populated by a large number of rock fans. People dance at a Mouse on Mars show, but the event is much closer to a rock experience than a night at a club. It's not really DJinformed music, though tracks like this compilation's \"SchnickSchnack\", which features the women of Stereolab as they collaborated on the Cache Coeur Naif EP, anticipate the microhouse that would develop as the 90s wound down. Speaking of Cache Coeur Naif, three of the four tracks from that EP appear here (\"Glim\" is missing, but that was borrowed from the group's 1998 vinylonly LP Glam anyway), and they're all very good, and make me a bit nostalgic for when I first heard them. But more than anything, they make me pine for this era of Stereolab, right around Dots and Loops, when Werner and Toma were producing some of their tracks. The Mouse on Mars pop sense always made sense next to Stereolab. Another thing Mouse on Mars had from the getgo was a firstrate sense of humor. The IDM end of the electronic music spectrum has a rep for darkness, nihilism, and impenetrable abstraction, but Mouse on Mars during this time felt very comfortable being light, funny and playful. \"Twift\" sounds like the theme for a cartoon cop show, some sort of HannaBarbera version of Dragnet. Iaora Tahiti's \"Saturday Night World Cup Fieber\" is really just a catchy, tuneful celebration of soccer (there's no way it could be anything more) and the two remixes of the track here highlight its simple pleasures. I'm trying to put myself in the headspace of someone who hears Rost Pocks having known only Idiology or Niun Niggung. If you look to the band for melody and atmosphere, and don't view their music as a serious challenge, I would guess that Rost Pocks would be very much to your liking. It's certainly an excellent summary of those early years, and as an added bonus to those who dislike ambient house signifiers like the constant kickdrum thump that was all over the duo's 1994 debut, Vulvaland, the single mixes of these tracks are more poporiented, with live drums in place of the drum machine. If you're not going to get the three fulllengths from this period (which I would recommend), Rost Pocks is the way to go. "}