{"label":" Sonig","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5397/homepage_large.6dfa9853.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Mouse on Mars","title":"Live04","text":" There will always be something a little iffy about a live album from an act that relies heavily on computers. The live album has usually been there to capture a moment, something presumably spurred by the excitement of artists walking the performance tightrope in real time. The more you rely on the playback of digital sound files, the more likely we are to wonder why you don't just mix in the studio rather than onstage.Mouse on Mars in concert goes well beyond file management. In the touring configuration they've had in place since 2001, with Dodo Nkishi on drums and vocals, Andi Toma on bass guitar and electronics, and the busy Jan St. Werner piloting from the bridge, Mouse on Mars shows are unpredictable, occasionally sloppy, and relentlessly fun. It's not that they're recreating the renowned complexity of the records live. My guess is roughly 70% of everything the audience hears comes from one of St. Werner's machines, but there's still a fair amount of wiggle room for the imperfect human element. Something about the way Nkishi's spazzy live drumming mingles with the programmed beats, or the way a Toma bassline might slip momentarily behind the tempo of the sequencer, adds an appealing layer of awkwardness to music that lends itself to imperfection.The first Mouse on Mars live album was pieced together from shows recorded during the band's extensive 2004 tours, and it's a good snapshot of how they sounded last year. Pleasantly short at nine songs and 56 minutes, Live04 sounds minimally retouched in the studio. The setlist spans the band's career. Three songs from Radical Connector, one from Idiology, three from Niun Niggung, one from Autoditacker, and one from Vulvaland. About half the tracks contains vocals, and though Nkishi sings live, fragments of his voice are constantly being ensnared in St. Werner's digital net and mixed in as pure sound. Generally speaking songs make do with slightly less clutter, though it's still a busy environment with rich, cartoonish color.The best moments showcase the band's remarkable musical humor. The frantic \"Distroia\" lurches madly from bartobar, building steam through variations on its stomping, distorted rhythm before exploding into a tuneful hook that would make Harold Faltermeyer proud. \"Twift\" makes one yearn for the lovable goofiness the band displayed in the mid90s, with another synth riff worth building a career on and splashy fills from Nkishi. \"Wipe That Sound\" goes on a tad long but is a highlight, with its gradual builds to the explosive chorus. As did the last show I saw, the set closes with \"Frosch\", the first Mouse on Mars single, first released in 1994. This version is faster, funnier, and more dramatic than the original record, with an epic chord progression designed to send shivers when it kicks in after a sequencer break.It's difficult to fault the set list or the performances, and if the sound quality occasionally sounds a tad flat next to the meticulously layered records, in this context the crudeness seems appropriate. With the readily apparent crowd noise and the occasionally dodgy mix, Live04 almost sounds more like an audience recording. If there were quiet moments you could probably hear people talking next to the microphones, but Mouse on Mars in performance generally avoids quiet moments. Live04 is a soundtrack to a raucous little party. "}