{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5406/homepage_large.904f7a19.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Mr. Scruff","title":"Trouser Jazz","text":" Trouser Jazz is quite possibly the answer to all of your sugarfueled Saturday morning disco prayers, churning out one chocolatefrosted cereal box prize after another and bringing down the house with an inspired mix of rubbery funk, hipster soul and gleefully contorted, krush groovin' hiphop. Mr. Scruff's inner preschool party animal is in full effect, flexing a little fouronthefloor muscle, and while this album may not be a huge leap from his debut LP, Keep It Unreal (his love of rusty samples and chunky, plastic drums still dominates), he's managed to take his distinct sound in a few new directions. More than a few props are in order for some other members of the Ninja Tune clan, whose influences are clear on many of the tracks: the thirdworld swing of Up, Bustle and Out is borrowed for the chaingang saxophone boogie of \"Shelf Wobbler\", as well as the Snorksinakeyboardshop lounge of \"Shrimp\", and recent vocalheavy singles from Cinematic Orchestra and The Herbaliser appear to be the impetus for \"Beyond\", \"Valley of the Sausages\" and \"Come Alive\", featuring singers Seaming and Niko, respectively. \"Come Alive\" is enhanced by Niko's warm, breezy delivery, a wahwah bassline made of JellO and ragged string samples transformed into sultry speakeasy jazz by her voice, but Seaming's cuts are two of the few missteps on the record: a fairly ambiguous Curtis Mayfield potboiler, \"Beyond\" lacks the inventiveness of Trouser Jazz's more memorable moments, and \"Valley of the Sausages\" runs in circles around its sweaty Cuban percussion. With a label as tightknit as Ninja Tune, this kind of crosspollination is inevitable. Scruff is able to take these borrowed elements and make them function in his own ramshackle funhouse. Their spirit is especially evident in the rhythm section, which remains rambunctious and spirited for the whole of the album. Too often, though, fun means frivolousness, an excuse for simplicity and sloppiness that, while rarely detracting seriously from the proceedings, leaves the album without any semblance of ingenuity or progression. For Mr. Scruff, playtime is serious shit. One listen to the fingerpaint jitterbug \"Come On Grandad\", which revolves around soapy synth bursts and a funky bandleader egging things on, is enough to send anyone running out to the playground. \"Ug\", previously released on Ninja Tune's Xen Cuts box set, and as a Bside to the Volkswagenapproved \"Get a Move On\", is above all else a giant teddy bear of a track, a toy box of basic, blocky bits and pieces that fuse into a towering wad of crunk'd up scrap metal; the subcutaneous bellow of the bassline, the Flat Eric keyboard squawks and slithering hihat snaps propel \"Ug\" to the top of the heap. Scruff even works a little twostep flava into \"Giffin\", turning a fairly sedate, atmospheric instrumental into a smooth operator with a bit of a pulse. And while it's not nearly as ideal a collaboration as \"Jus Jus\" (a twominute headbobber featuring Roots Manuva on the mic), the Neptunesindaycare bboy swagger of \"Vibrate\" satisfies, laced with highly contagious callandresponse couplets and the relaxed ramblings of Leedsbased MC Braintax, yet another British lyricist who is in actuality much more talented than that bony pipsqueak in The Streets. The hiphop element is fully exposed on \"Vibrate\", but it's the rhythmic foundation of the majority of Trouser Jazz coupled at various times with an assortment of roots music, from backalley soul to Technicolor funk, equal parts Funki Porcini and Fat Albert that makes it an entertaining listen. Scruff keeps things sticky and sweet, passing out peanutbutterandfluff sandwiches and chocolate milk by the trunkfull, keeping things on a positive tip. Trouser Jazz is music for picnics and campouts: sly and soulful, and not at all concerned with the Monday to come. "}