{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5423/homepage_large.27714dd7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Schreiber","artist":"Mudhoney","title":"March to Fuzz","text":" Compilations are becoming more and more fashionable in the indie rock world these days. Every label that's been in existence for more than three years seems to have issued at least one. There are hundreds of variations on the theme it can be composed of any or all of the following: 7\"s, rarities, bsides, greatest hits, live tracks, onair performances, remixes, demos, covers, and even other compilation appearances (including soundtracks). For the most part, these tend to be relatively throwaway jumbles of oddsandends, and a strictly forthefan experience. A quick glance at the track listing here proves it's no different for Mudhoney's March to Fuzz, a twodisc compilation of greatest hits and rarities. It's no surprise that a package like this is seeing release through Sub Pop. They have to remind people of a time long ago when credibility ran rampant through their offices. Plus, what better way to make a crisp dollar than issuing \"the best\" songs of a band's career? After all, it's Sub Pop's early days that made them the official label of grunge music and, to this day, one of the wealthiest independents on record. After the extremely timely passing of grunge, Sub Pop managed to sustain their fanbase by releasing criticallyacclaimed records by Five Style, Sebadoh, the Spinanes, Sunny Day Real Estate, and more debatably, Damien Jurado, Looper, and Eric Matthews. But now, as the label's second wave of esteemed bands die off, Sub Pop has to attempt selfresurrection a third time. It's easy to see how a reissue of Mudhoney's best songs correlates with the type of stuff Sub Pop is releasing these days. Some of their newest signings bands like Nebula, the Go, Gluecifer, and the Hellacopters are more similar to grunge than 90% of the Seattle label's recent output. If Sub Pop is trying to make a return to their roots, why not celebrate their existence with new comps of their baddestass badass bands? We've already received the bestof treatment from both the Reverend Horton Heat and the Supersuckers. Mudhoney weren't drastically different from their contemporaries, and perhaps for this reason, these guys are the defining sound of grunge (next to Nirvana, of course). They could sound like Soundgarden, Nirvana, Mother Love Bone, Hole, Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam, Green River, Screaming Trees, and sorry, guys Temple of the Dog. With their several good records (Superfuzz Bigmuff, Mudhoney, Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge, and Piece of Cake) and more recent mediocretobad ones (Five Dollar Bob's Mock Cooter Stew, My Brother the Cow, and 1998's Tomorrow Hit Today), Mudhoney were responsible for much of the way grunge sounded. They had an album out on Sub Pop even before Nirvana. Like most bands of their ilk, these guys drew their sound most directly from the Stooges and Black Sabbath. They've got Mark Arm's growling, snotty, angstful vocals, the aggressive drum fills at the end of every measure, the heavily distorted Hendrixinspired roar of guitars, and the omnipresent thick, muddy bass. But they'll probably always be best known for their anthems, \"Touch Me I'm Sick\" and \"Suck You Dry\" more than they will for any of their complete albums. Naturally, the anthems are included on March to Fuzz, as are a staggering 50 other songs. Yep, this disc has it all a few cuts from their prime, and more embarrassing stuff off their later records. In short, you get Mudhoney's best moments with a bunch of filler. And that's just the first disc! The second features practically every song the band never released on their albums, and for the most part, it's pretty evident why. There's virtually nothing of worth on the second disc unless you're diehard Mudhoney completist, in which case you've probably already got this stuff. Of course, it's impossible to overlook the fact that March to Fuzz stumbles into the same pitfall that so many previous \"best of\" packages before it have been laid to rest in: if you want an introduction to an albumoriented band like Mudhoney, you're probably going to be better off listening to... one of their albums! Even with Sub Pop's added \"bonus disc\" incentive, March to Fuzz isn't a spectacular deal compared to the equallypriced Mudhoney classic Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge. "}