{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5433/homepage_large.1ca1a57c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Múm","title":"Green Grass of Tunnel","text":" Given the recent groundswell of popularity of electronic music among indie fans, Múm's growing profile makes perfect sense. With labels like Schematic and Tigerbeat6 working the fringe of DSP lunacy, those looking for a more 'musical' flavor of this sound found a kind friend in Múm's Yesterday Was Dramatic, Today Is Okay. Múm took the choppy beats and rapidfire sequencing of IDM and made them soft, sweet and welcoming. It made for a great record that will be recognized as a classic of the genre.Yesterday Was Dramatic, Today Is Okay was actually recorded and released in Iceland in 2000, but only made its way stateside in 2001, partially on the strength of the hype for all things Icelandic that followed in the wake of Sigur Ros' unlikely breakthrough. The quartet, two pairs of beautiful boys and girls that look like the Platonic ideal of indie kidness, have spent the time since working on a remix compilation and crafting the followup record, Finally We Are No One. This tiny little thing is the teaser, released to coincide with the video planned for the single \"Green Grass of Tunnel.\" Unfortunately, this single is on the stingy side, consisting of the album version of the song, a nice instrumental called \"In Through the Lamp,\" and a truncated and pointless \"video edit\" of \"Green Grass of Tunnel.\" To me, a short CD containing a \"video edit\" of a song should also have the video in question; there are no extras to be found. In any event, \"Green Grass of Tunnel\" points to a new, more songbased directior for Múm. The familiar female vocals are mixed way up front, and rather thar chanting or offering another texture, they're singing an actual song. In fact, the group sounds more like a band here, with a muted backdrop of oldschool organ, accordion and drum programming giving their sound a more human touch. It's a nice little song, fragile and pretty as blown glass. \"In Through the Lamp\" is a quiet, drifting instrumental centered around a few notes played or a fuzzy drone of a synth patch. Around this intriguing sound Múm layer plucked acoustic guitar, distant horns and sound effects. Something about this track reminds me of a deserted beach on an overcast day: desolate and lonely, yet oddly comforting. Buy \"Green Grass of Tunnel\" if you're a seveninch collector and Múm fanatic looking for a nice bside. The inclusion of the \"video edit\" of the song is annoying, and I expect it's omitted on the vinyl. Still, it's enough to pique one's interest in the upcoming Múm fulllength. "}