{"label":" Recordcollection","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5444/homepage_large.c0546f5c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"Murs","title":"Murray's Revenge","text":" My longrunning feud with 9th Wonder's wetwaxpaper snares is now officially dead and buried. From now on, whether it is true or not, I will weave into my moral fiber the belief that he is a shepherd of the club nouveau of punk ethos hiphop fueled more by intention than skill. He produced every track on Murs' last album, Murs 3:16, which I liked, and every track on the followup Murray's Revenge, which I like nearly as much. After a year in which the traphop/cokerap contingent ground the internets to dust, I can appreciate a record that does not contain one nigga, bitch, faggot, brick, time served, or clip emptied, and still is not a steaming mess of defanged braggadocio about commitment to the four elements. There is a limit on both sides, and Murs seems to have found the median where he can talk about himself without sounding selfabsorbed. He speaks on topics as varied as racial identity (\"DarkSkinned White Girls\"), a nice fade (\"Barbership\"), and fidelity (\"Love & Affection\") with a charming aplomb weaned equally on (old) Death Row and the Good Life Café, both of which were not far removed from his home section in the MidCity area. Similar to the Kanyehyped Lupe Fiasco, Murs is an artist whose appeal is grounded in his honesty about not being a gangster even though he grew up around some. He calls out fake thugs not with accusations of hiphop treason or murderous threats but a challenge to a gentlemanly fistfight, describes South Central as not all that bad, doesn't have a chain because his mom would have killed him, and boasts about his prowess like a modernday Positive K. He's even tempered some of the misogyny that made bits of 3:16 nonMomfriendly, though he is not yet to Common levels of Millennial Man gender equity.  Murs may not inspire myspace shrines like Slug or blog jackoffs like Ghostface, but he's once again made a record that should not alienate fans of either. Maybe that makes him the Broken Social Scene of hiphop, I don't know, but with the kind of production from 9th Wonder that seems to improve when removed from the comforts of Little Brother, Murray's Revenge is one of the better gangunrelated and Dreunaffiliated records to come from the West Coast since Murs' last one.  "}