{"label":" Badman","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5459/homepage_large.b87db61c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kevin Adickes","artist":"My Morning Jacket","title":"Chocolate and Ice EP","text":" It's funny how selective our nation can be when arbitrarily assigning kitsch value to various pockets of humanity. The line between 'nostalgia' and 'bad taste' is incredibly thin. Whereas whole genres, turnsofphrase, and iconic allusions to fads of yore tend to erratically resurface on the popculture landscape, other seemingly perfect candidates for revivalist lampooning lie dormant, unscathed by the trials of time. 2002 seems to be ground zero for kitsch the two most notable revivals of the moment being Gary Coleman and the commercial media's preoccupation with 1980s music. Like every redblooded, patriotic American, I enjoy a good laugh at Gary's expense. He's certainly kept our nation together during these trying and uncertain times. Yet, the chances of him ever being regarded as a serious actor are slimmer than the chances of a newwave renaissance. While My Morning Jacket have always steered clear of campiness, Chocolate and Ice finds the group taking a few steps back from their recent triumphs. This is an exploratory EP that really serves as a vehicle for the group's 24minute epic \"Cobra,\" a stark, predominantly instrumental composition that bears a remarkable resemblance to the Steve Miller Band's 1982 ode to sexuality in the world of professional magic, \"Abracadabra.\" To their credit, My Morning Jacket manage to carry this song for nearly its entire duration a feat only a handful of other groups might be capable of but the fact remains that bad 80s synth does not make for a good source of inspiration. Fortunately, the rest of the EP is more eclectic and rewarding. Opener \"Can You See the Hard Helmet on My Head?\" transcends its embarrasingly bad title to find My Morning Jacket taking musical cues from Jeff Tweedy and company. It's here that Jim James' whiskeysoaked voice, one of the group's strongest assets, is at its finest wavering between reassurance and aching desperation while hiding behind a dozen or so coats of reverb. Though these guys have always been relatively sparse in their arrangements, Chocolate and Ice takes the 'lessismore' philosophy further than any of the group's previous efforts, possibly as a cautionary measure against the muddy production value. The dynamic is intriguing, to say the least, as tracks like \"Sweetheart\" and \"Sooner\" pay homage to the 'couples only' dance music of the 1950s think Patsy Cline, Buddy Holly, and Roy Orbison. My Morning Jacket are just convincing enough to make the repressed adolescent in me cry right along with them sometimes. "}