{"label":" Bulb","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5469/homepage_large.218561d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Mindflayer","title":"Take Your Skin Off","text":" It's amazing what a little raw power will do for your senses. Over the past couple of years, indie's courtship of the dancefloor has gotten so much coverage, I'd almost forgotten there was once a time when posthardcore looked like the most interesting subtext on the underground horizon. Looking back, I guess there was a spectrum of activity along those lines, with, say, Fugazi on one end, and Neurosis on the other, their endgames resulting in almostbutnotquite \"altrock\" and almostbutnotquite \"ambient\", respectively. There were also a few hundred bands in between that could be shoved like round pegs into whatever square hole critics needed to use to prove their point. My point? If there's a common thread among bands that once played hardcore and went on to do other things, maybe it's that despite whatever changes, they rarely end up in a commercial spot. I'm not complaining, mind you. This year, when Wonderful Rainbow finishes in the top 20 of the Pazz & Jop poll, I will be among the first to offer my congrats to the Providence band. It takes some doing to turn out a record containing a brick wall of metallic oppression and still have folks clamoring for more. Still, I'd be surprised if Lightning Bolt's sound (or that of any Load act) translated into any kind of mainstream popularity. Even in the glory days of early 90s radio rock, when you might hear Helmet, Pantera and Nirvana in a row, aggression only mattered if the hooks backed up the noise. Ten years later, the hard have become harder but arguably even further removed from breaking through to the other side. Truthfully, I might not even bring it up were it not for records like Take Your Skin Off, because I'm sure mass popularity is the last thing on these bands' minds. However, if Lightning Bolt represents the anthemic and inclusive, Mindflayer is a small but potent \"fuck off.\" Formed in 1996, and hailing from the same Providence, Rhode Island scene that produced Lightning Bolt, Arab on Radar and Black Dice, Mindflayer understand the benefits of raw power. The duo jackofallelectronics Matt Brinkman (Forcefield) and drummer/vocalist Brian Chippendale (Lightning Bolt) play a jagged mixture of No Waveinformed torture rock, hard beats, with an almost psychedelic command of disorientating squeals, squelches and microphone feedback. Their sound is related to LB, though without a bass, there is an obvious emphasis on crackly, grating textures. Prior to Take Your Skin Off, the band had released a few CDRs, decidedly unpolished but rarely lacking in intensity. On their first proper recording, they make no bones about tearing shit up, and if you can handle a little druginduced strangeness alongside the tried and true Providence power, it's a fun ride. The coolest stuff happens when they opt for variation over oppression: \"Gold Lake Spiller\" starts on a percussive pounce, but quickly dissolves into what sounds like the death of a saxophone. Chippendale hammers out a pulse on the toms, and the massive electrodrone emitted from Brinkman's machinery transforms what might have been aimless skronk into the soundtrack of the inner workings of a jet engine. Likewise, the epic \"You're Dead at the Bottom of a Dungeon\" (possible reference to their namesake's RPG origins?) begins with the ornery hum of a generator of some kind, and random interjections from Chippendale over his trademark contact mic. This intro does little to prepare me for the violent, messy onslaught of raging drums and the sound of synthesizers being used to bludgeon via cyclical whipping noises. Then, the real hell breaks lose, as the beat is tightened, but only in service of two or three laser beam cannons and a gigantic BZZZZZZZZZ. Ah yes, and then it gets interesting: Chippendale gets fed up with the grade school shit, and drops a mad multimeter thing over which Brinkman decides his buzzsaw computer could do some pretty good damage. When the groove becomes apocalyptic disco, the squeaky space cannons go off, and we have a symphony of noises Robert Moog never intended his creations to make. Unsurprisingly, large stretches of the record are going to sound pretty familiar to anyone paying attention to the Load, Bulb and likeminded rosters. \"Take Your Shoes Off\" takes its hiphop meets Rush's \"Tom Sawyer\" beat and wrings a little chaos out of it via moaning synthbass and more offhanded sermonizing from Chippendale. It leads directly into \"Head of State on A Plate\", with its persistent tribal tomtom pattern, omnipresent, distorted highpitched ringing and bass hits. Like much of Take Your Skin Off's first half, these tunes are good examples of a sound that rocks OK, but might not necessarily call anyone to arms. Oddly enough, there does seem to be a sort of political miniconcept at work here too, to which \"Head of State on A Plate\", \"Drop Bass Not Bombs\", \"Wind War III\" and \"Everyone Dies (We Won Anyway)\" might attest. For the greater part of an hour, the band maintains a high energy level, though when the basic elements of your sound involve howling factory distortion, things can tend to get a tad monolithic. Fans of any band connected to Mindflayer will have much to rejoice over here, and if by some chance you haven't yet been introduced to the Providence sound, you could do much worse. Nevertheless, as totally uncompromising, hardcore noise rock goes, I'm sometimes left a little cold. It's one thing to bust up a party with raw power, but people only stick around for the straight jams. "}