{"label":" Last Gang / Enjoy","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5473/homepage_large.809fa328.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Metric","title":"Old World Underground, Where Are You Now","text":" When your band is best known for sharing an apartment with the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, there's clearly a lot of room for the development of a slightly more personal hype. Such is the case with Metric. Reportedly starting their band based on a mutual distaste for white Toronto funk bands, Metric melds together the usual suspects (The Cure, XTC, The Velvet Underground, New Order) for a new wavetinged exploration of offkilter indie rock. You may remember frontwoman Emily Haines from her work with Broken Social Scene and Stars. Here, she seldom attempts the kind of mesmerizing, superhushed whispers of BSS's \"Anthems for a Seventeen YearOld Girl\", instead showing off a nicely breathy sing/talk and a clear affinity for vocal fluctuations and cadence changes. The subject matter is even more varied than her vocal range: spanning topics as diverse as a friend's altered clothing aesthetic (\"On a Slow Night\"), to the importance of social status (\"The List\"), to the inquiry of whether it's \"wrong to want more than a folk song\" (\"Wet Blanket\"), Haines has an array of lyrical targets on display and she, more or less, handles the shooting range. One of the most stunning successes on Old World Underground, \"Succexy\" takes issue with the political agenda of the U.S. government from a more creative stance than the indie world's typical antiBush rhetoric and generalizations. Instead of placing the blame purely on the government, Haines claims, \"All we do is talk, sit, switch screens/ As the homeland plans enemies.\" Slipping between power chords and her own serpentine synth lines, Haines juxtaposes sex and war without sounding lost in her own thoughts. Metric aren't overly adept from a technical standpoint, and their melodies sometimes feel a bit too simplistic, but, in attempting a mix between accessible dancepunk and new wave, they do deliver where it counts: their rhythm section is incredibly tight, and drummer Joules ScottKey's delightfully funky meter is particularly notable. Still, the band rarely attempts anything out of the ordinary, and their lack of innovative arrangements often translates to a tendency for existing ideas to overstay their welcome. With Emily Haines' previous work as a frame of reference, you'd be right to assume that Metric does maintain an aura of talent, with the band serving as a hard melodic edge to her serene, plaintive vocal. Though still searching for their place in the everevolving world of indie rock, Metric, in their current incarnation, promise great things sooner rather than later. "}