{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5477/homepage_large.beb75369.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Michael Mayer","title":"Fabric 13","text":" My wishlist of albums from artists who have yet to record fulllengths is as follows: Superpitcher, Junior Boys, Vitalic and, most of all, Michael Mayer. Whenever a new Mayer project is announced, it serves as a reminder of how few of his productions have been released. Yet whenever I hear these projects whether they be remixes, another release on his peerless techhouse label, Kompakt, or his groundshifting mixes I'm reminded how thankful I am that he's at least out there doing what he does. The latest work from Mayer is his contribution to one of London club/label Fabric's mix series. Fabric's label division has been spoiling us recently with outstanding contributions from Swayzak (Fabric 11) and Jacques Lu Cont (Fabrclive.9), among others, but this is arguably the strongest release in its history. Incredibly, it also challenges 2000's Immer as the best release in Mayer's catalog, effortlessly drawing from his own Kompakt pool as well as eight other labels, including Playhouse, Plong, and Volt. Like most of Fabric's releases, Mayer's record is made with the dancefloor in mind so it's more ferocious than Immer, but like that dissection of the blissedout end of German microhouse, it retains a Big Picture overview. In the past, Mayer's mixes have often seemed to be an attempt at taking a definitive snapshot of a particular sound from Neuhouse's mission statement, from the effortlessly blended, almost soothing and silken Immer to the schaffelfieber of Mayer's recent Peel Session (which is available only on mp3, not that we endorse that sort of thing, etc.) to the collection of Kompakt's more banging 12\\xA5\\xA5 sounds on Speciher. Instead, Fabric 13 is a more eclectic set, blending the differences between the seductive warmth and melody and increasingly pop and nuglam sounds of Kompakt and adding underlying tones of menace and melancholy. Connecting the dots between elements of not only his own label but of German techhouse as a whole, Mayer offers a panoramic view of the scene. He even steps overground on a couple of occasions, utilizing both Jackson's Midnight Fuck remix of \"Run into Flowers\" by French nushoegazers and Pitchfork faves M83 and a remix of Westban's German hit \"Oldschool, Baby\". With vocals by Nena (of \"99 Luftballoons\" fame), who wields her retro charm as a weapon, \"Oldschool, Baby\" flits between quoting small elements of Italopiano and acid house and 80s electro, drawing on the charms of the past without ever rooting itself in one place and time. \"We are the moment/ Here to last,\" Nena claims on a track that even outdoes the set's other great pop moments, the pair of mixes of Heiko Voss' contagious \"I Think About You\" that bookend the mix. (Voss' oftentimes partner Thomas Schaeben appears twice, including a collaboration with Geiger and Schad Privat called \"Really Real\", a swoon song whose superfluous title fits its overflowing sound.) Elsewhere, the always thrilling Superpitcher is represented by his Total 5 glamshuffle track \"Mushroom\", and a newer Mayer favorite, Richard Davis, is tossed into the mix a couple of times most memorably on \"Bring Me Closer\", a nightmare filled with haunting skips and jumps, baroque strings that seem to move in multiple directions at once, and an uneasy central pulse. The central pulse on Fabric 13, Villalobos' \"Easy Lee\", is more of a solemn, battered lub. One of the highlights of his Alcachofa album, the Chilean expat's woozy, weak vocodered voice sounds even more ominous and mournful among the neargothic tones of Mayer's mix. Villalobos' work is a fitting foundation for this record, a mix of surging, sharp dance rhythms which never build to any of the kind of overpowering peaks that could keep home listeners and/or techhouse novices at arm's length. Every so often Mayer will get the odd criticism that he's simply an excellent ringleader and idea man, sort of the Dave Eggers of techhouse. Well, that line of talk is frankly wrong. He expertly scouts and attracts the talent, sequences the tracks, and sets the tone for the entire sound despite his own productions remaining sadly few and far between. Michael Mayer's two mixes and his Peel Session mark him as one of the year's most vital artists, a sort of weatherman who determines which way the wind blows in Berlin, Cologne, and any place where ears are cocked. "}