{"label":" Doppler","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5484/homepage_large.dbefd934.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Mood Elevator","title":"Married Alive","text":" In a classic case of chicken vs. egg, it's easy to assume that the Brendan Bensonfronted band Mood Elevator is little more than an emancipated version of Benson's backing band, the WellFed Boys. This is more than just another subtle experiment in power shifts, though the threeyear old band is the product of Benson and songwriter Chris Plum's longstanding high school friendship, a rapport reignited in Detroit in 2000, on the heels of Benson's trying One Mississippi sessions. With his own brand new home studio, built on Virgin Records advance dollars, Benson offered to record and produce a handful of Plum's songs; from this, Mood Elevator (with bassist Eric Potts, drummer Matt Aljian, and guitarist Zach Shipp) was born. A few short months later, the group's debut LP, Listen Up!, was released. (Perpetuating pesky Detroit inbreeding, Shipp has since bowed out of Mood Elevator to become Electric Six bandmember \"The Colonel.\") When Benson was asked to select a backing band to accompany him on his Lapalco tour last year, Mood Elevator was his obvious choice, and the group took on a new name, performing behind Benson as the WellFed Boys. With Mood Elevator proper, Benson chipped in rhythm guitar, percussion, and a few lilting vocal harmonies, but generously forked over the leadingman post to Plum, whose deep, clear coo functions kind of like a funhouse version of Benson's: a little more raucous, but still perpetually onkey and curiously adolescent. Over half of the album sees just Plum and Benson credited as players, and their balanced push/pull interplay instantly reveals the wellrooted relationship from which the project sprouted. Mostly, Married Alive offers a slightly rowdier version of Benson's beloved pop/rock, a hybrid foottapper with more drum fills and distortion, but not quite as much beguiling charm. Whereas Benson's solo charisma has always been inextricably handcuffed to his genuine, sweetfaced whine, Mood Elevator's choice to skew a little rockier (read: big, Keith Moonish percussion and a splattering of expletives) has also cost the band its potentially appealing innocence. Still, Benson and Plum are both skilled songwriters, and each of this album's eleven tracks are carefully scribed, hookriddled pop shouts, occasionally generic but always wellaccessorized. As its title suggests, Married Alive is also full of goofy, lockerroom heartbreak, with loads of exasperating lyrics about doing dumb shit in the name of love: looking the word \"baby\" up in the dictionary (\"It always seemed to me/ A baby is supposed to be someone/ Who really loves you\") or nobly lamenting your shortcomings (\"Anxious, anxious kind of guy/ I'm no longer cool/ I no longer rule\"). The instrumentation follows suit: the Beach Boysinspired summertime slinger \"Long Hard Look\" ties golden keyboard lines to singalong harmonies and rolling guitars, while \"Something I Need\" offers even more vocal frolicking, with Benson and Plum vigorously trading off sunny witticisms.Married Alive's liner notes feature a capitalized decree laid out in big gray letters: \"Love Breaks Your Heart.\" It's ageold pop sentiment, true but irksomely familiar, unspecific, and ultimately unaffecting. This record is a testament to Plum and Benson's obvious capacity (see any of Benson's work with the WellFed Boys) for melody and harmony, but in the end, its songs are about as earthshattering as its lyrical agenda. "}