{"label":" G3G / Spooky Sound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5488/homepage_large.b5022ac1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Mars","title":"The Complete Studio Recordings: NYC 1977-1978","text":" I'm looking up from an interview with William Burroughs, at a mariachi group as they smile and try to find their balance on a downtown train. Their gestures of voice, guitar, and rhythm are promptly drowned in brake drones, the shuddering of the decrepit old tracks, and plasticprotected ads for acne surgery and modelproffered Budweisers. All I can hear through the din is the disquieting roar of Mars and singer China Burg's sinister slurring: \"What I put together, I can take apart.\" Since I refuse to spend the $30 for a CD copy of No New York, I'm grateful to have the complete recordings of Mars (count one seveninch, four tracks from NNY, and one EP a halfhour in total) howling through my headphones. For those keeping track, since the digital age, another complete discography of Mars already came out on the Atavistic label, but with vague sonic tweaking by Foetus scraper Jim Thirlwell. Purists might argue that since band member Mark Cunningham used a different master tape for transferring the Mars EP (even restoring its binaural recording quality), it's still not going to sound like the \"murkier\" frequencies of the original wax. From the metallic sparkle of the midnight blue card sleeve to the insightful commentary offered by the remaining members (Sumner Crane passed away earlier this year), this limited edition package is too exquisite to overlook, no matter how distressing the aural mess splattered inside. For those obsessed with the nowave aura, the biggest surprise would appear to be their first single, \"3E\"/\"11,000 Volts\". The quartet of Burg, Crane, Cunningham, and drummer Nancy Arlen were still toying with postpunk in 1977, the instruments fairly coherent as they churned together. Sumner could've sounded as haunted as Ian Curtis were he not evoking Swann's Way in the lyrics. On the flip, the everencroaching menace of their sound manifests itself, seeping up around the eerie utterances of China Burg. It continues to seethe through certain moments of Sonic Youth and the Dead C, up through the Liars and Yeah Yeah Yeahs today, but here it's an uncut sound that curdles milk into whitenoise gobs. Mars' quarter of No New York still stuns, despite Eno's fabled \"no production\" technique. From the strafing runs of \"Helen Forsdale\" through the bleary stabs of \"Hairwaves\", they remain beyond rock (or any music's) reason. Whether smothering everything in the claustrophobic horrors of \"Tunnel\" or flashing a brief second of funk bass before the hallucinated \"Puerto Rican Ghost\", their malice merges with the absurd. How else to have sneered lyrics about \"pimply pimply skin so reptilian\" and offtrack betting go with transcriptions of homeless madmen, snatches of impenetrable French writer Raymond Rousseau, and readings from The Theory of Business Enterprises sound so deranged and (the biggest surprise for me) dangerous still? As they continued to devolve and finally disintegrate, by December of 1978, Mars happen upon disinterred beats and sonic dementia too bleak to ever again be approximated. Lurching and moaning like the undead, their final EP (basically a live performance for no one, recorded by Arto Lindsay) is scabrous and abhorrent listening. Nothing gags a fashionable namedropper like \"The Immediate Stages of the Erotic\", their final three minutes. Despite a vocal performance that purportedly draws on Kirkegaard and ancient Egyptian consonants, these are the band's death spasms, their sound like a bag lady retching up rodenticide while roasting on the third rail, beyond thought and notated music into the tarry, animalistic pit of it all. Harrowing and writhing beyond the constraints of any art concept or tidy movement, Mars music falls apart like zombie limbs, no matter how anyone tries to piece it back together. "}