{"label":" Lo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5489/homepage_large.e3c6556f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Mileece","title":"Formations","text":" As 2003 came to a close, I wondered if we should no longer be in a place where considering how music is made matters. Even though the last ten years or so have seen a oncehopeful, experimental community of electronic music producers graduate to the mainstream, I'd argue the timeframe has been considerably longer and the impact on all of music greater than we can discern. Sure, today things are possible in music no one could have dreamed of twenty years ago, merely due to technological benefits, but I believe the real revolution came to a head when the music we loved became digitally powered without anyone noticing. The moment when we stop hearing music as distinctly \"electronic\" seems like an important one, and I wonder if we're actually past that point already. Or whether that's a good or a bad thing. This question came to me while listening to Englishborn artist and programmer Mileece. The pieces on her debut, Formations, are based on natural phenomena such as light's changing patterns and the structure of snowflakes, all processed via selfauthored programs. Yet, it isn't the inspiration I'm interested in, as musicians impacted by nature or even technology are hardly unique to our generation. What strikes me about Formations is that, despite its obviously studied, mechanical skeleton, it resonates as vitally as any other collection of \"real\" music. This stuff exists under the electronica umbrella because it is produced electronically, but it succeeds in part because its construction is rendered completely irrelevant. Mileece was born 1978 in London, where she had access to a recording studio from a very young age. In college she studied \"sonic art,\" wherein her studio and generative programming chops (using Super Collider) were honed. She trumpets a claim that computers can be changed from static objects into \"something capable of participating in the creation of music in a way which is interactive with the composer as well as the audience.\" Of course, this isn't a new idea either among young IDM or electronic music composers. Still, the music on Formations seems less an experiment in laptopbased composition than plain old interesting music. That's a good thing, right? Bells pervade Formations. Mileece opts for the ping of small, clear musicbox bells in all of the music here, creating a bright, percussive ambience, albeit slightly monolithic. \"Aube\" begins the record, and establishes the album's sound quickly. As the piece starts, the impact of notes slowly descending upon themselves as the tonality moves from major to minor briefly leads me to believe it may proceed into \"nostalgic\" IDM along the lines of Múm or Boards of Canada. However, Mileece seems more fond of micropolyphonic clusters of sound. The melodies seem secondary to perpetual movement and the impression of direction. Since all of the music on Formations was based on natural patterns, and with \"parameterized chance\" written into her programs, looking for traditional structure might not be the best course of action. The title track wastes no time jumping right into the flighty, seemingly random sequence of pings from the previous tune. Where \"Aube\" progressed gracefully, this one is hyper. The tones bounce all around the mix, frantically moving out of each other's ways as new pings set forth. Musically, this reminds me of famed minimalist composer Terry Riley's classic Rainbow in Curved Air from 1967. The same majorkey, otherworldly atmosphere is presented, but Mileece's piece takes on an added clarity, as if an ensemble of Gamelan players were invited to perform the lifecycle of diamond. Later on the album, \"Fern\" covers similar ground, but with a palette of darker blues and reds, rather than the vibrant oranges and yellows of \"Formations\". \"Nightfall\" is the only track to feature Mileece's vocals, and she uses them to sing a somber lullaby. She also adds sparse cello, and in the process is very reminiscent of Björk. In fact, my only real disappointment with Formations is that Mileece's nonelectronic ideas aren't quite as mature as her more computerized ones. Still, over the course of the album, my overwhelming impression is that she has a gift for making calming, engaging music. And yes, that's a very good thing. "}