{"label":" Royal Earforce / Stereo Deluxe","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5494/homepage_large.b57c4459.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Ennio Morricone","title":"Mondo Morricone: The Trilogy","text":" Please excuse the hyperbole in this review. I know it's offputting, and I know we critics hand out these laudations for any trifle or speck that obstructs our paths on the way to the Pitchfork vending machine. But this time I mean it: If you don't know Ennio Morricone beyond The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly soundtrack, your life is a sham, your friends are holograms, and your soul is a barren wasteland where maggots greedily feast upon heartlessness and willed ignorance. This is not to say Morricone's 1960s spaghettiWestern scores were anything other than indispensable spacecapsule epics compressed into noble vistas and griseous beards. However, towards the early 1970s, Morricone realized it was time to put down his pistols, cast off his spurs, and stop terrorizing the Black Maiden's children in the Texan Graveyard of Doom or squinting at the mudlined faces of lawless AWOL Mexican warriors. So, he jetsetted to a strobelit land of swinging Eurodisco chandeliers, Twiggy impersonators with limegreen skirts, sophisticated black glasses, bottles of Chardonnay, and a mad acid party with the Ambassador of Morocco in his opulent tiedyed mansion. Mondo Morricone: The Trilogy charts this later mood. If you don't believe me, ask the Amazonian Italian vixen on the cover of the first volume of this threedisc box which collects the previously released Mondo Morricone, More Mondo Morricone, and Molto Mondo Morricone. Morricone's Western scores were galloping military warcalls and pacing anticipation, perhaps some regret for killing innocent townspeople. On A Fistful of Dollars or Navajo Joe, the electric guitar reigns like a fascist over the characters' heads, the aural equivalent of spectacular and intimidating brick beasts sliding down from the sky. The music on this box is from \"quieter\" Italian horror flicks and melodramas. It's still as dazzling and ceaseless as the Westerns, but its weight spreads in another direction. The Western scores are generally insurmountable pinnacles of agonizing or resigned cries, rushing along until they sweep you away in a gush of violins; the Mondo Morricone pieces sprawl out before you, clear a path, and let you come into them at your own pace. Not that Morricone is making it difficult for you to make the leap. The first piece, \"La Lucertola\" bleeds wilting clarinets into increasingly silent chimes. A tremolo of epic Western guitar fades in and out, some sort of space blender is turned on, and the rhythm is soft, skittering bossa nova punctuated by gogo harpsichord flourishes. But much of the effect is due to Morricone's sly use of that film score rarity, the human voice. The vocals on \"Le Foto Proibite di Una Signora per Bene\" are opera versions of Marianne Faithfull or Gal Costa, launching into ineffable tones that should tear down your house but never seem anything other than comforting and all with a SinatrainSinCity strut. \"Doricamente\" features a chorus of precocious Beach Boys wannabes crying themselves to sleep atop a spy theme guitar as sopping and fashionable as hair gel. \"La Bambola\" hits arrhythmic folk until it scatters into the softest, most beguiling yeye lalala tune to hit The Top of the Pops Christmas Special. And although you feel bad for getting off on it, there are songs that are clearly only suitable to play at Caligula's next birthday bash: \"Sospiri da Una Radio Lontana\" is either a whipping or an orgasm, depending on your temperament. A lilting flute tries to undermine the lasciviousness, but to no avail. It's so sensual that by the end of the song, your skin will be lacerated by fingernails as you try to take off your clothes. \"Voce Seconda\" has so little air; the vocal track is basically nothing but gasping. The reverbed guitars barely have enough space to be strummed. Somehow, Morricone also made time for the most gratuitously groovy garage hits of the decade, mashing chromatic scales off of wahwahing keyboards amidst fleets of neon drumrolls. Sometimes, as on \"Citta Violenta\", there are no flashes of hope or levity at all: Grimy brass lows, some Mafiosi Faust begins intrepidly walking to his doom, and the fists start flying. The best, of course, is when these genres merge into the more traditional compositions: \"Belinda May\" opens with a music box twinkle, befuddled voices, shuddering percussion that could be spurrotations or Brazilian percussion, and a melody that realizes it's never going to break into the Bubsy Berkeley bigtime promised by its first few moments. And on \"La Cugina\", free jazz noir dislocates itself, pops into pneumatic tubes, and emerges, reinvigorated, in some huffing funk makeout music belied by an impossibly chaste female voice. It's like sexing up a mockingbird a daydream for some bird watchers and an abhorrent, bestial perversion for everyone else. But the most perplexing and victorious is \"Rodeo\", a piece that begins with the jarring and ghoulish smacking of corpses and gets thrown by a massive funk shakedown into a bunch of tinny xylophones, like the \"Stairway to Heaven\" of callwaiting Muzak. The third volume is not nearly as innovative or diverse as the first two, but that's certainly no reason to avoid the set, or even the volume. The simple fact is that unless you enjoy searching for full soundtracks to oneweekonly 1972 Italian pulp movies, this summation of Morricone's fashionable spy themes, bossa nova anthems, and all sorts of inspired genresplicing is as satisfying as this whole \"entire century of music\" thing gets. The best song, the nineminute \"Come Maddalena\", might be the most subtly experimental, even enlightening, song I've ever heard, slapping cool jazz drumming, droning church organs, ornate harpsichord, and the sound of playing children falling off a roof with a powerful, accessible, stirring chorus. I just listened to it as I typed that sentence and, right now, I want nothing more than to take a bullet to the head: I can't imagine my life getting any better. The last time total beatitude was this cheap, you had to petition royalty to sail to the West Indies to go and pick it up. Make the right choice. "}