{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5495/homepage_large.8797a2d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Ennio Morricone","title":"Crime & Dissonance","text":" When most rock critics compare music to Ennio Morricone's scores and they compare things to him a lot they're speaking of one very specific corner of his long career as a film composer. It's the big, echoing spaghetti Western sound he popularized in his work with director (and fellow Italian) Sergio Leone, full of twanging guitar and high lonesome ambiance. The comparison is often apt, but it only captures a sliver of what the man did for film music, the part most of us know and love. Crime & Dissonance, a new doubledisc compilation from Mike Patton's Ipecac label digs beyond his Western work and his 1980s experiments with early digital synthesizers for films like the Untouchables (a score I actually think is awful, at least in terms of how it matches with the film) to his music for 1960s and 70s Italian crime and exploitation movies. The music unearthed here is a minor revelation, among the oddest produced by a true auteur and frequently quite innovative for its era. Alan Bishop curates the tracklist (no less an avant garde legend than John Zorn provides limited liner notes), and he's chosen some wonderfully dark and bizarre stuff that careens from musique concrete, melodramatic church organ pieces and free jazz to wahdrenched psychedelia, stiff funk, and abstract avantgardism. The two discs are sequenced more for flow than anything else, jumping back and forth over a range of films completed between 1968 and 1981. This makes for a great listen, eschewing historical baggage that only a few people are likely to care much about anyway. The spry title theme to Gli Intoccabili segues remarkably well into \"Fondate Paure\", a slow, menacing piece from a film recorded three years later, as both make excellent use of oddly arranged strings. \"Gli Intoccabili\" is founded on a manic jazz/funk vamp, which thrusts along under strings scored with no vibrato, giving them a dead, discordant tone the tension between rhythmic movement and melodic iciness is enough to prick your hair up. Morricone was obviously heavily effected by the psychedelic movement of the late 60s, and guitar feedback, oscillations, Eastern scales and heavy wah guitar are frequent sonic signifiers. The lone post1980 track, \"Fumeria D'Oppio\", is a haunting bit of largely unaccompanied gypsy violin that's eventually joined by guitar so subtle that it's only noticeable peripherally you barely hear it when you listen for it. It's the kind of detail that abounds here, and each composition is far more loaded with fine points than it first appears to be. Take \"Memento\", from the 1971 film \"L'Istruttoria E' Chiusa: Dimentchi\", which electronically subverts a choir to sparse free improvisation. The following track is a collage, fading harmonized female voices in and out with a weird psych instrumental, a string processional and marching soldiers. More than setting the tone for Western scores for a generation, Morricone's greatest legacy is perhaps the way he used sound elementally, largely disregarding the expectations his captive listeners had of guitars, orchestras and percussion in favor of combinations that captured very specific moods in a way most traditional soundtracking methods simply couldn't. His music is often hard to pin emotionally for the same reasons the emotion we so frequently draw from music is largely a result of the harmonic clichés we learn to associate with certain feelings, and he doesn't use any of those clichés in these pieces. Crime & Dissonance is perhaps the most essential Morricone compilation out there in that, in skipping hits like the theme from \"the Good, the Bad & the Ugly\", it captures his darkest, most adventurous material, shedding light on a part of his career that hasn't been explored deeply enough. "}