{"label":" Gooom","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5496/homepage_large.a1991f5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Mils","title":"Le Grand Pic Mou","text":" It's beginning to dawn on me that music criticism may still be mired in its colonial days. Reviewers can pontificate all they want about the latest subgenres, but let's face it, the underground is way too big for us to thoroughly examine its every nook and cranny. To keep up with the rapid metastasis of today's indie world is nearly impossible, and specialism seems inevitable. I won't go on record to predict a PreCrit program at Harvard anytime soon, but at the rate things are going, terms like lappop, glitchfunk, and psychfolk may eventually be used as universally as jazz or classical. The strongest evidence I see of this coming sea change is the orgiastic output from French electronic label, Gooom Disques. The music pretty much speaks for itself: Dead Cities, Red Seas & Lost Ghosts by M83, Spring by Cyann & Ben, Cluster Ville by Abstrackt Keal Agram, and now, Le Grand Pic Mou, the most challenging and utterly Francophone of them all. It seems the folks at Gooom are on to something we opining mortals yet lack the capacity to understand. Mils are a Gooom rarity, a group with more than just a couple years' experience and a handful of EPs and mixtape appearances under their belt. 1999's 7 Masses Déplacées and 2001's Echotones helped establish the fourpiece outfit from northwestern France as one of the premiere voices in musique electronique. Le Grand Pic Mou is the group's fourth fulllength, and offers a challenging counterpoint to the expansive drones of M83 and Abstrackt Keal Agram. Instead of creating space for a melody to shine, Mils have an IDM maven's infatuation with exotic textures. But unlike other glitch artists, whose work often suffers from a prevailing sense of prefabrication, Mils have found a way to enliven their creations: Even the most robotic numbers are swabbed with impressionistic dabs of color. From the trilling flutes and clarinets that introduce \"Les Mecaniques du Pic\" to the vibraphone and lightly plucked harp behind \"Societe DuretMol\", each composition breathes with a deep lifeforce. The fourteen songs on Le Grand Pic Mou are either extremely long or extremely short; its three longest constitute more than half the disc's total runtime. This disparity creates an interesting dichotomy within the complex architecture of the album. Melodies warble through vortexes of clipped rhythms and jagged beats, slowly gaining momentum as they head for either of two final destinations: a sideling plunge into the next song, or a prolonged denouement that offers a moment of cordial relief. \"Vivencia de un Copo\", for instance, builds for nearly four minutes upon a brusque repetition of washedout beats, highpitched drones, and hollow synth accents before a discernable melodic line emerges. Soon afterwards, the song performs another turnabout, as a subtle key change gives way to a sweeping synthesizer, instantaneously illuminating the dank milieu and bearing the listener heavenward. Of course, the problem with any kind of nineminute song is that most listeners lack the patience to see it through to resolution. Conversely, Le Grand Pic Mou's shorter numbers are often stifling in their brevity. Still, the constant transitions between epic and interludelength songs doesn't hinder the flow of the album one bit. For those who prefer talking about music strictly in terms of other music, Mils can be thought of as a French answer to Múm, though perhaps not as touchingly demure. And of course, while these reference points do dot the landscape, Mils coat their influences in enough originality for them to be distinctly felt, if not easily identified. \"Tomato Kiki\" sounds vaguely redolent of Bablicon's noisome freejazz, yet a marked difference lies in Mils' reliance upon programmed electronic sounds. \"Carotine\" and the fourth track (several songs have no titles) recall Kid A's celestial warmth, but remain ineffably unique. The bands on the Gooom roster do share one thing in common: They have all found a way of invoking the ghosts in the machine. Musicians long ago realized the onceremote potential for beauty in electronic instruments; Mils and others are now coming to epitomize it. \"Solid Fingz\" serves here as a testament to a positive human relationship with technology, as well as a convenient mission statement for the band. The song features Le Grand Pic Mou's only \"lyrics.\" At first, a disembodied female voice delivers a softspoken monologue, expressing its desire to step outside the machine and become human. Minutes later, the voice returns, louder, exclaiming, \"I can feel it./ What is it?/ Is it being a human being?\" Talk all you want about the deleterious effects of technology: Mils see it as a mere manifestation of our most basic humanity, and I'm not ashamed to say the robot's words are some of the more poignant I've heard on record yet this year. "}