{"label":" Ryko","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5498/homepage_large.b260c8c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Mission of Burma","title":"Accomplished: The Best of Mission of Burma","text":" Mission of Burma were never, nor are they now, Nirvana. Though they have a smallerscale \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\" in their repertoire (the relatively mild but nonetheless spectacular anthem \"That's When I Reach for My Revolver\"), Burma were a fearsome, misanthropic power trio without a trace of composite bullshit or gloomy glam. They defied categorization the way only a handful of great bands have managed to since the mid1970s, and from the start, proved themselves a songwriting force to shame most of the punk and postpunk acts pouting their way to fame and fortune. Reducing Burma to a 15track \"best of\" is just the latest in a seemingly endless series of shabby repackaging scams staining their venerable first wave of material (which, for all the recycling, contains only one proper fulllength album, 1982's Vs.). Despite the band's longsuffering contractual victimization at the hands of Boston's most unscrupulous independent label, TAANG! Records, and the fact that Rykodisc already released the legendary 80minute Mission of Burma compilation CD in 1988, the current owners of their backcatalog have decided to unload what amounts to a fivetrack sampler from each of their expanded mid1990s remasters (Signals, Calls and Marches, Vs., and the posthumous 1985 live album, The Horrible Truth about Burma).Accomplished accomplishes only one thing: It promotes Rykodisc's interests in advance of Matador's forthcoming Mission of Burma reunion album, OnOffOn. Though it's a bit ridiculous to take umbrage at what's basically a smart business decision by a label that's recently aligned itself with a basketball shoe manufacturer, Accomplished marks another reason why the Burma reunion documentary, still laboring in a postproduction/distributionseeking void, is titled Inexplicable. The band's music is, after 20 years, as out of step with the times as ever, and their reunion couldn't come at a better time: Since 2000, a glittering crop of soulless synthesizer and new newwave hair bands have overtaken the honest weeds bands like Burma once watered. But praise like that has to stay in my pocket for the time being, pursuant to the early May release of OnOffOn, which looks to approach or possibly exceed a rating inverse to Accomplished on our ten scale. Here's what I wanted from Ryko, because as much as I love their music, I do think Burma can be honorably reduced to a single disc. Ryko's already proven it, so why mess with perfection? Take the remastered tracks which along with Elvis Costello's are among the finest digital updates to date and reissue the classic, twentyfour cut Mission of Burma compilation from 1988 as it was, without further diluting the band's discography. How hard is that?Mission of Burma marked the first time the group's studio recordings were made available on CD, a watershed postscript for fans and band alike, and a cherished memory for at least the former class: The compilation ran through every great track the band recorded but for \"Peking Spring\" (thanks, TAANG!), and closed with a thenunavailable live cover of The Stooges' \"1970\", later appended to the Horrible Truth reissue. The original tracklist includes every song on Accomplished but for the live cuts from Horrible Truth, which, conspicuously, include the recently polished \"Dirt\". A live favorite found on TAANG!'s demo compilation, Let There Be Burma which combined the vaultplundering Forget and Peking Spring discs into one the band have rerecorded \"Dirt\", \"Hunt Again\" and \"Playland\" for OnOffOn (downer: \"Dumbells\" missed the cut, though it gets live mileage. Pray for Bsides). If anything pinpoints the disposable intentions of Accomplished, it's the inclusion of \"Dirt\", begging for piggyback press alongside the band's upcoming reunion album. Mission of Burma have never appealed to casual listeners, and regardless of unilateral critical worship or their recent peerpressure status as an unassailably \"cool\" band you're supposed to like, they don't want acceptance of the kind outlined by this lightweight survey. As much as it's always been a famegame career opportunity, rock and roll is sometimes as in this case a form of personal expression, and though Burma will surely profit by having embodied so impenetrable a fuckall attitude for so long, their music mandates an audience too smart to need shortcuts like this. "}