{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5499/homepage_large.a8719b03.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Mission of Burma","title":"OnOffOn","text":" When last we left Mission of Burma, in the summer of 1985, they were stuffed with free food care of Massachusetts' finest music magazine, Forced Exposure, and laying their past bare in an ungodly long interview. I had just turned ten. Fifteen years later, when the band announced their reunion, I interviewed drummer Peter Prescott for Pitchfork, and comparing my notes with the FE interview I'd picked up as a teenager, it didn't seem a day had gone by. Mission of Burma's composite disgust with pretense remains steadfast, all these years later. A de facto bullshit detector for the blowwave 1980s, the band's millennial reunion was more than timely, it was desperately necessary. Welcomed as resurrected saviors during a dearth of decent antirock, aughtera Burma countered a preponderance of prissy clothes, 45degree bangs and sunglasses mirroring the insubstantial times Boston's brattiest first set out to harass. But as the reconstituted band eases into their third year back together, the exasperated, relativistic accolades have to give way to honest examination. Burma are past rolling out the barrel, and while OnOffOn offers some throwbacks, overall, the record seeks to compete with and indirectly critique a landscape they admittedly have little time for. The universal positivity surrounding their return has gone on long enough that some are starting to bristle, especially some younger bands, who feel classic underground acts like Burma and Sonic Youth are blocking the spotlight. The age gap is apparent, but frankly, it's on the upstarts to upstage either band's new record. From the start, Burma trained on The Moment to the exclusion of all else, as presenttense as their confrontational nowave peers, yet capable of conveying enervation without resorting to structural devolution or acoustic warfare. In an era when \"sonic exploration\" meant the same goddamn synthesizer on every stage, Burma thickened their sound the only way that made sense, using their output as an input device. Or, OutInOut. Though Bob Weston makes a less adventurous tapemanipulator than Martin Swope, OnOffOn segues well with Burma's fabulously frantic second album Vs., adding some striking, if smoother, new elements. Clint Conley's recent work with Consonant informs the most accessible material, particularly \"Falling\", which in its acoustic sheen begins as a tribute to one of Burma's favorite opening acts, Hüsker Dü, before resolving in a gorgeous dualgender duet that, one imagines, might draw guffaws in culture covered by Forced Exposure. \"Falling\" also proves Roger Miller has mellowed with age, leaving behind the stark midnight of \"Trem Two\" for dramatic vocals and brighter guitar lines, often reminiscent of fIREHOSE. The shift toward patience puts Peter Prescott's \"The Enthusiast\" in a jam; while it's an irrefutably a classic Burma tune, the sneering punk of early 80s screamers like \"Dumbells\" and \"SingAlong\" seems long lost amid the layered guitars of \"Max Ernst's Dream\" and \"Wounded World\". The most pointedly modernminded track in this stylistic whirlwind (which spirals to overextension on \"Prepared\", evoking early 90s R.E.M.), \"Wounded World\" culls a few chords from Sonic Youth, looking back to the raging Vs., and boasts the record's most erotic and evil lyric: \"Once, you were on my side/ But I will make you wish that I had died.\" If only the rest of the record were so beautifully bitter. Never afraid to judge their own work, Burma update three of their best early 80s outtakes for OnOffOn, rescuing \"Hunt Again\", \"Dirt\" and \"Playland\" from the TAANG! sepulcher they've been trapped in for a decade now. \"Hunt Again\" and \"Dirt\" are perfectly polished, maintaining the original, jagged tempos while flushing out harmonies and guitar leads buried by the bordermono demos fans have lived with for so long. \"Dirt\" serves as the record's lead single, but it's probably too SST for the preening hairgoo geeks clogging dancefloors to prove they like Duran Duran. (\"Like, not ironically either!\") Which is where Mission of Burma won out, historically speaking; it's why so many wanted them back, and why they continue to matter. Like few bands before or since, Burma manage to call out what's wrong with music, using their own as a beacon, never a weapon. Abstract, yet brutally honest, Burma shame the transparent, insecure and phony, reminding us that ideals can be standards. Conviction will never go out of style, and that's how Mission of Burma escaped their certain fate, drawing on the undying devotion of the suspicious and stalwart. Punks (sic) not dead. "}