{"label":" Ryko","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5500/homepage_large.193fe881.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Mission of Burma","title":"A Gun to the Head: A Selection from the Ace of Hearts Era","text":" The tagline from Rykodisc's Mission of Burma retrospective, A Gun to the Head: A Selection from the Ace of Hearts Era, is a bit misleading. It seems to zero in on one facet of a copious output, when in fact the Ace of Hearts era comprises the bulk of Burma's recordings. Except for this year's new reunion album OnOffOn, Rick Harte's tiny Bostonbased label released all of Burma's records: the \"Academy Fight Song\" / \"Max Ernst\" single (1980), the Signals, Calls, and Marches EP (1981), the Vs. LP (1982), and the posthumous live album The Horrible Truth About Burma (1985). In those years, Burma didn't just cobble together a Frankenstein's monster of postpunk, free jazz, avantgarde psychedelia, and Krautrock; they spliced these genres together at the cellular level to create brilliantly dynamic punk rock. Burma's songs have held up remarkably well over the decades, and their influence on bands from Sonic Youth to R.E.M. to Interpol cannot be overstated. But a retrospective must be gauged by different standards than original material. The bottom line: Is it necessary? There's no previously unreleased material included here, and the omission of \"Max Ernst\" a Burma classic that helped initiate the titular Ace of Hearts era is befuddling. And since Ryko already remastered and reissued Burma's entire catalog in 1996, all of their records are easy to find. For Burma fans, it's redundant.Gun is therefore either for Burma neophytes who want to get a feel for the band's style and evolution, or for those who'd rather have a Burma sampler platter than shell out for three entrees. Arranged chronologically, its first five tracks are from the meticulously produced Signals EP (the remastered version of which also contained Burma's debut single), among which are their most famous anthems, \"That's When I Reach for My Revolver\" and \"Academy Fight Song\". The next nine songs are from the artier and almost monophonically recorded Vs., which sought to replicate the chaos of their live performances. The final two tracks are from the live document The Horrible Truth About Burma, which memorialized what the band thought would be their final performance.  So considering this comp is for newbies, it's still prudent to ask: Who were Mission of Burma? Unlike many of their punk rock peers, Roger Miller and Clint Conley were trained musicians but they also liked to thrash. Both proclivities would inform Burma's music, as would the tension between Miller's brainy guitar compositions (see the serpentine menace of the Millerpenned \"Trem Two\") and Conley's anthemic, poppier instincts (see his classic soft/loud fistpumper \"That's When I Reach for My Revolver\"). After quitting their artrock band Moving Parts, they linked up with drummer Peter Prescott and visionary tapelooper Martin Swope to form Mission of Burma in 1979. Simply put, they played minimal songs in complicated ways, filling them with both intellectual fodder and physical exhilaration.  Burma was a postmodern artrock band in the truest sense. They were heavily influenced by the tenets of Dadaism, and the liner notes of Signals ripped their enigmatic, lyrical Mobius strips (\"the beginning, at the ending\") out of context and arrayed the words in alphabetical order. Swope was a human analog sampler, manipulating improvised tape loops while hidden offstage during Burma's cacophonous live performances: a countervailing voice turning the music against itself. \"I'm not your Academy,\" was Burma's clarion call, which echoed Dada's directive to break the Academy's stranglehold on the arts. But despite these intellectual tics, the songs from Signals are a reminder that Burma was, at heart, a furious, melodic punk band best evidenced by the onenote throb of \"Fame and Fortune\" and skittering power chords of \"(This Is Not a) Photograph\". While the hardcore scene got dumber, Burma kept getting smarter. By the time they recorded the more abstruse Vs., its title rang true Burma seemed to fly against the accepted hardcore mores of the day. The Vs. tracks collected here retain Burma's hypnotic drive, but weave it through more meditative and difficult structures. The tortured, plodding anthem \"Dead Call\" and the imploding chords of \"Weatherbox\" reveal themselves more slowly than many punk fans accustomed to instant gratification were willing to tolerate. Burma finally succumbed after the Vs. tour, when Miller's tinnitus became dangerously acute. Considering the ringing harmonics and piercing feedback that decorated his stage performances displayed here on live versions of \"Peking Spring\" and \"Go Fun Burn Man\" one wonders whether he was externalizing the noise in his head. Mission of Burma wasn't the only classic postpunk band that doggedly pursued their vision to the point of obsession; in fact, that trait was a staple of the genre. Rather, the difference between Burma and likeminded artpunks like Pere Ubu and The Pop Group was that Burma's particular vision happened to perfectly align with the precarious axis between intellectualism and instinctive songcraft. Instead of trudging ever deeper into their penchant for dissonance, or eventually dropping it in favor of more immediately palatable pop/punk, Burma treaded the divide like a highwire without a net for the duration of their brief career. Their legend is only enhanced by the fact that they disbanded at the peak of their creative powers. "}