{"label":" Fragil Discos","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5509/homepage_large.919ce2aa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Angel Molina","title":"Pasada Professional","text":" For gray days, there is gray music. I don't know why I wanted to walk outside today anyway; it was humid and about to rain. It wasn't a particularly interesting day; nothing much to see except the same old pulse of the same old engines zipping past me on their way to some place that could never matter. It would have been a depressing day had I cared enough to pay attention. But in fact, it wasn't depressing at all. The footstep beats of those cars, and of the change in my pocket when I reach down to make sure I still have something to put in the newspaper dispenser, ensured that whatever wandering train of thought I carried didn't veer too far within. For gray days, there is gray music, and I'm glad I brought along Pasada Professional. Spanish DJ and modern techno producer Angel Molina has done more than his part for this kind of gray. Pasada Professional is a mix featuring artists from the Argentinean label Fragil Discos. The general sound is close to the Kompakt/Force Inc. style of minimal techno, with soft house beats and ambient textures providing sparse color. Of course, this is not exactly \"dance\" music, in the same way that Herbert's Around the House isn't necessarily dance music, but it comes from a similar place, and in these gray days, that's enough to get going. However, unlike most microhouse (there, I said it), Molina's mix is less concerned with keeping the beat alive than it is sculpting ebb and flow from its sources. As it happens, there isn't a beat to be found until the fourth track, and even then, you have to catch it on your own as Leo Garcia's \"Clap 4\" only implies it at first. Prior to that, Molina eases into a pulse, using a highpitched bell tone from Pablo Reche's \"Campanitas\" and the fuzzy, mechanical hum of Audioperu's \"Ciao Morocco\" to introduce his own fuzzy, mechanical vision. Romina Cohn's \"Let's Rock (Voz)\" is straight glitchnoise growl, while Andy Love's \"Andy Loops\" drastically slows down a sample of Andy Warhol that some listeners will recognize from David Bowie's homage to the legendary pop artist. No beats, not even gray ones. Those don't really appear until Molina brings out his \"heavyweights,\" like Kompakt's Leandro Fresco, who gets two tracks on Pasada Professional. \"PolPol\" seems pure Cologne, despite its South American origins. Imagine Kraftwerk removing the few human traits they exhibit (including playing synthesizers) and opting instead for bleak, almost colorless textures using only a couple of hazy loops and vinyl crackle. Alternatively, imagine Fennesz and Philip Jeck collaborating on a house track, vowing never to get louder than the doorbell. Pommerenck's \"Diacido\" evaporates out of \"PolPol\", using two watercolor chords as its backbone and keeping the ticktock from the previous tune. Fresco returns with \"Pasta de Cristal Congelado\", sounding relatively extroverted in comparison though in truth, it's merely the beautiful music of passing trains and sunsets. As these samples die, so does the track, and \"Diacido\" halfway returns, removing its harmonic weight in favor of beat afterthoughts like missed trains. Romina Cohn's \"Angel\" brings in an erratic glitch, like a broken Casio working just well enough to hint at some agesgone programmed melody destroyed because someone left the floppy on top of the television too long. It carries over into Fantasias Animadas' \"Ascensor de Aluminio\", so much so that it's hard to really tell where one track ends and the other begins. Throughout Pasada Professional, Molina delights in blurring the lines between tracks, and his sense of pacing seems to favor mood and atmosphere over pure beatmatching. My only complaint is his inclusion of Ocio's downtempo chill track, \"No es Palabras Escritas\", at the end, as it seems to jump out from nowhere. But even so, the final track featuring only children walking and singing seems a perfectly enigmatic way to close a perfectly enigmatic mix. For bright days and nights, there is plenty; for gray areas, Pasada Professional seems right. "}