{"label":" Erstwhile","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5510/homepage_large.5c896fee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Sachiko M / Otomo Yoshihide / Toshimaru Nakamura","title":"Good Morning Good Night","text":" Even taking into account its unusually mundane title, I could never shake the feeling that I was hearing an almost literal translation of natural ambience on Good Morning Good Night. This isn't the first time I've suspected that Japanese minimal improvisation was pulling chief inspiration from the \"outside\" think the color of horizons and sound of wind on a contact mic but here, I was confronted with what seemed like obvious references to nature. And you really have to be careful with stuff like that, because looking for literal translations in something so at the mercy of not only chance, but also rampant subjective interpretation on behalf of the musicians and the rest of us, usually ends up shortchanging the sounds at hand. Improvised performance isn't bound to a concept in the way that more traditional ambient music can be; yet, the music on this set clings to natural impressions like a portrait.Sachiko M, Toshimaru Nakamura and Yoshihide Otomo need no introduction to anyone following electroacoustic improv (\"EAI\"), and specifically Tokyo's Onkyo scene; they're the three most celebrated proponents of minimal electronic improvisation in Japan. Through many releases and performances since the mid90s, these musicians have contributed to a kind of music that simply didn't exist before them. However, since Onkyo hasn't really translated well to more rockcentric circles (in the same ways that, say, Merzbow does), I'm not expecting all of you to share the anticipation I had for Good Morning Good Night, a twodisc set marking the first time they've released music as a trio. Yet, unlike Merzbow, this music will hardly clear rooms, and given its apparent relationship to the organic world, it could very well hit the spot for many folks not ordinarily down with the whole crazyfreaknoise thing.Beginning with \"Good Morning\", the set seems to detail the cycle of a day, following with \"Good Afternoon\", \"Good Evening\" and \"Good Night\" and like most mornings, it begins hesitantly before waking into a flutter of activity. No instrumental credits are listed, but I can guess that it's Sachiko's sine crawling from beneath Otomo's scratchy turntable several minutes into the piece. The first segment of the piece seemed to signify only hints of movement underneath a horizon, and after a resulting clamor, Sachiko's \"voice\" is like the initiation of the normal morning routine. Vinyl scratch eases its way back in, like dozens of slightly annoying tasks the outside world takes for granted, and just before shutting down momentarily, the sine raises its pitch in protest. The piece is like a topological diagram of a.m. activity, not so much depicting the pace of one person, but the scheme of a whole city tracked by a particularly perceptive satellite.To my ears, Good Morning Good Night is sparser than other outings featuring the same musicians (Filament, Cosmos, Nakamura's solo work). \"Good Evening\" might well be an interesting diagram of a community winding down, but it's a decidedly tranquil one. Again, I wonder if linking this music to specific scenes (much less the titles) is for the best, as moments suggest more individual activity than meta. Sachiko's sampler has a brief, fragmented volley with Otomo's turntable, moderated by the sine from Nakamura's noinput mixing board; I'm hard pressed to read much into it, but it's one of the cooler moments on the set. Likewise, during \"Good Night\", after having occupied most of the piece using extended bass and sine tones, the trio suddenly engages in relatively tense, staticridden dissonance. It's an enigmatic way to end the piece if they were going for a programmatic depiction of latenight, but a pretty cool way shake things up otherwise. Even if I wouldn't recommend that Onkyo neophytes start here, there's still plenty to hear for fans and satellite surveyors alike. "}