{"label":" ArtistDirect","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5511/homepage_large.5ed7ab61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Martinis","title":"Smitten","text":" In a recent column in the New York Times, the everwinsome British novelistcumculturalluminary Nick Hornby writes of his affliction with contemporary music. \"To me,\" he says, \"contemporary rock music no longer sounds young or, at least, not in that kind of joyous, uninhibited way.\" He goes on to inveigh the dearth of songs about Iraq, child prostitution, and heroin addiction, adding, \"If bands see the need to use electric drills instead of guitars in order to give vent to their rage, well, bring it on.\" One must at least give credit to the 47yearold Hornby for admitting he's \"yet another nostalgic old codger\" reiterating a tired argument, but while the man's obviously missing out on bands like Liars and Xiu Xiu, the disturbing thing about his piece is that, in some ways, it's quite accurate. What Hornby fails to see is that this is nothing new. Rock 'n' roll has always hovered on the brink of collapse, threatening to implode under the completely unrealistic expectation that it should encapsulate everything that makes us feel good about being alive. Genres, like rock critics, grow old, and when that happens, the only thing to do is sit around and wait for young (or youngminded) guns to stumble upon a reincarnation. Hornby is also wrong for indicting age as the sole reason for this process. As proven by new records from Sonic Youth and Mission of Burma, all one needs to continue producing compelling rock music is a strong sense of adventure. That said, you won't catch exPixie Joey Santiago using an electric drill anywhere on Smitten, the new album by his band The Martinis, and while I'm sure Hornby wasn't being entirely literal when he made that request, its presence wouldn't hurt here, given the utter void of noteworthy ideas and substantive songs.Smitten is at best a vague relic of Joey Santiago's febrile axewielding with the Pixies, and at worst, feeble schmaltz that will appeal only to fans who romanticize the notion of the bar band. The Martinis perform rudimentary rock songs that could have just as easily been recorded in 1994 and sounded dull for their time, making this record a safe pick for those who covet the blandly familiar. But just as Hornby can claim amnesty in old fartdom, so too can I shield myself as a young stalwart, antsy for something bold and daring, and The Martinis fail to deliver. It's obvious the band ache to rock, but in all Smitten's studio polish, the beats sound canned and the guitars dolefully generic. Maybe the record's problem is that it's too good; the playing is so controlled, every chorus so rigidly preordained and executed without error, that the music shakes off any potential unpredictability. Part of the charm of the Pixies was their irreverence for sounding \"tight\" or expert in any way. Perhaps their slack compositions were poignant merely as a product of the indolent era in which they were conceived, but Smitten seems a product of nothing much. Santiago makes no apparent effort to play up his Pixies roots, but the connection is often unavoidable. \"You Are the One\" is a dead ringer for \"Velouria\", both in its hushed verses and its propulsive chorus, which features ascending 4/4 changes over a snare drum knocking out steady quarter notes. And if Linda Mallari's robust vocals offer a stark contrast to the pipes we're used to hearing accompany Santiago's distinctive guitar work, they ultimately do little to resurrect the staid songwriting. Aside from the bluntedged rockers, Smitten features an equally repellant set of languid piano pop. After the sultry tango of \"Wishful Thinking\", \"Walls of Silence\" inaugurates a series of yearning, somewhat downtempo tracks, culminating in the obligatory closing ballad, \"Into the Meadow\". Where the album previously scraped by on the bounce and brevity of tracks like \"Flyer\" and \"Out Upon the Road\", here the landscape turns particularly arid. If the hardest thing to do in sports is to hit a baseball, the toughest task in music is similarly fundamental: writing a good rock song. Listening to the Pixies, I'm inevitably reminded of how bafflingly difficult it is to make straightup rock sound interesting. True, it's all been done before, but never mind that; derivative bands like The Strokes and The Ponys still bag great songs whose lack of originality can be forgiven for their joyful catchiness and studied perfection. The Martinis simply fail to stimulate the excitement and unchained energy that good rock bands must, and as such, Smitten feels tepid and not a little inessential. "}