{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5514/homepage_large.d8cddb3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Minus Story","title":"Heaven and Hell EP","text":" In 2004, Minus Story released their Jagjaguwar debut The Captain Is Dead, Long Live the Drum Corpse Dance, an underrated, impressively expansionist take on disheveled lofi psychpop that hinted they might follow groups like the Microphones or the Decemberists by taking rewarding offroad journeys. On their followup EP Heaven and Hell, however, the Lawrence, Kan.based group have instead chosen to draw their fenceposts nearer to home, corralling their unruly sound into something considerably more tamable. And though this should come as happy news to fans of BrightEyed Midwestern sincerity, it might also disappoint those on the lookout for further high plains adventure. Containing five tracks (plus one odd little spoken word ghost story), Heaven and Hell finds the band cutting back significantly on much of The Captain's more atypical instrumentation, though it still makes judicious use of the occasional accordion or toy piano. This relatively unadorned approach places increased emphasis on the group's songwriting, as well as on Jordan Geiger's earnest, reedy vocals. Thankfully, all hands are steady enough to bear up under the scrutiny and Minus Story manage to avoid any true calamity, although moments do arise when you may find yourself longing for the introduction of a stray sousaphone or two. On songs like \"Suffer by Yourself\", with its cheerfully Dylanesque (e.g. sloppy) blats of harmonica, or the dusty highway lament \"Misery is a Ship\", which benefits from a brief cameo of spaghettiwestern cavalry bugle, Minus Story can fleetingly recall the cracked Americana of outfits like Giant Sand or Calexico, whereas \"Time Wastes Itself\" and the title track investigate some of the same downcast bedroom atmospheres wellcornered by Smog. Heaven and Hell also includes a serene, plaintive cover of the Misfits' \"Hybrid Moments\", transforming the raucous punk of the original into a chiming (and actually quite lovely) folkish delicacy that would probably make Glenn Danzig want to crush a light bulb with his teeth. Lyrically, Heaven and Hell makes it sound as though Geiger's been having a rough go of late, with recurrent themes of heartache (and its accompanying sleep disorders) threading through each of these songs. This periodically leads the listener into overly familiar tearsoaked sleeve territory (\"Heaven and Hell is in your mouth/ Because it's not me you're talking about\") but at other points, particularly on the forlorn \"Misery Is a Ship,\" Geiger's brittle, cleareyed words (\"Time makes dogs of men...and marries us to death and buries us with our mistakes\") are coupled so flawlessly with the music's woozy lurch that it creates the momentary belief that perhaps Minus Story do indeed know where they're heading after all. "}