{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5518/homepage_large.6e3ec423.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Juana Molina","title":"Tres Cosas","text":" In a past life that came to a close sometime around 1996, Buenos Aires' Juana Molina was a wellknown comedienne and television host, something akin to Argentina's Tracey Ullman, or say, Carol Burnett. It was a role she dutifully fulfilled for almost seven years before succumbing to a twerk of conscience and retreating to Los Angeles in the hopes of starting again, this time as a musician.Tres Cosas is Molina's third fulllength since she abandoned television outright in the mid90s, but her past as a successful comedian still clings closely to her brand. The obvious reason for that is because it's a compelling backstory in its own right, the kind of anecdote that journalists and publicists don't easily forget. But in the context of her work as a musician, the dogged funnylady characterizations begin to make even more sense; modest, meandering and resoundingly uncommercial, Molina's is just not the kind of music you would anticipate from a former star of any kind. Conceived as a barebones response to 2000's comparatively elaborate Segundo, Tres Cosas consists of breathy, waferthin Argentinean folk that occasionally flirts with the vanguard. Excepting the underwater synth piece \"Filter Taps\" and the gonzo pitchwheel bonanza of \"Yo Se Que\", everything here hinges on Molina's nimble voice and a guitar, and yet it'd be misleading to stop at calling it acoustic music. Part of Molina's appeal and this is what's getting her namechecked by more than just the world music set lies in the way her songs incorporate subtle additions like xylophones, strings, synths, loops and ambient washes without ever changing shape. One gets the sense from tracks such as \"No Es Tan Cierto\" (which slyly sneaks a xylophone and some sparse percussion behind its opening guitar motif) and the beautiful \"Curame\" (a threeshades blend of guitars, keys and vocals) that she's seeing the spaces in her songs and arranging them to match. The end result is a record of mixed materials that still sounds natural; a far cry from some of folk music's more hamfisted attempts at acoustic/electronic collusion. Because Molina's compositions tend to be guided by stream of consciousness, singsongy word trails, some of them need lots of time to fully take root; others like the clumsy \"El Cristal\" may never germinate at all. On the whole, however, Tres Cosas is still remarkably lean in fat. Neither particularly immediate nor eager to please, it's also absolutely nothing like a punchline, but who said Molina had to be funny anymore? "}