{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5525/homepage_large.d6258492.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The Mae Shi","title":"Heartbeeps EP","text":" The Mae Shi's debut LP, a 43minute album with 33 songs, joined short experiments in both guitar feedback and computerized loops with frenzied, unpredictable rhythms in the tradition of Brainiac and Les Savy Fav. The band threw everything against the wall on Terrorbird, and a few transcendent moments inevitably stuck. With only 10 songs and a runtime of 15 minutes and change, Heartbeeps seems paltry in comparison. Still, the band covers plenty of ground without the the grabbag diversity or noisy extremes of their earlier work. For a record that lasts only 15 minutes, the pacing is clever. Putting all the two to threeminute tracks at the end makes them feel epic in comparison to the first half; as soon as you're used to the longer song lengths, the album's over. Songs here are segmented and repeated in the same manner as on Terrorbird. \"Heartbeeps\" appears three times as the album's centerpiece and its bookends. It starts with a few erratic pumps of noise before it finds a pulse on the last track, given two minutes of skittering hihats and steady bass to find the melody. Same with \"Spoils of Injury\", 40 seconds of simple electronic beats and simple melody that introduces (but doesn't precede) the droning \"Spoils of Victory\". Compared to the mess of their debut, the puzzle pieces are a little easier to pick up on when there's less of them. The album's second half shifts its gears within each song. \"Crimes of Infancy\" begins with staccato bursts of rhythm before breaking into fluid singlenote guitar lines and finishing with windmillstrummed chords. \"Eat the Prize\" contrasts a Jesus Lizard hoedown with weary synthesizers, and ends with a circuitous melody on unaccompanied guitar. \"The Universal Polymath\" covers the most ground most convincingly, from stomping drums to a jagged, bassless melody and ending with a simmering nearfreakout. The restraint in these songs goes a long way to proving the band's talents can match their mashup instincts. It may lack the highs of Terrorbird like \"Power to the Power Bite Two\", but Heartbeeps achieves the same ends faster and more concisely. There's still much untapped potential within this young band, but their gap between proficiency and being merely clever is narrowing. "}