{"label":" Palm","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5531/homepage_large.c5da02b3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Moving Units","title":"Dangerous Dreams","text":" Now that the dancepunk revolution has passed into trend obsolescence, it's easier to assess its fallout from a more objective standpoint. Moving Units were, in fact, there from the beginning. That is, the Los Angeles trio started making danceable postpunk way back in 2001, before \"House of Jealous Lovers\" was helping turn any Brooklyn dive bar willing to buck the Cabaret Laws into a slapdash club. But while Moving Units' style falls in close proximity to their brethren, they've always managed to exude a more anachronistic vibe.Dangerous Dreams is dancepunk, simple and unabashed, and the album wins points for its sincerity. Opener \"Submission\" thrives on understated vocals (Nic Offer take note) and facile mixing. If anything, the band owe more to jam rock than the DFA in both their instrumentation and recording techniques, avoiding excessive digital adornments and laying down loose, manmade grooves. \"Going for Adds\" follows a similar tack, dryheaving angular guitar riffs over an accommodating bassline. Again, each instrument is performed live and the song is seemingly unalloyed by digital processing or other tinkering. But this approach can wear tiresome, as the ensuing 10 tracks prove. Texturally, the group only does so much with their stabbing rhythmic guitars and fauxslapbass grooves, and most of the time their melodies aren't strong enough to sustain the monotonous instrumental tracks and lack of textural variety. By comparison, !!! are vastly more successful at creating and sustaining intrigue through an insatiable penchant for sonic experimentation. \"Hello? Is This Thing On?\" may be static for the majority of its 7\\xBDminute runtime, but its devolution into a placid synth build behind Offer's discomfiting caterwauls is a refreshing take on the genre's increasingly rigid standards. By contrast, Moving Units are dishearteningly buttonedup and their bassheavy romps quickly lose their vigor and grow oppressive. Of these 12 songs, only on \"Between Us and Them\" do Moving Units churn out an indelible pop hook. Sadly, it's the album's sole glimmer of emotion. And choruses like \"Emancipation\"'s \"You control me/ I'm your slave\" will probably never sound sweet without at least a tinge of irony. Dangerous Dreams is plagued by a pervasive feeling of been there/done that, and the album ultimately sounds like the same two or three tracks on repeat. Moving Units may not be directly responsible for dancepunk's fustiness, but they can't help but suffer from it. "}