{"label":" Dischord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5535/homepage_large.33cab34d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Medications","title":"Medications EP","text":" If you've followed D.C. music for any appreciable amount of time, chances are you've heard of Medications. No, they're not the alternative rock \"supergroup\" featuring exmembers of Ugly Kid Joe, Soulfly, Machine Head, Life of Agony, dayinthelife, and Skrew that's just plain Medication. Medications are a trio that look an awful lot like defunct Dischord band Faraquet because... well, it's virtually the same band. When Faraquet bassist Jeff Boswell went his own way in 2003, that band's drummer, Chad Molter, stepped into his spot alongside guitarist Devin Ocampo, and Andrew Becker was brought in to man the traps. Unsurprisingly, then, Medications sound a lot like Faraquet the same two guys are handling the vocals, and Ocampo's knotty guitar lines still slither and slash through the arrangements like murderous hydras. Medications have toned back the odd meters, and Ocampo and Molter frequently engage in twopart harmonizing, which gives Medications a much poppier, more melodic angle on the D.C. sound than their ancestor band. Indeed, there are moments when the vocal melodies veer almost into Real Book territory, evoking the pop melodies of a bygone era albeit over pounding drums, shimmying hand percussion, and contorted guitar riffs. \"Exercise Your Futility\" contains a pronounced (and surprising) nod to The Kinks' music hall sensibilities in its middle eight. (How many times do you get to mention the \"middle eight\" in a Dischord review?). But again, that melody is alongside guitars that would have caused embarrassing bowel shifts in Rodgers & Hart, as well as perfectly honed Dischord lyrical volleys such as, \"'Forget crawling the distance,' I slowly groan/ Tired of inspiration/ Trying to catch my breath all alone.\" The track's bass and percussion are funky, and the declamatory verse vocals drop into the pocket with intense, swaggering efficiency if there were a Dischord textbook, this might be one of its first lessons.  Opener \"Safe and Sorry\" sports no hint of the distinguishing characteristics that separate Medications from Faraquet: The production duo of Chad Clark and T.J. Lipple give it a sympathetically dry and wiry sound, one that gives Ocampo's guitar the character of a pile of gnarled sticks. But by the time you reach the hand percussion coda that caps off \"Domestic Animals\", the differences are stark: Ocampo is throwing lead lines that he never would have played on The View from This Tower, and Medications are spitting out anthems where Faraquet would have been content with splintered grooves and singspeak antimelody. So count Medications as a small step in a bolder direction for the former members of Faraquet. Hopefully, their first fulllength expands on what this EP delivers because these five songs are memorable and accessible enough to both make inroads outside of the D.C. scene and its admirers and along with Q and Not U and Fugazi help forge some shifts within that scene itself. "}