{"label":" Accidental","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5538/homepage_large.81d4f37e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Mugison","title":"Niceland","text":" Lonely Mountain, the brilliant debut album by Icelandic oneman band Mugison, was released at the tail end of 2003 and promptly ignored by nearly everybody. There were several reasons for the record's general lack of recognition, but the neglect was at least partially due to the probability that nobody really knew which pocket to put it in. Was it leftfield electronic pop? Is Ornelius Mugison a Smog/Will Oldhamtype bedroom prophet channeling the spirit of George Harrison? Is he a dime store Tom Waits trying to get a new flea circus up and running? Mugison listeners may have wanted answers but Lonely Mountain stubbornly provided only questions. Unfortunately, the arrival of Niceland Mugison's soundtrack to Icelandic director Fridrik Thor Fridriksson's first Englishlanguage film may only further muddy the waters. Not only does Mugison continue his flagrant genrebusting, but he does so under the natural constraints of the soundtrack form, making it more difficult than ever to know exactly what he's hoping to achieve and how far his music might one day eventually take us. As is often the case with soundtracks, it's difficult to judge the music of Niceland when divorced from its cinematic context. Fridriksson's movie, from what I can gather, is some sort of fairytale love story. (I can't be sure, since it hasn't yet opened at my local cineplex and in all likelihood never will.) Most of Mugison's pieces here are very short, and several are barely more than fragmentary sketches surely intended as unobtrusive incidental music. Random bits of film dialogue weave in and out, revealing little in the way of plot or emotive intent. Melodic themes are repeatedly thumbed over and then discarded. But even within this rigid, confined structure Mugison finds space to flex his considerable imagination, and the results are as dazzling as they are flummoxing. Tantalizing instrumental tidbits like \"Move On\" or \"Blessuo Sorgin\" combine electronics and acoustic instruments in a way that suggests Four Tet performing a score by Angelo Badalamenti, but they're here and gone so quickly you don't even get a chance to ask directions. Other tracks like \"To the Bank\" or \"Poke a Pat (Take 2)\" find him singing and playing guitar with an almost Skip Spencelike air of solitude, announcing blank lyrical mysteries like \"My bad thoughts have made me good.\" Perhaps most impressive are the four versions of the film's main theme, entitled \"I'd Ask\", a simple waltz that Mugison first introduces as an acoustic country shuffle then reshapes into Waitsian carnival tilt utilizing piano, accordions, woozy carrousel rhythms, and pump organ. On these variations we're best able to fully hear the restless flowering of Mugison's creativity and marvel at his inventive chutzpah, as he makes the song's clean repetitive melody sound constantly refreshed and engaging. Throughout the album even his most conventional soundtrack material contains interjections of such dissonance or eccentricity that you're left wondering what could possibly be happening onscreen for which this music would be appropriate. Ultimately, though, Niceland is likely to leave you feeling a bit unsatisfied and perhaps impatient for the day when Mugison can put together another project more truly his own to thoroughly unleash his burgeoning talent. "}