{"label":" Shaman Work","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5540/homepage_large.1f9dff50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jamin Warren","artist":"Metal Fingers","title":"Special Herbs Vol. 3-8","text":" We all know and love Metal Fingers. (He actually teaches my kids at day care.) The former KMD black sheep's beats and rhymes overfloweth from his work on Madvillain to his innumerable cameos. But even the most ardent fans usually forget that Doom started his career as a designer for Wizard trading cards, home of the middle school pastime Magic: The Gathering. The names of tracks from the 2004 compendium Special Herbs Vol. 38 were delivered as promo package to the Magic: Eleven Noon series. It is my privilege to recreate the playbyplay of a match from earlier this year in which Doom faced his cardslinging nemesis Cut Chemist in the Malibu Beatmakers Magic/YuGiOh Throwdown. MAGES BEGIN: Currently, Doom and Chemist are tied at 16 life apiece. Doom taps four mana to enchant both his Vermillion Bandit and Ghost Prawn with the redolent Saffron. An audacious move. Saffron, the most expensive of all Greek spices, woos both Bandit and Prawn with sumptuous scratching and delicate wafting keys. The subtle vibes and upbeat tempo imbues both creatures with +1/+1 upgrade and a fistful of flavor. Chemist counters by dropping an extra Forest mana and introducing Seshiro the Annointed, a legendary 3/4 snake monk. Chemist has also released the feisty Zatar, queen of the Middle Eastern spices. Zatar's ghastly power lies in her mimicry, and she adopts the form of Patti LaBelle circa 1986 and smothers Ghost Prawn with her bosom. Prawn deceases. A single tear rolls from Doom's steel faceplate. Sensing that his ass is exposed, Doom reluctantly taps more Island mana to release both Brass Secretary and the Greasemonger. To add to their collective fury, Doom endows them with carcinogenic Monosodium Glutatmate. Bathed in the Roland rhythms of my parents' 1985 class reunion dancefloor, Monosodium evokes the spirit of Los Angeles funk in all its gelsoaked patent leather glory and casts the spell of selfdoubt over Chemist's beastly arsenal. Greasemonger redoubles, launches a stream of toejam, and deals four damage to Chemist's selfesteem. To avoid a potential rout, Chemist pumps up the jam and kicks out a classic from the Special Herbs Vol. 3 & 4 as any good wizard would do. By introducing the campy Arabic Gum, Chemist momentarily distracts Doom's assault with the herb's BOOM network meanderings. The sixstep breakbeat boogie combines with the suspicious brass of 50s cartoons and dazes Doom's creatures with its blatant sardonicism. Metal Fingers returns the gesture with the gritty Four Thieves Vinegar. In stark contrast to the herbs of Volume 3 & 4's childish facade, Vinegar poses a formidable threat, remorsely bludgeoning Seshiro with hypnotic guitar squeals until the snake monk succumbs to its repetitive fury. The match momentarily stalls as Doom rolls a blunt laced with the lunarlanding Calamus Root and pours a pot of subtly hyperkinetic Agrimony to purify the blood and cure his acne (note the mask). Doom then pulls out all the stops, taps all of his mana, and releases the a slew of minons from his 2004 Pro Tour Nagoya set including Sundering Titan, Viridian Shaman, and Kiki Jiki the Mirror Breaker. He also unleashes the toporific brilliance of High John. This herb, a favorite of mojo bag aficionados and the sexually deviant, draws Chemist into its blanket of seductive saxes and lilting organics. Doom embraces victory as Kiki Jiki delivers a definitive 12+ damage. The victory herb Cedar spews from eyeholes in Doom's mask as dozens of disco balls filled with the ashes of The Meters fall from the ceiling. The two share a tearful embrace. After an exhausting match, Doom mixes a pitcher of Country Time lemonade as Chemist cues a Tivo'd episode of Malchemy in the Middle. "}