{"label":" XL / Beggars","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5543/homepage_large.ce3d846c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"M.I.A.","title":"Arular","text":" Arular was first expected to be released in late 2004, but instead M.I.A. gave half of its vocals away to Diplo's Piracy Funds Backlash mixtape, which married her London Sri Lankan patois to music from New York, Rio, and Kingston. The mix highlighted her bigtent approach to global rhythms and Now Sounds, an M.O. that was cemented when she professed her love for hiphop crew the Diplomats and rap's spiritual cousins, grime, baile funk, dancehall, and reggaeton in The New York Times. Faster than you can say \"galangalangalang,\" M.I.A. became the onewoman embodiment of what to some is great about the contemporary pop music landscape. All that's left is for M.I.A. to draft Seba as producer and that voice that namestamps dancehall tracks like a heavily drugged, vocoded Just Blaze as MC: \"M.I.A. on... Bionic Ras... Baile Funk... Forward Riddim...\"This transglobal express isn't new, of course: Young Jamaicans have been combining the best of U.S. hiphop and UK dance culture for years, American rap producers seem addicted to the subcontinent, grime is actually lobbing singles into the UK top 40, and Nigeria is threatening to become the new hiphop hot spot. \"From ghetto to ghetto, backyard to yard, taking it transglobal on the aboveground, because that's where the people are,\" Hyperdub's Sterling Clover said of this trend a few years ago. At the time he was talking about bhangra and the Indian influences on hiphop, but he could just as easily have been talking about dancehall or grime or baile funk. And when it comes to M.I.A., you can practically talk about all of them at once.Unlike most musical tailors, neither she nor her mixtape partner Diplo is afraid to let the seams show. Rather than hiding up the ass of cratedigging culture, they relish sharing the spotlight with and revealing their sources, with M.I.A. dropping names in NYC broadsheets and Diplo opening twoway routes between Philly and the favelas rather than stashing all the best dubplates for himself. Northern Soul is probably turning over in its grave.If the two are interested in creating a dialogue between different artists and sounds, they're also more than happy to allow listeners to eavesdrop, whether they're improvising (Piracy) or wellrehearsed (Arular, Favela on Blast). M.I.A.'s freedomthroughhomelessness is shared by other artists (most notably dj/Rupture) but not by many of the source sounds found on her records, most of which are fiercely regional. Where Rupture's name suggests a destruction of the borders between scenes, cultures, and nations, his methods which include healthy doses of splatter beats and breakcore can also seem violently deconstructionist. M.I.A's moniker, on the other hand, appropriately suggests rootlessness. She's not exploring subcultures so much as visiting them, grabbing souvenirs and laying them out on acetate: The favela trumpet on \"Bucky Done Gone\", the London slang of \"Galang\", the disco sample on \"Sunshowers\", the steel drums of \"Bingo\", the electrofueled vocal edits of \"Hombre\".M.I.A.'s detractors claim her flirtations with terrorism and revolutionary politics reveal the biggest case of sufferer's envy since Joe Strummer but little depth of thought. But if the latter is true, so what? An indepth examination of demonizing The Other, the relationship between the West and developing nations, or the need to empathize with one's enemies would likely make for a pretty crappy pop song. An argument can and has been made that her political lip service is unique enough to get those topics onto your tongue or into your brain, prodding listeners to at least examine them. Some might find that offputting, but pop music that reflects uncomfortable realities and is packaged in this sonic collage beats the hell out of 1980s leftwing hand wringing from Bragg or Bono or Biafra.And when it comes down to it, that \"sonic collage\" is still what's important here. With all the column inches and message board posts arguing about whether M.I.A. is an opportunist or a clever contextualist, genuine or a fraud, full of good intentions or no specific intentions at all, the closest thing to a truism about Arular is that it's a taut, invigorating distillation of the world's most thrilling music; a celebration of contradictions and aural globalization that recasts the tag \"world music\" as the ultimate in communicative pop rather than a symbol of condescending piety. "}