{"label":" Seventh","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5548/homepage_large.d10e841a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Magma","title":"K.A","text":" A long time ago, in a galaxy far away... HAMTA\\xCF!! Allëhlüïa! Allëhlüïa! Allëhlüïa! Dear, dear earthlings. You never realized what awaited you from beyond the skies. You lived here, with your war and death, and wouldn't take good advice from a higher species. Worst of all, you have imprisoned the innocent ambassadors from the planet Kobaïa, who only came to teach you their peaceful, technologically advanced ways. Why did you do this? Didn't you realize that the Kobaïans would send help, in the form of the Ultimate Weapon? Of course, you had let the Kobaïans go, and were it not for the one guy on your planet with any sense the prophet Nebehr Gudahtt you would've surely failed to grasp the Kobaïan creed of self purification and communication with the Supreme Being. I mean, that's the reason you entered the Time of Hatred (Theusz Hamtaahk) and that whole Dead Earth (Wurdah Itah) thing. Come on, even you, adolescent beings of the universe, can understand that. Well, for the few of you still unaware, there is Magma. Magma don't worry, they're not aliens, just French play \"zeuhl\" (pronounced \"tsoil\"), which means \"heavenly music\" in the Kobaïan language, and lucky for you, detail the whole shabang. Led by drummer/vocalist Christian Vander, Magma began playing this stuff in the late 60s, and throughout the 70s produced a series of records that are either some of the most bizarre, fiery prog ever, or just instant party killers. First of all, they sing everything in Kobaïan, which means ixnay on the araokekay; second of all, zeuhl sounds like, well, about what you'd expect an alien rock opera to sound like: massed, chanted choral motifs, martial, repetitive percussion, sudden bursts of explosive improv and just as unexpected lapses into eerie, minimalist trancerock. Vander actually came from a jazz background, and is a major Coltrane fanatic, so it's not hard to see why he'd be so into intense, spiritucosmic concerns. But even still, Magma are pretty out of left field.K.A is a nugget of wisdom revived from a different era. During the early 70s, in between such classic works as Mekanik Destruktïw Kommandöh and Köhntarkösz, Vander composed a piece entitled \"Kohntark Anteria\" that he never got a chance to record. Parts of it showed up in later albums, but like Brian Wilson's Smile, it lay dormant until the time was right. And that time, young pilgrims of love, is now. Believers will be delighted to know that the band's first studio album in twenty years retains all of their power; K.A features everything we already love about Magma and then some. Newcomers: now is your time to jump onboard the train. As Zebëhn Straïn De Geustaah might say, \"Kobaïa Is de Hundin.\" Würd. Of course, it's not actually required that you follow the interplanetary libretto to dig Magma, which becomes very good news over the course of K.A three epiclength tracks. Titled simply \"I\", \"II\", and \"III\", they're joined together to form a single, monolithic slab of sound that really only has parallel in modernday zeuhl disciples Ruins (whose selfinvented language suspiciously resembles Vander's Kobaïan), and by proxy, the socalled brutal prog bands (Flying Luttenbachers, Hella, Orthrelm, Cheval de Frise, et al.). However, Magma are much less brutal, opting for more subtle, jazzinflected dynamics: the churning, spiraling patterns of vocals, keyboards and drums in the last movement, the impressionistic choral harmonies in the second and fluid counterpoint of the opening section. Magma are often compared to really oldschoolers like Richard Wagner and Igor Stravinsky because of their aggressive, often dissonant performances of deceptively complex music. Vander's melodies seem simple modal and repetitive but the lines weave in and around each other in a dizzying fashion. What's more, no matter how often they threaten to resolve into something calm and final, Magma are restless and hyper to a fault. The final movement moves through over twenty minutes of propulsive, whiplash drumming, lengthy (and, frankly, a bit meandering) soloing, and even relatively straightforward choral melodicism, so that when it arrives at its climax of a hundred proclamations of \"hallelujah!\" (or \"allëhlüïa!\"), I'm just about out of breath. Vander pushes the band harder and harder, and they ride out the last four minutes of the piece in continuous, orgasmic frenzy. In fact, another core aspect of Magma's sound is their almost religiousexperience intensity. (Some people actually accused them of promoting fascism in the 70s, such was the unified, juggernaut front they presented in concert.) K.A is a monster, and as good an intro to this band as any. I'm only too happy to spread the gospel. "}