{"label":" Emperor Norton","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5549/homepage_large.c3d99be2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"Midnight Movies","title":"Midnight Movies","text":" Judging from the press for Midnight Movies, you'd think Nico's stinky corpse had been exhumed from the Grunewald Forest and propped up on the east side of Los Angeles. While there may be no shortage of high cheekboned talent leeches in town, I've yet to hear any firsthand accounts of a 66yearold Bavarian cadaver wandering about. This, I'm sure, will be good news to Gena Olivier's parents as I'm sure she's been telling them for years that she, in fact, is the lead singer of Midnight Movies. While Olivier's ghostly baritone does occasionally hint at the Chelsea Girl's narcodrone especially when she drops tone at the end of a line she pairs the gloom with a winsome lilt that indicates actual emotion, all while pounding away on her drum kit. The easy comparisons are the nagging wench for Midnight Movies, though, and they don't stop with the singer. Guitarist Larry Schemel and keyboardist Jason Hammons blend the sprawl of Trail of Dead and Clinic's thundering hum with Stereolab's electronic flourishes, blanketing the album in a foreboding ambertinted haze. At times though, having such contemporary influences arrests the record's momentum, particularly when they are not hidden all that well \"Just To Play\" damn near samples the intro to Walking With Thee's \"Harmony\". The band's saving grace is its commitment to and execution of its textural aesthetic, owing as much to David Lynch's oneiric odes to Los Angeles as any musical counterpart. Midnight Movies shoots for a fevered dream in which the broad day's shadows and the night beyond the headlights are equally ominous, and more often than not, it succeeds. Schemel and Hammons' melodies lurk and lunge where necessary, and Olivier taps out the telltale heartbeat. Olivier's lyrics frequently resemble the diary of an apparition doomed to haunt the bearded and blackrimmed corners of neighborhood dives. On \"Human Mind Trap\" she mourns, \"Pondering inside her grave/hopeless knowing there's no end/she cries and cries\". Elsewhere, she sounds like the crazy girl who slipped pages of Gorey into your locker scribbled with poetry, most preciously on \"Words For A Love Song\", literally a laundry list of apt vocab. And here's where the Nico comparison is relevant because it is Olivier's voice as instrument that is most compelling, much in the same way that Reed, Dylan, and Cale manipulated the German ice queen's voice to reflect the intention of their compositions. If Midnight Movies sucked you'd have read a list of influences like Lauper, Yankovic and Har Mar instead of what's above. Some bands are lucky enough to get paid to find their sound. Some never find it. If Midnight Movies don't allow hype to flop their buttocks over their ears, they should be just fine. "}