{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5555/homepage_large.6a03309f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Magnolia Electric Co.","title":"Trials & Errors","text":" At first, Neil thought that Jason was truly the best roommate ever. It seemed like they had so much in common: nasal voices, a taste for writing long, slow, acoustic dirges, and a closet full of flannel. Sometimes they just stayed up into the wee hours of the morning talking about the apocalypse, and coming up with hundreds of song names that incorporate the word \"blues.\" But all that changed after Jason grew out his mutton chops, bought a straw hat, and started sleeping with Neil's girlfriend! Truly, living with a roommate can be murder... Jason Molina has never exactly hidden his Neil Young influence; most of his work under the nowdefunct Songs: Ohia nametag paternity tested right back to the dire epics of On the Beach's Side B. But after masterfully realizing and updating his idol's bleak, folk side on 2002's Didn't It Rain, Molina has spent the past two years dutifully understudying Young's pluggedin half first on Ohia's swansong Magnolia Electric Co., and then on the road with a band called, confusingly, Magnolia Electric Co. Got all that? If I could I'd draw a diagram. Now, for the first album released under his new alias, Molina rips another page out of Neil Young's playbook, releasing a set of sortanew and mostlyunheard songs recorded live in front of an audience looking to drink a few beers and hear songs about Midwestern lonesomeness. In the spirit of Time Fades Away or Rust Never Sleeps, Molina lets roadtesting and spontaneity trump studio polish, giving us his new material raw and sololaden. Of course, Songs: Ohia fans are mostly just about the hits, so a few recent album cuts make the setlist as well. The tone of Trials & Errors recalls the final Songs:Ohia album's shift into countryrock territory, although this record's fourpiece lineup can't recreate mechanical bull/chickenwire stage stomp of Magnolia Electric Co.. As a substitute for bombast, the band provides generous doses of good oldfashioned jamming; no track runs shorter than 5:50, and that's mostly due to lengthy dual guitar dialogues between Molina and sideman Jason Groth. Yet, it's all a bit much for me, and I'm the staffer who likes jambands. Nowhere is this new penchant for jamming more apparent than on the reproduction of the twosong suite \"Ring that Bell\" and \"Cross the Road, Molina\" from Didn't It Rain. Where silence and empty space used to be Molina's most appropriate and effective accompanist, the fullband versions presented here fill every nook and cranny with excessive noodling. Words and melodies get trampled in the melee, as Molina's usually haunting lyrical obsessions with darkness, astrology, and serpents are suffocated by the arrangements. Things loosen up a bit when Mike Kapinus moves from bass to trumpet for \"Leave the City\" and \"The Last 3 Human Words\", but only the most devoted listeners will get that far. If you make it all the way to the finale, \"The Big Beast\", you're treated to Jason Molina screwing up my whole brilliant intro idea by just flat out directly quoting the Neil Young songbook, touching upon \"Tonight's the Night\" and \"Walk On\". I swear I came up with the comparison before I heard that part, scout's honor! If anything, that final homage suggests that Molina would be better off releasing an entire album of Neil Young covers while he tries to find a way to apply his strengths to the new, fuller sound he currently favors. The album Magnolia Electric Co. contained a few glimpses of how that could be realized, particularly in the use of Ben Keithlike slide guitar to provide a narrative moan through thunderous epics like \"Farewell Transmission\". But the band Magnolia Electric Co. is no Crazy Horse, and Molina's vocabulary on the guitar doesn't yet have the presence to carry such extended interpretations of his material. With his talent for musically mythologizing a bleak worldview, Jason Molina is the closest thing Neil Young has to a modern heir. But, for now, with his electric efforts, he's still just playing dressup. "}