{"label":" Echocord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5558/homepage_large.2350317d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Mikkel Metal","title":"Close Selections","text":" Over the past five years, Copenhagenbased producer Mikkel Meldgaard has been orbiting the periphery of ambient microhouse like a shadowy satellite, releasing his subaquatic, postBasic Channel technodub in periodic 12\" maxisingle blasts on labels like Kompakt, Datamusik, and his homebase Echocord. Now, for the benefit of the vinylchallenged, Close Selections gathers a generous sampling of highlights from his Echocord plates along with several tracks of new material. The cumulative gravity of this entrancing collection of miniature collapsed stars should be enough to draw you blissfully into its molten core. With his grainy, narcotic beats and fluent swells of crackly dub, Mikkel Metal can call to mind the best of Stefan Betke's work as Pole, particularly on earlier tracks like \"Eight\". Unlike Betke, however, Mikkel never allows himself to get so preoccupied with process that his compositions are consumed by stylistic tics or glitches. Despite their minimal construction, there is a refined, measured sturdiness to the melodic structures of these tracks, as well as enough variation of instrumental texture to enable Mikkel to keep his repetitions hypnotic rather than formulaic. Mixing tracks from throughout his short career without regard for chronology, Close Selections accentuates the consistency of Mikkel's aesthetic, yet still one can discern his maturation as a composer. Several of the best tracks here are among his most recent (including four which first appeared on 2004's Sorano EP) and each demonstrates a variant hue of Mikkel's transfixing approach. \"Larkin\" operates as straight somnambulant minimalist dub, with its pulsating keyboards providing all forward momentum before gradually disintegrating into aerosol haze, whereas \"Luomi\" builds its fragile castle out of a mass of polished, pebblesized beats. By comparison, the 4/4 dancefloor throb of \"Image\" sounds positively locomotive its brief interludes of phased guitar providing a satisfying Lee Perry touch while the chilled slomo electro of \"Clora\" hangs in the air like smoke from a caterpillar's hookah. Of the previously unreleased material, only the setopening \"Rollin\", with its anxious beats emerging like footsteps in the fog, adds anything beyond connective tissue, with the new, vocoderenhanced \"Larkin (Reprise)\" counting as one of the set's only real misfires. Nevertheless, Close Selections not only proves Mikkel Metal to be one of the rare electronic singles artists capable of sustaining his captivating atmospheres over the entire length of an album, but that the impact of his spacious, icyveined ambient dub is felt even more acutely in this fulllength dosage. "}