{"label":" Cold Crush","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5568/homepage_large.172bf33a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"Mahjongg","title":"Raydoncong 2005","text":" Whether you choose to view life as an absurdly cruel, chaotic string of events or a profound struggle to satiate a benevolent troll at the earth's core, the coincidence is a gem of the human comedy. Whatever or Whoever brought the releases of M.I.A's Arular and Mahjongg's Raydoncong 2005 together on the same date, I would like to thank Him/Her or The Void. On the one hand, you have an absurdly hyped, burgeoning pop star who strikes rebel poses and affects scenester fashion and vernacular. On the other, you have Mahjongg, smartass Chicago artpunks with an Africa 70 fetish. So? Yeah, so their album covers look identical. Halffull Scenario: Bloggers, trend riders, fashion rebels, and people who want to own the \"Album of the Year\" descend on record stores nationwide, clearing the shelves of Arular in a rabid frenzy that makes the Cabbage Patch Riots of XMAS '85 look like a boxful of kittens. As the mob moves from store to store, devouring all in its path, those left behind wander the aisles in a bloody daze. Through the blur of a punctured cornea, they see the cover of Raydoncong. AK47s, ethnic people, colors, pretty colors. Arular stash, whut gwan! And the concussee contingent becomes Mahjongg's motherlode. Halfempty Scenario: People calmly sashay into record stores to the \"new release\" shelves, holding hands, two by two. As they peruse for Arular, one reaches for Raydoncong. \"No, not that one, silly!\" says the other. \"Haha, my bad! I saw banana clips and, well, you know.\" M.I.A. 1, Mahjongg 0. Before you get all spazzy, I realize that album covers have little to do with the worth of an album. But fate has drawn these two together, however tenuously, and the contrast goes beyond the images on the cover. Where the lovely Sri Lankan is being praised/maligned for her earnest/misguided injection of personal politics into pop music, Mahjongg have apparently decided to go whole hog and appoint themselves impromptu Western mouthpiece for the Congolese opposition. How's that for selfserving appropriation? Their website is a bewildering mélange of antifascist propaganda and record reviews from The Village Voice and Washington Post. Then again, the rants against President SassouNguesso are in French, so maybe Mahjongg just worked out a bandwidth timeshare with the Conseil National de la Résistance Brazzaville Chapter. It's all quite confusing, I assure you, but somehow Mahjongg's peculiar agit prop accurately visualizes their sonic delivery of junkyard afronew wave. Subgenre Alert! Building on the jittery punkfunk of their Machinegong EP, Raydongcong 2005 slaps together 46 minutes of beatheavy agitation and organized chaos. There is so much overlapping clatter, it sometimes sounds like backstage at a battle of the bands, with everyone eventually falling into tune through proximity. Nearly every song contains multiple vocals, tempo shifts, guitars jabbing into strings over electronic bleeps, and radio dispatches plus a drum machine not to mention synths in addition to pots and pans and sticks and feedback and possibly a horse. Actually, \"The Stubborn Horse\" is a lazy nag which unpleasantly puts a Sheryl Crow song on the tip of your tongue, but Mahjongg makes up for that gaff. As \"Aluminum\" was to Machinegong, \"The Rrabbitt\" is the standout oddity on Raydoncong. It's a song that sounds like nothing else on the album or much else at all. Equal parts Fela Kuti and Devo, it could sweat out a dancehall quicker than you could say \"Banana.\" Sporting a hypersonic cowbell, percussive guitar scratches, a bounding bassline, and the falsetto nonsense requisite to any proper dance number, old timers might want to tape up their pelvises for this one. As with M.I.A., Mahjongg's political gesturing ends up a mere distraction at the end because they find a way to shake your can. Mahjongg's version may not be as cutting edge, but it's effective. Now, if they could duplicate \"The Rrabbitt\" a dozen times per album, young Maya would be in deep shit. "}