{"label":" Debauchery","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5569/homepage_large.316c7bf3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Merediths","title":"A Closed Universe EP","text":" There's only one Meredith in the Merediths, and it's not a woman. It's Joe Meredith, and I've no idea why his surname became the source of the band's moniker I guess it works better than the Lucases or the Bryants, a few of the other options open to them. Anyway, there are five Merediths, and their debut EP positions them at an indiegeographical middle point between Athens, Ga., and Bloomington, Ind. The part of their sound that leans toward Athens is evidently borne of some notinsignificant time spent with Olivia Tremor Control on the hifi, whilst the Bloomington end of things is the part that leans toward economical restraint and a tendency to rock more straight than out. Bloomington's Impossible Shapes aren't a bad reference point, though I think the Merediths have a bit more natural melodic grace. These five songs cover a neat range of harmonymoistened poppsych, and it's immediately clear that they're best off when they inhabit a midtempo world full of vocal counterpoint that resorts to distortion only as an accent. I say this because the rawest track, \"Cruel Kind of Love\", is also the least successful, perhaps because the lead vocalist (they avoid informing you of which one this is in the liners, though I suspect it's that Meredith character) has to yell over the racket, and it's not his most flattering delivery. He does sound plenty lovely when his mates are backing him up on the mic. \"Let's All Live Underground\" even lays off the mellotron and casual drumming for a big a cappella go at the chorus, with the band all stacked on top of each other like something from a tamer Black Foliage. Opener \"Marmalade Maggie\" has a nice little trick at the 1:30ish mark where the cleantoned guitars back out in favor of a \"Strawberry Fields\" mellotron bit, and when it feels like they're about to toss every instrument they can find into the fray, they actually pull back instead, giving the listener a temporary taste of weightlessness. The best of the lot is \"Homo Erectus\", which unfolds over a humming cello and spills into verdant fields of processed harmonies and keyboard. It's an interesting examination of human expansion, culminating nicely in sentiments like \"evolution don't just happen/ It takes a little time\" and \"my god has two thirds of my brain.\" If that song is a launching pad for more like it, then the Merediths are worth watching. They're already quite worth listening to if you're into strongly crafted indie pop. "}