{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5571/homepage_large.2b5eec7c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Maximo Park","title":"A Certain Trigger","text":" There are two kinds of rock bands: Those who discovered the music first, and those who spent their allowance on leather and had nothing left for records. If Maxïmo Park fall into the latter category, they do a good job of hiding it. A Certain Trigger, the band's debut fulllength, is rife with enough peripatetic song structures and lithe arpeggios to convince substancequestioning naysayers of the Newcastle quintet's musical smarts. But, to an extent, yes, they're bandwagonriders, and latecomers at that. The New Wave revival has already dined out on the charts. That's why, working with the scraps of a restless trendseeking audience, Maxïmo Park's recent success in their homeland is so surprising. Rather than turning up pebbles for the next Big Thing or exploiting a quirk, Maxïmo Park hone in on the specifics of an umbrella genre. Like the Futureheads or Postcard, they play jaunty, precise power pop with punk's antipathies, exuding a tentative cool. Managing (mostly) without fashonista caginess and attendant snark, Maxïmo Park are an easy sell. Occasionally, there's the requisite sneer at an ex or a selfdeprecating barb, but A Certain Trigger is seldom anything short of gentlemanly. That civility translates to a sort of sneakiness. Maxïmo Park's muted dynamics, understated vocals, and starchy production stack up to a weak first impression. But over the course of a slow'n'steady courtship, the album develops character. The tug comes partly from deceptively complicated song structures. Maxïmo Park dispense with traditional verse/chorus/verse formatting while the melodies, insouciantly catchy, play dumb. Songs slide from verse to prechorus to chorus to bridge to postbridge with little fanfare. You're lucky to get a repeat, but who needs one when the band whip out with onetime, eightbar dalliances like the ecstatic, whirling bridge on upwardly mobile single \"Graffiti\"? \"Apply Some Pressure\", the album's lead single, is typically roundabout. The song twists through some punchy, stiffly syncopated verses, each capped by a unison fill, before slipping into an extended bridge, driven by the type of harmony most bands would have been content to ride for an entire song. \"Going Missing\", with its propulsive beat and manic mood swings, is an overstuffed suitcase of postbreakup ambivalence: Lead singer Paul Smith is resilient while awake (\"I'm going missing for awhile/ I've got nothing left to lose\"), mournful in repose (\"I sleep with my hands across my chest/ And I dream of you with someone else\"). Aforementioned \"Graffiti\", which features a wiry, Voidoidsstyle nongroove, is aberrantly looselimbed, but the architecture is anything but perfunctory, sprouting little detours at every intersection. The band's lack of swagger is refreshing amid the hot fussedover convicts and misogynistic sun kings of the New Wave sphere, but it also hampers the less convincing tracks (i.e., \"Once a Glimpse\" and \"The Coast Is Always Changing\"). There's also the question of why Maxïmo Park, a pop band, are on Warp, home to electronic visionaries Squarepusher and Autechre. The only reason I can think of is \"Acrobat\", an amazingly tender, droneseeped song that harkens back to shoegaze and Velvet Underground while embracing modern gadgetry. It's Maxïmo Park's \"Maps\", a song at once exemplary of and antithetical to its brethren. Don't take the comparisons as caveats. Maxïmo Park don't use their forebears as stepping stones out of creative desperation; it's a mark of their business savvy. Even if you know what's hot, you still have to make it pop, and nearly every song on A Certain Trigger succeeds. Maxïmo Park leave their grubby prints on each track, be it the teethgrinding squall riding atop \"Signal & Sign\"'s second verse or the synths and organs lurking merrily underneath every song like a loner kid who snuck in to the dance party. "}