{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5572/homepage_large.3d5c8530.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Maximo Park","title":"Missing Songs","text":" The rest of the world be damned, Maxïmo Park had a great 2005. Anglo techno megalopolis Warp made the Newcastle quintet its highestprofile guitarband signing, testing waters they've also populated, however gingerly, with progpunk instrumentalists Battles and vegetal folkies Gravenhurst. The band's first single for the label, \"Apply Some Pressure\", became its first UK Top 20 hit; when the track was reissued eight months later it became its fourth. This startling fortune made absolutely no sense. Maxïmo Park are a pop band lacking pop music's crucial feature: its immediacy. A Certain Trigger cloyed before it joyed; yes, it was a grower. I'm convinced that had partly to do with the way the band recorded the album. Favoring muted dynamics and fat, diffuse guitar and drum sounds that belied the music's rhythmic intensity, they leavened and prolonged what could've been a sugary hitandrun. Missing Songs has my back on this one: latealbum inclusion \"Apply Some Pressure (Original Demo Version)\" is basically a notefornote reading of the soupedup album version sans ProTools filters and expensive microphones, and it's a different song for it. So it goes with this collection. The songs don't wow, but neither did/does A Certain Trigger. Rather, \"A19\" and \"My Life in Reserve\" slowly chisel brains, overcoming underwhelming sonics to bang blithe melodies. Just as on the debut, singer Paul Smith exercises an English probity that starts boring and ends up either charming or still boring, depending whether or not you have the time. The courtship is just slower with these cuts, the payoff smaller. Few tracks on A Certain Trigger can claim a moment as strong as \"My Life in Reverse\"'s crude, uneasy bridge, but timid performance stifles the drama; the passage wants more measures and double the strength from its toilsome, chugalugging guitars. Give \"I Want You To Leave\" thinnedout guitars and a drier, denser drum sound, you've got Futureheadspotent punch. Instead the track, Missing Songs' most rhythmically sophisticated, feels scattered and onedimensional. \"Stray Talk\" fails to exploit the promising tension in its stiffstrummed breakdown, surrendering resolution too quickly and easily. Those are the tracks worthiest of a rerendering i.e., could ship off to a control room for grooming and undergo mods to occupy deep album slots. Others would require few tweaks at all. \"Fear of Falling\" facilitates Smith's best vocal performance by giving him least primacy, instead nearly toppling A Certain Triggersingle \"Graffiti\"'s monopoly on transcendent, heavy triplet outros. \"A19\" wins for best shameless use of cheesy oscillating guitar FX, the perfect terribleisawesome complement to an overeager hook. Album nadir, a cover of John Lennon's \"Isolation\", mercifully aborts mission after 74 ticks. Here Smith's voice ceases to convey sweet, slightly sarcastic indifference, rather coming across achingly precious. If your range is monotone, noncommittal is always better. Such miscues and the inherent lousiness of Bsides and early cuts collections notwithstanding, Missing Songs is the rare curio that actually inspires curiosity. "}