{"label":" Flameshovel","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13536/homepage_large.71927a75.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Make Believe","title":"Make Believe","text":" There's never been any love lost between Pitchfork and Tim Kinsella plugging his name into the site's search engine turns up seven results, with an average rating of about 3.3: Here's a man's entire career boiled down to \"Definitely below average, but a few redeeming qualities.\" You might argue that Weezer's Make Believe drew a 0.4 just for sharing a name with a Kinsella project, although sucking mightily probably had something to do with it. I've always found Joan of Arc's artified emo shockfests to be insufferable, but today, the Devil is ordering a personalized Make Believe Neighborhoodie to fend off a sudden cold snap: I'm dropping some Forkian love on Kinsella. Schreiber's gonna hate me (Ryan, did I ever tell you that I regard you as the Lewis Lapham of indie?). What's interesting is that Make Believe's debut EP isn't even a deviation from Kinsella's usual noodlerock screamifying the band is essentially Joan of Arc playing nonJOA songs it's simply a streamlined, rawked out version of the same. If there's nothing here a Joan of Arc fan wouldn't recognize as Kinsella fare, there's also surprisingly little that would lead a gimleteyed hipster to make the international sign for \"gag me with a spoon.\" Take opening track \"We're All Going to Die\". The lyrics are aiming high, and Kinsellas, ever the postmodernist, manages to sustain his truism and tautology laden screed on the denaturing of language for the duration. But screw the lyrics; the guitar sound is out of this world. \"We're All Going to Die\" is comprised of squelchy knots of squealing melody, and sounds like it was written forwards, played backwards and recorded forwards again. The offkilter drums and intensely prickly guitars are connected by slick, simmering bridges; it all comes off as psychedelic, proggy, or mathy depending on your age and tastes, but I've got to point out that if there's such a thing as postscreamo, this is it. Same goes for \"Britt's Favorite\", which opens with warm, splintering arpeggios that gradually cohere into a fizzy 4/4 stomp. These are the highest highs, and a whole EP this focused might have earned Kinsella a previously unthinkable 7.0. The other three tracks are more piecemeal, and while the parts that work are potent, the ones that don't are a little too JOA for comfort. But overall, this is a solid fifteenminute thrill ride from a dude I thought was only capable of Willy Wonkastyle terror cruises. "}