{"label":" Stones Throw","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5577/homepage_large.d5e77481.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"M.E.D.","title":"Push Comes to Shove","text":" With a monotonous flow and wearisome lack of vocal presence, MED can't help but take a restless backseat to his debut album's impeccable production, which comes courtesy of Madlib, Oh No, J Dilla, and megawatt stunner Just Blaze, moonlighting from his worldrenowned heatrocketeer dayjob to throw a slick stone of his own. Handling 10 of the album's 15 beats, the prolific Madlib takes the reigns and tosses off a steady stream of (relatively) clearheaded soulbubble beats that offer welcome respite from his other more esoteric, hitormiss avantpersonas. Meanwhile, the California MC unwittingly sabotages himself while attempting a hardtohandle blend of Kweliesque wordy consciousness and mainstream boastalicious chesthuffing but doesn't have the wisdom or swagger to pull off either convincingly. \"What U In It For?\" serves as a microcosm for the disc's failings. Madlib brother Oh No's poplock beat provides a head nod by way of its slithering synth bass playing off a highend guitar flick and panning digital alarm, but MED tries to stuff too many syllables into the verses, dragging down the syncopated rhythm. It's no coincidence the hottest part of the track is the minutelong instrumental outro. Clearly lost when it comes to hooks (the record's best choruses are decidedly MEDless), the rapper answers the track's titular question with a lame refrain featuring sleepwalking lines like, \"The beats and the rhymes, streets and the grind, I hustle for mines.\" MED nearly matches his highcaliber music from time to time. Singer Noelle recreates \"Special\"'s original Erykah Badusampling hook and her flighty voice adds a lightness that justly contrasts her partner's dense lyricism. \"We have to do it big or like a short fuse we soon to detonate and blow up for raising the stakes,\" he theorizes, deftly juggling the ideas of under and over ground rap as perky piano chords drive the melody while a slew of chimes and undulating hums go lengths to uphold Madlib's instantvintage reputation. Sounds of bongs being hit and tokers coughing can't ruin \"Never Give U Up\", an effervescent hornladen ode to marijuana. (Yes, Madlib's behind this one too.) The hook's badobe scat sample yields Push's most natural high, a feelgood anthem for hashhounds worldwide. The more commercialready fare is intriguing considering Stones Throw's unique place in the hiphop universe, but it ultimately disappoints. Just Blaze joint \"Get Back\" is an uncharacteristically svelte exercise in minimalism, with swooning strings and funky bongos subtly boosting the bump. But the producer so overshadows his MC, he's even awkwardly referenced in the track's chorus (\"Just Blaze where you at?\"). For an album that could desperately use more lightweight guest shots for simple variety's sake, Push is largely devoid of such fresh air. But it's A Tribe Called Quest and Fugees producer and parttime MC Diamond D's playful verse on the hypedup \"Pressure\" that crystallizes Push's failed potential. The hiphop vet growls semicorny lines like, \"And I'm grindin' so you won't see me often/ I'm tryin' to make 6 million like Stevie Austin,\" but, unlike MED, his goofy, nonchalant style sells the lines and, for a few seconds, you get an impression of what this album full of casually spectacular beats would sound like fronted by an MC who could do them justice. "}