{"label":" Twisted Village","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13187/homepage_large.86db91dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Major Stars","title":"4","text":" Wayne Rogers and Kate Bigger's vast output is an essential touchstone for psych heads, but they're often snubbed in scene roundups and other psychedelic primers. If discussed at all, mentions barely move beyond standardissue guitar freakout metaphors. Worse, the two are spoken of in the past tense. It's particularly surprising that their excellent current project, Major Stars, hasn't noticeably benefited from the renewed interest in Blue Cheer raucousness and distended fret shredding. They did collaborate on Live In Europa, a split LP with Comets on Fire, but otherwise seem to be shuffling along a murky path toward underground respect sans popular recognition. The trip started when Rogers formed Crystallized Movements with drummer Ed Boyden in 1980, while the two were still in high school. Biggar (aka Kate Village) joined Rogers a few years later and ever since the two have created some of the best underground American guitar music of our time while also running run the Cambridgebased Twisted Village label/record store. High points have been Magic Hour (with Galaxie 500's Damon and Naomi as rhythm section) and any number of Rogers' darkly plaintive and wailing solo albums. There are also raw spinoffs like Bongloads of Righteous Boo, Heathen Shame, Vermonster, and Wormdoom. After Damon and Naomi left Magic Hour to focus on their Exact Change literary press and eponymous folk, Rogers and Biggar formed Major Stars with bassist Tom Leonard (aka the equally underrated Luxurious Bags) and drummer Dave Lynch (Vermonster). The new rhythm section offers a heavier center than Damon & Naomi, who stitched a beautifully diaphanous undertow. Until now, the quartet's best effort was 2002's Distant Effects. But 25 years into the game, Rogers and Biggar have here turned out some of their best work yet. With Rogers/Biggar, you rarely get much fanfare: Despite their lavish guitar playing, these folks come off spartan: 4 is their fourth album and it contains four songs. On the other hand, it's also Major Star's first album put to tape in a 24track studio and the increased fidelity is a revelation. When played loud enough, it almost matches the aweinspiring feeling of their live shows. The session is from July 2003, and boasts phenomenal guitar licks, extended and acrobatic soloing, a dense and smoky (but also chilly and somehow pristine) atmosphere, and Wayne Rogers' shadowy voice, which is best described as deep, inked, and syrupy. It reminds me of constellations seen through dead New England trees. Or if J Mascis were a monk and not a stoner. I'm usually a big stickler for lyrics, but have never paid too much attention to what Rogers' is intoning. In general, what matters more than a libretto is how he breathes and tumbles between the guitars. On \"All Or Half The Time\", he lulls with beautiful melancholia while the guitars provide highlevel fireworks. Then comes the alternately lulling/blistering/nimble and everything in between 13plus minute instrumental \"Song For Turner\", and it's clear why the words don't much matter. Remarkably, unlike Comets On Fire or other band's they've helped spawn, the soloing is never harsh: Even when there's a storm of feedback, it always feels like a pillow. But a pillow proffered doesn't mean you'll sleep. This is the music of revelation and throwing off the sky's geometry; it maintains a heavy feeling of night, but more like sweaty 3 a.m. epiphany. If Kieran Hebden hadn't already grabbed Everything Ecstatic for his new Four Tet offering, the name could've served as the less modest title for this glorious mountain of skymelting psychedelia. There, I said it. "}