{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5581/homepage_large.ea19ec3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"M.A.N.D.Y.","title":"Body Language, Vol. 1","text":" Get Physical Music and its stable of producers (M.A.N.D.Y., Booka Shade, DJ T, Chelonis R. Jones...all or some of which might be the same people) coowned house music in 2004 with Tiefschwarz and Blackstrobe. Like the Frenchmen, they restored Brutish physicality to an underground house scene that had pushed clicks and pops about as far as they could go. But where Tiefschwarz stuffed their famed remixes with details, GPM tracks favored simple, crisp rhythms á la Metro Area and unadorned electro basslines. And where Blackstrobe oozed throwback EBM attitude and campy menace, GPM was almost friendly, nearly lush. The result was straight up enough to pull those who don't give a shit about microhouse and just subtle enough to pull those who do. Their second anniversary mix CD is probably the one record we'll point to in a decade to say \"that was house in 2004.\" Like many electrohouse pioneers, GPM has felt the pull back to house of more microproportions. Clubland boundaries are being upended all over the place this year, from Sasha and Digweed caning Kompakt, to Villalobos' omnipresence (everywhere except his club dates), to Isolée being the toast of all the rock mags (and, ahem, websites). \"Nerd house\" has almost achieved equal footing with prog trance, mostly since the international club circuit is coughing up blood. (Alternatively, and more frighteningly for some, there was never any difference between them except scale of economics.) Unlike the GPM Second Anniversary Mix, which had the cohesion of any mix builty of entirely out of the catalog of a strong label, Body Language strays further afield, sometimes deeper, sometimes more revelatory, but rarely as fun. Opening with a few tracks of clicks and cuts and a DJ trying to remember the names of all the Isley Brothers, trunks are finally rattling with the bass and nasty sand dune riffs of Booka Shade's \"Panoramic\". As the bass grumbles and glowers, Marlow's \"Quiet\" patterns some delicate vocal science (a cheap route to ecstasy that works every time) before the banging drums of Marc Houle's \"Has to Do\" brings a bit of needed earthiness to all those halfbreaths and chipped syllables. Guido Schneider's remix of Dub Kult's \"Bip\" has buried handclaps and scatting vocals dipped in heavyecho syrup. There's a long stretch of 80s revivalism leaning hard on the arpeggiation, be it Depeche Mode (Sterac Electronic's \"Destination Reached\") or Vangelis (HansPeter Lindstrom's \"I Feel Space\", which throws in some tribal house bongos for the hell of it). Francisco's \"Moon Roller\" applies Erasure melodies to Superpitcher drums, and Tiefschwarz's \"Isst\" brings the fat, farting Myloesque bass and cymbal crashes. \"Ball of Light\" is more socleanyoucouldeatoffit, immaculately produced techhouse from Mathew Jonson. Isolée's remix of Recloose's \"Cardiology\" does this insane thing where it makes it sound like a saxophone is dying, astral moans trailing off in background. Jay Haze's \"Appreciate\" is gospel house recorded through God's own phaser. And that's M.A.N.D.Y's big trick here. Body Language feels like microhouse, experimental house, whatever you want to call it. It certainly trades in all its clichés twitters and chits, streaks of overdone echo like someone rocking a guitar amp back and forth (try it...you can make your own Chain Reaction track!), fountains of timestretching. But everything is rooted in a more traditionally bodyfriendly form of dance music, or at least has a steady, heavy rhythm holding it down. Even when they go trolling for dork respectability they wanna yank those glasses off and muss your hair. "}