{"label":" Häpna","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5584/homepage_large.340ace18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Eric Malmberg","title":"Den Gåtfulla Människan","text":" When Swedish instrumental duo Sagor and Swing broke up last year, the world lost one of the few remaining retroloungeprog bands worth more than their weight in kitsch. The band's excellent Orgelplaneten featured the usual rollerrink organ melodies and surfrock inspired drumming, alongside spacier Moog excursions that somehow never quite sounded like the arcane, gnome hymns you might expect given their proximity to fellow Swedish legend Bo Hansson's classic 1973 Lord of the Rings LP (which you should probably download right now). In fact, Sagor and Swing produced some of the best melodies and mellowest moods this side of Cluster, and I'd mourn their passing a lot more if organist Eric Malmberg hadn't just released his first solo disc, Den Gåtfulla Människan (or \"The Enigmatic Man\"). Malmberg was responsible for the melodic half of Sagor and Swing's charm, writing most of the music and performing almost all of it via his trusty Hammond. For some reason, bands stopped playing this instrument despite a whole bunch of cool sound effects and rhythm presets that put most modern synthesizers to shame in terms of warm ambience, and absolutely destroy whole families of Casio sound banks. Den Gåtfulla Människan is a true solo record, eschewing drums or any other sound besides Malmberg's Hammond, but if antigravity mood music is your thing, you'll hardly notice the Spartan setup. Melodies ring, echo, and decay like reflections of ice crystals around Saturn; clumpy little drum patterns that sound piped in from Zuckerzeit gallop like analog unicorns under layers of finely aged space dust, the kind for which Tim Gane would probably sell his soul. Like countrymen Dungen, Malmberg's music could just as easily have been recorded 35 years ago as today, and like them, he manages to avoid the pitfalls of mining the past by being a perfectionist: this kind of music doesn't really get much better. The opener \"Det H\\x9Agre Medvetandet\" (or \"The Higher Awareness\" even translated, some of this doesn't really, er, translate, which I guess explains a lot of Abba lyrics) wastes no time in establishing the tone of the record, with a spectral glissando and reverberated tripletmotifs, all of which set up a solemn, almost hymnal melody. The optimistic, mistyeyed phrases sound like the first thing I'd want to hear in the morning, were I waking up in Rivendell. That's right. And Malmberg doesn't let up, as each song segues into the next; out of this mystical den flow the minor key arpeggios of \"Undermedvetandet\", sounding like I've been transported from an elfin parlor to the lunar surface. \"Jaget\" introduces a soft, pitterpatter bossabeat and a melancholy tune that is vaguely reminiscent of the break in \"A Whiter Shade of Pale\" though given the organ sounds, that's not very surprising. More likely, this is straight out of Scandinavian folk music, which is often faintly regal, yet colored gray. It's pretty. \"Språk och Tankestrukturer\" features more arpeggios, though faster this time, and a little similar to what Philip Glass used to do before someone convinced him symphonies and soundtracks were cooler than all night concerts in New York lofts. And again, the melodies keep the piece from floating into the stratosphere; Malmberg is always able to ground his music with things you can hum, even as you might feel you're levitating. The closer \"Människan och Evigheten\" does actually drift out to the celestial sea, but not before bathing itself in waves of milk via the drone of overdubbed organs and distant piano figures. True, Den Gåtfulla Människan is drenched in the trippy atmospheres of true blue space music and prog, but it's hardly pretentious or bellowing. Rather, this is the kind of thing that gives good names to organists and gnomes alike. "}