{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5587/homepage_large.754e7560.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"The Most Serene Republic","title":"Underwater Cinematographer","text":" Handmedown bands are wellknown solely because their members are famous for being in other groups. Along with the regrettable Audioslaves and D12s of the world, this phenomenon often stretches to high and holy indie rock and, with their revolving cast of thousands, Broken Social Scene have proven to be a busy hive of (mostly decent) indie upstarts. But with nearly every BSS permutation exhausted, the collective is wisely looking outward to avoid a halfhearted handmedown folly. As the first nonBSSassociated signing to their Arts & Crafts label, the Most Serene Republic are an appealing, wideeyed antihandmedown sextet that may not have any concrete physical bloodlines to their crafty Canadian neighbors, but with their sweeping, climactic pop tendencies could easily sneak into a BSS family reunion and steal some BBQ'd prime ribs with few questions asked. They also risk the chance of being thrown out due to some distantrelation quirks and contrasts. Instead of the charming, shaggy stoner vibe that permeates most of the current A&C; catalog, Cinematographer shows off a nerdier, bookish quality. Along with an ambient, instrumental opening \"Prologue\" and closing \"Epilogue\", lead singer and trombonist Adrian Jewett has a thin, highpitched delivery that sounds like an uberstereotypical Trekkie singing latterday Flaming Lips after one and a half Amstel Lights at the local suburban Toronto karaoke night. Live, Jewett's lanky frame sways awkwardly as he waves his hands around haphazardly, looking like an indiepop sorcererwunderkind who takes pride in emptying the spit valve of his horn. The geekiness is palpable on record as well but the frontman largely avoids overt annoyance thanks to his bandmates, who conjure a string of twisty, atmospheric indiepop ditties that sustain a polite if rarely astounding tunefulness. Awash in spacey keyboard effects and admirably varied, widescreen production, most songs go for big, emotional, fullbandchantingsomethingmeaningful payoffs but come up a tad short. Sometimes the problem involves too many instrumental ideas and vocal melodies packed into one track, inadvertently subverting its elusive eureka moment. \"Content Was My Favourite Color\" succumbs to this drawback as it combines speedsinging, a handclap breakdown, a vocal round, distorted breakbeats, and twinkletime piano all within its 4:16 consequently, the song is both impressive and frustrating. \"Where Cedar Nouns And Adverbs Walk\" has a weaker case of ADD and wisely homes in on the keyboardbop that drives its second half, the band repeating a battle cry of \"I think we all know the words\" with increasing intensity. With all of the members of the Most Serene Republic around 20 (they cite Kid A as their official musicalmindblow moment), they have an ample amount of time, energy, and bulletproof indie connections to push their \"who you know\" to \"what you know\" ratio even further into the right direction. If the group can manage to focus their youthful exuberance without losing their abundant spontaneity, their ambitions of becoming a true musical sovereign state could very well be realized. "}