{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5593/homepage_large.4c726754.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Brian McBride","title":"When the Detail Lost Its Freedom","text":" Brian McBride is one half of Stars of the Lid, the quietest band you ever barely heard. The other half, Adam Wiltzie, is off making rock records with Windsor for the Derby at the moment, so McBride has stepped out on his own. Instead of exploring other sounds, as his partner has, McBride opted to go even deeper into the quiet on his solo debut. When the Detail Lost Its Freedom is the sound of beauty replacing silence, as drones and small musical figures rise into the void and recede, creating a sort of oceanic pulse. Sonically and emotionally, the result bears a fair resemblance to William Basinski's recent work (especially The Disintegration Loops), but the compositions are much more directed and detailed. It's an album derived mostly from recordings of organic sound violins, trumpets, pianos, guitars but it takes those basic elements and fashions them into timbres that are hard to pinpoint through processing. As such, it's often difficult to tell what instrument a sound is emanating from, and the whole thing has a kind of faraway, aquatic patina, the aural equivalent of pictures of whales skimming below the surface in daylight. Though the sound, instrumentation, and harmonic development vary from track to track, the basic premise of the music seems modeled on natural rhythms, like heartbeats and breathing, especially the latter. There are moments that sound like a grand piano heaving a sigh, exhausted from playing etudes all day. One exception stands way out from the rest, though: \"Our Last Moment in Song\" is a big, dreamy slocore plodder moved along by rhythmic piano, slowly changing chords, whalesong guitars, and beyondblissed vocals, mostly wordless. It's a little jarring coming in the middle of this record, actually, but it fits the tone if not the apparent mission of the rest of the tracks.When the Detail Lost Its Freedom is essentially an exploration of the slightly more varied territory immediately adjacent to the realm of majestic drone Stars of the Lid last left us in on the Tired Sounds of Stars of the Lid. In it, he finds immense, enveloping beauty and the true power of a whisper. "}