{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5601/homepage_large.3264ac45.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The M's","title":"Future Women","text":" It may come as a surprise that the M's released their sophomore record in February. Like most winter weekends, though especially this last weekend, the weather in the band's Chicago hometown is cold and unforgiving. It's the time of year when you smile a little less, skip the gym once too often, and stay home cuddling up with your televison more than what's healthy. The M's eponymous debut EP and following fulllength were earnest, melodic reclamations of vintage David Bowie and T. Rex, eminently hummable and easytoswallow. Both were just a bit timid, however, as if the band was stepping in the footprints of their heroes in the snow, keeping their feet dry. Future Women, on the other hand, is a truck with chains on the tires and a plow on the bumper. It's a dense, ambitious record that finally has the confidence needed to pull of the swagger they've been approximating. Opener \"Plan of the Man\" gives you a feeling for what's in front of you layered guitars, rich harmonies, a dash of horns at the end but it barely hints at the quality of the rest of the album. \"Trucker Speed\" is the hook to bring you in, where the band uses every trick in their arsenal. Strings bring suspense to the song's finale, while faroff horns punctuate guitars that lap the sides of the groove like big waves on a small boat. Really, it's really drummer Steve Warsaw working overtime here: Witness a cowbell that sounds like it's actually dangling from a cow's neck, and then the pounding that precedes the song's second half. It starts as a tractor chase, but it soon becomes a highspeed pursuit under the city's elevated train. Elsewhere, \"Shawnee Dupree\" waves its threatening lowend behind its back while the boys make polite comeons in threepart harmony, and \"Going Over It\" adds church bells to the corners of its molasses guitar crunch, somehow making it all the more ominous. A wellplaced ballad (\"Light I Love\") clears the pallette for the hypermelodic \"My Gun\", where the high notes of a xylophone skitter across the everpresent grinding of the guitars. More familiar pleasures follow, like the swaying title track, the hornladen raveup \"Mansion of the Valley\", and the starryeyed closer \"Darling Lucia\". It's welltread ground the M's are bounding across; you'll hear fartoofamiliar barrelroll piano on \"Never Do This Again\", and you can see in your head the pained faces the guitarist is making for some of these licks, on the second return of \"My Gun\" and elswehere. But the issue isn't dodging cliché, it's how well you can swing it. The M's have found a canny chemistry out of seemingly simple parts (threepart harmonies plus a powerhouse drummer), and now, they've got swagger to spare. "}