{"label":" Crippled Dick Hot Wax","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5606/homepage_large.a53f82d5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Maximum Joy","title":"Unlimited (1979-1983)","text":" If you could use old music as fuel, we'd never have an energy crisis. Just when you thought they'd run out of great records to reissue from some genre or other postpunk, let's say out comes another mother lode from the vinyl mine and the collector's job gets even harder. If you bought all the reissues and kept up with all the mp3 blogs, you'd wind up with enough music in three just months to keep your ears packed until your greatgreat grandchildren shuffled off their genetically engineered mortal coils. But to the subject of postpunk's continued dividend payments: Maximum Joy were pretty special, and they deserve the resurrection treatment as much as anyone.Unlimited is a puzzlingly incomplete set it caps off at 56 minutes, while also dropping four tracks from the band's only LP, 1982's MXJY, which one imagines would have nicely filled out the rest of the disc. But while it's enough to make a completist wince in abject pain, the track listing is a pretty solid set of discodubfunkjazzpunk (and you could tack a couple other syllables on that hyphenate, too). Maximum Joy were the brainchild of vocalist Janine Rainforth and Tony Wafter, who were later joined by exPop Group members John Waddington and Dan Catsis. The music is reminiscent of the Pop Group's groundbreaking work but delivered in a more accessible vein, taming the nastier elements. Rainforth has a smooth, even alto that probably would have been singing British progfolk 10 years earlier and triphop 10 years later. It even sounds pleasant when they run it backward at the end of \"White & Green Place\", though she does get in a couple of bloodcurdling screams that scared the shit out of my cats on \"Stretch (99 Version)\". The latter track plays like it's made out of rubber, with scratchy guitars chickenstrutting over Kev Evans' funky bass part and nasty sax interjections. Tony Wrafter's arsenal of wind instruments gives the band a lot of its flavor he plays his sax and trumpet nice and smooth to complement the neohippie lyrics of \"Searching for a Feeling\", and he blows skronk all over the dub tracks. Maximum Joy prove to be a far less sarcastically named band than the Pop Group though they're far from sunny or optimistic, their music is stuffed with danceable grooves and bears a distinct lack of menace. It's not exactly pop; as melodic as it is, it's not usually very catchy, but it's bound to appeal to fans of postpunk's more jagged side. I can see fans of the Pop Group and early Shriekback (not in print at the moment, nudge, nudge) loving Maximum Joy, as they fall about halfway between those other two bands. If that's not your thing, don't worry there's bound to be a reissue of something up your alley next week. "}