{"label":" Plug Research","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5614/homepage_large.40690ded.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"Milosh","title":"Meme","text":" Some albums reward close attention; Milosh's Meme repels it. Which is not to say that this Canadian's second fulllength is a repellent work just a recessive one. On each of the album's 11 cuts, words dissolve into whispered vowels, vocals into the mix's cushy midrange, until finally the song excuses itself into the background of whatever conversation you happen to be having. Milosh occupies a hallway, as it were, between bedroom singersongwriter and lounge producer. His album's packaging an earnest blackandwhite closeup of an earnest Milosh suggests the former, and so does the backstory. Meme is supposed to have a theme, and a grand one at that: the breakup with the girl who inspired his debut, You Make Me Feel. Problem is, judged by the standards of confessional songwriting, Milosh fails the most fundamental test: We don't hear a thing about him on the entire album. Unlike his Plug Research labelmate Mia Doi Todd, whose fascinating persona holds every note together even as she swings from plucky folk to don't askDntel electro to cod reggae and back, Milosh is a complete cipher. The good news is that we shouldn't care. Milosh is not really a James Bluntian sensitive dude, or, at any rate, he's not only that. He may attempt to graft a singersongwriterly, uh, meme onto an album of sweet microproduced electronica with barely any lyrics on it, but we don't have to fall for it. What we have on our hands is a roll of moody wallpaper that will play brilliantly, which is to say opaquely, in a Schragerdesigned hotel lobby, or in any bedroom with a Barcelona chair carefully angled to \"interact\" with a strategic throw pillow. Milosh arrives at his recipe in the first ten seconds of the opener and from there never falters: treated piano loops, gentle pats of percussion (clicksandcuts, but nothing too sharp), and breathy vocals that denote neither sadness nor seduction, but rather, a sort of abstract luxury. \"Emo\" has so overtaken our vocabularies that it's basically become a synonym for \"plaintive\" I have already seen the word applied to Milosh; if anything, he sounds vaguely like Sade.  The songs build vertically, by adding and subtracting textures over a basic loop; unconcerned with momentum, they start, go on for a bit, and give up the ghost with one last vanillascented breath. Sometimes a line breaks through, such as \"Ooh, I made you cry last night\", and then we're back to the coo. On \"Couldn't Sleep\", Milosh tries some R&B; melisma, but...politely. Breakup album or not, this is essentially makeout music albeit scrubbed clean of any sweaty residue. The most energy the disc musters is on \"Playing With Yen\", which opens with fauxEastern bells but acquires an urgent midperiod Depeche Mode synth riff halfway in. Naturally, this song is the closer.  I rarely get to review music this docile. This is, in itself, a respite. The background is not the worst place to be if the party is good enough.  "}