{"label":" Apestaartje","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5615/homepage_large.3be4f8cd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Mountains","title":"Sewn","text":" Electronic musicians need above all to be good listeners. The computer freezes time and allows for reflection and microscopic levels of manipulation; you need good ears to decide what sound goes where and why. Brandon Anderegg and Koen Kolkamp, Brooklynites who run the Apestaartje label and work together as Mountains, fit the bill. Here on their second record they've assembled eight discrete tracks that are immersive atmospheres in miniature; each erects a palpable space for three or four or 12 minutes before moving on. \"Computer\" is listed as one of the instruments, but I imagine the digital realm enters at a late stage in the process; mostly, Sewn is an organic potpourri of oldschool sound guitar, accordion, field recordings, primitive oscillators, and so on. And the sound is balanced nicely, every instrument patiently stepping forward in its proper proportion. Listening is important, no question. But in spending a significant amount of time with Sewn, I can't shake the feeling that these guys perhaps spent too much time listening to and absorbing other peoples' records. The music here is solid and the tracks develop nicely, but Sewn isn't distinctive, and most of it pivots on stakes other artists have set down. Opener \"Sewn One\", with its uncertain drone that could be an organ but may be processed feedback, brings to mind Stars of the Lid circa The Tired Sounds of.... The repetitive acoustic guitar plucking over a quiet bed of electronics on the following \"Sewn Two\" and \"Bay\" points toward Greg Davis' first album Arbor. The gurgles, glitches, jittery processed guitar, and harmonica of \"Simmer\" sound like Klimek mixed with a bit of Mick Turner. And so on.  A couple of things stand out. There's a bit more in the way of field recordings here the splashes of water on \"Below\" boldly traversing the forbidden zone long ago mapped as new age. And the record exhibits an effective sense of restraint, never beating you over the head with a new development. But when the white noise rolls in like fog to overwhelm the drones on \"Hundred Acre\", the shift in dynamic sounds like an incorporation of an established technique. And it's not as overwhelming as it should be.  None of which is to take away from the essential high quality of Sewn. This is a nice record that I could easily recommend to fans of this style, and to be \"original\" at this point is not only overrated but may also be impossible. But atmospheric electronic music still needs to have personality something that distinguishes this particular sonic world from the many hundreds of others out there and Sewn merely conforms to established templates.  "}