{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5636/homepage_large.fde0e27b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Nina Nastasia","title":"Run to Ruin","text":" When Nina Nastasia's latest record groans into view, it sets you up to expect the gloomiest entry in an already dark catalog: the mourning strings and her opening line00 \"We never talk about the things we witnessed\" suggest an album detailing the rural nightmare so many (urban) artfolk songwriters dwell in, where the men are monsters, the women are widows and the graveyards are above average. But just when the album's ready to fall prey to clichés, it turns into something far more intimate and complex moodier, yet more subtle than her previous outings. On last year's excellent The Blackened Air, Nastasia an acclaimed New York singer/songwriter in a world that thought it had too many wrote songs that were cool and dusty. Her lyrics confined her as a spectator, or at best, the victim of longings; the action kept happening to other people her dad chased a man down the highway, her dog was the one dying violently, and it was always someone else buried in that graveyard. But on Run to Ruin, the distance dissolves: Nastasia inhabits these songs and slowly surrenders to the material, as the graceful arrangements of her last album become messy and passionate. As before, Nastasia matches her acoustic guitar with a striking chamber string section and odd folk instruments like dulcimer, accordion, and no more than twenty notes twinkled on a piano. The strings grind and weave through \"We Never Talked\" and angrily swell across \"I Say That I Will Do\", while Jim White of Dirty Three a perfect drummer for this group intuitively balances timekeeping with colors that sputter like rain on soil.  The emotions flare and subside, and so do the styles that Nastasia switches between: this is far more exotic than the straighter folk and country stylings of her earlier work, and she's writing longer songs with more room to breathe and swell. The meaty, gypsy melody of \"On Teasing\", the accordion weaving around the swarthy strings, is as unexpected as the tiny singing and almost tooprecious arpeggios on \"The Body\". But the most striking improvement is her singing. She's a stronger vocalist, her almostplain tone rising into higher registers, and her usual range has grown more earthily gorgeous. But more than anything, she demonstrates a new expressiveness: her singing at an even keel, but around the edges you can hear her start to let go. Like an antidiva, Nastasia inches through her feelings instead of flaunting them. She can sound cutting and ironic, like the dry hatred in \"You Her And Me\", a song whose flat lyrics come to life in a delivery that resembles the smartest loner from high school. And she's gripping at her most vulnerable: the album's strongest track, \"Superstar\", at first sounds like a reasonable Cowboy Junkieslike ballad, until she draws us in with how lost and helpless she sounds. She sings the key line \"I'm a superstar\" in a voice that's almost delirious with fatigue, repeating it again and again in weakly ecstatic surrender. As with her two other records, Nastasia recorded Run to Ruin with Steve Albini. Once again he claims he \"documented\" the record instead of producing it, and although it's expectedly closemiked and sonically flawless, Albini gets credit for capturing what happened, then backing off. It would be too easy, say, to shine up the handful of perfectly sentimental piano notes on \"The Body\", but Albini lets them speak for themselves. He leaves Nastasia's beautifully arranged ensemble to make its own mood: the dynamic extremes aren't smoothed over, and nobody polishes the mood or smudges this into a genre. More importantly, nobody tries to be Nastasia's drama coach nobody dictated how she should open up on these songs. While her voice was just a part of the tapestry on her last albums, she has finally become the emotional core, and half the attraction of this record is hearing her stretch out and make these discoveries while we listen. "}