{"label":" King Crab","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5639/homepage_large.011cd5c9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Nate Denver's Neck","title":"Prepare to Die","text":" It's just too damn easy to record and release an album these days. I used to firmly believe that as technology made things easier, quality would improve. I'm not sure now how I ever came to hold this foolish belief. Maybe it was too much protech scifi as a kid, or maybe a naïve believe in the democratizing effects of computers that somehow was carried over into the realm of art. At any rate, the bottom line is, I was wrong. Computer recording technology, by making it essentially as easy to release a CD as it is to bathe your dog, has only increased the amount of shit being put out. Lest there be any doubt, go to any used bin in the country. And as further proof, I offer up this CD from Nate Denver's Neck. Someone, somewhere, at some point in the whole process, should have stopped this from ever reaching my desk. What's being aimed at here (presumably) is a skewed children's album of electro/folk interspersed with sound collages and spoken word field recordings a fairly admirable goal, but the main problem is that it's carried off in such a mindless fashion that Prepare to Die teeters from mildly annoying to completely unlistenable over the course of 39 tiring minutes. The other main problem is that the album can't make up its mind whether it wants to be comedy/novelty album, or an album exploring \"deep\" philosophical questions (the kind of questions that tend to come up amongst friends in a college dormitory at about the time the last cold brews are being sipped). This lack of focus makes for an album that's neither very funny, nor very intellectually penetrating. There are a few cheap laughs like a muzaklike tribute to Slayer's \"Raining Blood,\" and \"Smashoptomus,\" the story of a childhood toy come back for revenge after its owner grows up and locks it in the closet for years. But, at it's best, Prepare to Die sounds like a particularly uninspired Ween jerkoff studio session. The most perplexing thing is that the label which released this is run by none other than Mick Turner of the Dirty Three. The Marquis de Tren himself, whose music I love. Maybe he owed the guy a favor or something. Seriously, Mick, let's have some standards here. "}