{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5651/homepage_large.cd107ec4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Nad Navillus","title":"Show Your Face","text":" Finally, a sadrocker with more than just tear ducts and an exgirlfriend. Hell, Nad Navillus might not even have either of those. Thanks to his choice of musical approach, though, this guy will almost always be immediately grouped with forebears like Nick Drake and Van Morrison, a singing, songwriting wayfarer with an acoustic guitar and a penchant for the harmonic and soothing. Unfortunately, this also gets him grouped with some of his less talented indie contemporaries: the singing, songwriting wayfarers with acoustic guitars and a penchant for the selfabsorbed and mindnumbing. Good old Nad, though, is fortunate to have talent. He can actually play his guitar, and play it well. Super fucking well, to be honest, like 40 minutes of the Leo Kottke workout. Lots of that folksy arpeggiation here, nailed with deadletter precision. This, my friends, is the calling card of dear Nad, and that which separates him from his oftclumsy genre mates. Good thing, too, that his real name isn't Nad, which would be a dreadful stroke of misfortune, given that 'nad' is the singular of 'nads,' conversely either a feminine hair removal product, or slang for testicles (i.e. 'deez nutz'). Rather, Nad Navillus is, more or less, the goldenfingered Dan Sullivan, the man behind all of this album's songwriting and production work. He enlists some help on the album to play instruments he can't play quite as well as his sixstring (e.g. the musical saw, courtesy of Joss Moorkens), but from what I can tell, Nad Navillus is Dan's baby. Cute baby, too. It's a good, wellbehaved little bugger, if not one that tends to sleep a lot. But sleepytime may be the name of your game once you've reached track eight (\"The Longest Straw\"), where the fingerpicked guitar begins to glaze your senses like an earfog. By track ten (\"Processional\"), Show Your Face has definitely morphed from an \"I'm listening to this because it's interesting\" album to an \"I'm not paying attention, but I'm feeling alright\" sort of album. If only the \"Hot Licks\" guitar education series had a \"Hot Songs\" or maybe a \"Song Licks\" analogue to help Dan with his songwriting. Then he would inherit the Spirit of Nick Drake and his apotheosis would be complete. For now, however, Dan Sullivan awaits his anointing. Oh shit! Did you notice this? Nad Navillus do you know what that is? It's DAN SULLIVAN fucking backwards. I just noticed that. How sneaky! We should call him Clever Dan from now on. Or would it be Nad Revelc? Hmmm? And hold on here just a damn moment: now that I'm getting into this whole \"find out who the artist actually is\" thing, I'll have you know that Danny boy is a 'touring member' of Songs: Ohia. Who'd have figured that? Hey now! I just sat here for 10 minutes, thinking of how I could totally waste Dan for tricking me so bad. But alas, I cannot, for Dan is pretty stinkin' good. Not great, but on the scale of stinkin' goodness, Dan is definitely above average. He's got the talent, he's got his calling card (read: distinctiveness), and he's a clever piece of work. If you own a coffee shop, you could surely buy this disc and play it for the benefit of your stimulantswilling customers. Similarly, if you have time to waste on Sunday mornings and don't have money for a jazz brunch at the Hilton, Dan may also be your solution (I hear he goes well with sausage). And finally, if you're a member of Songs: Ohia, you could pay Dan a few bucks, take him on tour with you, and maybe even teach him the virtues of quality songsmithing. Then we'd really have something worth writing about! "}