{"label":" File-13","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5656/homepage_large.b6ef9fd5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Need New Body","title":"UFO","text":" When it comes to spazzing out, it pays to be mindful of the basics. Sure, convoluted meters, intricately layered guitar noise, and vintage synthesizers made of only fishing wire and toothpaste are nothing to scoff at. But the essence of spaz has little to do with the aesthetic goodies that so often adorn it. And at the core \"spazcore\" lies a mixture of energy and humor that, when done right, can be just ridiculously infectious. While countless forgotten bands have turned out generic garbage in hopes of hitting the big time and getting chicks, artists like Gary Wilson and Brainiac's Timmy Taylor seemed driven by an uncontrollable impulse to not look cool, tempered by a profound understanding of their own ridiculousness. When Need New Body dropped their insane, fractured and brilliant debut in 2001, it was abundantly clear that they deserved a place in this esteemed tradition. That album's centerpiece, the epic \"Gamble On/Banji\" was not only one of my favorite songs of 2001, but one of maybe ten songs ever that invariably inspires me to jump around like a total jackass, regardless of social setting. UFO, Need New Body's much anticipated sophomore effort, offers up both more variety and more focus than its predecessor, as the band plows through underaminute goofs and involved jams with equal conviction and care. As with their debut record, Need New Body hardly decided to put their most accessible foot forward with UFO, opting instead to open with the distorted drums and seemingly random noise patterns of \"Giggle Bush Meets CompUSA\". Just as the song disintegrates into hardpanned video game noises, in comes \"Hot Shot\", a standout track and a pretty good template for the more accessible side of the album. At their most basic level, these songs consist of the band playing a \"My Sharona\" bassline and banging on things, but what makes them so spectacular is the unchecked energy with which the band approaches them, fueled in no small part by Chris Powell's frenzied drumming. UFO is a remarkably dense record, but even more remarkable is the fact that every single sound is integrated so masterfully into the framework of Powell's insistent 4/4 beats. Need New Body achieve some of their greatest moments when the aforementioned beats are transformed into something loosely resembling a pop song. \"Show Me Your Heart\" is equal parts video game soundtrack, spy theme, and banjodriven klezmer jam. Banjoist/emcee/\"singer\" Jeff Bradbury may not be the most traditionally skilled vocalist, but he has a knack for rhythmic singspeaking that perfectly complements the rest of the band. Bradbury's contribution to live favorite \"Pen\", with its unforgettable chorus of \"Pen pen pen/ Where's my pen,\" is not only hilarious, but lends the song yet another layer of rhythmic intensity. There will always be artists who go through the motions of \"freaking out\" in the hopes of soliciting a few extra cheers at shows, or injecting some energy into an otherwise painfully dull record. But Need New Body's enthusiasm, coupled with their adeptness at creating music both substantive and brilliantly eccentric, proves legitimate. Make no mistake, friends, this is the real thing. "}