{"label":" Cenotaph","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5657/homepage_large.1b96c841.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Need New Body","title":"Need New Body","text":" I'm a big fan of regional flavor in music, writing, food, just about everything. Which means these are tough times for me. American culture (if you want to call it that) is becoming homogenized to the point where it's getting hard to tell one place from another. Case in point: I recently moved from a small Midwestern college town to a sprawling Southern metropolis. Once upon a time, this would have meant major culture shock, but I hardly blinked, and now I feel like I've been cheated out of something. Imagine traveling half way around the world to find out St. Petersburg is exactly the same as Chicago. I'm not saying it's to this point yet, but wouldn't you feel robbed? That's how I felt. No matter where I go, I'm always only five blocks (or so) from the nearest McDonald's, ten from Starbucks, and so on. There's just this disheartening sameness everywhere I go. But, not to despair: there's always music. And one of the many great things about music is that it can preserve these regional distinctions. Defining musical periods throughout history have always been closely tied to geography unique moments that could have only happened at a specific place and time. Late 18th through early 19th century Vienna, early 20th century Paris, mid50s Memphis, late60s Detroit, early80s New Zealand: there's an unmistakable regional distinctiveness that sets these places and times apart. Even today, anyone with a basic familiarity with indie rock can usually tell the difference between a Chicago band and one from, say, Portland. Lately, I've been enjoying the regional distinctiveness of the sounds coming out of Philadelphia: the socalled \"Psychedelphia\" scene. The term is a little restrictive (and more than a little clunky), and many of the bands categorized under the catchall banner have little to do with one another. Most could even hardly be called \"psychedelic.\" But there is (at least from my standpoint as an outside observer) a sense of community underpinning many of these artists, and a common feeling of exploration rooted in common influences. Bardo Pond probably has the highest profile of any of the participants, or maybe the Lilys. But there's also Aspera (formerly Aspera Ad Astra), Asteroid #4, Lenola, Three 4 Tens, and the Photon Band (I highly recommend Lounge Records' Sounds from Psychedelphia compilation for a good overview). The band that first got me interested was Bent Leg Fatima. First off, what a great name, but more importantly, their early Pink Floydinspired saucerfulofdrone was a popeschewing wakeup call. Yeah, it was a little revivalistic, but not cheaply so. Bent Leg Fatima didn't last very long, but it was ultimately a good thing because threefourths of them went on to form Need New Body with some other likeminded freaks. Their selftitled debut does a fine job of taking the Bent Leg's best elements and warping them beyond much recognition by adding, well, a little bit of everything. It would probably help to say that Bablicon's Blue Hawaii recorded most of this album, and that Bablicon themselves play on a lot of it, as do Aspera (though their contribution is unclear). But while Bablicon's imprint is visible, they never overshadow the primary members. Need New Body share a similar sprawling, labyrinthine quality with Bablicon, but whereas the main point of departure for Bablicon is early Soft Machine, for Need New Body it's FaustbywayofZappa, or maybe Beefheart. At times absurd, ominous, or otherworldly, the debut begins with \"Dirty Bitch Medley\" as a wavering Middle Eastern horn intro launches into an ultrarepetitive beat that draws you in by making you wonder exactly when (or if) it's going to change. An interesting way to start off an album, it shows a lot of confidence and respect for the listener to put possibly the most abrasive thing right up front. Next comes a spoken word piece about a klepto monkey that will turn away most of the people not already turned off by the opening track. Maybe a little too goofy. But Need New Body are just starting up, and it seems as though the band purposely tries to set up a really high threshold as a means to weed out those not in for the long haul. After a few listens, all these parts make sense, but if you're not willing to put in the effort, forget it. (Incidentally, this is what's wrong with so much music: it doesn't expect anything from the listener; it just wants you to sit back and be anesthetized, er, I mean entertained.) This album knows it's good, and if you can't see that, it doesn't need you. Need New Body have embarked on an ambitious and mostly successful 22track mission to combine Krautrock with electronic, bicycle/junkshop noise, banjoled folk, vaudeville, Gamelan, traditional Vietnamese, and cheerleader chants in a way that defies much description. (It depends a lot on what you, the listener, bring to the table.) The resulting album is at once placeless and distinct, everywhere and singular. It's reassuring that someone has found a way to explore all routes and find similarities between them without reducing everything to the lowest common denominator. "}