{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5658/homepage_large.97248628.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Need New Body","title":"Where's Black Ben?","text":" Last month I saw Need New Body open for the Hold Steady on an exceedingly strange bill for New York, a city of typically cohesionminded clubs. NNB played a long, noodly set that had me going, \"c'mon, man,\" but also, \"wow, that drummer's good,\" and, \"I hope my girlfriend, who clambered here on a sprained ankle, doesn't kill me.\" The crowd tolerated opener Brother Ali the First Cracker of Minneapolis hiphop but by the time NNB reached closer and UFOstandout \"Show Me Your Heart\", I was surrounded by khakiclad thirtysomethings yelling, \"GO HOME FAGS!\" in between beer sips. Maybe getting jeered out of the Bowery was a humbling experience for the assertively strange Philly sextet, but chances are it wasn't a unique one, and if Where's Black Ben? is any indication, the hecklers only egg them on, pushing their music into starker, more obnoxiously goofy territory. And here they play provocateurs, aiming less to please those who dig than offend those who diss. In the barbate world of spazzcore, Need New Body aren't the best songwriters, or even the best musicians. Those titles go to Polysics or Man Man or Hella or Bablicon, depending on whom you ask. Need New Body's greatest assets are their most glaring deficiencies: a remote live presence; their albums' lawless lack of direction; and general, galling immaturity. (Check their website for a truly braincurdling experience.) But when these aspects go untempered by, say, a general interest in writing music, the resultant drool is a bad trip. Last we heard from these crazies, they were drowning nuggets of oddball synthpop in oceans of noise filler on 2003's UFO. One assumed (hoped) subsequent efforts would see them grow more discerning, not less. Ha ha, no. On Where's Black Ben? NNB shrug off their quondam melodic sleight like a bad hangover. While not lacking in catchiness, the album's hooks leave a funny aftertaste. Take opener \"Brite Tha Day\", whose retarded, geek emcee verses (\"All the girlies get horny when I pick up the mic\") are almost forgiven by an adorable kids' hour chorus. Almost, but Jeff Bradbury's overthetop vocals beg you to laugh first, sing along second a condescending listener cooperation exercise with little incentive to comply. Banjo strutters \"Poppa B\" and \"Peruvidia\" show touching sincerity (blame the wistful stringed instrument), but the feeling is more relief than enjoyment. Only on \"So St Rx\" does it all fall into place: Deigning to add melody to a lighthearted narrative about deadend Philly kids (\"'Oh, I'm hungry.' 'Really? Cool!' 'I dunno, you want souvlaki?'\"), the band achieve synthesis. But whenever they appear to be hitting their stride such as on the brilliant, Sun Rahomaging \"Outerspace\" it's right back into whackhead mode. Petrified of normalcy something they couldn't achieve if they tried Need New Body undermine their own talents, and Where's Black Ben? offers little else but fodder for our epithetslinging Hold Steady listener to dine out on. "}