{"label":" Seeland","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5659/homepage_large.2fe25aad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Negativland","title":"Over the Edge, Vol. 4: Dick Vaughn's Moribund Music of the 70s","text":" In our jaded, cynical time, few things are sacred. You don't tug on Superman's cape. You don't spit into the wind. You don't pull the mask off that ol' Lone Ranger, and you don't mess around with freeform radio. After all, freeform radio real, norules, noboundaries freeform radio is about as common in playlisted corporate America as a trustworthy politician. So, on June 11th, 1984, when listeners tuned into \"Over the Edge,\" the weekly freeform show hosted by socalled \"sonic outlaws\" and collage artists supreme Negativland only to hear 70s schmaltz standbys like \"Billy, Don't Be a Hero\" and \"Rock Me Gently,\" it's understandable why they might be upset. Though they may be better known for their studio releases and legal battles, Negativland's probably spent more time over the last two decades at a small California freeform station than they have in any studio or courtroom. Their shows are as unpredictable as they come; long mixes full of choppedup pop culture, oddball characters, weird pranks and audience participation (callers to the station are generally placed immediately on the air and allowed to interact however they please, so long as they don't say the forbidden word: \"Hello\"). A few such moments are included in this package. In a segment called \"Ringo Starr is Dead,\" the group tells their audience that Starr has died of a drug overdose and feigns a tribute, chopping up and destroying Beatles music while callers grieve, express doubt, and eventually curse them as their hoax comes unraveled. But on that fateful day in June, something went wrong. All anyone really knew for certain was that some asshole by the name of Dick Vaughn had taken over Negativland's time slot, and where previously they had tuned in for hours of chaotic unpredictable sound experiments, now there was only \"Muskrat Love.\" What many listeners didn't realize was that Dick Vaughn was little more than a creation of Negativland, the latest in a long line of characters. Why did no one suspect that Dick was the work of these wellknown pranksters? Most probably did. But lots of people bought into it. And the angry phone calls preserved in this, a new, expanded twodisc reissue of one of Negativland's finest \"Over the Edge\" releases, live on as proof. Other Negativland creations stop by for moments of delightful radio trickery, too, including visits from longtime staples like the irrepressibly irate homosexual Weatherman, nasally cultural reviewer Crosley Bendix, and the gluttonous Dean of Psychiatric Broadcasting, Dr. Oslo Norway. But the real focus here is Dick probably among the least beloved of any of Negativland's characters an ambitiousyettasteless radio personality and incurable phone prankster. The first disc of this release presents moments from \"California Superstation,\" Dick's first misguided attempt at radio, wherein he plays a bunch of vapid, irritating games with the audience and manages to irritate an entire listening base in a mere five hours. Also included is an assortment of Dick Vaughn's phone pranks. Apparently not content with destroying his own radio shows, Dick was notorious for calling up other, real radio shows, and wrecking havoc on the air. Disc Two documents \"Moribund Music of the 70s\" purportedly the firstever 70s nostalgia radio show hosted by Vaughn in 1984, splicing vocal segments of Dick's show with various listener phonecalls (both hateful and praising) and assorted strange noises. These clips are interspersed with recordings of offair phone surveys, where one member of the group asks unsuspecting listeners what they think of Vaughn's show while the rest of the group constantly interrupts the conversation with a barrage of mostly vulgar soundbytes (which, of course, everyone but the baffled surveytaker fails to notice). I enjoyed these moments thoroughly, but then, I might be biased. To the nonNegativlandobsessed, pranks like these, while certainly fun, might eventually get a little old. Without the thrill of listening to such shenanigans live, they do lose some of their spark and vitality. And as with any comedy album, what's funny the first time around may not sit so well on repeated listens. Still, the compilation works as a history lesson and it makes what comes next that much more amazing. The last quarter of this 150+ minutelong collection is dedicated to Dick's death (in a fiery plane crash, no less) and his subsequent postmortem appearances (which include a dying plea captured on the flight recorded, and tapes prepared in case of untimely death). Negativland pays homage to the recently deceased in a segment called \"Dick is Dead,\" a truly bizarre collage which is equal parts minced 70s cheese, black box recordings from plummeting planes, strange characters, crying babies and funky basslines. Ultimately, this set is not unlike the rest of Negativland's \"Over the Edge\" collections. Without a doubt, it contains moments of sheer brilliance, but there's so much material to wade through that it might as well come with a sticker that says \"For True Obsessives Only.\" Fans of the group's antics will inevitably eat this up, but for those just coming to the table for the first time, one of the group's more proper studiobound efforts might serve as a better appetizer (for what it's worth, Escape from Noise and the now outofprint U2 are the classics, though A Big 108 Place is my personal favorite). Of course, for a certain crowd those who, like myself, believe radio can be something more than the record industry's favorite whore there's a certain magic to Dick Vaughn. Even in its lessthanstellar moments, Moribund Music of the 70s is still oddly fascinating. There's always a certain risk inherent a feeling that not only is it possible that everything might go wrong live on the air, but that it's likely, too that puts these recordings on a plane far removed from most anything else going out over the airwaves these days. For those who still believe that art can be dangerous, that there's still a place in this world for true noholdsbarred freeform radio, Negativland continue to reign both as innovators and as inspirations. "}