{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13239/homepage_large.1b1726a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Basement Jaxx","title":"The Singles","text":" Collective jaws (okay, two) dropped at my workplace when it was revealed Basement Jaxx were free agents in the U.S. Could Astralwerks really be that stupid? How much coke did Radio 4 need? What sort of stygian rider clauses did the Air contract contain? Did Stormin' Norman have nekkid pitchers of their mama to get them to put out Palookaville? Though they never moved Chemsattheirheight numbers, I had assumed the Jaxx would have been one of the label's best sellers. Yet Astralwerks never seemed to know how to market a studio duo with a revolving cast of singers and players to a personalityravenous U.S. audience. To date, no Basement Jaxx album has sold 40k in the states. This can't be blamed entirely on the suits. Unlike in England and continental Europe, disco did die here, and it's been a long, estranged trip for dance acts ever since. We Americans generally like our dance music subsumed into a singer, even if that singer is Rick Astley. From their inception, Basement Jaxx have been a house act reconciling with song, and it's been a rather protracted process. They toyed with AfroBrazilian hoohah for a good few years before they started mashing up ragga, noise, punk, and R&B; in a Brixton sardine tin. Their 1999 debut Remedy seemed an unexpected explosion of fecundity from sorry old house music, but it was the result of five years in the lab. And it was only on 2003's Kish Kash that they finally, fully embraced verse/chorus/verse structures. It won them a Grammy, but it may have been too late. Even in England, dance music feels all but dead, as fragmented and nicheoriented as that late80s moment before house. The choice the Jaxx now seem to face is between fully embracing pop (as producers, though Felix Buxton has a lovely singing voice), or retreating to the safety (and reduced vision) of dance. Which is a fucking shame, because their essential tension (and what makes The Singles, a bestof that substitutes for their biyearly new album this year, so great) is between dancefloor compulsive repetition and hookcrammed POP. The obvious point of comparison is PFunk, and indeed Brother George lords over the whole B.Jaxx project like a spirit guide. He's most audible on opener \"Red Alert\" from 1999: hollow, metallic slap bass, templewincing gfunk synths, chanted nonsense, Big Bertha Butt vocals. The Jaxx had done funky, noisy, and slick before, but this was the first time they didn't portion them out like Weight Watchers, one sound per single. It helped that you couldn't see the joins. \"Jump'n'Shout\" was raggahouse that barely overlapped with UK garage. You can see guest Slarta John's eyeball veins throbbing, his vocals all but gobbing at you, as the boys play acid like they were Ron Asheton. This is the kind of stuff along with the 20,000 leagues fuzzbass of \"YoYo\" that pinned the \"punk garage\" badge to their knapsack, both insult and perverse identification. So they decided to keep ratcheting things up, knowing full well Phuture didn't title one single \"Rise From Your Grave\" because they wanted their music to soundtrack khaki sales. \"Where's Your Head At?\" listened to Gary Numan and heard Slade, doom metal, and disco simultaneously. \"Plug It In\" reanimated Bonzo to play boy band R&B; on oil drums filled with fulminative mercury. Maybe I'm just broken, but I can't hear this song and not hear a hit. Not a Timberlakesized hit (don't be silly), but still a hit. And they were never just for the lads; there's always been a slightly belittled girly side to the Jaxx. \"Jus 1 Kiss\" is twilight disco motion; that moment when the chorus soars as the groove kicks in is as swoonworthy as anything else in house. \"Romeo\" is R&B; played a little too fast, speedbossa with the most napetingling bridge of the 21st century. And \"Do Your Thing\" is just good oldfashioned gayasfuck piano barreling house. Somehow I don't think they're displeased this wound up as interstitial music in every other Queer Eye episode. If you think brassy disco is old hat, you're probably too straight for you own good. The second disc pales slightly, but that's a bit like saying David pales compared to the Sistine Chapel. Jaxx Bsides are generally heads and shoulders, knees and toes above 95% of electronic dance Asides. \"Bongoloid\" with a dreamy intro, clanking groove, bubbling raggas, and Smurfette intrusion is worthy of their albums as well as a guaranteed floor killer. (Why do you think they'd risk that justthissideofcheesy \"wave your hands in the air\" part?) \"Mere Pass\" samples the Modern Lovers' \"Egyptian Reggae\" (!) and sneaks a peek into a studio collab between Asha Bhosle and Eiffel 65, Bollywood Baeleric. \"Magnificent Romeo\" is an official version of Soulwax's Clash mashup, nearly as good as the originals. Not so sure about the live \"Good Luck\" (without accompanying visuals) or superfluous acoustic \"Romeo\" (though less superfluous than the acoustic \"One More Time\"), but they make more sense on a party disc than than Dillinja's (thankfully missing) collapsed \"Lucky Star\", featuring hands down the ugliest bassline of all time. If you're wondering what's keeping this from its 10.0, there are a few (very) minor quibbles. It's missing at least one major single, the grinding, squarewave raunchfest \"Get Me Off\". (Which outPeaches Peaches and which Janet Jackson should have wisely accepted when offered.) It's missing a few crucial Bsides, like the OhtheHumanity hailstorm of \"Razocaine\". Plus, the nature of a singles collection obviously means you lose out on the quirky asides no \"Living Room\" that make the albums so charming. But still, here are 15 Top 40 hits (and six certifiable number 1's) from a more just universe while we settle for Kenny Chesney. Basement Jaxx may wind up selling white labels out of a Yugo in Zagreb, but they already made \"Good Luck\", which is what those Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Awards are for. "}