{"label":" Smile","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5665/homepage_large.62360375.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"The Negro Problem","title":"Welcome Black","text":" Welcome Black opens with the love theme to your local nightly news broadcast, a stirring swell of flugelhorns and miscellaneous brass guaranteed to generate some semblance of interest, or if nothing else, outright puzzlement. Unfortunately, the only news breaking here is fortyminutes of bizarre, rigid soulpop. Film at 11. The Negro Problem who curiously feel they can get away with touting such a blatantly offensive bandname because one of their members is of African descent have slowly carved out a (miniscule) niche for themselves in the wilds of L.A. over the course of three albums by colliding mellow litesoul/jazz hooks with cutesy tweepop harmonies. People are stupid. They should realize that this hybrid is, at best, the sad approximation of a Prince/Promise Ring collaboration, and at worst, the textbook definition of \"unholy\". And yet, I remain torn on my true feelings for this band. On one hand, The Negro Problem have created a sound that is uniquely their own (among indie circles, certainly), and even managed to drag some mildly compelling grooves, kicking and screaming, by its toothy maw. On the other, I can't help but feel that this sound is theirs alone because no one else particularly wants it. At times, it sounds a little like 70s craprock a la Chicago; the rest of the time it sounds like 90s wussrock a la Hootie & The Blowfish castrated, I might add. With that out of the way, though, this album does have a certain smarmy, unreal charisma. The strange mix of twee, jazz, and country is like watching someone get assimpaled by a thorny branch on \"Real TV\" it shouldn't be funny, but the combination of it being both unexpected and not you is a powerfully comedic aphrodisiac. The first listen will grip you inexorably as your mind reels to imagine what asinine stunt The Negro Problem might attempt next. Will it be a Beatlesque trip down PsychPop Lane like \"I'm Sebastian Cabot\"? Or perhaps a relaxing soul jam straight off Al B. Sure's Do It 2 the Music like \"Lime Green Sweater\"? We don't know! But it's all good, 'cause we stop wanting to right around the fifth track, anyway. If I could make this up, I would. In fact, I was momentarily tempted to give this album another point for the lyrics alone, before thinking of you, the poor reader. Lines like, \"Now I'm boning up on everything (At the center room library)/ Haven't had a bath since George was king (That is why we're acting wary),\" (sung in rondo!) or, \"And in time all time will be time,\" are tossed around with carefree abandon. It completes the trifecta of surrealism with the deplorable selfreference of \"Is This the Single\", and more independent mentions of popcorn machines than you will ever hear on one CD. Like the ludicrously goofy bandname/album title combo, Welcome Black is often hilarious and, I will say with confidence, something the likes of which you are unlikely to hear anywhere else. But as the old saying goes, the jokes get old while the bitter aftertaste will forever remain. If it's soulpop you want, you'll have better luck checking your grocer's freezer. "}