{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5668/homepage_large.c0238dc3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Julianne Shepherd","artist":"Neon Hunk","title":"Smarmymob","text":" There was a small army of \"horse girls\" in my school, all prissy and gussied, who lived their entire lives to ride, groom, feed, and fawn over their beloved stable of honeyed mares and if they were blessed ponies. Like a homicidal marching band, they all seemed to be outfitted in the color lavender, with their long pigtails brushed to a taillike sheen. Though there was nothing overtly wrong about them (barring the girls who smelled gamey, I found an aura of creepiness about them, a lingering residue that I couldn't place but for my intuition. Isolated in their rainbowsandunicorns world, they were perfect and inhuman. Neon Hunk hit me in the same way. They play off the pathos of creepy/cute, exploring every crevice of adorableness through their unsettling, maniacally entertaining funhouse of quacking synths, an intricate spilling of drums, and incomprehensible, muffled lyrics. Here, though, you can identify the exact point of freakout: it's the scratching, buried presence of the vocals. Electronically altered to sound like either the heavybreathing serial killer profiled on Nightline, or the torturous and vengeful spider/hobbit hybrid that lives under your bed, the vocalist (cryptically named fucking \"MOTHMASTER,\" for god's sake) squirms his way through your worst nightmares, alternately drooling and shooting acid from his mouthhole. Live, the Milwaukee Hunks often don clashing acidcolored/acidprinted spandex, and happily, this aesthetic has bled into Smarmymob's cover art: Across a rainbow backdrop, a repeating image of three homicidal and deformed kittens drills holes into our minds. And that's fucking scary. However, unlike the kitties, Neon Hunk have mercy on us. There's a vein of selfaware hokiness pulsing throughout Smarmymob, but the expected element of irony is tossed aside in lieu of examining the total absurdity of the cute \"80s underworld,\" and presumably, scaring the shit out of its torchbearers. The kitsch is mostly in the concept; what's left over is an unrelenting, deceptively simple pixelchirp genetically similar to Blectum from Blechdom's Haus de Snaus or The Curtains' Fast Talks: brainspinning calliope rhythms occasionally sprinkled with gimpy C64 funk. (As heard in the drilling callandresponse trills of \"Uncle David\", or in \"Beefmastor\", which sounds like the \"Push It\" ringtone on somebody's blowingup piece.)Smarmymob gets the horsegirl illuminati stamp of approval, thanks to its overarching pop element, aka the herkyjerky, adorably ominous, scienceclass melodies. Then again, it's music totally loved by nerdboy noize dudes the world over who, when you think about it, aren't that much different from a troupe of 13yearold horse fanatics. This time, however, the music is actually fun, instead of Garth Brooks' \"Friends in Low Places\". "}