{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/571/homepage_large.39a36cec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Steffen Basho-Junghans","title":"Rivers & Bridges","text":" It's a damn bold proposition to sit down with an instrument and some recording equipment, and just play, with the intent of making an album out of the session. That's precisely what Steffen Basho Junghans does for each of his albums, though; he just sets up and plays his acoustic guitars without so much as an overdub to hide behind nor a quick edit to cover his ass. He's so surefingered on the fretboard that it frequently sounds like there are two or three people picking away at the steel string, but it's always just him and his craft, which by this point (he's almost fifty years old), he's completely mastered. Junghans' solo acoustic pieces, written for both six and twelvestringed instruments, are nothing if not deeply bound to the earth. Even his most esoteric, experimental work like last year's astoundingly inventive Waters in Azure has a deeply naturalistic feel to it; you can almost smell the forests of his native Eastern Germany in the pinpoint picking. Rivers & Bridges opens up with a twentytwo minute (!) meditation called \"The River Suite\", which while not strictly a suite, nevertheless embodies the flow of a river across miles of rolling terrain, to a tee. Rapidly cascading tremolo picking and sweeping strums burst like foam from rapids into the air, before the piece widens out , flattening for a lazy roll through less dramatic surroundings. \"The River Suite\" is complemented by another lengthy piece called \"The Takoma Bridge Incident\", an obvious reference to John Fahey's label, which nurtured the early careers of such acoustic guitar visionaries as Robbie Basho (to whom Junghans pays tribute, taking his name as a part of his own), Leo Kottke, and Fahey himself. These guitarists (and a few others like Sandy Bull, and perhaps Ry Cooder) are the most obvious point of comparison for Junghans' own work, but rather than simply walk in their footsteps, he continues their quest to push the very boundaries of the acoustic guitar. To this end, his work also frequently calls to mind the classical music of India, with its narrow harmonic scope and constant pedal points. For all its myriad permutations, \"Takoma Bridge\" remains incredibly consistent in the scales and chords it employs; the best section is a brief but breathtaking passage where he drops in brilliantly bright harmonics for color acoustic guitar harmonics sound so rich on a twelvestring, and he uses the instrument's resonance to his full advantage. Four shorter pieces round out the record, and each is masterfully executed in its own way. \"Rainbow Dancing\" (the other piece written for twelvestring) is very Appalachian in the way it blends a hesitant verse with rolling, dramatically articulated chord changes in the intervening sections. \"Hear the Winds Coming\" is yet another example of Junghans' facility for literal titles, as the first chords really do sound like the wind kicking up in great, dusty gusts. And \"Epilogue\" is just plain pretty, highlighting the simple pleasure of unadorned playing like little else I've heard since Jorma Kaukonen's \"Embryonic Journey\" sweetened the second side of Jefferson Airplane's Surrealistic Pillow. I'm curious as to how Junghans will be viewed in another twenty years, because I see him as the logical inheritor of the original Takoma ethos, and he's certainly the most consistent practitioner of it since Basho and Fahey both passed on early. Rivers & Bridges, for its part, doesn't so much move the acoustic guitar forward as encapsulate much of what the instrument can do in an accessible manner. It's a beautiful album, and solo acoustic music doesn't get much better than this. "}