{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/57/homepage_large.d3c9cc21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"ADULT.","title":"Gimme Trouble","text":" A funny thing happened the last time I saw Adult. Someone in the crowd requested their 2001 electro favorite \"Hand to Phone\", which wasn't so strange. Nicola Kuperus said she was sick to death of singing that song, which wasn't so unusual either. But then then she did start singing it, in an eyerolling parody of her old robot monotone: hand to phone, hand to phone, blah blah blah. I can't think of much better shorthand for the group's career arc abandoning those pitchperfect lightspeed electronics and diving off into a world of potentially embarrassing basement trainwrecks. Kuperus traded icy drone for the kind of witchy yelping not much heard since Bauhaus's prime. Adam Lee Miller traded cleanline synth flash for nasty bassguitar buzz. They added a guitar player; they spazzed out. And as much as each new release came out like a total mess, there was something in each of them that's totally fascinating, as if each of those risky sounds from cyborg postpunk to cheerleader pogo goth was one wobbly, perilous step in the direction of something much greater. The only question: when or whether they'd ever break past the wobbles and come out with whatever that great thing was. Is that thing Gimme Trouble? Not quite but this is a whole lot closer than anything we've heard so far. For one thing, there's the sound, which has perked up beautifully. Drum machine pump, bass blurt, synth clatter, guitar screech they all mesh clean and shiny here, and on some tracks they take on a slanty, minimalist bounce that practically breaks a smile. \"Bad Idea\" kicks off sounding like early Devo, something from an era where weirdoid punk and synthesizers got along naturally. The gogo drum machine and onenote guitar on \"Still Waiting\" leave the whole thing feeling vaguely like an early B52's raveup. Half the rest sounds like XRay Spex or Siouxsie and the Banshees there is vintage new wave rawness and gothinflected bounce all over this thing, and it manages to leave this band in freshsounding territory that's somehow miles away from most everything today's \"new wave revivalists\" and/or \"electropunks\" have even thought about trying. Best of all: no mess. No little timetrials, or sidenotes, or halfformed clatters just 12 songs that, while somewhat lacking in superblazing standouts, present a giant step up in coherence. That's good news: It doesn't feel so \"confrontational\" anymore, does it? With their last fulllength, Anxiety Always, it sounded like they were challenging us, deliberately nagnagnagging us with the shriekiest, most paranoid rumble they could muster. That was fun, in its way, and it's certainly not as if they've dropped that agenda. But the Adult. on this record can be \"fun\" in a much more pleasant, straightforward way the same jumparoundandscreechalong way their early electro singles could be. The only thing that still worries me is the memory of them on stage, with Kuperus posing and sneering and genuinely trying to act out the cretinousvampire schtick the band's been working its way through. Are we going to have to get Devo and Fred Schneider to come wave the landing lights and guide them to the sweet spot? This isn't scary toughguy muscle, guys it's spazzedout pogo geekpunk, and it's almost nearly there. Cover \"Rock Lobster\" if you have to. "}