{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5740/homepage_large.956cec67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"No-Neck Blues Band and Embryo","title":"EmbryoNNCK","text":" At first glance this improvisational summit meeting between No Neck Blues Band and Embryo seems a curious and unlikely match, but the same could probably be said for any collaboration involving either of these two iconoclastic outfits. NNCK are one of NYC's most shadowy and studiously enigmatic freesound collectives, while the Munichbased Embryo is a longrunning Krautrock group whose music is a stylish blend of jazz, space rock, and panethnic rhythms. Founded by percussionist Christian Burchard after he left Amon Düül II in 1969, Embryo have released more than 20 albums in various incarnations over their 35year existence. Burchard has remained the only consistent member of Embryo, a fact that might help explain the erratic nature of their extended discography. Early in their career, on such albums as 1973's semiclassic We Keep On, Embryo's music showed the distinct influence of Bitches Brewstyle electric fusion, while later records show the group to be progressively informed by Indian, Middle Eastern and North African sources. Much of their work, however, has been too straitlaced and overtly jazzy to peg them as an obvious forerunner to NNCK's primal, shamanic guerilla performances.  Yet despite their radical differences in strategy and approach, these two ensembles share more in common than it might initially appear. Both groups diligently shun categorization, drawing upon whatever stray traces of free jazz, psychedelia, ethnic folk, or Martian blues that happen to capture their fancy, while maintaining a decidedly liberal attitude towards possible instrumentation. Moreover, both units are clearly guided by the same dogged devotion to spontaneous invention, and it's this sheer undisguised enthusiasm for joint exploration that enables EmbryoNNCK to so accurately capture the dazzling midpoint between their two softlycolliding galaxies.  On the opening volley of \"Weider des erste Mal\" the album immediately satisfies the first requirement of such collaborations it sounds like all participants are thoroughly lockedin and enjoying themselves. As many as 13 musicians contribute to these seven tracks, and yet the collective sound is never inordinately fussy or impenetrable. Nor is it ever unduly chaotic, especially by NNCK standards. With so many individual players involved it becomes difficult to pinpoint who exactly is doing what, but most of these heavilypercussive tracks have a steady underpinning of marimba or xylophone that I mentally credit to Burchard. This sultry percussion helps infuse pieces like \"Frank Cologne\" with the same languid, fractured exotica that has coursed through No Neck's work since at least their 2003 album Ever Borneo! At points, as on the liverecorded \"Five Grams of the Widow\", the assembled rhythms can bring out some of NNCK's latent drumcircle tendencies, but the album's continual melodic updates and relatively short track lengths keep the performances from descending too far into repetitive tribal excess. Another of the album's more distinctive voices belongs to NNCK vocalist/ performer Takahashi Michiko, whose spirited pipes supply tracks like \"Wieder das erste Mal\" and the slightreturn of \"Das erste Mal\" with a hazy, generative propulsion reminiscent of recent Gang Gang Dance. The collaboration makes its most muscular avantrock gestures on the basscentered \"Die Farbe as dem All\", a loosetongued megalith that would've sounded right at home on NNCK's 2005 Qvaris album. This song is also perhaps the best demonstration of EmbryoNNCK's casual symmetry. As with all the album's best moments, it proves the border between the two groups to be as porous and illusory as any drawn on the atlas, and gathers all their accumulated force seamlessly together into a single, indivisible whole. "}