{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5751/homepage_large.a32cf823.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Non / Boyd Rice","title":"Terra Incognita: Ambient Works 1975-Present [featuring Boyd Rice]","text":" What is more interesting about Boyd Rice: His public image as a fetishist for totalitarian oppression, Satanism, Barbie dolls and the Brady Bunch or the music he's made as Non hemophiliac synth atmospherics, cauldronboiled spells of guitar feedback, and vinylloop dissections? Rice's typical media coverage layouts of him as a gothnoisenik redeemer prowling the alleyways suggests the former. Even without his image, Rice still makes music that can follow you home and lurk in a shadow outside your bedroom window.Case in point is Terra Incognita, a compilation of almost 30 years worth of Rice's ambient pieces and loop experiments his \"mellow\" moments. What follows are meditations within claustrophobic settings, where all four walls around you stand noselength within your mind. Repetition is often rendered as both forms of transcendence and fearful obedience to regulations. The music all demands close, patient listening.The album opens with the eloquent \"Solitude\", a tranceout that loops and splits a Phil Spectorstyle pianoandtambourine number. Rice separates the piece into two stereo channels then combines those for a \"moire\" effect, where phantom melodies and beats are heard. The song's three minutes pass by like a year in a day the music is hypnotic and addictive to the point where subliminal messages could be suspected. It's steeped in 60s Americana kitsch and yet a peculiar darkness lies within the ballardry, almost like slow dancing with Jayne Mansfield after her satanic baptism.The kitsch isn't out of place here, considering that Rice respects Church of Satan founder Anton LaVey, who wore a cloth cap with horns like a trickortreater and even cut a few lounge piano records back in the day. The same sensibility drives \"Immolation of Man\", where a sample of a tacky, prairiegrown country guitar tune is unevenly looped into complete nuisance, along with an untitled track of an Old West player piano collapsing into an autistic fit. Not for the meek.The rest of Terra dwells on sensations that veer between mental and architectural collapse. \"Cruneta Voluptas\" steamblasts a shimmering organ drone, while \"Father's Day\" loops a Zgrade horror flick flute and guitar duet into a soft din that might be play inside one's bleeding head. Rice knows that dread is best felt when it lurches from the bewildered mind to the heart, as \"Extract 4\" indicates with a dismembered music box melody that is gradually deepfried by a metallic screech. Elsewhere, an awkward rhythmic attack on a guitar that erupts into vengeful feedback on \"Extract 12\". This approach doesn't always work: \"The Fountain of Fortune\" slogs around a Hollywoodcliche \"evil\" choir chant and a hohum sample of a fountain. So while Terra isn't shocking or subversive enough to live up to Rice's image as an artterrorist, if you listen deep enough you'll sink to your neck. "}