{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5754/homepage_large.49517909.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Wellins","artist":"Tujiko Noriko","title":"Make Me Hard","text":" I remember being particularly excited to hear Tujiko Noriko when Shojo Toshi was released a year and a half ago. At first, there was a certain novelty in knowing that the somewhat unclassifiable Austrian Mego label, often responsible for a blend of heavy noise processing with a sweet undercurrent, would be introducing a wholehearted pop album. \"100% nerdy glitchboy free,\" read the press release. Upon finally hearing the album, the novelty was completely irrelevant. Shojo Toshi seemed to shed the antisocial shield and intrinsic selfaware cynicism of our rich lineage of electronic music. A welcome contrast to tongueincheek hiphop references (obsessively aiming at a mundane form of subversion), those who think the vibraphone is the endall and beall of exciting music, and the token group of runofthemill noisemongers. Aesthetically moving and impervious to inane musical politics, Tujiko Noriko had the potential to appeal to more than just elitist art snobs. The collage cover of Shojo Toshi, designed by Noriko's visual art team, SlideLab, explains the music better than I can. On the left side, a soldier sits atop a skyscraper, further down a businessman talks on a cellphone, and on the right, Noriko hides under a mushroom, shooting a baguette in their direction. The images are comical, inviting, and full of pathos, but perhaps what's most striking is SlideLab's restraint. A good portion of the cover is left to a monochromatic cream tint, allowing plenty of space for the drama to unfold within. Noriko's music is achingly similar, a singular, monochromatic chord progression or beat is spread over the length of each song, often pushing around six minutes, and is punctuated by masterful arrangements of sound borrowed from the surrounding world, be it a businessman on a cellphone or a taperecorded orchestra.Make Me Hard is a refinement of these ideas. The interjections of found melodies, concrete noise, affecting sense of disparate elements matched together, and the real selling point, Noriko's extremely emotive voice, are all placed in the expansive background of repetition. Noriko seems to narrate the surreal environment of her album, and the encompassing sense of autobiography adds to the unique allure of the work. The songs seem colossal in duration, even more sonically dense than before, and yet somehow restricted in scope. There are many different textural, cultural, and personal ideas at play on Make Me Hard, and Noriko has built what seems like a muchtoo rigid form for their display. The songs, while often achieving breathtaking eloquence, occasionally rely too heavily on Noriko's wellexplored ethereal and repetitive modes. The strengths and weaknesses of the album fit clearly into this design. If Noriko's work didn't expand small fragments of life into broad, encompassing, and passionate epics, it would lose much of its charm, yet the music, in its farreaching and complex toggling through thousands of pieces of aural detritus, throbs for a next step. There is a sense that this album might've been better served as either an epic, single piece, with attention paid to an overall sense of unity, or shortened by about 20 minutes, tightening the ends of the songs as they stand. Yet, this in no way undermines the great strides Noriko has taken with Make Me Hard. Despite comparisons to Phew, Haco, and even Björk, Noriko's style and personality seem without obvious precedent. Make Me Hard, while imperfect, is full of color and obsessed with the joy of observation. And, oh yeah, it's all in Japanese. Good luck. "}