{"label":" Tomlab","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5755/homepage_large.5eb2a02e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Tujiko Noriko","title":"From Tokyo to Naiagara","text":" Thus far, there's no catchy genre name for music like Styrofoam, Solvent's indiepop cutups, Ulrich Schnauss's less techy work, Pulse Programming vocal tracks, or Schneider TM's cover of \"There is a Light that Never Goes Out\": chilledout bedroom types working in the idiom of abstract electronics (i.e., patching and processing beats and samples on their computers), but writing songs like sappy indie kids (i.e., with shy vocals, sleepy melodies, and \"real\" instruments). The closest thing to a nametag, \"laptop folk,\" seems left over from the critical orgy around Mum, and it's far more evocative than accurate. The fact that no one's pushed to define this stuff as a coherent genre doesn't surprise me. For the most part, the trend feels too natural to turn into an event; it's been bound to happen since the first day IDM albums started sharing CDchanger space with indie bands or even earlier, when postrave and \"postrock\" came thinkily together with bands like Seefeel and Disco Inferno. It's also too broad: the artists may be connected by the processes they employ or the labels they record on Germany's Morr Music chief among them but their backgrounds, intentions, and the range of their results seem wildly varied, bordering on rock, pop, dance music, and abstract electronica on so many fronts that it seems silly deciding who \"counts.\" Writing studious pop songs with computers? That needs a name? Add to that the big secret that a lot of this stuff has just been too obvious, or too boring, to deserve a tag. A lot of it, in fact, sounds suspiciously like the same old indie songs with some timid IDM sequencing running behind them. Styrofoam's decentish I'm What's There to Show that Something's Missing, for instance, sounds like a bunch of Ida songs done over all clickandpingy: not nearly a bad idea fans of the Postal Service will like it but not exactly a surprise, either. If the standard namedrops in this field were anything like Tujiko Noriko, it'd feel a lot more like a notable development only we'd never start dreaming of a genre, because they'd all be far too idiosyncratic. Noriko, you see, is nearreligiously fascinating and spellcasting, even when she's treading the line on boring; compared to a lot of those studiouslooking Europeans, Noriko's work is remarkably disconnected from the usual approaches to laptop software and pop songwriting. Where people like Styrofoam make music that's pretty exactly the sum of its parts, Noriko mostly sounds like she's using different parts altogether, and the result feels like something Björk might hear in one of her druggier dreams. It's a strange image she draws forth, even more so on From Tokyo to Naiagara than on her first fulllength, Make Me Hard, released by Mego, a label mercilessly dedicated to the glitchiest of glitch experimentalism. This record has her moving to the popfriendlier Tomlab, and doing some deglitching in the process. The mental picture isn't of a baldheaded guy leaning intently over his laptop; Noriko's sinewave musicality feels more like someone sitting down at a piano to let loose a starryeyed sob of a song (and she does, indeed, seem to be playing a lot of organ around her squelchy sinewave bumps and whirs). From Tokyo to Naiagara is all about that type of reallife realroom hush and stillness, the same feeling as paying careful attention to your breathing: the songs unfold slowly from the most abstracted of places, taking shape serenely around Noriko's heavy sighs. It's that voice, and its inextricable relationship with the songwriting, that are the keys here. Noriko's remarkably clear, unprocessed singing its soul croons and brief pronouncements, and the almost discordantly close harmonies she wraps them into seems, at first, almost aimless, the melodies winding around too subtly and complexly for a single melody to stick in your head after it's passed. Sometimes this is actually the bad thing it sounds like \"Tokyo Tower\" doesn't move any more than the real thing but more often it's just an amazing drifting preface to liftoff: not unlike Thom Yorke's wandering moans for Radiohead, the lines all eventually rise and converge into a big oceanic exhalation. It'd take a lot of these runs over the climax of \"Pyramid Song\" any day. See \"Rocket Hanabi\", where a bursting drum loop, superlow bass booms, and dreamstate organ fizz all gather up into one of the record's many skysized swoons; it's what I imagine it would sound like if Boards of Canada teamed up with Nivea, or at least Miho Hatori. See \"Tokyo\", where an almost rhythmless abstraction of mismatched hissess and clunks arranges itself into a dubby slink (what I imagine it would sound like if... Autechre teamed up with Tweet? Nevermind). See \"Kiminotameni\", then, the most traditionallyconstructed of the bunch, which takes a simple bass pulse and airy hums to wash out and watercolor a sleepydream echo of synthpop; see the big swoon on \"Zipper\", which trips out like a degrowled Bjork before unleashing a total shivering killer of a \"lalala\" backup. It's all very heavylidded your head bobbing in aquaticallyslow motion and it offers little in the way of things like chord progressions and melodic developments, opting instead for the grammar of floaty tones and buzzy tweaks assembling themselves and cresting upward. It's easy to get lost, disoriented, and yes, for many, possibly bored, but all this is just gorgeous, and not in any cuteandpretty way: Noriko just might be sobbing and wailing. I would say it's worth the trouble of working your way inside this little world and finding your way around, but getting inside isn't trouble at all: it's lovely. "}