{"label":" Room40","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5756/homepage_large.5e99b352.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Tujiko Noriko","title":"Blurred in My Mirror","text":" When does food stop being food? Is it when you chew it? When you swallow it? Is it later, as it's broken up by your body's digestive system? It's an interesting question, one that probably has no answer, or perhaps has several that are equally correct. It came to mind as I listened to \"I'm Not Dreaming, King\" from Japanese electronic experimentalist Tujiko Noriko's Blurred in My Mirror. The track is the sound of a conventional song being eaten by electronic noise, swallowed and broken up into proteins and enzymes. Noriko's frail voice sings a wandering melody as guitar, saxophone, and drums kick up dusty texture below her, threatening to congeal into rhythm and metered chord changes, but never quite doing it. Australian Lawrence English's electronics coat the whole thing in a patina of slow breakdown, piercing with highpitched whines and ultimately gobbling up the song's conclusion. It poses the question: When does a song stop being a song and start being something else, say, a noise sculpture?Blurred in My Mirror is Noriko's sixth album, and it spends a lot of time in this gray territory, pop enough that it's emotionally resonant and musically memorable, but avant garde enough that it challenges your musical expectations and refuses to take easy paths. \"Tennisplayer Makes a Smile\" stretches pop ingredients even further than \"I'm Not Dreaming, King\", pulling Noriko's sung Japanese phrases like taffy into long, amorphous suggestions of melody as acoustic guitar plucks along unmolested by processing or glitch. Meanwhile, muffled drums lurk just on the edges, kept buried but threatening by English's electronic manipulations. Noriko speaks in English on opener \"Niagara Hospital\" before switching to Japanese, and her measured, almost casual manner of describing simple happiness when her boyfriend visits her at the hospital is disarming. A deep, squelching beat suffused with vibes and marimba stutters behind her, balancing the simple innocence of her words with skinprickling menace. The payoff lyrically comes with surreal images of a dancing doctor and her suspicions that she is losing her memory. \"Tablet for Memory\" and \"Shayou (Setting Sun)\" are the most overtly songoriented pieces on the record, with the former essentially an electronically generated slice of psychedelia. \"Shayou\" rides a complex beat riddled with subbass sine waves and clipped percussion, while Noriko doubles up her vocals on dramatic melodic phrases, suggesting a sort of alternateuniverse Björk.Blurred in My Mirror is an intriguing record that, while clearly not aiming to be pop, or even especially accessible, nonetheless possesses a few truly transcendent moments. More than simply exploration or experimentation, the album manages a measure of magic when it rests right at the nexus point of song and sculpture, pop and experiment. When does food stop being food? The answer doesn't matter so long as you're nourished. "}