{"label":" Lovitt","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/580/homepage_large.dd4bc815.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Bats and Mice","title":"Believe It Mammals","text":" Notes on Believe It Mammals: 1) Certain members of Bats and Mice Ben Davis and David Nesmith to be precise have past histories with bands I listened to back in the day when either living in Virginia, or making frequent show commutes from central North Carolina to Virginia. When not puzzling over past hairstyles (why didn't anyone tell me I looked like an idiot?) and wondering how the hell I went through one whole semester without attending a single class and did not get kicked out of college, I get a little misty and sentimental. Those were the days. 2) Lovitt Records. I don't know you people, but you've always struck me as nice guys. Maybe because Lovitt Records began in the town where I once managed to almost flunk out of college (several times), due in no small part to attending shows at which once and future Lovitt bands played. I do not hold this against them. 3) Say what you like about Davis and Nesmith's old band, the Sleepytime Trio. No one else in the world could call a song \"Butter Scaryflies\" and make it sound just as terrifying as the name implies. They were loud. They were selfindulgent. They may have represented the genre formerly known as emo (before the definitions of that got really weird), but they were never boring. And though I don't really listen to that kinda stuff in general, or their CD in particular, with great regularity anymore, it will never be sold back. 4) If you knew the band included members of Milemarker, Men's Recovery Project, Sleepytime Trio, Maximillian Colby not a single pop group among them, and each partially responsible for Richmond, VA's reputation as a haven for weirdos on the musical landscape you might fear for your eardrums when inserting the CD into your stereo, too. Yet Bats and Mice sound like none of the above bands. There's not a single instance of extended clanging, shattering guitar, fuzzy, unintelligible samples, or vicious yelping on the whole album. This is fortunate for listeners with heart conditions and obscure inner ear conditions, previously denied the ability to listen to Davis and Nesmith for medical reasons. In fact, Believe it Mammals sounds quite a bit like Sunny Day Real Estate. I put this CD on the stereo (my finger resting on the volume control) expecting to be immediately jarred by noise, and instead heard something, well, kinda pretty and melodic. Nothing wrong with that, but kinda anticlimactic if you're all amped up for the antithesis of pretty. I'm not going to eviscerate this band, because, though it isn't my thing, they do it pretty well. If there were a textbook case for the genre currently called emo, I suppose Bats and Mice would fit the bill. There's nothing overtly wimpy about the album: the vocals are confident, and the musicianship is solid. The songs are effectively catchy in that melancholy pop sort of way. Opener \"Safe Bet\" is easily digestible melancholy rock in the Death Cab for Cutie vein, which erupts into a considerable amount of screaming and dissonance at the chorus. It's not terribly pretentious. The string section didn't get flown in from the local orchestra. There are no keyboards, no misguided attempts at new wave, and no covers of your favorite 80's hits. The harmonies, particularly on \"Worst Comes To Worst,\" are subtle and adept. The songs are consistent. Though light on surprises, the melodies resolve to expectation. \"Where's Ann Arbor\" is a standout track of sorts, which drops the rock of the first half of the album (to my mind, the better half, but we're speaking in relative terms here) for a more soulinfluenced sound.Believe It Mammals is remarkably consistent. And though full of more scars, tenderness, pain, and hearts than you could shake a stick at, the lyrics stop just shy of sounding like Open Mic Poetry Yield at the Coffee Cantina. Is it boring? Maybe I can't say how many of you will go into this album with Sleepytime Trio flashbacks. It's not entirely fair to judge a new band by the prior work of its members, but usually the change isn't this dramatic. And to make matters worse, when seriously edgy musicians start sounding seriously accessible (even radio friendly) overnight, the implications aren't always so savory. "}