{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13540/homepage_large.44b6c441.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Numbers","title":"Life","text":" \"I'm shy!\" feigns Numbers's singer/drummer Indra Dunis, over the stopstart late70s rhythms we've seen recycled time and again over the last few years. Unfortunately for Indra, I am not shy. Life is yet another album's worth of intentional awkwardness and thirdparty posing the regurgitation of a time in pop history no one in this band or any other electroclash/new nowave act was alive to behold. Sure to namedrop Devo and Gang of Four wherever they go (like everyone else these days), Numbers fail miserably to do much else. They may have built their very own synthesizer from the ground up, but it sounds entirely conventional: Life contains ten songs you can hear done better by the bands that inspired it, and there's not much else to say. The tired, Gary Numanquality song titles (\"Intercom\", \"I Transfer\", \"Human Replace\") are embarrassing enough, but they've even got a number called \"Too Cool to Say Hi\" on here, offsetting any hope of a uniform stance with its thievery of Excuse Seventeen's early material. Like their contemporaries in Erase Errata, the barking lyrics profess a level of chic, detached selfconfidence, yet there's nothing to back it up live, these bands are puppies. You want to see detached selfconfidence in action? You missed it: the Jesus Lizard broke up. So did The Slits. In a sense, it's wrong to savage bands like Numbers and Erase Errata: they're obviously summer vacation hobbies for moderately wealthy college students gone pro, doing their dressingtobeclever impersonations of a late70s heyday they've been told really mattered. The dominant fantasy in indie rock today is one of fraternity, of conglomeration that out there, all over this great nation, kids are doing it for themselves, turning their backs on corporate radio. With Sympathy for the Record Industry alumni on MTV, the idea of a DIY/underground revival is a delusion so laughable that only the most naïve fashion victims could sustain it. Then again, there were few fashion victims as naïve as Sid Vicious, and we all worship him. Don't we? "}