{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5785/homepage_large.c3dc7f0e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Numbers","title":"Death","text":" Y'all know my colleague, Pitchfork's Senior Editor Chris Ott? Our rivalry to the death is going okay, thanks; we're currently interviewing contractors to construct us a Thunderdome. It started, predictably, with him throwing a Twinkie at my face during an argument about Xiu Xiu. My platelets were particularly low that afternoon, and my lip hemorrhaged all over the office, ruining my homemade Silver Apples tee. Anyway, the man CANNOT HAVE FUN. Somehow his pleasurereceptors got all crosswired with his analytical lobe, and he thinks thinking is fun. Check his reviews in our nifty archive to behold his pedigrist polemiciana. So you know what band is a lot of fun? Numbers. You know who dissed the frozen shit out of their recent longplayer? Ott. He turned in another of his \"State Of The Legacy Of Something Or Other\" reviews, claiming they were a rich man's Devo or Gary Numan (don't get me started about the day Pitchfork's Ry Schreiber chucked one of our ergonomic pencil sharpeners at me for defending Devo). Ott's disrespect was writ large when he didn't even get their album title right. It's called Numbers Life, not Life, so nyaah, you exacting motherscratcher! Yes, Numbers is derivative as all hellhole, their sound a clone xeroxing its carboncopied dub of a fascimile's simulacrumatic twindred. But they are so damn fun, barking dumb automaton slogans to junkily stilted laptoppunk ad giddeum. More, I say. Ssshhh, but Ott even donned a camo beret to \"ban\" us from reffing the holy war on terror or Bush's apocalyptic road map in our reviews. But dude, every news farticle I read about mininukes or Frankenfood or Halliburton or North Korea or Jihad McFatwa makes me desperate for some righteous escape through which to exhaust and celebrate my raw youth! You know what band is great for a night of whocareswe'realreadydead? Numbers. Death is a buoyant collection of remixes and restagings, principally of work from Numbers Life, and it manages to expound on the posthumanity of its source material, setting Indra Dunis' chants of answering machine lingo and traffic patterns against a grid of rabid oomchicka. The hohum rating above is to placate the PhDseekers in glitchography who scour this website; Death offers nothing groundbreaking in the field of DJ overhauls. But that does not stop it from being frequently awesome, as each contributor's cheesy or noisome configuration combines to predict what would happen if Negativland looted C&C; Music Factory. Though this incognito Anglo also gets megadissed, I don't care about his street resume: Gold Chains' assault on Numbers' \"Prison Life\" offers a hilarious intro, then takes a band who sounds like '74'77 Devo and reduces them funnily to '94 (Smooth Noodle Mapsera) Devo, before he busts into a BodyCountish punk skrang, bringing to mind grunge outliers Clawhammer and their album of Devo covers. That lauded klepto, Kid 606, turns in the least interesting of three versions of Numbers' consumeranthem \"We Like Having These Things\"; while Dwayne Sodahberk's take provides a slice of funk deprogramming itself, spoof act Zeigenbock Kopf outrocks both of these renditions with their speakershattering Teutonic gaypornathon, which swaps Numbers' hankering for Chinese cultural revolution syntax with phrases such as \"morning erections,\" \"man abuser,\" \"dancefloor manpiles,\" and \"bathroom sweatfest.\" As if an electro Turbonegro wasn't inevitable; relish this violation of Numbers' daffy culturecritiquing. Dymaxion's \"What Is The Product\" sounds like Pink Floyd's \"Money\" done up by Pizzicato Five and DeeLute until it unfortunately starts relying on SpeaknSpell vocal tones, which have been quasipasse since right before Beck abused them. Uprock's \"Alphanumeric Disinformation\" fascinatingly deconstructs Numbers' \"Information\" to a paramecium state, never letting it really start for threeandahalfminutes. Face it, Ott, this disc bumps! I love hearing rhythmagicans plug Numbers songs into their computers, atop our culture of people caressing their cellphones and glaring at cars like they need to hump the gashole. Numbers is right! Language is a code! Rock is a treadmill! Choose Death. I don't want to meet the person too icy to enjoy Original Hamster's wonderfully spastic, maximumoverdriven, WalMartyred handling of Numbers' subway intercom ode \"Human Replace\". And, yoho, Kit Clayton's \"Information\" blends anarchy with limobooty way better than Aphex Droid. But when I told Ott what I was reviewing, he said, sniggeringly, for me to include how he was a \"total culture fascist.\" He even accused me of pining for robochanteuse Indra Dunis. I simply must brain him with a brass spittoon. Have a machine day, dear reader, same as it ever was, same as it ever was. Same as it ever was. "}