{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5786/homepage_large.e404528b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Numbers","title":"In My Mind All the Time","text":" Comparisons are fun. Numbers are The Cowsills of showroom dummy punk. Numbers are the American MeltBanana, with singsong choruses in place of screamsong choruses. Numbers are to opening bands as Vienna sausages are to baby showers they're kind of always there, but I'm not sure they actually have any fans, except that one group of weird guys. Numbers are to Wm. Bowers as Wang Chung is to C. Ott. Homemade synthesizers are to Numbers as postpunk is to Rolling Stone: Technically, they have to be mentioned, but it reeks of tokenism. Numbers vocalist and drummer Inda Dunis is to tall as is is to is. Thoughtful commentary is to Numbers as it is to this year's presidential race: You can try it, but you're probably going to end up just bitching about nothing. Numbers are the Numbers of fun, retro dancepunk bands. And there's nothing terribly wrong with that. On their second \"fulllength\" (approx. 24 minutes) release, Numbers tighten up their act and spit out 12 micromachine sized pellets of spirited pogopop spaz. In My Mind All the Time is reminiscent of 2002's Life, except that the sound is more polished and the songs are marginally closer to \"songs.\" That means they tend to have verses and choruses, and sometimes little synthesizer or guitar figures other bands might call riffs. Same old martial bark, though, and that classically rigid humandrum machine beat is everywhere to be found. In a way, this album is a lot less energetic than Life, perhaps as Deerhoof's Milk Man suffers in comparison to their previous records. However, unlike Deerhoof, Numbers haven't yet won my trust that they can fall back on songwriting in place of visceral thrills. In the best case, they're a good dance band and no good dance band does their best work on record. By far the most interesting song on the album is the last one, \"Feelings\". It begins as a distorted synth drone, alternating between pulsating laser growl and pulsating major chord laser growl. It sounds simple and it is but it also sounds similar to the rudimentary blackbox experiments coming out of Wümme 'round about 1971. The synthesizer carries on by itself for a couple of minutes until drums join in with a slow, military snare pattern. Numbers will probably always be robots, but at least here, they're softhearted robots with pleasant Krautrock memories. The only time they get so nice elsewhere on the album is on \"Drunk with Pain\", which, during the verses, could almost pass for The Cars. Still, the chorus rams the zombie staccato vocal pretty hard, and there's a big guitar feedback breakdown in the middle, so best not look for too many changes of pace. The meat of In My Mind is the meat of Numbers: speedy, goosestepped punk vignettes. \"Go to Show\", \"Disease\", \"Dance Attack\", \"We're Numbers\" and \"I Will Smile No More\" are all variations on that template, while \"Hot Fire\", \"Waiting\", \"Anything\" and \"Product Lust\" are different mostly in that they're a little slower. That last tune actually reminds me of the first XTC album, but even that would have been a Barry Andrews song with disturbing background yelping. Two albums into their career, Numbers have amply demonstrated their niche among American dancepunk bands, but I could do with even more distinction. In fact, I would love never to begin another discussion about them with a lengthy comparison to other bands and/or party snacks. You know, Numbers are like sugarfree candy: I want to like them, but there's always something in the way. "}