{"label":" Castle","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5792/homepage_large.6faa80cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Nurse With Wound","title":"Livin' Fear of James Last","text":" Considering the length of his career and the diversity of his recordings, it's somehow reassuring to know that Nurse With Wound's Steven Stapleton has always pondered the same morose themes with the same relentless gravitas. But behind all of his eccentricities the gothic song titles, the experimental tape loops, the Lautréamont quotes, the sex and violence, the gnomic pseudoRosicrucian claptrap there's also a perpetual obsession with the same silly objects. The man never tires of bodily fluids, humming toddlers, and barnyard sound effects. I have no idea if this contradicts or strengthens his occultism, but neither of these tendencies the darkly surreal or the goofily quotidian has grown old over the course of the past quartercentury. He gets away with his pessimism and extremism because his tongue is so firmly pressed against his bloody cheeks. In the same spirit, Stapleton once claimed to only \"make up songs about being born\" and he's been born hundreds of times. By anyone's count, he's released over 100 albums and EPs since Nurse With Wound's 1979 debut, Chance Meeting on a Dissecting Table of a Sewing Machine and an Umbrella, and covered everything from scathing noise to lilting newage. The man released 10 CDs in the past 12 months. As I write this review, he's preparing a limitededition absintheparaphernalia box. Sure, it's easy to deride his eternally unfashionable oddities. It's even easier to just give up on the whole enterprise, since who could possibly have the time to sort through this horde of recordings? Not even Stapleton, apparently his new doubledisc retrospective \"variety pack\" seems to bounce around from the mid1980s to the late90s like obscure vinyl singles were just falling from the sky. There's simply no way Stapleton could satisfy everyone with Livin' Fear of James Last. It would either have to compile easily obtainable singles at the expense of longtime fans or promote obscure 12inches at the expense of neophytes. His approach is to not even try to balance the equation. Two of Nurse With Wound's most legendary albums Merzbild Schwet and Homotopy to Marie aren't represented at all. In fact, there are virtually no songs from the outfit's most fertile period (198084), onethird of the pieces are edited, and a good chunk of the album was available on Stapleton's prior compilations, Automating, Volumes 1 & 2. But, like his dadaist heroes, Stapleton makes arresting sequences out of utter chaos, and James Last is no exception. It's nearly impossible to discern which tracks come from which album, or even which decade. While most mid80s electronic and tapebased albums sound increasingly primitive in the Age of iBook, NWW's deafening armory continues to shock and pulverize with ribald energy. Chance Meeting's \"The Six Buttons of Sex Appeal\" shreds moaninginfant samples with piston percussion and haywire pager bleating. \"Dirty Fingernails\" tempers its rusty wheezing with Looney Tunes caricatures, seeming more like a precursor to Negativland than power electronics. Thunder Perfect Mind's \"Cold\" begins with electrocuted xylophones and then winds through the history of 20th century experimentalism, from classical serialism to sulfurous noise. NWW earned early accolades for this uncompromising brand of corrugated static and angst, but Stapleton hit a wall in the late80s and began diluting his more outthere work with unpredictable elements of pop, dub, and international folk. Drilling klezmer and brass bands make showstopping appearances. \"Two Halves and a Shine\" torques Cadillacloving hiphop. And on 1997's \"Subterranean Zappa Blues\", Stapleton pays the obvious homage to Dylan and Freak Outera Mothers, but ends up sounding more like lowbudget Tom Waits, all grimy bass and kazoo orchestras.  In recent years Stapleton has redoubled his efforts to create eerie, makebelieve field recordings. Nothing in his heralded early days is as evocative as the muted lunar frequencies and bent antennas of 2002's \"Ag Canadh Thuas Sa Speir\". Even better is the dark National Geographic rhythms during the psychotropic menagerie of his Current 93 collaboration \"Die, Flip or Go to India\". Of course, if the sheer range of moods and instruments here leaves some inevitably dull gaps, there are flickers of brilliance everywhere. The entire first disc constitutes some of the most rewarding and affective music of the last several years, while the second is more dependent on ominous and bizarre monologues. They're still entertaining but not as compulsively listenable as NWW's purely instrumental work. (The one exception is the nearperfect synthesis of hilarious narrative and chilling ambiance on \"A New Dress\".) Even fans with dozens of albums have probably heard only a fraction of these pieces. Conversely, James Last is virtually the only primer available for those who've never delved into the fearless mayhem of the NWW discography.  "}