{"label":" Hymen","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5798/homepage_large.1f7a1794.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"Nymphomatriarch","title":"Nymphomatriarch","text":" Many questions arise when you hear that Venetian Snares and Hecate literally made an album out of sex. Am I in a dream? Wait, isn't that what this year's Winter in the Belly of a Snake was made of? When did these two become IDM's JLo and Ben? Most pressing of all, why has no one ever thought of recording sex sounds until now? Oh wait, they did: it's called pornography. I think we can all agree that sex records are always a good idea, in any environs, under any guidance, with anyone. It does, however, introduce a bit of a problem: the distinction between art and pornography. Although I have a cursory acquaintance with the decisions of the Warren Court in the 1950s, it's an important thing to consider before dissecting this album. Am I supposed to be hearing it carnally as sex with a sort of narrative (including, pant, the climax!)? Is it just influenced by sex? Is it sex? Like all rhetorical questions, the answer to all is no. The dilemma inherent in a gimmick like this is that it's only possible to derive enjoyment from it if you know it has to do with an orgiastic camorra of naked, shivering technobodies rubbing all over one another. The album is composed entirely out of the recording of \"anal and oral sex, straightforward copulation, and 'microphone insertion.'\" But, perhaps unfortunately, this is pretty close to the standard recording of most pop songs in the last century. You think Elvis was big because of his music? Anyone seen Amadeus? In a year where Madonna and Britney Spears are luring ointment into the holiest of each other's crevices in Pepsi commercials, I don't need some experimental glitch/IDM freak telling me how you can make music out of moaning. Most of those popular songs are actually about sex. Nymphomatriarch is about melancholy sparseness and irony. Sexy? Whatever happened to Isaac Hayes? The intro, \"Input\", is the Mormon Tabernacle put on life support, and I guess about putting a microphone in, how to say, Hecate's \"subwoofer.\" It does indeed sound like shrill moaning and expanding orifices, but it would be unrecognizable if you didn't get the press release ahead of time. Basically, it just sounds like some inept ambience with some silly melodic synths. But things do heat up rather quickly. The percussion of \"Blood on the Rope\" seems to be almost entirely composed of the revelatory sound of asssmacking, though without any sort of visual accompaniment, it sounds more like someone masochistically slapping some girl's face at 30 miles per hour than the unleashing of raging lust (unless that's your definition of raging lust). Whether it's successful or not probably depends more on your sexual preferences than your musical ones. Put it like this: it gives a whole new meaning to the term \"drillnbass.\" Like the rest of the album, it might be more seductive if they got rid of the sex sounds. As it is, it doesn't sound extraordinarily different from playing Venetian Snares over a Hecate song. Nevertheless, between \"Blood on the Rope\" and the pummeled bruises of \"Pervs\", there's some pretty perfervidly maniacal rhythm on this album. \"Pervs\" may sound more like unzipping your skin than lecherous intrigue, but whatever, it's definitely got a bite. \"Amaurophilia\" also really doesn't have much to do with what the common man might call intercourse, or a commoner man might call \"boning hos.\" The noises are all gravelly crunching, running faucets, abandoned swing sets in Death Park. It's probably about as sexual as any other Venetian Snares album. I don't know what it does for other people; it made me cough a lot. These tracks are adequately creative, with or without the sex, but you wish it hadn't been wasted on a gimmick album. Unfortunately, about half of the halfhour album is dedicated to \"Hymen Tramp Choir\", which is basically the intro times fifteen minutes of your life. It's an incredibly slow, metallic sheen, about as sexual and exciting as cleaning a sink with Brillo pads. Of course, for many, this may be more like sex than sex. But, even then, Brillo pads are less expensive than CDs right now. It goes through some gushingly lascivious whispers, but rapidly transports itself to new age catalogues of waterfalls and phantasmagoric forests before finally crumbling as a phlegmatic yawn. Without this unnecessary tedium, the album might even reach into the 7's. There are clear antecedents here that I'm obligated to refer to: Matmos' A Chance to Cut is a Chance to Cure and Herbert's Bodily Functions, and probably some of that intellectual pornlit IDM kids are into, like de Sade or SacherMasoch. In a Rolling Stone interview producer RZA once testified that on a track off ODB's Nigga Please, the extremely irrational and arrhythmic percussion is actually the sound of Dirt McGirt banging some girl on top of a bass drum while he's rapping. This is and should be the sound of sex. Piling some fierce and propulsive beats over an echo chamber is not sexy (not even ironically); it's irrelevant at worst and frightening at best. "}