{"label":" Level Plane","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5802/homepage_large.b7685d0c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Neil Perry","title":"Lineage Situation","text":" Formed way back in 1998 by exmembers of You & I and Red All Over, Central New Jersey's screamo kings Neil Perry bobbed and swayed in basements everywhere to a cathartic strain of dark guitar chops, wisely calling it quits after four years while still at the top of their posthardcore game. Lineage Situation is the child birthed from the band's tenure. Daunting in its inclusiveness, the retrospective graciously collects forty tracks as well as a 35minute video hinting at exuberant singalongs and shoutouts to the kids and the crew. Though 40 tracks and a rocker video may seem both Biblical and overindulgent, the strongest pieces are four previously unreleased bits (that the scraps are this solid connotes an endless vault of hidden gems somewhere in the Garden State). In its four minutes \"Nine Minute of NonFiction\" features enough emotional guitar shifts for an entire short story; the instrumental \"Kicked\" tweaks the lush interiors of pretty head space with repetitious guitar lines that give the feel of an unresolved introduction; and \"What is in the Making\" is diligent in its melodramatic battle of soft/quiet, clean/distorted. As is often the case with latestage hardcore, lyrics are secondary: the vocal lines exist as a layer of pestilence, something else to knock about in your ear while enact a beautifully parsed robotic conniption across the dancefloor. Syllables do play a part, of course. Loud guys with chips on their shoulders often opt to distinguish themselves through the use of lengthy \"clever\" song titles. Not above this practice, Neil Perry totter behind smarmy bits like \"Igor, My Girlfriend Dumped Me... Let's Write Sad Songs\" and \"I Bought This Southern Rap Compilation and All I Got Was This Lousy HiHat.\" (Yeah, The Locust do it too, but because they eviscerate their compositions, the added fat makes sense structurally.) Forget the sophomoric collegeboy humor; Lineage Situation is best experienced as a strand of raucous and anonymous minimalism. Taken as a vaguely frantic tapestry, the comp succeeds as some truly toetapping background music; song titles in place, I'm reminded of one too many phony phone calls and a pair of fart jokes. Beneath the grunts and growls, Neil Perry are comfort food, a sonic security blanket. And though this set ends with the almost heartbreaking screaming whisper of the truncated \"I'm Sad for You\", with the band's participants playing now in Hot Cross, Welcome the Plague Year, and A Life Once Lost, it feels, really, like Neil Perry hasn't gone anywhere. I like retrospectives and contextualization, and yes, Neil Perry were definitely among a 90s hardcore elite, but the super cozy familiarity of this borrowed aesthetic makes even the topmost guns feel ultimately expendable. I miss my Minor Threat woobie. "}