{"label":" Feel","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5805/homepage_large.83b5d46a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"National Eye","title":"The Meter Glows","text":" Plenty of postrock players are preemptively pegged as spacey, or explained with loads of meaningless mathbased metaphors. However, Philadelphia's National Eye embody galactic mystery in a way that's pretty undeniable: prickly and dissonant, The Meter Glows, National Eye's eeriebutwarm fulllength debut, mimics the sound of a band blindly pinging about the universe and bouncing off of planets as it spirals, satellitestyle, further and further into space. The band's embrace of big, atmospheric oddities (including any and all internal discrepancies check their unexpected stylehops from track to track) doesn't necessarily mean that The Meter Glows is destined to sit perpetually out of reach, or even that the album will feel especially chilling to listeners. Flitting from Lipsish psych to country strumming to spectral, vacant whispers, the record packs its own quirky charm (see their surprisingly pitchy croons and a few overtly sentimental lyrics), and a generous slathering of melodic shimmer. In a way, the album's greatest achievement is that it makes discordance sound so endlessly inviting.The Meter Glows is also a stylistically surprising album. National Eye are tricky to pin down because they pull from many contemporary sources, but take their root influences secondhand. They offer a fresh rereinterpretation of an adventurous rock canon (ranging from Pink Floyd to Wire), as opposed to another rote mimicry. The approach may sound confounded, but the results are pleasantly surprising: opener \"I Ran Into Him\" is a sweeping start, with rushing vocals, inching closer, and distorted guitar noodling layered over crackling amp fuzz. The folky \"Dracula's Always with Me\" mixes a timid piano line with twinkling, effectsheavy guitar, while \"Just a Dream\" starts with a handful of yawning effects and settles into a sliding, earthy lament featuring all vocals, drums and tiny bits of bass and guitar. National Eye may wholeheartedly embrace postrock moodiness, but they stubbornly (and nobly) avoid soaking everything in a dulling puddle of drone. On the contrary, the instrumentation here is distinct. The band wields their arsenal of noise carefully, and with high regard to traditional songcraft; consequently, many of these songs are as memorable as they are abstract. Mixed by producer Thom Monahan (Silver Jews, Pernice Brothers, Beachwood Sparks), The Meter Glows boasts other interesting sounds from organ and ebow to creaking synths and muted microphones and the final collage is almost enough to make you want to teeter outside in your headphones, granting the record the kind of celestial context it requests. "}