{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5806/homepage_large.4f445b0d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Jack Nitzsche","title":"Three Piece Suite","text":" Jack Nitzsche had his thumbprints over much of American pop, from the early days of the Wrecking Crew and Phil Spector's monolith of radio dominance through Neil Young's nascent \"Expecting to Fly' and the Stones' \"You Can't Always Get What You Want\", all the way up through schlocky 80s soundtracks for Starman and the cringing \"Up Where We Belong\" duet from An Officer and a Gentleman. There's also an infamous early episode of Cops where he appears as the weird cokehead that lives up in the Hollywood Hills. At the time of his passing, he was supposedly slated to work in the studio with Mercury Rev. Originally an Internetonly release through Rhino Handmade, Three Piece Suite cobbles together two finished albums Nitzsche delivered to Reprise in the early 70s, only one of which was to ever see the light of the cutout bin. St. Giles Cripplegate remains a confounding, confusedly hung mobile of muddy cattle skull and dry bones, made somewhere between Neil Young's Harvest (on which Jack banged piano as a Stray Gator and all but drowned out Neil in the delirious orchestration of \"A Man Needs a Maid\" and \"There's a World\") and his crossover to soundtrack work like the schizophrenic Performance and 1975's breathtaking One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. To the deaf ears it fell on from that cokedup era's ceiling (and to a confounded Reprise PR group who thought they were getting a hit like Harvest II some six scant months later), it was considered a \"classical\" recording. But what does that mean, aside from the fact that, yes, the London Symphony Orchestra does appear in its entire 130 pints of glory? The charts have an internal logic to them (at least in Nitzsche's friedegg head), but the structure of the orchestra is abandoned in favor of neurotically emotional outbursts and chemically induced sensations of grandeur and paranoia. Tailored somewhere between the most schizophrenic and idyllic of tones, St. Giles is suspended above the feigned celluloid of fantasies, these six pieces tendering tempestuous moods that swoon between lusty volatility and a vertiginous lushness. Fervently sawed strings or delicately plucked pizzicatos hold the pieces afloat, and perhaps as a sort of preBoredoms number fuckery, track one is \"#6\", followed by \"#4 (For Mori)\" and so forth, concluding with the sixth movement, \"#5\". The clashing portions of the symphony brass and strings are titanic indeed, and more atmospheric than your Grandpa's Boston Pops records, but the results are schizophrenic Strauss and delusional Debussy. The unreleased record that makes up the second part of this disc would have been Jack's debut in the popular singer/songwriter vein so prevalent in SoCal at the time. Given his gradual shift to film work, it was birthed out of a collaboration with director Robert Downey during the shooting of his Greaser's Palace. With a bit of imagining, it could be taken as a soundtrack of sorts, perhaps something with Warren Oates in it. One where the faces tic and squint in the hot sun, and characters have rash outbursts of emotions every other minute or so. Fans of Sunflowerera Beach Boys, Van Dyke Parks, Randy Newman, et cetera will have plenty to bask in here, lots of peculiar rays and haze, if not one of the weaker singing voices. Thankfully, Nitzsche's producer sleightofhand shuffles the sounds rapidly, and random changes make sense like dreamlogic. Our man opens the album with a suite of sorts, smooth in his goodbye to \"Lower California\" before crooning out, \"I'm the loneliest fooool in the atmosphere,\" washing out to sea on his telltale tides of strings and piano. What follows is some south of the border jalopyholler on \"New Mexico\", but even that disappears after a minute or two. Even \"Moodus Run\", a bluesy floppybooted stomp, quickly dusts itself off with rubbed wineglasses, evaporating in the hot, hallucinating sun. That cues up the peculiar entrance of a young John Fahey, doing a surprising session of slide work for the wasted ballad, \"Marie\". After which, we arrive at the album finale, \"Number Eleven\", where the desert heat really gets to you. The track's tomtom drums and prairie ghost reeds are quickly obscured by a duststorm drone of symphonic hallucinations. The End? More demos follow. Unlike what we imagine most demos to sound like, here it's all silk lining, with more bows and strings than most artists see in a lifetime. Nitzsche sings all slurred again, drunk on strings, with weird odes to Carly Simon and the same bluejean baby that Elton John would belt about on his own \"Tiny Dancer\". And Fahey reprises his role as the rambling guitar slinger, gracing \"Reno\" with his trembling slide. While definitely not for every taste, there is enough weird, early 70s sound to beguile the adventurous, and what more could you ask from such a collection? Or is it in the end a soundtrack for a lost film? Or is it neither, just Jack Nitzsche somewhere strung out on the ether between Boston Pops and orchpop, his suit casual enough for reclining at the cabana, yet dressy enough for watching as evening's odd, drugged shadows crawl along the streets of Tijuana. "}