{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5808/homepage_large.406c8bf0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"B.J. Nilsen","title":"Live at Konzerthaus, Vienna 06_12_03","text":" Filmmaker David Lynch loves to build things. In Lynch on Lynch, he told Chris Rodley, \"Whenever you can build sheds, you've got it made. As soon as you capture some space and design how the shape of it is, mood starts occurring, light starts playing on the wall, and just to see it happening is unbelievable!\" I remember another interview with Lynch where he talked about his love of forgotten spaces, places like utility closets, the area beneath a flight of stairs in an industrial building, and so on. What's interesting about the unexamined corners Lynch describes is that they have an ambience that comes from the most basic elements. Walls, floor and light combine to create a feeling, instantly. Something similar happens with sound. The way ductwork in an old building groans, the buzz of florescent lights, the rattle of a loose shutter, plumbing gurgling somewhere a few floors away. When I'm in a certain state of mind, I can fixate on these sounds, what filmmakers call \"room tone,\" and let my mind wander. Swedish sound artist B.J. Nilsen, who also records as Hazard, apparently lives inside the sonic details of our everyday lives. Previous releases include Land, Wind, and Wood, all of which include, in part, processed recordings of the things described. Nilsen performed at the Vienna Opera House at a Touch event curated by Christian Fennesz (on a bill that [drool] included Fennesz and Philip Jeck), and Live at Konzerthaus, Vienna 06_12_03 is a recording of his set. The single 38minute piece begins outdoors, with field recordings of thunder folded in on themselves, so the crashes and subbass rumbles happen with manmade frequency. Gradually, an industrial palette rises and overtakes the natural sounds. Nilsen is a whiz with atmosphere, creating held tones that blend perfectly with whatever ambient sound happens to meet them. I listened to this set at a medium level in my apartment, and it was difficult to tell where the recording left off and the world around me began. It was like my living space (which was admittedly a bit noisier than usual with the warm weather came more sound from the street) was engaged in a duet with Nilsen. The bus offered an even more interesting effect, and the grind of the coach engine slipped perfectly inside the music's whisper and hum. Rest assured, though, that Live at Konzerthaus, Vienna 06_12_03 is fantastic on its own at high volume, when nothing else but its rapturous drones can be heard. Field recordings come and go sounds of wind, buzzing bees, that sort of thing but the soul of the record is the subtle purr of vibrating metal. Gradually, the sound field becomes more dense and the textures more insistent. Highend static starts to creep in around the 20minute mark, and the music develops a disorienting, psychedelic swirl. Over the last seven minutes, Nilsen erects a wall of pipe organ drone, pulled from material used to create \"Breathe\", his contribution to the Touch compilation Spire: Organ Works Past, Present & Future. It's an appropriate ending to an intense ride. "}