{"label":" Morphius","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5812/homepage_large.c36c338e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"The Necks","title":"Drive By","text":" Sheer bloodymindedness keeps the band moving. How else to explain the lone instrumental track that makes up the entirety of this record, chugging for one hour with no climax and just a handful of variations? Even at its most droning, this isn't a new age record that syncs up your brain waves and cycles you to a cloudbreaking revelation; nor is it straight jazz, as the rhythmic pulse is this record's dominant attribute. Instead, it's an excitingly monotonous longform work that holds its rewards close to the vest.Drive By is only the trio's latest disclong piece. Chris Abrahams fronts the band on keyboard, droning organ and a smattering of glassetchingly resonant piano, but the rhythm section drives this date, with Lloyd Swanton playing a select few different riffs on upright bass and Tony Buck displaying robotic endurance on drums and shakers. And even though The Necks work routinely in the hourlong format, they can still turn it into an event: Drive By ramps up portentously and then plows ahead like an engine, until (spoiler warning:) it wraps up like a puff of air at the finish. The clarity of their playing actually makes the disc something of a hard read. Minimalist music can drown you in tones, until the smallest details poke out like shadings in the instruments' wood; other bands' jams show signs of fatigue or clear arcs and releases, no matter how repetitious the music. But The Necks give up nothing. Any flaws or limits are hidden, and they draw your attention to the music instead of the means: You never get the idea that they're playing for an hour to prove that they can do it, or to showcase a glut of ideas, but simply to give you the pleasure of focusing on music in extreme detail. The music doesn't mesmerize as much as it propels: Either because of the title or because I listen to this on my hourlong highway commute, the piece reminds me of a long drive on a straight road, with only a handful of distractions. Listen to how gradually Abrahams veers from the course to improvise, less like a jazzman leaning in for a solo than a dog leaning its head out a car window; meanwhile, when Swanton revisits an early bass riff it sounds like a major milestone, even though he's absorbed right back into the flow. The biggest events are the flashes of beauty along the way, not arranged narratively so much as dropped intuitively like landmarks tapes of crickets, the sound of children, and most of all, the wideskyed, transcendent primary melody that Abrahams states just a few times, which sounds like a snippet of Joe Jackson's \"Steppin' Out\". It's to their credit that even these touches don't \"pretty up\" the album or force the way you interpret it, and you can take it as transcendent or mindless, ambient or rocking: As the Necks have figured out, you can hear a lot in a piece if you listen long enough. "}