{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5814/homepage_large.f37d3ba6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"No. 9","title":"Mushi No-ne","text":" Before Beck decided on the title of Odelay, he joked with Rolling Stone that he was considering Robot Jazz as a working title, riffing on the record's stiff 1's and 0's swinging between the beats. Gazing at the complex grid of squares, triangles, and parallelograms that interstice the rippling razor grass on the cover of Joe Takayuki's stateside debut, Mushi None (roughly translated: \"sound of insects\"), Beck's quip is less a joke and more a reality in this age, thankfully realized by artists like Takayuki who pull off the juxtaposition effortlessly. As rigorous as the discipline of this music appears to have been in the past, a recent spate of releases from Onkyobased players like Tetuzi Akiyama, Toshimaru Nakamura, and Ami Yoshida suggest that the silence which informs most of the city's music is more a sieve, allowing all sorts of other referential music to sift in, while at the same time keeping the focus squarely on soundspace. As No. 9, Takayuki mixes abstract jazz in the tradition of Eric Dolphy, Bobby Hutcherson, and Tony Williams in their Blue Note days with field recordings, then reassembles the results into crystalline, mathematical patterns. Flung into a melodic mix, he hyperactively shifts these patterns, provide every track with complex, doublehelix turns that reveal previously unglimpsed structures with each listen. Not since Four Tet's Rounds have I heard drum programming as loose with the kit, yet firmly interknit with timekeeping, evoking postbop drummers more than hiphop producers. No. 9 released the single \"Where Come From? And Where To?\" last year with remixes from Hrvatski and Bundy K. Brown, and the song reappears here, a sliver of a Henry Mancini film score gone manic spliced with catchy pieces of scatted gibberish. \"Survive\" seeks to invoke horn man Gato Barbieri (somewhere between his freeskronk days and 1972's Last Tango in Paris), transforming the sax into a sinewave that hovers at a Star Trek tiki bar, while drums blink in infinite Simon patterns on the back panel. Swaggering Lalo Schifrin spy themes swish along with monkrobed Autechre, never letting the complexity override the simple beauty of the sounds. Elsewhere, crickets shine like moonlit ponds and frogs twinkle like galaxies on the blatantly titled \"BUG BEATS\" and \"ECO EGO\", the lines between microscopic and macroscopic lost in the drift. The final portion of Mushi Noone is perfect for night listening. Basslines walk in the peaceful darkness, a perfect balance between stillness and skitter achieved after the knotty jazz charts that appeared earlier. \"Insatiable World\" gurgles and spits up tiny shards that should be familiar to Lithops fans, slowly sinking into evening's ambience. The title track is 17 minutes of crickets, digital buzz, and chopped up metallophones, the natural, digital, and handmade permutating into one another. Closer \"For Sister\" brings together church bells, flamenco guitar, cello, snares, and snaps (not to mention a cellphone melody at the end) for a lively farewell, proving that Joe can do downtempo as well as notempo. Mysterious or humorous, peaceful or bustling, Mushi None remains always in flux. "}