{"label":" Record Machine","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5820/homepage_large.e58861c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"namelessnumberheadman","title":"Your Voice Repeating","text":" In concert, Namelessnumberheadman are a frightening jumble of keyboards and samplers; cords snake to and from a formidable onstage mixing board. With the exception of the oftensinging drummer, the musicians are almost comically deemphasized, moving between instruments in precise yet panicky little dashes. It all looks less like a science lab than like a lowbudget set of one, complete with slightly overacting extras. Given this visual and the band's offputting moniker (it's a reference to Steven Soderbergh's Schizopolis, if you must know, but then you mustn't), you might expect Namelessnumberheadman to play something profoundly analretentive, like microhouse. You certainly wouldn't be prepared for distinctly Western vocal harmonies of \"Going to Breathe Again\", the laidback verses of \"Every Fiber\", or the Nick Drake strum that opens \"MidContinent\". For all the considerable studio trickery on display throughout NNHM's second album, its primary instrument is the acoustic guitar and its primary mood sweetly elegiac.Your Voice Repeating is by no means a folk album crusted over with itchyscratchy production. It is, like Suzanne Vega's 99.9\\xBA F (and not much else), a completely natural union of \"organic\" (guitar, porch) and \"mechanical\" (bedroom, headphones, ACID 4.0) approaches to songwriting each informing, mocking and correcting the other along the way. A perfect example of the resulting tension is an instrumental track titled, well, \"Tension Envelopes\". This is a trance title if there ever was one, and for a minute it seems as if things are heading in that direction, albeit with added twang. Over a sampled kick counting eighths, a sixbeatlong guitar loop shimmers, shifting hypnotically against the beat. The song then builds to the shaggydog version of your classic dancefloor crescendo (beats, riffs, keys pile up like an unattended Tetris game) only to resolve, three minutes in, into a languid concerto of mewling slide guitars. Another stunner, \"Going to Breathe Again\", opens with a tinny breakbeat, tosses up one exquisitely sculpted guitar verse reminiscent of The Shins in both sound and quality, and ends on a surprise compromise between the two. Following this level of sophistication, it's hard to go back to, say, The Postal Service, or any other band that dresses up verse/chorus/verse structures in IDM drag and calls its job done. NNHM's songs have a tendency to melt around our ears. \"Woke Up to Find\" is a Moebius strip of a ballad living inside its own ambient intro: A simple main melody is clearly forthcoming almost present but never quite pulls itself into focus. Elsewhere, a perfectpop verse disappears suddenly in a swirl of elements, swallowed up by the very organs and chimes that made it pleasant to begin with. The real wonder is that there's not a jarring turn on the album: All transitions seem to heed their own dreamlogic. Mutations are often subtle and gradual. My uneducated guess about Namelessnumberheadman's production methods is that they sample tidbits of their songs in real time, proceed to digitally twist them into abstraction, then untwist back. What results is a weirdly humanistic, highly accessible approach to experimental electronics.Your Voice Repeating is an album shot through with digital pulses, yet there's not a single moment where you don't feel the hand on the button. Namelessnumberheadman succeed in creating a technocratic pasture where machines are given souls but don't turn on their masters. The album's title, and a short song that contains it, spell out the band's manifesto better than I could: Your voice, even put through the rude mechanics of repetition, is still your voice. "}