{"label":" Eclipse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5828/homepage_large.7aa5a154.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Marissa Nadler","title":"The Saga of Mayflower May","text":" Marissa Nadler's 2004 album Ballads of Living and Dying was a burnished gem of entrancing, spectral folk, and with her followup she not only returns to the luminous musical landscape of her debut but also to her enigmatic character Mayflower May. Though not the cohesive narrative its title implies, The Saga of Mayflower May again finds Nadler skillfully echoing the forms of traditional English balladry as she crafts another captivating collection of songs steeped in the melancholy of distant, halfforgotten passion, doomed love affairs, and various crimes of the heart. As a vocalist Nadler is considerably less idiosyncratic than such peers as Joanna Newsom or Josephine Foster, and here her dusky, livedin soprano settles diffusely between contemporaries like Hope Sandoval and Chan Marshall, and 60sera folkies like Vashti Bunyan or Mimi Farina. On these 11 tracks her arrangements are kept simple and powder dry, typically featuring only her 12string guitar and the occasional flourish of organ, ukelele, or flute as accompaniment. With this spare instrumentation providing an understated backdrop, Nadler sounds increasingly relaxed and confident throughout the album, and each performance sparkles with haunting, rainswept emotion. Tracks like \"The Little Famous Song\" and \"Horses and Their Kin\", are further distinguished by mesmerizing wordless passages where it almost sounds as though she's attempting to use her voice to approximate the lonesome shimmer of a singing saw. The significance of the character Mayflower May to these songs is unclear. Nadler has previously described May who also made a couple appearances in the lyrics of Ballads of Living and Dying as a lonely old woman of faded beauty. And though May is never mentioned by name on any of these songs, perhaps one is to assume that nostalgialaden, firstperson accounts like the opening \"Under an Old Umbrella\" or the rapturous \"Calico\" are intended to feature May as narrator. Also a talented visual artist, Nadler naturally fills her lyrics with color, and these songs abound with azure skies, turquoise eyes, and (especially) ruby red blood. On tracks like \"Yellow Lights\" and \"Mr. John Lee (Velveteen Rose)\" Nadler fearlessly enters traditional murder ballad territory, exquisitely depicting a world where love is forever shadowed by loss. Curiously, for the dramatic \"Lily, Henry, and the Willow Trees\" the album's lyric sheet includes a final, particularly gory verse that leaves little doubt as to the fate of poor Lily. Perhaps finding these lines out of keeping with her music's otherwise deft, subtle touch, Nadler leaves them unsung, one of the few instances on this enthralling album where she pulls any punches whatsoever. "}