{"label":" BBE","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5840/homepage_large.4cdcd888.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Nicolay","title":"City Lights Volume 1.5","text":" You can get away with murder just by calling it \"uninteresting.\" See: The omnibus of crit on instrumental hiphop. Pitchfork's own Jess Harvell laid it down, though. While conceding no other genre has \"forced us to sit through more unreconstituted dreck than rapless rap,\" he gives credit where it's due (in this case to Dabrye's Instrmntl): \"The one good thing about wallpaper is that it's just thereÉignorability is part of the deal.\" So the review writes itself. But, interested in what the parsing of an artistic process can reveal, I try to be optimistic. City Lights Volume 1.5 puts us behind the boards of Dutch producer Nicolay, who helmed last year's most fortuitous hookup that unbearably sensuous Foreign Exchange record. An interesting spot, 'cause Connected miraculously eschewed the desert island its emcee, Little Brother's Phonte, steered it straight for: blundering backpack innocuousness. Was it an illogical, disproportionate synergy, or were Nicolay's watercolorlight compositions that good? Does voxstripped City Lights reveal the elusive, indwelling spirit of a talented producer's beats? Results are inconclusive. For one, Nic's beats are weaker, which confounds the experiment. This set offers nothing as luminous as the french horngilt \"Let's Move\" or \"Be Alright\"'s blushhued synths. But take care not to give the purplesand beatmaking shores of Foreign Exchange's intercontinental entente too much credit. For all Phonte's unmoving prattle on Connected, his verses did provide a crucial texture. The album's single hollerable refrain was a bated \"Let's Move\"; otherwise, voice was cornstarch, a cookedin thickener. Lacking that unifier, City Lights feels incomplete yes, even for rapless rap. And thinness is the genre's death knell; it stifles listeners looking for an immersive opiate spell. Sameyness that doesn't even hold up as drapery? Sounds like \"meh\" personified. Nic's a savvy dude, howevs. He counterbalances our ears' inclination to drift with some jarringly offset kicks. Nothing too bold, mind you, lest it ruffle his fineknit haberdashery. But \"Intro\" (which incidentally sports tactful backgrounded voices) sways on a rushed snare feel, flamming the simple changes. Details like that are missed on the boringly syncopated \"Fantastic\" and the hopelessly listless \"Indian Summer\". Throughout the latter, undulating vibes await their cup of coffee, but the skipper benches his top prospects, losing with groovin' hand percussion and fusty flutes. It'd be interesting if City Lights threw us a bone a vocal track, just one! for comparison's sake. Many songs concede noncommittal spoken word outros, but their formulaic placement (always as a predictable, faded segue into the next track) is fruitless. Monotony is expected, risqué nice but not required; this thing's just too blearyeyed to sustain itself, much less our generous halfattention. "}