{"label":" Dim Mak","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5841/homepage_large.f453883d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Neon Blonde","title":"Chandeliers in the Savannah","text":" Neon Blonde is a Blood Brothers side project comprised of vocalist Johnny Whitney and drummer Mark Gajadahr, and it's worth cutting to the chase in regards to the similarities between the two: If your main beef with Blood Brothers is Whitney's catsfuckinginanalley vocal style, Neon Blonde might not be your thing. His vocals are flamboyant, manic, and completely overthetop on Chandeliers in the Savannah, Neon Blonde's first full length. The main difference between Blood Brothers and Neon Blonde, however, is that instead of the searing, angstfueled punk rock, this disc hands over track after track of eclectic electrotrash and danceable noise rock. The band excels at combining strippeddown electric beats and synths with more organic elements, such as piano, acoustic guitar, and saxophone. Many of the album's stronger tracks feature the piano as the prominent instrument, including \"Chandeliers and Vines\", an almost tender ballad if not for the 20second wallofnoise freakout in the middle. On the other hand, jagged guitar lines and simple programmed beats assault the listener elsewhere on the disc, with Whitney channeling Brainiac's Timmy Taylor in fullon spazzcore mode. It's that sort of tracktotrack variety that keeps Chandeliers in the Savannah interesting. While \"Black Cactus Killers\", \"Princess Skullface Sings\", and \"Dead Mellotron\" rattle with heart attack inducing rock, \"Crystal Beaches Never Turned Me On\" and \"The Future Is a Mesh Stallion\" are as dance as they are punk. The band touches on a bit of everything, from glam to postpunk to lounge, and slams it all together like they're using some sort warped Cronenberg creation made from the spare parts of old Casio keyboards. Chandeliers in the Savannah is dark, mysterious, and challenging, but ultimately rewarding. It never feels contrived, never odd for the sake of being odd. And although there's definitely a sense of improvisation and freewheeling here, the band is precise, tight when it's necessary, and never excessively sloppy.  Whitney's voice fits perfectly with this style. Whereas in his primetime gig, his voice is jarring, at times almost gimmicky, here it's just one more layer in an already flavorrich pie. On \"Headlines\", released as a single earlier this year, he goes from highpitched trilling to scratchy and strained with ease, all while the repetitive drum beat and driving piano drone on behind him. \"Love Hounds\" features rapidfire, almost spoken verses over guitar caterwauling, and then slides into the disc's catchiest chorus. Actually, that's another thing working in Neon Blonde's favor; they're hardly afraid of a good hook. Chaos and melody tango throughout the disc, dipping and spinning, and never leading the other where you'd expect.  "}