{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5847/homepage_large.797ce840.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"O-Type","title":"Lugubrious","text":" In the beginning, there was noise. No one could really agree where it came from, but everyone was certain it had been through a whole bunch of effects units by the time it got here. Noise: first as a tidal wave, then in short spurts with little bits of silence in between. Next came the drums: kind of meditative, and a little spare. And then, the guitar: a bit jagged, sort of highpitched. Truth be told, it's hard to describe what any of it sounds like because it's all sort of hard to hear. This is the first thing I noticed about OType's Lugubrious all of the sounds tend to just bleed into one another, with everything sounding distant, murky and more than a bit flat. There's a blanket of noise, stacked with loosely structured guitar improvisation, gong crashes, drums that go from gropinginthedark to rhythmic then back again, and occasional electronic weirdness. Rarely does a single sound stand out long enough to take command of the others, to lead them towards something, anything. In other words, it's generic output from your standard improvised avantrock band. You know the type: with the rotating door membership, the sporadic schedule of jams, and a wallofsound output that's clearly aided by the musicenhancing abilities of hallucinogenic drugs. To be honest, Lugubrious reminds me quite a bit like recordings I've made with friends long, generally unstructured, generally mediocre, but not without their moments. It's the sort of thing that's eminently enjoyable to those involved in the production, but generally rates a shrug on anyone else's entertainment scale. Still, I'm not about to put the hardcore smackdown or Lugubrious. While its long drones don't really go anywhere, and the electronic meanderings which emerge from the murk now and again don't particualrly stand out, it's really not terrible stuff. And like, any jam, there are those moments which undeniably work; like the interaction between the two drummers, about halfway through \"Hermit,\" where building cymbal fills and a tightly kept beat emerge from the ambient swamp, only to be swallowed back up in the end. Or the rhythmic electronic crackles that bookshelf the synthsplusdrone track called \"Clearing.\" I was fully prepared to go easy on OType, to call them a vaguely interesting, if not terribly original quartet of improvisers and ther call it a day. And then it suddenly occurred to me where I knew the names on the cover from. Bruce Anderson, Dale Sophiea, Marc Weinstein, Dave Mahoney? All four of these guys are members of MX80, one of the first nonResidents related groups to be signed to Ralph Records in the late 70's (we're talking the same graduating class as Renaldo and the Loaf, Yello and Tuxedomoon here). I can't claim to have heard much of their recent work, but I do know that ir their heyday MX80 was an amazing bunch of musicians, as innovative as they came, always evolving, generally refusing to settle down with a signature sound. But no matter how weird they got, oldschool MX80 always had a certain logic to its abstractions, a reassuring sense that they were taking you somewhere. Which is precisely what OType's Lugubrious is missing. Contrary to some beliefs, \"ambient\" is not synonymous with \"aimless.\" Lugubrious spends far too much time layering meaningless guitar noodling over a backdrop of thick noise and not nearly enough time giving the listener a reason to keep at it. Elsewhere, the group overcompensates: \"Escape\" pastes a Latin handdrum and panting sample seemingly ripped from Señor Coconut's cover of \"Tour De France\" over guitar feedback and live drumming. But the timbres fail to mesh, and the prerecorded beats actually seem to trip up the live percussion, resulting in a messy pastiche of sounds that were never intended to go together in the first place. These are simple mistakes, the kind countless bands make daily. And frankly, I can't summon up an intense hatred toward musicians who really are trying their best. Unfortunately, Lugubrious was made by musicians with a long career that's yielded plenty of work that's head and shoulders above this. Certainly, there's plenty to be said for allout selfserving improvisation for making music simply for making music's sake. I have no doubt that the recording sessions which spawned Lugubrious were fun and worthwhile for the musicians involved. But fun and worthwhile for the musicians doesn't always translate as fun and worthwhile for the listener. Put quickly and simply: your time and money would be well spent exploring MX80's fine back catalog. You'll probably find it wasted if you spend it here. "}