{"label":" A&M","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5860/homepage_large.46b13b50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Phil Ochs","title":"The Best of Phil Ochs: 20th Century Masters","text":" \"You're not a folk singer,\" Bob Dylan accused Phil Ochs, \"you're a journalist.\" He echoed the most consistent criticism of the late Phil Ochs, who made his name with topical folk songs. Ochs churned out political lyrics, taking ideas from the news and from firsthand experience with the turmoil of the 1960s: a coal miners' strike in Kentucky, the fight for civil rights in Mississippi, and antiwar rallies, some of which he helped organize. His sharp lyrics and refusal to compromise combined with an easy humor and winning personality to make him one of the great protest singers. But Ochs was also ambitious. He'd watched his peers cross over to stardom: Peter, Paul and Mary, Joan Baez, and his friend from Greenwich Village, Dylan. By the midsixties, Ochs was afraid he'd be left behind. This new \"best of\" collection gathers twelve songs from Ochs' last four studio albums. He'd switched labels, from Elektra to A&M;, and began to write complicated pop songs that moved away from the news. But he still didn't hit it big, and as he stagnated professionally, Nixon's election and the continuing Vietnam War wore him down. The frustration and depression that permeate these songs make this a grim record of the end of his career.The Best of Phil Ochs: 20th Century Masters begins with over half of the songs from Ochs' 1967 masterpiece, Pleasures of the Harbor. Ochs had been listening to the Beach Boys' Pet Sounds and the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's, and was aiming for something just as big. Ditching strict topical songs, he explored the state of the nation in lyrics about cocktail parties, elderly flower ladies, and sailors back from sea. He left his guitar behind and brought in one of Liza Minnelli's arrangers, Ian FreebairnSmith, to write orchestration.Pleasures of the Harbor actually sounds conservative for its time. Ochs still wrote lyrics like a journalist: his florid descriptions still took in detailed scenes and translated them to song. The music borrowed oldfashioned styles for example, the swelling strings on \"Pleasures of the Harbor,\" the neoclassical \"Flower Lady,\" and the ragtime piano on \"Outside of a Small Circle of Friends.\" But Pleasures of the Harbor was a masterful pop album. Ochs' voice is limited with his narrow range and slight twang, he was no Tony Bennett but it's stark against the baroque arrangements, and the sincerity makes songs like \"Flower Lady\" honestly beautiful. \"Cross My Heart\" starts as a dainty pop song, but Ochs' words make it compelling the despair and hopelessness of the verses, and the conviction with which he turns it around in the chorus. \"Outside of a Small Circle of Friends,\" a satire of liberal apathy and laziness set to a ragtime tune, surpasses even \"Draft Dodger Rag\" as Ochs' most scathingly humorous song. On the other hand, \"The Crucifixion\" was inspired by the assassination of John F. Kennedy, and it asks what drives society to kill its best and youngest leaders. It's the pinnacle of Ochs' songwriting, though its music is a bit awkward: Ochs hired experimental musician Joseph Byrd to arrange it with disturbing strings and bizarre electronic sounds, with mixed results. Many people eventually including Ochs himself regretted the weird mess that Byrd made of the arrangement, but it's strangely appropriate to the theme: when I first listened to this years ago, it was the scariest thing I'd ever heard.Pleasures of the Harbor proved the breadth of Ochs' talent, but it didn't help him commercially. It outsold his earlier albums but only reached #168 on the Billboard charts. Unfortunately, this was Ochs' creative and commercial peak. On his next three albums, he adjusted the formula by stripping down the instrumentation and bringing back explicit political lyrics. He never found a combination that worked commercially, and his frustration with everything from his career to the political scene creeps into the rest of these songs. The lyrics of \"Tape from California\" mix political statements and surreal imagery, and the song features a contemporary band with electric piano and drums. Ochs wrote \"The War Is Over\" for a rally that he helped organize; its marching band backdrop is interesting, but the song isn't as strong without its context. \"William Butler Yeats Visits Lincoln Park and Escapes Unscathed,\" on the other hand, hauntingly reflects Ochs' experience at the '68 Chicago convention. It appeared, along with the mournful \"Rehearsals for Retirement,\" on an album whose cover bore a fictional tombstone: \"Phil Ochs ... Died Chicago, Illinois 1968.\" \"Chords of Fame\" and \"No More Songs\" come from Ochs' last studio record, the humorously titled Phil Ochs' Greatest Hits, produced by Van Dyke Parks. The songs tried a country/western sound as a last ditch plea for popularity. This collection ends with an upbeat live version of his signature tune, \"I Ain't Marchin' Anymore\" but in reality, Ochs' career was over. Writer's block, heavy drinking, and mental illness ended his songwriting and drove him to take his own life in 1976, at age 35. In his biography of Ochs, Michael Schumaker recounts how he worried that his songs would be forgotten. He has yet to be seriously \"rediscovered,\" and this generically titled collection probably won't change that (though it is a good and affordable starting point for new fans). As Andy Whitaker said of him, \"His persona was the work of art.\" No matter how well the music stands on its own, it works better with an understanding of the time and of the man which can be said of our other great journalists, activists, and folk singers. Like them, Phil Ochs gives us our history. "}