{"label":" Music Mine","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5868/homepage_large.aca3a9d6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Oe","title":"Here and You","text":" In the car, tuning to 100.3, KWLD: \"Get your Wild on!\" First up, it's Avril Lavigne. Next. A crappy power ballad, the band ripping off both Whitesnake and Pearl Jam. No. Nelly's \"Hot in Herre.\" Now that's what I'm talkin' about! Then that JLo song about girlfriends and boyfriends. Great track, but the singing's not so hot. After which comes four songs in a row that suck. The trouble with pop radio is that if you don't like the tunes, you're doomed. At home, I can put on whatever I want. Wallow in my own insular freakishness. First up, it's some neat Japanese sinewave stuff. Well, it's sort of neat, but 25 minutes in, I need a breather. How about some classic Aphex? Sure, this is pretty good, but not exactly the kind of thing that's gonna shake my house down. Hmm, maybe I need something that shakes my house down. I'll put on some... Can? No. What about Mouse on Mars? Not really. There's always Abba. Come on, dude. There has to be something intelligent here I can blast. Why can't someone just make a decent fusion of pop and IDM? The answer's a little complicated. Thing is, KWLD works when there's a good track, and if so, I'm usually singing along, bouncing in the car. I figure this is because it's got a cool beat, cool production, cool vocal or all three, which makes it an instant classic. And if I'm writing about it later, I'm even going deeper. But that's a big 'if'. I doubt Universal Records cares what I think about during Nelly's tune as long as I'm buying the album (which I didn't radio free everything, bigwigs). And in fairness to Nelly, I actually do go deeper than just bouncing in the car when his song comes on (ever like to listen to see if you can pick out what instruments are doing what in songs? Do you want to be my music buddy?), but if I and 100,000 of my closest friends don't run out and purchase the album, KWild's gonna take it off the air fast. And I don't want that. I want a party. IDM and experimental electronic is different. The feeling here is more of an extended consideration, even for the most 'entertaining' stuff in the family. We all know and love Selected Ambient Works 8592, but think back and see if your record is completely clear of all chinscratching and/or getting high and talking about how \"infinitely spacious, yet mathematically efficient, yet blissfully... oh, what's the word\" it is. And then consider the realms of analysis breached upon each playing of records by Oval, Autechre or anything featuring Jim O'Rourke (and really, should we be dissecting Stereolab records?). Whether there really is a unifying characteristic among all of the music classified as IDM has been debated. And I'm not sure, but I can't think of any relatively popular music that so consistently receives props of the intellectual nature (and nonprops of the obsessively analytical persuasion). From the sound of Here and You, Tatsuya Oe (a.k.a. Captain Funk, a.k.a. just Oe) means to bridge the gap between KWLD and Warp. Oe burst upon the Japanese techno scene in the late 90s, as Captain Funk, with his record Bustin' Loose (step back now would you have bought a record by Captain Funk called Bustin' Loose?). Unfortunate names and titles aside, it was fairly popular and Oe still has a pretty good rep as a DJ. But since then, he's gradually moved outside the pure electronica realm into poppier territory. His previous release, Songs of the Siren, emphasized traditional song structures while maintaining the beat tactics and headcocking production so common in dance music. Here and You follows his blueprint. Now, the question remains: why can't anyone make a good fusion of pop and IDM? Oe shows me why it's not nearly as simple as it might seem. \"The Glow\" opens with a panned acoustic guitar and lead vocodervocal (and as a sidenote to all artists not named Daft Punk, quit using this. And to Daft Punk, think about not using this next time). When the beat comes in over the newly harmonized vocal, the mood immediately goes from minimalist futurepop to Chemical Brothersstyle big beat. Pretty soon, multiple new guitar lines enter, and Oe introduces any number of tricky polyrhythmic ornaments. It's a neat little piece, even if the beats are a tad on the 1997 side. Similarly, \"Rambler and Canter\" has a very hummable melody line (courtesy of Oe's whistling), and some light polyrhythm borrowed from the first tune (think Philip Glass scoring an Evian ad). It's a nice tune, and the extended tictack bridge into \"Time Has Told Me\" is almost arthouse cool enough for Mille Plateaux.Here and You works least when it seems to sacrifice those neat production tricks for the hummable melodies. \"Unexamined Sam\" brings back the vocoder way too soon, and unfortunately doesn't feature a beat big enough to hide the thin gag. The simple melody, really nothing more than the electronically harmonized vocalizations of Oe and his machinery, isn't enough to carry the limp beat. So the song falls short of something you would dance to, or with which you might sing along. Against all odds, Oe brings back the speakandspell vocoder vocals for \"Dismissed.\" The tune itself seems like homage to Dots and Loopsstyled spacepop, though someone should tell Oe that Laetitia Sadier doesn't use a vocoder that's just how she sings. Parts of this record should be left open for further research. First, there is the electrodrone (DaftGaze?) of \"Hollow Stone.\" The opening wall of guitardriven feedback and meandering melody exist in perfect symbiosis, and the peaceful exit music of \"Sleep Will Come\" is just minimal enough to qualify as futuristic, while still retaining loungey romanticism. Oe has fashioned an album full of melodies (however obscured by production they may be), yet with precious little to back them up. The production is good (and, important for bringing out those melodies, never gets overly complicated), but there's something missing in the mix that would turn Here and You into a viscerally engaging record. As it stands, the jury is still out on whether you can really fuse pop and new electronic music. "}