{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5888/homepage_large.be39fafc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Old Time Relijun","title":"Varieties of Religious Experience","text":" Old Time Relijun's heatpoisoned hillbilly calisthenics are an intriguingly crackedout, shaggytail reconstruction of Captain Beefheart except that this band's version of the legendary acidsoaked California cornball would be decked out in a Black Candy tshirt and smoking up on the leas of Olympia's Evergreen College. But to call these guys a mere knockoff would be plainly inaccurate: Old Time Relijun's longtime frontman Arrington de Dionyso (billed apart from the rest of the band here, for reasons which will become clear later) also shares some of the more rambling compositional leanings of sometime Relijun drummer Phil Elvrum's Microphones project, albeit stripped of its natureboy preciousness and less successful in tossing disparate sunspots together into one unified, fuzzedout menagerie. Of course, Dionyso seems more interested in investigating animal languages, tongues of fire, and Walt Whitman hoboism than imparting any narrative epiphany to the listener. And despite his own purposeful eccentricities, he admirably transcribes his corncob dreams as though they're concrete maps to opaque surfaces; and not even half as pretentious as he could be, he seamlessly works Where the Wild Things Are into the refrains of his manifesto, A Kabbalist Exegesis of Old Time Relijun. Sporting a JohntheBaptistcumAbrahamLincoln beard and sounding at times like Yoko Ono conjoining with Tom Waits and Jad Fair to painstakingly rewrite the Jesus Lizard back catalog as countrified scrawl, Dionyso launches from Tiny Tim whimpers to highpitched inhuman squeals, throaty bullfrog scat, and dewy mountaintop bellows in a matter of seconds. His gusto is impressive, but oft times lacking a clearsighted cosmology for his discursive, shambling worldview his consistently twisted enunciations lose power, previously novel cadences blend into overdone sameness, and his rickety rollercoaster backing band becomes a predictable merrygoround.Varieties of Religious Experience, a collection of twentyone unreleased sermons or unheard alternate versions of previously released material, is the band's first fulllength since 2001's more successfully honed Witchcraft Rebellion. Twenty minutes longer than its predecessor, this longwinded retrospective contains a multitude of versions of certain bits of songs, often moving from Dionyso's oneman fourtrack work to the more fleshedout approach of he and his rotating crew of backup players. These are interesting as studies in composition, but the repetition slows the passion down, stalling the bombast into a tired holding pattern of indulgently predicated aftertastes. Admittedly, though, one of the strongest tracks is one of these repeats. The first of two versions of \"Telephone Call\" showcases Prince's \"Kiss\" blended with a serving of Doolittleera Black Francisstyle preachin' man vocalizations: Imagine \"Wave of Mutilation\" as a soulful comeon, broken into staccato, and physically, freakishly dismembered. Another keeper, the organdriven \"Black Cat\" introduces a nice shift to the standard foamingatthemouth approach. Reminiscent of the Bad Livers or a jivetalking Daniel Johnston, it blends spoken gibberish, Onoesque machine gun stutters, and a faintly audible sermon treading beneath increasingly vocal organ sustain into a finely catchy pop excursion. There's much to like about Old Time Relijun, and Dionyso's previous dreamquests have yielded a robust stab at bustedplank outsider hiss, but on this unfocused retrospective, the randomly placed stylistic tweaks and vaguely useful repetitions can't raise the hue and cry beyond a mishmash of Trout Mask Replica envy. At the end of the spaz attack, it's the smartly plotted cohesion of Dionyso's proper recordings that creates a forwardmoving juggernaut; here, amid the schizophrenic haberdashery, the autistic Hugo Ball schtick runs thin too soon. "}