{"label":" Tract","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5897/homepage_large.06cb5fa4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"I Am a Cold Rock. I Am Dull Grass: A Tribute to the Music of Will Oldham","text":" In early 2004, Will Oldham released a tribute album to himself, the sprawling and divisive Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy Sings Greatest Palace Music. Oldham's history of shapeshifting (his aliases to date include Palace, Palace Music, Palace Songs, Palace Brothers, Will Oldham, Bonnie \"Prince\" Billy, and the simplified Bonny Billy) has always encouraged a certain amount of stylistic diversity, allowing him the freedom to craft new homes for his thin, defeated yelps and quasiabsurdist prose. Sometimes, his goods are framed in fullband noise (Palace Music's Viva Last Blues); other times, they're spare and minimal (Palace Brothers' spectacular Days in the Wake). Still, Greatest Palace Music saw Oldham's tendency towards reinvention circle in on itself, the ultimate expression of metareflection: Oldham performing his older material under the guise of his contemporary alterego, with a crowd of Nashville session musicians adding sickly sax solos and slide guitar. Just months later, Tract Records has released a slightly more conventional tribute record: I Am a Cold Rock. I Am a Dull Grass. features covers of classic Oldham cuts voiced by prominent indie artists (Iron & Wine, Calexico, Pinetop Seven, Sorry About Dresden, Scout Niblett, and Adrian Crowley appear) and a slew of lesserknown Oldham admirers who were handpicked from the label's open call for submissions. And since most of this twodisc collection's material playfully imitates Oldham's trademark spareandacoustic style, it seems likely to introduce fans of the Oldham aesthetic to some impressive new voices, including Jeffrey Luck Lucas and Diana Darby. Of course, it's the more recognizable names that triumph. Calexico's take on Days in the Wake's \"I Send My Love to You\" is a stunning reanimation. Its lilting pedal steel, violin, light percussion, and boy/girl harmonies puff up Oldham's vocalsandguitar lament, adding heft and gently smoothing over all of Oldham's scaly admissions a cool hand brushing bits of hair from a sticky brow. Fundamentally, Calexico's approach is not really so different from what Oldham himself attempted on Greatest Palace Music: harsh, abrasive intensity traded for a soft, layered beauty. Iron & Wine's cover of \"We All, Us Three, Will Ride\" builds on the Viva Last Blues cut with gently shaken handheld percussion, and Sam Beam's hushed, melodic vocals smoothing out Oldham's Appalachian crackle. In true Oldham spirit, however, the safest contributions to I Am a Cold Rock are also the greatest missteps Pale Horse and Rider's studied \"Work Hard/Play Hard\" follows the Palace version too closely, ultimately missing the dirtroad recklessness that made the original so jarring and addictive. Likewise, Rivulets' melancholy strumming gives \"You Will Miss Me When I Burn\" a markedly suburban feel, with vocalist Nathan Amundson's plaintive perfect pitch evoking none of the stewing emotion of the Days in the Wake original. The unexpected cohesiveness of I Am a Cold Rock which, however inadvertently, strips away all accoutrements, lineup changes, and other superficial fixes reveals Oldham as a surprisingly consistent songwriter, despite all his coy tricks and outfitchanges. In the past, Oldham's skills have always been at least partially obscured by the tenuousness of his vocals, the sparseness of his arrangements, and the fullwank sprawl of his bandmates. I Am a Cold Rock, like Greatest Palace Music, isolates and highlights Oldhamasscribe, dragging his compositions into new, unbroken light. "}