{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5918/homepage_large.ab68a993.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Oneida","title":"Secret Wars","text":" One of the greatest benefits of tracking Oneida's careertodate has been the relentless refinement of the 60sinfluenced psych juggernaut they got rolling into a mesmerizing dronerock hybrid seven years ago; every album has demonstrated constant development toward their uniquely iterative rock dynamic. No matter what the current musical climate, Oneida have never deviated from their unique sense of manifest destiny. The goal is outwardly simple; for seven years these Brooklyn boys have been striving for nothing more than the single Perfect Riff, the fundamentally isolated element around which all songs can be built. The ancient Greeks knew it in legend; medieval astronomers predicted its eventual return through the movement of planets, but none ever witnessed the Return itself. The Hippies may have come the closest, dropping acid and swallowing Quaaludes in the hopes of just glimpsing it; some found inspiration in their quest and paved the way for others to follow, but the One True Riff was still never found. But perhaps not for much longer: Oneida know things that mere mortals do not, and they can see things no one else can see; time was, they were prone to acid flashback meltdowns and psych jams like their forefathers, but recently, Oneida have begun to surpass mere psychedelia into the realm of pure hypnosis. Each One Teach One devoted an entire disc to the exploration of the phenomenon. It was music as anesthetic, pummeling listeners with cascading sheets of sounds, piling repetition atop repetition until the mounting pressure revealed a diamond, the One True Riff. Possession and knowledge are separate things, though, and the path to mastery did not come quickly enough to save that album from misuse and abuse of the newfound power. Secret Wars is the first step toward the combination of Oneida's monolithic psychrock and the numbing riff iteration they've spent so long deriving. The foundation of Secret Wars is repetition on a massive scale; songs are built atop the constant cycling of hyperminimal progressions, fairly bludgeoning the listener into a state of docility with as minimal an approach as possible. Sometimes Fat Bobby provides the key hook on the organ, other times Hanoi Jane's bass locks the groove, but the end results are almost always uniform: spiraling, acidwashed descents into cultivated monotony based on little more than bar or two stacked again and again. For the first time, though, they've figured out how to tweak the patterns, modify them without breaking them, and seamlessly mesh these forays into drone with the psychrock in which they've always been so proficient. \"$50 Tea\" may be the most perfect example; the shrieking organgrind from Hell begins the cycle, but slowly gives way to pounding bass and guitar underneath the trancelike vocals, and each instrument comes to the fore to carry the drone before the song's end. \"The Winter Shaker\" and \"Changes in the City\" play like a continuation of \"Sheets of Easter\", full of plodding riffs like a shot of novocaine to the frontal lobe, but this time with dirgelike vocals to match, seeing the album to its natural conclusion in turn. Again, the results are startlingly effective, taking hold at some primal, subconscious level and holding on until the end, but by being the most overwrought of the bunch, they highlight a few of Oneida's remaining faults: when reduced to just a storm of looping noise, the sonic concussion they create is easier to shake off, and more importantly, they're hampered by some notinsignificant production issues. For all of their bombast, the mix on Secret Wars is totally flat; vocals are strained, and the waves of sound aren't as immediately imposing as they ought to be. To be truly effective, Oneida needs to tower over the listener, and in that respect, they still fall short. Nevertheless, Secret Wars is the first really unified effort Oneida has been able to construct, finally striking the perfect balance between the classic slabs of psych you grew up on and newschool mindcontrol. They still have some studio issues to work out, but those are only a matter of time, so savor your remaining independent thought while you can; by next album it may be too late. "}