{"label":" Silber","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/5/homepage_large.d615c114.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Aarktica","title":"Pure Tone Audiometry","text":" Can there be any purpose behind a master's degree in the psychology of music other than inevitably attempting to rule the minds of men through the manipulative powers of sound? I submit that there can not; the job prospects from a degree like that are, like, what? Music therapist? I don't think so. The only career I can imagine it successfully leading to is Supervillian. It doesn't take a superhuman intellect to see through the aims of Jon DeRosa's education he's the archmastermind behind the warm, homey folk of Pale Horse and Rider, and has guested on several other records, including Debridement, a recent Chairkickers release by Rivulets. But none of his various projects are more dangerous, more insidious, than the icy calm of Aarktica's dreamy ambiance. In fact, his nefarious desire to lull listeners into a pliant, peaceful daydream (and then rob them, no doubt or worse!) could easily have succeeded with last year's Or You Could Just Go Through Your Whole Life and Be Happy Anyway if it weren't for the heroic actions of Pitchfo... hey, wait. That got a really positive review... uuuhhhh.... now... that... I think about it, Pure Tone Audiometry is really... pretty... oh, god, no... if I don't come back, tell Kathleen Hanna... I... love... her... Wow... where was I? I always get distracted by the lush, diffuse tones at the conclusion of \"Out to Sea\". The track opens Pure Tone Audiometry with a delicate, Magnetic Fieldsish male/female vocal dynamic between DeRosa and Lorraine Lelis, as they sweetly harmonize over the romantic notions of being lost at sea and never again seeing home. Before long, the voices become lost in the hazy ambiance completely, and the experimental pop is vaporized; only Lelis' seraphic call remains to try and navigate the listener through the droning fog. Eventually, even the music itself vanishes. DeRosa's arrangements are intensely careful and subdued, and never once does he allow his deliberately constructed tranquility to be disturbed. The few real swells of emotion are thrilling, but momentary; such an austere, clinical tone is produced that it sometimes becomes stultifying, although I'm not sure emotive response is the aim here. Aarktica is cold, pure, and almost inescapably tranquil. \"Snowstorm Ruins Birthday\" revisits the vapor that lingers from \"Out to Sea\". There was music here, but now only traces remain, surrounding the listener in a wintry mist of component sounds, atomic gray noise, a touching (but still distant) pop melody dissolved into its basic elements. Slowly, song structures reform; DeRosa's wispy vocals return alongside Lelis' stunning accompaniment, triumphantly welling up from miles beneath the faintly reverberating electric and simple acoustic plucking in \"Ocean\"'s beautiful climax. \"Big Year\" explores the darker regions of Aarktica's ethereal shoegazing like a slightly cheerier version of Projektbased ambient artists Lycia; the listener is inexorably pulled deeper into the track's echoing maze of acoustics, subtly ominous drones, and trembling strings. Until... total silence? No, wait. Not total. DeRosa slipped up; \"Water Wakes Dead Cells\" is a fiveminute foray into ultraminimalist drone, just a rhythmic pulse wrapped in a barely audible hum, before eventually bowing out completely. The sheer vacancy of what amounts to little more than empty space is pretty unnecessary, and though it's anything but jarring, it still stands out as a glaring hole in an otherwise pristine calm. As a breather before \"Williamsburg Counterpoint\", Pure Tone Audiometry's twelveminute centerpiece, \"Water Wakes Dead Cells\" is briefly very effective. By the halfway point, though, the album's hypnotic spell has been broken it served as an anticlimactic pause, but after a few minutes, it just seems like a good time to get a drink, to make my escape. Ah, who am I kidding? Aarktica's attempt to pacify and control his audience into a narcotized lull is good but not perfect. Of course, it's too late for me, but at least you've been warned. Jon DeRosa is a madman! He wants to control the world with his beautiful, antiseptic melodies! He's nearly succeeded yet again! Tell the world before it's too late! "}