{"label":" Polystar / Shock City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5929/homepage_large.d1da3862.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"OOIOO","title":"Shock City Shockers 2","text":" On your mark, get set. Akabushi, AOA, Audio Sports, Children Coup d'Etat, Concrete Octopus, Dendoba, Destroy 2, DMV, Dowser, the Dramatics, Elvis Dust, Flare, Free Kitten, the Geisha Girls, Gong Derby, Goonies, Grind Orchestra, Guillotine Kyodai, Guitoo, Dekoboko Hajime/Yamantaka Eye, Hanadensha, the Hanatarash, the Hattifatteners, Hijokaiden, Live Under the Sky, MC Hellshit & DJ Carhouse, Minga & Eye, Mystic Fugu Orchestra, Naked City, Nankai Hawkwind, Nimrod, Noise Ramones, Novo Tono, Oh!Moro Video Series, Shinro Ohtake + Eye, Omoide Hatoba, solo Yoshimi PWe, Rashinban, Rise from the Dead, Roughage, Rovo, RuinsHatoba, Alice Sailor, S.O.B.Kaidan, Sound Hero, Standing Earth & Touching Air, Sun Kich, Tent, Three Day Stubble, Torture Garden, Tribal Circus, U.F.O. or Die, Universal Errors, the Vickly & the Ohdorockanize, Woods, XOX, solo Yamamoto Seiichi, solo Yamatsuka Eye, Yellowhouse, ZRock Hawaii and Karera Musication. Go. Go ahead and try to find all the Boredomsrelated projects. I dare you. While you're at it, why don't you get another job, because most of the superrare releases by these units will run you about $35 a pop. Boredoms Marketing has got the whole supplyanddemand thing down, so why would they ever bother with distribution? But that's overly cynical: as with most impulsively creative musicians, these people just never stop working. Oh yes, there's also OOIOO. The Boredoms connection here is drummer/trumpet player Yoshimi PWe. The Oband is something of a solo project for Yoshimi, as she produces everything and writes most of the music (along with her partners Kyoto, Maki and Yoshiko). They have three albums, and each one sounds progressively similar to recent Boredoms, with plenty of electronic fiddling and spaceage suncrash drum stomp but, with the major difference being Yoshimi doesn't take Eye's scenic route as a means, via extended warp drive exploration and jungle hunt. OOIOO's journey always ends up closer to pop than Boredoms, with a penchant for new wave chic and boisterous, singsong melodies.Shock City Shockers 2 (on Eye's Shock City imprint) is comprised of remixes of tunes from the band's three previous albums, and one new tune, \"Open Your Eyes You Can Fly\" (which actually sticks out a little on this release, not featuring the electronic wizardry of the others). The cast assembled to restir the mixtures is itself a mixture of old Bore cohorts and new characters, but there's something that nags me about the release in general. It's not that the music isn't interesting to listen to there are lots of headphonefriendly details, and sonic logic games to play. It's just that I can't help but think that, since OOIOO's albums always seemed at least a step away from greatness, and since they always seemed to be in debt to the recent Boredoms sound rather than an extension of it, injecting them with electric steroids is misleading. For me, most of the music on this album sounds better than the originals. Take that as you will. \"Tenkuteku Tune/Mountain Book\" (two tunes from the 2000 release Gold and Green) is a very nice way to begin the album. We have a sine wave (courtesy of remixer Zak) floating over the top of the speakers, announcing the heady arrival of sunny, ambient flangeguitar and light synth. It's conceptually similar to the last track from Boredoms' Super Ae, and placing such an offhandedly warm track at the beginning is a daring move. How could you follow something so completely at ease? Hmmm. Later on, semihyperactivity rears its head. Another, very different version of \"Mountain Book\" (remixed by Chari Chari) features a kinetic drum loop, somewhat like a techno Indian raga beat, and Yoshimi's echoridden vocals sent to all corners of the mix. \"Asozan\" (from Feather Float) is given the rolling tom treatment by remixer Eye. Beginning with restless marimba, all cartoonish Steve Reich motives and insistent pulse, it moves on to a fairly detached doubletracked Yoshimi vocal, again sent to various points. \"Kinorokujyouressya,\" reworked by frequent Borecollaborator Kiyoshi Izumi, actually gets fairly close to straight techno with a bouncy, breakbeaten rhythm and all the hiccup glitch you could want on the dancefloor. Other tracks are quite restrained: \"Unu\" (Green and Gold), remixed by Woodman, is heavy on the 80s drum machine and delayed tremolo guitar, and is virtually without vocals. However, the beat is downplayed in favor of druggy atmospherics like the various atonal synthlines you can barely hear in the background but which nevertheless give the tune a very tangibly hazy quality. \"Be Sure to Loop\" (Feather Float), remixed by Tatsuki Masuko (of ASLN and Dub Squad fame) begins very similarly to the first tune: all warm, with bells, birds, and typically detached vocals. After several minutes of this, the drums come in, and bingo! It becomes like an outtake from Vision Creation Newsun, with the onechord guitar vamp over pounding Neu drums and the omnipresent electric effects. Someone in this camp should apply for a patent on this sound, because it's going to get ripped off very soon. If pressed to place this album in a canon with other Boredoms' side projects, I'd reference three: firstly, Eye's DJ Pica Pica Pica release, with which Shock City Shockers 2 shares an affinity for offbeat combinations of melody and rhythm (though this record could never rule a party like the Pica); secondly, the first Shock City Shockers, which was a collection of remixes of several bands' music; and thirdly, Boredoms' 1996 release Super Roots 6, with which it shares a command of ambience and the juxtaposition of simplistic structures and melodies with seemingly complex studio techniques. And while OOIOO's remix album is nice, I would recommend those records first. "}