{"label":" Eenie Meenie","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5940/homepage_large.89fa985d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Oranger","title":"New Comes and Goes","text":" After hinting at it their last two albums, the Bay Area's Oranger have finally jettisoned their cumbersome sunny psych bit, one which forcedly suggested geographic loyalty with the same conviction as a twodimensional Captain Planet character representing his/her entire country. Now, Oranger more closely echoes indie acts such as Pavement or Modest Mouse rather than cardboard CA cutouts like Brian Jonestown Massacre or the Warlocks. Forget the dense layers of fuzz and acoustic strumming, these guitars have two settings clean and distorted and if you're lucky you'll get a mellotron in the background. This ain't your stoned older brother's Oranger. If 2003's Shutdown the Sun felt like a sweet slice of straightforward indie pop, New Comes and Goes may be lethal for diabetics and pregnant women. The melodies are Beatlesque only after being filtered through the scrappy likes of early 90s lofi and ennui. Frontman Mike Drake curbs his strungout Anton Newcombe affectations in lieu of Stephen Malkmus slackerdom, halfsinging, halfslurring lyrics like \"outta touch\" and \"whacha holden.\" Opener \"Crooked in the Weird of the Catacombs\" launches the band's revamped sound, bouncing along on spindly guitar riffs and tinny percussion. The proceeding title track demonstrates the ideal effects of the band's minimalist change, tapping nostalgic bits of John Lennon and Roy Orbison before dirty power chords signal an uptodate emo chorus. The band's fauxPixies tracks really take the cake here. \"Haeter\" swaggers all spacelounge, Bossanova style, with cosmic chord changes too energized to simply plop down below the melody. On the flip side, \"Garden Party for the Murder Pride\" flaunts tacky Trompe Le Monde metal riffs juxtaposed with obtusely sunny hooks. While portions of the album recall unpleasant grungeupchuck like Local H or Nada Surf, these guys hit a homer with the \"less is more\" strategy. Not to get all sappy, but mechanically following a band from mediocrity to aboveaverageness reaffirms the belief that bands can significantly improve, and not every musician from San Fran has to pay homage to the Dead. "}