{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5944/homepage_large.8f5d500b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"The Orb","title":"Bicycles & Tricycles","text":" The human mind doesn't quite know what to do with The Orb anymore. Back in the early 90s, I think most of us expected The Orb to reign victorious in all the wars it would ever fight against or amongst electronic music's endless subgenres. Adventures Beyond the Ultraworld and U.F. Orb were, after all, masterpieces suggestive of classic Pink Floyd and Eno. But, as with all great battles (Catholics and Protestants, North and South, Betamax and Sony), the Squares won out. Rather than ushering in a perpetually expanding and pulsating sphere of psychodub vacillations, time gave way to Plaid freeform, Autechrean architecture, and Squarepushing. So, upon first listen, Bicycles & Tricycles seemed instantly seductive with its harrowingly anachronistic synth washes, fouronthefloor dub, quotes from those BBC Fairy Tale Hour shows, and the interstellar mindfreezes. However, on the third or fourth listen, I realized I didn't exactly like the songs as much as I liked the idea of someone making them. My relationship to The Orb is a lot like my relationship to Beyoncé or Willie Nelson. I don't know that I particularly like what they're doing, but I'm glad someone is doing it. The Orb seems to understand this. The first moments of \"From a Distance\" consist of the rooster from \"Little Fluffy Clouds\" struggling to avoid getting buried under distortion and destruction. A voice screams, \"A new morning!\" and proceeds to vitriolically spit out one of the most spellbindingly silly ragga teenpop tunes to ever be so throttled with foghorns. It's a damn effective tactic, as startling as when De La Soul killed themselves or, hell, as Dylan going electric. Of course, it also borders on novelty, turning into one of those things you hear on British pop charts (Fast Food Rockers, anyone?) that makes you wonder, \"How is this place still a country?\" Whether it's actually any good or not, there's nothing else remotely like it on the album which we can be thankful for, because if the music of \"From a Distance\" was sustained for an hour, migraines would be as prevalent as original sin. The following track, \"The Land of Green Ginger\", is traditional Orb, rushing waves and audio excerpts from booksontape. Between tape loops and whittling, the drum machine sounds as if it's been buried in gravel. It's 80s techno to the point of selfdelusion. \"Hell's Kitchen\" and \"Gee Strings\" are stunning Orb epics (basically what you would buy any Orb album for), flaunting vaguely Indian percussion that drips bongwater. If you've ever enjoyed an Orb song, there's no possible way you could be entirely disappointed by this album. It's resolutely affixed to the past, and while it's not nearly as liberal in its portions of psychedelic ambiance as their greatest works, it's at least par with Cydonia. I had a blast listening to it. I'll probably even listen to it after I finish writing this something I can hardly say about a lot of my favorite albums. But even when it's making raves out of paranoia, it feels like The Orb are trapped in a fading genre that gains its adherents through nostalgia rather than innovation. Long and painful deaths have never been this much fun. "}