{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/5958/homepage_large.80d950a7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Jim O'Rourke","title":"I'm Happy, and I'm Singing, and a 1, 2, 3, 4","text":" Despite the ramblings of armchair philosophers and fanatical pseudoluddites, a computer is not a cold, inherently impersonal entity. Unlike more utilitarian electronic items (calculators, microwaves, etc), computers can be endowed by their owners with a sometimes startling degree of personality. Countless hours of work are often put into creating a computer that bears the characteristics of its owner, or at least the characteristics that its owner wants it to possess. And yet, many people still seem to be reluctant to acknowledge that something warm, organic, and truly personal can emerge from the silicon belly of a Powerbook especially when it comes to music. Journalists have been going on for ages about some pieces of wood, molded metal, and a few electromagnets being an extension of the penis. What's so different about the concept of a laptop being an extension of the laptop? No, a computer can't be physically smacked around like a guitar or a set of drums, but its nearly limitless potential for the creation and manipulation of sound makes it a perfect medium for uniquely personal music.I'm Happy, and I'm Singing, and a 1, 2, 3, 4 is a collection of three tracks performed by Jim O'Rourke on his laptop computer in New York, Osaka, and Tokyo. Given the nature of these performances, the record inhabits that squishy gray area somewhere between a composition and an improvisation. Since this is the first time these songs have been released, it's impossible to know how much of the album is premeditated. The results of O'Rourke's halfimprovisations are absolutely stunning. I'm Happy, and I'm Singing, and a 1, 2, 3, 4 is comprised of sounds too intricate and complex to be the product of spontaneous experimentation. But unlike many albums consisting of such sounds, this album moves at the speed of human thought, developing in a subtle, methodical, yet never cold and technical manner. Changes happen slowly enough that you can fully take in every nuance, yet nothing ever seems obvious. \"I'm Happy\" opens the record with nondescript glitchy sine waves playing a sparse, quiet pattern. That pattern swells to a buzzing mass of sound so dense that it seems to comprise a single melodic entity. Gradually, O'Rourke manipulates this one central sonic pillar, adding sounds that vary slightly in melody and timbre. And somehow, he manages to keep \"I'm Happy\" dense enough to be completely enveloping, while still open enough to be noticeably transformed by every one of its individual voices. About halfway through the track, a series of subtle melodic changes and the addition of a humming bass drone drastically alter the character of the song, though the elements comprising remain largely unchanged. Though \"I'm Happy\" fades out with a few moments of dark ambience, the following track, \"And I'm Singing,\" showcases a more playful side of O'Rourke's laptop. Opening with the stuttered sounds of a timer and chime, \"And I'm Singing\" then sees him using looped keyboards and synthesized sounds to create what could best be described as a single fragment of a gorgeous melody frozen in time. Strange, ambiguous percussive sounds create a controlled cacophony, until the song metamorphoses into a minimalistic arrangement of clean and distorted synthesized blips. A single array of melodies is repeated, developing so slowly that it can barely be noticed. It then flows seamlessly into what could be the album's finest moment: a progression of odd, ambiguous sounds backed by distorted sine waves and acoustic guitar. Like its predecessor, \"And I'm Singing\" ends with a brief period of subdued ambience. Whereas \"I'm Happy\" and \" And I'm Singing\" often use a flurry of individual sounds to create the illusion tranquility, \"And a 1, 2, 3, 4\" is much more sparse, allowing the listener to focus more closely on every sound O'Rourke uses. And the sounds themselves are utterly gorgeous subtly manipulated strings that quiver and pulsate in slow, sweeping gestures, constantly arranging themselves into new harmonic patterns. As more voices are added, these patterns become more complex and more regular until the end of the song, at which point O'Rourke gently deconstructs the layers of sound that have been building for over fifteen minutes with the introduction of new, thoroughly engaging sounds that function almost like a screen behind which the song can dismantle itself. Indeed, I'm Happy, and I'm Singing, and a 1, 2, 3, 4, despite its somewhat ridiculous title and its digital origins, is a startlingly personal, affecting album, drawing as much on the fragile melodicism of folk music as the technical manipulation of minimalism. And considering the strength of the bond that can develop between a man and his machine, this record may be O'Rourke's most direct statement to date. "}