{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5963/homepage_large.33a6b5da.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Beth Orton","title":"Daybreaker","text":" The first thing you notice about Daybreaker, Beth Orton's third in a series of progressively bland and unadventurous releases, is the cover's striking similarity to any number of deodorant advertisements. The theme continues on the back cover as the gangly English giantess is shown frolicking in the foamy surf wearing jean shorts and a white tanktop, leg kicked out behind her in a gesture as if to say, \"Finally a pad that suits my lifestyle.\" Inside, things get a little confusing, if not intriguing. The threepanel foldout shows: 1. A fencedin area next to a dock and gazebo, which, like a Jandek cover, initially seems meaningful but leaves you with the lingering suspicion that it's probably just randomness for randomness' sake. 2. A cove in which two boats have beached: a midsize fishing craft and a Greenpeacestyle rubber raft, suggesting the photographer had recently watched The Man with the Golden Gun. And, most perplexing of all: 3. Beth sitting in the abovementioned fishing boat, back turned, apparently breastfeeding an acoustic guitar. All of these photos are shown through a hazy, softfocus glow usually reserved for soap opera flashbacks, Barbara Walters interviews, and Jerry McGuire. Disappointingly though, this album is neither a veiled avantfeminist concept album nor some backhanded commentary on advertising culture and consumerism; it's rather a product of such schemes. And after listening to the album, the artwork, which once was simply perplexing, becomes merely hilarious, if unintentionally so. But let's move past the images and get to the heart of the matter: the music. Well, it's sad, really. An artist who once seemed poised to carve out a brand new style of electroacoustic music (I once saw the painfully reaching term \"folkhop\" used in a review of her previous album, Central Reservation) is here reduced to a mere mannequin upon which can be draped layer upon layer of guest artists. The jewel case sticker, which claims that Daybreaker \"effortlessly cross[es] musical boundaries,\" and is \"richly evocative and lyrically profound,\" seems pathetically hyperbolic with Orton's trademark mellow dreck pouring like chicken soup from the speakers. Do they really believe this, the folks at Astralwerks? Exactly what musical boundaries are being crossed here? Yay, it's got both acoustic guitars and electronics! The same could be said of nearly every 'new country' release rolling off the Nashville assembly line these days. We're far past the point where such things are even novel; it's what you do with it that counts. And here, Beth and her endless brothel of collaborative misfits ain't doing much at all. In fact, the enthusiasm that occasionally marked Trailer Park, and the emotional attachment that brought to life the better moments on Central Reservation, have utterly vanished. Some of the Big Name guests appearing on Daybreaker include the Chemical Brothers, William Orbit, Ben Watt, and Johnny Marr, the combined talent of which, amazingly, seems to have gone into making this album devoid of much personally at all. Apart from a little \"Space Oddity\"style send off on \"Mount Washington\" presumably courtesy of one of the above knobtwisters the presence of all of the above musicians passes unnoticeably. Which is probably a good thing, come to think of it. Unfortunately, the same can't be said of Winonabait Ryan Adams. The alternahunko'theminute's grubby paws are all over this record, and his presence is all too conspicuous, though his name is suspiciously left off the sticker. (That Ryan, such a shy one.) Adams seems to have taken a break of, oh, say, half an hour or so from smoking joints and getting his bedhead just so to write a song 'specially for Beth. \"This One's Gonna Bruise,\" tackles (I'm guessing) the subject of domestic violence with such, er, hardhitting lyrics as: \"I feel bad for you, I feel bad for you, but I don't know why, I don't know why...\" Slippery. I've mentioned all the peripheries accompanying this album because, after a halfdozen times through the album, they're all you're left with. Apart from the opening track, the slightly rousing, stringheavy \"Paris Train,\" nothing genuinely reaches out and latches on. Even the blips and bloops that pop up here and there (such as on the title track) lose all potential effectiveness in the overproduced, glossy morass. But what truly separates Daybreaker from other Orton efforts is its lack of emotional resonance moments where Beth just belts it out or where she actually seems engaged with the songs she's singing. But, as with her cover photo, she seems to just passively sit there as the album goes by, just another guest artist on a generic Astralwerks Record Project. Orton's voice is still astounding, conjuring blurs of Joni Mitchell and a slight elvishess without resorting to neofolk schlock, but it's rarely, if ever, put to good use here. The songs are just so tentative and directionless, and the whole electroacoustic thing so formulaically and routinely applied, that she seems like a mere pawn at the mercy of her collaborators and record company. Beth has been a guilty pleasure of mine since Trailer Park, mainly due to her strong vocals and occasional flashes of brilliance (like \"Pass in Time\" from Central Reservation). But Daybreaker leaves me rightfully shamed: the pleasure is gone, leaving me with only the guilt. "}