{"label":" Rephlex","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5985/homepage_large.6440aea0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Ovuca","title":"Wasted Sunday","text":" Ovuca, known to the Tooth Fairy as Aleksi Perälä, may have reached a steady state of coherence. Ovuca's previous releases have been scattershot blasts of intense drillnbass, piano interludes, flute warbles, and the like. Rephlex, it's seemed, would release anything Perälä commits to tape. But Wasted Sunday sees what is possibly the first time Perälä has handed over an entire album's worth of worthy material. Perälä has said that small critters that frequent a park nearby him inspired the sound of Wasted Sunday. Taking that oddball statement to be true big gulp of credulity squirrels, sparrows, earthworms, and sundry other varmints must not care for shredding beatcore techno or portentous piano solos à la Drukqs. Wasted Sunday provides all creatures with precise and happy, yet considered, IDM. It's time for zoologists to rework their calculations of squirrel IQ. Don't let the rodents have all the fun, though. There's no reason why creatures higher up the mammalian phylum shouldn't scamper friskily during the delightfully naïve \"Gas Bubbles\" or the alltoobrief Boards of Canada vs. Nobakazu Takemura clash \"Albert Questionmark.\" \"Afternoon Girl\" situates the breakbeat electro of labelmate Kosmik Kommando in a perpetually twilit land where fawns frolic in a beautiful place out in the country. The brooding melodicism of \"Treetment\" could have partially redeemed Vespertine's ponderousness, had Björk pressganged Perälä into her IDM battle squad. \"Innocent Pedestrain\" weaves a toytown rave tune and some harsh TB303 acid bubbles into a spacious serenity reminiscent of Akotcha's chillout classic, \"Go Sub. That serenity ensures that all the hostility Ovuca's aggrorave EP King Stacey incurred is dispelled in seventy minutes of leftfield chill. However, I very much doubt that Wasted Sunday marks a change in Rephlex's A&R; policy. With the forthcoming release of Cylob's rendition of \"What Shall We Do With a Drunken Sailor?\" the label appears intent on maintaining its maverick/maniac rep. Wasted Sunday may be a blip, but what a gorgeous blip it surely is. I'd like to upbraid Perälä on one detail, though. If this album is what he'd consider a wasted Sunday, he's not trying hard enough. I've always made a clear distinction between wasted and merely unproductive. I determine whether a day is unproductive when I fail to make any headway with my laundry or with the compilation of this year's Christmas card list. A day is wasted when I've fristered it away, pondering, say, whether there's any mileage in computational ceramics. If Perälä is being gauchely selfdeprecating about this album, that's the only error I think any seasoned IDM'r could charge him with. But if not, and he knows he can do better, why waste a Sunday on creating simply pleasant music when you could be forging a masterpiece? "}