{"label":" Def Jam","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/603/homepage_large.3483e009.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Beastie Boys","title":"Licensed to Ill","text":" \"Look, I don't know why, but George Wagoner is going to kick my ass today. Don't laugh, bitch, I'm serious! I never should have told that slut that skins were assholes.\" \"Haha, you're dead, man.\" \"Shut up, bitch, I'm telling you I can't wait for the bus because they know where I catch it. You have to try to get Mr. Davis to drive around to the side like he sometimes does for Chris. I'm gonna go out the back, from the cafeteria. And I already talked to Nick, but he just said he didn't know if he could do anything. Which, that doesn't even make any sense because I thought they were supposedly best friends.\" \"Hey man, I think you're gonna get killed today. You know Tracy's sister?\" \"Yeah, fool, that's the one who I told about skins. That's what I was talking about.\" \"Yeah, she's crafty and she's just Dom's type. Hahahaha!!!\" \"She is a crafty bitch.\"Poltergeists and Licensed to Ill: Some things only make sense to kids. Too many years removed from junior high, they tend only to reveal themselves in annoying bursts of violence, confusion and rhymes like Abe Vigoda. And it's not even because their appeal is particularly juvenile, but rather that they operate in a realm only comprehensible to the innocent; those untouched by the brutal reality of the real world, where everyday injustice skews our perception to the point that what might have been common sense to us as adolescents now seems mystifying. To little Carol Anne, AdRock simply is another child. New York bratscumactivists Beastie Boys have gone to great pains to explain the error of their 80s ways. This is not to say they've been apologetic, but only too keen to emphasize the arcs of their characters over the years. Licensed to Ill, like Cooky Puss and the underrated Rock Hard EP before it, were indeed both impressively ahead of their time, and rudimentary to the extreme. How a city that already had ESG felt it needed the Beastie Boys in the mid80s is a question that confounds the ages; yet, AdRock, MCA and Mike D could hardly have predicted the slacker generation better if they'd tried (which they didn't). Chalk it up to NYC eclecticism, perhaps. Chalk it up to RunDMC and Madonna, who helped showcase them to the most economically and culturally powerful generation of kids since the boomers. Chalk it up to Russell Simmons and Rick Rubin. And MTV. Most of all, remember that at their worst, these guys got thrown out of White Castle for being too loud.Licensed to Ill is given a lot of credit for predating the whole raprock thing of the 90s. Bad news for the Beasties: History appears to contradict that assessment. First of all, their cornball Cali cousins the Red Hot Chili Peppers had already graced the earth with two LPs prior to Ill, not to mention beating them to the 70s funk revival by working with George Clinton. Secondly, contrary to most rock writers' beliefs, white guys + guitars do not necessarily = rock. Had they released Ill even four years later, it would have been a novelty record. It's dated remarkably badly, while Rick Rubin's skill with the mixer (and drum machine) is entirely questionable. The rhymes... well...\"I got franks and pork and beans/ Always bust the new routines.\" \"Spent some bank, I got a high powered jumbo/ Rolled up a wooly and I watched Colombo.\" \"I keep a pistol in my pocket so you better be cautious/ Fly around the world but it makes me nauseous.\" \"Get ready/ 'Cause this ain't funny/ My name's Mike D and I'm about to get money.\" Okay, so it isn't the music or all the rhymes that translate beyond the scene of the crime. What, then? Probably just that the Beasties didn't give a fuck AND AMERICA DESPERATELY NEEDED TO BE SHOWN HOW NOT TO GIVE A FUCK. And it sort of still does. Licensed to Ill demonstrated that you could be \"groundbreaking\" and \"important,\" and still have no goals beyond getting drunk before 6th period. Think about that. It meant that you could live life as one giant inside joke, speaking in tongues and making hilarious references to Chef Boyardee with no one outside your circle of jerks the wiser. Sorry ma, forgot to take out the trash, but that's okay because I drink Brass Monkey and I rock well. \"What?\" \"Nothing.\" In light of this information, it almost seems pointless to recap the highlights. Does anyone really care that \"Rhymin' and Stealin\"\" witnessed Rubin's genius for exposing the sampleability of Led Zeppelin? No, because, \"My pistol is loaded, I shot Betty Crocker/ Deliver Colonel Sanders down to Davey Jones' locker\" is awesome, and if you don't get it then whatthefuckever. Does it matter that \"Fight for Your Right\" actually does kind of invent raprock? No, because everyone has their best porno mag, and these guys are just telling it like it is, and rap is the CNN of rock. Do you know what \"I did it with my whiffleball bat\" means? Has anyone ever even been to Brooklyn? Who in their right mind is sampling Creedence? Is \"I should have probably guessed her gay\" the best line ever, or is it when they brag about having more rhymes than Phyllis Diller? Despite its seeming defiance of respectable society, there is no shortage of folks who would canonize Licensed to Ill hence this new edition, replete with commemorative DVD. For Miller's sake, it's the Beastie Boys' worst record. (Even though we all secretly know it's their best.) Yet, there's something impressive about tapping into the secret language of the immature and terminally slack. All these years later, with every listen, it becomes clearer to me that you can never really outrun your inner idiot. "}