{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5989/homepage_large.c41c7de9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Owen","title":"Owen","text":" Owen is the new miracle drug for the treatment of chronic insomnia. The FDA has begun testing it as anal ternative general anesthesia for certain surgical procedures. Law enforcement officials have suggested using it to subdue antiglobalization protesters at this summer's WTO rally. I'm saying Owen's debut album is going to put you to sleep here, people! Which is not necessarily a bad thing. As I grow older, sleep is quickly becoming one of my favorite activities, and an album that assists me in the process can hold a very special place in my collection. Sedative qualities don't have to equal boring; it can also mean the music is just pleasant or comforting. At the end of a long, hard day, I like nothing more than putting a CD in my stereo and gently drifting off to sleep, something that's hard to do with the Ramones or JayZ on. Owen, by the way, is not a guy named Owen, but the solo project of one Mike Kinsella, indierock journeyman formerly/currently of American Football, Joan of Arc, and Owls. Why Kinsella would name his oneman band Owen rather than, say, Mike, is a mystery, though I like to think that it's in tribute to mid80s Red Sox shortstop Spike Owen. Not likely, but a nice scenario. Kinsella pulls off his musical sandman act by primarily utilizing that most sleepy of instruments, the acoustic guitar. Eschewing chord strumming for delicate, dreamy fingerpicking, Owen's songs generally sit on a central riff repeated for the three or fourminute duration, lulling the listener into a hypnotic state. Kinsella's justaboveawhisper vocals also soothe the ear, a million miles away from the throaty yelp of his brother Tim and generally avoiding typical versechorus structure or melody. If this all sounds like an unplugged version of American Football, you're mostly right. But the setting is considerably more intimate on Owen, without Kinsella's earlier vehicle's spiraling guitar epics and octopus drumming. Also gone is the postbreakup open wound nature of American Football's lyrics, the raw honesty of which could provoke weeping fits or retching, depending on one's tolerance for emoting. Instead, Owen's themes are considerably less traumatic, if not exactly sunshine and lollipops (one song is called \"Declaration of Incompetence\"). And when drums organic or programmed are added into the mix, they're sedate and simple, keeping the tunes from floating off into space without disrupting the relaxed tone. The other instrumental flourishes Kinsella adds to the mix vibraphone, organ, strings similarly add depth and color to his compositions without becoming a distraction. The combination works best on the album closer, \"Think About It,\" which progresses patiently through three distinct movements over its sevenminute run time. Many of the tracks are seamlessly blended into one another, maintaining the warm, drowsy glow with brief instrumental passages. \"Accidentally\" serves as the strongest of these, as Kinsella slowly overdubs more and more guitars playing complimenting themes until the song builds into a soft, cushy pillow of... zzzzzzzz... Whoa. Sorry about that. Given the above description, it'd be easy to categorize Owen as mopecore, or slowcore, or curlupinthefetalpositionandhaveagoodcrycore. Correct, too; Kinsella invites the comparison himself by not too subtly mimicking the Red House Painters on \"Places to Go.\" But while Owen adds little to the genre's customary sound, one has to admit he does it well by not letting the tortoiselike pace get too monotonous. Obviously then, if this kind of subdued, contemplative music makes you want to kick someone in the groin, Owen should not be placed on your tobuy list. But if you're more receptive to sad white guys making music in their bedroom, or if your prescription for Valium is running out, it might be for you. Just don't operate any heavy machinery during use. "}