{"label":" Monitor","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/5994/homepage_large.d140b83b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Oxes","title":"Oxes EP","text":" Oxes, Baltimore's rowdiest Rowdyists, have long pursued the perfect hoax: They constructed an apocryphal protest narrative around their 2002 Oxxxes LP, and released a fake split with Arab on Radar that pissed off the entire experimentalhardcore community (all ten members of it). The kneejerk reaction is to write off these boondoggles as publicity stunts; more realistically, they seem to stem from an abiding sense of playfulness: \"Let's see what'll happen if we do this.\" How many extra records are you going to sell for pretending to be Arab on Radar, anyway? In another counterintuitive turn, the band known for their long, absurd song titles seems to have omitted them entirely from their latest EP. This could scan as a rejection of songasbiofodder, a tacit manifesto stating that music belongs to the moment, not the museum. The stance would dovetail nicely with the fact that Oxes really occur in the ephemeral live setting, and remain unable to accurately translate their visceral shows to the album format. The five songs on Oxes EP are brambly, muscular mathmetal slabs, but listening to prerecorded versions of them is like looking at graffiti in an art gallery. The execution is remarkable, the lines expressive, the colors vibrant, but they lose something vital without the world clamoring around them. Still, Oxes manage to put a unique spin on mathrock and metal. Let's be frank: Mathrock is some boring, noodlyass shit that, by packing \"surprises\" into every abrupt meter and dynamic shift, completely squanders its capacity to surprise. Oxes focus on mathrock's bodily, combustible potential and turn it into drunken party music, never forgetting which part of the genre's name is the modifier and which is the foundation. The bluesy metal vamp of the first track never squanders a shred of momentum for forced complexity, and the second is a twisted Southern rock shredfest that's intricate without being cerebral.  While American metal often resorts to vague tropes of Germanic fascism, Oxes forgo guttural vocals and jackbooted cadences in favor a metal that sounds drenched in American pride. This fauxjingoism really comes to the fore on the fourth track, with its anthemic stomp and satirically patriotic guitar lead that echoes Hendrix's incensed \"The StarSpangled Banner\". This blend of bombast and belligerence undercuts the entire album (ironically, but with a vitality that would shame Toby Keith), barring the final track, which bends toward a compressed, gnarly sort of Krautrock. If it isn't a breakthrough record, Oxes EP is another solid entry from a band that refuses to abandon the sense of play and mischief that rock music threatens to lose as it vies for space in the safe havens of glossy column inches.  "}