{"label":" Cold Crush","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/5997/homepage_large.089432f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Anna Oxygen","title":"All Your Faded Things","text":" At a sweaty, smoky loftparty in Williamsburg recently, amid frequent costume changes and disengaged dance moves, a coed troupe of newwavers droned about aliens over preprogrammed beats. About halfway through the charade, a friend turned to me and said they reminded him of N*Sync. \"Maybe, but not as sincere,\" I replied. All Your Faded Things shares topical aesthetic similarities to this Brooklyn nightmare, but Anna Oxygen escapes all that empty, popart falsity. She's also got a knack for solid songwriting, infusing her lyrics with thriftstoreromantic touches and constructing emotionally resonant quote/unquote electroclash. Though surviving mainly on a diet of lowimpact, easily consumed paintbynumber moves, Oxygen has a great voice and an eccentric sense of melody, picking odd syllabic pairings and juxtapositions, gruffly sweet intonations, and complex vocal patterning. Placing her operatic gestures atop pompom drum machine blips and busy keytar, her timbre is topically similar to Wynne Greenwood of Tracy + The Plastics, but she indulges in fewer Galas octave sweeps; instead, like Siouxsie raised on Freddy Mercury, she ooh's and ahh's finely layered Queenstyled vocal choruses intermixed with a few creepy Nina Hagen chirps. (Showing range, her contributions to The Microphones are more Mirahsubdued.) This sounds okay, but then, alas, enter the gimmicks. Much like Greenwood or Miranda July, Oxygen twists her work around an interactive live show including thriftstore DIY theater and visual projections. Contentwise, she says the majority of her songs are about a story involving a space scientist who captures girls' universes and puts them in petri dishes where he can listen to them and vicariously experience their lives: \"Each new imaginary girlworld I came up with became a motivation for me to make up a new soundtrack to go along with it.\" This is fairly similar to Greenwood's reason for creating Tracy + The Plastics in 1999: \"It started as the soundtrack/characters of this chooseyrownadventuremurdermystery movie I was writing about these girls who called themselves The Plastics and ran a pawn shop in this dreary little town at the foot of these mountains. They replaced parts of themselves with hypercolorful pieces of plastic that fell from the towns on top of the mountains, above the cloud cover.\" Recycled tropes and pop music go handinhand, but when similarly paced Pacific Northwest onewoman bands offer a common framework, the incestuousness of this sort of music is lamely apparent. (Oxygen has a brief tune, \"Primary Colors\", which reenacts the transformation from blackandwhite to color that Greenwood describes in her band's cosmology.) Oxygen's work would be more substantial sans the clapalong aerobics and artschool posturing, especially since the strongest tracks on All Your Faded Things hinge on actual hooks a rarity in a genre often considered to be more consumed by its fashion than its songs. The heartbreaker, \"Red Horse Cafe\", offers one of the better backwards glances of this past year, and by dramatically situating the protagonists in the cafe of the song's title to work on a reconciliation, it moves into Johnny Cash Tallyho Tavern territory. Pumped with the storytelling of The Human League or Pulp (think \"Disco 2000\"), the chorus is smokeaddled, faded scoopneck sweater, rusted safetypin pretty. Doubling the vocal tracks, Oxygen heightens and extends her voice, as if resolutely stepping forward for a last dance with arm extended: \"I like you so much, I don't want to lose you/ I think I could kiss you but I don't want to hurt you.\" Like the best punk, the line mixes desire, a threat, and something to make you want to pogo. A few other tracks the oneplusone School House Rock of \"Spectacle\", the New Order loveliness of \"Baby Blue\", and the spooky choral darkness of \"Nerve Angels Three\" and \"Aviva\" offer equally solid, if transitory moments. But while Oxygen certainly has a knack for reinscribing 80s drama into the fabric of 2003, even her best pop is marred by secondrate instrumentation lackluster drum tracks, bland keytar lines, and the like. Without taking things further than a flimsy electro zeitgeist, her potentially successful project becomes regrettably tedious. "}