{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6003/homepage_large.3bb5e02c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Fritz Ostermayer","title":"Kitsch Concrete","text":" For a time, my main cultural connections to Austria were the tersely misanthropic novelist and playwright Thomas Bernhard, the shitandswanobsessed Vienna Actionists, and the super cloying yet oddly affecting The Sound of Music, which, as a kid, I unwittingly turned into transgression worthy of Otto Muehl by shifting the melancholic refrain of \"Edelweiss\" into the more violently intrusive \"Anal Vice\". On Kitsch Concrete, Viennabased broadcaster, author, DJ and musician Fritz Ostermayer coaxes these disparate points of departure into a waft of garish prettiness that exudes the desolate joy of a tinselstrewn pub swathed in red felt wallpaper and sporting a jukebox dedicated to both the desiccated whirls of Musique Concrete and the martinifueled torchsongs of Mel Torme and Roxy Music. Sublimely evoking an Austrian Johnny Cash shooting for high notes, Ostermayer applies the tenants of Pierre Henry to trumpet, clarinet, choir, boy/girl duets, electronics, tinny samples, drums, and drum machines, and dislocated bits of Procol Harum, Austrian multiinstrumental didgeridooist Hermann Delago and the German trance band Emou. From the softfocused lightbulb heart overlooking a 120 Days of Sodom orgy and a quote from 19th century naturalistnovel courtesan Josephine Mutzenbacher to a yodeling shoutout to Bertolt Brecht and a promotional photo of Ostermayer with a gun in his mouth, the old sod exhibits a facility for intelligent juxtapositions and imagistic layering. The 47yearold selfdescribed \"romantic anarchist\" locates the sentimental aura surrounding a projected fuckfest and sets it within a lowbit remake of \"Pale Blue Eyes\" by Bony M. For the less triumphant, more downcast swells, Ostermayer is a brokenhearted, tearinhisHeineken Kurt Schwitters teaming with Burt Bacharach to commemorate a failed seduction (while reams of unclaimed dadaist love songs flit namelessly around town on flyers composed with halfeaten typography and ginflavored bubblegum). His tenderly scatological originals, ethnicsounding standards, Eastern European techno, and blissfully sodden versions of John Cale's \"Big White Cloud\" and Sparks' \"Angst in My Pants\" and \"Fun Bunch of Guys\" are the gaudiest of melodies sung over caustic, droning, growling backdrops. Ostermayer's most successful remake is a heartfelt croon on the text of Nick Cave's version of \"Just a Closer Walk with Thee\". Ostermayer turns the gospel ballad into electronic Kraftwerk drama kept together with a nobtwisting pitchshifter center. Really, the oddball Russian Gypsy dance groove implanted on Sparks and the dramaqueen Cale aren't too shabby either. Otherwise, \"Ave Little Maria\" is as rousing a brokenangel drinking hymn as just about anything I've heard by The Pogues or on Tom Waits' Closing Time; Ostermayer's ability to wrap a tiny love song in such a garish coating of paint is something special. He lifts my pastelhued spirits to the heavens while allowing my soiled mind to remain in the shitcaked gutter. Though not everything reaches the heights of the skymelting horns on \"Ave Little Maria\" or the twisted foolery of his best covers, with Kitsch Concrete I've definitely found that longawaited missing link between The Sound of Music and Sado Masochism. "}