{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6004/homepage_large.77ff3be4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Odd Nosdam","title":"No More Wig For Ohio","text":" It must have been the crackly, nofi production that made Odd Nosdam sound so unreachably weird all those years. He had the requisite demented imagination to put those creepy backdrops into cLOUDDEAD like deserts swept with wornout electrical storms and \"Eviction Notice\", that track he did for Sage Francis, was the scariest nightmare a kid ever had. But it was the rough crackle of vinyl and cheap reproduction that clinched it: Odd Nosdam's productions sounded like they'd been made on a tape recorder fished out of the trash; brokeass, unreliable and stained by everything that had gone through the alley he was creeping through when he found it. It sounded like personal history, and nothing's weirder than that. So right away, his second fulllength sounds suspiciously clean. These twentyfour untitled instrumentals aren't as random as the collages on his Split EP with Why?, as hostile as Plan 9: Meat Your Hypnotist, or as atmospheric as the cLOUDDEAD beats: for the first time, it sounds like he sat down in a good studio and carefully assembled a record. That's good, in that Odd Nosdam's production rode out the lofi thing for exactly long enough before moving on; but it's also a disappointment, because the new work isn't far off from where he was before it recycles a lot of his ideas with none of his usual edginess. The first half of the record flashes his sense of humor and kitschfetish. He's funny when he plays crappy Sunday School records; it's still a laugh when he drops heavy jackboot beats on top of a silly or tacky song \"Fish Heads\" in one case, some goofy polka in another. Track six uses a 50sera demonstration record for the Magnus Electric Chord Organ: a salesman is showing some rubes how to play, but the minute they touch the organ Odd Nosdam subs in thick, funky chords and beats. It's an obvious \"stomp on something square with something hip\" joke, but it still works for me and the fat, blatting chords are the meatiest music on the record. That's also one of the \"funkiest\" tracks on an album that leans as much on oompah beats and random stylejumps as \"straight\" hiphop. Like a collage of soundtracks to old TV commercials he mixes eccentric voices and cheesy exotica, sometimes cutting abruptly but not so much as to suggest a deficient attention span. It sounds like it's building to something exciting but he falters. When the polka on track eleven gives way to a slow, shimmering setting of \"Mary Had a Little Lamb\", the record takes a turn underwater: the music moves like a submarine, lurking with just its periscope poking out to show a sign of life. The last twelve tracks meander at a plodding tempo that comes off as samey, even murky. With strings and beats here, moaning electronics there, each piece is carefully arranged but tame. Track twentyone's hostile melody and militant beats leap out next to the other, more passive cuts, but all together the pieces are too methodical, like he's just working through the DJ Shadow Exercise Workbook. It wouldn't be constructive to criticize the record for not sounding \"weird\" enough, though that's always been part of Odd Nosdam's appeal the sheer inventiveness and constant development of his voice. No More Wig For Ohio takes a step forward in craftsmanship and patience, and it's a tighter and more accomplished record than the random, sometimes hardtodigest bedroom recordings that started his carer. But it also lacks the tension: the juxtaposition of novelty vinyl with atmospheric horror, or the disorientation of his collages. Even his less successful albums were more gripping and more personal. No More Wig For Ohio cops out on its more tantalizing promise of something more sinister below the surface all this disc really tells us is that Odd Nosdam's a solid DJ who likes doofy vinyl. "}