{"label":" Mush","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13550/homepage_large.3e45cb67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Omid","title":"Monolith","text":" Defining what makes a good producer is one of the most subjective arguments a critic can make. Some appreciate pure, raw sample building, some praise sharp, calculated synthetic melodies and others simply opt for a position that can create tension or atmosphere. In the case of Mush Records' latest upstart, Omid tries everything on his debut LP, Monolith, but never quite creates an identity. The first comparison to be made is that his style of production stands as an admittedly intriguing amalgam of Anticon lofi and West Coast underground bombast. His focus is utterly scattered, making it difficult to define his approach: \"Live from Tokyo\" is Rick Rubin minimalism, a display of stutter crunk with horns and boardwalk bass thump, \"Double Header\" is an idiosyncratic, heavydrummed carnival whistle bounce, while \"Ripple Study\" is fuzzsynth shimmer with popping, clicking drums and analog noises. Unfortunately, it's never as interesting as it sounds the concepts sound ethereal, but the actual composition leaves much to be desired. Instead of being concise like Prefuse 73 or adding various phaseshifts like Rjd2, Omid is content to let his compositions drift stationary or shift to less than interesting directions. In the most basic terms, Omid's a decent producer with no idea how to pace an instrumental. As with many modern instrumentalist showcases, Omid has called in a few of his subterranean friends to bless his soundscapes, with varying degrees of success. While Hyminal comes off like a fake Saul Williams (that is to say, faker), Busdriver never utilizes his mastery of speed rap or melody, instead opting to cover his voice in radio feedback while screaming antiBush rhetoric over jagged Alec Empirestyled noise synth, and even Buck 65 sounds uninspired, retreading tired baseball metaphors and sleepwalking through what sounds like a series of unrelated outtakes. \"Live from Tokyo\", though, is the biggest disappointment by some distance. Featuring Slug, Aceyalone, MURS, and Luckyiam.PSC, the track seemed to bear incredible promise. The retro pausefunk of the beat could've easily inspired better performances from each artist, but it seems as if Omid's production purely draws mediocrity from rappers, regardless of his obvious talent. Aceyalone lets us (and the friends he's obviously now writing verses to) know that he's \"not Japanese,\" but rather \"Nigganese,\" while Slug manages once again to provide a verse with stunningly elaborate depth that means absolutely nothing: he esoterically insults MC No One and focuses on a woman's facial features in a single verse. Less sprawling than the Anticon production team, yet too unpolished to hope for commercial viability, Omid is caught in a production paradox. His work is never bad, but he rarely takes his beats far enough to carry an album based solely around an artist's background musical talent. If Omid can manage to master a single style, instead of haphazardly attempting several approaches, he might yet carve his niche in the turbulent underground. "}