{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6010/homepage_large.58235be7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Organum / Z'EV","title":"Tinnitus Vu","text":" There are few artists more elusive than David Jackman. The only interview of his I've ever read was in ND Magazine, featuring a photograph of a little shrew in lieu of a portrait of Jackman. Active in modern music since the early 1960s, Jackman took part in British composer Cornelius Cardew's crucial Scratch Orchestra, which at various times has featured luminaries such as granddaddies of noise AMM, composers Howard Skempton and Gavin Bryars, and the legendary Brian Eno. Since then either under his own name or under the more recognized moniker, Organum Jackman has released countless records that exist on the peripheral edges of industrial and experimental music. Whether on cassette, LP, or single, these transmissions are usually cooked up in editions so miniscule that within weeks of their release their average eBay price is greater than the number of extant copies.As private as Jackman is, his list of collaborators reads like a who's who of experimental heavyweights: Jim O'Rourke, Nurse with Wound's Steve Stapleton, Current 93's David Tibet, Main, Eddie Prevost, The Haters, The New Blockaders, and Christoph Heemann have all had roles in his ongoing Organum project. This new release stems from a 1999 dinner date between mutual acquaintances, at which Jackman handed tapes over to prototypical sound pounder, Z'EV. It's an apt pairing considering that Z'EV's earbleeding early work laid the Ibeams for folks like Einstürzende Neubauten and Test Dept. (He also kept the klangbeat on \"anvil\" for an early Glenn Branca symphony.) Despite both men's love of muscular and metallic drones, natural sound decay, and endless mechanistic churning (Jackman has released singles of machine gun fire and tank engines), this new alliance leans more towards Organum's propensity toward maddening brevity.As a result, Tinnitus Vu is four tracks long and clocks in just at 16 minutes. Named after a garden lunch discussion they had about each other's loss of hearing, initiate listeners might not quite understand what they're hearing, either: In Jackman's oeuvre, sound sources are impossible to approximate. A resounding piano chord stretched and morphed beyond recognition introduces each shift in the drone. Even with all the manipulations, these suspended strings carry through the buzzing din. The record's sleeve art, which features an xrayed boxspring on its cover and stretchedout coils strung along a snowcoated fence in the countryside on its back, suggests these too could be the source of the drone. As always with Organum, that metalscratched drone is dangerous, hypnotic, brutal, and beatific. \"II\" creaks like a squeaky bed and a windblasted ghost ship, while \"III\" glowers with menacing Vaderesque breathing until the ringing piano returns.Tinnitus Vu is more widely available than most of Jackman's intriguing and defining work, much of which has been released on smaller imprints such as Germany's Die Stadt, the U.S.'s Robot Records, the UK's Matchless, and Japan's Siren Records. But even if it's impossible to completely capture or collect all of Jackman's output even the ones that feature his best work each of his droning soundsc(r)apes is still a treat. "}