{"label":" 17 Reasons","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6012/homepage_large.e1856e50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"On the Speakers","title":"On the Speakers EP","text":" Depending on your threshold for wordplayful band names, On the Speakers can either aid you in a cute throwback to a legendary Abbott & Costello routine, or cause you to erupt into a fit of impassioned violence. But its pun potential aside, On the Speakers is a hohum name for a group characterless and unevocative, not to mention a bit awkward to use alongside other prepositions (see below). The foursome behind the name, which includes former Creeper Lagoon frontman Ian Sefchick, barely transcends this nomenclatural blandness: On the Speakers seem to have few ambitions beyond picking up where Creeper Lagoon's final album, 2001's Take Back the Universe and Give Me Yesterday, left off. Their selftitled debut EP, which was originally released in late 2003 by San Francisco's 17 Reasons label, features the same type of selfeffacing loser's anthems Sefchick wrote with his former band, along with the same chiming guitars and bigdrama choruses. While the songs are unsurprising as a general rule, there are some notsoguilty pleasures on On the Speakers (see?). Dan Horne's bass trips along on \"Share Your Self\", never content to settle for playing either rhythm section or melody, but trying to straddle both. And Sefchick still has an admirable talent for investing obtuse or unoriginal lyrics with actual sincerity. \"The heart is just a muscle,\" he observes wryly on \"Could I Be Right\" (perhaps unwittingly referencing a similar line from Clem Snide's song \"Exercise\", from 2000's Your Favorite Music). And on the workplace love song \"Click Your Heels\", he counsels, \"It's alright to be female,\" before asking, \"Are you the pawn of love or the king of discipline?\" Somehow, he manages to make these lyrics sound like dares rather than whines. The problem with On the Speakers, however, is the overfamiliarity of Sefchick's songwriting formula. He begins with a fairly subdued verse backed by the interplay of immaculate guitars, then dependable as clockwork he launches into an anthemic chorus that comes down like a wrecking ball. Sometimes this trajectory from small to big, from club venue to arena, fits the songs naturally and perfectly. The first (and best) track, \"Could I Be Right\", tinkers with this formula by adding a catchy leadin to the chorus, and the final song, \"Dance Crazy\", promisingly expresses a deep, sobervoiced anomie as Sefchick sounds genuinely addled by wartime paranoia and uncertainty. But the four songs that separate these two tracks rely too heavily on Sefchick's cookiecutter song structures, each one indulging in a sweeping chorus about one minute and fifteen seconds in. This constant reiteration not only renders each track indistinct from the others, but breeds an unimaginative predictability that increasingly dilutes the songs' cumulative effect. As a result, On the Speakers sounds repetitive at a mere six songs, and On the Speakers barely skirt redundancy themselves. At the same time, these songs reveal a relatively new band still working on building a distinct, dynamic identity. As they prove with the catchy melodies of \"Could I Be Right\" and the unexpected topicality of \"Dance Crazy\", On the Speakers sound best when they're willing to risk something, which suggests that they have all the elements to live up to or live down their name. "}