{"label":" Bulb","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6014/homepage_large.2990079c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Oakley Hall","title":"Oakley Hall","text":" Oakley Hall is a goodnatured band from the countryside of Brooklyn, New York. And on their selftitled Bulb debut, they offer a collection of rambling honkytonk that exists refreshingly outofframe, eager to rollick in the genre's bleary, heartbroken roots, but curious enough about the clang and call of the city to work in plenty of amplification and screechy organ amidst their banjos, fiddles, and pedal steel. Don't say \"altcountry\" it makes me picture J. Mascis sporting Kiefer Sutherland's moustache from The Cowboy Way. But you're welcome to order another Genesee and stretch out on the old church pew in the corner. The band is the brainchild of Papa Crazee (exOneida), who, when last heard from, had cut up his hand in a rather grisly table saw accident. He resurfaces here backed by a gaggle of players, including a supporting vocalist with a lovely voice. Her name is unclear, as are most of the details surrounding Oakley Hall Bulb's press materials are more about suggestion than fact. But that emphasis works like a charm, since the album's better without qualification. Both its breaded steak country stomps and the occasional, quieter passages drift over the tenements like the wispy aroma of a peach pie spiked with Wild Turkey. \"Feel This Way\" drops into gear with a nod to the 70s trucker idiom, its gang vocals chiming over a greasy backbeat worthy of a song about selfdefeatist sex. \"Color the Shade\" fades in on the monotone sustain of an organ (a B3, maybe), and as its tone warbles louder, it reflects Oneida's dark psyche prowess and their fractured approach to genrespattered indie. But here, the organ goes quiet, and instead gives way to a bassline reminiscent of \"Sittin' on the Dock of the Bay\", as well as strummed acoustics and a series of distant fiddle fills. Crazee and his female counterpart harmonize on lines like, \"Saw a color the shade of you/ Chased it down a one way street before I knew/ Reds just made me mad/ Blues just made me sad/ And yellows remind me of other fellows/ That you screwed.\" The last line is nearly lost in a great burst of squelch electric guitar, another nod to the present that keeps Oakley Hall closer to operators like Acetone than anything on the Lost Highway's shoulder. Oakley Hall are neither ironic nor revivalist, but recordings like this don't work without an appreciation for traditionalism. Just ask Ween, who recorded 12 Golden Country Greats with a bunch of crack Nashville studio cats. To that end, Oakley Hall keeps \"Foolish Heart\" on a redandwhite gingham keel not far from your average roadhouse, and \"5 Sided Die\" is wellexecuted, if straightforward rootsrocker. These tracks don't have the intangibles of Oakley Hall's better moments the ones that glint like tiny diamonds scattered in peanut shavings but they're probably necessary for an album enamored of the relationship between city wolf and country wolf. The album really shines in its second half, when the mazewalking traveler of its cover finally sets foot on the flaming world in the center. \"End Time Evangelist\" is a slurred gothic rumination calling to the Handsome Family from a grimy diner's corner table, while \"You Wouldn't Believe What I've Been Up To (Since You've Been Gone)\" puts the female vocals front and center for a hilariously morbid letter to a departed lover. \"I take a nap in a hot drawn bath,\" she sings absentmindedly over gentle chords, \"with the radio under my arm...\" That hyperdistorted organ returns late in the album, too, this time for the rowdy \"Ridin' the Dog\". And then, the record ends, plaintively, with the 7minuteplus epic \"Tuscaloosa\". Papa Crazee's voice cracks on the hiccups as he wanders through life with a heavy, totally crushedout heart. He warns his woman away from him as a fiddle fades in sadly; he knows the resulting sparks would light them both in the fires of damnation. The song's extended instrumental outro will ring true and heartfelt with the O Brother crowd (as most of Oakley Hall's material likely would), but this band never tries to follow a framework, and often hurls grapeshot at strangers looking for one. Indeed, at the end of the day, Oakley Hall is just a great basement album, a backroom favorite made to heal the rifts in city girls' country hearts. "}