{"label":" Quakebasket","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6019/homepage_large.2eb90430.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"On Fillmore","title":"Sleeps With Fishes","text":" If you're the type who likes to get belligerent about such things, there's an argument to be made that Nels Cline or no Nels Cline Glenn Kotche has had the most consistently intriguing career of any member of Wilco. (Although heaven help you if you find yourself crossways with a sanctimonious John Stirratt fan.) Both prior to and concurrent with his time in Wilco, Kotche has lent his uniquely expansive style of percussion to a remarkable array of projects, from solo works to stints playing with such acts as the Boxhead Ensemble, Bobby Conn, the Fred LonbergHolm Trio, and Simon Joyner. Some of Kotche's most adventurous and satisfying activities have been conducted as one half of On Fillmore, his experimental duo with bassist Darin Gray (another guy who's built himself a weird and wondrous discography with his work in bands like BriseGlace and Dazzling Killmen.) On Sleeps With Fishes the two utilize double bass, vibraphone, and an inscrutable assortment of tuned percussion and field recordings to create a mesmerizing, pointillist topography; one built of tiny sounds that twinkle like the reflection of fireflies upon an inkblack river. One quick side note: My dog typically ignores all music, usually remaining completely oblivious to whatever crazy sounds might be emanating from my speakers. But for\\xCAsome reason Sleeps With Fishes drives her absolutely bananas. The main culprit is the album's first track \"Hikali\", which not only features tapes of what sounds like chirping birds or squirrels but also several belllike tones that sound, to the unwary, suspiciously like the sound of my doorbell. To the canine mind, all of these collected sounds apparently signal some sort of call to action. Exactly what that action is supposed to entail remains vague, although it certainly seems to require a lot of barking. Hopefully, however, your human response to Sleeps With Fishes will be more subdued though perhaps just as fervent. With Gray's serenely strolling bass anchoring Kotche's shimmering, melodic vibraphone, tracks like \"Hikali\" and \"Taisho\" can be as tranquil as doing a little nightfishing in your neighbor's koi pond using a set of glowinthedark chopsticks. And invariably each of these songs reach a point where gravity fails and their various pixels can no longer hold together, so maybe you'll decide to just settle right into the pond to enjoy an extended float, with the fish generally wellbehaved and nibbling on you only occasionally. On shorter tracks like \"Showa\" and \"Asagi\", On Fillmore sound slightly more conventional their gauzy, pincushion melodies sounding something like miniature versions of Tortoise's gamelaninspired tapestries. And on the closing \"Doitsu\" they initially slide into a sleek uptown jazz lope, before the song's swirling doublehelix structure gradually dissolves into chiming hiss and static, and this beguiling apparition of an album is appropriately permitted to exit with a whisper. "}