{"label":" Kill the DJ","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6022/homepage_large.67a7477f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Optimo","title":"How to Kill the DJ [Part Two]","text":" It's considered an unassailable virtue to have eclectic taste in music. That's how most everyone likes to think of himself, as the person who likes a bit of everything (the good parts, presumably) and subconsciously understands musical connections that extend beyond the boundaries of genre, scene, or geography. The appeal is demonstrated in the story of early hiphop, which as it's usually told is the story of DJs who would throw on whatever rocked the party, be it Aerosmith, Chic, or some uptight German dudes obsessed with robots who happened to be so stiff they were funky. This mythical late 70s/early 80s period can be seen as the DJ's Garden of Eden before the Fall (before serious money became involved, I guess), to which so many yearn to return. In practice, though, eclecticism in a DJ mix isn't always all its cracked up to be. If you've ever actually played music for a crowd of people gathered to have a good time to your selections, you know most of them aren't at all interested in the wild and crazy shit in your crate. One indulgent misstep and the dancers disappear faster than if someone lit a stinkbomb in the center of the floor. Most people who go out want to dance and feel good to something familiar, so club nights are accordingly designed to let them know what they're in for. Ultimately, the thing about the eclectic DJ set is that's it's really, really difficult to pull off. Without the parameters of a microscene to guide you, the DJ has to know his records backward and forward to understand how pieces cut from different saws might snap together. When it works, though, it's something. On the evidence of their first official mix CD, JD Twitch and JG Wilkes who since 1997 have been the resident DJs at the Glasgow club Optimo (Espacio) do diversity beautifully.How to Kill the DJ [Part Two] the sequel to Ivan Smagghe's excellent 2003 Tigersushi release is actually a twodisc set, with the first given over to a mashedup approximation of the what the club sounds like in full swing, and the second containing 18 tracks representing what might play as people are filing in. This 75minute continuous mix is a miracle of licensing, with 42 indexed tracks from 50+ artists, including big names like Love, Suicide, and Gang of Four, and many lesserknowns familiar primarily to followers of a specific scene (Ricardo Villalobos, Loose Joints, Akufen). On paper it looks like an ADHD sort of mix, with many selections lasting only for 30 seconds or so, but the Optimo DJs generally keep the transitions smooth and have an uncanny knack for building bridges between disparate sounds. Keep an eye on the CD player and it's often surprising when one track ends and another begins. How to Kill the DJ is a true collage, where the tiniest musical fragment has a job to do. So the seven seconds of Basic Channel's \"Phylyps Track 2\" solo exists to connect the throbbing techno of Luciano and Quenum's \"Orange Mistake\" to the industrial synth pop of Crash Course in Science's early 80s track \"Flying Turns\", which then leads to a brief snippet of the Revolting Cocks' heavy \"On Fire\" and then the Superpitcher Schaffel mix of the Quarks' gothic/sleaze \"I Walk\". With all the uberhip records flying around How to Kill the DJ never feels analytical or showy. So even when the preteens from the Langley Schools Music Project show up to do \"Good Vibrations\" in the middle of the CD, which would normally seem a guaranteed vibekiller, the indulgent gesture feels earned. Besides, it's Twitch's set closer before he gives the decks up to Wilkes, and when the latter starts his set off with the insanely danceable D.C. gogo of \"The Word\" by the Junkyard Band, all is forgiven. If the first CD is an approximation of a club mix, the second comes across simply as a mix CD, the kind you or I might make for a friend. No themes are overt connections, just 18 tracks of music that hang together. Angelo Badalamenti's gorgeous and unsettling theme for Mullholland Drive opens, other highlights include Arthur Russell's \"Another Thought\", Lee Hazelwood and Nancy Sinatra's spooky \"Some Velvet Morning\", Sun City Girls' \"Opium Den\", and Os Mutantes' \"A Minha Menina\". It's a record collector's mix, no question, filled with tracks that have all been labeled \"cool\" at some point. But as a collection of good songs that sound great together on one CD, it's a convincing argument for the power of good taste. Combine that taste with skilled editing and you've every right to be as eclectic as you want to be. "}