{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6029/homepage_large.c09dead9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Orthrelm","title":"OV","text":" Orthrelm's OV consists of patterns laid across a giant, horizontal canvas, one after another. Each pattern (or algorithm or gestalt, to use academic terms often applied to minimalist artwork) is small perhaps the size of your average metal riff and is selfcontained. That is, each one relates to nothing outside of itself, and works through a \"predictably terminating\" process before moving on to the next. Which is still to say, OV is both a blueprint and the final result of a pretty amazing idea: hardcore minimalism in a rock context. Hardcore? Minimalism? This record, which could almost as easily be communicated via a series of 8x10inch grids containing tiny, elaborate arrangements of points and lines, crosses a whole range of \"high art\" concepts. In fact, its \"rock context\" is more dubious than its artsy conceits, raising the question of whether electric guitars have to signify rock, or are capable of something else. Indeed, OV is something else. In any case, isn't minimalism is supposed to be dead? That's what any art critic worth his pretension will tell you and has, on and off, for about 35 years despite the fact its remnants can be seen in almost every strand of art henceforth. Minimalist visual art happened as a result of simultaneous decisions made in the late 1950s by several young (and almost exclusively white male American) artists reacting against the wildly subjective Abstract Expressionist movement. Abstract expressionist artists like Jackson Pollack were about capturing personal experience or emotion in the purest, visceral sense. That's all well and good and sort of punk when you think about it but when Mark Rothko and Barnett Newman came along and did the same with broad planes of color and precisely defined geometrical shapes, it started to seem less a quasianarchic roar of purpose, and more a quasiformalist one. So, rather than put forth subjective statements, the successive generation of artists aimed to produce art as object in and of itself, more apt to use mathematical formulas than emotional drive to create their works. This could manifest itself in anything from Sol Le Witt's mathgenerated sculptures, to Jo Baer's monochrome canvaswork to Dan Flavin's arrangement of neon lights on museum walls. There was a concurrent \"movement\" in classical music towards minimalism, though unlike in the visual art critical establishment, nobody really made an effort to brand it as such. In the early 60s, La Monte Young, described by Brian Eno as the \"grandfather of us all\", was writing really slow, really lengthy pieces of chamber music in the serialist tradition (then the dominant strain of modern classical music, serialism is the organization of notes, rhythms, and other musical elements according to numerical formulae) perhaps the musical equivalent of painter Robert Ryman's General series of pure white paintings. Young soon moved to working with sine waves and drone performances that could last for days, or longer. However, you can't really release an LP of a weeklong performance, and a more popular, compact strain of minimalism was port forth by Terry Riley, who used tape loops and delay to concoct sprawling, repetitive soundscapes. He completed the landmark In C in 1964, whose concepts led directly to a whole school of repetitionbased music from which Steve Reich and Philip Glass (not to mention Neu! and Can) made a killing. Until now, I would never have thought to compare Orthrelm to those musicians. The Washington D.C.based duo's previous albums including an almost inhumanly fragmented, 99track EP (!) Asristir Vieldriox from 2002 were models of monolithic nonrepetition. Guitarist Mick Barr (formerly of CromTech) and drummer Josh Blair (also of mathjazzers ABCs) specialized in music obviously rooted in metal, but performed as a steady string of ultraspeed riffs and brittle patterns, thrown against each other in Pollacklike collage: no clear linear progression, but when viewed from a distance, as technically impressive as it is chaotic. John Zorn's Naked City is a precedent, as Orthrelm recall the intensity of the fastest hardcore punk, and the virtuosity of the goneest conservatory shredders not to mention being pretty light on their feet. However, if you wanted jams with beats and wailing choruses, you were out of luck; the band played alien etudes, but not necessarily \"rawk.\" But if fans were left wanting something easier to tap along with, the band's latest delivers the goods in spades.OV, containing a single 45minute composition, makes as good an introduction to putting oneself into a trance as it does to minimalism or instrumental prog. Although recorded over a period of months, the title piece is presented as a single performance, each segment locking into the next, on and on until everything simply stops. And just as I described Orthrelm's prior releases as monolithic, this one threatens to glaze over the eardrums of anyone not particularly fascinated by the prospect of a metal mosaic, massive in size with attention to minute detail. Yet, it is the attention to detail the baroque refinery of the individual riffs and drum patterns that makes OV more than just an impressive technical feat (or an excruciating bore). As with the additive, metric modulation of Glass (who cribbed his technique from Indian raga) or Reich's rhythmic phasing, Orthrelm somehow makes music more than the sum of its innumerable parts. At the heart of OV are adrenaline and discipline; abandon and meditation. I'm tempted to recommend the album to anyone interested in learning how to meditate; beyond the sheer length and precision of the music, I wonder if Barr and Blair had to put themselves in some kind of Zen state just to record the stuff. As the passages fly by beginning with the pounded tritone introduction, to a diced threenote guitar motive and tomtoms cascade, to sections featuring the thrash of cymbals and highrange dissonance alternating with sections where the drums drop out entirely and guitar lands on sustained, sinelike tones I look for interconnections. Unlike traditionally minimalist music, OV's structure follows an \"A to B to C\" path, rather than the less intrusive (but arguably more subtle) \"A1 to A2 to A3\" method of Glass and Reich. On this record, each pattern takes on its own identity, seemingly unrelated to anything happened before yet, the speed and consistency of attack (Barr's fingers must be robotic) serve to blur the edges of what might otherwise sound disjointed. I'm not sure history's great minimal artists would approve of OV, on the structural grounds I noted above, or due to the fact that Orthrelm's music just seems so, well, big. Of course, Frank Stella's gridlike aluminum paintings were as tall as people, while some of the great singleartist installations of the 60s and 70s could take up entire galleries, so you never know. Ultimately, this record stands as a towering achievement in its own right, regardless the context you visualize. And maybe this many words are overkill for what I'm really trying to say: This is fucking great. "}