{"label":" Kanine","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6032/homepage_large.02d533a2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Oxford Collapse","title":"A Good Ground","text":" Oxford Collapse play rock rife with paradox. Their music makes you want to punch someone, then grab and hug him. It sounds piped straight from bygone airwaves, yet feels new, potent, and very much undeveloped. Most perplexingly, A Good Ground the Brooklyn trio's new fulllength, which retreads a lot of the good ground covered on 2004's Some Wilderness is inconsistent in a strange way: The Collapse trade off between songs in their exciting, fullyformed voice, and happily inconsequential rock by rote. The band often seem shy of their own talents, content to hammer a sloppy backbeat under familiarsounding changes. When this formulaic approach is buttressed by a hook which happens excitingly often the OC are unstoppable, burning up imaginary stages, dominating 80s underground rock retrospectives, and owning the charts 23 years ago. Of the two bands present on A Good Ground, I prefer the one responsible for \"Proofreading\". The guitar has a kinetic, galloping quality not seen since Replacements and Feelies walked the Earth. But while the OC mine the barren lands of Hoboken for archaeological evidence of their ancient heroes, the band have some new millennial fight in them. \"Prop Cars\" is loud, choppy, and desultory in a manner more closely identified with tough dude hardcore than cardiganclad indie rock. All it misses is the outtamyway clarity of a lead melodic line. That's something \"Last American Virgin\" brings, albeit in bass notes. Adam Rizer delivers warm, overanxious basslines that barely appear in the mix, like soap submerged in bathtub water. His line on \"LAV\" is one of this album's best, but what I love most about the song (besides the cowbell) is the ending: Who writes a killer bridge, rife with transitional possibilities, and plays it for eight tooquick measures before pulling the plug? It's such a novice move, it shows enormous maturity. As for the other band, they're for the most part smothered. Opener \"Empty Fields\" means well and is quick enough (1:12) but, sans melodic or structural development, ultimately pointless. A better song to pop the cork with would have been the epic, fadedin \"Last American Virgin\" or the wordless \"Cracks in the Causeway\", whose gentle \"ba di bop di\"s offer a charming howdoyoudo. The only other dud is \"No Great Shakes\", which sounds like an early Bside: muzzled, selfconscious and disappointingly simplistic for a group of rhythmic contortionists. See the lithe, pensive \"The Boys Go Home\" for an antidote.A Good Ground is made for trebly car speakers on latenight drives down empty, lamplit parkways. Or not. Ideal listening contexts are, of course, always subjective, but Oxford Collapse are worth the time it takes to discover one. Folks will kvetch about the washy recording sound and Mike Pace's yelped (and sometimes even yodeled) vocals tasteful affects at the heart of the band's sound. But there's something refreshing about a band as stubborn as Oxford Collapse: sure to be hated on for a handful of abrasive, outmoded stylistic choices, they remain adamant and unswerving. That devotion shines through on this mostly wonderful record. "}