{"label":" Pressure Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6040/homepage_large.3a091978.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Augustus Pablo","title":"In Fine Style: Original Rockers 7\" and 12\" Selection 1973-1979","text":" Of all the people in the world that would intentionally choose a vacation to Jamaica, I never imagined that Mom and Bruce would. But they did go not to Trenchtown, to one of those nice resorts near the Jamaican golf course. Did they have a good time? \"Everyone expects a handout down there, they all want money,\" they laughed. \"'Aye mon,' all holding out their hands, 'Jammin,' mon.'\" Since a request for killer collie from these cultural ambassadors was out of the question, I asked them to bring me back a melodica. I packed her a picture of Augustus Pablo for reference and tried to explain how, using a plastic child's toy, he had produced some of the most beatific breaths ever imbibed by the ears, leading folks as disparate as Tortoise, Damon Albarn, and Pole to send their mums out for one as well. Initial concerns about the interchangeability between tracks faded away as I let this latest culling of rare sides spin, endlessly. Instead I was struck by the truth of possibilities that come to the fore. Put together by the British reggae reissue label Pressure Sounds (also responsible for last year's equally exquisite Pablo set, El Rockers), these side by side tracks showcase the playing of Pablo and a pool of folks like the Barrett Brothers, \"Chinna\" Smith, and Robbie Shakespeare, laying out in consecutive versions a phenomenon that even Shrödinger could get with: each version of a riddim splits into different realities, elucidated on apiece by the players in their dubs. It opens up with five different versions of \"Far East\", done under such interchangeable names as Pablo All Stars and Rockers All Stars. The first one focuses on the melodica, allowing it to move through the brass section laconically. In \"Phillip's Showcase\", the brass head gets dropped soon after the opening, and the pumping organs of bass and drum are revealed in all their pulsing glory; returning later as \"East Man Sound\", there are extra percussive shakes and a quivering keyboard that warps the melody beautifully, leading into even more you guessed it melodica. The fourth version drops in more hihat and cavernous rattles, before cutting into a more HiFi take midway through, weaving another Pablo solo into the expanding guitar and organ. Then there's the stretch of Jah Levi's \"False Rumour\", \"Zambian Style\" by Rockers AllStars, and the \"Rockers Rock (Version)\" by Jah Iny near the end of the disc. The DJ on the first cut is heavily Rastafarian in theme, but his voice gets reverberated on the followup, the rhythm permeating the mix, making everything shake with low frequencies. Everything is tweaked beyond recognition on the last version, as Pablo switches up the bass line, stretches the organ like salty taffy, and has the taperewind run through an evershifting echo that destabilizes their dub into a new element. It's the most overtly weird slice here, the concentration being more on Pablo's touch behind the boards as well as in front of the microphone. But to only view the surface of Pablo's music is to miss out on the fact that beneath the seeming simplicity of three minute instrumentals lies a complex set of relationships, between the drum and bass, the stabs of organ and yardbird guitar, the temporal space between each hit, and how his serpentine lines on melodica and/or organ slide about on waves of probability, leaving ripples in the ether. For its limited scope, this is not a bad souvenir of the man. "}