{"label":" Coming in Second","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6041/homepage_large.8cc7f685.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Pajama Party in a Haunted Hive","title":"Building a Building","text":" Pajama Party in a Haunted Hive must really want me to compare them to Built to Spill. Sure, they'd probably say otherwise if asked flatout, claiming that calling in Doug Martsch to produce their debut wasn't a calculated move to cast themselves as a minorleague BtS. Nevertheless, I see right through their shrewd little scheme; after all, Martsch doesn't even produce his own stuff by himself, presumably leaving much of the knobtwiddling and switchflicking to Northwest mastermind Phil Ek. Furthermore, based on the evidence of Building a Building, it's pretty clear that Martsch is no hotshot Producer Phil behind the boards, be it Ek, Elvrum, or Spector. But the wartsandall approach befits Pajama Party in a Haunted Hive and their rumpled sound. If a Built to Spill comparison must be made (and it must), think the fractured, Pavementish early period rather than the threeguitar nouveau classic rock of Doug's recent works. May the vengeful God of the Old Testament strike me down should I invoke the name of Idaho's finest again, because it's not really fair to the three strapping young lads of Pajama Party. The Jensen brothers and Dan Giberman possess an aboveaverage amount of what we in the biz call 'potential,' and despite its short 26minute length and rough sound, Building a Building shows it. Be it the humble presentation or otherwise, Pajama Party in a Haunted Hive sound their strongest when arrangements are stripped down and taut. Jaunty rockers \"Capitalism's a Fake Smile\" and \"Elevation Map\" showcase the trio's appealingly loose sound, bright guitar and busy drumming skipping along pleasantly beneath singer Elijah Jensen's friendly vocals. Whether sharing the mic with sister Rachael on \"Over\" or highnote straining over simple acoustic accompaniment on \"Silver State,\" Elijah's voice has just the right amount of disregard for traditional pitch to complement the band's slapdash vibe. But Building a Building misfires when the slack atmosphere bleeds over into the songwriting, with the opening \"Oh Yeah!\" and singalong \"The Day She Died\" coming off halfbaked and overly fragmentary. Meanwhile, the album's one attempt at a spacerock guitar epic (aptly named \"Astrological Charts\") doesn't sit as well with the lofi environment created by Martsch, whose overly busy Moog stylings on the song are only a distraction. Despite the occasional wobbly step, though, Building a Building indicates a band with prospects, placing Pajama Party in a Haunted Hive on track to join Modest Mouse and Built to Spill in the northwest region spotlight. Oh shit, wait, that wasn't a comparison, it was just a [zap] aaaaaaaaRRRGGGHHH!!! "}