{"label":" Self-Starter Foundation","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13284/homepage_large.bcf1b443.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Palomar","title":"II","text":" My personal musical continuum allows for widerange emotional expression. On one end of the continuum lies rage; at the other, joy. Everything else from sadness or humor, to apathy or longing falls somewhere between. It is a broad, canyonesque continuum, spanning genres as diverse as black metal, slowcore, spacefunk, postpunk, and many others. But alas, there a few limited avenues of expression which find themselves on an entirely different plane, excluded from this continuum of toleration. One of them is cuteness. Palomar is cute. Not perpetually cute, thank god, but in spurts, Palomar are Nermal to my Garfield almost intolerable, and a major hurdle toward my enjoyment of the album or most adults', for that matter. The basic cuteness construct Palomar employs here is a spin on pop/punk, with a heavy emphasis on the 'pop' part, and the 'spin' displaying all of the symptoms of an indiepolka. The polkaline isn't just a tossoff critique, either; tunes like \"Knockout\" or the beginning of \"Lesion\" had me tasting pierogies. None of this is to say that Palomar aren't talented. Quite the contrary wade your way through the Hello Kitty delivery and you have a good slab of catchy, competent songwriting. One of the band's talents is orchestrating spunky, energetic vocal melodies. It sounds like at least three, if not all four band members, chip in once in a while to sing lead, enrich choruses, add counterpoint, or complete a fourpart harmony. Tonally, the band remains fairly consistent, with trebleheavy bass, two guitars (one with a warm electric tone, the other overdriven), and a nasal vocal lead. The music itself is nowhere near as stagnant as most poppunk, though, as Palomar sensibly modulates tempo and intensity, like on \"Evening Falls at the Buffalo Bar,\" which shifts from a slow, onehorse trot to a fullband gallop. \"Up!,\" featuring two guys from the Strokes (!) on background vocals (not Julian), builds through a standard punk verse to a supercatchy Greaselike theatrical chorus and denouement. Demographics are probably about as much of a concern for Palomar as an arena tour. But supposing this band had thought about demographics, it would be plainly evident that they'd reached some sort of consensus about females under the age of 22. I say this because Palomar plays fun, youthful music the kind of stuff you'd expect your 16yearold girlfriend to put on a summertime mixdisc (your 16yearold girlfriend mine is 17, thanks very much). The youngsters will probably enjoy this record most, but this doesn't mean you won't, too (provided you're over 22). If you have the stomach for a cute, carnivalfun atmosphere, Palomar just may be your very own orgasmic version of WhackAMole. If you don't, then the TiltaWhirl may be a better analogy, with this review playing the part of 'ominous wafting barf aroma.' "}