{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6056/homepage_large.d29cc435.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Daphne Carr","artist":"June Panic","title":"The Silver Sound Sessions EP","text":" How happy was I when I woke up one morning and realized no one cared about Kindercore anymore? College freshmen were now namedropping Saddle Creek and adoring rawdriven honesty over the bravado of Brian Wilson and lateera Beatles. Shiver to think they drew blanks when asked about the relevance of Cornelius or that they didn't ride the Os Mutantes wave all the way to shore. Oh, but I did. Ah, 1997. I was there through it all those incredibly banal Kindercore concept albums about monkeys, forests, pastoral childhood, etc, etc, ad nauseam. Standing tall through the wasteland of incredibly poor album titles, toy percussion and mispronunciations of Moog, I'm admittedly jaded towards anything that smacks of modrevivalist psychpop. Which is why the first skim through June Panic's Silver Sound Sessions was somewhat disconcerting. Initially, the record seems to swell and bubble over with toosincere, sweeping hooks. And then there's the guy's voice: too nasal to be suave, too reaching to qualify as straight pop. The clues momentarily spelt disaster. Elephant 6? The 'Core? No, only your average bedroom artist whose 11year path has occasionally fallen victim to handclaps and silly melodies. That said, June Panic is a great songwriter whose sprawling list of solo records, EPs and compilation appearances have given him time to flesh out his skills and hone his craft. Now, after eight cassettes and three fulllength albums, he comes through with The Silver Sound Sessions. The improvement is dramatic. Several of these songs downright grabbed my hand, went for the manhug and ended up in the full embrace. There are certainly ties to such 'Sixers as Elf Power and Beulah, as well as a little Black Foliageera Olivia Tremor Control (most noticeably on \"The Silver Sound\"), but without the cloying pseudomystical bullshit OTC slathered between tracks on that album. For the most part, Panic muses on the standard pop topics, with emphasis on deceit and lovegonewrong. The guy's obviously not out to change the world or anything in the traditional pop vein, his lyrics rhyme rather than going the reflective, rambling route that's stood for ages as a trademark of selfconsciously \"important\" songwriters. And how about the music? The Silver Sound Sessions is primarily guitardriven, and packed with lazyriver drumming and even the occasional eightbars. Suffice to say, its charm isn't in the techs. \"(Bells) Ring Out the News\" carries a barroom bassline and slithery blues. The opener, \"Travel Time,\" employs a snare backbone and sublayers of horns that lie dormant underneath the track until near the end when they infiltrate and chaotically take over. All told, The Silver Sound Sessions is a pretty solid record coming from a guy with such a history of isolated bedroom emoting. Of course, it's not brilliant by any stretch of the imagination. But if nothing else, it beats Masters of the Hemisphere and the Marshmallow Coast. "}