{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6065/homepage_large.ac56b1b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"PANTHERS","title":"Things Are Strange","text":" Between 2002's Are You Down? and 2003's Let's Get Serious EP, Brooklyn's Panthers really got their shit together. They softened up their heartonsleeve politicoartrock shtick (or at the least drowned it in a miasma of guitar distortion), realized they were better megariffers than melodymakers, and most importantly, told drummer Jeff Salane that Panthers wasn't Orchid, the posthardcore band he also drummed for. These minor adjustments alone made quite a winner out of Let's Get Serious, a record that openly exploited that tender garagerock loophole that allows bands like this to succeed despite asinine lyrics, pisspoor melodies, the works simply because they rock so fucking hard. \"Thank Me with Your Hands\" alone rendered every other misstep they'd taken forgivable. That EP got them off the Dim Mak label and onto the starryeyed Vice roster, but as Things Are Strange suggests, Vice's vote of confidence may have tricked the band into overextending itself to do more than just rock. The album's tracktolength density 9 songs, 50 minutes is the clearest indicator of Panthers' aspirations beyond their MC5'd total energy stooginess. It's a mistake, though: During the half of Things Are Strange in which the band keeps the riffs aplenty, there's another half that Panthers spend deep in the asscrack of uninspired postrock snooze. Leadoff rockers \"Legally Tender\" and \"Theory Is Famous\" follow the band's anticipated trajectory: Guitar and basslines gel into one indistinguishable monolith, further compressing the drums and inning an out door for only the best of frontman Jayson Greene's horkheimered lyrics. \"Give me a book and I'll read the shit out of it,\" will be everyone's favorite quote on Facebook.com any day now. Both songs reach way past the threeminute mark with no problem, a testament mostly to drummer Salane's appropriate and onthedime switchups. The fat but jerky unison breakdown midway through \"Stroke My Genius\" captures Panthers' live energy most vividly, the band then riding out the movement's distorted Brancan overtones into a killer snareonone stomp. But 7minute monsters demand more planning and better melodies for sustenance. All four of Things Are Strange's epic hopefuls from the deathbynapalm spazout that opens the otherwise limpid \"We Are Louder\", to the trickortreat, Murder She Wroteesque ditty \"If You Were Once Young, Rage\", to the less pitiful but still predictable meandering of \"Weird Birds\" fail from destitute melodies lost in a haze of socalled art and supposedly introspective passages. \"What's a riff\" and \"what's a melody\" and even then, \"what's a good melody\" are inevitably personal distinctions, but regardless: the melodies (or whatever) Panthers subjected to their slow broods simply aren't engaging enough on their own to make up for the band's rockout timeout. Perhaps this is telling, but the two best tracks on Things Are Strange are rerecorded cuts from their previous releases. \"Thank Me With Your Hands\" wisely appears again here: Though a smaller aperture of production teases out more detail in the lead guitar line, Greene adds a whimsical falsetto to double the guitar at the end, and for the most part, Panthers play through the song transitions more confidently. \"Walk of Shame\", too, originally released on a late2003 tongueincheek split with fellow Brooklynites Japanther, plays host to the band's most virulent guitar hooks and the album's best preamble Panthers barely hold onto the song's reins, and the effect is just brutal and awesome. But there's a catch: The magic's over in two minutes, and for the next five, Panthers force a build that teases but never fully materializes. The track's lesson suits Things Are Strange as well: Panthers are best rocking us, not impressing us. "}