{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6067/homepage_large.addaea13.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Papa M","title":"Three Songs EP","text":" Runnersup for the Most Confounding Commodification of the horrible events we've come to compartmentalize as \"the events of September 11\": The ubiquitous flag stickers, adorned with weeping airbrushed eagles and monotheistic imperatives; Official Osama Bin Laden Hunting Licenses (bummer, the back says it's fake); Lee Greenwood reissues, with covers featuring the aggressively trimmed Comeback Beard; The commemorative toboggan, stylishly embroidered as if 'Ground Zero' were a video game or brand of muffler; World Trade Center halter tops, on which the towers bend around the contours of the hootchie underneath, confirming architects' notions that the buildings were phallus brothers. And the winner: why, it's the new Papa M EP, Three Songs, packaged in a glossy envelope that sports, as its sole visual, a vivid photograph of the Papa (Dave Pajo), bedheaded and squinting in a wrinkled tshirt on a rooftop, as black plumes billow from the New York skyline in the background. At least one of the towers is still standing. The picture somehow outhaunts most of the straightforward, photojournalistic accounts of that morning and manages to capture how we floundered to process its reality by relishing its surreality (people agree with you if you compare 911 to movies, but accuse you of spouting geopolitical hoohah if you NoamPompskyly address it as a karmic reaping of seeds sown in Nicaragua, Beirut, Turkey, and Sudan). For starters, the Three Songs cover shot is circular, with blurred edges, as if a view from some vindictive witch's crystal ball. Adding to the alchemy is the foregrounded brick cityscape of (Brooklyn? Newark?) tenements, factories, and warehouses leading up to Manhattan's smoking glass and steel. The picture serves as a timelapse crosssection of the Industrial Revolution that offers a glimpse of an igneous, purgative devolution. Then there's Papa Pajo, looking like a bored suburban kid dragged out of his carnap at Old Faithful, happy to not comprehend the significance of what's behind him. Or is Pajo mediating the moment, like an onscene anchorman, or worse, like the yammering host of an \"America's Wildest Car Chases\"? Surely no one involved simply had album cover art in mind? The photo inspires as much outrage and empathy as the moment when the attackers turned the rest of the world into an observation deck. Oh yeah, there's a nifty CD inside, for which the cover functions as a portentous and schlocky epigraph, like the quotes from the Book of Revelation that open cheesy horror movies. (And hey, for all you amateur numerologists and Nostradames out there, this EP's length is 18 minutes, the sum of the digits of the number of the beast!) Pajo's Mcentric projects were instrumental affairs until he covered one of the Misfits' most cartoonishly brutal classics back in 1998, and since then he's recast songs by Daniel Johnston, Cat Stevens, and Bob Dylan with a plaintive starkness that's earned him an esteemed berth in Drag City's hierarchy of glorious, mopey balladeers. Many figgered Pajo to be slumming in the world of porchplink, since his indierock resume overqualified him for just about every other genre including whatever genre Billy Corgan recruited Pajo's skills for as part of his new project, Zwan. But Pajo's done a bangup job of paralleling the constipateddiarrhea career arcs of Bonnie Billy Oldham and Smog, releasing 25 short gems (13 singles, 12 compilation appearances) on labels with varying levels of slippery distribution. It's their world; we just shop in it. Pajo's image as a bandmember is that of a renaissance ogre, lurking in the charismatic shadows of other frontmen. And even on his own, he's got a kind of inverse charisma, a Travis Bickle tincture that he finally allows to blossom on \"Rainbow of Gloom,\" quoting Taxi Driver's sentiments about rain washing away the scum. This song and \"Lo the Rose Cease to Bloom\" only involve a harmonica, guitar and keyboard, but they're as engrossing as any of Pajo's more layered soundscapes, as the lyrics bang archetypal Irish folk syntax up against posteverything ennui with a dollop of transcendent carnality. Bookended between these affecting slowburners, the rousing and anthemic \"O Kentucky\" stands out like the black Ghostbuster; the song is all buildup, as soft drums referee a wholesome piano riff's unfair fight against an obtusely Skynyrdian axe.  Like his picture on the cover, Pajo's songs make you wonder: is he this forlorn? Or just hung over? Could he be smirking? This isn't the first time he's invoked tragedy the Aerial M album's liner notes credit its genesis to a great flood that year, and that record was a statementless chunk of atmospheric trigpop that seemed designed to be played before shows to stump insecure completists. The whole mystery's enough to make me want to drop the detached/savvy pose and admit that I love America and this EP, even though its odd case sticks out in my CD collection like a Collateral Damage ticket stub. I need to confess that I drink beer and cry to these songs. Okay, I cry to them sober. Okay, I pretend that Armageddon has broken out, and that we're all doomed, and I fill a plastic kiddie pool with Wendy's Frosty dairy desserts, and blast Papa M. "}