{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6068/homepage_large.76e01417.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Papa M","title":"Songs of Mac EP","text":" Being a music fanatic can shock the demonheck out of anybody with a tendency to get too settled. My sphere of approval lodges in a nifty rut, and then the universe smacks me down. I heard \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\" booming from a Hooters patio this week and dryheaved all the way home. A bouncer forcibly ejected me and my rowdy crew from a mosh pit after Hank Williams III allowed his performance to plummet from the heights of western swing into the basin of bootleg Panteradom. The best hiphop is continuing to shed the worst hiphop's old materialist and selfassured skin, fermenting into a legitimate source of new kinds of information (perhaps this phenom is a reaction to the turnbacktheclockness of having Bush Jr hogging the free world's mic). And don't get me started on those songblending glitch artists, because Nurse Swanson's itching to double my meds at the slightest sign of agitation. What I'm saying is: musicgeekdom of late requires Promethean elasticity. People are either becoming allapproving recordstore globalists, or they're splitting into camps. A few days ago, some folks bailed from the Will Oldham listserv because they realized that electronic music now dominates their tastes, and that they're no longer excited by the predictable Drag City/altcountry banter. What I'm saying is: Dave Pajo's Papa M career is a daggum security blanket for anyone whose faith in minimalist mopeyness has been shaken by the current trend toward amplitude and velocity (be it blasting from a sixstring or a drum machine). Songs of Mac an album of renditions of lyrics by unknowns Aubrey Rozier and Mac Finley wears its lethargy on its sleeve, giddily approaching a style so airy and simple that it could be labeled 'nocore'. As if acknowledging that the emptinesses between stars are the biggest in the universe, Pajo shrugs off his resume's density (Slint, Tortoise, the forthcoming Zwan) and embraces his lean years as Oldham's waltzhappy copilot. And let's face it, you and I, Oldham's grubby digits are all over Pajo's vocal output. The Bonnie slut either sings backup, or the songs reek of his skeetergothic early days the arrangements are spookily similar (and understandably so, since Pajo was Will's offensive coordinator back in the day). This EP's \"The Person and The Skeleton,\" with its elliptical bassline, could be an ethereal outtake from Arise, Therefore, even though the tenderly plodding piano is subGrubbs as far as dissonant transitions are concerned. The song slithers into your psyche with the aid of a backwards loop of weirdness and a droning, digital cricket racket. Then, just when the surreal imagery threatens to implode the thing, the song chokes on what sounds like a ringtone at the eightminute mark. Beware the trancefactor: a friend and I drove to Astoria, Oregon to this song (hell yeah, where Goonies was filmed) and almost lulled our compact car off a ravine. \"So Warped\" is a different kind of dirge altogether the rare downer that transfixes and inspires, to which you could jog around town and see slomo layers of meaning in the hohum machinations of mail carriers. If you've ever been pinned on a precipice between two attentive humans, neither of which were essential, then you'll love spending six minutes with the alienated speaker of lines such as these: \"One's got my mind my and one's got my soul/ But I can't tell either of them anything I know.\" And as long as you aren't bothered by how this song is almost a chordforchord double of Smog's \"Jar of Sand\" (from the 'Neath the Puke Tree EP), you'll find that a hearty dose of desolate, uncomplicated rue can still swat the gnats away from your life's dirty bowl of cornbreadandmilk. "}