{"label":" Melankolic","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6083/homepage_large.7c70d2d4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jascha Hoffman","artist":"Lewis Parker","title":"It's All Happening Now","text":" This is a bad week for Tony Blair. With his continuing commitment to a war only a third of his citizens support, Blair's political future, and even his job, has been called into question. Whether he started out as a UNminded liberal or a militant interventionist, his credibility from here is in serious disrepair. As poodle in the lap of a unilateral and preemptive Texan, he must have some doubts about which side of \"with us or against us\" he really wanted to be on. And if they're pumping music into the doghouse, you can bet he's rocking himself to sleep to the freeform aural assaults of Lewis Parker. It seems like hiphop is not yet as thoroughly marketdriven and overexposed in Britain as it has been in the U.S. for quite some time, so there aren't many alternatives to doing it for the love over there. Lewis Parker is no exception. In 1998 he earned a lasting place in the Brithop pantheon with his dark, autumnal Masquerades and Silhouettes album, but then dropped off the face of the island silent but for a few compilation appearances and collaborations. Friendlier than a Braintax, but far more serious than The Aspects, Lewis Parker can battle with a neutral mask, but seems to draw on an undercurrent of wellconsidered rage. In contrast to Massive Attack, whose Melankolic label has released this new album, Parker seems to be comfortable taking the time to exact genius from himself. As one British reviewer put it, \"Although heads have run out of saliva waiting for it, there is more than enough [material] here to get them moist again.\" If It's All Happening Now is any indication, Lewis has, these past five years, been chilling in his bedroom with the sequencer going and freestyling about his day. His blunt, precise sense of rhythm and natural rhymes glue together what might seem like somewhat loose themes on the lips of a less confident rapper. The minimal song structures, with just enough hook to pull themselves out of the frame for another impulsive verse, make for a sequence of tight threeminute tracks that can seem almost endless. With dropins by a dizzying array of pouting UK emcees, it feels like one marathon South London basement session. Guests include Apollo, Jhest and Supa T, who with Parker make up the Cloudsteppers Federation, formerly Champions of Nature. Says member Dolo: \"The story behind the Champions of Nature is that we were all in a freakshow... but we escaped after realizing that music was the only way to go forward.\" Someone has since offered them jobs as knifethrowers' assistants. As relentless as the lyrics are, this album would be nothing without the straightlaced beats that drive every single track deep into its own future, like the best early Atmosphere did. Although the lack of production credits makes me nervous about leaving someone out, it's safe to say that Lewis Parker delivers the whole beatsandrhymes package all of a piece there's only one sensibility at work here. On \"Mum's the Word\", Parker's homage to cratedigging, guitar octaves bloom in the grainy middle distance, like oily pastels on delivery paper. On a few tracks, unnatural brass and string crescendos push and pull at the waist of whoever's got the mike at the moment. Shit, even the thirtysecond interludes leave me panting. The kicks are always electrically present, acting more like a catalyst than a foundation for the rhythmic superstructure. And then there are the snares: vineripened in Sicily, drugged and bludgeoned in Manchester, marinated in Marseilles, and served raw in a pool of their own expansion in the comfort of your very own head. In the words of that same wise British reviewer, \"They are lovely and crusty, there is nothing wrong with that.\" After my first few listens to It's All Happening Now, I found myself ignoring the lyrics and wanting to live inside the beats. But I'm not pining for the instrumental version. Lewis Parker's lyrics are like a sandblast giving a smooth polish to the sweet jaggedness below. Or just noise on the surface of a single vivid walking meditation. "}