{"label":" Ape","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6095/homepage_large.c22b1f8a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Andy Partridge","title":"Fuzzy Warbles Volumes 3 & 4","text":" Here we go again, just like we did last summer. Just like we did all those years ago. Step aboard, and be shown a grand old time amongst all this livedin luxury and secondhand splendor. Astroboys and girls, it's time for a hit parade of Andy Partridge's old junk and you can't get this stuff just anywhere (or so the old marketing slogan goes). Each piece of secret fruit, bursting with stale hope and forgotten promise, is a specimen of unique gemcraft lovingly assembled by your favorite lonely toy soldier enthusiast behind the curtain. Where in dog's green girth could you plunder such willing treasures? Sit back and be swept up and under the buzzing thunder, up inside your mum's weeping underskirt: Ba pa pa pa pa p no. This must end now. XTC's bitter half has reeled in this cold fish four times. I admit it: after years of compulsive Partridge purchasing, all the smart money was on me buying his latest collection of demos and throwaways, despite being a little underwhelmed by last year's inaugural volumes. You'd think I'd have learned my lesson by now. Still, it's hard to root against guys like him making a pound or two at my expense in the back of mind, maybe I'm thinking he'll put some of the surplus towards, oh I don't know, making a new record one day. And speaking of marketing slogans, any good merchant knows that a bad customer will spill their fury for every one lucky friend of the Swindon4Life Disciple. In other words, I'll keep buying your stuff, Andy, but I'm gonna tell everyone about it. Just to show that my thinlyveiled agenda hasn't completely ruined my ability to think critically, I'll point out all the stuff that totally sucks first I figure it's only fair. Exhibit 1(a)(i): Partridge demonstrates his penchant for lamerthanthou, winkwink, ain'tItheDickens, \"Holy Partidge, it's a genre sendup!\" with the yellow subThat Thing You Do BritInvaded tripe that is \"My Train is Coming\". Goofy 7th chords? Check. Harmonica and cowbell? 30love. Textbook middle eight? Advantage hyuck. And for all of the tune's obvious moves, it's actually Partidge's inability to muster any kind of raucous, early Lennon (or McCartney for that matter) larynx tearing soul that made all those preRubber Soul hits so great. In short, our man at Ape is just no good at rock. It turns out he's no good at Chinese disco either, as the bedroom Casio adventures of \"You Like Me?\" reveal. It starts innocently enough with bells and fake Asian strings, like those you might hear in a car commercial aimed at yuppies that still think you have to be multiculturally aware to hide your inherently nerdy tendencies. Then he gets PBS on your ass. When the beat drops I guess it's supposed to be a dance beat of some kind it feels more like it's out to support visuals of fluorescent kites and preschoolers running after butterflies, all computer animated circa 1987. At least Newton's Apple had Kraftwerk! Still, nothing compares to the devastating horror of his stab at hiphop on Volume 4's \"Zonked Right Out on Life\". Partridge's thoughts on this particular songstyling expedition: \"As in most rap, the 'c' is silent.\" Don't believe the hype, A. Actually, in this case, believe the shit out of it. I haven't even gotten to the actual throwaways: \"Tunes\" and \"I'm Playing My Fano\" manage to avoid the lowest depths of indifference merely by beating the clock. That's more than I can say for the handful of XTC demos included on these volumes. Last year's Coat of Many Cupboards presented the band's ugly underneath in a fashion humble and more than a tad endearing. However, I'd also argue it should have been the final word on demos of previously released stuff from them by this point, Partridge is running out of decent versions of his tunes to release, and I'm running out of patience with his faith in my compulsive buying habits. No sir, I simply don't need flat, out of tune renditions of \"Great Fire\" or \"That's Really Super, Supergirl\". The worst part just as with the first two volumes in this series is there are a few good songs buried in the mix. On Volume 3, Partridge wisely follows up \"My Train is Coming\" with the entirely fresh \"Lightheaded\", sounding every bit the sprightly, digital age piece of psychedelic candy he should be blessing us with fulltime. Likewise, the hazy, almost offkilter, poppy seedling \"Blue Beret\" is a slap in the face to anyone who thought XTC's Oranges & Lemons was too adultcontemporary. Here, Partridge makes a case that he does the White Album better than a Magical Mystery Tour, as he further proves on the dense, chugging \"This is the End\". That tune was originally meant to close Oranges & Lemons, but was scrapped when our hero realized Cookie Monster beat him to the chord progression. That might've stopped some people from releasing it entirely, but such is the persistence of the P. These multivolume demo collections are made for fans only, and dear fan, you must be very, very serious in order to get enthused about most of the music contained here. Truthfully, I doubt I could make a decent halfhour mix out of listenable tunes from this pair. If they'd come from anyone else, I wouldn't think twice about selling them back instantly. Fellow Partridge disciples, don't give up the fight surely, he'll return to save us from a world where the soundtrack from Punch Drunk Love is the best thing going for eccentric anglophiles. Surely he will. Right? "}