{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/618/homepage_large.5b71588c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Beck","title":"Guerolito","text":" Beck's eyes are preternaturally blue, and until recently, exactly what lay behind them was something of an enigma. Whether clowning in videos, spontaneously breakdancing at awards shows, or just gazing ahead on his album covers, the junkyard boho was always looking beyond, seemingly into a bizarre realm unhindered by genre or behavioral expectations. But lately, he just looks lost. Wandering down a gimmicky path lined with empty popup confections in the \"Girl\" video, the 35yearold dad with bad hair found himself relegated to the role of passerby. More than ever, 2005 saw Beck losing his edge. So, on this take two, he embraces the talent and ideas of contemporaries and descendants alike (all of whom, I'm sure, are really, really nice), hoping for a little friendly friction. Much like its inconsistent source material, Guerolito emits a few flashes but lacks the cohesiveness that was once this innovator's hallmark. Possibly a sign of selfconscious secondguessing, Beck began to commission new mixes for Guero early on. Oddly, the lofi blip GameBoy Variations EP, featuring remixes for four of the album's songs, was thrown up online a full two months before Guero's official release. Then, over the course of the year, about a halfdozen more trickled out. Wisely, not all of these previously released alternates including lazy efforts from Dizzee Rascal and Röyksopp are included here. All in all, nine of Guerolito's 14 tracks are new, which, along with fresh artwork courtesy of surrealist Guero cover illustrator Marcel Dzama, and a trackfortrack sequencing, indicates the intention of a true remix album rather than just another careless fourthquarter hodgepodge chching. While such efforts are duly noted, the barebones liners and widely varying quality of these retries make Guerolito better suited for iTunes cherrypicking than fullon Amazon consumption. Several tracks equal or trump their initial incarnations by emphasizing pluses and playing into their remixers' entrenched strengths. Both Boards of Canada and Air are wonderfully typecast; the former's take on \"Broken Drum\" highlights Beck's Sea Changey lonesome vocals with apropos amble ambience while the latter's \"Missing\" redux, \"Heaven Hammer\", boosts sexychurch synths, echoing drums, and everything else you'd expect from France's finest purveyors of cheesycool. The new \"Scarecrow\", courtesy of ElP, is a marked improvement on its predecessor, with the hiphop producer's succinct drums and keyboard stabs giving the song a newfound strut. Meanwhile, golden boy Diplo reiterates his current crateking status by slowing down the staccato bass backbone of the English Beat's \"Twist and Crawl\" to provide his \"Go It Alone\" redo with a stealth funk. Alas, many other attempts fall flat due to weak, repetitive arrangements, or an inability to convincingly congeal with their forebears. The worst offender is nerd rap group Subtle, whose lumbering \"Farewell Ride\" won't entice anybody to grab onto the Anticon trolley anytime soon. (I hope.) Two exUnicorn projects are represented, and neither clicks, though for different reasons; Islands' Unilite twee instrumentation sounds woefully out of place when meshed with Beck's East L.A. nonsequiturs on \"Que Onda Guero\" (not to mention the illfated, halfassed screwed 'n' chopped bit), while Th' Corn Gangg's electro R2D2 spin on \"Emergency Exit\" takes too long to climax with its dense thump and cutup vox. And just when you thought the Beasties couldn't get more annoying, Adrock comes along with his throwback minimalistclang take on \"Black Tambourine\" featuring enough repeating \"ugh!\" and \"what!\" drops to make you want to steamroll your copy of Check Your Head. His fierce glint fading, it's becoming increasingly clear that Beck is no longer able to freely revel in the youthful dalliances that made him famous more than a decade ago. Guerlito's standouts prove that proper taste and a good ear can be just as valuable as songwriting to a multitasker like Beck, but even for an artist this venerable, a remix record is still a remix record generally uneven, part enlightening, and part skippable. "}