{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6133/homepage_large.adb918b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Pele","title":"Enemies","text":" Ahhh, the girls' locker room. The paradise of every teenage boy's imagination, details filled in by dozens of late 70s/early 80s hardR comedies from days when gratuitous nudity was still a treasured cinematic tradition. Oh the sexy, sexy things happening in every girls' locker room, just beyond the furrowed brow of a pubescent male population trying to develop Xray vision. Only the slumber party pillow fight can compete with the girls' locker room showers in evoking imagery that's given rise to a thousand sticky nights. If I'm starting to creep you out a bit (and to tell the truth, I'm starting to creep myself out), it's a reasonable approximation of what I think Pele was going for in claiming that Enemies was recorded in, yep, a girls' locker room. Combined with the unfortunately detailed pencil drawing of the drummer sans garments on his lower half (yes, there is wang), the whole package has a certain sex offender tint to it. Surely, this ploy is intended to counteract the relatively antiseptic nature of the band's chosen genre, instrumental mathrock, whose bands are constantly striving tendons taut, foreheads dotted with sweat to avoid being considered mere background music. Perhaps they thought a dose of sinisterness would give listeners something they could get a firm grip on, but for all the pentup fantasies that fueled this record, Enemies doesn't rise to the occasion. Pele are at their best when their compositions feel like progressions rather than a lot of coolsounding parts somewhat arbitrarily soldered together. \"Safe Dolphin\" has a few dashes of jarring synth thrown in to keep things slightly offbalance, and \"Hospital Sports\" holds its own with mean acoustic/electric guitar interplay. These tracks evolve with admirable patience and a spontaneous feel; if only mathrock fans knew how close some of this material is to that of more accomplished jam bands, they wouldn't be wearing their hornrims so high. Pele are attempting to fight the rut they've start to mine with the addition of a fourth member, suspiciously credited as playing \"computer + tambourines\" (just like Wilco!). Unfortunately, the software isn't for any of them loops or glitches the kids like these days, but rather for determined attempts at texture. Read: incongruous buzzing and cutup radio transmissions inserted all over \"Crisis Win\", and mysterious noises that had my orangealertskittish heart looking for exploding ordinances on my walk to the subway. The original trio tries to keep pace with this new texture, most of which is similar to the majority of processdriven laptopjiggering. \"Safe Dolphin\" is almost done in a couple times by quiet sections where the percussion sounds like somebody kicking a trash bag around, while \"Sepit\" uses similar junkyard effects to annoying result. Transitions like \"Hooves\" an unfortunate misstep into a pile of new age and technical workouts like \"Cooking Light\" (where too many people solo at once) don't help matters. Yet Enemies is a complaisant album; enjoyable, but not to the point of sticking long in one's memory. The biggest criticism I could level against Pele could apply to the whole mathrock genre: With Out Hud's S.T.R.E.E.T. D.A.D. still fresh in the underground hive mind, Enemies feels like an unnecessary step back to the days when indie instrumentals weren't so excitingly infected with the disco virus. Despite the palpable horniness its recording environment inspires, Enemies is, like so much of its brethren, an entirely unsexy affair, and thus a rather sterile listen. "}