{"label":" Tomlab","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6174/homepage_large.e4bf1771.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jascha Hoffman","artist":"The Phenomenological Boys","title":"Melody, Melody, Melody and More Melody","text":" Imagine that your spastic kid brother broke into your stash of uppers, your mother's makeup cabinet, and your grandfather's old 78 collection, and you'll have a sense of the tone this album sets in its first thirty seconds. If you just took the seven impeccably paced collages scattered throughout the disc, you'd have a riveting three minutes. The blaring rhumba outros and ominous brass fanfares seem to be taken from the recurring dream where you're Ricky Ricardo having an acid flashback. The Spike Jones mumbles and hambone ratatattaps, on the other hand, are nightmares drawn from your previous life as a minstrelshow manager. Yes, the interludes are marvelous. But it's the stuff in between all 35:29 of it that confirms my suspicion about an album whose title includes the word \"melody\" more than three times. These people must have something to hide. Let's dispel some rumors. First, The Phenomenological Boys are not boys. The only consistent human presence on the album is a female voice by turns airy, flat and thin; she sounds more like a prissy big sister than a boy genius. And the rest of the production, from the mess of vintage samples to the Casiothin backgrounds, is much too concertedly juvenile to be the product of boyish fantasy. Then there's the issue of phenomenology. The only full sentences in the cutesy liner notes, an impenetrable quote from Husserl, don't really help anything: \"The physical thing belonging to nature, is nothing less than this perceived tree as perceived which, as perceptual sense, inseparably belongs to the perception.\" Giant nerdchic red herring, anyone? Image aside, the Boys' earlyTMBGish songwriting approach, with wacky samples filling out offcolor textures behind loopy folkish hooks, had me expecting so very much. I was grinning widely through the incongruous hash of close croonings, free sax solos, and piercing strings of \"He's So Dumb\", which held out the promise of a melodic pop album composed entirely of mixedandmatched wax. At this point, it's not even clear the vocals haven't also been lifted from some obscure vault, so the shoddy lyrics come off as intriguingly mediocre, although the illusion of foundness is shattered at lines like, \"He thinks that Axl Rose is pit crew deodorant.\" The next track, while disabusing me of the mixandmatch fantasy with a brilliant doowop groove that leans heavily on a tinny little synth pattern, held out some hope yet: at the bridge all sense of meter is lost for good, and as tracks are dropped back in without the slightest regard for synchronicity, it feels like someone is slowly rearranging the features of your best friend's face without telling you what the hell is going on. If Frank Zappa built a great monument to the idiocy of doowop, then with this song The Phenomenological Boys have inadvertently demolished it. I wish I could go on like this. But I'm sorry to report that the rest of the album is as obnoxiously sloppy in songwriting as it is in musicianship and production, in a way that makes the promise of the first two songs seem like nothing but bitter lies. \"Visit to Venus\" really bursts the bubble, as the sense of an everunfolding plunderphonic adventure collapses in on the vapid powderpop sensibility I'd been trying so hard to ignore. \"Yodeling in Heaven\" is a wellexecuted onejoker (\"But before the day came he was swallowed in flames/ 'Twas a chemical spill out on I94\") with the dinky glockenspiel, zippy slide guitar, and pitiful calliope to back up its puny little mockpathos. At this point, the album this could have been is critically injured, if not quite on its deathbed. The next track deals a blunt head wound, and two tracks later, no one in their right mind would even try to check for vital signs. Shame that three wonderful minutes of choice retrocollage had to be ruined by such pigheadedly unmusical excuses for melody. "}