{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6183/homepage_large.b2a37e09.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Phoenix","title":"Live! 30 Days Ago","text":" Contemporary live releases are dogged by the success of modern recording technology, which creates a prototype that's difficult to top onstage. And Phoenix, who thrive in a studio, mistakenly try to raise the intensity and vibrancy of their songs on this perhaps unnecessary live album. \"Funky Squaredance\", replete with Styxsized guitars and synthesizers, gets the arena rock treatment and ends up sounding forced and out of sorts. The sevenminute \"If I Ever Feel Better\" impeccably emulates the studio version until descending into an attempt at Brian Maylike guitar theatrics. Phoenix's song selection is party to blame for the record's failures: Six of the 10 tracks come from Alphabetical, the weaker of their two albums, yet with few exceptions those tracks fall short of their studio counterparts. However, when it comes to a few of the singles, the band knows how to bring it home. \"Too Young\" is one of few Phoenix songs truly made for the stage, with its pounding, scintillating synth and a bubbly Thomas Mars almost raising his voice above speaking level. Guitarist Christian Mazzalai drops the acoustic on \"Everything Is Everything\" for a clean, funky electric, making that nifty jazz progression throb even harder. Aside from these differences, the live versions mostly sound like their originals with an adjusted EQ and crowd sounds randomly interspersed. Mars appears uncomfortable addressing the audience unless to announce a song title or say goodnight, and it's very likely this album was hastily assembled to promote the band before their big U.S. tour. As an already dubious release, the disc lacks cool extras like a bonus DVD, unreleased tracks, or inserts and there are undoubtedly more inspired Phoenix performances than those compiled here. Sadly, like most of today's live records, this one is for fans only. "}