{"label":" Phthalo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6189/homepage_large.6b844497.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Phthalocyanine","title":"Zacks","text":" Dimitri Fergadis, founder of the Los Angelesbased electronic/noise label Phthalo and mastermind behind Phthalocyanine, was the first American artist to be represented on the stellar German experimental label, AMusik. His first single was released on Plug Research, the one American label whose output will soon rival sultanofthe scene, Warp. The microtonal glitch stable, Mille Plateaux, called Fergadis in for remix work on Crank's Wanton Phenomenaand Richie Hawtin's buddy Vapourspace (aka Mark Gage) did the same for his \"Steam\" single. After Planet \\xB5 founder Mike Paradinas called Fergadis \"a genius,\" that label released Phthalocyanine's 25 Tracks Fer 1 Trackalbum. When Fergadis isn't screening his phone calls, he runs his Phthalo imprint, which appears to operate with the same aesthetic and disdain for convention as lofi maverick Mike Newell's cassetteonly Man at the OffLicense label. Quite a few of Phthalo's releases are CDRonly, and the packaging is unequivocally rudimentary. But who gives a gnat's nut when the music is as fucking amazing as this? A clear testament to the quality of the Phthalo label lies with its esteemed roster: Finnish techno maestro Vladislav Delay released material under his Sistol alias; former Strictly Ballroomer Jimmy Tamborello offered his first Dntel albums,  Early Works for Me If It Works for You  and  Something Always Goes Wrong  ; glitch maven Kit Clayton used the imprint as an outlet for his most extreme noise terror joint,  Shortwave Live  . But Fergadis' own releases are far more subdued. Though listeners may initially be distracted, and possibly even phased, by the Merzbowlike distortion Fergadis applies to most of his frantic drum patterns, the four untitled tracks that comprise  Zacks  eventually reveal themselves to be profoundly relaxing. Relaxing, how? I find Fergadis' combining of semimelodious primitive synths (on the second track, they sound especially close to the sounds Aphex used on  Selected Ambient Works 8592  ) and the Elvin Jonesstyle splatterpercussion to be truthful. Truthful? To me most ambient music refuses to grapple with the ambience of existence. Fluffy excursions into panflutes can never acknowledge that our everyday lives are surrounded by dangers whether they be car accidents, a sudden myocardial infarction, or inhaling terroristdeployed biotoxins. For me, Fergadis depicts this reality, but not as a cold reportage. In its own way, his music represents daily hazards, just as Muslimgauze musically engaged in the debate over the future of the Palestinian people. He may not have such an edgy subject, but it's a universal one. The crescendo and decrescendos of  Zacks  ' third track, to me, stand for the successes and failures of existence. Even amidst the most shredding of percussion attacks (most of track four), a precious bentjazz beauty shines through. If you're not prepared to head straight into such a gyre of contrasts, but are interested in investigating Phthalocyanine, I recommend starting with the expanded  Viridian  EP. It's vintage  TriRepetae++  era Autechre dissolved in the hazy ambience of Seefeel's  Polyfusia  miniLP. But regardless of which release you choose, you're guaranteed to catch the first wave of an artist destined for greatness. "}