{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6196/homepage_large.93b6f3c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Piano Magic","title":"Disaffected","text":" Early this year Piano magic released Opencast Heart, a nice foursong EP that found leader Glen Johnson setting his songs in front of a completely electronic backdrop. Following that fruitful experiment Piano Magic return with Disaffected, an overwhelmingly songoriented record built mostly around typical rock band instrumentation. And it's a good one perhaps Piano Magic's strongest full length since Low Birth Weight. Glen Johnson's alwaysmeticulous attention to sonic detail this time focuses on the emotional possibilities of guitar tone. The snarling leads in \"You Can Hear the Room\" allude to that point when the gauzy beauty of shoegaze meets the dropD heft of grunge, and though the lyrics talk about \"the whisper of the pipes\" this is one of the loudest songs Piano Magic has recorded. Another massive guitar swell closes \"Love & Music\", reflecting the song's simple theme (\"love and music 'til I die\") with a sexy wall of trebly chords. Much is made of the influence of the 4AD and Factory labels on Piano Magic, and it's hard to hear the evocative echochamber tone of \"Night of the Hunter\" as anything but channeled Duritti Column. On the simple ballad \"I Must Leave London\" Johnson's acoustic is wet and lush as Hyde Park grass in a November drizzle.Disaffected can fairly be called a rock album, but two of the most interesting songs depart from the template. The title track is the only song with female vox, sung this time by Angèle DavidGillou, and through its main section it weds acoustic guitars to a simple drum machine beat. The fourminute coda, however, allows the electronic percussion to take the lead, as beats grow progressively syncopated and the rest of the music drops out save an occasional vocal sample. Even dancier is \"Deleted Scenes\", which appears halfway through and is then reprised as the record's final track in an extended remix. Possibly Disaffected's best song, \"Deleted Scenes\" is icy new wave with a classicist's reverence for the feel and clarity of the early 80s originals, from Johnson's Bernard Sumner croon to the primitive synths and cheesy (but effective) vocodered chorus refrain. The extended mix is the one to listen for, with a funky electronic drum jam dominating the final three minutes that playfully shuffles the sort of quasiindustrial percussion hits Depeche Mode used in \"People are People\". Interesting thing about Piano Magic is that while the band's overall aesthetic music, lyrics and visual presentation is so well defined and consistent, the actual records are all over the place. We know we're going to get sad introspection, that the songs will take place in winter, that the production will somehow bring to mind the word \"ethereal,\" and the packaging will look good. The details, however, are always up in the air, which possibly explains the band's inconsistency. This time out the pieces land in a satisfying place. "}