{"label":" Arena Rock","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6201/homepage_large.185426fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Pilot to Gunner","title":"Get Saved","text":" Four years ago, I recused myself from reviewing Pilot to Gunner's debut, Games at High Speeds. I was too young too fascinated by the idea that they could cross over during the NYC feeding frenzy and lacked the longview to compensate for those failings. The backstory: In the midtolate 1990s, drummer Kurt Herrman bashed skins for Vermont's favorite heartonsleeve drunks, My Own Sweet; the band peaked at a Some Records (Hot Water Music, Six Going on Seven) CMJ showcase, but naturally, when college ended, everything broke. The band relocated to Boston, never releasing the album they recorded at Fort Apache; I briefly drummed for them once Kurt left for Brooklyn, drawn down to the big shitty by two of Burlington's best: Scott Padden and Pat Hegarty. Within a year they were Pilot to Gunner, strutting with a markedly cockier gait, though their first release Hit the Ground and Hum EP (1999; metoo!) couldn't back up such bravado, beset by some thin ideas. Vocals were a problem from the beginning, but Scott and Pat were open about it: After every show, it was always, \"I'm going to take voice lessons, I'm going to get better at this.\" Their awareness was a huge selling point for me, given the ostentation; socially speaking, we traveled different paths, if we slept on a few of the same floors.Games at High Speeds (Gern Blandsten; 2001) is the fruit of PTG's unrelenting selfcriticism, and remains an overlooked, excellent hard rock record, independently released or otherwise. The album's unapologetic cockrock hooks, sold by so young an act it was a huge shock for me, who thought I knew them, and more importantly knew what to expect from them; I was raised on the same Jawbox/breaker pedigree, after all how did they manage to surprise me? I spent far too many drunken hours belching the record's merits to anyone who'd listen including the band but I did get one good line out of it: \"You guys are the next Def Leppard!\" That's when the night came screeching to a halt.Get Saved is years away from those dizzy days, as overproduced (by Jawbox leader J Robbins) as Games at High Speeds, but for whatever reason, trapped in the haven'tmadeityet void. There's an unexpected dearth of energy here, which may owe to frustration over things not happening nearly as fast as perhaps the band certainly I figured they should. Radioready for years now, PTG are just breaking through to M2level obscurity with a nobudget video for \"Barrio Superstarrio\", the first single from Get Saved (an odd choice it's Pat Hegarty's only lead vocal on the record). Buried in the album's wanting midsection, \"Barrio Superstarrio\" shoulders \"Sorry Names\" a glossier update of Games' excellent \"The Lurid Loop's Dead\" and \"No Blooded\", one of the record's weakest tracks, not at all helped by its similarity to said single. The real tragedies here are \"The Product\" and \"Hot Circuitry\", two superlative songs long available in demo form from the band's website. As is so often the case, they suffer for having been played for too long, and come off as the deflated restaging of the band's best riffrock righthooks. For the uninitiated, there's plenty of clapalong, turnitup headbanging to borrow from the album versions, but seek out the demos especially \"The Product\", whose original incarnation absolutely destroyed.Get Saved does put its best foot forward, leading with its title track, guaranteed to be their next single. Easily Pilot to Gunner's most polished piece of songwriting since their minor college hit \"It's So Good to Be Here in Paris\" (from Games), \"Get Saved\" rips the emotion from emo, striking the perfect balance between DC and AC/DC. Overtly informed by the Foo Fighters, the song's cascading lowend guitar lead pulls the tempo taut, nailed to the floor by the 16thbeat shake of an impossibly appropriate tambourine. Padden bellows, \"Everyone gets saved if you join us,\" and suddenly I'm picturing him in a union jack tanktop all over again. If the studiofrosted version of \"Downstate\" is shamed by its raw inconcert potency (Get Saved doesn't do their live set justice in the least), fineandjagged postemo anthems like \"Metropolitans\" and \"Hey Carrier\" are surefire singalong standards for the denimdecked bikebag set. At their best, Pilot to Gunner construct the sort of slick, verse/chorus/verse rock that captivates young dreamers, and brings a knowing smirk to the older, wiser, and wasted, all wishing they were sweating under the dry ice and strobe lights. The jealous are still fans, and Pilot to Gunner draw them in droves. "}