{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6244/homepage_large.97423b4c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Plaid","title":"Parts in the Post","text":" Based on my limited knowledge of Rolling Stone interviews, musicians are beset by mounds of corrupt execs, massive mergers, treasonous KaZaAcrazy toddlers, and the aesthetic discomfort of the new $20 bill. As if those mattered. All those afflictions were dropped into Malibu and BelAir by the CIA in the mid80s to distract them from the actual problem: Warp Records. When will people learn? Between Autechre and Aphex Twin alone, this simple and poorly worded aphorism should have been memorized by kindergartners: If you have a new song, DO NOT send it to Warp. Wave after wave of demos and masters are quickly deposited in the clammy hands of madmen. If the original artists are a song's parents, Warp remixers are those babysitters with gold eyepatches, tracks down their arms, fumanchus, and babies speared on meat hooks in the basement. Nevertheless, this new doubledisc compilation of virtually every major Plaid remix since 1995 shows that those reliable IDM lobbyists, Ed Handley and Andy Turner, somehow wrangled a whopping eighteen artists into letting them defile, dismantle, deconstruct, and generally destroy every genre from splintering big beat to twinkling Parisian accordion jams. Plaid have always excelled at melding tuneful melodies, ever on the brink of collapse, and the tarry mechanical weight of drumnbass and Detroit techno. This conjunction lends itself extraordinarily well to remixing as it effectively ensures that every track is filled out to its breaking point, balanced between immaterial and immolation. On a song like Reflection's \"Spiral Bits\" or Herbert's \"Foreign Bodies\", the sensation isn't clichéd popping, but volcanic romance: the release of an eruption surrounded by the weightlessness of ash. Witness how Gregory Fleckner Quartet's \"Juicy Jazz Girls\" begins with brilliantly delicate melodies and is eventually subsumed by the scuttling vermin crawling underneath the song's floorboards until, seven minutes later, the melody wreaks havoc on the abrasiveness again. It's dance music that's very, um, intelligent. The version of Dropshadow's \"Disease Fototienda\" is suffused with xylophonic scales, bent mandolins, military snares and sparkling orchestral pop, and bound with Velcro. Plaid replace the sinisterly throbbing undercurrent of Björk's \"All Is Full of Love\" with a heightened fragility, and instate a subliminal scrape on the bass that's even more meditative than the Homogenic version. Unfortunately, this is an exception. The few remixes of more popular artists seem slightly overburdened by the originals. Goldfrapp's own handling of disarming choruses on \"Utopia\" seems to limit Plaid's opportunities. Grandmaster Flash's \"Scorpio\" sounds like a great idea on the tracklist, but neglects the original's playfulness for its own nostalgia. Even worse, it's remarkably monotonous, throwing back to the decrepit second volume of MTV's Amp compilation series. But of the material I take issue with here, the two Nicolette tracks, \"No Government\" and \"Wholesome\", are by far the most disheartening. I have no fear of the ruling elite. My opinion still stands: Nicolette is in a league of intolerability with Breakbeat Era's Leonie Laws or Lamb's Louise Rhodes. And what's really frustrating? They're two of the best tracks on the album, which wins them the dubious distinction of being perhaps the most stunning remixes of atrocious source material since Kruder & Dorfmeister's \"Bug Powder Dust\". \"Wholesome\", in particular, is transformed into one of the best Plaid songs ever, managing to litter pockets of orchestral pop amidst a tense dub, and even finding room for a quick sample of The Meters. Why the hell did they have to put \"Love is wholesome/ Love makes babies\" at the beginning of it? Although Plaid are far from \"difficult\" for their genre, this is perhaps the best place for beginners to set out. The panoply of different moods and tempos is even more diverse than the last major compilation, Trainer, and that album is primed to be one of the best releases of the decade. Plaid has never been boring, but on this album, the jumps from the monstrously webbed and bloating \"Wrong Ways\" and the affecting worldliness of Coba's \"After Dinner\", prove, like Aphex a few months ago, that a musician's finest work does not always need to be their work. "}