{"label":" After Hours","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6265/homepage_large.b01a868e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kyle Reiter","artist":"Plush","title":"Fed","text":" To mangle Mark Twain: Reports of Fed's genius are greatly exaggerated. The proper followup to 1998's More You Becomes You is, at times, a rewarding listen, but often feels like Liam Hayes (Plush's sole member) is trying far too hard to emulate the postproduction pop brilliance of the past instead of focusing on the songs themselves. What made More You Becomes You such a great listen was the intimacy and sparseness of the solo pianoandvocal recording. Any subtlety from those sessions has now evaporated, as Fed takes on a \"more is more\" attitude that only works about half the time. Recorded over two years with five different engineers (including both Steve Albini and John McEntire), you can almost hear Hayes overthinking all aspects of the album. After Drag City pulled out, fearing the impending enormity of his recording bill, Hayes reportedly paid six figures out of his own pocket to finish the album, which seems a misguided choice when you consider it has yet to find domestic distribution (though it has been released on the Japanese After Hours label, with a $25.99 list price here in the U.S.). Fortunately for the listener, however, Hayes tends to be a better songwriter than he is an accountant. At least, sometimes. Certainly, pop music has used orchestration to its fullest potential, but let's not forget that under every Brian Wilson arrangement or George Martin score lurked a great song, only enhanced by the studio. Hayes has enlisted legendary R&B;/soul arranger Tom Tom MMLXXXIV to orchestrate the album, but the score tries to serve as the centerpiece of Fed, and unfortunately, many of the string parts are as pointless as Tom Tom's ridiculous surname. Ultimately, the album fails when weaker songs buckle under the weight of the strings and horns. When Fed works, it works well, and the finer moments sit alongside the brilliance of Randy Newman's 12 Songs or Harry Nilsson's Nilsson Schmilsson, but large chunks of the album quickly become stale due to Hayes' constant efforts to outsmart the listener. Armed with a piano full of deceptive cadences, Fed rarely lets the ears up for air. Flexing a little intellectual musical muscle now and again is what separates true songwriters from those who merely write songs, but after fifty minutes without a hint of humor and few natural resolutions in the music, listening to Fed can be tiring; Plush seems determined to bludgeon anyone within earshot into pretentious submission, and trying to fake out the audience can bore as easily as if you hadn't any tricks to begin with. Plush can write 70s AM Gold with the best of them; \"Greyhound Bus Station\" is easily as good as Looking Glass' \"Brandy\" or Nick Drake's \"Hazy Jane II\", and what makes it easily the standout track is how it proves Hayes can craft a threeminute gem without dressing it up to the point of distraction. Equally compelling is the beautiful \"No Education\", a slow number that begins, \"Never read a book in my life/ But I feel just fine.\" It's postrock ballad heaven from there on out. The title track is a perfect example of how Fed meanders: Clocking in at almost seven minutes, it starts with a soulful midtempo stroll, augmented by a droning hum and punctuating strings. But halfway through the track, Plush turns it into a falsetto ballad that bears no resemblance to the introduction. Which is fine schizophrenia sometimes serves well but with no musical glue holding the parts together, the song turns from epic ballad to aimlessness. \"Fed\" sums up Fed nicely: A good idea gives the illusion of being flushed when really, it's just overdeveloped. Plush's vision was obviously reaching beyond his abilities when making this album, and though that's commendable better to try and fail than not try at all sometimes you acheive less on the road to greatness. I have no doubt Plush is on that road, but it'll be a while before he gets there. "}