{"label":" Sea Note","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6266/homepage_large.88d73fec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Plush","title":"Underfed","text":" After listening to the pleasant but hardly earthshattering pop of Underfed, one would never guess what a Great White Whale these songs have constituted for Liam Hayes. For the better part of the past decade, Hayes has kept busy reworking this material intended for his Plush LP Fed. In his attempts to force the music to meet his exacting and ambitious standards, Hayes has allowed the production to flounder somewhere alongside Chinese Democracy, the Loveless sequel, and Waterworld in the pantheon of seemingly doomed creative projects. As it now stands the album's backstory is arguably more interesting than the music itself. In the mid90s, the lushly orchestrated Fed was conceived to be Plush's debut LP. But after early fullband sessions bore no fruit, Hayes instead released the solo piano album More You Becomes You under the Plush name in 1998; he resumed his work on Fed the following year. As time passed and recording costs began to mount, Drag City backed away from the project, leaving Hayes to reportedly spend more than $100,000 of his own money to pay for a steady succession of studios, engineers, and guest musicians. In 2002, Hayes was finally satisfied enough to allow Fed's release but so far the album has only seen issue in Japan. So now Drag City's Sea Note imprint presents Underfed, a socalled official bootleg version of Fed. Recorded in summer 1999 under the vigilant eyes of Steve Albini and Bob Weston, this early draft of the album features the same songs in the same order as they appear on Fed, but here they are stripped bare of the elaborate arrangements and layers of overdubs that buried them on the final mix. And it must be said (though it probably makes Hayes' pocketbook ache just to think about) that most of the songs sound just as good if not better in this more skeletal format. Perhaps Underfed will ultimately stand as a reminder that an excess of instudio tinkering is just as like to spoil a wellwritten song as it is to perfect it. Even without the extra pounds of strings and horns, the songs here are still quite reasonably fleshed out. (There are certainly many more lofi records in Drag City's back catalog.) Accompanying Hayes' vocals, guitars, and various organs are drummer Liam Murphy and Isotope 217 bassist Matt Lux. At his best, Hayes effortlessly recalls singersongwriters like Harry Nilsson and Todd Rundgren, and throughout Underfed he performs with an amiable, we'llfixthatlater laxity that allows excellent tracks like the opening \"Whose Blues\" or \"Greyhound Bus Station\" to swing more freely than their brassier Fed counterparts. Even by the time of these recordings, however, turgid numbers like \"So Blind\" and \"What'll We Do?\" seem to carry the scars of their difficult birth Hayes' vocals sound sullen and distracted, as though he's already beginning to lose his inspiration in the material. If you've gotten your hands on an imported copy of Fed, it can be fun (well, diverting) to go through and do a trackbytrack comparison with these earlier versions. And though you'll notice that \"Sound of San Francisco\" eventually gained a lovely little Abbey Roadlike intro, and the stuttering funk of \"I've Changed My Number\" is undoubtedly enhanced by the fullhorn treatment, it's also interesting to note how little Hayes altered the basic structures of the songs when he added extra coats of glossy instrumentation. This seems to be an implicit acknowledgement that whatever virtues these songs might possess were already well in place by 1999. Hayes reportedly has plans to return yet again to these songs for another round of remixing before he tries to finally get a completed version of Fed released domestically. Personally, I think he'd be better off burning all the masters, sowing the ground with salt, and walking away with a copy of Underfed as his only souvenir from this whole crazy affair. "}