{"label":" Rocket Girl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6267/homepage_large.48ea99cf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Pluxus","title":"European Onion","text":" Every so often, we music freaks have to fight through some tough aesthetics extremes of noise or kitsch, or eccentric or garblethroated singers. For some of us, just getting into country music was a struggle. But Pluxus is hard to take in a different way: Most of European Onion sounds just like an old video game (say, Super Mario Brothers for the 8bit NES. The bleeps and bips can make this grating, the same way you wouldn't run out to buy a record of traffic noise or alarm clock sounds. If it doesn't bother you, the results can be charming, but don't say you weren't warned. This Swedish fourpiece employs only synths and tinny drum machines, with a couple of vocal snippets thrown in for accent. The beeping, bloopheavy music has a robotic beat and a disturbingly repetitive cheerfulness, as it chirps the same tune over and over. None of the tracks last very long, but just like a video game soundtrack they seem to go on forever, with insistent rhythms and bitmapped, digital rainbow flourishes. Let's say you don't mind that sound. Pluxus are often lumped in with electronica and IDM mainstays, but they call their music \"electronic pop,\" which is a less pretentious and more accurate description. Generally more ornate and less eclectic than their earlier work, European Onion is concise and melodic, with multiple sections weaving together into a marvel of twee songform. \"Rödval, Blåval\" (the opener) and the hyperecstatic \"Agent Tangent\" which toots along like the theme for a marathon run by sixinchtall people are the strongest examples, with infectiously bright, multilayered keyboards far more colorful than you'd expect from such a limited palette. The less piercing tracks \"Dagsmeja\" and \"Moni\" are nice breaks into gentler, more standard IDM modes, switching to softer tones and background synth washes. For all the punchy melodies, Pluxus also try to take a plaintive tone on the somewhat nostalgic \"Igår\" and the truly melancholy \"Molltolerans\". Still, it's about as suspenseful as watching someone else play your favorite game: \"Get the powerup! Jump over those mushrooms save the princess!\" Pluxus are more convincing when upbeat, when you can picture the bunch of them ' huddled around, drunk on technology, hammering out the most nauseatingly chipper music imaginable. They've earned a few extra lives with European Onion, and should advance to more challening boards in the near future. "}