{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6278/homepage_large.65851403.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Pole","title":"Pole","text":" Like anyone else who followed Stefan Betke's Pole through the twists and turns of his glitchy laptop dub sound only to arrive at the charming cul de sac of 2000's Pole 3, I've wondered where Pole would (or could) go next. Betke had seemingly squeezed everything he could from a broken Waldorf filter, hiss, crackles and roomshaking bass (and all things considered he extracted some very good music); his next fulllength record, it seemed, would involve a new direction out of necessity. And so it does. As previewed on two EPs (45/45 and 90/90, the latter being more of a DJ tool with its multiple versions of a single track), Pole has scrubbed up his sound considerably, fleshed out his beats with upfront drums, and opened himself to collaboration. The noise that previously filled the chasms of space all the sonic byproduct that used to all but define him as a producer are essentially gone. In fact, you may not hear a cleaner record this year. As for the collaborators, the most notable addition is backpack rapper Fat Jon, who lends his lyrics and his dispassionate diction to four of the record's nine tracks. Other tracks include acoustic bassist August Engkilde and saxophonist Thomas Haas. Taken together, these changes completely shuffle the deck for Pole. Unfortunately, it doesn't come up aces. Pole has some worrying problems, starting with the tracks featuring Fat Jon. On the one hand, given the sparking minimalism of Pole's new musical direction, Fat Jon seems a logical choice for vocals. His style is equally clear and precise, and he can rap with speed and skillfully navigate complex phrases without losing the rhythm. His lyrical interests tend toward the phenomenological, probing the nature of the way we experience time, love, and struggle, among other concerns, and they are not without insight. But Fat Jon's style is so removed, so focused on the word at the expense of quirkiness or hooks (each of his choruses is just a phrase repeated ad nauseum), his raps just hang there like another element on the Cubase grid. Even allowing for lack of interest and knowledge in underground rap, Fat Jon still strikes me as a rather dull stylist. There is no tension when his voice is set against Pole's beats, and the pairing ends up being too complimentary. Generous collaborator that he is, Betke's backing tracks for Fat Jon are just that, background loops used to support vocalist's ideas in the words. Betke stretches a bit more on Pole's five instrumentals, and in a few of these are seeds for a potentially interesting album. The honking saxophone that Haas adds fills the stainless steel dub of \"Bushes (There is a Secret Behind)\" provides just the sort of tonal contrast that the track needs (it's also the only track with a hint of a crackle). \"Green is Not Green (Yellow)\" also has some of Hass' riffing, this time with Engkile adding some loping upright bass. It's one of the loosest and funkiest Pole tracks extant, and, with its melodica accents, is the most dub selection on Pole by far. I already raved about \"Back Home\" when I talked about the 45/45 EP; suffice to say that it's a glowing surge of joy more nakedly emotional than you imagined a Pole track could be. Pole goes out on a limb on \"Back Home\" and it works; elsewhere, he goes out on a limb and it doesn't. In lieu of a greensleeved Pole 4, we take what we can get. "}