{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6282/homepage_large.0daac5d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Pole","title":"45/45 EP","text":" Berliner Stefan Betke justifiably took some heat for repeating himself after releasing Pole 3. His career in music closely paralleled the ascendancy of the \"glitch\" in the late 90s, and by the time he made his thirdstraight record of crackly, bassdriven ghostdub, people started wondering where he could possibly go next. He sidestepped the issue in 2001 by releasing the underrated and underpromoted R, which compiled some early 12inches with significant remixes and rerecordings of same, including particularly fruitful collaborations with guitarist D. Meteo. These collaborations were key, because they showed that the formerly hermetic Betke was open to trying something new; R was further notable for skimming off some of the sonic fuzz. Betke's label ~scape continued to put out some excellent records, but the question lingered: what would he come with on his next Pole record? Well, 2003 promises to be an interesting year for Stefan Betke. As introduced on the fourtrack 45/45 EP, he's changed his sound considerably. Tired of his own fingerprints indeed, the glitch movement in general this EP almost sounds like a debut from a new artist. Certain distinct Pole elements are intact mantleshaking basslines, dub references (here in the form of melodica leads), a preoccupation with space but the production on these four tracks couldn't be more clean, and the rhythmic inspiration comes from well North of Jamaica. Like it or not, this is a new Pole. And for the most part, I like it. This particular sound is much more welcome than a further refinement of the blue, red, yellow progression would be. Starting off the record, \"Arena\" takes its syncopated rhythm directly from hiphop, and this time the drums are loud and clear as opposed to being hinted at by the use of negative space (the latter was something Betke had a genius for). The Pabloesque melodica figures impart an island ambience and bits of chickenscratch guitar form a pencilthin riff, but the production is brittle and dry, nothing like the reverbheavy syrup dub is usually coated with. \"Round Two\" is a slightly moodier and subtler reshuffling of the same ingredients, with the addition of some bell tones and more familiar Pole chords. \"The Bell\" is a bit of a letdown. Like \"Arena\" and \"Round Two\" it will appear again on the forthcoming Pole fulllength in a vocal version, with some rhymes (!) courtesy of Mush Records emcee Fat Jon, but \"The Bell\" is the only one of the three that sounds incomplete as an instrumental. It is so unbelievably spare, with interesting percussion but almost nothing happening melodically, and it just sort of loops over and over until it's finished. Fortunately, 45/45 ends with \"Back Home\", which is the best thing we've heard from Pole for some time. The track is built around a sparkling surge of digital energy that strikes me as being inspired by ~scape's Jan Jelinek (there's a glow to the chord texture that Jelinek would be proud of), and it also features some funky acoustic bass work by August Engkilde. Betke titled this EP to reflect his shift in direction (a 45degree turn), and that angle might be a bit conservative. You can still tell it's the same guy, but barely, and almost as importantly, 45/45 doesn't sound like anyone else; Pole imitators have become legion, and Betke has signed a few of them. For his own career, this is an interesting first step into new territory, a statement of intent. "}