{"label":" Fading Captain","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6286/homepage_large.f8946643.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Robert Pollard","title":"Motel of Fools","text":" If only someone could be employed to finally, once and for all, separate the lead from the gold in Robert Pollard's body of work, and simply excise the dead weight from the public consciousness. Ahh, but it's a pipe dream; there are more Bob Pollard songs than grains of sand, or stars in the sky. Who has that kind of time? Pollard certainly doesn't he's busy writing all these goddamn songs. Fans have been pleading for years that he use some judgment about what songs deserve to go on his records and stop releasing 18 records a year, to no avail. Simple logic says that it could spark interest in his music again, or produce his best album in years. He has clearly shown, with one or two decent tracks on each release in his Fading Captain series, that he still has it in him to write hooks as strong as those that made his mid90s classics canonical indie releases. Until this happens, his loyal fans are left (yet again) unsatisfied, sitting despondently on the edge of the bed in the Motel of Fools, the sixth tragicomic Pollard solo release. Why is a gentle, shrinking violet like \"Captain Black\" forced to hold hands with the indulgent, incoherent slob \"Red Ink Superman\"? Why is \"The Spanish Hammer\" even permitted in the same area code? Only Bob knows for sure. There are plenty of questions and precious few answers, I'm afraid, as the violent disparity in quality is perhaps more pronounced on this \"miniLP\" than on any of his prior work (and that's really saying something). Motel of Fools is yet another faceoff between songs that by rights should become insticlassics, a couple of cuts that should have gotten Pollard kicked off his own album, and a vast noman'sland in between. In the theme of his other solo albums, Bob takes the opportunity to try his hand with slightly more unconventional (at least in comparison with his normal output) structures and effects. For the most part, these forays into sampling and tape manipulation fail spectacularly, and the two worst offenders are those mentioned above. Only three minutes of worthwhile music inhabit the cavernous 5\\xBDminute span of \"Red Ink Superman\"; the remainder of the void is filled by little more than aimless, disconnected noise that has little or nothing to do with the actual song. \"The Spanish Hammer\" is to be appreciated as an experiment, maybe, but the only result that can be drawn from it is an object lesson in how easily a track can be destroyed by unchecked tape aggression. Viewed as an actual piece of music, it's virtually unlistenable. There's an outside chance I'm expecting too much from Bob, of course his greatest triumphs have been laid at the base of the great Tower of Song, distilled pop anthems of the highest caliber. As such, he's probably still coming to grips with the nuances of \"noise.\" They might fare better in other circumstances, but charitably, they're still monstrously out of place here next to some of the most emotive, understated tunes he's ever penned. Pollard has devoted his considerable pop sensibilities to a few shy numbers, mainly forsaking fistpumping hooks for simple, intimate ballads like \"In the House of Queen Charles Augustus\" and the painfully, beautifully morose \"Saga of the Elk\". Even as \"Harrison Adams\" nearly swells to arenabusting proportions, Pollard's powerfully selfconscious chorus of, \"You're not happy with me,\" brings it back to its emotional center. Simply put, when Pollard gives the knobs a rest on Motel of Fools, he glimpses the same interstellar heights he always does on these releases, hearkening back to the sepiatinged glory days of vintage GBV. Unfortunately, he also reminds us why we all began questioning him in the first place. "}