{"label":" iTunes","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/634/homepage_large.bc3905bb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Belle And Sebastian","title":"If You're Feeling Sinister: Live at the Barbican","text":" In September 1997, Belle & Sebastian made their American live debut by playing a pair of CMJ shows at a synagogue in New York City's East Village. At the time, the band's U.S. debut, If You're Feeling Sinister had been out in the UK for about a year but to American audiences the Scottish group was more rumor than reality. The record was first issued in the U.S. on The Enclave, a Virgin subsidiary that, soon after releasing the record, went bankrupt. The group decided to stop speaking to press, feeling disenchanted with its initial experiences with the music weeklies. Publicity photos featured friends or band members in curious poses their keyboardist doing the ironing, their cellist hiding behind a surgical mask, their bassist crouched over a fallen nun. What's more, the band were often messy live, typically the route for upstarts to connect with couldbe fans. Interminable soundchecks begat shambolic performances, with only the occasional mumble or a few bars of someone else's music to fill frustratingly large gaps between songs. The band members selected the year before to support singer Stuart Murdoch's songs on a potentially oneoff project weren't yet all convinced they were players in a fully functioning combo, and they often performed with what seemed to be a mix of disinterest and ineptitude. Even Murdoch often forgot his own lyrics. True to what was then their form, a performance taped that month for PBS' \"Sessions at West 54th\" was deemed unworthy to broadcast. Despite the roadblocks and stumbles, Sinister along with a series of early EPs made the Scottish group one of the biggest cult bands in indiedom, and almost a decade later it's still considered to be the group's career peak. Murdoch himself he'll now do the occasional interview has often said these are his best songs, recorded poorly. What's more he's right: Twodimensional, limp, distant, often the record's more complex, graceful arrangements are buried under C86quality sound. Perhaps motivated by this longsimmering dissatisfaction with Sinister, the band chose to not only perform it as part of All Tomorrow's Parties Don't Look Back series in which an artist performs its bestloved work live in its entirety but also release the results as an iTunesonly charity record. (All proceeds from the sale of the album will go to the DEC's Asia Quake Appeal.) The irony that Belle and Sebastian would issue a live record in order to correct the fidelity of a studio record must not be lost on either the band or any of its longtime fans. Those introduced to the group on its most recent couple of tours, however, should be familiar with them as a robust, confident collective, with Murdoch and guitarist Stevie Jackson taking turns playing ringleader for an accomplished set of musicians, which on this recording include not only the band's seven members but five additional players. And, appropriately, this LP reflects the current band's confidence, buffering Murdoch's delicate songs about romantic frustration, sexual curiosity, crises of confidence and faith, and existential drift with swelling strings and lilting, airy arrangements. They offer a neardefinitive reading of most of the tracks here, turning what could have been a superfluous record into a tempting first purchase for those curious about the band. The record starts with a whimper, the opening lines of \"The Stars of Track & Field\" rushed and recorded somewhat quietly. The track finds its feet but still limps through the next two minutes, until its first swell reveals the full force of the 12piece band. Mick Cooke's \"They Don't Know\"quoting trumpet solo is as warm as ever but it serves as placesetter to a muscular finale where on record as on almost every track he's featured it's the sonic peak. The tracks best served by the live recording are, perhaps unsurprisingly, those that seem the most slight on record, either because here they punch above the weight of expectations or they were in the most need of a spitshine in the first place. The generationgap \"Me and the Major\", now even more rollicking and playful, features an older Murdoch sounding increasingly confident standing toetotoe with his fellow titular adversary and supposed social bettor. \"Like Dylan in the Movies\" and \"Get Me Away From Here, I'm Dying\" don't leave Murdoch as stranded as they previously did, and yet neither of the simmering dread of the former or the bedsit solitude of the latter is lost without muted backdrops. Most in need of an upgrade was the title track, which should have been Sinister's centerpiece, a song that encapsulated most of Murdoch's pet lyrical themes circa 199697 religion, sex, frustration, and boredom while drawing lines between poor decisions and desperation, doubt and faith, a need for change and a sometimes tragic inability to invest one's energy in selfimprovement. Live, the track had a haunting feel, hovering like sadness and doubt; on record, its barelythere backdrop makes it a mere apparition. The version captured at the Barbican doesn't measure up to some earlier performances (best exemplified by the band's Bowlie Weekender performance), but it takes advantage of the extra players, adding a slight barroom tinge to its second half, giving it a more hopeful reading by offering comfort and company to Murdoch's words rather than leaving them stranded. As the band has changed and years have been placed between these track's first airings and today, they serve not only as a reminder of their durability but their malleability, with the oncequintessential \"The Boy Done Wrong Again\" somehow seeming the most distant and out of place track here the claim that \"All I wanted was to sing the saddest song\" is the antithesis of the happyclappy records B&S; now make. That Jackson and Murdoch, charming and almost vaudevillianlike in recent live shows, are restricted here to trading sideways lines that include a request to \"hang your head in shame and cry your life away\" is almost quaint, an odd reminder that despite the band's former live struggles, it did connect directly and powerfully on latenight BBC radio sessions playing gutwrenchingly sad songs such as this. Odd then that the record closes with \"Judy and the Dream of Horses\", another in a string of tracks about private obsessions and tentative steps toward engaging with one's sexuality. And, yet, unlike most of those that preceded it, it works itself into a gallop, allowing hints of the band's present to mingle with its past some overly enthusiastic harmonizing and an extra coat of paint and \"Judy\" could have fit on the band's most recent LP. While arrangements here are strengthened and the tracks flourish, Murdoch's wallflower lyrics don't hit as hard or close to the heart coming from a live powerhouse than hushed alongside a hastily assembled collection of friends and aquantinces. The quiet, unspoken desperation of the original songs could somehow become lost on the way from being the lastditch work of a late20s underachiever to a flip through the scrapbook of an international indie star, but those worries are swept aside by the pride and tenderness with which the songs are delivered, readings delivered perhaps more casually thanks to the band's success. Whether listeners would take comfort in revisiting this part of their past from the safety of a different decade depends more on the individual than the songs, I imagine, as does whether a oncegalvanizing line like \"Nobody writes them like they used to/ So it might as well be me\" now seems accidentally and unfortunately ironic. "}