{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6294/homepage_large.c67251a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Robert Pollard","title":"From a Compound Eye","text":" GBV librarians can be meticulously taxonomical about Robert Pollard's work so far, splitting his legendary band's run into distinct eras of basement hobby, indie stardom, and mainstream whiffs, but never was there so distinct a demarcation point as 2004's New Year's Eve burial of the Guided by Voices banner. Surely Pollard's decision to retire the name was more than mere paperwork; after all, for at least the past decade, Pollard and GBV were practically synonymous. What message, then, was Bob trying to send with this continuity reset: a signal of impending stylistic change, a shift away from handmedown rock theatrics towards intimate introspection? Or perhaps just fatigue with having his new work constantly measured against the GBV yardstick? Whatever the reason, the retired Pollard is barely distinguishable from the pathologically prolific micswinging frontman we know and love at least in terms of work ethic. Having spent 2005 in what must have been an extremely painful \"hiatus\" (in Pollard terms, defined as only two EPs and a couple of side projects), the first month of 2006 brings the official release of his longsincefinished doubledisc opus From a Compound Eye, declaring the club officially reopened. While the album is hardly Pollard's first Christianname release Fading Captain subscribers know of at least nine others most of his previous solo projects seemed to be little more than songbook dumps for completists. Packed with 26 stylistically and lyrically sprawling songs, it's difficult to excavate any simple proclamations from FaCE's considerable girth. The record's fidelity falls into the midfi range of early and late GBV: clean and balanced one minute, needleinthered the next. Some tracks retain the hitandrun unfinished snippet form of the band's peak; others stretch out past the rarelyreached fiveminute barrier. Thematically, From a Compound Eye is an even more frustrating tangle, spirituality rubbing shoulders with boozy hedonism, ruminations on middleage interrupted by youthful boasting, and selfexamination pitted against extraterrestrial fantasies. Perhaps it's always been this way; like many of his mid90s indie halloffame peers, Pollard has often obfuscated his inner thoughts with nonsequiturs and abstract language. Casting off his bandname and fast approaching his 50th birthday hasn't changed Pollard's approach on this point, though the tone of FaCE exudes a general sense of melancholy he's previously kept mostly hidden, such as when he diluted the divorce laments of Isolation Drills in arenarock trappings. Even the moments of perfect pop one comes to expect from a Pollard album contain unavoidable tinges of sadness: Armchairpsychoanalyze the age difference inherent in \"Dancing Girls and Dancing Men\", or the creepy old man sexboast \"I'm a Widow\". (Chorus: \"I'm a widow and I'm hot to do you.\") All this soulsearching buried, accidental, or otherwise is a welcome respite from the increasingly cartoonish persona Pollard had come to inhabit; I welcomed the end of GBV's run not only for the sake of Bob's liver, but for the sake of his psyche, forced to deal with living up to his superlush image at every performance. So while any musical evolution is nil, save maybe a marginally increased keyboard presence, FaCE still remains the most fascinating Bobproject in years, his approach thankfully free of desires for the radio acceptance and/or underground reacceptance that have marred recent work. Cumbersome as it may be, From a Compound Eye launches a new journey for indierock's preeminent songdispenser, an early indication that Pollard has directed his prolific flow inward. "}