{"label":" Asian Man","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6304/homepage_large.fbab2cff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Hurst","artist":"Polysics","title":"Neu","text":" Hard to believe it's been two years since Polysics unleashed their Stateside debut, Hey! Bob! My Friend!, but their triumphant return couldn't have come at a better time. Released to critical fanfare (particularly from your pals at Pitchfork) but criminally overlooked by the indie masses, Hey! Bob! hit just ahead of the cusp of the 80s resurgence roughly a year before the genres the band holds so dear (newwave, nowave, electro) were embraced by every hipster with a gaggle of Contortions records and a jones for hotpink. A shame, too, as that record's brilliantly unhinged DevoviaJapanoise deconstructionist ditties are still head and shoulders above most of the artpunk flotsam that's been released since. Intent to stay one full step ahead of the rest of the world or more likely just too hyper to sit still Polysics have forged ahead with Neu, now rocking a style one might describe as \"abrasive electronic postpunk.\" The influence of the record's namesake is conspicuously absent this time around (it was only mildly detectable on the last record, with the exception of some distinctly motorik drumming); the band has instead opted to expose more of its nowave roots: Neu hiccups and jerks in a manner more consistent with Polysics' U.S. contemporaries than any of avantprog/psychrock shredders more commonly associated with their homeland. In fact, tracks like the dizzying \"MS17\" and the completely ballistic guitar frenzy of \"Urge On!\" place them in the same ballpark as Williamsburg's current creamofthecrop. More than any other current act, Polysics display not just the desire, but also the deranged nervous energy and raw talent, to inherit the spazrock throne left vacant by 90s Moogcore heroes (and fellow Devo enthusiasts) Brainiac. \"Xct\"'s bizarre synth squiggles, vocoder interjections, and delirious vocalizations conjure the ghost of the dearly departed Timmy Taylor, while \"XRays (This is My Life)\" absolutely nails that familiar Brainiac hipshake groove. But Polysics aren't leaving without turning their own unique signatures into trademarks. \"Making Sense\", all preening vocals and \"You Spin Me Round (Like a Record)\"style synths, is Neu's poppiest highlight: with radioactive blurts and choppy digibeat accents taking its pummeling drum fills and overdriven guitar riffs hostage, it updates and reinvents the brightest moments of the New Romantic era with more charisma and creativity than any club full of electroclashing fashionista goons could ever hope to. And \"What\", the album's sole downtempo track, sits on a laidback groove encrusted with familiar vocodered vocals, providing a brief abeyance from the rest of the album's ravingmad paroxysms. Despite this record's spazcore conviction the antithesis of traditional, hipsterdefined \"cool\" Neu rages and rants in total style. Today's musical climate is far more hospitable toward this kind of rampant, maniacal depravity, and with the album's beefedup, more varied, and generally more rock nature updating Hey! Bob!'s nerdy newwavisms, Polysics are destined for the top of the neonowave heap. Here's hoping Neu won't go unnoticed. "}