{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/638/homepage_large.1c0fa9dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Austin Gaines","artist":"Bellini","title":"Small Stones","text":" Bellini aren't crunk or grime. They aren't on any freakfolk compilations. They aren't the daughters of Sri Lankan rebels, and I doubt they own a Detroit techno 12\" or anything that would have been played at the Paradise Garage. I suppose that makes Bellini just good ol' math rock the mid to late90s kind on Touch and Go and Quarterstick. This figures, as Giovanna Cacciola (vocals) and Agostino Tilotta (Guitar) were in Uzeda, and Alexis Fleisig (drums) was in Girls Against Boys. Bellini's previous album, Snowing Sun, worked thanks to the bionic drumming of Damon Che from Don Cabellero. But then again that was a few years ago, when the world was simpler. It was also prior to the comitragic departure of Che, which would provide tabloidesque fodder for the indie rock world. Today, Bellini sound like...well, Uzeda. Cacciola still takes her English lyrics and morphs them into that of a mourning siren from a Giallo film. Tilotta's guitar work still consists of sharp jabs played at high volume, sounding reminiscent of Shellac. Maybe that's because Steve Albini is still recording Cacciola and Tilotta. The oftforgotten rhythm section of Fleisig and Matthew Taylor both fulfill their job duties and make sure the songs drive forward, without any of the screwing around that was present on Snowing Sun. \"The Buffalo Song\" finds Cacciola yelling over some fine postrock noodling/riffery; Bellini switch it up on \"Not Any Man\" which has Cacciola mellowing out and cooing, \"Say I called you my love\" like a mix of Tara Jane ONeil and PJ Harvey. Bellini move from crescendo to groove in \"The Exact Distance to the Stars\" while Cacciola mixes surrealistic bedroom behavior with existentialism.  All in all, Small Stones is a cohesive album, but its songs just plod down a road that is already heavily trafficked. But then again if you love their style of music, then it's nice to have a band like Bellini that's gonna consistently give you albums of the same quality, even if they only arrive every three years. "}