{"label":" Soft Serve","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6347/homepage_large.c49cdc39.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Poulain","title":"With Fingers Crossed EP","text":" Pleasantly inconsequential indie synth pop in the vein of Stephin Merritt, only more straightforward. Okay, there's the review, can I go now? What? You want more than that? Alright, let's see.With Fingers Crossed is the debut EP by Isaac Lekach, an unassuming Illinois resident who prefers to go by the stage name Poulain. But rather than playing the conventional singer/songwriter troubadour, he surrounds himself with likeminded friends for a fully fleshed indielite sound that carries his sleepy melodies to you on a bed of understated drums and gentle keyboard tones. The aforementioned similarity to Magnetic Fields isn't so much a sonic one as it is atmospheric Poulain's sound is definitely more hifi, despite being recorded in the home of producer/keyboardist Chris Holmes. The four songs here don't display a terrible amount of range, all falling squarely in the midtempo range and consisting of the same instrumentation. Instruments motor along in slavish service to the melodies, taking pains not to distinguish themselves too greatly. Occasionally, backing vocalist Erin Gipson will chime in to support Lekach, but she fits right into the production tapestry like just another line in the plaid. Given that Lekach's mellow, unhurried delivery means that his own voice doesn't really stand out much either, and what the whole EP comes down to is fifteen minutes of pleasant sonic wallpaper. As a lyricist, Lekach is still developing, though there are indications that something better sleeps inside him, as evidenced by lines like, \"I feel like I can do anything tonight, like a fighter jet crossing enemy lines,\" in \"Hollywood.\" By and large, though, he concerns himself less with association and metaphor and more with stargazing nostalgia and romance. Opener \"Red Rover\" reminisces about sitting in a car with a girlfriend, listening to Dark Side of the Moon and gazing at the stars while parked next to a planetarium. \"Every Night Burning Bright\" has the best melody of the bunch, contrasting short, quick phrases with long, drawnout ones for some semblance of catchiness, though it doesn't really stick around long after the song ends. But there are very few legitimate complaints you could level against With Fingers Crossed. None of it's actually bad, but it's not especially good, either. The sameness of each of the songs ultimately damns the EP to being pretty unmemorable, which in turn has damned me to trying to write a lengthy review of something that's pretty easily summed up in a couple of sentences. If there's to be any hope for Poulain in the future, it's going to require, at the least, an injection of variety. "}