{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6354/homepage_large.25565a96.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Prefuse 73","title":"Vocal Studies + Uprock Narratives","text":" Forget subculture, hiphop is its own nation now. And to those who say it's the new rock and roll at least compared to the spineless alternadultery on the radio these days I concur. The hiphop artist is best posed for stardom right now, free to be the mouthpiece of a community or the avatar of a corporate brand. Proof: now rock comes to rap. Jimmy Page and Dave Navarro are Bad Boy Entertainment bitches! Like the nation from which it rises, though, hiphop has a divisive population. Back in the 80s, artists had to stick together to defend against Tipper and the righteous crusade to save America from horny skits and prankster emcees. But the scene grew larger, and then the danger came from within: first from gangster rap's revision of the civil war, east coast to west, then from the luster of the Cristalsipping blingbling. Now, a new threat's come to town. Who is this disrespectful outlaw? One man and his instrumental hiphop album. At least you'd think so, from the biters on the message boards dissing this guy before they've even listened to the album. Prefuse 73 is Atlanta's Scott Herren, also known by his other projects Delarosa and Asora and Savath + Savalas. On Vocal Studies + Uprock Narratives, Herren has stirred controversy with his talent in the studio for sampling raps and turning them into the rhythmic instruments of his songs by chopping, fading and looping. Consequently, the Prefuse project got accused of disrespecting the role of the real MC. Nevermind that the results sound like recordscratching anyway, I can't believe anyone would freak after hearing how incredibly mack this shit sounds. White noise and sketchy DJ patter introduce \"Radio Attack,\" panning from channel to channel like trying to tune in your favorite underground show across the unreliable airwaves. Then the frequency locks in and the groove asserts itself, mixing anthemic keyboards with lofi beats that lock up and reload again, always twice as funky. It's a pocket symphony, and it's only the introduction to the album. But things really get rolling with \"Nuno,\" as female R&B; clips start to dialogue with fragments of male raps. And Herren isn't just interested in juxtaposing samples; the beats thump hard like Mary J. Blige's \"Real Love.\" Herren's love supreme for hiphop unfolds before your ears as you listen to these songs. The sublime basslines and synths call to mind DJ Shadow's Endtroducing... since the two share a devotion to simple, organic development. Don't expect the abstractions into critical theory the title suggests; this is no DJ Spooky thesis. And you won't find any Shadowesque ambient passages, either, because the constant vocal chatter keeps the flow upbeat. Songs develop in a logical progression that still manages to surprise, like Tortoise's \"Djed,\" and as tones shift off into spectrums of chrome and brass you're reminded occasionally of Oval's treatment of those postrockers. With vibraphones ringing and keyboards humming there's also a serious Midnight Maraudersera Tribe Called Quest tip going on. Any remaining doubts about Herren's fealty to the state of hiphop are destroyed when you listen to the vocalists left untouched. MF Doom and Aesop Rock of the Def Jux label maintain the guard on \"Blacklist.\" As a cooljazz period piano tinkles they chide, \"'I can stop any time I want to'/ Famous last words that came back to haunt you/ All your life like permanent dry tears.\" Freestyle Fellowship vet Mikah 9's flow on \"Life/Death\" sounds digitally warped at first until you realize it's just his own arpeggiated delivery. And who's that crooning Maxwellstyle on \"Last Night?\" You wouldn't guess on first listen that it's indiescenester Sam Prekop, but his light touch fits the headnodding groove perfectly. Hesitation makes sense Scott Herren isn't AfricanAmerican. Blacks have been central to the creation of the most unique music of the 20th century, from blues to jazz to rock and roll, and have seen Elvisstyle cultural appropriation in each case. But the skippedandflipped vocal devices Herren makes use of also have a history, from scat to freestyle, and he's paying respect. Repeat: the hiphop nation is not under attack. Prefuse 73 reimagines the genre in a collage of halfremembered rhymes and hazy static, letting us in on a dialogue with his soul. Through his fusion of hiphop and soul music with electronica's current passion for the blip, he's also painted a portrait of the peculiar state of our urbanity. The bomb he's dropped will resonate outwards, hopefully even shaking up P. Diddy a little as he chills in the suburbs, per his recent video, trying like hell to keep it real. "}