{"label":" Rapster / !K7","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6388/homepage_large.c0ffd3fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Princess Superstar","title":"Princess Superstar Is","text":" Princess Superstar is not, as many junketjittery journalists would have you believe, the female Marshall Mathers. Her tongue is far more whiplash, and in terms of panache, she got Detroit's trailer park provocateur beaten by a mile. Plus, she's the mistress of her own destiny (not another Dre pawn); her previous releases came out bearing the manufacturing stamps of her own stridently anticorporate A Big Rich Major Label and Corrupt Conglomerate outfits.Princess Superstar Is is the followup to 2000's Last of the Great TwentiethCentury Composers, and her transition from selfreleasing material to signing with !K7's hiphop offshoot Rapster will ensure her broader distribution. Which means that all of us who aren't prowling Manhattan's East Village for white labels will have the pleasure of the Princess' company. This album is, as you'd expect from such a title, is collection of beatdown statements about who Princess Superstar is. She's as rapidly keen to distance herself from the idea that she's some producer's dolly as she would be to distance herself from someone with scabies. So \"Who Writes Your Lyrics\" is an assault weapon rhyme: \"Son of Sam? I'm the daughter of Sam/ Slaughter a man on the microphone/ Pardon me, ma'am, was that part of a man or your son I just whipped on the mic and sent home?\" Princess reinforces those homicidal statements with more operational ones: \"So I'm a girl, yeah, I'm white and I write all night with a bare swingin' light/ On the computer, alright? A producer, alright? I produced this song/ So you know who you are, you know you were wrong/ No, I was not in that porn On Golden Blonde/ Got it goin' on, more James Bond than Sean John.\" Not only is Princess Superstar all about eliminating any mis/preconceptions about her being a white chick in hiphop, but she's also gagging to emasculate the style, too. In \"Keith 'N' Me,\" her duet with the Spankmaster himself, Superstar leaves Kool Keith panting and blueballed. In a starstruck moment, she mutters, \"I gotta call my moms, tell her Keith's on my song/ Ultramagnetic you helped my headache like a music paramedic/ You mad athletic, there I said it.\" Then she regains her brash senses and returns to her rhyming Samantha Jones self, reducing Keith's dick to softserve. On \"Bad Babysitter,\" Superstar satirizes what people think of her, playing the craven teenager to the hilt: \"Babysitting sucks but whatever They got junk food, kung fu, egg fu, Dig Dug, a dog, too And a hot Jew, Mr. Weintraub, I mean he's old but not dimed out If I'm bad I'll turn around in the corner for time out Aiight, Josh, what you wanna do? You wanna watch cartoons?Platoon, hey get back in the room! I assume your folks are gonna be out late, go make me Kool Aid I'm a sit on the couch and masturbate Then call my boyfriend Gabe and see if he ate Spit out my Bubbalicious and get to one of them Big fridges that could fit 10 midgets Damn, they're rich, hey, she left me fifty dishes Bitch!\" With \"We Got Panache,\" Princess Superstar outlines her materialistic goals before stating that, no matter what, she's going to party: \"It's ironic how erotic my robotic sonnets Get girls in bonnets hot like Harry Connicks Sick on gin and tonics, we super sonic, hook you on our phonics Learned Ebonics by erotic ebony dick and Mantronix Never stoppin' it, sock electronic shit allotted The whole club up when we spotted it And if we wanted it, fill it with men and spawn and shit Ain't nothing wrong with it Let's get the party started, shit, let's get it on and hit.\" As a hedonist's manifesto, this has decidedly more Fifth Avenue elan than Andrew W.K.'s preliterate cavedweller grunts. Though the album showcases lyrical dexterity and directness, the beats that frame them are less finessed. Perhaps the Princess' desire to be perceived as a unique talent has led her to resist mimicking flavorofthemonth production for a more generic postNative Tongues sound. Though it's too much to ask that she team up with any of Mille Plateaux's clickhop artists, I'd love to hear this album produced by Vladislav Delay or Kid 606, on the evidence of his reworkings of Missy Elliott. That album would be truly amazing. Having worked for seven or so years in the Manhattan hiphop community, Princess Superstar is not out to amaze. She wants to get paid and she deserves to. But she's going to be in a precarious position if she's going to become more than a nominal superstar. As well as avoiding becoming a peripheral loudmouth skeeze for some aspiring RocAFella, she needs to avoid settling for dueting with Gwen Stefani when she should be guesting with Le Tigre. The Princess has, without question, the talent, the wit and the sass to live up to her alias. This record is certainly not the masterpiece I believe she's capable of, but rather, a clear premonition of such an album. "}