{"label":" Slam Jamz","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6408/homepage_large.5866811a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Public Enemy","title":"New Whirl Odor","text":" Hiphop's aging process can be a real bear. How these men and women are siphoned of their meaningful juice after the age of 32 is a mystery. I have no answers for this. Rock and r&b; stars make comebacks all the time, proving force into their thirties, forties, beyond, and debunking overthehillisms. Rap, eh, not so much on the revitalization tip. Rakim, LL Cool J, Marley Marl, Kool G Rap, et al titans the lot of them seem incapable of conjuring the fire they had in their youth. It's baffling. Public Enemy, a group so long on importance they have actually become hyperbole ipso facto, have struggled for more than 15 years to make anything as resounding as their first three albums. Their newest record with the stupendously stupid title New Whirl Odor opens with the same sort of blustery blackconscience quote that marked previous albums. Instead of Dr. King or Bobby Seale, they have employed the booming bridle of Rev. Al Sharpton a telling move clearly bound to questions of relevance. Quickly, a familiar voice, the atattention roar of Chuck Ridenhour booms. \"I smell a new whirl odor! I smell a new whirl odor.\" As a punny Maytag commercial, this is genius. As rapt political commentary it's lacking depth. PE is a group the world direly needs right now. Not simply as culture police or Karl Rove rovers and not to combat bling technocracy  but to enliven dialogue, keep it in check maybe, but mostly to play social pingpong. Paul Wall and PE should have fun together. Sniping is for suckers. Throughout the album, Chuck D often goes all Bill Cosby on us: Over the cheap Casio production of \"Makes You Blind\" he raps: \"Radiation of a radio TV movie nation/ On yo Goddamn mind, makes you blind!/ You don't matter, and they don't mind/ Cause these be the things that make you blind.\" Gah. There's a fine line between deflating institutional bullshit and a curmudgeon's condescension. PE fell prey to the latter years ago. Musically, the album is sorely missing the Bomb Squad's Jengastacked whirlwind compositions, replacing the Shocklee Brothers and Eric Sadler with Squad utility players Johnny Juice and Abnormal. It's not all bad, just mostly copycat stuff. Most of the songs start with that familiar blitzkrieg intensity. \"MKLVFKWR\" and \"Preachin' to the Quiet\" in particular slam through at the outset. It quickly becomes clear, however, that there's not much variety in these producer's repertoire. A song like \"Night of the Living Baseheads\" has so many elements, it's like getting dragged through a mine field every time you hear it. By contrast, here we get \"Makes You Blind\", the worst metal song of the year. Maybe the decade. Chuck needs to stop this fixation right now. Professor Griff needs to stop rapping, too his flow is broken. It's no fun disliking this album, but it's no fun to listen to, either. If you align yourself with Public Enemy, you'll be thrilled with all the shouting and sloganeering. But that's precisely what they should be combating: homogenization, tshirt politics, musical uniformity. Instead they get closer to Fiery Cover Band status. The cracks really start showing when the phrase \"Power to the people cuz the people want peace\" starts to mean nothing. What could once move the crowd, now just sounds empty. "}