{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6410/homepage_large.3a685474.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Pullman","title":"Viewfinder","text":" As punishment for turning in reviews late twice in a row, Ryan Pitchfork sent me to the subterranean archives of Pitchfork Towers to clean out some of the rubbish down there. Clearly he was angered by my negligence, so I refrained from asking him if he wouldn't mind if I kept any stuff I found interesting as I waded through years of accumulated and now dusty junk. Amidst the selfreleased CDRs by wastrel emo acts and dogeared, gushing pressreleases about IDM boffins, I found a first pressing of the selftitled album by United States of America, an autographed glossy photo of 12 Rods, and a curious parchment document. The writing on the document is in brown, inked calligraphy and the bottom righthand corner bears a drawn approximation of a wax royal seal. The script, though errorfree, shows manifest signs of instability (herkyjerky loops on descenders, unnaturally exact straight lines on ascenders, for example). Before even reading the words on the parchment, it was difficult not to hypothesize that whoever wrote this document is a borderline sociopath. Once you've read the words, which appear to mimic a proclamation, it's clear that the writer has an unchecked (and unmedicated) Napoleon complex. Here follows the text of the parchment. Make of it what you will: [Beginning of document] Whereas Pullman is a supergroup contisting of Bundy K. Brown (of Tortoise, Directions in Music, and Loftus) , Curtis Harvey (of Rex and Lotfus), Chris Brokaw (of Come and The New Year) Doug McCombs (of Tortoise, Brokeback, and Eleventh Day Dream), and Tim Barnes (of Silver Jews); Whereas Viewfinder is Pullman's second album and follows on from Turnstyles and Junkpiles, released in 1998; Whereas Viewfinder represents Pullman's attempt to demonstrate their pluggedin approximations of the acoustic folky blues of John Fahey, Richard Thompson, and Leo Kottke; Whereas Pullman has added percussion and tweaked Viewfinder's tracks in an editing studio; Whereas Pullman have mislaid the conviviality and ensemble joy of Turnstyles and Junkpiles; Whereas Viewfinder sounds like individuals playing for themselves rather than for the enjoyment of the band and for their audience; Whereas Viewfinder contains no heartbreaking gorgeousness such as \"Gravenhurst\" from Turnstyles and Junkpiles; Whereas Viewfinder's tracks would be best heard as instrumental segues between features on NPR's Morning Edition; I, the Infallible Sovereign of the serene sovereignty of Pitchforkia, hereby pronounce Viewfinder profoundly dull, and unworthy to be admitted into the presence of any the subjects of Pitchforkia nor into the territory of this fair domain. As I have spoken, so it shall be! [End of document] "}