{"label":" Aesthetics","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6418/homepage_large.4125a857.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Pulseprogramming","title":"Tulsa for One Second","text":" Just how do genre names start anyway? 'Cause I wanna get one going. Seems to me there's a new movement abrewing in the electronic music province, a newborn taking up residence somewhere between the scene's dancefloor boogie and IDM compositional chinstroking. Heralded by fantabulous 2002 albums from The Notwist and Max Tundra, a new sound arose combining accessible pop melodies with the cuttingedge of computerized music technology. As far as I know, however, nobody's come up with a name that's stuck on the donkey yet, so I'm volunteering my own. Lappop. Okay, right, sounds pretty awful right off the bat, I realize. But chew on it a bit, give it a few spins around the noggin, picture it on a record bin namecard. Yep, still awful. But all genre names are, aren't they? Which gives me the confidence that this one just might stick, and be applied to the increasing flow of releases to which it might apply be it the neartoothache of The Postal Service, the smoove stylings of Super_Collider, or the baitandswitch opener of Hrvatski's Swarm and Dither. And now, Pulseprogramming, who, should my creation gain popularity, would most adequately be referred to as runofthemill lappop. \"Blooms Eventually\" tips their hand right off, with that most lappoppy of devices, the vocoder you know, man, machine, the voice modified by technology, deep stuff. Despite the manipulated voice (w/vocodorized harmonies, even), synthesizer squiggles, and handclap hits, it's a rather melancholy affair more akin to a less organically grounded Notwist. It's a mood that continues throughout Tulsa in One Second, although further vocal tracks misplace the vocoder and leave the voices au natural. The singing rarely breaks out of a mopey drone, mournmoaning through I Am statements on \"Stylophone Purrs and Mannerist Blossoms\" or drearily intoning \"Row Row Row Your Boat\" lyrics on \"Off to Do Showery Snapshots\". Whereas other microphone collaborators in this movement bring muchneeded emotion to the binary codes of IDM Ben Gibbard brightening up the digitalia of Dntel, Max Tundra's sister verbalizing his aminoacid obsessions Pulseprogramming's lack of affect leaves their traditional songcraft sounding somewhat hollow. Not helping matters is the fact that Pulseprogramming's music is strictly bluntedge, full of glitchyclickybuzzy noises that sound tired even to this electronic music skimmer. The lack of freshness is most apparent on the disc's instrumental tracks, most of which sound like handmedown versions of the microcarols on Mum's Finally We Are No One. Only when the more driving bassline of \"Largely LongDistance Loves\" breaks the album out of its ticktack trance in the final act do the duo of Marc Hellner and Joel Kriske start to sound like more than a cutrate Matmos, setting the stage for the majestic closing build of \"Bless the Drastic Space\". Still, even that final burst of electronic chopwork behind a catchy vocal is par for the course on the Postal Service's fulllength, and proves that Pulseprogramming are a few lengths behind their peers. You might think I'd be upset with Tulsa for One Second for mucking up my freshly christened genre with a subpar release, but I'm not worried every new stylistic branch needs its mediocre releases to fill out the ranks. As for the possible spread of my squintingly terrible new genre label (remember kids, lappop! Use it in a sentence today!), don't worry, I can deal with the infamy. Worked for Douglas Coupland, dinnit? "}