{"label":" Chocolate Ind.","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13562/homepage_large.13aeacf6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Push Button Objects","title":"Ghetto Blaster","text":" Kick. Snare. Kick. Snare. Hihat. Although producers have moved past the classic boombap drum pattern, it's still pivotal for artists to know the past before creating the future. Surrounded by the highly polished sample fests of RJD2 and the ridiculously technical chopathons of Prefuse 73, Push Button Objects is lost in the fold, regardless of his clear production prowess. Sounding like a more basic mix of Jel and Prefuse 73, Edgar Farinas' sound is effectively simple sample chops and deep atmospherics. Not bad by any means, but nothing that will change the way you think about instrumental hiphop. His pieces range from perfectly accessible funk (\"Fly\") to ambient lofi thriller (\"3 Doctors\") and while variety is essential to any good beat disc, the instrumental tracks aren't all clinics at Beatmaking 101. The purely wordless tracks are less than outstanding, sounding like uninspired concepts that never got fleshed out. Farinas seems content to leave loops without any expansion, other than basic sample displacement. The only impressive piece is the opener \"Hustlin'\", consisting of hard mechanical drums, a sinister bassline, the Oompa Loompa sample made famous by Prince Paul, and a Shadowesque sequence of battle scratches that makes for an interesting, varied listening experience something the rest of the instrumentals might have enjoyed. Indeed, the best songs on the collection are the ones with lyrical accompaniment. Guests run the gamut of the underground, with Del tha Funkee Homosapien, Mr. Lif, Akrobatik and Maintain, among others, bringing life to Edgar's beats. It soon becomes clear that his best component is his ability to make beats that suit the artist. Standouts include Aesop Rock dropping an intelligent hoodlum on the easy listening acoustic guitar melody of \"Shut Down\" (\"Hopped up on Clonopin, kicking it to college girls/ I'll fuck you blind but I need to borrow a dollar first/ For stogies, guitar and pussy, like all I've got to look forward to\"), and Vast Aire blows the summery cymbaldriven rhythm of \"Fly\" (\"You could play my verse backwards and hear a flower growing/ Play it forward and all y'all snoring\"). While some songs fall flat (\"Air\" with Dose One sounds like a cLOUDDEAD outtake without the mindblowing Odd Nosdam beat to keep it afloat), Push Button Objects shows serious promise for future projects. Hopefully, he can move from this traditional work into more experimental spaces with his obvious production talent. "}