{"label":" Sub Rosa","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6428/homepage_large.ed286553.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Philip Jeck / Main / Oval / Henri Pousseur","title":"4 Parabolic Mixes","text":" That nearly all music is electronic is a banal truism. But during the 40s and 50s, a generation of experimentally oriented composers began to imagine music sourced from purely electronic means. Among the early pioneers was a Belgian named Henri Pousseur, who experimented with Karlheinz Stockhausen in a radio studio in Cologne. In 1972, Pousseur released an eightsided series of pieces on four vinyl records as 8 Études Paraboliques (in English, 8 Parabolic Studies). The relentlessly theoryoriented label Sub Rosa rereleased 8 Études Paraboliques as a fourdisc set in 2001. Around the time of this release, and as part of the label's interest in forging connections between movements in electronic music through time, Sub Rosa's founders organized an event in which four composers (including Pousseur himself) presented reworkings of Pousseur's music.My exploration of electronic music has been in reverse chronological order. In the last couple of years I've just started combing through the music of the 50s, 60s and 70s to see what composers were able to manage with their crude, roomsized circuit boards. Because of my method of inquiry, I've developed certain prejudices, including the tendency to see electronically created music basically as a process of evolution. That is, it's been a pretty steady march of music that has increased in quality over time. I wouldn't dare make such a claim about pop, jazz, what have you, but in terms of timbrel complexity, emotional power and overall interest level, the experimental electronic music of today is light years beyond what could be accomplished in the old days.All this is a way for me to say that I find Posseur's reworking of his own material to be the least interesting thing here. That's not to say that the thin, ghostly synthetic tones of yesteryear don't have a certain appeal, just that Pousseur's track is to me the stuff of nostalgia, the blips and hums of the blackandwhite Lost in Space flight deck. I have not heard the original 8 Études Paraboliques, so I can't say how much of the material makes it into these remixes. But Pousseur's pink noise sounds like the sound design for the \"blast off\" portion of an early70s NASA commemorative record. God bless him, we wouldn't be where we are now without his contributions, but I doubt I will ever listen to his 28minute piece once this review is over.Main's Robert Hampson does just a bit better. The liner notes present him as awed by the presence of Pousseur (he apparently performed directly after at the event recorded for this set), and he does follow much of the master's textural lead. Spare, dry tones dominate, but this time they're immersed in a groaning, cavernous space befitting Main's dark ambient style. Voices intrude, the mix becomes more complex and varied, but Main's contribution is never quite immersive enough.The second disc of this doubleCD set contains the gems. Philip Jeck, presumably working with some of the original recordings and then making plenty of room for the dusty vinyl oddities that are his instruments, expertly draws lines between the possibilities inherent in electricity and the nagging limitations of the physical world. His multiple layers of synth drones put forth rich harmonics never imagined by the original machines, and his addition of the \\xBC speed \"voice from hell\" (an effective trademark) and bits of percussion humanizes the cold music. The surface noise is kept to a minimum and he never quite hits a moment of grand catharsis, but Jeck's piece is deeply satisfying.Oval's Markus Popp, who has based much of his career on processing the music of others, provides the grand finale. Popp has gone from using a magic marker on the Aphex Twin's Selected Ambient Works Volume 2 to essentially putting the source material into an atom smasher to map the music's subatomic terrain. His piece is a miracle of dynamics and impossibly rich texture. Here, Popp's sounds, so distinctly his despite their complexity, are used in the service of an expertly composed track. After long, ominous drones that are obviously building to something, the piece explodes in a fountain of melodic feedback, spitting shimmering flecks of musical energy into the air. It's like a bottomless roman candle in machinegun mode. The CD skips are here, too, but as on Commers, they're so deeply buried in the noise that they serve as a violent rhythmic device quite apart from the old ambient days. It's a fitting end to this curious transhistorical experiment that makes the future look bright indeed. "}