{"label":" Big Wheel Recreation","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6433/homepage_large.805b693d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Pleased","title":"Don't Make Things","text":" After years of eschewing any label support, San Francisco fivepiece The Pleased have finally settled down: now inked to Los Angelesbased indie Big Wheel Recreation, the band have released Don't Make Things, a strikingly uneasy collection of songs that reflect, almost perfectly, the band's apparent distrust of the future. The Pleased can be a surprisingly dark outfit, considering how many of these songs sound, at first listen, like perfectly danceable newnewwave hits. A few additional spins, however, promptly reveal Don't Make Things as a record teeming with the threat of impending explosion: the album plays like a thick, vaguely melancholy exaltation of right now, wherein all glee is fleeting, tempered by a far grimmer appraisal of tomorrow. The Pleased's brand of joy is hinged, inextricably, on the notion that shit's gonna fall apart, and soon. As opener \"Already Gone\" posits, \"I know it looked so nice in the evening/ But now that the sun's up again/ We're better off alone.\" The resulting work is palpably tense, with dodgy guitar, soulful vocals, and plenty of detached urban cool. Before you start conjuring images of Interpol, know this: at least superficially, The Pleased seem to take a lot of same sonic cues as Coldplay (both bands have made careers out of channeling the moody theatrics of the Bunnymen, and vocalist Noah Georgeson's sweet, undulating howl is easily comparable to Chris Martin's round yelps). Still, The Pleased are far less earnest crusaders, avoiding Coldplay's open sentimentality in favor of sneaky whispering a trade which may be tied into their instrument choices: check the shifty keyboards sliding in where Coldplay's precious piano might have gone. Ultimately, The Pleased end up being more accurately aligned with tourmates The Walkmen, and it's not surprising that the band are so often mistaken as members of the recent New York City influx they've got quite a bit of slink in their gait. Vocalists Georgeson and Rich Good routinely trade mic duties, and the haunting, bassheavy \"No Style\" sees them engaged in an especially compelling battle of wits, their callandresponse bellows skewing slightly confrontational. \"We are the Doctor\" is a rich, sprawling guitarrock song, reminiscent of The Bendsera Radiohead, while the album's title track (aside from hosting the remarkably cutting couplet, \"You don't try but I know why/ You don't make things\") is a taut jab, with mixeddown vocals and loads of jumpy percussion. The Pleased are obviously convinced of their own righteousness, and appropriately so Don't Make Things is an impressive offering, full of wellrealized moments of panic and resignation. Be glad they make things. "}