{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6434/homepage_large.82d5259c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"Party of One","title":"Caught the Blast","text":" If lofi ever had any integrity as a creative approach, it sure as hell doesn't now, and here's why: it takes more money and effort to sound \"bad\" in that specific, tightly regimented, FourTrackDemosonaTwoDollarGuitar way than it does to sound produced. With the advent of ProTools and its sundry cheaper alternatives, the PC has become the real weapon of the proletariat, resigning the Tascam to the kind of wanker nostalgia John Vanderslice spoofs in \"Me and My 424\". Now that cutting, pasting and tweaking material at the touch of a button has become the soundest and most costeffective recording method, the current purveyors of lofi must practice stoicism that borders on narcissism. This, mind you, is a major breakthrough for me sort of like the time I realized that the average goth spends more time in front of the mirror than the average cheerleader and I've got Party of One to thank. They sound like absolute shit, which I'm sure they'd take as a compliment: every note produced by every instrument on Caught the Blast has been meticulously designed to suck. You know precisely what I'm talking about: dry, tinny, notquitetuned guitars, castrated bass, hissy cymbals, a snare drum that sounds like somebody left a halfeaten sandwich in it. Add a male vocalist who trades in subMalkmusian yelps an octave over his natural range, and his female associate who whispers as if embarrassed to be there, and we've got the perfect end result of everything bands like Sebadoh and the Swirlies have wrought, handily doubling as a parody.Caught the Blast opens with \"Snap You Like a Twig\", addressed to \"all you pricks in the present and all you pigs in the past.\" Of course, it's not really \"addressed\" to anyone or anything singer/songwriter Eric Fifteen is far too clever to rely on actual subjects; his lyrics consist mostly of unrelated idioms culled from the white noise of the American media (although signed to a British label, the band hails from Minnesota), usually repeated ad nauseam. Since his verbiage betrays a number of nights spent in the company of Fox News and a joint, Party of One will inevitably mistaken for a \"political\" band; well, yeah, they do have a song called \"Baghdad Boogie\", an unpleasantly Weenlike number sung from the point of view of a caricatured fedayeen: \"Bring your boys home in a box/ You got an army that really sucks rocks.\" Look: real dissent, real provocation, real satire would come in really handy right about now. This is none of those things; Saddam Hussein seems to occupy roughly the same cultural space in this ironist's brain as ScoobyDoo. Party of One also have a song called \"Six Million Anonymous Deceased\", the chorus of which goes (prepare yourselves): \"Six million anonymous deceased, six million anonymous deceased\" about 16 times in a row, and none of these times does the incantation mean shit to Eric Fifteen. Is he an intuitive Situationist? Nah, he clearly can't be bothered. It's an intellectual equivalent of lofi, and in 2003, it's just as dishonest. A pose of bemused ineptitude is a pose first and foremost, and Party of One are nothing if not poseurs. This band's entire raison d'etre is to demonstrate how suavely they go about the business of not giving a fuck. It would be the ultimate hubris to assume that we'll react with anything other than a yawn to match. "}