{"label":" Red Buttons","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6442/homepage_large.14f4b7a7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Petracovich","title":"Blue Cotton Skin","text":" Lazy music critics the kind routinely given the brushoff by this shamelessly overachieving publication often rely on halfrealized juxtapositions and convoluted, namedropping analogies that circumvent the brainwork required to actually say anything useful. But sometimes, comparisons are so bull'seyeaccurate they can't be avoided. So I apologize in advance, Ryan; the rest of you go ahead, call me lazy: Petracovich sounds like Aimee Mann fronting Sparklehorse with Beth Orton calling in plays from the sidelines. Of course, just because the dots are so easily connected doesn't mean Blue Cotton Skin is a simple piece of work. Petracovich mastermind Jessica Peters produces a hypnotic dreamtime soundtrack, all misty insinuations and shimmering mirages, a surprisingly enduring album of muffled bedroom folktronica wrapped in the silken sheen of Peters' subdued songbird voice.Blue Cotton Skin is one of those remarkable debuts that, even as it pulls at so many stylistic threads, capably establishes a unique, cohesive vision. There's an array of ingredients here that in less assured hands might unravel the consistently crystalline, dreamy mood, but Peters maintains the mystery. For instance, the Portishead dub noir of \"Nighttime\" and the Julee Cruise minimalism of \"Fall from Trees\" are the dark yin to the sunny yang of \"Birds in Flight\", with its anthemic guitar, handclaps, sweeping strings, and sugary girlpop background vocals. The album's two instrumentals are mildly dissonant, experimental pieces: \"Coyote on the Moon\" rides an underwater calliope hum, while \"Rosebud\" plays with reversed reverb. Meanwhile, the stunning, sundrenched \"Driving Home\" showcases Peters' sharp songwriting skills, its slowunfolding and sensual, druggy buzz evoking a female take on \"Summertime Rolls\". Here, Peters' cooing vocals, though understated and at times even whispery, are selfassured and strong, unleashing emotion through intonation rather than volume. Like the lowkey lullabies of Iron & Wine, Blue Cotton Skin might first settle into deceivingly shallow territory, but close listening reveals rich production details and unusual song structures. \"Footsteps\", a patient, fuzzy revelation, offers a musical storyline that develops over a repeated piano melody, a programmed drum track, and droning guitar, closer to Michael Brook than Sam Beam. Consisting of only thumb piano, kettledrums and Peters' phaseshifted vocals, \"Water House\" spooks like Tom Waits, while \"Company\" astraltravels with spacy effects and somber piano. Peters and coproducer Tad Wagner, who also adds electric guitar and bass, introduce subtle electronic nuances and studio tweaks that give these songs a deep, alluring luster. Clearly, Peters has a broad creative reach, exemplified by the album's overall haunting, stark beauty. But the fact that Petracovich only delivers 30 minutes of music is unsettling in the end it seems odd that the record's so short and its ending so sudden. Like a dream, Blue Cotton Skin entices the listener to a hidden island floating in the ether, but doesn't last long enough to allow him to dwell there. "}