{"label":" StarTime","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/650/homepage_large.a836686f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Brendan Benson and the Wellfed Boys","title":"Metarie EP","text":" Woe to powerpop, and to any pop that treads the goldenglittery road paved by mythical British archetypes and downright ancient American high society types. Of all the various strains of wouldbe rock and roll music, truly it is most often damned from the start: Badfinger knew it, The Raspberries knew it, Curt Boettcher found out, XTC stood alone in the corner as Cheap Trick went to the bank, The dB's broke up as The Rembrandts showed us just how to pigeonhole an entire genre in ten days.Why does this happen? Is it because powerpop is ultimately an exercise of men (and Aimee Mann) trying to be boys? Is it because the world can only handle so much falsetto? Is it because the notion of compact, tightly constructed pop songs performed by people with guitars doesn't make it past the 10 a.m. meeting in a world expecting today's deliverables yesterday?I've never figured out why rock bands playing in the mold of The Beatles, Beach Boys and, well, Cole Porter haven't been more popular. Aren't those guys supposed to be the greatest ever? Perhaps part of the problem is that the general public can't really be bothered with the next generation when they think they've already seen the best episodes.In any case, Californiasunned singer/songwriter (ouch, that label has to be at least half the problem) Brendan Benson is pressing on. His 2002 sophomore fulllength, Lapalco was moderately wellreceived by your fave online music hotspot, and judging by the company he keeps (Jason Faulkner... um, Dan Castellaneta hey, don't diss his record until you've heard it. Okay, now you can diss it) you'd think he'd at least have some kind of cult following. His tunes should be right on time for fans of Faulkner, Mann and 90s nextspiltthing Jellyfish.Metarie is an EP (that for all intents and purposes is really an extended single) featuring new versions of two songs from Lapalco, one new tune and a cover of Paul McCartney's \"Let Me Roll It\". Like most good powerpop, the band (a new one for Benson, featuring mainly members of fellow nice guys The Atomic Numbers) sounds good and the background vocals even better. Consequently, Benson's leads are semiexposed as being a tad thin to carry his songs, which isn't unprecedented (Ben Folds, please stand up) but is disappointing for anyone wanting a little more power in their pop.\"Alternative to Love\" is almost straight Friends fare disguised in Rubber Souls. \"Maybe I'm just damaged goods.../ Me, I'm just a little lost lamb,\" are Benson's admissions, and that places him squarely in the realm of cute li'l underdog. Again, anyone paying even marginal attention to powerpop over the years shouldn't be surprised, though playing that same face through the otherwise faithful version of \"Let Me Roll It\" (one of McCartney's grittier Wingsera outings) drastically undersells its charm. Metarie is probably a stopgap release, and one that probably shouldn't be given microscopic focus by fans. Still, I keep rooting for those damn underdogs, and it would be nice to see one show a little muscle now and then.  "}