{"label":" Peanuts & Corn","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6446/homepage_large.b24250de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Pipi Skid","title":"Funny Farm","text":" The Peanuts & Corn collective is best known for the quirky humor and traditional production that made Pip Skid's Friends4Ever and Hip Hop Wieners' All Beef, No Chicken underground favorites. A sophomore effort and the return of the label's vanguard, Pipi Skid's Funny Farm is a slightly darker affair than might've been expected from a traditionally comical group of artists. First off, Pipi Skid's style of rap is incredibly idiosyncratic. To make a simple comparison, he comes off like The Streets if Mike Skinner was Canadian, grounded in hiphop traditions (mid90s sound, emphasis on scratching, references to oldschool favorites), and actually focused on his flow. Pipi raps with a gravelly voice, but it doesn't impede his accessibility like it might for Buck 65 or Aesop Rock. And if some rap purists may not take to it, Pipi's decidedly pedestrian subject matter (working at an old folks' home, dependence on alcohol, germ phobia, pawning off his shit for quick cash) is a big part of his charm. \"Pip Skizzy\" best exemplifies the styles of both Pipi Skid and producer Mcenroe. The backdrop hits with wavering Spanish guitar and repeating jazz hihats, while Pipi justifies murder (\"You smell like McDonald's and WalMart/ By killing you, I'm acting globally, doing a small part\"), forced impotency (\"While you listen to 'Rapture', I'ma rupture your nuts/ Blondie's singing and I'm swinging and you can't have no children\"), and presidential assassination (\"And now everybody scream/ As I mow down Bush and his security team\"). The song sets the album's tone perfectly. Produced entirely by Mcenroe, Funny Farm is oriented around strings and dusty drum funk. From the looped sequence of tribal drums, orchestral horns, and flutes on the title track to the whimsical bounce, slowrelease horn flourish, and gorgeous violin of \"Super Dope Producers\" to the glitchy doubletime drums and wind chimes of \"Magnifique\", there's ample evidence of Mcenroe's traditional yet incredibly technical style. As is the case with most Peanuts & Corn work, the production stands out over the lyrics without unbalancing the album too much. In the end, though, the record does present something of a conflict: There are good ideas, excellent beats, and solid rapping all over this album, and Pipi Skid plays a highly likeable everyman character. But Pipi's better at utilizing humor based on his life experiences and the underground hiphop landscape than tackling Funny Farm's more downtrodden topics. I'd have preferred longer songs, too, as some of the shorter pieces, had they been expounded upon, might have improved the album as a whole. Still, Funny Farm upholds P&C;'s claim to relevance in today's independent hiphop scene. "}