{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6456/homepage_large.d711a1de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Annette Peacock","title":"My Mama Never Taught Me How to Cook: The Aura Years 1978-1982","text":" Every line that Annette Peacock sings has a target. Though her voice has limits she often pushes, it's uniquely expressive: Whether persuading you about an esoteric political stance, holding you with a monologue like a captive at a dinner party, or wracking you with the problems lined up in her mind, Peacock is as serious as stone. And she's just as powerfully feminine. Her seductiveness doesn't sidle up to you so much as stare you down, and even a crooning whisper falls like a decision to marry. None of her records even the few that are still in print capture Peacock's singing as clearly and thoroughly as this collection, which reissues her most commercial efforts out of a lifetime of difficult art. Throughout her career, she stayed in the background or worked behind one man or another. She started her career as a singer, pianist and composer in the 60s, when her marriage to bassist Gary Peacock led her to take the stage with Albert Ayler; she wrote ballads made of heavy notes with wide spaces between them, and Paul Bley, her second husband, recorded definitive versions of several of them. But Peacock only started in jazz. She and Bley talked Bob Moog into lending them one of his early synthesizers, and they were among the first people to drag one onto a stage, putting up with the 20 minute delays to patch it for the next song. David Bowie was an admirer, and she turned down an offer to appear on Aladdin Sane, only to sign with and be strung along by Bowie's management. A session with Brian Eno also fell apart, but she won over Bill Bruford, who appears on this record and who invited her to sing on Feels Good to Me. You can also read accounts of her topless show at New York City's Townhall, or a holographic performance with Salvador Dali on Broadway. But that's another story. This collection, consisting of material released on the Aura label in the late 1970s, documents some of her few sessions as a group's unequivocal leader. It includes the complete XDreams and The Perfect Release albums, plus two rare outtakes that were mastered from badly worn vinyl. \"My Mama Never Taught Me How to Cook\", the first and strongest song from XDreams, creates a giveandtake between bluesy riffs and lurching disorder as Annette Peacock sings, speaks and wails the lyrics. Our modern ears are accustomed to hearing a song lurch like a ship at sea, but something about Peacock's delivery still ducks categorization. This is a song about family politics, with sly puns intimating brother/sister sex, next to accusations that her parents didn't encourage her, and didn't prepare her to be any better than she is. But her real attitude is as elusive as the guitars (are they improvising, or under firm, Captain Beefheartlike control?), and so she gets her message across in a song that's as ambiguous as a relationship. On \"Real & Defined Androgens\", Peacock delivers an almostspoken word piece over a harsh prog jam with chopping guitar chords and squalling sax. But the later recordings on XDreams settle down: Peacock had relocated from New York City to England, where she assembled a strong funkrock band that features Bruford, Mick Ronson, and Chris Spedding, and here she writes colorfully wistful ballads like \"Questions\", and also leads the band through a total reinvention of Elvis Presley's \"Don't Be Cruel\" that updates the song for the age of big lapels. Peacock took an even smoother, almost disappointing turn on The Perfect Release. The first four tracks from that disc are catchy funkpop played by members of the Jeff Beck Band and sweetened with steel drums and a tweaky pitchbending synthesizer. They've aged about as well as \"Escape (The Piña Colada Song)\", and the background remains static, failing to provide any nuance to Peacock's political/astronomical musings. After those first tracks, the set moves on to a reggae single, the seductive monologueovermusic of \"The Succubus\", and the 14minute \"Survival\", a jam that never overheats and nearly runs to tedium until Peacock abruptly ends it with a jazzy quote from \"Silent Night\". Still, The Perfect Release is a step down from XDreams: Dated in many ways, especially lyrically, it sounds more onedimensional than almost anything in Peacock's catalog. It delivers flat, clear messages, and that had never been her goal before. That album's commercial failure just added insult to injury, and Peacock has never tried to sound this \"pop\" again. (On her latest disc, 2000's An Acrobat's Heart, ECM led her back to austere balladeering.) Many artists today not least Björk or PJ Harvey have crossed artistic experimentation with commercial appeal by wandering in new directions and then nailing down the discoveries and making them popular. There are many reasons why Björk's idiosyncratic work has made her a star while Peacock never attained the fame that she aspired to in the 70s and that she firmly turned her back on in the 80s. But one clue is that Peacock never built up an obvious identity. She looks so different from photo to photo in the liner notes that you could almost be looking at sisters. For such a powerful performer, Annette Peacock has never been a diva. She never shied away from letting her man take the spotlight, never sounded squeamish about mangling her own voice in electronic effects. It was easier to sound mysterious in the 70s, when your career, the story behind your career, and the subtext under everything you did weren't put under a microscope. But even by those standards, Peacock's a cipher: She lets the work speak for itself, when it so chooses. "}