{"label":" Bu Hanan","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6468/homepage_large.85453233.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Prayers and Tears of Arthur Digby Sellers","title":"The Mother of Love Emulates the Shapes of Cynthia","text":" The Prayers and Tears of Arthur Digby Sellers is frequently compared to Bright Eyes, which is understandable. Besides the indiefolk bent and ostentatious titles, the primary affinity is logistical both groups are actually solo singer/songwriters supported by a revolving cast of musician friends. Succinctly put, Conor Oberst is to Bright Eyes as Perry Wright is to Prayers and Tears. Like Pedro the Lion or Sufjan Stevens, Wright's music has a solemn, prayerful aura and an oblique religious bent. On Mother of Love, he's surrounded himself with friends from bands like Sixpence None the Richer, the Polyphonic Spree, and Ester Drang to flesh out his meticulously sculpted ephemera, a haunting synthesis of folk, rock, country, and electro. \"Concerning Lessons Learned from the Aliens\" shuffles through various permutations of drifting acoustic arpeggios and chimes, ballasted by an elementary chord progression and a vocal turn reminiscent of Grandaddy's simplistic, easygoing sonority and Oberst's sustained metaphorical thrust sans melodrama or selfpity. Wright's skillful arrangements are a large part of the record's appeal, and here the various melodic snippets come together with a winsome string section for muted closing climax. By the time the husky, intense inflections and folkrock exclamations of \"Cannot Eat Better Not Sleep\" roll around, it's hard not to imagine that Wright is the sort of restrained, concise singer that Oberst might one day grow into. Wright wrings a lot of mileage out of songs that move in incremental dynamic shifts between whispery bedroom music and crashing electrorock pile drivers the mordant hush and theatrical stomp of \"The Eventual Intimate of So Much Nostalgia (Hutchinson Effect)\", the distended piano and dark dirge of \"Above the Waves (Pluripotency)\", and the languid, demented choral inflections of \"The Slow Decay of Some Radio Afterglows\" all adhere to this template. Others don't: \"Rotation of Crops\" and \"Archaeopteryx\" are laden with staticky, offkilter beats and ominous drones. \"Ammunition for a BoltAction Heart\" is driven by sharp pokes of bass and sleek rhythm guitars punctured by drum machine salvos; the pronounced loud/soft dynamic and direct lyrics mark it as the album's only unabashed rocker. The record revolves around the theme of lost love, but Wright sets up a series of imbricate, evocative images that submerge us in the feelings while sparing us the pathos. Every time I say I never want to hear another concept record about somebody's failed marriage, one comes along that's lovely enough to make me to eat crow. But I swear to God, this is the last one. Now will someone pass me a steak knife? This crow is fucking tough. "}