{"label":" Rune Grammofon","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6471/homepage_large.ff10ad8b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Phonophani","title":"Oak or Rock","text":" Norwegian Espen Sommer Eide, one half of Alog, works solo as Phonophani. Oak or Rock is his third record and second for Rune Grammofon (his first was released on Tromsø homeboy Geir Jenssen's Biophon label). Alog combine softwarebased sounds with acoustic instruments, some treated, some left alone; as Phonophani, Eide works with the same elements but in different proportions. Oak or Rock is more purely electronic than the most recent Alog record, with a particular emphasis on the bleeps that have been associated with numbercrunching computers ever since fridgesized, reeltoreel consoles were dressing scifi movie sets. The dominance of bleeps on Oak or Rock makes the appearance of sounds from the physical world that much more striking. It all works, but you can't help but think about the conflict between the various sources and their immediate associations. So the groaning cello on \"Take Off Your Wooden Coat\" is more mournful when surrounded by the gurgling computer noises, a swaying signpost of music tradition struggling to stand upright in the digital rain. \"You Must Welcome the Stranger\" also incorporates cello but abstracted vocal samples dominate. The rush of syllables are impossible to place, whether they come from songs or finely chopped speech, but the cumulative herkyjerky effect is something like flipping through a book of animation, sensing movement in the layers of images until your thumb sticks and you're left with a crudely drawn still. A few tracks delight in finding leaks between the digital/acoustic divide. \"The Boiling Fjords Orchestra\" splits the difference between the worlds, stretching the drone of strings until it acquires a sparkling metallic sheen, but the best track on the record is \"Cloudberry\", a collaboration with vocalist Maja Ratkje. She's a natural for this sort of betweenthespaces world, sounding like a bionic Meredith Monk floating above the rhythmic bed of static. Her chirps, coos, and melodic croons blend easily with the electronic tones and it's sometimes difficult to tell where her voice leaves off and the processing begins. When the computer takes over completely on Oak or Rock (\"Earth Diver\", \"The Melancholic Giant\"), the results are merely interesting, worth following for the offthegrid unpredictability but failing to engage on a textural level. But these soso lulls, constituting roughly half the record, are easier to ride out knowing an amazing little track is just around the corner. "}