{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6476/homepage_large.6c829ea5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"The Punks","title":"Thank You For the Alternative Rock","text":" From its title on down, Thank You For the Alternative Rock is a deceptive and perplexing release, one that frequently disguises its many charms beneath an unflattering layer of flippant irony and overly forced, selfconscious quirkiness. With a band name and B&W;, Xeroxquality cover art that give this package the look of a generic hardcore 7\" from 1986, the Punks instead generate a rather impressive sequence of mesmeric drones and noisy, freeform improvisations, which given some of the album's sillier, crazedtoddler trappings are often performed with an astonishing degree of patience and subtlety. Led by Kill Rock Stars chi eftain Slim Moon, the Punks feature a rather fluid lineup of musicians who utilize whatever instruments, stray materials, and recording space they can get their collective paws on to craft their amorphous, malformed ditties. On these 12 tracks only seven of which were deemed worthy of earning actual titles the group move quickly between various experimental forms like a restless Sunday school class who've been introduced to Black Dice and Excepter immediately prior to teacher's next smoke break. In fact, Black Dice are here the possible beneficiaries of a brief, oblique homage, as the Punks borrow the title \"Beaches and Canyons\" for a wiggy, wordless a cappella piece that lands them somewhere between Cornelius Cardew's The Great Learning and a failed Monty Python rehearsal. Another brazen episode of titleswiping occurs on the very unSnooplike \"Drop It Like It's Hot\", an extended wave of drone sculpted from amp feedback, violin, and woodwinds that builds in gradual strength with the same resonant forethought as some of Keiji Haino's more subdued work. Also displaying the Punks' surprisingly refined touch are tracks like \"Jean Travolta\", a winsome, evocative piece featuring piano, fiddle, and what sounds like an oboe, and the album's several unnamed instrumentals which each contain a bewildering assortment of stray, unknowable sound sources. Particularly effective are the group's more percussive numbers, which often begin with what sounds like the clatter of a several janitors simultaneously rattling their enormous keyrings before evolving into hypnotic No Neck Bluesstyle beat tribalism. As delightful as the album's highlights are, however, they also serve to make the Punks' alltofrequent (and seemingly willful) pisstakes feel even more frustrating. The opening \"Theme From John Chavez\", for example, crudely assembles a rickety drum machine behind squiggly vocals and random sound effects in a manner that seems as just likely to repel curious listeners as does to seduce them. And the inclusion of inconsequential shouldbeouttakes like the 10second scream of \"Turn Up the Awesome\" or the child'seye musique concrete of \"Comida\" feels like idle indulgence. While these lesser cuts grow ever more automatically skippable with each subsequent playing, it'd never draw your notice if the rest of the album didn't so thoroughly reward every repeat visit. "}