{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6479/homepage_large.67559af0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Pajo","title":"Pajo","text":" Like another singular musical intelligence named David, Dave Pajo is intimately familiar with changes. First he was in this band called Slint; apparently they were some kind of big deal. Ditto Tortoise. And as a solo artist under the guises of M, Papa M, and Aerial M, Pajo has quietly staked out territory at the nexus of pastoral folk and minimal electronica. He is a dim yet essential star in a musical constellation that includes Leonard Cohen, Iron and Wine, and Windsor for the Derby. Given his retiring demeanor and the subtlety of his solo work, everyone was thrown for a loop when he hooked up with the Great Pumpkin to glam out with Zwan. We all know how that turned out. After washing off his stage makeup and shaking the glitter out of his hair, Pajo is back in the murky, spare musical environment where he seems more at home: His new solo LP, recorded under his own name this time (reaffirmation of identity after hanging with the egodevouring Corgan?), picks up more or less where Whatever, Mortal left off. Pajo's solo output has stayed within fairly narrow stylistic borders, but he's made minute adjustments in style and personnel. We talk about evolution when an artist makes a drastic change from one album to the next, but Pajo's growth seems more faithful to the spirit of the word: A slow, incremental process of refining and tweaking natural selection rather than rampant mutation. This time, he used a barebones recording process that enhances the aura of mystery surrounding his enigmatic meditations, producing the album with cheap software that came with his laptop and singing directly into the computer's microphone. Sounds sketchy on paper, but it works: If you're familiar with Pajo's music, you know he needs fancy production like Corgan needs a hairnet, and the hissy, unfettered recording makes the songs sound like decaying artifacts. Still, Pajo requires a few passes before the songs begin to differentiate and expand: Pajo's voice is a gray, remote apparition that tends to shade into a hoarse whisper. It's remarkably placid and still, and has a strange negating effect that can only be described as audible silence, if you'll forgive the abstraction. Forgoing instrumentals this time in favor of shimmering, spectral folk with electronic dressings, the eerie quietude does not relent, from the initial skittering dirge \"Oh No No\" to the final spokenword echo chamber \"Francie\", even on the borderline rocker \"Baby Please Come Home\". This record doesn't intend to blow your hair back; it wants to get under your skin, and with its twinkling arpeggios, morbidly graceful lyrics, and barely there electronics, slowly, it does.  "}