{"label":" Ubiquity","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6483/homepage_large.38ece0ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Platinum Pied Pipers","title":"Triple P","text":" The production teamcumrecording artists in Detroit's Platinum Pied Pipers face commercial disadvantages. Record buyers often prefer the face on the cover to the voice behind the mic, and who can blame 'em. Shit gets confusing, like when the Neptunes became N.E.R.D. and they were a band but they weren't a band and...? Waajeed's Slum Village roots may help, but, frankly, Triple P probably won't make good on the Pipers' metalpromising moniker.Presents...style collections do have a leg up on their emceesponsored counterparts: stylistic coherence. (Hey, I care.) Triple P is no different. Each track is piloted by a gigantic, rushing thump. Sounds unremarkable, but continuity of beat is the first commandment of hiphop production, and the hood is overrun by damn sinners. On top of this generous featherbed, PPP dump heaps of gooey, loungedout instrumentation. One track has, like, eight electric pianos. Three more have seven. But \"Your Day Is Done\", which only brings five, is the nobrainer standout. The beat, to which Georgia lends serviceable belting and rapping, is definitive Detroit rushed snare, both smooth and skittish. Yet for all the pleasant pastichery, many tracks get a strike for mediocre, halfassed, or annoying vocal performances. PPP are immodestly generous, doling out feature spots like it's their duty to God. When those spots are occupied by established talent, like Jay Dee, the results can be exhilarating. But most of the album's guests are yettoblow newbies, most of whom sound timorous. One passerby who could use more trepidation is Lacks, whose performance on \"The Pees\" is downright obnoxious. He flows like a slap bassist, performing exhausting rudiments in tootight spaces with little grace and even less rhythm. Not sayin' it couldn't work, but the sassy Mr. Lacks does not jive with the Pipers' lowlaying desert bar confections. To PPP's credit, weak contributions from SaRa Creative Partners, Tiombre Lockhart, and Zeno are redeemed by stellar beats. Dappled with streaks of astral synths, \"Deep Inside\" has a shy, backgrounded feel, which complements SaRa's quiet, privategroovin' vox. \"I Got You\" sounds like a civil union of Nicolay's Foreign Exchange project and Rich Harrison's fabulous \"1 Thing\" gogo beat: It throbs elegant brass and ivory under lofi saran, while a cacophonous ride bell tap dances in the backbackground. MC Invincible's appearance on \"Detroit Winter\" sums up the record's shortcomings: Her skills are undeniable, but girl needs to speak up. So, while I'm frustrated that Triple P takes few risks and that its guest performers are so coweringly modest about their talents, Platinum Pied Pipers still get a pat on the back. And a motivational pep talk. And a gobletfull of sizzurp, because what the hell. "}