{"label":" Money Studies","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6493/homepage_large.0f5e2a39.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Piano Overlord","title":"The Singles Collection 03-05","text":" By single, Scott Herren (aka Piano Overlord, aka Prefuse 73) must be referring to his singular preoccupation with pop music's most tepid noisemaker, the synth. The Singles Collection 0305 blears through 16 tracks of generally flavorless broth. It's not awful, but in some ways that's worse. While no production affectation could enliven Herren's languid songwriting, it would be nice if he showed some interest in the material. His hand sleepwalks up and down the keyboard, loping griddrawn phrases with minimal dynamics. Maybe \"Stay Home\" wouldn't be so teflon if Herren tweaked some knobs. The Rhodes can growl like a sprawledout pit bull guarding his dumpster scraps; Herren's yawns like it's ready for a tryptophan nap. Not even syncopation salvages. Beats either fumble in downmixed freejazz frottage (\"Recuerdas\") or crack from erectness (\"Walk Home\"). Credit Herren this: His rhythms whittle thin the often stark line separating live and synthetic drum sounds. How does he do it? Seemingly by cookingcutting live kit snippets, then running them on a conveyor belt until they assume 808 rigidity. Hey, I eat Devil Dogs, too, but that doesn't mean I like seeing them on Unwrapped. So has this guy peaked early? Not at all; he just beatmakes like my buddy Matt plays \"World of Warcraft\": mindlessly and probably at the expense of more important shit, perhaps even actually shitting. Singles Collection cultivates material dating back to 2003, the same year Herren gave us One Word Extinguisher, his praiseworthiest product to date. \"Spring's Arrival\" and \"Running JCH for All His Breaks and Jewels\" play like overaerated discards from that project. Where One Word tossed its mesclun mix, Herren here cobbles together smudges of sound faint wind chimes, light bass bob, lava lamp synth bubbles and leaves it at that. It's minimal but not minimalist: His gestures achieve nothing. "}