{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6502/homepage_large.cdca9df3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Quix*o*tic","title":"Mortal Mirror","text":" O, Canada, we need to sit down for some face time, just you and me. How's everything? How are all the trees? Good? Glad to hear it. How's the old national selfesteem doing? Only reason I ask is that I've been seeing all these \"Made in Canada\" stickers on things lately. This little plea for attention just seems kinda... desperate, you dig? Don't worry, man; we haven't forgotten about you. Do you feel like we've been neglecting you down here? Why, suddenly, is there this need to be all like, \"Hey! Remember Canada? We make things!\" It just worries me, that's all. You're like a washed up actor desperate for work, attaching your name to anything that crosses the border. Have you heard some of these CDs you've given your precious Canadian blessings to? Well, it happens that I've got one of the steaming piles that you've so lovingly manufactured right here. It's Mortal Mirror by Quix*o*tic, and if it isn't a reason to reconsider pimping out your national pride on just anything, I don't know what is. I was kind of worried from the getgo I don't need to tell you that the allgirlsplustestosteroneinfuseddrummer thing is rapidly flirting with becoming another indierock cliché. But at least Mick Barr plays bass instead of drums, and Christina and Mira Billotte are sisters, so it's kind of a wash. The album art, a photo by Barbara Billotte, immediately made me wonder just when it was that Kill Rock Stars began signing Goth acts, but, ever conscientious and objective, I simply recalled that no matter how famous Richard Meltzer might be, you can't judge an album solely by its cover art. O, Canada, if only my fears had been dispelled. I was hoping my concerns were unfounded, but it was downhill from the moment I spun the disc. You should have nipped this in the bud, Canada I didn't know what I was in for. \"Ice Cream Sundae\" plodded lifelessly at me, nothing but irritatingly repetitive bass and offkey, apathetic vocals. It was stark, minimal, and frightfully unpleasant, and even though it was punctuated with a playful guitar solo motif, that wasn't enough to salvage such an ugly skeleton of a tune. Was she actually singing, \"Walking through a circus of/ Bloody ghouls and perfect fools/ Stupid little people who/ Think that they make all the rules\"? I persevered against all better judgment, although by the third track, it was becoming alarmingly clear that this was little more than some copped blues riffs and traditional arrangements laced with misplaced folkgoth atmospherics and vaguely surfy guitars. It tasted like the recipe for musical Ipecac; things looked grim. How many times could they recycle weird, bassheavy variations of \"The Worms Crawl In, the Worms Crawl Out\" with a funeral march arrangement (\"Open Up the Walls\") and a surf instrumental arrangement (\"Mortal Mirror\")? At times, they did manage to sound a little like some of the sparsest, most lowkey offering from artrockers Blonde Redhead (a compliment. Also, both bands were produced by the estimable Guy from Fugazi. Coincidence, or phenomenon?), but without any of the flare or vitality (not a compliment). The dismal trudge through the aural mud of Mortal Mirror wouldn't be easy, but duty called. Then, a shock! Track six... what was it? \"Sitting in the Park\" arrested with a pop bassline straight out of a slow crooner from the 50s, and vocals to match. The one thing I can say about Quix*o*tic is that the vocal performances of the Billottes (they trade back and forth) were often quite beautiful, showing a great deal of range while maintaining enough ethereality to pass without a trace (if only the lyrics weren't so terrible). Christina's work on \"Sitting in the Park\" was astounding, and for once, the musical backdrop for her voice was up to the task. I wasn't surprised to discover, then, that it wasn't theirs. No, it was originally by Billy Stewart, and along with \"Tell It Like It Is\" by Aaron Neville and \"Lord of This World\" by Sabbath (Black Metal 4Eva!), it was in a class by itself from the rest of Mortal Mirror. Bad band, good covers, imagine that shock. O, Canada, you know I love you and I'm only trying to look out for you. Why did you do it? Why export Quix*o*tic and then stamp your good name all over it? Sure the covers are uniformly excellent, but that has a little something to do with the fact that they were written by other people. At the very least, it seems to me that if you listened to even one of the originals off this album, you'd want to keep your involvement as much of a secret as possible. It's not like you don't have plenty of fantastic national treasures to be proud of. It's misleading, anyway! Quix*o*tic are from Washington, D.C.! "}