{"label":" Ubiquity","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6530/homepage_large.b9303e9a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Quantic","title":"Mishaps Happening","text":" I've been waiting forever to write this sentence: Fela Kuti is everywhere these days. Fela's complex history, unwavering politics, and indelible musical legacy have created the kind of iconic anchor necessary to hold down an increasingly flimsy global culture. Thank Universal for beginning the flood of reissues in 2000: now Fela's dark continental grind and scathing socialist message are reaching more Western listeners than ever before. The dense, syncopated rhythms and lowend swell of Afrobeat currently tints almost the entire urban dance music palette, from revivalists like Antibalas to Common's hiphop highlife to Afrodub rockers Tussle. Obviously, electronic music's extended instrumental breaks are especially suited to the Afrobeat makeover; witness Masters at Work's sweaty, traditionally propulsive \"MAW Expensive (A Tribute to Fela)\" or Bugz in the Attic's buzzing brokenbeat remix of \"Zombie\" from 2002's Red Hot + Riot compilation. Ubiquity is perhaps a little late to the party, showing up with Bristol's Will Holland, under the moniker Quantic, doing his take on fouronthefloor Afrobeat and breezy Braziltronica. I've come to expect consistently fresh sounds from Ubiquity, and Mishaps Happening delivers a fair dose of their usual smoothedout California breaks/sunrise house cocktail. But when Holland dips his ladle into the Afrobeat bucket, he comes up lacking; watery production and hollow beats fall short of a potentially thunderous dance floor deluge. Maybe it's a state of mind thing, because with certain clues, a listener expects certain results. For instance, the shuffling rhythm, twangy guitar, and creaking sax that open the album have me anticipating an eventual knockout blow, which somehow never arrives. The polyrhythmic chatter, organdriven swagger, and crisp vocals on \"Use What You Got\" seem to prelude some kind of heavy climax, but again, we're left wanting. If he were to steer clear of these Afrobeat signposts, Holland might have a much more effective album that perhaps relies on standard touchstones but actually delivers. That's what we get at the album's midsection, which stands out with some interesting arrangements and wellcrafted songs. The funky \"Trees and Seas\" carries a blunted Thievery Corporation sparkle through another late night, while \"Angels and Albatrosses\", with its moody, distinctly downtempo sway, bobs along on waves of flute, marimba, and baritone, eventually leading to a satisfyingly serene resolution. \"Prelude to Happening\" combines a subtle, snaking bassline, rolling drums, somber strings, and eerie vocals into a sizzling midtempo reverie; Holland's production and songwriting skills shine through in this pretty, elegiac dirge. Holland's first two solo Quantic LPs received accolades from all the right tastemakers (Gilles Peterson, Richard Dorfmeister), and despite Mishaps' missteps, you can hear why. Philly soul vocalist Spanky Wilson gives a true school feel to \"Don't Joke with a Hungry Man\" and \"When You're Through\", while \"Perception\" delivers just the right amount forwardpushing velocity without veering into drumnbass histrionics. The closing tune, \"So Long\", is perhaps the stylistic bridge that Holland strives for throughout the album. I'm fairly certain that's banjo I'm hearing behind staccato strings, right after the dubbedout breakdown and Alice Russell's silky crooning. It's a sharply distinctive number that starts with a traditional break and lives up to its promise seven hypnotic minutes later. There's no sign of Afrobeat pretense here except for perhaps in its ardent grasp at funky forms and the song works beautifully. "}