{"label":" Screwgun","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/659/homepage_large.8ea36ebc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Tim Berne / Herb Robertson / Copenhagen Art Ensemble / Marc Ducret","title":"Open, Coma","text":" Back in the 80s, when John Zorn was namechecking hardcore bands and Tim Berne was making albums like Fulton Street Maul, you could assume that the downtown jazz scene had a lot of anger. Berne collaborated on Zorn's Spy vs. Spy, one of the most violent records of 80s jazz: two alto sax players destroying the compositions of Ornette Coleman by flaying them with skronky solos and pummeling drums. They were kicking off a punk/jazz revolution. Or so it seemed.In retrospect, no matter how loud or chaotic the John Zorn/Knitting Factory axis of musicians would get, the music was too brainy or too careful to be cathartic. Rather than combining hardcore with jazz, composers like Zorn ultimately handled it as just another style to mimic, alongside surf music or the works of Messiaen. In the case of Tim Berne, the cocky swagger of his horn and the snarly twists of his compositions arrived diluted. Even when Berne told his band to shred, there was still some chinscratching and careful treading not to mention that his collaborators might throw in everything but the kitchen sink by way of electronics and gadgets. He made some good music, but song titles like \"Unknown Disaster\" promised something stronger.And then came Bloodcount. In the early 90s, when Berne assembled this acoustic quartet, he finally had a band where he could create decisive and undistracted music played by inyourface virtuosos. Berne's smooth alto and rumbling baritone sax knocked against Chris Speed's keening, wailing tenor and clarinet; bassist Michael Formanek anchored the band, and nowlegendary drummer Jim Black kicked up a ruckus like a 300pound construction worker. Unwound still stands as Berne's masterpiece, with three discs of clear but raw recordings that conveyed every pound of metal and wood, and every drop of sweat. Here, finally, was a guy who deserved the right to print \"FUCK THE KITTY\" on an album cover.After starting his own label, Screwgun Records, Berne released several albums by Bloodcount and by his trio Paraphrase, an unusually taut and rhythmic free improv combo. His latest album, Open, Coma, presents his first recordings for big band: a twodisc set recorded with the Copenhagen Art Ensemble, plus his longtime associates Marc Ducret and Herb Robertson as featured soloists. And it's no surprise that for all the colors and nuances of Berne's and conductor Ture Larsen's arrangements, this band is primarily an instrument of force. The great Basie and Ellington orchestras could get just as raucous, but they also had elements of swing and \"cool\" that Berne has mostly dispensed with. At turns rowdy, gorgeous, and frantically overstimulating, it's an exciting performance of Berne's catchy and intricate writing.The four compositions on Open, Coma run between thirty and forty minutes each. That's not an unusual length for Berne, but it's still surprising how tight each piece sounds: there's no noodling or open spaces. Each track is carefully organized into solo, small combo and group passages. Berne can throw more catchy melodies into a single piece than many people write in their lives, and he uses as many as seven in the longest track, \"Eye Contact.\" This piece actually sounded mild and a little thin when Bloodcount (plus guest Ducret) first recorded it in 1994, but here, with a larger band, Berne is able to flesh out its beauty and aggressiveness, while still setting up some great solo features. If the players seem slightly uncomfortable speeding through the knottier group passages, they make up for it by slamming through \"The Legend of P1\" at full speed: the piece builds to rock music intensity, and then segues to a rowdy burlesque just add dancers. \"Impacted Wisdom\" is a little looser, with sections like a calm middle part that emphasizes flute and muted trumpet. The title track, which is the newest piece and the only one that debuts here, has gentler transitions, and fewer contrasts and changes: the horns swell in waves across the themes.The Copenhagen players are completely committed to Berne's concept, from the more lyrical solos of Lotte Anker on soprano sax or Peter Fuglsang on clarinet (the latter unwinding his instrument over drifting backgrounds), to the rowdier sections like the open horn improv near the end of \"P1.\" Thomas Clausen's piano accompaniment dances around the melodies, and his distorted Fender Rhodes adds a perfect rough texture for example, behind Ducret's solo on \"Open, Coma.\" Of the featured soloists, Ducret is a fascinating guitarist who has a rubbery tone he's derivative of Bill Frisell, by way of Gumby, but he's more willing to shred and make some nasty sounds. Herb Robertson is a phenomenal, extremely expressive trumpet player: his plunger work here is incredibly entertaining, as expected from someone who's known to take his trumpet apart in midsolo to get the sounds he wants. And as for Berne, his solos are inventive and tangled, wrapping around ideas like a rat snake. When he needles into the upper register it may make your ears hurt, but let him go: he's earned it. "}