{"label":" Rephlex","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6539/homepage_large.6c903f97.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Bogdan Raczynski","title":"My Love I Love","text":" You know those people in your life that you love dearly even though they know nothing about experimental music? They're the ones that said, \"This is weird,\" the last time you put My Bloody Valentine on the hifi. Normally, I just let these comments slide like water off a duck's back. I don't pick my friends based on musical taste, so I don't feel the need to explain why I don't find the music strange and how it all makes sense if you can get a broader understanding of the context it's created in. What's the point in arguing? Anyway, the other day, one of these loved ones walked in while I was listening to a new album for a Pitchfork review. The usual \"this is weird\" followed, but this time, I had a different response: \"You are absolutely right. It's fucking weird as hell.\" That record was Bogdan Raczynski's My Love I Love. I don't find myself saying such a thing very often, but this is one of those rare records that sits in my collection without clear reference points. The two Raczynski albums I previously reviewed were of the spazzy, drillnbass variety. It was competent music with a fresh angle on a familiar, Aphexderived sound. But this album seems related to what Raczynski has done before in only the loosest possible way. Instead of crushing breakbeats, My Love I Love is a 42minute tone poem about love and rejection as scored for accordion, trumpet, guitar and modular synthesizer. Beats are few (less than a quarter of the tracks have any at all), and several songs feature the offhand, offkey, just plain off vocal stylings of Raczynski. Like Richard James, Raczynski is not one to let tone deafness stand in his way of his crooning. The album's second track (all songs are titled \"My Love I Love\") introduces the template for the record. A droning accordion, propelled by a rare drum break, alternates between two chords before a sad trumpet melody duets with Raczynski's wordless singing (which, incidentally, is full of melancholy \"bababa's\" and \"lalala's.\" At the end of the tune, he offers, \"I love you, please don't make me cry anymore,\" mapping the thematic terrain. After the first listen, I had to ask myself if Raczynski, a cranky guy famous for his pisstakes and misdirection, was offering some kind of sendup of heartonsleeve trends in underground music. I'm still not completely convinced that he's not, which is scary to contemplate when you're writing a review. Somewhere, Raczynski could be laughing at me for feeling what I feel about My Love I Love. But I can't help it. This album gets to me. I think what I dig so much here is that Raczynski is going way out on a limb, trying to introduce new feelings into a genre that can seem, at times, emotionally constipated. In a Kid606 interview I read a while back, he was asked about upcoming trends in IDM. The Kid answered that he hoped music would continue to explore new avenues of expression, and he imagined that incorporating more vocals was one way it could happen. The Kid may as well have been talking about My Love I Love, because like it or not (and many will hate it, no question), this record definitely feels new and different. My Love I Love couldn't be further from how IDM is typically presented. There are no songs here called \"Atek9.447\" or \"cul/qurk\"; many of the sounds were recorded live; instead of pure geometry, the cover features a disturbing soft focus picture of Raczynski lying on a bed in the nude. Raczynski is swinging for the seats with this one. What it gets him will be a matter of some debate. One thing I don't think could be argued is that Raczynski manages to craft a handful of killer instrumental tracks, most of them lasting less than two minutes. Track 14 has a powerfully evocative melody, but it's played on a horribly distorted instrument, perhaps a distant relative of a piano that sounds an inch away from disintegration. Track 10 is only 51 seconds long, and contains a whispered Raczynski vocal that will turn off some mightily, but the vibrato keyboard figure is beautiful enough to merit a Boards of Canada comparison. The four or five tracks with accordion (most of these also contain some lowkey trumpet) help to give the record a sonic center, forging a solid connection with the world of film music. I don't pretend to know exactly what Raczynski is up to here; I can only say that I like it, and yes, I do find it moving. And weird. I realize some people will laugh in my face for saying so. For god's sake, don't look at the number above and assume you'll dig this record. Listen somewhere online first if you can (Raczynski's site currently has a couple samples). But you just might find yourself falling for it the way I have. "}