{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6548/homepage_large.6aab9459.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Radian","title":"Juxtaposition","text":" Although exquisitely composed and painstakingly constructed, your appreciation of Radian's third album, Juxtaposition, will almost solely depend upon your appetite for instrumental, electronicbased postrock. If you've had even trace amounts of it in your diet the past few years, it's unlikely that you'll find anything new or overly exotic here. So the only question is: Do you have room for more? Hailing from Vienna, Radian is comprised of bassist John Norman, drummer Martin Brandlmayr, and keyboardist Stefan Nemeth. As with 2002's Rec.Extern, the trio has brought in John McEntire from the Tortoise Institute of Percussive Arts (TIPA) to serve as engineer and midwife. In an apparent effort to sweep away all audio footprints, the group recorded and edited the electronic portions of these tracks in Vienna, then recorded the live bass and drum parts in Chicago with McEntire before stitching together the entire creature. It's a bit of a riddle why they bothered with this timeconsuming technique, since it hasn't appreciably altered their sound from past efforts. One has the nagging suspicion that for Radian as has too often been the case with IDM acts the process has become more important than the product. Regardless of what procedures they used, the results sound just fine if somewhat familiar to fans of Tortoise, To Rococo Rot, Pan American, or Radian's previous work. Despite the three musicians' activities in improv and free jazz, very little seems to have been left to chance on Juxtaposition. Each track is a deliberate layering of textures and elements, with every microtone sounding as fussedover as the sculpted icing on an elaborate wedding cake. With the origins of all sounds well obscured, \"Shift\" kicks the album off with what could be the promo music for a troubled TV news broadcast before the bass and drums join hands and finally settle into a satisfying lumber. \"Rapid Eye Movement\" begins with what sounds like the rhythmic whirr of a malfunctioning refrigerator, and then cycles through a pulsating series of ominous chords and steel wool abrasions. Elsewhere, they make pleasant use of a marimba (or the electronically manipulated approximation of one) and everybody seems to be getting along just famously until the finale \"Nord\" dumps you off unceremoniously at an undisclosed waterfront location while a blacksuited man with a mysterious attache case keeps drawing closer and closer. You're finally exited with a gradual hissout to silence. I don't know how much of the credit goes to McEntire, but the album's production is flawless. The drums in particular were recorded with an almost pristine clarity, and the bass' supple warmth keeps the finicky proceedings from getting excessively sterile. In fact, Juxtaposition is so well put together as a package that I would like to be able to recommend it without reservation. And for everyone who hasn't already had his or her fill of Radian's wellexecuted but toofamiliar brand of amusement, I'll gladly do so. "}