{"label":" Screwgun","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/661/homepage_large.eced7941.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Tim Berne","title":"Acoustic and Electric Hard Cell Live","text":" With its raw sound and straightforward title, Electric and Acoustic Hard Cell Live feels like a bootleg. If you ignore Steve Byram's fantastic cover art, it's easy to imagine this as a cassette labeled in handwritten scrawl: \"these are the good parts.\" Many of Berne's releases on the Screwgun label have looked like bootlegs live sets with his bands Bloodcount and Paraphrase came in cardboard sleeves but this recording of the Hard Cell trio feels and sounds rough. Two of the four tracks were captured by \"an ordinary person in an orderly manner\" (code for a guy up front with a mp3 recorder?) and Berne is basically advertising this disc as a chance to hear his bandmates blow the roof off. Berne has been generous with live releases of his projects, especially those from bands that never made it into the studio (again, Bloodcount and Paraphrase), and in the halfdozen live discs that he's issued on his own, he has yet to ship a dud. On the free improvisations of Paraphrase's Please Advise, the trio roamed like kids in a haunted house, slamming open new doors every few minutes. Ornery People, Berne's live duet with Michael Formanek, had the knotty diplomacy of two brothers arguing over a check. Almost none of Berne's compositions runs less than 10 minutes, and the players can race across the map a different way every time, banging through the structures with a spontaneity that merits alternate takes. Berne also has a knack for picking combustible performers. In addition to the bandleader himself, the Hard Cell trio includes keyboardist Craig Taborn and drummer Tom Rainey, each of whom played on Berne's 2001 recording The Shell Game. When you add guitarist Marc Ducret, you have the band that released Berne's most recently acclaimed studio disc, 2002's Science Friction. (Did you bring your scorecard?) Indeed, the repertoire on Hard Cell Live will be familiar to anyone who has heard Science Friction, but the compositions are only part of the focus: As previously mentioned, Berne wants to showcase his bandmates. Taborn and Rainey play each piece staccatissimo as they rattle together like rutting marionettes, switching from hammering patterns to improvised splashes while Berne squalls in the middle as the fulcrum. Even when Berne tries to angle a piece into a pensive section the other guys won't let him go, keeping him trapped in their crosscurrents. It's rare to hear Taborn play piano on this material, and the woodandwire sound knocks well against Rainey's tapdancer cymbals. The random blast of electric noise on \"Huevos\" is also a nice shock. All three men have played this aggressively before, but they've never cut an entire album at this pace. A recording of a complete show would have more archival value and Berne's bands are often as rewarding in the ebbs as the flows but that's not the point. The listener has the same experience flying through this record that the musicians had making it: How fast can we take this? What's around this corner? "}