{"label":" King Biscuit","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6581/homepage_large.31152a58.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Ramones","title":"NYC 1978","text":" The Ramones' legacy tends to shift. Depending on whom you ask, they can be desperate Warholwannabes, punk rock heroes, meatheaded geniuses, fey performance artists, and the greatest American band of all time. But no matter where you finally land on the relative worth of the Ramones (or of New York punk in general) it's hard to argue that NYC 1978, the band's newly released, \"straight from the archives\" live recording, does anything less than showcase what the Ramones were truly great at: marrying the melodies and harmonies of early 60s powerpop with exuberant, metalhead ferocity, pounding out fast, lovable punk songs and making black leather jackets forever badass. NYC 1978 is the Ramones properly recalled, long before the halfhearted Lollapalooza tour and lifeless Adios Amigos, back when they were still teeming with wild, youthatplay adrenaline. Because even though twentyfive years have passed since the Ramones recorded NYC 1978, they're still the best worst band ever. 2003: The dirty, shamefaced admission that seems to float, unspoken, between contemporary punkers is that all of the Ramones' songs sound (whisper now) pretty much the same. But while it's hard to wholeheartedly welcome the legions of blankfaced, blackjeaned followers who have since embraced the band's, um, pithy songwriting philosophy, there's still something awfully charming about the Ramones' particular brand of redundancy mostly because the Ramones themselves don't seem so in on the joke. NYC 1978 crams 27 threechord songs into 52 minutes (no freewheeling guitar solos, no guest players, and not a whole lot of witty rambling), the band all the while remaining seemingly unaware of a pacing that sounds, at least to 21st century ears, entirely absurd. To amplify the inherent preposterousness of NYC 1978, check what they don't tell you on the cover: It was recorded on January 7th, 1978, exactly seven days after the 197778 New Years' Eve show in London that later became the Ramones' other seminal live release, It's Alive. The real kick in the pants is that the tracklists for the two records are almost identical, save the one additional cut which sneaked onto It's Alive (the probable \"Judy Is a Punk\" which, incidentally, is not so thematically different from \"Sheena Is a Punk Rocker\" or \"Suzy Is a Headbanger\"). Both albums plow through what are arguably the Ramones' greatest hits (showcasing some of their last work with Tommy on drums), culled from their first three historybooked records, 1976's Ramones and 1977's Leave Home and Rocket to Russia. You know what to expect: the fistpumping twist of \"Blitzkrieg Bop\", the dumb, singalong fun of \"Rockaway Beach\", loads of simple, thrilling guitar crushes, and Dee Dee hollering as many 1234 countdowns as he can choke out. If you already own It's Alive (and you should), know that NYC 1978 is exactly the same songs, played in the same way, in the same order, by the same four people. Completists could point out some quibbles (Johnny's guitar seems to wander out of tune far more often on NYC than it did on It's Alive, and It's Alive was mixed by Tommy Ramone himself, whereas the comparably anonymous Glen Robinson mans the boards here), but the Ramones weren't exactly renowned for unforeseen live explosions, and for the most part, the only palpable difference between these two shows are their respective locales. But when the location in question is the pregentrification east side (the Palladium on 14th Street), and the band is the Ramones, setting suddenly becomes a lot more relevant than you'd think. The effects are subtle, and mostly peripheral the deepness of the hollers, the frenzy of the applause, the slightly nervous, beginningoftheend toetapping. So even if NYC 1978 ends up being one of the least essential Ramones releases of recent years, it still deserves credit for placing the band back in the belly of the only city that could have ever spawned them. "}