{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6589/homepage_large.a58213f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Random_Inc","title":"Walking in Jerusalem","text":" Could anything in music be more inevitable than a glitch backlash? When a technique with an extremely specific application gets transformed into a \"movement\" it's bound to eventually lead to some seriously boring records and an indifferent audience. On the evidence of its most recent Clicks & Cutscompilation, Mille Plateaux seems to sense that academic glitchforglitch's sake may have run its course, and it set its sights on more popfriendly waters. Still, the techniques in glitch canbe used in service of amazing music when the artist has an understanding of context and a commitment to holistic design. Case in point: Walking in Jerusalem by Random_Inc.  Walking in Jerusalemis a concept album, as sure as anything Rick Wakeman ever dreamed up. It's about the city of its title, a beautiful place with a long history, a fragmented place brimming with tension. Some of these tracks are sourced from field recordings Sebastian Meissner (who works as Random_Inc) made inside the city; about half the tracks are named for her neighborhoods, which are revealed in detail on the map of the city painted onto the CD itself. The sounds of Jerusalem, both real and imagined, form the backbone of this record. In addition to the field recordings, traditional Middle Eastern instruments are sampled and manipulated, giving Walking in Jerusalemthe kind of ancientworldmeetspostmodernismdynamic that Muslimgauze perfected. To convey the tradition, splendor, distortion and confusion that are Jerusalem, Meissner utilizes some of the familiar glitch processes (lots of static, musical fragments chopped to bits and reassembled, and so on) to serve the larger idea. The application to this subject couldn't be more appropriate, and the result is one great record. The bulk of the proper tracks are remix collaborations, while 11 interludes consist mostly of field recordings. Guests include Electric Birds, Tim Hecker, UltraRed and Dub Taylor. The meetings between Meissner and his collaborators on the figurative streets of city (tracks titles are named using the dub tradition, i.e., \"Random_Inc Meets the Rip Off Artist in Har Hazofim\") lend diversity to the record, which remains singular through its concept and the consistent sound palette. The track in collaboration with Tim Hecker, for example, finds the seam of tension inside the fabric of glowing static in much the same manner as the finest moments of Hecker's  Haunt Me, Haunt Me, Do It Again  . \"Random_Inc Meets Electric Birds in Mamillah\", not surprisingly, uses a more subtle approach, as a curtain of noise sways lazily in the distance to the pulsating sound of synth pads that seemed derived from some sort of Middle Eastern instrument. Meissner's solo pieces reflect the work of a skilled electronic composer. \"Random_Inc Entering Jerusalem (Coming from the West)\" is almost unbearably tense, as a looped doublebass riff juts up against metallic percussion and random sounds from the street, signaling the approach of menace. \"Random Inc Entering Jerusalem (Coming from the East)\" delivers on that threat, with a dense, atonal web of sampled classical that takes the sound of a string quartet and reassembles them completely wrong, a wheezing contraption that sounds like it's going to hurt somebody. The vinyl version of \"Walking in Jerusalem\" is apparently a completely different album, one geared toward the dancefloor using the microhouse techniques on display here on \"Random_Inc Meets Dub Taylor in Mahane Yehuda @ 4:30 p.m. (On April 12, 2002)\". It's amazing how well this appropriately strippeddown and clubbedout track works in the context of this abstract record a nod, perhaps, to our collective imagination of Israeli nightlife. No matter what  kind  of track Meissner has in mind, it works as a piece in this larger puzzle, a testament to his thoughtful design.  Walking in Jerusalem  should be listened to closely, preferably in one sitting. The uncanny sense of movement and immersion as one track slides seamlessly into the next gives the record the feel of that thing that has been such a cliché, the \"aural film,\" the movie without pictures. As long as the techniques can be applied to moving art such as this, I say Long Live Glitch. "}