{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6594/homepage_large.9af6166d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"T. Raumschmiere","title":"Radio Blackout","text":" Bang bang buzz buzz gob gob growl: this is going to be one of those reviews where we just damn the cynical torpedoes and talk about how cool someone is. Someone whose music is all bangbuzz gobgrowl happygolucky techpunk bounce, slathered with burnedchunky motor oil from evil cartoon dumptrucks and yet in very little need of any prettyingup. This particular someone: Marco Haas, recording as T. Raumschmiere. And this particular album: a pretty good one. Raumschmiere's notable skill is this: he rocks out. Not in a mean way, or anything there's a friendly, invitingly deranged quality to his jumparound brutalism but the guy certainly likes to make fouronthefloor a snarly, happy, fistraising experience, and it's said that his live shows are energetic enough for audiences to fear for the safety of his equipment. Here on Radio Blackout, we come across what just might be the crown to his linesofar of joybanging singles and especially remixes (of Goldfrapp, Komëit, 2raumwohnung): \"Monstertruckdriver\", the track one imagines led the New York Times itself to compare his music to \"a monster truck rolling through a rave.\" (And this was even after they resumed doublechecking to make sure their stories were, like, true: you can't argue with that.) \"Monstertruckdriver\" is the Raumschmierian tech single in its pure form it kicks in with the shuffling glam beat that's infected plenty of folks on his own Shitkatapult label; it brings in steady blurts of the grotty bass speedbump he clearly loves; the lead comes in buzzy, but bounces melodically like he got the idea from Sesame Street. You know those heavy metal devilchickonmusclecar animations? It's like that, only without the bad metal. The thing about Radio Blackout: more than the sterile, precisionmolded minimal techno of last year's Anti, and more than the clunkier brute scraping of the previous year's The Great Rock'n'Roll Swindle, this is Raumschmiere as the readyforprimetime singles artist. It opens fairly dirty and streamlined, but in a preparatory way; \"Monstertruckdriver\" revs up in the second slot. \"Someday\" wanders rather prettily around a slowcreeping beat, taking its techtweaking and IDMtype rhythm variations at a casual pace; \"The Game Is Not Over\" sort of reprises \"Monstertruckdriver\" at four, only now with the usually flatvoiced Miss Kittin pouncing and sneering over it in a way that's scarily reminiscent of Adult.'s Nicola Kuperus. (\"Highway rock and roll disaster!\") The back and forth that leads through the first half of the album dancefloor exciter, subtler moodpiece, and repeat is so simple it just does work: I think Raumschmiere's got my attention span matched nearexactly. Not that there's anything wrong with the mood pieces the title track, just floating ambience and ghostly radio static, is a great lull, and \"Drown in the Sea While Watching the Stars\" pulls off a nice combination of sultry vibe and metallic scraping. It all just hangs together surprisingly well, full of interesting diversions: \"Rabaukendisco\" pairs a great big rock grind with screaming saxophones; \"Wir Kinder Vom Bahnhof Strom\" and \"Querstromzerspaner\" offer some terrifically assembled midpace techno for a return to the dancefloorappropriate; \"A Million Brothers (Blah Blah Blah)\" even takes a curiously okay shot at hiphop, though the \"blah blah blah\" might as well apply to guest MC Soom T's hearditbefore criticisms of government. (She's from Glasgow, and this track is a bit too much like Tricky once the paranoia started slowing down the creativity.) At its most interesting, Radio Blackout lets Raumschmiere do exactly what an album should let him do: work around whichever edges of his terrific singles sound aren't entirely appropriate for a club floor. I'm sure the folks at Mute are damned happy with that, and I am too it's nice to hear a fulllength that captures what the man's known for quite so efficiently. "}