{"label":" Hefty","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6595/homepage_large.91bc7e5b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"T. Raumschmiere","title":"Anti","text":" Berlin's Marco Haas has a perfectly interesting birthname and yet he records as T. Raumschmiere. He's released material for venerated Cologne imprint Kompakt and on his own label Shitkatapult (brilliant name, that), and with Anti, he makes his American debut on John Hughes III's Hefty label. Don't let the Kompakt affiliation fool you into thinking that T. Raumschmiere has a fondness for warmth or accessibility. Anti's minimal techno is cold and precise, the aural equivalent of a brushed chrome examining table in a Bauhausstyle hospital. Like the furniture in our examination room, Anti is so ordered and clinical that any detritus is thrown into sharp relief. In this glitchy musical age, we celebrate dirt instead of cleaning it up: The detritus becomes \"melody.\" And there's a fair amount of dirty melody on Anti. The record starts off with a track called \"Random Noize Musick\" that's about as random as an atomic clock, all tightly sequenced beats, static hits every other bar, and, it must be said, some pretty interesting sounds bobbing around in the murk. It's dark, a bit menacing sounding, and pretty addictive at high volumes. \"Substrom\" sounds a lot like Pan Sonic as it brings a bit more funk in the form of a bouncier nearhouse beat and a slowly bubbling bass synth. \"Leichtes Kratzen\" is slow, verging on sensual, with a latenight organish synth pad and absurd, butterflykiss electronic handclaps. On \"Eroslung Durch Strom\", Raumschmiere explores explores the claustrophobia that comes with complete blackness in a manner similar to Plastikman's Consumed, with a murky kickdrum that seems to come from inside your head somewhere and an ominous, repeating melody. Darker still is \"Dual Kanal,\" which processes and then loops a frantic passage of clustered strings, stretching them thinly between electronic handclaps that this time seem like a slap. There is some variety here despite the intentionally anemic nature of the production, and Raumschmiere demonstrates a range of darkly shaded moods. But despite its obvious strengths, I'm hardpressed to identify anything particularly unique about Anti, something that might make you pluck this particular record from the swollen ranks of minimal techno releases. One almost wishes Raumschmiere had brought the noise just a bit more, so that the discord might provide the textural raw material that could be shaped into something that stands out. I'm reminded of the name of Andy Warhol's cable television show: Nothing Special. "}