{"label":" Kindercore","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6602/homepage_large.a8ae96f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Camilo Arturo Leslie","artist":"The Real Tuesday Weld","title":"Where Psyche Meets Cupid","text":" Before Tuesday Weld became trivia game fodder, she was the disarmingly cute female lead of such 50s and 60s trashcinema throwaways as Rock, Rock, Rock and Sex Kittens Go to College. Nature takes its course, though. Starlets grow old, beauty fades and cuteness wilts, and, well, now Tuesday Weld is just an obscure bandname, albeit one with an ironic qualifying prefix \"(The Real\") is tacked onto the front end. (The Real) Tuesday Weld is nothing more than London native Stephen Coates, a recent art school dropout and huge Serge Gainsbourg fan. He's also a hopeless nostalgic, obsessed with 1930s jazz and other ancient recordings. In a quixotic attempt to recapture the wafting and ephemeral quality of the prohibitionday records he was exposed to in his youth, Coates has tacked big band samples onto electronic beats and backgrounds, laying down breathy vocals and glib lyrics over the hybrid. And in the end, Where Psyche Meets Cupid is a 15track concept album of stuff that, surprisingly, doesn't suck. The opener \"Am I in Love\" asks the question, \"Am I in love with my love, or myself?\" over a musical amalgam both eerie and cheesy of a crackly, submerged bigband horn samples and 70s electric piano tinkling. The result simultaneously reminds me of Foghorn Leghorn, the ballroom scene from The Shining, and the Andrew Sisters' \"Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy from Company B.\" \"I Love the Train\" takes the same basic musical material, but brings a canned dance beat to the fore, resulting in something acutely contrived, yet catchy and effective. Elsewhere, \"At the House of the Clerkenwell Kid\" is an instrumental track that I wouldn't have known was a studio pastiche if it wasn't on this record, and the charmingly titled \"Terminally Ambivalent Over You\" combines an ascending ukulele chord progression with a sexedout Rhodes keyboard. Annoying fauxscratch turntable sounds mar the composition ever so slightly. \"The Birds and the Bees\" is one of the album's better tracks, coming off like a Brazilian rendition, at half speed, of some John Barry score that never found its way into a Bond film. \"Déjà Vu,\" playing on the haven'tweheardthisbefore theme that is the bedrock of Coates' playful genrebastardizing, is short and sweet and, like the sensation itself, quickly forgotten.Where Psyche Meets Cupid is best listened to in its entirety. Taken individually, the tracks are as likely to make you raise your eyebrows in disdain as they are to pique your interest. It's as a whole that the album is actually somewhat affecting. The sequencing is superb, and there's a weird elegance and smoothness to the compositions that almost neutralizes the inherent silliness of combining Gatsbyera record loops with 21st century keyboard beats. Oh, and I promise I will never mention Foghorn Leghorn in a record review ever again. Ever. "}