{"label":" Arborvitae","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6620/homepage_large.9e835120.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Red Shirt Brigade","title":"Home of the Cannon Saints","text":" In the spirit of full disclosure, I should start off by saying Red Shirt Brigade are Pitchfork advertisers, keeping us staffers in turtlenecks and knickers well into the new year. But this palmgreasing in no way affected my estimation of Home of the Cannon Saints, and I can, with a clear conscience, say that this is THE BEST ALBUM OF ALL TIME and Red Shirt Brigade are BETTER THAN THE BEATLES... hell, they're even better than Badfinger.(Okay, boys, how's that for quotes for your press kit? On a completely unrelated note, I accept Paypal and credit cards payment through Billpoint, just so you know.) All sarcasm aside, this actually is a pretty damn good album. Not groundbreaking or revolutionary, but intelligent, full of hooks, cheesy yet fun keyboards, and a lot of energy that manages to steer clear of angst or emoboy whining. It's the kind of solid album you listen to on a cold winter's day and easily get lost in its bright, unaffected exuberance and forget about your worries for awhile. Death Cab for Cutie's Chris Walla produced Cannon Saints which goes a long way toward describing Red Shirt Brigade's sound. They display the same kind of smart melodicism and rhythmic variety that keeps things consistently interesting, even though they're operating within a relatively narrow framework that is, punkish pop/rock played on bass, drums, guitar, and keyboards.Home of the Cannon Saints starts off with a minutelong drone before the first proper song, \"Thugs with Venom,\" which is album's best track. Tempo changes flow gracefully from one to the next, and bright, angular guitar lines are balanced with genuine fistpumping moments of distortion and riffage. It's accessible without being watered down or simple. In a kinder world, it might even make commercial radio. But Cannon Saints doesn't blow its wad right away; there are other pleasures to be had here. The very next track, \"Later on in the Whole Word,\" with its waltzing rhythm, somehow brings both Nirvana and Wings to mind, in the same way that Dismemberment Plan sounds like both Genesis and James Brown. Likewise, \"Years of Skulls,\" sounds like an imagined Dave Brubeck foray into modern rock with Morrissey at the mic: very precise, almost cold, but infectious, its melody setting up shop in your brain and staying there. Dismemberment Plan offers a good overall point of comparison to Red Shirt Brigade's sound. The young band obviously took notes while listening to Emergency & I, expounding on the feel of the Plan's masterpiece and capturing a lot of its energy without sounding too derivative. But while the Dismemberment Plan is fronted by one of the most charismatic and creative singers in the biz, Red Shirt Brigade lack a similar strong, confident leading personality as yet. But, then again, on the Dismemberment Plan's debut disc, Travis Morrison hadn't really found his voice yet, either. And that's the feeling Cannon Saints leaves you with: a lot of potential, but just not quite there yet. "}