{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6625/homepage_large.13310bac.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Spencer Owen","artist":"Red Stars Theory","title":"EP [2001]","text":" Red Stars Theory now have four official CD releases under their belt, which proves that they really want to be something other than \"the side project with that awesome drummer from Modest Mouse.\" Okay, so frontman James Bertram may be the exbassist for 764HERO. And yes, 1999's Life in a Bubble Can Be Beautiful may have defined the Red Stars Theory as the premier purveyors of indie dreamrock, complete with lingering effects, languid guitars, laidback grooves and a fulltime violinist. But damned if it won't be a long time before respected indie kitrocker Jeremiah Green isn't mentioned within seconds of the band's name.Now that all that's out of the way, let's talk about their second, and latest, selftitled EP. It's comprised of two outofprint releases a Deluxe Records 10\" and a 7\" from RxRemedy both recorded by Calvin Johnson way back in the group's infancy in 1995. It represents the earlier sound that followed through the band's 1997 debut, But Sleep Came Slowly, if more guitarbased and less dynamic than the stratospheric tones introduced on their sophomore effort. While not new by any means, newborn Theoryheads everywhere can solace in the fact that these longunavailable tracks are finally seeing the light of day again.Unfortunately, this release seems as if it could be suitable only for those completists. The EP opens with the original recording of \"Broken Neck,\" the final version of which can be found on But Sleep Came Slowly. Granted, it's a pretty good song, as the version on the LP proves with a much fuller sound and tighter instrumentation. But like the rest of the tracks here, it sounds thin and flat; although not lofi enough to warrant pigeonholing, it nonetheless comes across as muddled and lifeless, utilizing only the dead center of the EQ spectrum.The following three tracks from the 10\" drudge along at a similar slow, middling pace. Bertram's vocals whine just a little more than usual, sometimes crossing the thin line between endearingly nasal and intolerable. It's hard to recommend something when the only moment that truly gets your attention is a brutally incompetent and mercifully brief guitar \"solo\" in the middle of the instrumental \"Think Piece.\" Not even Green's drumming is particularly noteworthy.The record closes with the two tracks from the 7\", distinguishable in sound from the previous four only by slightly increased tempo and slightly harsher guitars. \"Castle Rock\" contains the best moment thus far, a brief passage with a snare cadence, whispered vocals, and slick lead guitar, which appears to save it from being a clone of the preceding song. But then it segues into its final minutelong segment, which begins dissonantly and gradually becomes increasingly more so, ending the EP on a painful note.Currently, Red Stars Theory's best release is Life in a Bubble. Bertram stays off the microphone more than usual, letting the subdued, harmonizing guitars, lilting violins, and Green's masterful beats speak for themselves. This EP is not a good introduction to their work for the uninitiated, and hardly essential for fans of their later output. Hardcore completists, if they indeed exist, will buy it no matter what. For the rest... hell, just listen to your Modest Mouse records. "}