{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13367/homepage_large.9511c142.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Kearney","artist":"Red Stars Theory","title":"EP","text":" The cover of Red Stars Theory's first album, 1997's But Sleep Came Slowly, is largely comprised of a blackandwhite photograph of a room with a wood stove, a modest lamp and a bed with a wrinkled blanket draped over it. The cover of their sophomore release, Life in a Bubble Can Be Beautiful is even more sparse. It's a photograph of a cloth, perhaps cotton or wool, with \"Red Stars Theory\" stitched in white along the border of the two competing colors of the cloth: brown and dark red. So what the hell is with the brightblueandpink lamb, knotted scarf and all, hopping on the mintgreen cover of their new EP? Album covers can serve many purposes, of course, but artists usually create covers that they feel are visual encapsulations of their album's theme. Those artists who aren't striving for thematic unity which is often because they haven't got any simply want cover art that fits their sound and image. Covers, therefore, also act as signifiers, which often double as warnings that, for instance, their sound and ideology have changed. But this is just an EP, so what does one make of its odd, surprising cover? Well, don't worry. This fivepiece outfit which features 764HERO bassist James Bertram and Modest Mouse drummer Jeremiah Green haven't gone Elephant Six or anything. The first track of this foursong, 30minute EP, \"And Often Off Again,\" is the original version of \"An Alarm Goes Off,\" the closing track from Life in a Bubble that was \"constructed\" for that album by Sientific American. Not surprisingly, this version is shorter (although still over six minutes long) and more rockoriented. The guitar frolics comfortably in the foyer while the edgy violin and swirling atmospherics remain in other rooms on other floors. Although the subtle digital manipulations are missed, the song builds a palpable and rewarding momentum absent from its slicedup offspring. The following track, \"Our Nearest Neighbors,\" was recorded during the Life in a Bubble sessions, but left off the album. God knows why. Had it been included, it would have made for one of that record's strongest numbers which speaks volumes when considering that Life in a Bubble was easily the most underrated postrock record of 1999. After two minutes of a guitar walking in circles and classical arrangements of cello and violin encouraging, Bertram sings, \"We're almost home/ A few more blocks.\" It's all so comfortable until he continues, \"When we get back/ There's gonna be a lot of fighting and curse words.\" And at this point, the song's torso is ripped open, guitar strings stretching and snapping like weak tendons. The track best exhibits Red Stars Theory's unique strengths: to harness the emotion of emocore without indulging in the maudlin lyrics; and to exercise the artistic grandeur and complexity of postrock, but without the cold detachment and pretension. The EP's third track is a remix by Sientific American of Life in a Bubble's \"Parts Per Million.\" Eerie, atonal whirs (à la Boards of Canada) open the number, soon accompanied by pockets of static and a crisp guitar. This song's original version only becomes recognizable when, two minutes in, the familiar stringed notes rise out of the murky digital cutting board. The violin and cello are soon distorted and eventually suffocated by guitar interjections, hollow drums and exponential bleeps that inevitably define the song as an electronic, but organic, auditory trip. The final number, \"Boring Ghosts,\" is another remix by Sientific American from a song off the previous album. That song, unfortunately, was Life in a Bubble's only truly weak point (let's just say it was aptlytitled). While this remix is similarly aimless, a wavering hum and other indecipherable sounds lend the song more depth. So, instead of a short, boring song, we're offered an eightminute, Enoesque ambient jaunt that's perfect to listen to while, say, sitting against the stone wall of the main terminal at Grand Central at 6:00pm on a Friday. So how, then, does the record's cover make sense? The fuzzy, carefree lamb reflects the somnolence of Red Stars Theory's dreamlike movements through space, as exemplified by the first two tracks. But, while soft and inviting, the colors are nonetheless off: lambs aren't pink and blue. The comforting image of the lamb has been visually manipulated, but remains equally comforting, albeit in a more surreal way. The same could be said for the remixes that make up the latter half of this EP: the pleasant music has been cutandpasted, but it hasn't lost its pleasantness. Or maybe they just thought it would be funny to put a lamb on the cover. "}