{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6629/homepage_large.259de20d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Stephens","artist":"Lou Reed","title":"Transformer","text":" Being Lou Reed in 1972 was a raw deal: two years after walking away from one of the greatest and most influential bands in rock history, he found himself a penniless, strungout wreck, with a career suddenly and seriously on the wane. To make matters worse, his selftitled solo debut, released earlier that year, was a monumental flop, a hastily thrown together collection of second rate rerecordings of Velvet Underground outtakes that lacked the intensity and focus of his earlier music. Reed was at a crossroads, unsure of which direction to take his newfound independence. At the same time, a new trend was emerging across the pond. Glam rock began to flower in 1971, and by the following year had swept up countless British kids, turning them from restless, discontended youths to consummate, androgynous hipsters decked out in platforms, sequins and imposing hair. It was the first mainstream rock movement to openly acknowledge the Velvets' influence, and in Marc Bolan, Ian Hunter and Bryan Ferry, Reed began to see his protégés: the coarse, primal rock 'n' roll he pioneered had found its audience. One of his progeny, a young David Bowie, was hot off the success of his charttopping The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust, and was perhaps the most vociferous in his love of the Velvets and the incalculable influence they'd had on his music. When given the chance, Bowie and guitarist Mick Ronson offered to produce Reed's solo followup: what followed was undeniably one of both glam rock's and Reed's finest moments, one that gave him a leftfield radio hit and a blueprint for much of his solo work to follow. Thirty years on, Transformer still sounds startlingly fresh, free from many of the clichés that taint other similarly minded records of the period. It also works as an interesting diversion from most of VU's work: where they clearly had a fullband aesthetic, and often leaned toward the avantgarde, Transformer took the strong pop undercurrent that ran throughout their records and indulged. It's still fascinating to hear Reed outside the messy underproduction of the Velvets, yet even with Bowie and Ronson broadening the arrangements, Transformer feels remarkably natural. Their production work was so loaded that, were it not for the incredibly focused songs beneath, it might have been overbearing. But with a solid base, the ornate arrangements help bring these songs to life, lending Reed's music a broader palette. Lou himself, by contrast, sounds as intimate as ever on the record's more sedate tracks, crooning in a sensitive lilt that maintains his blissful, effortless cool.Transformer kicks off with the aptly titled \"Vicious\", a stiff, snotnosed Godzilla of a rock song, decked out in leather and eye shadow, and drenched in the kind of punchy power chords intimately familiar to anyone owning VU's oddsandsods compilations. Its gleefully tongueincheek lyrics are among the album's highlights, with Reed's impetuous condescension beating down his subject's ego: \"When I see you walking down the street/ I step on your hands and I mangle your feet/ You're not the kind of person that I even want to meet.\" Elsewhere, \"Perfect Day\" earns the distinction of being among the least characteristic songs Reed ever wrote; while its power ballad production and melody are enjoyable on their own terms, the song feels trapped under his dry vocal delivery, and falls somewhat flat as a result. \"Satellite of Love\" is still the bizarrely affecting centerpiece, serving as a poignant reminder of Reed's underrated gift for melody, which often eclipsed the signature, visceral abrasiveness he's more often recognized for. And of course, there's \"Walk on the Wild Side\", the classic tale of NYC genderbending that garnered Reed the only real commercial airplay of his career. This new edition adds acoustic demos of \"Hangin' Round\" and \"Perfect Day\", the latter notable for a newfound emotional push in its minimalism. The remastering is nicely executed, clarifying the sound without bastardizing the occasionally dated production. This, along with the incredibly thorough liner notes and beautiful packaging make the reissue worthwhile for those who already own the record, and a must for firsttimers just delving into Reed's solo work. "}