{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6632/homepage_large.68cc8001.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Lou Reed","title":"NYC Man: The Collection","text":" To one man, everything Lou Reed has ever released is absolutely perfect. And if his interviews are any indication, that one man is Reed himself. His vaunted intellectualism has always afforded him a final, unbreachable line of defense when one of his albums is subjected to criticism I mean, who are we to detract from Lou Reed's epic vision? We, the insipid, the shortsighted, could never truly grasp the depth of artistry that goes into even the most seemingly hackneyed tracks from Ecstasy (particularly that of \"Like a Possum\"), to say nothing of the deep harmonic layering in Metal Machine Music. \"If you had a small mind, you'd miss it.\" You said it, Lou. \"I've been rewriting the same song for a long time. Except my bullshit is worth other people's diamonds. And diamonds are a girl's best friend.\" See, only Lou Reed can criticize Lou Reed; fortunately, he has only the kindest things to say about himself. He's been maligned for not understanding what he does best, and inadvertently playing directly into his weaknesses as a result, but I'm more inclined to think that he just doesn't care what other people believe his perceived strengths to be. It almost makes me wonder why he bothered at all to handselect and remaster the 31 tunes included on NYC Man, especially when such effort has been made to include material from even (to my \"small mind\") the worst of his later work. Here, studio versions of numerous megaclassics are replaced with live renditions, often denying listeners even that small pleasure of listening to these tracks with some small degree of studio clarity rather than strippeddown, emotionally dead reprises. About the only unpleasantry he's spared us is sixteen minutes (and one second) of grating feedback er, I mean, deeply embedded classical melodies to represent Metal Machine Music. Still, like any of the greatest Roman emperors and European monarchs knew, the wrath of the mob is something to be avoided, and so the King of NYC condescends to include basically all the songs that will send still send him to the front of the line when rock's judgment day arrives most of which appear as live versions. \"Sweet Jane\"'s gloriously faded core progression is one of the single most rippedoff blasts in rock and roll; the harrowing epic \"Street Hassle\" still sets a standard in orchestral rock augmentation that few bands can even dream of approaching. The transcendent helplessness of \"Caroline Says\", the sultry decadence of \"Walk on the Wild Side\", the sweet fuckall of \"White Light/White Heat\" all the songs that have been included on every other Lou Reed compilation are here, too. In some sense, the decision to include live takes of many of these songs would be preferable to offering yet another studio copy of \"Heroin\", if only Reed's lackluster, \"I'd rather be anywhere else\" live performances didn't so consistently wither in comparison. To give the man some deserved credit, though, it's hard to produce a \"bad\" version of a song as genuinely perfect as \"I'll Be Your Mirror\"; it may be diminished here, but fundamentally, it remains one of the brightest jewels in rock's crown. And so it is for all of Reed's most brilliant moments. The bad news is, there's more here than just his most memorable work. Now, to state that many of Lou's later albums are awful is certainly subjective on some level, but I sincerely doubt there's a person alive (well, aside from Lou) who'd be pleased with any collection that attempted to sum up his career by including any songs at all even just one, as this compilation does from rockbottom tragedies like Mistrial, Ecstasy, and The Raven. Unfortunately, after the necessary inclusions, that's about all he can do. So, rather than excise \"Rock Minuet\", the studioalternate of \"Who Am I\", or any of the other relatively uninspired works of his later albums, and focus instead on his equally incredible, but more commonly overlooked 80s work or shit, just limited this thing to one disc he wildly overreaches. All possible opportunities for cohesion have been denied here at the expense of the implicit notion that all Reed's work is created equal. It ain't. But you know what? Lou really was a genius (maybe still is). Even if his decisions make much of NYC Man a baffling ordeal, as albums go, the canonical rock and roll might contained in some of his greatest triumphs, even in secondrate form, save this album from the guillotine. Such is the scope of his songwriting skill. This is Lou's career, all of it from The Velvets to The Raven as it could only make sense to him, 3\\xBD decades crammed into less than 3\\xBD hours. Take away any sort of chronology and then attempt to find representation from every release he ever crapped out, and all that's left is a strungout, confusing mess that could have turned out a hell of a lot better than it did. A hell of a lot like Lou, actually. "}