{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6657/homepage_large.f0b03883.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Req","title":"Sketchbook","text":" Here's a fun piece of Pitchfork trivia: though they've released more than 100 albums since the late 80s, there's not a single Muslimgauze review in the Pitchfork archive. It's a matter of timing, really. Bryn Jones died before our site started covering electronic music in a serious way, and the labels he recorded for (Extreme, Staalplaat, and many others) never happened to appear on the promo radar. So until a massive reissue project gets underway, the official artist website remains the definitive source for information about the mysterious Muslimgauze. I bring up the late, great Muslimgauze not because of all the interesting things happening in the Arab world (is anyone else almost glad that Bryn Jones didn't live to see the postSeptember 11th political landscape?), but because I hear something familiar in this excellent new album by British hiphop aficionado Req. It's not the tone, but the method that strikes a chord. Muslimgauze was so prolific in part because his pieces tended to be simple in construction. They were often built on the foundation of a single perfectly crafted loop, over which Jones would splatter bits of noise and various dubderived mixing effects. Req also gets serious mileage out of a lone repeating loop, and he shows a similar affinity for a rough and ragged analog sound laced with simple melodic motifs. There's a spirited rawness to  Sketchbook  that's both disarming and immediately engaging; though elements feel familiar, the tone here is striking and unconventional. Hiphop is an obvious touchstone, but even the most minimal hiphop production feels thick and cluttered next to Req's naked approach. Though Req has released two albums via big beat imprint Skint, on the evidence of strange and wonderful  Sketchbook  , he'll surely feel much more at home at the more experimental Warp. A handful of interesting Aphexian ambient interludes pop up on this record, but the rhythm tracks are its heart and soul. Some of these pieces consist of nothing but a tomtom, a bass drum, a hihat and the faintest hint of a chord. \"Dolby C\" could almost come from a break record, such is its relentlessly strippeddown approach to rhythm. It's uncanny how a track so \"not there\" can remain so inyourface and hypnotic. Just as good is \"Upstairs,\" with its rusty, Brian Decklike junkyard beats and a strange vibraphone melody repeating periodically. The percussion on these tracks is bonedry and bass heavy, with a thud that hits like a fist to the solar plexus. When Req decided to add more elements to this sound, his inspiration can come from anywhere, which keeps the record exciting. Not tied to any theme or style, the pieces are free to veer off into uncharted textural territory. \"Sketchies Death Track\" adds a shaker, a Chinese gong, and a thumb piano to a loose, tribal beat, and \"I Seek\" is fatbottomed hiphop with an ominous threenote piano riff that would do the RZA proud. \"Something\" is nothing more than a closely miked drum kit, some kind of melodic percussion bit, and a sample of a vocal drone somewhere deep in the background, while \"AMPEG 18 KHZ\" is a seriously compressed funk beat with hand percussion, and some odd accordion stabs. The development throughout each track is slight but effective, always keeping you tuned in to hear what happens next. I've no doubt  Sketchbook  will be too coarse for some folks, but there is something special happening here. Most music even most great music consists of slight variations on wellestablished themes, and it's difficult to find an album that sounds truly new.  Sketchbook  is such a record. "}