{"label":" The First Time","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6681/homepage_large.904ba362.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Ride","title":"Waves","text":" You can count the great shoegaze bands on one hand, because most of those blurry, twirling romantics were terrible in concert. Even compared to their most talented contemporaries My Bloody Valentine, Pale Saints, Swervedriver and Chapterhouse at the start Ride were far and away the most exciting live act the genre produced. Their major radio broadcasts that first, promisefulfilling Peel Session, the Town and Country Club gig in 1991 and a defining set at the 1992 Reading Festival are fetish properties for their fans, and frequently outshine the band's studio albums in their coiled energy. Though the T&C; gig hasn't been released (yet), Waves makes available the second of these three gems, after the limited threedisc version of 2001's OX4: The Best of Ride, which included the Reading show in its entirety. Wisely leading with the same explosive Peel Session performance of \"Like a Daydream\" that made them the talk of England's music press, Waves is sequenced chronologically, and predictably suffers from the same splitpersonality disorder that ruined the band (and the aforementioned retrospective). After the first ten tracks of sunny bliss (forgiving a sluggish, rote run through of \"Dreams Burn Down\"), the record veers into the irksome late60s garage guitars and flowery Byrds progressions heard on their divisive lateera records Carnival of Light and Tarantula. But in one case, the expected underproduction of liveinthestudio recording works to Ride's advantage: the infrequently noted (but frequently recorded) \"Walk on Water\" makes an affecting swan song for the group's first era. Among the first batch of songs written after 1992's masterpiece Going Blank Again, \"Walk on Water\" was demoed for two straight years before finally ending up on Tarantula in somewhat muted form, playing like a loose end tied. There's a superior, moodier rendition left off this compilation, from their July 1994 Mark Radcliffe session (which is otherwise included and closes the disc), but that Cureish, punchier take is discarded in favor of Waves' 1993 Mark Goodier performance for good reason: it marks the first time it was ever recorded. In this more upbeat, boxy production, you can hear everything Ride was, and see signs for all the paths you wish they had taken after Going Blank Again. Instead, Ride rode the awful 60s organs of \"Since Then\" and \"Crown of Creation\" before diving headlong into the twanging rock and roll solos heard in \"I Don't Know Where It Comes From\" and the overt Byrds worship of \"1000 Miles\". As with \"Walk on Water\", these lightweight, dirtier recordings are miles better than the staid studio versions you may or may not have heard already, but they're difficult to recommend, even as nostalgia. Though on paper Waves is a bit heavy on the postC86 shoegaze jangling of Ride's early days, the raging versions of \"Like a Daydream\", \"Perfect Time\" and \"All I Can See\" blow the tepid, reverbed studio recordings on their first two EPs (available as the Smile CD) from the water. Though \"Here & Now\" another great cut from their second Peel Session is regrettably missing, the band's earliest songs actually upstage the two tracks from their landmark 1990 debut Nowhere. They also made smart nods to the independent circuit (as well as Peel himself), covering two 4AD tracks: Pale Saints' \"Sight of You\" (from that band's own superb 1990 debut The Comforts of Madness) and, somewhat strangely, the Dead Can Dance track \"Severance\" from 1988's The Serpent's Egg. Both are refurbished to approximate Ride's established sound, internalized the way the best covers must be in order to work. The band's selections for their March 1992 Mark Goodier session were telling: While extremely tight and energetic performances (\"Mouse Trap\", especially), the three most traditional rock and roll songs from Going Blank Again (four, actually: \"Making Judy Smile\" didn't make it onto Waves) are another indication of which songs the band preferred versus those their fans cherish. Spiraling shoegaze anthems like \"Leave Them All Behind\", \"Twisterella\" and \"OX4\" (as well as the infrequently performed, genius album track \"Time Machine\") don't seem to have been the band's favorite live cuts, and while it's perhaps a function of fitting four threeminute songs into a 15minute radio broadcast, in retrospect it seems the shorter, 60sinfluenced lullabies they'd pursue until their demise in 1996 may have been an underlying current throughout their career, rather than a dam bursting in early 1993. As the art of live performance is increasingly devalued, and shoegaze is more and more revised to mean effectsdrenched, precious spacerock a la Slowdive, Waves fires a broadside to right the ship before the genre sinks into goth waters, a fine introduction to some of the best shoegaze material on record and a convincing case for what could be one of the most crucial British rock acts of the 1990s. "}