{"label":" The First Time","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6683/homepage_large.ba8a65a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Ride","title":"OX4: The Best of Ride","text":" Ride were plain gauche in 1990. Their sloppy selftitled and Play EPs borrowed as heavily from the Cocteau Twins' guitar work as they did the unbearably selfaware C86 sound, but at the time the rest of pop music was so bad, it didn't matter. While some critics couldn't bear another technically substandard batch of shambling mopes staring at their shoes, just as many scribes got behind them; armed with a frenetic young fanbase charged by Madchester and ascendant British cool, the band (mostly teenagers themselves) sold an astounding number of records. Of the first two EPs, \"Chelsea Girl\" and especially \"Like a Daydream\" were explosive standouts, but the overlong \"Drive Blind\" like much of the early material goes nowhere at a snail's pace; that it was their first Top 40 hit is due entirely to hype. Thankfully, any middling doubts regarding substance and acumen were more than answered by Fall, the band's third EP, which landed them a huge deal with Sire Records and served as a stunning preamble to the album that, along with My Bloody Valentine's Loveless, came to define shoegazer as a genre: 1990's Nowhere.Nowhere is a cherished memory for anyone that grew up tunedin to alternative music in the preNirvana 90s. For all the talk of another British Invasion, there were only two records released prior to Nowhere that could shoulder such acclaim: The Happy Mondays' Pills, Thrills and Bellyaches and The Stone Roses' debut. Subpar, overhyped albums from The House of Love, Soup Dragons and Jesus Jones failed to convince us there was anything heavenly or threatening on the horizon. But that fall, the bells rang out, and the twilight sky exploded: \"Vapour Trail\" ripped holes in the hearts of thousands of teenagers, and still does. Ride only recorded one other song that could approach the grandeur of its breathtaking finale, the most forlorn, alluring moment in UK guitarpop since The Smiths laid down \"Well I Wonder\". A record like Nowhere undermines a greatest hits compilation: It can't be reduced to three or four representative tracks, because the entire album serves as the band's true greatest hit. But technically speaking, Ride skirt screwing with their legacy, as two of the three OX4 tracks from Nowhere \"Taste\" and \"Dreams Burn Down\" appeared on the 1989 Fall EP, and \"Vapour Trail\" was a relatively huge US single, packaged with tracks from 1991's stellar Today Forever EP. If only they'd broken up in 1993, Ride could like Tony Wilson claim they never sold out. If only. Released in March 1991, Today Forever seemed like a ploy to keep Ride's good name in the trades, but incredibly, all four tracks rivaled the majority of Nowhere. \"Unfamiliar\" is included here, and more importantly, the oncerare EP was wholly appended to the 2001 reissue of Nowhere, making that impossibly grand record impossible to pass up. With huge expectations leveled against them for their sophomore fulllength, Ride holed up with Alan Moulder, recording 25 songs they'd use to construct Going Blank Again, a record of remarkable depth. In its unheralded variety, and its capacity to shatter the blurry, hazy caste to which critics had resigned them, Going Blank Again is in many ways Ride's finest hour. Leading with the vast, eightminute anthem \"Leave Them All Behind\", Ride paid homage to a band whose support helped them in no small part: The Cure, arguably the biggest band in England in 1990. Aside from the unmistakable, tributary breakdown, \"Leave Them All Behind\" was a firestorm of psychedelic guitar, relegating My Bloody Valentine's gentle waves to the afterparty. Thankfully, OX4 includes the song in its entirety, rather than the atrocious edit dashed off for radio play. And speaking of radio play, there's no chance they'd forget \"Twisterella\", the stupefying, tooadorable second single from Going Blank Again. The term \"jangle\" has never been more appropriately leveled against a song; it reduces the disparate elements of twee and C86 into one glorious 3\\xBDminute anthem, a sickeningly sweet, heavenly pop hit. Where Nowhere is sacrosanct, Going Blank Again can be done justice in summary. Sadly, OX4 shortchanges the album, overlooking the superb cuts \"Mouse Trap\" and \"Time Machine\" (the 2001 reissue of Going Blank Again added four bsides, including \"Grasshopper\", one of Ride's most overlooked, elaborate songs). The Nowhere and Going Blank Again reissues contain everything that earned Ride a small place in music history; OX4, on the other hand, houses songs from the two albums that obliterated the band's standing with any and everyone. When OX4 was first released in 2001 (as a threedisc box set with live and rare tracks), everyone bent over backwards to put a good face on what happened following Going Blank Again, to gloss over the obvious fact that Ride sold the fuck out. Don't whitewash your sin with the \"we got married\" excuse, guys: America ruined you forever. Few bands have tanked as badly as Ride did in 1994 with the atrocious Carnival of Light, a record that wore the band's pathetic intention to compete with Oasis on its sleeve. The first anyone heard of Ride in exactly two years was a sycophantic rock'n'roll jam about a \"Blackbird flying in the sky,\" and I'm hard pressed to think of a band that has fallen more painfully on its aboutface than Ride does on their cover of The Creation's \"How Does It Feel to Feel?\". The utterly harmless R.E.M. drivel \"I Don't Know Where It Comes From\" capped off 1994, the year Ride's minor drug use and pretendhedonism saw their dreams burn down. They broke up the same week their disastrous final album Tarantula was released, which was a mistake, because the breakup worked to promote something they shouldn't have recorded in the first place. \"Black Night Crash\", Ride's last single, is a sad, feigned punch from frustrated lightweights, a song that aims for bombast but musters all the rancor and rage of a halfassed Primal Scream demo.OX4 (Oxford) serves only to underscore Ride's lateera crimes. After two brilliant albums, their creativity splintered during an exhausting American tour (on which they were inexplicably convinced of the Black Crowes' greatness). With their label Creation preparing to launch Oasis, Ride tried to enlist in the advancing Britpop ranks, to become the somber Rolling Stones to these new Beatles. In their youth and insecurity, Ride turned their backs on two albums of soaring, original guitar rock that wipe the floor with anything Oasis ever released; why they'd want to remind everyone of that mistake is beyond me. "}