{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6689/homepage_large.bdbc81af.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Rip-Off Artist","title":"Pump","text":" The liner notes of Pump discuss the \"gutwrenching loneliness and frustration\" that comes from being stuck in the middle of nowhere, working alone for long stretches of time, discouraged from associating with others. Apparently, prior to making music, Matt Haines The RipOff Artist worked for an offshore drilling operation. Or so the notes claim. But then, the liner notes on Haines' previous albums would have you believe him to be an android, an inventor of MIDIbanjos, and a collective of satirists during the Nixon administration... you get the idea. Bust out the grains of salt. Still, when Haines talks about isolation, about \"working for weeks at a time in twelvehour shifts, surrounded by the constant din of sea and machine\", I do believe that he speaks from experience. After all, this is a man who makes music with a computer, and as Haines himself puts it, \"Pop music is hard work.\" Listening to Pump, that much is obvious. Anything that changes direction this often must've been hard work. Though I do wonder about the lazy application of the word \"pop.\" The thirteen songs here (which are, for no apparent reason, split into 69 tracks) traverse a wide range of styles and an even wider array of sounds and genres. Truth be told, I don't know what to call Pump. It's electronic to be certain there isn't a single organic sound to be found here but outside of that broad disclaimer, it's hard to peg. Pump's roots are clearly in house music: more often than not there's a clearly discernable 4/4 beat, marked by repeated drum patterns and sounds which creep in then back out a few times over the course of a song; minute details that appear, then disappear, one by one. Meanwhile, Haines cycles through a seemingly endless catalog of goofy electronic noises which suggest everything from 60's library music to oldschool Warp Records to kids' toy samplers. \"Swage Nipple\" (supposedly, named after a piece of machinery used in the offshore oil drilling industry) begins by matching a basic house formula (4/4 drum machines, four tones which switch between ascending and descending with each bar) with a crunchy, distorted rhythmic track. But before the listener can really put his finger on anything, the elements fall away one by one, leaving behind skeletons which drift around in the leftover sonic residue. The next few minutes are purely ambient, contrasting the eminently danceable opening tracks. There's some traditional keyboard noodling, a few bleeps and bloops, the sound of synthesized wind in the background. And then the a few of the random blips begin to accumulate, to lump together, to form the beat that kicks off \"Ball and Swing.\" A headnodding, glitchladen clickhop song that would've fit just right on last year's Electric Ladyland comp, \"Ball and Swing\" practically cries out for some twisted MC's input, before giving up the search and heading in yet another direction. Haines revisits this idea later in a song called \"Eye of the Impeller,\" which opens with a loop of garbled rhymes, only to get pelted by a rainstorm of MIDIsamples and clicky percussion. You've probably heard most of the sounds here before. Haines has a propensity toward goofy PerreyKingsley style stuff pure electronics. As such, you'll find no garbled field recordings or electroacoustic dallying here this is all right from Haines' hard drive. And yet, despite recent trends toward the inclusion of acoustic instruments in beatdriven stuff, Pump is by no means a step back. Unlike so many artists working with a mouse and monitor today, Haines' music is identifiably his own. The RipOff Artist has a decidedly unique take on traditional electronic music, one that is danceable, yet equally engaging to the mind. It's the sort of thing that'll play just as well on the dance floor as it will in any of those distant, isolated places where all these weird sounds come from in the first place. "}