{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6700/homepage_large.353ef435.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Stephens","artist":"Sam Roberts","title":"The Inhuman Condition EP","text":" It is a magnificent if woefully rare treat to hear a record that begins with two songs as startlingly different as \"Don't Walk Away Eileen\" and \"Brother Down\". The former, an endlessly endearing Whostyled garage sendup is first rate, singalong rock and roll, performed with the kind of fervor that will have you unwittingly air drumming on your lap before you know it. The latter is a conversely sedate, street poet acoustic jam, set to a remarkable, insightful set of Dylan musings. Together they form an obvious microcosm of The Inhuman Condition, a hugely promising debut EP from Montreal's clearly uninhibited Sam Robert. This suave twentysix yearold singer/songwriter has enjoyed surprise success on Canadian radio with both of the aforementioned cuts, and might soon be treading water in his own hype. For the time being, though, The Inhuman Condition remains an unusually assured first outing, one that while far from being another Odelay paints the picture of a young artist adamantly refusing to be pigeonholed. The bases covered in a mere twenty three minutes are impressive; whether it be mixing the aggression of \"Don't Walk Away Eileen\" with a touch of rockabilly on \"When Everything Was Alright\", or adding an almost psychedelic climax to \"Where Have All the Good People Gone?\", Roberts even at this early stage of the game has his mind all over the map, giving him a wealth of options for the future. Perhaps the best part of The Inhuman Condition is the level of cohesion it manages despite its diversity; Roberts has developed his music enough to give it an identity, which will certainly be his greatest asset when it comes time to record a debut full length. Well short of perfect, The Inhuman Condition loses steam on its last two songs: the droning chant \"My Love is Freeing\", while it features a soothing overdubbed vocal, gets a little tedious, and the countryStones closer \"This is How I Live\" is far too tongueincheek to be taken seriously. Fruitless, learning forays like this will no doubt wind up shelved if Universal opts to record a fullfledged major label debut based on his recent NorthofAmerican attention. As it stands, Roberts says enough in the six songs here, but leaves countless avenues to expand his already broad range of sound. A followup with a little more cohesion and consistency would be nice, but The Inhuman Condition is nevertheless a sturdy, respectable and, intermittently, even thrilling first effort from an artist who has much to say, and the exceptional talent to say it in such a short length of time. "}