{"label":" Swim Slowly","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6701/homepage_large.330fbf4f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nicholas B. Sylvester","artist":"The Robot Ate Me","title":"They Ate Themselves","text":" Within a very particular circle of the Internet, advertisements for The Robot Ate Me have been popping up maybe as frequently as the ones for the X2 spycam or Highschoolgraduates.com. The album came out in December 2002, and the label that released it, San Diego's quasiexperimental Swim Slowly, has presumably spent thousands of their own dollars pushing the band as hard as humanly possible. And just like I bought that spycam and caught my wife cheating with some dudes from the office, my decision to drop cash on They Ate Themselves has been one with some pleasant surprises. The Robot Ate Me, according to the band's label, is \"a band out of San Diego, CA that writes happy and sad songs with wit and ease. They use guitars, old synths, accordions, horns, toys, power tools, organs, and pretty much anything that makes a sound.\" Unfortunately, when those toys, accordions, and old synths take over like an Xrated Toy Story 2, The Robot Ate Me is an utter disaster. Yet somehow, this very same lofi collective, when at its least pretentious and power toolish, becomes starkly compelling, and their album becomes indescribably moving. Drums and synth wisps of an abbreviated Mount Eerie sort open \"Our Bones Were Chalk\", halted abruptly by the simple, honest croon of vocalist/guitarist Ryland Bouchard. Bouchard remains accompanied only by guitar for a short time, until the rest of the band enters forcefully, disrupting the song's former solo guitar delicacy, all while Bouchard maintains his own gentle and wavering saysing. The accompaniment slowly and artfully diminishes as the song reaches its end. \"Our Bones Were Chalk\" in many ways typifies many of the album's tracks: a textbook (if not somewhat cliched) lofi introduction is followed by a series of abrupt changes in rhythm, volume and texture consistently contraposed against Bouchard's vocals and necrocentric, yet impenetrable lyrics, and finishes with a fadeout instead of a clearcut ending. The album's title track follows this pattern, but bears the distinction of being far more expertly executed, drawing comparisons to The Walkmen. \"What We Thought Was Fog\"'s gripping tale of, from what I can gather, a fatal car accident, is perhaps even more indicative of The Robot Ate Me; all actions are intended to exact a grave and emotive response from the listener. When The Robot Ate Me avoids its \"this is how good and interesting lofi music sounds\" tropey schtick, the album offers its finest moments. \"A Harp (...And How You Cut My Strings)\" is simply beautiful. Its lyrics are touching yet smart and refreshingly ironic, and Bouchard's vocals melt seamlessly amidst a lush string line. \"Everyone Was Still\", for all its semiirritating apocalyptic lyricism, has one of the most memorable hooks on the album (\"I searched through bodies, but only found change\"). But even in moments like this, it's difficult not to be somewhat distracted by the lingering air of cold calculation and despicable pretension. One imagines The Robot Ate Me deciding over tea that elements X, Y, and Z comprise \"good\" and \"interesting\" music, and choosing, like musical sophists, to write a song that exists solely to execute these cleveries. The second track, \"Tied to the Car\", has all the gimmicky and soulless trademarks of The Robot Ate Me's songwriting formula gone awry. Perhaps most egregious is the song's performative lyrics: immediately after Bouchard sings, \"I waited for a knife to cut loose,\" the song changes rhythm and intensity as if to act out musically how Bouchard would \"cut loose.\" Performative lyrics can be an immediate indicator of how much thought has gone into a musical composition (i.e. lots), but when done poorly, as unfortunately often happens on They Ate Themselves, the affectation irritates. The same goes for the lame onomatopoeia of \"In the Fire\" (\"crackle crackle crackle\"), and the spacey and unnecessary electronics of the sadly Dashboardlike \"After the War\" easily the most offensive song here. When all is said and done, They Ate Themselves is frustrating. Its best songs are truly wonderful those rare instances of musical beauty that have the ability to transcend the undergroundpopular divide while maintaining some semblance of \"cred.\" Its worst songs, however, seem to embody everything truly disgraceful in indie pop. It's a give and take: waiting out the worst of it yields fantastic rewards, but whether that's worth $10 is up to you. "}