{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6703/homepage_large.7ff2149b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The Robot Ate Me","title":"Carousel Waltz","text":" The Robot Ate Me's new LP, Carousel Waltz, is dominated by folky ballads that occupy a somber but hopeful emotional space. That approach suits The Robot Ate Me better than you'd think if you've heard the maniacally diverse They Ate Themselves or the experimentation of On Vacation and if you're a listener who chucked the first half of On Vacation, it's almost like this record was made with you in mind. The instrumentation here is almost ordinary compared to The Robot Ate Me's previous work, with nearly every song played with acoustic guitar and muted horns. The band is stingy with its arrangements, bringing in the simplest bits of melody or rhythm only at the most necessary moments. \"Where Love Goes\" is a nearbaroque guitar strum that drops everything for some evocative woodwinds, sounding as if someone snuck Sketches of Spain in with the band's Phil Elvrum records. The same is true of \"Lately\", which interrupts its sober gallop with a repeating horn figure that adds both rhythm and a bit of swing. The songs may not all be a barrel of fun, but many are hopeful: \"Bad Feelings\" hints at redemption even as it sings \"she's been feeling pretty bad about life,\" and the upbeat tracks are wellalternated between the darker meditations on love and regret, like with...\"Regret\", a gentle folk song that declares, \"Regret won't change who you are/ Unless you take its lessons too far.\"Carousel Waltz drives a pretty flat road, without the peaks and valleys of their previous work, but that suits the grounded emotions and realizations they're addressing, skirting the line between the unaffected and mundane. They teeter on the edge with lines \"I never thought that love was real until she came\" or \"Let's just love each other and hold on tight,\" but the tight arrangements coupled with Ryland Bouchard's creaking voice are consistently charming. On Vacation isn't quite what The Robot Ate Me made it out to be last year: We'd like it to be reckless and indulgent experimentation or nothing but brightlycolored Polaroid highlights, but we're more often left with a lot of time to kill to just sit around and think. Carousel Waltz is the product of just that, the summation of thinking long and hard about where you're headed, and it's a braver and more honest record than anything they've done to date. "}