{"label":" Headhunter / Cargo","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6710/homepage_large.75077d67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Rocket from the Crypt","title":"Circa: Now! +4","text":" Rocket from the Crypt's Circa: Now! was the band's sophomore album, originally released by Cargo/Headhunter Records in 1993. You'll recall that, in the early 90s, major labels seeking to emulate the runaway success of Nirvana were signing every promising indie band they could get their hands on, and Rocket from the Crypt's distinctive blend of meatandpotatoes rock, raging punk, tattooed and pomaded greaser style, and kitschy Americana must have fit the bill. Interscope took the bait, and the record was a minor hit, garnering college and commercial radio play, and even MTV videos for \"Ditchdigger\" and \"Sturdy Wrist\". But the circumstances of the signing remain shrouded in mystery, as RFTC has an odd propensity to fill their press releases with apocrypha: The band hilariously claims to have signed to Interscope for $70 million, and sold the label the rights to rerelease Circa: Now! for an additional $32 million, which reveals RFTC as an ambitious band that doesn't shy away from a publicity generating hoax here and there. And who could blame them for doing whatever it takes to separate themselves from the horde? Allegedly, Interscope asked RFTC to record four new songs for their rerelease of Circa: Now!, but got tired of waiting and released the record with its original tracklist intact. Regardless of whether this is fact or another red herring, it's certain that there are four neverbeforereleased tracks on Swami's reissue (hence the \"+4\" in the title). The original and bonus tracks have all been remastered from the original quarterinch transfers, and profit from the hifi yet dirty tone. As Circa: Now! +4 is an early album in a long and storied career that's seen the band amass a devout cult following (as well as for frontman John Reis' other projects, the seminal posthardcore band Drive Like Jehu and its modern scion, Hot Snakes), it lacks the polish and realization of vision displayed by later albums like the Interscopefunded RFTC, but is solid nevertheless, and resolutely pointed in the direction RFTC would eventually take: distorted, sneering vocals; deep licks of pummeling bass and revving guitars; and brassy saxophone flourishes galore. Drony and propulsive at once, with more midtempo swagger than can be found on their ampedup later fare, Circa: Now! +4 might even be preferable to the more refined later work to listeners who like to take things a little slower.Circa: Now! +4 opens with \"Short Lip Fuser\", a deviation from the prevalent loud/soft dynamic of its grungy era. It's just fucking loud, a sonic embodiment of the screaming headache I'm nursing as I write (occupational hazard: why couldn't I be reviewing Low today instead of Chris Ott?). It's a dramatic and pacesetting start, with a rawboned opening riff that gradually accelerates through a morass of feedback to find its counterpoint and lock on to the marshal cadence of the drums, before suddenly DOUBLING IN VOLUME with an effect akin to that of opening a rock club's door midset. (By the way, before you write in to point out my selfcontradiction, the correct volume signature here is not loud/soft, but loud/LOUD. Make a note.) \"Hippy Dippy Do\" represents the rockabillyish side of RFTC, with its initial, flashfried guitar figure going up and down like a rusty zipper, then jamming up in little tangles of pop/punk chugging. The uncharacteristically mopey \"Ditchdigger\" (by the Swami's turban, is this Social Distortion covering Jawbreaker?), with its regal, harmonicladen ice sculpture of a melody, is an early standout, as is the swaggering dickwalk of \"Hairball Alley\". The first bonus track, the seemingly underdeveloped \"Lamps for Sale\", does become more engaging when a fleeting horn line and upperregister guitar enliven the uninspired riff. \"Crazy Talk\" is more distinctive, with pointillistic drills of tightly controlled thrash pinioned by rigid percussion, a lively vocal melody, and hairraising reiterated rock breakdowns. The bonus tracks are rounded out by the lubricated, unfettered thrust of \"Flight of the Hobo\" and pop/punk prototype \"Over the Rail\". As I said: solid. Rocket from the Crypt may get a kick out of duping the press, but their music ain't no joke. Pitchfork's former resident RFTC booster Nick Mirov is gonna be sewing a new Rocket patch on his bowling shirt for this one. "}