{"label":" Morphius / Smog Veil","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6712/homepage_large.e0922a5c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Rocket from the Tombs","title":"Rocket Redux","text":" When most old bands reunite, they have a real history. A couple of albums, maybe some EPs or seveninches to their name a discography that they crafted in their initial time together. Frequently, it must be said, these reunions do much to tarnish the legacy of their discography. But what happens when a band whose history is primarily the stuff of legend, and whose discography is mostly unofficial or pieced together from disparate sources, reforms to take another shot at something that never fully coalesced in the first place? If this album from a reconstituted Rocket from the Tombs is any indication, great things. Rocket from the Tombs were originally only a band for about 200 days in the winter of 1974 and the spring of 1975, but what transpired in that condensed period was intense, and helped to plot the course of punk and postpunk a couple of years before either of those phenomena reached the mainstream. Part of what makes Rocket from the Tombs such an intriguing piece of rock arcane is that, as a band, they were lacking in a singular vision and direction rather, each member had his own ideas about where ideas and songs should be taken. This tension naturally ripped the band apart at the seams, and in the process, spun off two of Cleveland's greatest groups, The Dead Boys and Pere Ubu. However, the music written under those circumstances was a fascinating mélange of rock convention and restless experimentalism. Most of it never made it to tape in any kind of fully realized state although both Ubu and The Dead Boys held over a few songs from the Rocket from the Tombs repertoire for their own catalogs instead surviving only in the form of crude demos and lofi live recordings made in the lofts of Cleveland as the city rusted outside. Two years ago, we were finally treated to an official compilation of existing Rocket from the Tombs recordings, in the form of The Day the Earth Met Rocket from the Tombs, a hardly comprehensive but nonetheless invaluable and muchneeded document that helped to flesh out a chapter of the punk story that had only previously been sketched in lightly. The surviving band members couldn't help but notice the warm reception this disc received, and now, nearly 30 full years after they were written, Rocket from the Tombs have finally made a proper album out of these tunes. Calling it Rocket Redux is somewhat accurate, but frankly, the flippancy of the title doesn't do quite enough to recommend the album, which is as vital and energetic as any of their past recordings, although with much better sound. The fact that these guys are all in their 50s now is astounding: David Thomas (who performed as Crocus Behemoth in his RFTT days) is still as deranged and surreal a vocalist as ever, and with the grit that original tombsters Cheetah Chrome (aka Gene O'Connor) and Craig Bell put into their respective guitar and bass playing, it feels like scarcely a day has passed. Current Ubu drummer Steve Mehlman subs for Johnny Madansky, while Television's Richard Lloyd fills the void left by late guitarist Peter Laughner, perhaps the band's most visionary member, tragically felled by a drug habit in 1977 at 25. (Ironically, Laughner was once a candidate to replace Lloyd in Television). This potent lineup spins through 12 Rocket from the Tombs originals, and it's easy to make the case that this is actually the best starting point for the curious seeking to check out the band. Laughner's amazing ballad \"Amphetamine\" could go toetotoe with any Springsteen anthem from the same period, and is made all the more crushing by Laughner's references to premature death. Thomas' delivery on this track is remarkably restrained, and you can tell that this performance means just a little bit more for him than the punk raveups that surround it. Of course, those raveups are all excellent, with demented guitar interplay strangling \"Down in Flames\", while \"Never Gonna Kill Myself Again\" reveals itself as a close cousin of Mission of Burma's \"That's How I Escaped My Certain Fate\". Elsewhere, \"Final Solution\" jitters and twitches, its crumbling melody (which heavily references \"Summertime Blues\") held up by adroit guitarwork, and eventually, spooky backing harmonies. The guitars drip with passion on \"What Love Is\", as though Lloyd is trying to prove he belongs, while Thomas' refrain of \"Ain't it fun when you know that you're gonna die young?\" (penned by Laughner) comes out haunting and almost resigned. The highspeed punk bookends \"Frustration\" and \"Life Stinks\" are frenzied and brutal, and the sound is like a punch in the gut compared to the previously available version.Rocket Redux never sounds like a complacent reunion record, and in a way, I suppose it's not really a reunion record in the first place so much as it's a debut album, played with all the hunger and fire of a band eager to make their mark on the world. Rocket from the Tombs have already done that, of course, but I'm glad they came back to give it one more go, because the result is an album anyone investigating the roots of punk should have one that finally completes the band's chapter in rock's great book. "}