{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6716/homepage_large.9cc8f927.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"The Rogers Sisters","title":"Purely Evil","text":" After enduring years of postNirvana malaise, it seems as if rock critics once again know what to get uniformly excited about the highenergy, nofrills rock spilling out of New York City. Seeing as how the press is unable to focus on more than one entity per fad, the receptacles of all that is supposedly great about the Big Apple scene is The Strokes, who have thus far produced a lone album of exciting yet hardly fulfilling music. And obscured amidst this mushroom cloud of hype is The Rogers Sisters, a Brooklyn band that has now matched The Strokes' output with their debut, Purely Evil. Media wonderment aside, the New York sound is nothing terribly new. The recycling of late70s CBGBs has been chugging along since there was anything to recycle, which might explain the discouraging familiarity of The Rogers Sisters. Purely Evil sounds as if it should be fresh and daring, yet disappoints to the considerable degree that it settles for copping what was fresh and daring a quartercentury ago. The record plays like a warmedover Blank Generation, an album of a type that tends to give more light than heat to its many imitators. Though they can't be faulted for their pedigree, The Rogers Sisters are certainly camping out in the canyon between good influences and good results, offering few real reasons for their record's existence. This shortcoming stems from more than just a lack of originality. Rather, the Sisters deplete the good will they build up through their meaty sound and magnificent production flourishes with a countervailing immaturity that largely overshadows whatever else they accomplish. Anyone expecting credit for decrying the easy targets The Rogers Sisters take on with their cover art (SUVs, Martha Stewart, and that king of standby punching bags, George W. Bush) should be required to take a vow of silence, at least until a Democrat reassumes the presidency. Music trumps any issues of style, of course, but in this case, the latter proves to be a faithful indicator of the former. While the Sisters thankfully avoid any smarmy antiDubya rants in their songs, they seem as if they're making music more for how it looks on paper than how well it slides into the ear. Their minimalist aesthetic, embodied most fully by their simplistic and recurring lyrics, just doesn't work out here. It sounds as though they were attempting to either mock the repetitiousness of pop music or push it through to some kind of minimalist trance, but they succeed at nothing so much as irritation. Lastly, no one in the band appears to be a skilled enough songwriter to consummate the teasing potential of their jagged, metallic sound. There are fine elements in Purely Evil, but no one should hold their breath waiting for them to come together. "}