{"label":" Rubric / Woronzow","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/678/homepage_large.9cd5daf0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"The Bevis Frond","title":"Valedictory Songs","text":" I was always a bit perplexed by the fact that \"lofi\" was given credence as a genre. I mean, sure, the layers of tape hiss and analog crust did give lofi music a unique sound. But it seemed to be an utterly superficial distinction, and one which had little bearing on why I was such a big lofi fan for so long. I mean, Bee Thousand is one of my favorite albums of all time; it could've been produced by Todd Rundgren for all I care. The songwriting was the only ingredient necessary. Notice how much of that is in past tense. The perhaps illtitled lofi genre has all but disappeared. Just pop in the latest album by Pavement, Sebadoh, or Guided by Voices for proof. Or the Bevis Frond. That's right, Valedictory Songs, Nick Saloman's first record on Rubric, is thoroughly produced no hiss, no clipping, no crust. What's more, the record is Saloman's first studio release in years that includes touring band Andy Ward and Adrian Shaw, whose instrumentation on last year's live Frond record proved them more than technically proficient. When I received Valedictory Songs in the mail, I was hoped desperately that it would be an album every bit as good as Saloman's last two solo outings under the Bevis guise, the irrepressibly cool North Circular and Vavona Burr. Both of these records are testaments to Saloman's sick talents both as a guitarist and a songwriter, chock full of insanely catchy melodies, airtight grooves, and enough heavy riffage to keep a Sabbath fan satiated. Saloman also demonstrated a knack for penning compelling organdriven ballads, as well as the occasional 10minute anticorporation/music critic rant. But the truly remarkable aspect of Saloman's work to date isn't the ground it's covered, but the fact that it's been so consistent. Valedictory Songs doesn't break this mold; it's a fine rock record in every possible sense. Nary a weak moment to be found, in fact. But it lacks the strong moments, the backbone of past efforts.Valedictory Songs finds Saloman in more balladheavy territory than on previous releases. \"High on a Downer,\" \"The Speed of Light,\" and the midtempo, '70sinspired \"Early Riser\" certainly tread closer to \"monster ballad\" status than anything Saloman has done in the past, due in no small part to the syrupy, multitracked vocals. And while all of the ballads on Valedictory Songs are undeniably wellwritten, never succumbing to soppyass lyrics, they just don't have the distinctive edge of other Frond recordings. The album does have a few damned fine rock songs on it, though. The opener, \"Godsent,\" chugs along on a typical Saloman guitar riff, beating '70s rock at its own game. \"China Fry\" swaggers on a slideguitar riff and a \"you fuckin' ingrate\" chorus that will bring a tear to the eyes of those who miss the days of T.Rex. As a rock songwriter, Saloman is simply unstoppable. Sadly, the lack of musical momentum on Valedictory Songs suggests that he may be slowing down. My suggestion? Take two shrooms and record another album in the morning. "}