{"label":" K","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6724/homepage_large.bdc06117.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Dark","artist":"Rondelles","title":"Shined Nickels and Loose Change","text":" Listening to Shined Nickels and Loose Change, the collection of scattered songs by D.C. retrofashion punks the Rondelles, had an inspirational effect on me. It made me want to invent updated 60s dances for the 21st Century. I mean, despite all its obvious merits, the Froog really hasn't stood the test of time that well. But, being the Terpsichorean genius that I am, it was with little effort that I concocted the following 14 rugcutters for immediate infiltration into the \"popular\" culture one for each track on Shined Nickels, each designed to reflect the character and quality of the song that inspired it. Make sure you practice in front of a mirror, kids! 1) \"Six O'Clock\"  The 'Cardiac' On this track culled from the Rondelles' first seveninch, frontwoman Juliet Swango gives us her worst Justine Frischmann. Grab your chest in mock pain at the nonmelody; let your left arm dangle numbly at your side; froth at the mouth if you can do that at will. Sway and teeter to the incompetent beatkeeping. It's all over in just a couple minutes. Just like a real heart attack! 2) \"Safety in Numbers\"  The 'Dong (Fully Clothed Version)' This one involves a little imagination. Pretend you're painting a canvas or a house, it doesn't really matter using only your penis (girls, a strapon). If the time signature and tempo changes throw off your rhythm, the handclap and drum breaks provide an opportunity to get back in the swing of things. It's all about momentum, and this song has it in spades. 3) \"Strike Out\"  The 'Shrug' Another early vinylonly number. Motivation for doing the 'Shrug' properly: you're trying to remove something off your back without the use of your hands. It's annoying. You try moving fast, you try moving slow. It still doesn't come off. 4) \"Shimmybecker\"  The 'Harpy' The monstrous motions of a chickenhag are perfectly suited to the jerky, accelerated \"I Will Follow Him\" verse. Flap your elbows, move your neck in goofy turkeyfowl thrusts. Tear into your prey in the aggressive, carnivorous chorus. 5) \"The Fox\"  The 'Vespa' The title track from the Rondelles' last fulllength release, the song has a catchy drive that propels it through Iggy Pop Land. Straddle your imaginary scooter and rev periodically with your hands. Singalong to the grinding guitar hook with some \"vroom\" noises of your own. 6) \"Revenge\"  The 'Spar' Follow the advice of the title and box out your frustrations with lovers that have spurned you. Thuddy bass and drums are your cues for the body blows. Remember to bob and weave on the halftempo chorus: \"I gave you my heart now/ I'm falling apart now/ ...Girls like me don't know when to quit/ You get revenge now.\" 7) \"Backstabber\"  The 'Dong (SemiNude Version)' Outstanding lyrics, the most apparent 60s girl group influences, and the Church Lady's miniorgan result in a song that is complete beachparty bonfire fun. This absolutely calls for the removal of at least some clothing. See clothed version above (#2) for dance instructions. 8) \"Kersmash, Eye My\"  The 'Living Dead' Atrocious. A song without a brain and with a lumbering, undead quality. Like in Michael Jackson's \"Thriller\" video, reach into the air with both hands first to the left, then to the right. Then break into spastic body jerks periodically like you're being riddled with shotgun blasts from a terrified human. 9) \"Like a Prayer\"  The 'Whore' Once the slow, organic miniintro concludes and the song kicks in, gyrate you hips to keep time to the sluttedup beat. Grab your breasts often. Spread and close your knees in time to the classic punk version of one of Madonna's better singles. Close your eyes often if you feel like being overly emotive. 10) \"T.V. Zombie\"  The 'Sally' Newwave sweetness and a bass 'n' organdriven melody set the stage for the story of losing your unrequited love to television set. The punkier chorus reminded me of Black Flag's similarly titled \"T.V. Party.\" For the dance, just do your best Peanuts gogo dancer impersonation. 11) \"He's Got Heart\"  The 'March' A swingy intro and verse alternates with a Bratmobilelike shoutchorus. The March is a simple enough dance: march in place with exaggerated arm swings. Keep it up at an aerobic \"intervals\" level. You'll burn calories, too, if you put the song on repeat. 12) \"Cafeteria Rock\"  The 'Shimmybecker' Okay, so that's the name of the band that gets covered here (as well as acknowledged in the earlier track named after the band). But it's such an onomatopoeic word in this case, perfectly suited to the way your body will start involuntarily moving to the most garage rock song on the album. So how exactly do you 'Shimmybecker?' Just like it sounds, man! 13) \"Angels We Have Heard on High\"  The 'Twirl' This one is easy. Despite the tempo and guitar crunch, the Rondelles haven't really altered this underrated traditional holiday carol. All you do is outstretch your arms and begin spinning slowly at first and then faster and faster. When the song ends, fall down. You can sing along with Swango's \"Glooooooooooria's\" if you want to for extra credit. 14) \"Fort Surrounded (Turbo Mix)\"  The 'Mush' A bad experimental noisecollage calls for bad interpretive dance. So use a lot of the pseudogoth, smokelike hand manipulations. Also, sort of halflift your feet off the ground, as if wearing Mafiafitted concrete shoes. You have to keep it up for 4\\xBD long minutes. And there you have it. As soon as you've mastered these, head straight to your favorite clubs and indie dive bars to give them a test drive. Make sure you tell your friends where you learned them, because I guarantee they will ask. "}