{"label":" Erstwhile","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6742/homepage_large.13760a53.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Keith Rowe","title":"Duos for Doris","text":" For years, it was impossible for me to enjoy much of the Erstwhile catalog. Not for lack of trying, I just couldn't physically hear the subtleties within the collaborative work of the world's foremost \"sound\" for lack of a more concrete descriptor improvisers the label thrives on, due to cacophonic street noise right outside my window (it drowned out all but the most strident noises). The digitized percussion duo of L\\xEA Quan Ninh and Günter Müller dissolved in the Brooklyn street din while the dog whistle sinewaves and razors of Toshimaru Nakamura and Sachiko M's do were unrecoverable underneath the truck brakes, street chatter, and \"dinkdinkdink\" music blasting past the window at all hours. Now that I'm in the back room, away from the street, I can discern more of what's happening between one of Erstwhile's most stalwart artists, English tabletop guitarist Keith Rowe and an AMM bandmate of his going back to the start of the eighties, pianist John Tilbury. It's funny that, while Rowe's duo work has come into prominence over the past few years performing and recording prolifically with Nakamura, Müller, Australian guitarist Oren Ambarchi, and others this double CD marks the first occasion he has ever performed with Tilbury exclusively. Those familiar with the instant sound universes created by hardy perennials AMM will not detect any straying from that singular and difficult path. Instead, their sounds are distilled further and reconsidered yet again, the two gents disappearing into the spaces of the recording room, reticent to disrupt the silences that abound about them. Rowe rustles at a low volume, the guitar pickups and shortwave radio picking up what sounds to be the very air itself, charged with a constant crackle. Tilbury remains resolute until he hears what needs to be released. Thirty minutes into the seventyminute first disc, \"Cathnor\", he carefully extracts the tiny percussive sounds of John Cage's prepared piano (something Tilbury has interpreted before). Faint and melodic, his lines evoke distant buoys in the bay, swaying with the unseen ocean that Rowe provides. At forty minutes, Tilbury further gleans the melody, carving out sustained chords in an elongated ascension that draws more on his exquisite interpretations of New York composer Morton Feldman. These chords soon gain gravity, clanging with a pained almost brittle sound commingled with thunderous low stabs on the piano, as Keith Rowe gathers metallic storm clouds in louder scrapes, reaching a catharsis that is the exact opposite to the eye of this hurricane, the center being the densest point in the music. Given the recording note that Tilbury's mother passed away two days before the session, it's not surprising to feel that emotional release with him here. \"Olaf\" is another long exploration, this time at fortyfive minutes, featuring Tilbury's percussive taps on the piano wood and Rowe's rather peculiar version of the ether, with a bit more radio captured. I wonder what a car trip with Keith would be like, as he modulates the knobs and ratio between reception/static constantly, coming in and out of perception. The piano recalls its previous prepared sounds, achieving music box tones as Rowe blows about like wind into a fieldrecording mic. The final piece, \"Oxleay\", has Tilbury exacting ineffable filaments from the space, sometimes just the clack of a high key against the wire, while Rowe respires and hums at nearindiscernible volumes, often drowning in the outside sounds of ceiling fan hum and air conditioning, occasionally reminding you of his gentle presence. It's as there or not there as you want it to be, which is something to think about when people are physically, at least no longer with you. "}