{"label":" Erstwhile","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6743/homepage_large.b7b6dc42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Fennesz / Keith Rowe","title":"Live at the LU","text":" Ever since he laid his electric guitar flat in emulation of painter Jackson Pollack in the 60s, English artist Keith Rowe has been splattering intricately nuanced white noise. Beyond his painterly approach, he's also taken conceits from John Cage, and strains of imaginary landscapes from shortwave radio, frantic cartridge music crunch, indeterminacy, patches of 4'33\" nonsilence, and prepared guitar strings abound and commingle in his sound. It makes him a guitar hero of the queerest sort, as most of today's players still hesitate to explore such things as pickups' electromagnetic fields, or the effect that motor drones, tongue depressors, and Brillo pads have on detuned strings. Not until well into the 90s did Rowe even find a generation of sympathetic ears, or international players with which to surround himself beyond the confines of his main trio, AMM.The Erstwhile label has often documented the meeting of elder statesman with younger minds, to startling and sonicallychallenging effect. So to team him with Christian Fennesz, the gateway guitarist/Powerbook player known for straddling noise and pop, is an intriguing move, as it could well introduce Rowe to a slightly larger demographic particularly if the two were to incorporate more of Fennesz's shoegazing ambient washes. Additionally, it could offset the grumbles that Fennesz merely treaded water for his followup to Endless Summer, rather than take his explorations further out for Venice.While not their first meeting (both gents appeared alongside Pita, Pimmon, and Oren Ambarchi for 2000's Afternoon Tea), it is their first performance as a duo. Unfortunately, with the ferocious crackle and piercing frequencies that tear open this 2002 live performance in Nantes, France, it appears that they're headed for decidedly rocky and difficult terrain. Over the course of this 43minute excursion, the topography of the performance more closely resembles that of the music of Keith Rowe's other duos, as the two favor textures, rumbling drones, and physical crackles, as well as sampled bits of shortwave radio (a mainstay of most Rowe performances). Sadly, the most striking feature on display here is a curious instance of cheap drum machine patter.Fennesz subsumes himself throughout, reacting more to Rowe and manipulating that input rather than injecting his poignant melodicism and own talent for sonic landscaping. Instead of the dynamics of vistas and valleys that enrich Fennesz's solo work which could have brought a refreshing change to the world of electroacoustic improv the performance remains at a tepid, level plane, settling into a comfortable bed of indistinct noise that rarely changes, much less suggests the pedigree of the gentlemen at play, and fades away long before the disc clicks to a close. "}