{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6756/homepage_large.61dcb90b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Röyksopp","title":"What Else Is There? EP","text":" When Röyksopp announced plans to issue an EP consisting almost entirely of \"What Else Is There?\" remixes, fans couldn't have been blamed for assuming the disc would be better suited to a club enviroment than home listening. As it turns out, this ain't another Romance Bloody Romancestyle money grab, or feckless quest for some intangible fountainofyouth a la Guerolito. The disc's cadre of firsttier producers including Vitalic, Anders Trentemøller, and Jacques Lu Cont send the original track, already an album highlight, through their own signature portals, and the fun lies in each transformation's unique results. Anders Trentemøller's jagged slice of psychosis earns flagship status here. The Knife's Karin Dreijer pulls an impressive fauxBjörk on vocals, and Trentemøller's mercilessly mechanical rhythm section leaves her forsaken in a dehumanized world. Even during the bridge, during which all accompaniment drops out save a viscous, meaty bassline Dreijer's voice rings metallic, eventually scraping up against a gnashing string section. Psychologically, the song rings true to Röyksopp's more organic, softedged original, greatly contrasting more bubblegum renderings by Jacques Lu Cont and the Emperor Machine. Lu Cont basically foists a disco edit on us, with the nerve to toss in a \"Waiting for Tonight\" bassline and JLo ohoh's. Karin's \"flashlights and explosions\" line works surprisingly well as a bubbly, lithiuminduced club credo, though an overall weak beat and disappointing build prematurely pull the plug on the party. The Emperor Machine packs more goodies in his bag, burying Karin's wrenching lyrics under photon zaps and floating space disco debris. A bit insensitive, perhaps, but she sounds cool with it, cooing over the song's swanky, palmmuted cooldown. Vitalic rounds out the mix nicely, countering Lu Cont's fluffy pillowtalk gem with a bilious highregister drone. While the track finds him flexing a little too muscle in wake of his own incredible debut album, it gives the EP a cokedup freakout edge and a rigid framework trapping Karin with the repeated phrase, \"I don't know what more to ask for/ I was given just one wish.\" Together, the remixes make for one exciting version of the dating game, each hotshot DJ making their efforts to win Karin for themselves. Final count: one stud, one cocksure dude, and three pretty boys. Not too shabby, especially considering it's all for an aboveaverage track on an average album. "}