{"label":" Alternative Tentacles","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/683/homepage_large.97fcfec7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Jello Biafra","title":"The Big Ka-Boom","text":" This morning finds our erstwhile reviewer sipping the last of the coffee, periodically going to the porch to check up with her loafing roommates, investigating the dust on the baseboard. So I've got two things to do today, basically: a) find meaningful, and wellpaying employment in Chapel Hill; and b) review a Jello Biafra spoken word CD. I have successfully managed to put off writing this review for so long that my Pitchfork editors have hired surly tough guys to shadow me and threaten to feed my fingers to a vice. (It's in the contract.) The cunning student of letters and/or psychology will note I have employed an oftused rhetorical device to avoid saying anything about the record at hand. For some inexplicable reason, I'm drawing a complete blank on witty remarks and scatological epithets to hurl at the onetime San Francisco mayoral candidate, exDead Kennedy, and master of Lard, so I'll just say in my defense: 1) The Big KaBoom is a 35minute antiwar speech delivered to a riproaring crowd of enthusiastic sophomore political science majors and art students at the University of Wisconsin in November of 2001. Biafra's riffs on the 9/11 incident, the Bush Administration's mode of dealing with the 9/11 incident, the Middle East crisis, America's oil habit, the suspension of civil liberties none will be particularly revelatory to the erudite readers of this screed; 2)\tBiafra and I sit on roughly the same side of the ideological fence. Very little of what he says is objectionable in fact, he's fairly reasonable and articulate. Even his tone is friendly. Consider it Chomsky Lite, if you will. All the energy and leftwing populist appeal of the MIT linguist/political theorist without the high calorie, multisyllabic vocabulary and selfadulation; 3)\tOne could make a valid argument that Biafra resents the growing popularity of Chomsky among sub25yearold punk rockers turned radical namedroppers, and has resolved to do something about it, but that person is not going to be me. I fear the wrath of the activist, anarchist, antiglobalization, pseudointellectual horde who might convene in my front yard to demand my head on a pike, to be thrown through the window of the Starbucks on Franklin Street; 4)\tMost of you, understandably, come to Pitchfork for a welcome reprieve from political rhetoric. The people have spoken, and the people want to read about Eminem, The Strokes, underground hiphop, puzzling electronica, and Elephant 6 side projects; 5)\tHow in holy hell am I supposed to apply the existing Pitchfork rating scale to a speech given to a bunch of college students at the University of Michigan? You want to know if it's good? Well, compared to what? Radiohead? Abbie Hoffman? What constitutes a 10.0 speech, anyway? The Gettysburg Address? Strictly speaking, The Big KaBoom doesn't even conform to the conventional aesthetic excesses of spoken word. You can nod, clap politely, shake a fist every now and then, and maybe raise your voice for a good \"By God, you are right, sir!\" but dancing is patently out of the question; 6) If I tell you precisely what is said, what reason would you have to listen to the CD? I mean, I probably couldn't accurately capture the exact tone with which Biafra derisively snorts \"Don't Mess With Texas\" when speaking of Dubya, but really, it's a speech, people. While I'm in general agreement with the gist of what is said, I'm not completely enamored with the sideshow histrionics of its delivery. So, if you were already planning on buying this CD, there's nothing I could possibly say to dissuade you, though I will say that none of the ideas present on this record are particularly original. Betterinformed, more articulate political analysts and theorists have dedicated pages to the same issues addressed by The Big KaBoom. By and large, they don't happen to be former punk rock figureheads which is ultimately the endallbeall of this CD, and the source of my reluctance to recommend it. "}