{"label":" Soundless","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6775/homepage_large.1058dedc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Nate Ruth","title":"Whatever It Meant","text":" I really don't want to compare Nate Ruth to My Bloody Valentine, but hey, what can you do? As obvious as the reference seems, he doesn't give me much choice. Not that Ruth's music really sounds like the work of Kev Shields, but the aesthetic used to construct the songs is remarkably close to the one that created Loveless. See, Ruth's basic approach on Whatever It Means seems to be to start with a simple vocal melody, and then layer sheets of controlled guitar noise on top, creating an intensely dense yet penetrable texture. This concentrated squall is propelled by programmed beats that just might be somewhat danceable if they weren't carrying the weight of such a deep roar. Ruth deviates from this formula as the album reaches its midpoint, lifting the fog for some more directly accessible numbers, but for the first few tracks, this is what we get. And it's a wonderful thing. The third time I listened to Whatever It Meant, I remember distinctly saying out loud, to an empty room, \"Man, this album is fucking weird.\" What I hadn't yet realized was how insidiously memorable it is. The more I listen to it, the deeper it buries itself in my mind, taking hold of a different cerebral region with each spin. The first four songs pour from the speakers like digital molasses. \"End Up,\" for example, sounds like it wanted to be a normal song at one point, but the vocals and trotting percussion wind up trees in a forest of sound. \"How Truly Great You Are\" is a drumless, eerie thicket of guitar and quietly soulful singing. Lyrically, it's an excellent, sarcastic devotional to a gigantic ego and all the people that bow to it; musically, it's a subtle and imaginative offering that neatly toes the line between ambient comfort and pop accessibility.Whatever It Meant reaches a sort of turning point after that song, moving several lateral steps into some sort of cabaret for the clinically depressed with \"Oversimplifying.\" \"Lots of newfound free time I have/ Oughta teach a course in being sad/ And the clouds that hover overhead get taken for granted,\" sings Ruth over not much more than a bass and some strategically placed effects. \"To Forget\" and \"Kindly\" reverse the mixing principles of the first four songs, sweeping the noiseaddled guitar parts behind the vocals and allowing the mixture of drum machine grooves and live percussion to flow more freely. \"Kindly\" almost reminds me of some of Porcupine Tree's best material, with its understated vocals and creeping arrangement. Ruth sits down at the piano for \"Every Summer,\" which is about as straightforward as pop music gets: singer and accompaniment, with some softtoned synth countermelodies and xylophone to spruce up the edges. The album's final third dives back into noisy territory, though it feels somewhat removed from the first four tracks during which the guitars are frequently so overdriven that the strumming and harmony becomes somewhat ambiguous. \"Code Words\" is almost reminiscent of the shoegazer punk of Italian Flagera Prolapse, minus the male/female vocal attack of that band. The transition is smooth, though, as Ruth seems to have had sequencing in mind when making the album. The song opens with a very odd repeated piano phrase that immediately throws you off the trail of whatever key the song might be in, something that's not aided by the distorted everything that comes in shortly afterward. \"Thanks Just the Same\" is a gorgeous ballad filled with floating piano figures, dejected vocals, and yep, tons more distortion. The guitar loses prominence as the song progresses, setting up the offkilter \"Nothing Can Make Me Feel Better,\" which opens relatively clean over some drunken piano before the static undertow and frantically busy drum program cut in. The album closes with \"It's Been Worth the Wait,\" and you're likely to agree, because it's the most majestic track on the album, weaving synth and distorted guitar (of course) into a quilt of pure sound and bringing the album full circle to the sound that opens it. One thing I love to do with records that feel this complete is try to divide them into logical, equal sections, and I find that it's usually possible on some level. Whatever It Meant follows what I've found to be a broad trend of breaking works into thirds to make them more digestible. You've got the noisy/melodic firstthird, the relatively clean, more sonically varied secondthird, and the noisy/melodic/thistimewithpiano final third, complete with a nod back to the beginning at the end. It sounds simple, but it's this kind of logical flow that makes this album a breeze to listen to, despite its often challenging mix.Whatever It Meant is an intriguing solo debut for an artist who's obviously not afraid to try something different. Aside from his sonic adventurousness, though, he's also got an innate pop sense to balance it with, and that's what really makes it work. This album is a world of sound, and it's got the hooks to drag you right into it. Give it a try. "}