{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6783/homepage_large.5a55dbfb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Rosebuds","title":"Make Out","text":" Following in the bold footsteps of Merge Records pioneer Mac McCaughan, The Rosebuds, Merge's latest riledup, powerpop endeavor, are pounding out the same sort of elastic, hooky guitar rock that McCaughan himself once used to kick out with Superchunk. Culled directly from the Merge backyard (Raleigh, NC), The Rosebuds are an energetic threepiece (guitar, keyboards, drums) harboring a bold, armflailing rhythmic tendency that should earn them piles of favorable comparisons to contemporary dancepunks Hot Hot Heat and Radio 4. But it's The Rosebuds' fullon embrace of pop formula big, rousing choruses, twitchy keyboard bits, insistently bouncing drums that ultimately makes them such an addictive outfit. The Rosebuds' unquestioning approval of all things sweet and melodic is also what makes them bend, occasionally, a little bit twee: you won't find the slightest indication of a disdainsoaked smirk lurking beneath their canny synths and grinning vocals, and while that earnestness might seem unbearable on paper, it can be enormously engaging in action. Their debut, Make Out, incites the same kind of giggly, brainless exhilaration that goes along with actually making out and appropriately, it's only thirtyfive minutes long. \"Kicks in the Schoolyard\" is an exuberant, Kinksish bash (at barely 2\\xBD minutes, it also cuts out before anyone can ask too many questions) that sees Kelly Crisp's keyboards and Ivan Howard's guitar taking equal swipes at the melody, ably backing up Howard's full, sloping vocals. \"My Downtown Friends\" (aside from hosting the inarguable citykid mantra \"we're going downtown/ Trying to get in for free\") offers more of the same feelgood, 50sinspired pop, complete with a wailed \"yeah, yeah, yeah\" refrain. \"Drunkard's Worst Nightmare\" is a bit darker (although still far from nightmarish), with some distorted guitar soloing slipping in and out of a high, howled chorus. Overall, Make Out tends to skew slightly retro, but lovingly so the record's clean, straightforward keyboards and vigorous beats invoke the late 80s without making any grand, iconoclastic statements about what that nod might or might not mean. The band's at their best when they stick to glowing, enthusiastically uptempo, guitarled tracks. Some of the ballads here can seem unnecessarily gooey or unbearably repetitive (see \"Big Heartbreak\", \"The Make Out Song\") enough so that they may test the tolerance of even the most patient powerpoppers. Mostly, though, Make Out is a quick, breathless somersault, all kicking feet and nodding heads, mouths wide open in dumb, singalong bliss. "}