{"label":" Mixx Tape","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6786/homepage_large.877edded.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Resplendent","title":"In a Wilderness","text":" Buried in liner notes enclosed in the tin container housing In a Wilderness is a brief exhortation, Princely in its syntax: \"Cling 2 change!\" Right there, you have a summation of the career of Michael Lenzi, the Chicago auteur behind Resplendent, late of the Fire Show and (in the more distant past) Number One Cup. Lenzi adopted the pseudonym M. Resplendent for his time in the Fire Show, a band whose output was limited, but whose creativity seemed boundless. In fact, it seems obvious now that they pushed their music too far too fast last year's Saint the Fire Show was a formidable, almost impenetrable sprawl of icy experimentalism and collapsing structure, but it was hard to imagine where they could go afterward, and they splintered rather than enter a cul de sac. Now out on his own, Lenzi continues to change his music, aggressively, and this time pulls back from the brink of total abstraction, dropping a disc of...trip hop? Well, it's not actually trip hop, but it operates on a similar principle, using beats and effects as a launchpad for unorthodox, but fundamentally melodic songs. Several of the tracks he comes up with are really just oddball interludes, like the voices calling through a foggy electronic briar patch in the title track or the just plain jarring juxtaposition of a softly whispering voice and out of synch singing and piano in opener \"Wolf Chorus\". \"Semi Hellbent Tip\" comes on like an evil Beck, with a hip hop chassis and sloppy rhyming that comes in backward and quickly reverses itself to reveal Lenzi quasirapping, inexplicably slipping into an almost British accent at times. There's some room for debate as to whether lines like \"Mister mister/ Sister sister/ Cerebral friction givin' be a blister\" and \"who's to say I'm right, honky?\" are supposed to be ironic or not, but at any rate it's a truly unexpected song. It benefits immensely from the screwy horn parts arranged by former Fire Show cohort ES Roth, who also scores a small coup with his trombone chart for \"Lone Vox\", a slow crawl that rumbles along on a deep, fuzzy bass part and some clockwork drumming. There's a George Martin quality to the trombone bit, and it's surprising how well it fits in with the bass and cymbal sludge it's floating in. Lenzi's vocals run quite the gamut, from the freaked out harmonies on \"Pitch & Yaw\" which closely resemble his histrionic spasms with the Fire Show to his lowkey, gentle singing on \"Out on the Slicks,\" the aforementioned noflow rapping, and the singspeak he adopts for \"Lone Vox\", which true to its title, is the only track where he doesn't double himself. \"Pitch & Yaw\" feels the most like a logical extension of the Fire Show, swinging between a saturated drum and sax duel, a haunting a capella passage and some chimelike electronics imported from \"Kid A\". I said it when I reviewed the Fire Show's last album, and I'll mention it again here: one of the most remarkable things about this music is how dense it feels while employing only a few instruments at a time \"Pitch & Yaw\" feels like it's constantly bearing down on you, even when it's just drums and vocals or vocals alone, calling out from inky black silence.  Resplendent ultimately can't help being less satisfying than the Fire Show there's less tension and a less palpable urgency to the material but it's also more approachable, a relatively accessible introduction to the aesthetic that made the Fire Show so fascinating. In a Wilderness covers an astounding array of ground in its halfhour running time, yet still holds together as a piece of work that once again moves Lenzi's creative boundaries in new directions. You have to wonder what he's got in store next. "}