{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6791/homepage_large.5c650cf7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Richard X","title":"X-Factor, Vol. 1","text":" \"We're the Human League and we're pleased to be playing in the carpark of a 711.\" And I thought Philip Oakey was dry and droll on record. It seemed a bit pathetic when he said it this summer at a Chicago street fair. At the end of the night, when people were literally dancing in the streets, it made sense. Oakey, his bandmates, and the communal spirit of communicative music were giving the people what they want: an irresistible, good time. The sound of the crowd singing along to \"Love Action\" and \"Don't You Want Me\" is the sort of party that mashup producer Richard X might have enjoyed and not just because the Human League are a well from which he frequently draws. The producer, who came to prominence as Girls on Top with a trio of electro/femalevocalized mashups (including \"I Wanna Dance with Numbers\", which transformed Whitney Houston from Dionne Warwick to Grace Jones), is obviously a child of the 1980s and a believer in the power of pop. \"Let's take it back to the 1980s,\" exclaims a sample on \"Rock Jacket\", from Richard X's debut album, Presents His XFactor Volume One. \"Eighties music/ Rock it/ Lose it,\" it chimes often in almost indecipherable vocoder over a sea of synths (some Heaven 17, some Jan Hammer), the whitefunk bass from Spandau Ballet's \"Chant No. 1\", and a schizophrenic drum machine. It's like taking a wondrous spin through the Vice City radio dial. Except neither it, nor the rest of the album, is really nostalgia per se. Unlike much of the regressive rock it's not reclamation, a reach back into the past to reject the present. Unlike most of kitschrock, it's not even postmodernist, because the appropriation and combination of eras isn't done with a wink. Richard X is more lamenting the loss of some ideas from the 80s most obviously the lack of New Pop sensibilities in the charts. But he's breaking boundaries instead of turning back the clock, celebrating a life loving music and making it the only untraditional way he knows how or is able to. Richard X's outsider approach is almost reminiscent of The Shaggs' heartbreaking cover of \"Yesterday Once More\", on which you can almost hear them huddled under the covers with their transistor, desperate to make music. Fortunately for Richard, technology has bridged the gulf between will/ideas and traditional compositional skill. Like 2 Many DJs, Richard is using his cunning, ear, and a lifetime of fandom to celebrate music's elasticity, and he's using the relative ease and speed of digital production to lay waste to eras: past, present, future.XFactor features the first official U.S. release of the Sugababes' cover of a Girls on Top single: The Tubeway Army/Adina Howard bootleg, \"Freak Like Me\", which shot to No. 1 in the UK. Also included is another of his official releases, Liberty X's \"Being Nobody\" (Human League vs. Rufus and Chaka Khan). The Sugababes track still sounds as fresh and unstoppable as ever; the Liberty X is more of a grower, at best. Among XFactor's other guests is Kelis, whose low profile in the U.S. needed to be rectified about four years ago. (If her new record, now delayed until 2004, ends up the victim of longpredicted Neptunes sharkjumping, she'll be the unluckiest woman in pop.) The electrosoul of Kelis' solo records is a template also followed by Richard X on collaborations with former Soul II Soul vocalist Caron Wheeler (reconstructing Lil' Louis' early house track, \"Club Lonely\") and Javine. ExFlying Lizards singer Deborah EvansStrickland sounding like a Miss Kittin prototype appears on a pair of tracks, including an almost shuffletech version of Burt Bacharach and Hal David's \"Walk on By.\" Tiga's \"You (Better Let Me Love You x4) Tonight\" proves he's best at straightahead electropop than comedy covers. But the most interesting collaborator is Pulp vocalist Jarvis Cocker (wow, are those ever painful words to type), who closes the proceedings with an electronic cheektocheek with Hope Sandoval, mixing his own professions of love and lust with Mazzy Star's \"Fade Into You.\" So how is this not all nostalgia again? Because Richard X is the perfect contemporary artist, a deconstructionist who reaches through the past and celebrates both the nearelimination of the Then and Now in our filesharing/reissue era and the democratization of music making of this new digital era. That you can purchase this in a shop instead of gawk at it on Artofthemix.com is a testimony to Richard X's PDA Rolodex, innovation, and intuition. That you'll want to buy it that it sounds so fresh and joyous is a testimony to not only Richard X, but also Paul Morley and New Pop, electro and club culture, U.S. R&B; producers such as Rodney Jerkins or The Neptunes, and anyone else over the past 20 years who argued for the timelessness of sounds that too many people claim are mere ephemera. "}