{"label":" Rapster","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6795/homepage_large.0a4309cd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Hartley Goldstein","artist":"Pete Rock","title":"Lost and Found: Hip-Hop Underground Soul Classics","text":" The year was 1992. It was a time when Yo! MTV Raps would broadcast its irreverent brand of an early hiphop DIY aesthetic into millions of bedrooms across the globe. It was a time when a fivemic review in a fledgling rap journal called The Source meant more than your record label making a check out to Benzino. It was a time when up and coming legends like Gang Starr would release career defining albums (Daily Operation) and a slew of fresh faces would soon after drop incendiary landmark debuts (In '93: WuTang, Black Moon; In '94: Biggie, Nas). Most importantly though, 1992 was the year when a young duo named Pete Rock & C.L. Smooth flooded the airwaves with their rousing jazzlaced elegy, \"They Reminisce Over You (T.R.O.Y.)\". Featuring a remarkably agile and sincere vocal delivery from C.L. Smooth, and Pete Rock dropping haunting strands of interweaving horn melodies, stabbing sax blurts and a smooth snaredriven groove, \"T.R.O.Y.\" would become one of the most stirring and beloved hiphop songs of all time. Only two years later, the duo would call it quits, and though C.L. Smooth would seldom be heard from again, Pete Rock's foggy jazzinfused production would give birth to millions of imitators (if little commercial success). Though the legendary fouryear period spanning 19921996 served as one of hiphop's most creatively inspired eras, the music business was, at the time, completely clueless as to the genre's profitability and artistic value. The industry's prevailing ignorance over hiphop (epitomized by the WuTang lyric, \"Who's your A&R;, a mountain climber who plays an electric guitar?\") meant that, along with the many landmark albums that hit record store shelves, an ungodly amount of potential rap classics never got to see the light of day: Large Professor, for example, instructed listeners to \"buy my album when I drop it,\" on A Tribe Called Quest's \"Keep It Rollin'\" and almost ten years later we're still waiting for its release. So hiphop aficionados worldwide should tip their collective throwback jerseys to the British beatcentric label BBE for rescuing some of Pete Rock's finest mid90s production moments from a death in obscurity. Collected here, in their entirety are two forgotten Pete Rockproduced gems: InI's Center of Attention and Deda's The Original Baby Pa. The infamously bootlegged Center of Attention, with its relentless, jawdropping sequence of solid instrumentals, is the real showstopper. \"Think Twice\" bounces by on a choppy bed of sublimely looped piano chords, guitar stabs, and a hazy, meditative Black Mooninfluenced drum break. Tracks like \"Step Up\" and \"Fakin' Jax\" fare even better, all piano melodies submerged in a thick fog of subaquatic vapor, while armies of shimmering horns slice through the substantial haze in intoxicating loops. Additionally, a track like \"To Each His Own\" (which features guest spots from QTip and Large Professor), with its drizzling vibe notes and flurrying horns seems to sonically billow open from out of the speaker fabric, like a dense trail of weed smoke swelling from out of the tip of a blunt only to be diffused in the surrounding air. But while the instrumentals on Deda's The Original Baby Pa are similarly inspired to the ones found on Center of Attention, both albums showcase a problem that's plagued Pete Rock's career from day one: the quality of his beats consistently overshadows the quality of his emcees' rhymes. It's no coincidence that 2001's instrumental affair, Petestrumentals, was one of Rock's greatest moments. On the Deda track \"Blah Uno\", Pete cooks up a dizzying brew of swirling horns, radiating, wooferfriendly bass notes, and the irresistible boombap of snare cracks and galloping ride cymbals only for Deda to inanely spit, \"Blah Uno here to put suckers in the mix/ The music was fixed for me to bust wild dicks.\" While on \"No More Words\", InI's three members (RobO, Grap Luva, and Pete Rock himself) kick undeniably smooth verses with easygoing group chemistry bereft of any lasting inspired insight. Furthermore, a track like \"Markd4Death\" may showcase a debonair instrumental of pensively unraveling Rhodes notes, but Deda's predictable gangsterisms and humdrum threats sound about as moving as the drone of a computer fan. The glory of the early 90s will always hold a special place in the hearts of hiphop listeners far and wide; they were the adolescent years before bling killed the urban antistar. Of course, even while hiphop fans are proverbially salivating like Pavlov's dogs for a planned Rock reunion with original partnerincrime C.L. Smooth (and a possible sequel to 1998's Soul Survivor), Lost & Found's unearthed treasures provide an ideal soundtrack for nostalgia while successfully building anticipation for future material. "}