{"label":" BBE","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6796/homepage_large.3e7ed2ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Pete Rock","title":"The Surviving Elements: From the Soul Survivor II Sessions","text":" Pete Rock bothers me. The hiphop producer's latest joint of 3 a.m. guttersteamed grooves simultaneously hypnotizes me into a trance and makes me fidget and cringe out of restlessness. Consider it a hiphop equivalent of sexually frustrated, adolescent foreplay. Take \"Glowing\", a reason for living, number 210. A swaying, milesdeep bassline that demands callin radio shoutouts to people who never met and neighborhoods that want you to stay out, opens the track, while a timeless soul piano melody softens a beat so crisp that it can break in half. These three elements are noble qualities but when the same six bars are repeated for more than five minutes, it is a chore. It can also leave a listener anticipating events that will never happen. The best minimalism always draws out the most from the slightest gestures; in hiphop, such instrumentation demands an MC to fill in the gaps. The Surviving Elements is a halffull glass, but there are still some prime breaks for DJs, as well as soundtracks for mating rituals that involve free booze, secondhand smoke, and a libraryfull of humanity's timeless clichés. Pete Rock is best known for progressing hiphop's love affair with jazz in his 1992 hit with C.L. Smooth, \"They Reminisce Over You (T.R.O.Y.)\". Since then, our man has been an underground icon, delivering topnotch productions for egocentric MCs. His ear catches the latent hypnosis found in funk at its best as his picks of rare basement 45s attests in BBE's Funk Spectrum Vol.3 comp. The Surviving Elements is a collection of Bside instrumentals from last year's album of hiphop grown from Brooklyn's weed patches, The Soul Survivor II. Opener \"You Remind Me\" is a remix of Al Green's hypnotic classic, \"Let's Stay Together\", where Rock strips everything down to the mama's heartbeat, traces of an orchestra, and the Reverend's choked sighs. It's a nearperfect DJ break to be remixed, beatjuggled and crabscratched. \"U Are What U Are\" is another Motown number chopped to the knees, where a diva belts out the track's from a Chitlin Circuit soul45 and is repeated like a stringpulled toy. \"Hop, Skip & Jump\" and \"(Pimp) Strut\" are decent meatmarket fodder with a karatechopped, electricguitar tone and piecemeal electrofunk synths. Less successful minimalism is the tepid, baby oilstained, softporn R&B; of \"Midnight and You\" and the shopping mall Muzakbox that duels with a ringadingding cosmiczap in \"Fairground\".Surviving's best moment is \"Hip 2 Hip\", a 22nd century spacefunk tune that causes glassdomed cities to arise from those Brooklyn weedpatches. There is bliss for the first two minutes, and then comes the nagging feeling that something should happen. Futurism indeed. "}