{"label":" Planet µ","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6798/homepage_large.b7c612bf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Remarc","title":"Sound Murderer","text":" Looking back on 2003, among the sounds that Pitchfork may have undervalued are crunk and the raggajungle revival. Granted, they weren't ignored each of them scored a few reviews and a handful of welldeserved praise. But by the time David Banner got screwed and chopped, the \"Meringue Remix\" of \"Get Low\" slipped onto the radio, the Soundmurderer + SK1 12inches received proper release, and Tigerbeat6 released a handful of records that didn't treat jungle and drill sounds like aural raspberries, it became more clear that these were a couple of the most undertold stories of 2K3. When it comes to the raggajungle revival, the place to start is still where the present meets the past: Soundmurderer's Wired for Sound features a trio of breakneck mixes of some of most ruff, masculine and steelyeyed moments in firstwave raggajungle. A tall tale of raggajungle's history, Wired for Sound recast its rhythmic innovation as all peaks and no valleys, a frenetic series of whipsmart necksnapping drumbeats which, in the right hands, isn't actually that much of a fib. Fittingly, one of the producers who most heavily features on Wired for Sound is Remarc, who in 199597 released ten singles of uncanny power and elasticity on labels such as the legendary Suburban Base, Dollar, Kemet, Labello, and White House. Sound Murderer collects most of those tracks many of them on CD for the first time on a welldeserved Remarc fulllength. (A second compilation of Remarc's work, Unreleased Dubs 9496, will be released on Planet Mu on CD and 4xLP in late spring.) Despite the variety and a nearchaotic intensity of Remarc's rewiring of the empty promise of rave to the sinisterism and dread of darkcore, the origin of each of these tracks lies on the flipside to the Winstons' 1969 top 10 soul hit \"Color Him Father\". Like many junglists, Remarc built his tracks over the \"Amen\" break, which is derived from \"Amen Brother\", a break that is sort of to jungle what \"Apache\" is to hiphop: perhaps the integral strand in each sound's genetic code. Far from the IDMleaning of jungle's overground, more whitewashed head music, these are tracks of urgency and dread that appealed to/soothed the paranoia of too many years of drug use as much as it did to embody the thrill of communicative dance music. And yet, it's more sonically stuffed and sophisticated than both its spliffcloud brethren and the drillnbass snobs who later delighted in rubbing sludge over melody rather than marrying them to any great effect. Among the few Remarc classics missing from this comp is perhaps the most extreme, the cold sweat of \"Ricky\", a track so overcome by druginduced paranoia that it sounds like an anxiety attack on acetate. What is here includes some of the most deft manipulations of rhythm of the jungle era, from the drums, subbass and congas in your face of \"Unity\" to the selfexplanatory yet still funky title track to already exalted classics such as \"R.I.P.\" and \"Thunderclap\". The snaps and skitters of Remarc's robust breaks color his tracks without pulverizing them, whether laid alongside the bravado of Jamaican patois or gunshots or more unexpected and docile treats such as or Spaghetti Western whistling or delicate string lines. After years of jungle being associated with too much of the latter and not enough of the former, this is a welcome resurrection. "}