{"label":" CDR","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13322/homepage_large.e271ec67.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"Ratatat","title":"Remixes","text":" Having established a precedent with their classically informed fusion of lofi hiphop beats and braided analog melodies, Brooklyn duo Ratatat decided to do something practical with it. Their eponymous debut retained an epic minimalism, a microrock melancholy that even in its stainless steel production radiated a fleshy, cleareyed warmth. Voiceovers from local MC Young Churf lightened the tone and hinted at the group's guarded Bboy predilections, but were so incongruous they could've been smarmy indieisms. So to snuff any doubters, Ratatat's two lone gunmen, guitarist Mike Stroud and beatsmith/producer Evan Mast, essentially plundered the HOT 97 playlist and laid down fresh instrumentals to back a grip of vocal tracks from some of rap's biggest hitmakers on this new tourexclusive release. The band's source material sends an instant message: They proudly indulge in the mainstream, and for the most part, spurn any artists who might cast a shadow of underground elitism. (Even Dizzee Rascal, a somewhat exotic phenom in the States, gets radio play in the UK.) Along with crossover heroes like Kanye West, JayZ, and Missy Elliott, 50 Cent's G Unit and a host of Wu alumni appear. The ominous thug melodrama is curious I have a hard time envisioning two skinny white kids personally relating to the desperate urgency of \"Run\", Ghostface Killah's panicked rant with Jadakiss. But such is the voyeuristic, classspanning pleasure of modern hiphop, and the gospel organ grind that haunts the track, or the gothic piano tiptoe on G Unit's \"Stunt 101\", keep them dark and deep. More than the rappers themselves, the production of the original tracks must've appealed most to Mast's hiphop sensibility. Ratatat's glitchy metallic rhythms lean heavily toward the syncopated scifi bounce of platinum rap architects, and for that reason the remix's potentially risky stylistic collision actually works. Mast's sparse, intuitive production and Stroud's teetering guitars slide in beneath the vocals, slyly replacing the original bigballed crunk with lustrous geek funk. Coming early in the mix, Missy and Timbaland's \"I'm Really Hot\" blazes with staccato bass and murmuring synths, proving the power of this album's worth of dedicated tinkering. Later, Elliott's \"Wake Up\" falsestarts with a similar onecount beat before heading into glazed emohop territory. JayZ's booty serenade \"Sunshine\" receives similar understated treatment, led by a progrock bassline, handclaps, and folded layers of guitar. Somewhat surprisingly, the more aggressive, lyrically heavy tracks fare just as well as the floorfillers though it must be said that extreme volume will be required to rock the party with these mixes. Raekwon's \"Smith Bros\" surfs an ominous broken beat rumble, while \"Cutting It Up\", his pairing with Ghostface, gets razor guitar licks and creepy keys. Like Ratatat's debut, these tracks are unified by a common instrumental format that mediates their mood and somewhat limits their sound. It seems Mast and Stroud have honed in on their grand vision and are meticulously refining it on tape. But if it's a work in progress, it's still entertaining there's only a couple missteps along the way. A disappointing amputation of Dizzee Rascal's \"Fix Up, Look Sharp\" suffers from a trembling bassline where a seismic blast used to be, and a throwaway freestyle from Lazer Life of obscure aroundtheway crew/ODB homies Brooklyn Zoo quickly goes nowhere. Even as the band comes remarkably close to distilling the musical essence of hiphop, their crossover appeal is a oneway street. Fans of Ratatat's original material will naturally flock, but only a handful of Wu acolytes and radiorap lemmings will catch whiff of the project, and of those that do, even fewer will find their way past the lack of trunkbumping bombast to pick up the subtle gravity of Ratatat's inspired revisions. "}