{"label":" Birdman","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6808/homepage_large.c9d52449.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Tom Recchion","title":"I Love My Organ","text":" Having lived under the same Californian sun as fellow Left Coast weirdos Frank Zappa and Captain Beefheart, it's no surprise that Tom Recchion, in homage to titles like Lumpy Gravy and \"White Jam\", has called this record I Love My Organ. The Wire suspected that the quote could be onanistic, but in the tradition of another offhisaxis ambient master, Erik Satie, it could as easily be in the tradition of that lost art of omphalism, meditating on one's own bellybutton. Selfabsorbed, unaware of trends and times, and generally out of the loop, tapesplicer Recchion has existed in his own world since the mid1970s, helping to found the bizarre Los Angeles Free Music Society which had connections to everyone from The Residents to Beefheart to Keiji Haino (still decades away from recognition outside of the Japanese underground) a collective that released their own records in DIY fashion before punk even hit. Recchion even worked inside the system, designing Grammynominated album covers for R.E.M. and Prince along the way.I Love My Organ is Recchion's latest batch of kooky, newly unearthed tape improvisations to see release via Birdman Records, and judging from the material on display, its contents were created in some nondescript haze of the 80s. As composed as they may appear to be, 11 of the record's 15 tracks are realtime improvisations, with Recchion jumping between unballasted tape loops with arrays of organs, strange exotica samples and homemade instruments. The liner notes' dedications point to the middle ground it all inhabits, shouting out to hornrimmed geeks like Ferrante & Teicher and Jad Fair, as well as ambient gurus Terry Riley and Brian Eno. For those already taken with the disintegrating tape loop majesty of Brooklyn composer William Basinski, Recchion's \"Narcotic\" (which is dedicated to him), shows a striking synchronicity of melancholic sound; it's the result of two musicians operating on two different coasts during the Reagan era, utterly unaware of the others' work. Other pieces engage in exotic, obsolete rhythms from the rim of the memory hole: Imaginary Italian mod soundtracks and rhythms such as waltzes, calliopes and sambas paint each distinct meter as a woozy and wasted 3am ride on a destitute carousel. The record finishes with an eerie whispered bit by David Toop, whose Exotica book was inspired by a handful of peculiar easylistening mixtapes sent to him by Recchion. The culminating, offthecuff results are as unsettling as a Martin Denny album cover as rendered by performance artist Paul McCarthy: a grassskirted nymphet in a rubber Mister Rogers mask, blood on her feet. "}