{"label":" Flameshovel","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6810/homepage_large.dee43de1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"The Race","title":"If You Can","text":" Sisyphus, thy boulder is Radiohead. Craig Klein and Kevin Duneman have been recording as The Race for five years, and have finally hit their stride in 2004 with help from Telefon Tel Aviv, who produced and contributed to If You Can. The band's 2000 debut, Chicago Ruins Everything (where does that leave New York?), came and went without much fanfare, and the lowgrade praise paid 2002's The Perfect Gift rapidly dissipated in the fickle underground. E.g., \"Have you heard that band The Race?\" \"Yeah, they're pretty good.\" \"So what's going on tonight?\" The mope factor feeds this inevitable indifference; Klein and Duneman's music is studiously constructed to elicit Borecore catcalls from anyone who uses music as motivation. You know exactly who's listening to this record: He's a bad stereotype in black glasses, the guy in the worn plaid shortsleeve buttondown with matted hair. Most kids are trying hard not to be him, because, like preps and punks before him, he has become a bad cliché. He had his moment in the midtolate 1990s, when that scruffy Ethan Hawke backpacker thing really pulled the college chicks, but it's over. The rest of the world left him holding a cup of independently brewed coffee, surrounded by a stack of Home and Fan Modine records going, \"Oh man, listen to this part right here wait, no, right here... ahh.\" The proximity effect is becoming a big problem for \"sad bastard music,\" since most of the world even the tragically hip are petting this dodo on the head, comfortably numbed by the same Radiohead records their neighbor throws on when the kids go to sleep. But if Pinback can pitch a tent in the halftime slowcore desert, so too can The Race.If You Can is an extremely compact record at just under half an hour, but its nine downcast songs seem to last a morbid eternity. While you may bristle at the exchange rate you're getting from The Race, the short setlist is a keen decision; at these maudlin tempos, a 2\\xBDminute guitar bleat like \"Ark Again\" lends the emotional exhaustion of a 10minute coda. Though brevity serves the individual tracks well, there's a macro downside to If You Can's exceedingly compressed digital production, repetitive structures and redressed melodies: If you're not paying attention, it feels like one 30minute song. And yes, that song is by Radiohead, and it is called \"No Surprises\". Though there are plenty of more precise comparisons one could make (Pinback, Macha), the straightfaced worldweary alienation overview and Grandaddy moaning are clearly not courting the underground. If You Can is a marked improvement over The Perfect Gift, with sonorous choruses ensuring \"Rose\", \"Safe and Sound\" and the fine leadoff title track a place in pouting playlists, but most of the record is a band of serious young men stuck in the mud, shouldering the burden of a titanic predecessor. "}