{"label":" GSL","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6816/homepage_large.a93217c6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Omar Rodriguez-López","title":"A Manual Dexterity: Soundtrack, Vol. 1","text":" A Manual Dexterity  Soundtrack Volume 1 is half of a pet project that Omar RodriguezLopez (At the DriveIn, De Facto, The Mars Volta) has been recording since 2001. In its entirety, it will comprise the soundtrack for RodriguezLopez's film of the same name. That this project steps back from the structured postprog of The Mars Volta and bends more toward the esoteric experimentalism of De Facto is unsurprising it takes its title from the opening track of De Facto's 2001 LP Megaton Shotblast. What is surprising is that an undertaking of such magnitude and rich detail remains so shrouded in mystery. There have been few concrete details revealed about this project; most of the information is fragmentary at best. Cryptic message board posts, befuddling repetitions, frustrating omissions, red herrings and blind leads accrue either no one knows anything about this project, or they just aren't willing to say. When queried, GSL Records founder Sonny Kay replied: \"The film is 90 minutes long and will be out in the spring. That's all I know.\" Factual glimmers from the digital rumor mill maintain that the film is fictional and is nearing completion in Los Angeles, and that RodriguezLopez collaborated with numerous friends on the soundtrack, including John Frusciante and members of De Facto and The Mars Volta. Between these shadowy spires of dubious information, a vast lacuna remains. The word \"shambolic\" appears with startling frequency in reviews of A Manual Dexterity, Vol. 1. It's a good word, with a robust utility that belies its seldomused stature (my word processor's spellchecker is trying to convince me that it doesn't exist), but one wishes \"rambolic\" and \"fumbolic\" were words as well. The record opens with \"Around Knuckle White Tile\", the title's abstract word collage representing RodriguezLopez's lyrical tendencies, which are almost entirely absent from this mostly instrumental recording. The track's initial ambient rustles and haunted house sounds take a couple of minutes to set the scene, before morphing into a dim, loungey fugue with spinning traces of incandescent guitar. Freeform drumming enters to impose order upon the 7minute walkabout as it assembles itself with subtle shadings of tone and color. \"Dyna Sark Arches\" spends a full minute establishing an aura of receding, minimal atmosphere before collapsing into prickly, staccato funk embellished with crystalline string bends and solos that are strikingly reminiscent of preGood News Modest Mouse. \"Here the Tame Go By\" drops a sizzling cluster of progguitar into the center of an immense expanse of arid atmosphere. Fans of The Mars Volta should take note of \"The Palpitations Form a Limit\", the record's only foray into standard rock dynamics and vocals. A \"deus ex machina\" literally \"God from a machine\" is a narrative device employed to resolve an inextricably tangled plot (e.g. \"And they all died in an avalanche\"). As such, it typically arrives at the end of a work. RodriguezLopez placed his deus ex machina a standout track with that name in the center of his record. The song is a seamless fusion of foundational dub, digital glitz, and unadulterated Latin jazz, a moment of pop lucidity amid all the abstruse avantgardism. However, since the denouement of this review won't truly resolve until the film materializes, I'll close with a divine intervention of my own: \"And the Internet, crumbolic bastion of misinformation, subsided at last beneath the digital sea. The end.\" "}