{"label":" Lovitt","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6821/homepage_large.8f26461d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Rah Bras","title":"Whohm","text":" Philly, right? That was my guess, at least, on hearing these maquillaged softvowellovers. Sixth boroughites like their garments bright and their synths dug up on eBay. Or maybe it's the other way round. Either way, Rah Bras meet the criteria then wrap their wares in goth bondage. Only they rep Richmond. The canard of spazz rock is that it's rarely all that spastic. Need New Body and Polysics play it too straight rhythmically to inspire convulsive dancing at least among the nonpillpopping set. Bablicon jumble the beat like lotto balls but they're hardly paroxysmal. In Hella we find stiff angles and sufficient contortion, but how much technical proficiency makes a contradiction in terms? Sure, Rah Bras mathematize enough compound meters to keep a Modern Drummer nerd busy for a month. Their struggle, however, is in the process they can sacrifice their power. Recourses are motorik eighths and hard backbeats, like on opener \"As She Rah\", which gridlocks swirling synth gak with bouts of Queensrychestyle double kick. \"Skin = Chronized\" follows with ugly, zippering synths and burningfuselage static, but again towering drum pads do some spinal readjustment. On songs like \"Herculine Androgyn\" and \"War Ribbing Ode\" the Rahs abandon structural precepts altogether, riding stiff, blocky rhythms like a mechanical bull. The latter, which combines metal kicks and a very guitarlike synth run, hints at jammier underpinnings, and indeed, the band imagines some nottoodistant nexus of the universe where Dream Theater and Andrew WK intersect. If Whohm's rhythmic linearity doesn't exactly secure Rah Bras' spazz badge, neither does its tenderness. Two longer, groovefinding pieces exhale and machinate at easier tempi: \"Venis\", brassy with a flatulent bassline, features ethereal female vocals above the nastiness. They're complemented by a surprisingly delicate filigree of synths, airier than Air. \"Mother Put the Wheel Away I Cannot Spin Tonight\" hops on the recent trend toward sentimental tokenism specifically, it's the kind of slowedup, restrained, slightly mawkish, melodyfluent tour de force with which Maxïmo Park (\"Acrobat\") and Yeah Yeah Yeahs (\"Maps\") disrupted their albums' track orders. Call it spazz, chopped and screwed.Whohm is an itinerant half hour. Forget semantics for a sec and there's still no obvious, practical way to term it. Which is to say: Rah Bras have hit upon an attractive disjunct, but ambivalence always problematizes itself. Had they structured the album more decisively, without such incoherent chiaroscuro, and with more heartstoppers like \"Mother\" in place of the wonky padding, it would have made more sense. But then, eBay fashionistas think clash is a gas even, evidently, in Richmond. "}