{"label":" Hidden Agenda","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/689/homepage_large.435630d7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Bikeride","title":"Morning Macumba","text":" Bikeride is another entry in the growing list of Southern California bands trying to inject sorely needed joy into the indie scene, but these spirited lads more than just stand to be counted. Primary songwriter Tony Carbone takes his cues from most of the same resuscitated sources as his peers namely Brian Wilson, Arthur Lee, and The Beatles but he and his bandmates pull it off with such enthusiasm and invention, it's hard to pay any mind to critics who'll cavil endlessly about a lack of originality. Like any true powerpoppers, Bikeride wink at their source material before offering their take: Does \"Sleepyhead\" sound like \"Eleanor Rigby\" after a few Mountain Dews? Certainly, but if you like The Beatles and highcaffeine beverages, why not imbibe of both. \"Small Faces\", a nod to the mod gods, pays tribute without slavish or academic recreation. Fans of powerpop tend to accept this sort of conservatism from their favorite bands, but Bikeride should play to wider audiences, even lure away a handful of the jaded critics sneering, \"Teenage Fanclub was such a Big Star ripoff,\" and, \"Evan Dando, what a necrophiliac stoner.\" Carbone takes real risks with his writing while the band adds an unmistakable flavor of modernism without letting their ironic detachment drown out the ingenuous excitement. It's a good thing, too, because Carbone's irreverence toward standard structure could easily have led down a path that should have come to an end a few years ago, somewhere in the emotional wasteland of Beck's Midnite Vultures. As it stands, the daring \"Fakin' Amnesia\", \"Norwegia\", and several others come across as pure fun, a bravado balancing act that's all the more thrilling for how close it comes to falling apart. \"Lemonade\" and a minority of other tracks occasionally take wrong turns into booby traps like lounge jazz, but that's the price of forsaking comfort and predictability. No matter how much style and imagination Carbone & Co. exhibit, some will inevitably dismiss it from the start. Carbone sings in a voice that few others could achieve without the aid of helium or neutering, an admittedly difficult sound to absorb for long stretches of time. This is the most damning piece of evidence for the case that Bikeride is simply too cute to tolerate, but complaints will probably extend to other areas. The twists and turns featured so prominently on nearly every song will surely strike some ears as forced experimentalism, but if you're too embarrassed to buy an Electric Light Orchestra record after humming \"Mr. Blue Sky\" as it slid by in that Volkswagen commercial, you should find Morning Macumba a less humiliating alternative. "}