{"label":" V2 / Third Man","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6849/homepage_large.9e475bbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Raconteurs","title":"Broken Boy Soldiers","text":" Jack White has gotten a lot of mileage out of his limited palette. Sure, all that red and white looks striking, and the raw, coed blues setup has been fruitful enough to spawn a gaggle of imitators. But the real advantage of selfimposed limits is that the most minute change to White's formula appears gigantic consider the buzz that surrounded the introduction of black into his wardrobe circa Elephant's release. With the White Stripes seemingly on hiatus, Jack White has the time and freedom to alter more than his visual aesthetic. Just in time, too, as both Elephant and Get Behind Me Satan revealed that Jack and Meg had backed their sound up against a wall. Our first exposure to Jack White's 2006 sound was the exploration of Abbey Roadlike psychedelic orchestration in a song commissioned by CocaCola, his corporate brethren in barberpole color schemes. Now comes a Midwest supergroup that includes fellow Michigander Brendan Benson and the rhythm section from I75 commuters the Greenhornes. Injecting new blood into his vampire persona would be beneficial to White's career, as would collaborating with another songwriter in Benson, working with an honesttogod bassist and trained drummer, and generally being kept from succumbing to his own retroobsession selfindulgences. On the other hand, the Raconteur recruits aren't exactly modernminded themselves, with Benson being a devout merchant of powerpop and the Greenhornes traveling the same Nuggetsplundering path as the Stripes themselves. As a result, Broken Boy Soldiers isn't much of a departure, nudging White only a couple clicks over in his classicrock worship. Yet, as already established, forced perspective makes even these small steps appear as significant strides for Mr. White. It's there in lead single \"Steady as She Goes\", even though it's subtle; the improvements mostly come with hearing one of his compositions freed from the laboriously lowtech \"realism\" of the White Stripes' recent material. It's there even more in the album's title song, where tribal drums and an ominous bowed drone buttress White's valiant attempt at a passable Geddy Lee. Even the rote blues emulation of \"Blues Vein\" comes off more \"I Want You (She's So Heavy)\" than From the Cradle, saved from reenactment status by some backwardloop weirdness and filmnoir production. Credit White with allowing the Raconteurs to be a twoparty system; though I've spent the review focusing on the head Stripe, Benson is an equal partner in this operation, and it's his powerpop rubric that largely dictates the sound of the album. Bensonsung songs like \"Hands\" and \"Intimate Secretary\" crackle with a Cheap Trick kind of charm, given extra heft by White's predilection for harder guitar sounds. \"Store Bought Bones\" might be the best merger of the assembled talents, featuring a distorted organ and manic slideguitar that would be tired amidst a White Stripes record, but retains its zang here alongside a nimble rhythm section and Benson's understated vocals. But tie on the celebrity blindfold, and Broken Boy Soldiers no longer seems like that much of an achievement just another case of men recreating their favorite vinyl deep cuts, if a bit more skillfully than most FM scrapbookers. The album may prove the Raconteurs to be more than just a vanity project, but still falls short of making enough of an impact to totally overshadow the components' origins. It may be refreshing like an icecold soda to see White toedipping into new territory, but making the switch from black and white (and red) to living color is thrilling only in the relative sense. "}