{"label":" ~scape","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6858/homepage_large.e64506af.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Safety Scissors","title":"Tainted Lunch","text":" This stuff is intricate digital disco, squishy laptop house, and fabulous leftfield pop and none of that is even the main selling point. The real surprises are its warmth and intimacy, humor and whimsy. These qualities aren't necessarily rare in the world of electronic music; there are always people who have more technical skills than things to say, and they've been known to fill the space around their programming with plenty of jackaround jokes. But Safety Scissors' Matthew Curry is not one of them, and Tainted Lunch is anything but the work of a clever brat just a loopy, funny, emotionfilled electronic pop record, one that comes off sweet, humble, and downright generous in spirit. I'm inclined to think this is important, especially when some of the decade's freshest music has come from similar places: Junior Boys and the Streets, Max Tundra and Tujiko Noriko, wide swathes of r&b; all of them bringing the mechanics of electronic music away from the otherworldly and down toward the bedroom conversation. This is a record, after all, that features Curry cheerleading for the fly struggling in his soup, and throughout the record he manages to score smiles and tug heartstrings with the same approach a stoner'seye view of food, housework, war, and (above all) distance. That finetuned microhouse sound comes from recording sessions in Berlin with Vladislav Delay (aka Luomo), and there's an Americanabroad bemusement running through most of these songs. \"Where Is Germany and How Do I Get There\" has Curry wondering if he could walk the Bering Strait back to California before calling in to what must be work: \"I don't think I can make it in today/ Because Germany is far away.\" More chipper is \"Sunlight's on the Other Side\", which frames longdistance love the same way Fievel the mouse once did: \"Driedout grapes are raisins/ Driedout plums are prunes/ All for one reason/ The same sun that shines on you.\" On \"After Disaster\" you get whimsy in the way that works carousel circles of pianolesson chords and banjo, with Curry and Kevin Blechdom singing about bad luck in kindergartenteacher voices: \"My pants are wet\"/ \"What could it be?\"/ \"Did I spill water?\"/ \"It's pee!\" Consider the kind of tonal perfection it takes and the kind of unassuming soul voice to make this stuff seem more loving than arch. Consider that the bulk of this record the bulk of those quotes feels weighty and serious and heartfelt. Consider the way Curry takes a Rimbaud poem about trench warfare, sets it to deep, drizzly house, and turns its food metaphor (\"I am the cheese\") inside out: It's a good approximation of the way lightness and weight play with each other across the length of this disc. Curry has brought a personality out from the washes and drifts of his last fulllength, and it turns out to be wellrounded one curious enough to interweave goofball pop with fine laptop soul. The music is just as seamless, both remarkable and remarkably unobtrusive. The programming here is intricate enough to reward close listening every squish, tick, roll, and stab in its place but it doesn't take a laptop initiate to enjoy it: Curry is just as good with the bigpicture progressions of his songs, and he seems to know why good songwriting will always beat waving his computer skills in your face. Wellplayed guitar leads sneak through the speakers, fat woodwinds honk through the bottom end of \"Sunlight's...,\" and the tone of it all runs from proper digitaldisco pulse (\"Amnesia\") to leftfield pop sparkle from MRI gone whitebread soul to something almost like those moments where Ween surprise you with a nojoke sweetheart pop song. (See also: digital Serge Gainsbourg jazz when Stereo Total's Francoise Cactus makes a cameo.) It's the plainspoken voice and skewed writing style that unite it all, and as Curry sings about his rumpled pants and travel, he starts to seem like well, kind of like he'd make a good roommate. Try this one out: You can listen to it next time you're cleaning the kitchen. "}