{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6867/homepage_large.682b1bed.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Saint Etienne","title":"Travel Edition, 1990-2004","text":" Of all the cyclical trends in pop/rock history, mod revivalism is perhaps the most oxymoronic. England's original mods borrowed elements of continental style and danced to western music from black America and Jamaica, filtering it all into something uniquely English. \"Mod\" is, of course, short for modern, but since the first Weller/Quadropheniainspired revival of its fashion and music, this has been chiefly forgotten. Not so by Saint Etienne, who although they've probably been to a few allnight soul stompers in Italian boots have pulled up the kickstand on their lambrettas and rode openeyed and eared through the past 40 years of music history, making stops in Rio, Paris, Wigan, Kingston, Ibiza, Munich, New York, SoCal, Detroit, and Stockholm along the way. Over the past 15 years, Saint Etienne's music has been the result of the marriage of the best mod traditions of style and sophistication with a restless engagement with the world's best pop sounds. Their albums are like the contents of giant trunks adorned with the stickers from all the places they've visited, unpacked and arranged seamlessly alongside charity shoppurchased souvenirs of London circa 1966 and memories of the city circa 1988.As a result, Saint Etienne have managed to make a career out of the mixing and matching of everything in the past 40 years of rock history except, well, rock'n'roll itself. Their music is a blend of girl group, Motown, Northern soul, disco, yèyè and other French pop, soft pop/bubblegum, acid house, and Europop, with a few spots left on the dance card for techno, dub, hiphop, bossanova, and tropicalia. They've also managed to somehow both inhabit and reflect a very familiar, ordinary world and yet somehow make it seem exotic. Cafès, clubs, dialogue from films, the detritus of failed relationships, the bonds shared by lifelong friends: It's everything your life is made up of except everyone they know is younger and betterlooking and dressed more sharply than everyone you know, and yet they're still approachable and friendly enough to invite you round their house for vodka and lemonade and play you the bside on the Frank Wilson or Skatalites or Walker Brothers 45 they found in Spitalfields market last week.What in the hands of many bands can seem like gravedigging or posturing is with Saint Etienne rather singular, and it's no surprise that this slightly conceptual pop band has attracted such a rabid following. And yet Sub Pop's new singledisc compilation, Travel Edition, 19902005, isn't for those fans; it's for the people who've avoided Saint Etienne, a task that should have been difficult but, depressingly, has been exceedingly easy. A pop band first and foremost, Saint Etienne are perhaps the blueprint for today's fluxpop artists with ultimately pop sensibilites who reach the fringe of success but never crossed over and became mainstream stars (a group that today includes everyone from Annie to Fox n' Wolf to M.I.A.). In the early 90s, Saint Etienne had their share of UK top 40 singles but no honesttogoodness hits. They butted heads against grunge, in the process kickstarting britpop, and then once that devolved into guitarsonly, 60s worship butted heads against it and the laddism that enveloped it, as well. Being slightly out of step may have allowed them the freedom to do what they wanted but it didn't afford them the popularity enjoyed by most of their contemporaries.Travel Edition does a succinct and frankly fair job of cutting through a career that is difficult for newcomers to approach. With no consensus goto Saint Etienne album, and a catalog made of distinct and unique parts, it's difficult to drop in on any single moment and feel satisfied that you've gotten the full picture. Personally, my favorite Saint Etienne LP is the difficulttofind German version of one of their more overlooked records, Tiger Bay. Ask around and you'll be just as likely to hear that save the slight stumble of The Sound of Water any of their studio records is their career peak. Even more confusingly, they have a number of brilliant tracks hidden away on soundtracks, rarities comps, and fan clubonly releases.Travel Edition is surprisingly the group's first U.S. careerspanning compilation and although a pale comparison to the nowOOP 199095 singles comp Too Young to Die or the twodisc 90s comp Smash the System it's still a nicely chosen primer. StS is still easily available, but with the exchange rate the way it is, Sub Pop's abridged edition is a welcome option for couldbe U.S. fans. Its first half is all highs, sullied only by the continually baffling decision not to include Britpop blueprint \"London Belongs to Me\" on any Saint Etienne comps and the omission of \"You're in a Bad Way\". The latter is seemingly replaced by its de facto, bouncingaroundLondon companion piece, So Tough album track \"Mario's Cafè\". All inside jokes and sunny optimism, \"Mario's Cafè\" describes London as a place of lazy pleasures like morning coffee, the Racing Post, the KLF on TV, and the quirks, hopes, and desires of close friends. \"Everyone's dreaming of all they have to live for/ Joking around/ Still digging that sound,\" singer Sarah Cracknell coos. Sometimes losing yourself in London isn't such a bad thing.The rest of the first first half of the disc is sublime: The acidtinged cover of \"Only Love Can Break Your Heart\", the single edit of \"Avenue\", and the tearstained ballads \"Hobart Paving\" and \"Like a Motorway\" are all nearly flawless. The second half is a little heavy on tracks from Saint Etienne's prescient Swedish poptinged Good Humour no surprise, considering it was their only fulllength studio record to come out on Sub Pop. It also includes the oftoverlooked \"Burnt Out Car\", the two best tracks from the underwhelming Sound of Water, and a pair from the returntoform Finisterre.The tugs here for longtime fans are the short, early90s instrumental that acts as the set's overture and a new song which serves as a taster for the band's early 2005 release. Both are excellent. The instrumental, \"Primrose Hill\", is a charming little acoustic strum that hints at the melody to Finisterre's \"Soft Like Me\"; the full new track, \"Fascination\", is a continuation of that record's buzzing, whirling melodies and another of Cracknell's wise, detached urbanrelationship narratives.The album closes with the title track to Finisterre, which reads like the band's manifesto, almost every line a slogan and a hint at why and how they've become such unifying figures over the past 15 years. The song's title refers to Land's End, the place on the English coast in which the world supposedly ends. When paired with claims that \"I like the feeling of being slightly lost/ To find new places\", \"There are too many bands that at length sound tame\", \"So bored with...the myth of common sense\", and \"I believe in love over cynicism\", as well as Cracknell's chorus call, \"Finisterre/ To tear it down/ And start again\", the song neatly encapsulates the band's longtime realization that pop music's traditional timeline and ofttold tales have reached that mythical land's end; that the welltraveled road that led from from Elvis to the Beatles to punk to Nirvana has run into a dead end, and it's time to go back and traverse some of the more overgrown paths, to tell the stories that have been consigned to footnotes in pop's back pages, to start again. If you've not travelled those roads, this is a good a place to begin as any. "}