{"label":" Thrill Jockey / Sonig","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6915/homepage_large.459df598.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Schlammpeitziger","title":"Collected Simplesongs of My Temporary Past","text":" I don't listen to music when I'm depressed, so I've been dreading writing this, my first review since all those thousands of people died in New York, D.C. and Pennsylvania last week. In fact, during the past six days, I haven't listened to any music at all. I tried listening for escape; I tried listening for \"understanding\"; I tried listening just to listen. But nothing worked. My ears were for news and that was that. I was glad, then, to see this record by Schlammpeitziger in my mailbox. Not only is this compilation culled in part from three albums I already own (hence, I already know the music intimately), but the tenor of the music itself made listening bearable. This is simple, pretty, unassuming music existing for no other reason than to bring a little beauty into the world. And right now, it's hard to imagine anything else sounding better. A little background about Schlammpeitziger. The name is a pun on a German word for a species of fish that lives on the ocean floor loosely translated, it means \"mudwhipper.\" Cologne keyboardist Jo Zimmerman uses this breezy handle for his solo music projects. He's worked with others in the Sonig camp, including F.X. Randomiz (the two make lovely music together as Holosud), and his first LP was remastered by Jan and Andi from Mouse on Mars. Musically, Zimmerman is an Elder in the 5% Nation of Casiotone, composing most of his music using the preset tones of cheap, offtherack keyboards. He sticks fairly close to a pop structure, with warm, charming chords playing memorable changes. My first impression was that Zimmerman built his career around the best moments from side two of Kraftwerk's Autobahn, certainly a noble calling. Hearing these songs again for the first time in a while, though, I was struck by how much they reminded me of Plone. They're lovely musicbox melodies with just the right hint of mystery, only unlike the bulk of Plone's songs, these are timeless. From the albums I have, I can say that Zimmerman chose the tracks for this compilation very wisely. All my favorites are here. \"Elektronischer Country,\" from the vinylonly Erdrauchharnschleck, was the first Schlammpeitziger tune I fell in love with. It's a sad ballroom dance for a roomful of junked robots, with a slide guitar telling the leads when to dip. \"Honkytonk Schlickummpittz\" is lighter than Air (French Band), with an inspiring march of melody and gentle, encouraging electronic handclaps. \"Hallimaschbomba im Kreisverkehr\" paints with the 8bit Super Mario Brothers palette, but does so with subtle, spacious strokes, avoiding the grating frenzy of most music inspired by the archaic entertainment system. \"Hydraulicmeisters Halbtagstanz\" sounds like theme music from a late 70s documentary on the jogging craze, poignant and lovely. None of these 13 tracks is less than good. The perfect visual representation of Schlammpeitziger's music is on Augenwischwaldmoppgefloete, which also happens to be my favorite album cover. Check it out sometime. It's a photograph of folks dressed in some kind of Western European Alpine garb, dancing in a circle with locked hands. The women are anchored to the ground while the men float in midleap, writhing like they were each shot out of a cannon. It's one of the purest expressions of joy I can imagine. And like this collection, it seems like a good place to start from when you decide to crawl out of the dark. "}