{"label":" Earsugar","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6922/homepage_large.625819f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Schneider TM","title":"Reconfigures","text":" Given the choice, I tend to prefer a collection of a remixer's work over a collection of an artist's work remixed by different producers. Since the sonic character of a song belongs to the person who last had their fingers on the mouse, an album collecting a producer's remixes tends to flow better and possess something closer to a singular identity. Over the last couple of years, Schneider TM's Dirk Dresselhaus has been a busy remixer, and now he's collected 12 of his remixes and collaborations on Reconfigures. Schneider TM have developed a distinct sonic identity that typically includes vocodered vocals, bits of acoustic guitar, and the kind of squelchy electropop production that Germany made famous, and he's not shy about using his signature tricks to dress up another song. So, immediately, the best thing this collection has going for it is that it works together as a record, with similar elements used in various configurations from track to track. In other words, it sounds something like a Schneider TM album with a host of guest stars. But the stars, well, they're shining pretty dim on Reconfigures. The problem is that most of the songs just weren't that interesting to begin with, and though Dresselhaus does make the most of his source material, the limit to what can be done is apparent. His version of Margo's \"Take Me\" is plodding electroindie, with slightly interesting noises that nonetheless fail to raise the song to the level of a Sukpatch Bside. His take on Lamb's \"Wonder\", in which he adds some backward drums to the lightgray gothic melody, breaks the rhythmic spine of the song, transforming it from merely dull to actively unpleasant. The Faint's \"The Conductor\" gets some vocodered vocals and chunky beats, and probably wouldn't be terrible if I could stomach Todd Baechle's voice. The collaboration \"Ephe Kicks In, Feel Like Kevin\" with K.pt.Michigan and Rechenzentrum, features Marc Marcovic on vocals trying to do Prince track (\"When Doves Cry\" handclaps feature in the production) and coming away with a bad Beck impression instead. On the bright side, the collaboration with Pulseprogramming \"Suck or Run\" is essentially a new (and rather good) Schneider TM song, as Dresselhaus layers his vocals and guitar over the squishy beat, with a fauxStones lead on acoustic and bits of harmonica. Ruby's \"Grace, Space\" has some fantastic wahwah guitar that rises to the level of the most intricate hiphop production, along with the classicsounding soul vocals. Lambchop's \"The New Cobweb Summer\" has an interesting \"broken\" quality that goes beyond the processing of Kurt Wagner's voice, too. But ultimately, despite a few positive blips, Reconfigures fails even with the lowered expectations of a remix collection. "}