{"label":" Teenbeat","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13690/homepage_large.19269b83.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Screamer","title":"Greatest Hits","text":" One night in 1979, a young man soon to be known to the world only as The Screamer called in to a local talk radio show and, halfway through his quite ordinary comment, yelled \"SCUM!\" The host, perplexed, hung up. Moments later, a young man in cahoots called and, halfway through his equally ordinary comment, also yelled \"SCUM!\" Thus was the career of The Screamer born. Over the next fourteen years, he continued to refine his practice, quickly abandoning the Dadaist approach of his early days and moving on to a more evolved style, at one point calling in to a ProLife program to testify to the pain of abortion with his tale of being an aborted child. Now, his greatest hits have been collected and released by TeenBeat so that anyone who didn't sift through hours of routine talk radio in the Washington D.C. area during the golden years leading up to 1993 can hear what was going on in condensed form. The Screamer's body of work stands today as a sometimes boring, sometimes hilarious, always compulsive piece of folk art. In repressive suburbia, there always appear signs that the teenaged members of the clan are not as enchanted with the idea of settling down into an utterly normal, regulated existence, but usually, the results are a few smashed mailboxes and a lot more smashed high schoolers. Perhaps different strains of destructive urges might converge, causing local teens to take their empty liquor bottles and throw them at cars as they pass by. But there is no art, no imagination, no bracing adolescent poetry to any of this. Not so with The Screamer. Greatest Hits shows him dipping fingers, toes, and even naughtier appendages into the stream of bland regularity so as to divert it just a little bit and test out his power to oppose the monolith that drives so many other youngsters to illicit sex and drugs. Perhaps The Screamer couldn't get his sweaty hands on either of those, but if this was ever cause for complaint with him, it's certainly not for those able to hear his calls today. While guardians of the old artistic order constantly complain about the stultifying effect of our whirring electronic media, The Screamer proved (as did many of his freshfaced cohorts, liberated from the shackles of tradition) that you can take any medium, no matter how apparently vapid, and turn it into something great with only creativity and a will to subvert. Which is what makes Greatest Hits an enjoyable listen even when the jokes fall flat, which they occasionally do. To hear the hosts sputter as The Screamer trips them up, or to listen as they rant with excessive hyperbole about the immaturity, stupidity, even insanity of their assailant is to be informed of the fact that this little brat had done some real damage, that beyond just entertaining his small cabal of admirers, he was also reaching beyond the station appointed to him by society. While picking up a phone may not have been as glamorous as picking up a guitar in the late 70s, it was just as punk, and if the humor on Greatest Hits sometimes grows monotonous, well, so did the music of The Damned, and you forgave them, didn't you? "}