{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6932/homepage_large.f87050b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Sea and Cake","title":"Glass EP","text":" The Sea and Cake have never really been the type of band to set shit on fire, but up until this point, most of their postrock experimentation has also come with a nice, fat helping of jazz heart, thus infusing sparse, synthesized, electroacoustic tunes with a shot of emotional credibility. To lose this to ditch the genuine, spiritual inspiration that actually makes music a feasible artform would be, in a certain sense, to render their music useless. There's something uncomfortably sterile about The Sea and Cake's new, sevensong Glass EP that precludes it from functioning emotionally, and music that operates exclusively on an intellectual level seems counterintuitive. Synthesized and aggressively antiseptic, this stuff just makes me nervous I can't conceive of a single viable situation in which somebody would stumble home, pour a bowl of cereal, take off their pants, and say, \"Man, I just really need to hear some of that effin' Glass EP right now.\" It's hardly unreasonable to crave something that makes your eyes roll back in your head, even if just for a few measures; it's far from irrational to require something you can holler at, or, at the very least, exchange satisfying pleasantries with. There's nothing to grab onto here, though no obliging space for eager, sweaty fans to curl up in, no craggy, emotional scraps to latch onto and savor, no telling finger slips or screwed up instrumentation, no gasps for air, no poignant leaps. None of the smelly, awkward, human stuff that really wets everyone's pants. This is expertly assembled music, but it's also impossible not to miss (and fair to demand!) the raw, reeling, otherworldly passion that can, and will, make even the most electronic of albums cry real, salty, facestreaking tears. The plasticwrapped bleakness is most evident on the two opening tracks, \"To the Author (Version 1)\" and \"To the Author (Version 2).\" Even the titles are telling I don't know what kind of manmachine these tunes were scribed for, but it sure as shit wasn't me. Each seems more a selfindulgent experiment in sound than a labor of love or cathartic burst of inspiration, and even with that complaint aside, they're pretty much the same song: there are beeps in different places, structural reconsiderations, and some notable rhythmic switches, but the two still aren't distinct enough to warrant their cold, parenthetical qualifiers. Offering actual, numbered options only makes the songs themselves seem painfully arbitrary: there's no blood pooling on the studio floor here, no clear narrative path, no instinctual reactions or gnashing teeth. The two tracks are artful collages, made from clean bits of actual and/or synthesized sound, and, at some point in the pasting process, the songs also became entirely devoid of greasy human fingerprints, functioning like math equations, fractals, patterns: antiengaging, chillingly definite, and frankly, a bit boring. Sure, there are some wacky waves of synth and an expert, snaking guitar line (with evernimble Tortoisealum John McEntire banging out some brilliantly counterpoint drumbeats), but they don't add up to any logical conclusion or soulful epiphany just a big, shiny robotface staring blankly back. On Version 2, when Sam Prekop's breathy, limited coo blows up nearly five minutes in, the sudden and unexpected presence of something vulnerable and nonmetallic is intensely comforting it's like being tugged out of an avalanche by one of those furry dogs with a tube of hot cocoa tied around its neck. Remixes only work when they crack open the casing and rewire some circuitry, rethinking the process and the story. But again, The Sea and Cake seem to be unfairly shying away from their creative responsibilities here, opting for hedonistic experimentation over honest, genuine output. It's fine for those happy to throw on the disc and do something else (like use their graphing calculator), but if you're looking for music to really listen to the kind of music that The Sea and Cake are better suited to producing just skip ahead to the third track, \"Traditional Wax Coin\", a pianodriven instrumental jaunt with all kinds of compelling tricks and some wildly good jazz drums, or \"An Echo In\", the last new track on Glass, a contemplative guitar jaunt with fuzzy bass and euphoric vocals. Even \"Interiors\" and \"Hotel Tell\" (each culled from 2002's fulllength One Bedroom, and reinterpreted here by Broadcast and Carl Craig, respectively) toy with some workable emotion: on \"Hotel Tell\", Prekop's singing is certifiably inspired (if a little strained), and Eric Claridge's bouncing bassline is genuinely charming. It's getting warmer in here, boys. Johnny 5 is alive! "}