{"label":" Frenchkiss","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/6937/homepage_large.9998a831.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Sean Na Na","title":"My Majesty","text":" At some slick but not too slick hotel lounge in some secondtier metropolis, The International Association of Misanthropic Singer/Songwriters convenes for their secret, annual conference. After a bitter welcome speech by chairmanatlarge Elvis Costello, the conventioneers migrate to the piano bar for sour cocktails and punny piano jazz courtesy of association member Ben Folds. Conversation topics focus largely on selfaggrandizing tales of how former bullies now quiver in the presence of their still puny, yet now famous victims, what a pain in the ass exgirlfriends and exwives can be, and why after over thirty years of existence, the association is still predominated by middleclass white men. At dinner, association members are served six courses of mediocre food, snarl sarcastically at the waiting staff, and play ironic word games while trying to ignore the infernal whining of recently disciplined Association Secretary Rivers Cuomo. After a workshop on writing evil epithets to exband members (who may or may be pursuing litigation), the members retire to their uncomfortable hotel rooms to groan at the television and think up new synonyms for 'acrid.' Sean Tillmann (aka Sean Na Na) would be one of the youngest attendees, sulking in the back at an indie table, passing notes on cocktail napkins and wondering why no one invited Cheap Trick. Like his more famous brethren, Sean Na Na airs his complaints over an eminently catchy pop soundtrack. On My Majesty, he largely sheds his folky, singer/songwriter persona in favor of fullband integration. The broader instrumentation allows Sean the luxury of letting loose his powerpop persona, while deflecting a bit of the lyrical malice a nice move. Compare the upbeat album opener \"Double Date\" (with its handclaps, tambourines, and assorted pop conceits) with the solo pianoballad closer \"I Need a Girl\" and you'll get what I'm talking about. It's easier to take Sean Na Na's tone in a pop song. The faux sincerity of the acoustic singer/songwriter schtick is a strange bedfellow to lyrics like, \"I need a sugar mommy to pay for me because these days I'm just not earning my keep.\" Conversely, Tillman does well when he keeps it light. I never thought I'd say this, but overindulgence in selfconscious smartassery once a seemingly ubiquitous tendency in indiepop circles is a welcome respite from his earnest, confessional peers. There's something to be said for the man who actually sings, \"The Easter Bunny came this year and brought no eggs,\" on \"Give Me a BSide\" (which, despite absence of organ, sounds somewhat like betterthanaverage Quasi). The jangly, new wavetinged \"I Hate Saxophones\" is hilarious and notable for its inclusion of the line, \"All abandoned free jazz refugees should cooperate during questioning.\" Sean Na Na's lighthearted take on big powerpop affectation a la Cheap Trick predominates throughout the album. The British Invasionstyle wouldbe stadium rocker \"Grew into My Body\" (a lookwho'slaughingnow tirade to a grade school bully) is a clear high point, as is the supremely pissed off, minorkeyed, litemetal of \"Big Trouble.\"My Majesty could be a great album or rather, Sean Na Na could be seated at the head of the Misanthropic Pop Convention table were it not for mediocre production (note to upcoming powerpopsters, lofi is preferable to timid hifi). I really want this to be louder, and I have the volume turned as high as building regulations will allow. Also, the single focus of the lyrics gets a little repetitive, especially when coupled with Sean Na Na's occasionally whiny vocals. That said, My Majesty is a considerable improvement on Sean Na Na's previous solo work. Sour, silly selfloathing you can dance to hardly revolutionary, but not a bad ride. "}