{"label":" Jetset","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6940/homepage_large.2aa4e731.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Seaworthy","title":"The Ride","text":" If my band was mentioned in Jane magazine's \"Cute Band Alert,\" I'd be worried about looking like some soulless corporaterock posterboy. Thankfully, Macha put musicianship first. After a trip to Indonesia, the fourpiece fused indie rock with Eastern instrumentation, resulting in polyrhythmic songs full of plucked zithers, hammered dulcimers and ringing metallophones. Some said that Atlanta's Machamen, by using conventional lyrics and choruses, had missed the point: reaching a state of trance. But fusion was the point, and during their live shows with Bedhead, as Macha constantly switched between instruments and launched into intense jams, you could hear an enlightening vibe far more exciting than any Jah Wobble worldbeat kitsch. Seaworthy is the solo project of Macha frontman Josh McKay. He's caught between his past and future on The Ride, which ditches Eastern instruments for the most part but still focuses on layered waves of sound (though in an altogether more smooth and subtle approach). The ambiance on this LP carries hints of McKay's preMacha days in Emperor Moth, a brooding rock trio from Gainesville, Florida. All three of McKay's projects reveal his draw towards the tension created by the drone, and the moody keyboards and deep basslines here were captured perfectly in the mix done at Andy LeMaster's Chase Park Transduction studio in Athens. McKay's balance between abstraction and conventional songwriting has yielded another great album.The Ride begins with \"Open the Gates,\" as a lumbering dreadnought of a guitar riff plows through staccato percussion and harpsichordlike ornamentation. The sinewy lines segue directly into \"I Met Her in the Candy Store.\" The guitars become muted and the sinister feeling fades, replaced by creaking scrapes of feedback crenellated along the main bass groove. McKay's breathy vocals barely raise above a whisper, but they manage to make the otherwiseedgy music strangely inviting. His hushed phrasings are difficult to decipher, but you can make out, \"Your voice invites everyone into contact with your thoughts.\" This piece glides into \"Sea Manta,\" a wavering, aquatic instrumental similar to Tortoise's \"Dear Grandma and Grandpa.\" \"Lone Star Samba\" is more easily accessible. A hihat ticks incessantly amongst other soft percussive rumblings, as McKay warmly sings, \"Talk to me, through the bedroom wall/ Does your guard come down, when I'm not around?\" The second verse begins with vibraphone rolls eddying upward. Snippets of sampled conversation begin to appear in the song, little giggles and laughs punctuating the mix with a sense of intimacy. \"You and me, just one more hour\" a statement, or a plea? Instead of revelation, a pulsing drone washes into a canyon of reverb on \"In Anticipation Of,\" a short prelude to \"The Day,\" one of two surprisingly great pop tracks that appear in the middle of the album. Prolific Japanese musician Haco glows here, her voice patiently pausing and then echoing dramatically over plodding drums and the accompaniment of ringing bell sounds. \"Identifying the Body\" features vocals from Azure Ray seraph Orenda Fink. Triphop beats shuffle while Fink's electronically filtered voice reaches an otherworldly androgyny, even if the hook sounds like Bono on \"The Fly.\" This song just soars, all the more surprising that it leads into a disappointing closer. The twopart title track \"The Ride\" aims for the blissedout distortion of REM's \"Let Me In,\" but the avantgarde vocal harmony sounds as annoying as the choral theatrics Cerberus Shoal has been into lately. The dense, wheezing soundbursts aren't awful, but after so many successful tracks, this murky sequence is a letdown. The photos on the sleeve cover of The Ride are all of bodies: a woman wrapped in a towel, only visible by the light from a window; a color shot of someone's back, shadowlit and androgynous; a closeup of someone's long, curly hair. I wonder whether the concept (signifiers: the sampled conversation, the song titles, the printed lyrics for the title track) is just about a relationship, or maybe also its collapse. The narrative flow is enthralling, and might be a good opiate during those times. It's the first good 2002 album I've heard, and I didn't even get annoyed at the nautical theme. "}