{"label":" Klein","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13572/homepage_large.c67df9e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Seelenluft","title":"Out of the Woods","text":" Having apparently exhausted all of his native Switzerland's freakiness when he completed his music for a Zurichbased synchronized swimming team, Seelenluft's lone operator Beat Soler took himself off to Los Angeles. As numerous portrayals have documented, L.A. is one helluva bizarre place. From Nathaniel West's The Day of the Locust to David Lynch's Mulholland Drive, the city has proven itself the worldleader in disturbing fakery and creepy superficiality. So you'd think L.A. would be Soler's kind of town, seeing as how he often adopts the persona of a trumpetplaying bunny/human hybrid called Silvercity Bob. Out of the Woods, however, with a couple of exceptions, is a rather conventional downtempo offering. The album begins with a paean to the female residents of the city. \"L.A. Woman\" is not a cover of the Doors' lugubrious drivetime staple, though Soler's song has similar ambivalence towards its subject. In contrast to the underwhelming opening track, the second, \"Manila\", is as unexpected as an honest cop stationed in Rampart. Apparently, Soler found the song's guest vocalist while walking the sunkissed, capdappled streets of Compton. Yes, a white Swiss man in a bunny suit would have walked free and easy, with nary a care in the world, through zones abandoned by all but the Bloods and the Crips. Perhaps the gang members recognized Soler's Swiss neutrality and allowed him uninhabited passage, or maybe he was really being a doortodoor salesman, offering Compton's residents a great deal on a new cuckoo clock. Whatever his true purpose, Soler did discover 12yearold Michael Smith, who provides \"Manila\" with his atrociousbututterlycharming mic skills. The kid clearly can't rap he has fits instead of flow but he does have charisma. His spoken word bit about being on a plane bound for Manila and asking for curried chicken as the pilots lose control is delivered in a series of herkyjerky inflections and with enormous relish. You can hear how proud he is of himself especially when he nearly shouts that, whilst in tailspin, he encourages all the passengers just to dance. His enthusiasm and joyinthefaceofperil is truly remarkable and that Soler chose to include this unique song (and release it as a 12\" single with a feisty Manitoba remix) proves, if nothing else, that he knows when he's on. The remaining ten tracks unfortunately fail to build on Smith's exuberance. The upright bass and vibraphone of \"Echokiller\" immediately connect the listener with Seelenluft's Synchronschwimmer EP, but the song lacks the kitschy glee that pervaded that record. Each time Soler and his Silvercity Bob Orchestra repeat the head, it sounds more and more labored. When Soler steps up to his Rhodes to take a solo, it's more like a talented amateur comping than a meaningful elaboration on a musical theme. \"Air Condition\", bucking on a series of perpetually breaking beats, stabilizes somewhat when guest vocalist Lara Stuart delivers Soler's equating of a relationship coolingoff with the efficiency of her recently overhauled 4000 BTU Trane window unit. Orchestra member Christian Fischer resurrects the tenor sounds of that ancient instrument, the transverse flute, for \"Boobsie and Pepsy\". Lacking any real substance, this instrumental is only noteworthy because of that breed of flute's slightly irregular appearance. A very youthful (and probably highly Botoxed) 83yearold introduces \"Dancing Grandma\". Soler takes the sinewave bass and almosttwostep percussion patterns of DJ Zinc's \"138 Trek\" and adds dapples of Rhodes piano. Again, in contrast to \"Manila\", the track is unremarkable. When Lou Barlow made his move out west, he summed up his ambivalence to L.A. with the processed vocals of \"E.Z.L.A.\" Soler took note of Barlow's trope and processes Christian Fischer's vocals on \"Piano J\". The result is as blatant a knockoff as the Kate Spade handbags sold on street corners. Despite beginning promisingly with analogue filth, \"The Evil Frog\" soon lapses into familiarity when Soler cutandpastes a preacher's sermon on the reach of Satan and the money's power to corrupt. Much of this is righted, though, when Soler cutandpastes the gorgeously alien voices of a duo called the Saigon Sisters into the upright bass and vibes of \"Yoa Gongla\".Out of the Woods is a pretty big disappointment for me. I've adored Seelenluft's previous releases and imagined him to be one of the few acts that would push downtempo away from the conservative humdrum of massmarket ChillOut Lounge comps. But this album leaves no one satisfied: the Dido and Moby massive will find it too awkward for dinner table background music, and those of us who desire more innovation will find it simply lacking in distinction. "}