{"label":" Repo","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6960/homepage_large.9085a6e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Sentridoh","title":"Free Sentridoh: Tales from Loobiecore","text":" Once upon a time there was a man let's call him, I dunno, L. Barlow. No, that's too easy; let's call him Lou B. Anyway, Lou wanted to make music more than anything else in the world, so one day, he found a few other likeminded individuals and they formed a band known as Sebadoh. They wrote songs about girls and weed, and they played them for people. And so it came to pass on that fateful day that one of the founding forces of lofi indie rock was born, and a small section of the music world would be changed for the better, forever. But Lou B. was not entirely happy with the musical genius of Sebadoh, and decided that he needed a more personal outlet for his musical demons one free of the evils of excess instrumentation. So he stripped his songs to their barest, most vulnerable elements and exposed them for all to see. He released these brave new songs under the guise of Sentridoh, and, well, not too many people noticed.Free Sentridoh: Tales from Loobiecore is the latest incarnation of Lou Barlow's work as Sentridoh, and I wish I could say that this little fairy tale has a happy ending. I really do. Unfortunately, Tales from Loobiecore doesn't deviate from the formula he established on the first two Sentridoh releases, only even less inspired and just plain bland most of the time. As before, the recording quality is as lofi as it gets, and each one of the twentythree tracks features Lou on his guitar with only an occasional assist on backing vocals or music. Half the tracks sound the same, right down to the chord structure. And while no single track is terrible on its own, there's no reason that these should all find their way onto one album because together, they're almost totally ignorable. For the most part, the tone of the songs is distinctly personal, even at their most bizarre, on tracks like \"Spacescape Imagination Station.\" Barlow comes across as earnestly and sorrowfully as he always has, which is the one thing that holds the album together at all. When the album works, it's due to a complete lack of pretense. But there is a tradeoff. Although never a problem with his work in Sebadoh and Folk Implosion, the trademark sincerity of these tunes comes at the expense of this album's vitality. Most of the songs just fizzle out after two minutes or so, leaving very little impression as they pass. On the few occasions when Tales from Loobiecore does start to show signs of life, like \"The Devil and the Barbie Doll\" or \"Impulse,\" Barlow's vocals quickly snuff it. With a band behind him, he can pull off his lessthanenergetic delivery, but here his voice is fully half of every song; when the music actually picks up, Lou's vocals just aren't up to task. Still, for its misfires, the record isn't a complete washout Barlow's songwriting ability is too solid to go 0for23. In fact, some truly fantastic songs can be found here, especially in comparison with the other mostly forgettable tunes. \"WWJD?\" is one case when the direct, honest approach of the album works to beautiful effect, and the confessional aspect of Lou's writing is exemplified in the surprisingly touching \"None of Your Goddambizness.\" \"Ride a Hearse, Build a Throne\" can go toetotoe with some of the best stuff he's ever done, period. Sadly, though, the great songs are in the minority, and easily lost among the rest of the set.Tales from Loobiecore feels almost uncomfortably poignant considering Interscope's recent decision to drop the Folk Implosion, too. Maybe Lou's depressed (more than usual, I mean)? \"I let Methamphetamine burn a hole in my brain/ The part of my brain that wrote the songs/ When all of my confidence had jumped the fence and moved along,\" he sings on the eerily Don MacLeanesque \"Don't Call Me Writer.\" Whether or not it was his intent, I feel kind of bad for the guy. Hopefully, his new postFolk Implosion project will cheer him up, but until then, we all have Sentridoh to deal with. The music can grow on you, but ultimately there isn't much to redeem Tales from Loobiecore. It slips into a coma before the fiveminute mark, and though it shows promise here and there, even a diehard Lou Barlow fan might consider pulling the plug. "}