{"label":" Animal World","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6976/homepage_large.43d612b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Better Than the Beatles: A Tribute to the Shaggs","text":" Everyone from Led Zeppelin to Jandek has one, so why not the Shaggs? Why not? I imagine that must have been the response from most of the involved parties when asked to contribute to Better Than the Beatles: A Tribute to the Shaggs. Why not? I've never been a fan of tribute albums. They just seem gratuitous, and a way for bands (and labels) to gain notoriety through association a shortcut bypassing actual work. They're the equivalent of album filler in any CD collection, ranking just above soundtrack compilations in my book (hello, Batman Forever). But having heard of the Shaggs years ago, and actually hearing their music years later, I asked myself the same question: why not? After all, it's got an interesting lineup of offkilter artists (Thinking Fellers, Danielson Famile, Optiganally Yours, etc.), and it's not like any of them are going to commit a sacrilegious travesty by ruining an original, or bore you to death with simple mimicry. Both would be nearly impossible.. But what kind of world do we live in where a trio of musically disinclined sisters from rural New Hampshire driven to practice and perform by a superstitious, and perhaps tyrannical, father who believed his mother foretold the group can cut an album full of what can only be called \"attempted\" pop songs, and thirty years later be subject of an honorary tribute? The answer: a strange and beautiful one, friends. And if that sounds naïvely optimistic, so be it. It comes from listening to the Shaggs' naïve stabs at musicianship. All the same, it's not an uncommon reaction to think a joke is being played on you when you listen to the Shaggs that's part of the appeal. \"Who do these people think they are? What was going through their heads when they recorded this?\" Trying to answer these questions is half the fun. Then there's the fact that the Shaggs seem to have singlehandedly (though unwittingly) laid the groundwork for the fauxnaivete of tweepop and possibly K Records itself. And then there's the proclamation by legendary wiseass Frank Zappa that the Shaggs were better than the Beatles, a statement so confounding of popular logic that it just adds more confusion and mystery to the mix. Although hated by many (and ignored by many more), few people argue that the Shaggs possessed no personality or spirit. The question is, did they have something else? Is there any merit to their songwriting? If so, it should shine through in the hands of able musicians, right? Well, right, but very unexpectedly, the problem here isn't with the material, it's with the \"able musicians.\" Most of the participants choose to tiptoe around the songs, rarely cutting loose or experimenting, possibly for fear of accusations of trying to outShagg the Shaggs. True to tribute album custom, the Big Guns are put up front, as Ida starts the album off with \"Philosophy of the World,\" the title track of the lone proper Shaggs album. The upbeat, skalike rhythm of the original is traded in for what sounds like a Scottish dirge, proving Ida can sap the energy out of almost anything. Optiganally Yours is next with a slightly more interesting, but similarly drab \"You're Something Special to Me.\" Of all the bands on this record, I had the biggest hopes for Thinking Fellers Union Local 282 and their version of \"Who are Parents,\" but they too take the catatonic route, risking little and turning in another disappointment. Mongrel breaks up the monotony with a somber but spirited rendition of \"My Cutie,\" finally busting out an acoustic guitar in favor of organ. Bauer's \"We have a Savior\" returns to the keyboard (it's as though there's a timidity toward approaching the guitarwork of frontShagg Dot Wiggin), but the inner creepiness comes through here, as well as on Joost Visser's Will Oldhamlike treatment of \"It's Halloween.\" Deerhoof takes on the quintessential Shaggs' song, \"My Pal Foot Foot.\" Building on bouncy sound effects, they come away with the best song on the album. R. Stevie Moore & the OlsiewicsChusid Ensemble, followed by Plastic Mastery, cling close to the originals of \"My Companion\" and \"Shaggs' Own Thing\" respectfully, while the Slot Racers do a folky medley of \"Painful Memories\" and \"Wheels.\" Next up, the Danielson Famile take their shot at \"Who are Parents,\" and come away with hilarious results, complete with lisping babytalk vocals which erase the album's early disappointments. Later, the Furtips' \"You're Something Special to Me\" recalls the Modern Lovers, and the Double U finish things off with a more playful version of the opening song. Like most tribute albums, Better than the Beatles succeeds less as a cohesive statement than as way of piquing interest in lesser known artists. But wait a minute, didn't I come out against that kind of thing near the beginning of this review? "}