{"label":" Rounder","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6977/homepage_large.a79a18f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"Shaggs","title":"The Shaggs","text":" I've always found it odd that the music of The Shaggs usually elicits either sidesplitting laughter or mesmerized awe. Both reactions are surprisingly extreme, because The Shaggs' catalog, collected in its entirety on this rehashing of a 1988 Rounder compilation, has always struck me as awkward and poignant, with subtle hints of tragedy lurking beneath the music's surface. The Shaggs' backstory is legendary: Sometime circa 1968, the Wiggin sisters Dot, Betty, and Helen, at the insistence of their enigmatic, overbearing father Austin Wiggin, Jr., formed a family pop band, presumably to fulfill one of dad's vicarious fantasies. Only one year after devoting their energies toward music lessons (they were homeschooled to help maintain musical focus), the Wiggins entered a cheap recording studio and emerged with Philosophy of the World, which amazingly became one of the great obscure gems of all time after its NRBQbacked rerelease in the 1980s. If their initial popularity was contingent on chance, The Shaggs' longevity is no fluke their music is brutally honest and has always been primarily informed by adolescent guilt (\"I learned my lesson never to roam\"), an open love of innocuous pop (\"my companion is my radio\"), shame (\"sometimes I feel bottled up inside\"), and a profound sense of obligation to family. \"Who Are Parents\" posits that kids who \"do things their own way [and] don't know what life really means,\" and that strict adherence to \"certain rules,\" though seemingly \"cruel,\" is the family ideal. Discussions of the Wiggins' dexterity as pop musicians are usually relegated to the two extremes of The Shaggs spectrum: Their complete lack of traditional musical sense is either uproarious or somehow transcendent in its crudeness. The uniform complexity of The Shaggs' songs, and the fortitude of their nascent musicianship, is often overlooked. The 2001 tribute album to The Shaggs emphasizes just how tenuous and complicated their compositions really are; most of the artists perform their chosen covers with the reluctance and reserve of a sightreading community theater pianist. And who could blame them? There is no discernible meter or chord structure to follow, and The Shaggs' melodies are pretty much constructed at random, becoming a series of bastardized scale exercises. But this isn't a simple case of lead singer Dot making up the tune as she pleases. Her sister Betty unfailingly sings every arbitrary note in unison. Whether this was the result of constant practice (another disconcerting hint at the likely atmosphere of \"jam sessions\" in the Wiggin household) or some kind of psychic sibling intuition is anyone's guess. The Shaggs' later material, which consists entirely of the mid70s LP Shaggs' Own Thing, falls back on amateurish bubblegum country, underscoring the singularity and starkness of their debut. But even this comparatively mediocre record packs a subversive punch. The title track, a duet between father Wiggin and eldest brother Robert, is particularly disturbing in the song, Austin catches another man (his son) \"sneakin' out\" with his girl and \"doin' it\" with her. I guess no one in the recording booth interrupted to explain the Oedipal implications to the (presumably) oblivious parties involved. Most who have heard The Shaggs know where they stand. To those who think the music is \"hilarious,\" this compilation isn't essential, but will certainly provide more fodder for easy mocking; to those who worship every note the band ever recorded, you almost certainly own this album already in one of its previous incarnations, and are advised to wait it out for the Philosophy of the World fivedisc deluxe box set, which includes the complete unedited session tapes and a 300page booklet of assorted Foot Foot sketches. "}