{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/6980/homepage_large.789c9b4b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Shalabi Effect","title":"Pink Abyss","text":" Okay, so you've got Herb Alpert, alright? He's got his trumpet with him and he's doing his thing, blowing smooth leads with an easy sense of cool that seems to come naturally. He's backed by a couple of members of Spector's Wrecking Crew and they're grooving, deep in the moment. Oh, and they're all standing kneedeep in the bubbling swamps of Dagobah, and there are thousands of Imperial stormtroopers engaged in an intense laser battle with a ragtag group of rebels all around them. To many, this circumstance is incongruous; to Shalabi Effect, it's all in a day's work. In fact, they've actually approximated this very scene I've described on \"Blue Sunshine\", one of a handful of tracks on their third album that incorporates unabashed pop in ways only a group of avantgarde tricksters like these four Quebecois noiseniks could. It's clear from a trip through their back catalog that Shalabi Effect are no threat to the charts, but their particular brand of mildly psychedelic soundscaping has always managed to remain accessible relative to its closest counterparts, so the fact that several songs on the sounsubtlytitled Pink Abyss sport memorable melodies and rather conventional structures shouldn't come as too much of a surprise. It does represent an expansion of the band's aesthetic territory, though, and they cover the new ground well, perhaps even better than they address their past. Lest I have you believing that Osama Shalabi and his associates are one step away from hiring The Matrix and ditching their tablas at Goodwill, I should point out that, as they draw pop convention close with one hand, they punish it with the other. Just as they assault guest trumpeter Charles Spearin (Broken Social Scene, Do Make Say Think) with sawtooth waves and gurgling ambience on \"Blue Sunshine\", they can't keep their slimy hands off icy chanteuse Elizabeth Anka Vajagic's swooping, triphoppy delivery on \"Bright Guilty World\". She swoons over brushed drums and a creeping bassline, a standard enough arrangement, but the song's edges are filled with ominous swells and unsettling clumps of barely subdued noise. \"Iron & Blood\" opens as squishy gothic zombie pop featuring a moaning chorus of lalala's and some disembodied piano parts, but it slowly morphs into a gradually accelerating guitar raga, ending at a raging clip and providing the kind of taut climax that this band once avoided. They do still make room for a few pure sound collages, most notably \"Message from the Pink Abyss\", which opens the album with the stomach gurgles of cyborg aliens and panicked murmurs of forest nymphs, a squelching, breathing heap of noise that frankly isn't terribly captivating oddly, it feels like the most predictable track here. The album closes with \"Kinder Surprise\", a song that is, in many respects, the embodiment of its title, a gentle stream of organ and guitar cut through with bird songs that never reaches for the unsettling dissonance of the rest of the album. Pink Abyss is something of a musical shift in gears for Shalabi Effect, but in the end, it actually mirrors the band's two previous albums in its very unpredictability. It's never quite as arresting or inscrutably powerful as The Trial of StOrange, but is every bit as worthy and forwardlooking. "}