{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6981/homepage_large.7d0e75ad.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Shalabi Effect","title":"Unfortunately","text":" Montreal's Shalabi Effect have only been releasing records since 1998, but they've covered a lot of ground. Staffed with strong and versatile musicians, all of whom, one presumes, have large record collections, they're able to move in whatever direction their improvcraving hearts desire. If it's true such outfits are sometimes easier to admire as a \"project\" than an actual musical experience, there's always an appealing moment of anticipation when a new record comes on the market: What's this one going to sound like? Though there is no crowd noise and the recording quality is excellent, Unfortunately is a live album, capturing the band at a Montreal arts festival in May 2005. Across nine tracks they dabble in virtually every style they've shown, foregoing only extended drones and sidelong psych jams. The opening \"Out of the Closet\" is a slowly burning ember of creepiness รก la Nurse With Wound, with creaking noises of indeterminate origin mixed with wounded, moaning vocals. How this amalgamation of electronics played out onstage I can only guess, but the band switches gears immediately on \"Pai Nai\", fusing Middle Eastern scales to a grubby mod guitar instrumental. \"Early Reptilian Memories\" is a rumbling percussive throwdown, with two or three sets of hands working over kits beneath more impenetrable vocalizing, and it bleeds into a sound collage of Arabic voices and the noise rock of \"Monobrow\". This is followed into the delicate acoustic plucking of \"Half Life\", backed by subtle samples and effects, and then into \"Beluga\", which sounds like a twisted version of a High Llamas track. At that point, the jet lag starts to set in. The genrehopping works because Shalabi Effect seem comfortable in different settings, but at the same time, none of these tracks stand out among the best of their kind. When the band flips the fakebook to droning ragarock on \"Harpie\" its true strength is revealed. There's time to breath as Sam Shalabi's patiently explores of a single chord; oud, guitar and tabla wind themselves around each other in a serpentine dance that may as well go on forever. Unfortunately is an effective and honest Shalabi Effect sampler, but a halfdozen albums worth of ideas fly by without really sticking. More than anything it points up that these guys thrive on limitation. "}