{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/6982/homepage_large.71235e87.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Sam Shalabi","title":"On Hashish","text":" A quick glance at this album cover might make the longtime Pitchfork reader yearn for the skewedbuteffective prose of Mr. James Wisdom, but the title does not, in fact, refer to the mindset of its construction. As detailed on the inside cover of the album, On Hashish is an homage to German cultural theorist Walter Benjamin, who worked on a book bearing the same title, which remained unfinished at the time of his death in 1940. Shalabi's On Hashish would probably make lousy drug music for anyone but the most daring, anyway, because this album is packed with dense, unsettling passages of sound likely to trigger a bad freakout in even the most seasoned psychedelic traveler. It's been creeping me out, even though I've been sober as a judge every time I've heard it. Shalabi's method for this record was to record instrumental passages by some of his favorite Montreal musicians (including bassist Alexandre St. Onge from the Shalabi Effect, and Thierry Amar and Norslola Johnson from Godspeed You Black Emperor!) and then completely rearrange the recordings into an abstract soundfield that owes something to musique concrète. As would be expected given the circumstances surrounding its creation, On Hashish is a more difficult listen than the more bandoriented affairs of the Shalabi Effect, and winds up being closer in spirit to last year's satisfying collaboration Kristian, Shalabi, St. Onge. The centerpiece of On Hashish is the 26minute opener \"Outside Chance (Dreamfangs).\" Whether or not the title was meant as a pun, it seems plausible that chance indeed played a role in the track's composition. The beginning section consists of cymbal splashes that sound like a glass endlessly shattering in extreme slow motion, random piano tinkles, some distant vocalizations, and periodic bows from the doublebass of St. Onge. A couple minutes of indeterminate percussion form a bridge to the next section, a thick cluster of flute tones organized to sound like otherworldly sobs. Stabs of noise, probably emanating from instruments being manipulated in nontraditional ways, punctuate this moving passage. From there, the piece incorporates assorted field recordings and coasts out on a deep, rumbling drone and some analog glitches. An air of ceremony pervades the effective \"Outside Chance (Dreamfangs),\" giving it the quality of mourning music from another dimension. \"Soot\" begins with a collective freejazzy blast of reeds and horns, and then modulates into a disturbing bit of drone music anchored around a constantly wavering and badly distorted sine wave tone. The electronics continue to do battle with the swirl of the horns as other noises fold in, lending a Cageian air of chaos. An abrupt cut leads to \"The Wherewithal,\" a nearly eightminute piece cooped mostly of hiss, chirps, static and subsonic rumbles, which manages to be comforting despite its noisy surface, almost like a sleepinducing wall of pink noise. While passages of \"Outside Chance (Dreamfangs)\" are undeniably powerful, \"The Wherewithal\" has a truly odd tranquility, and \"Soot\" is impressively abrasive, something keeps me from labeling On Hashish as a great album. Part of my problem is that it's difficult to imagine the mood that would compel me to pull the record from the shelf but there's something else missing. These long, abstract pieces are definitely meant to be heard in a single sitting, but the album as a whole never quite congeals. The pacing seems slightly off, with some stretches that degenerate into tedium, and, \"Soot\" aside, there isn't a lot of dynamic range. Still, there are more than enough riveting passages here to demand attention from Shalabi admirers, and one has to marvel at the consistently high level of the man's prolific output. "}