{"label":" spinART / Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/6997/homepage_large.5a367373.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Shelleydevoto","title":"Buzzkunst","text":" It's been more than 20 years since Howard Devoto and Pete Shelley last made music together. Even during their original mid70s partnership as the founders of Manchester's indomitable Buzzcocks, they didn't make very much music only one full album's worth of songs ever came out of their partnership before Devoto split and formed Magazine. But what a great batch of songs those were, from the frustrated sexual rumble of \"Orgasm Addict\" to the insightful musings of \"Boredom.\" Shelley continued to front the Buzzcocks on and off for two decades, while Devoto wrapped up Magazine and dipped in and out of the music industry, ultimately ending up at a photography agency in the early 90s. Now, long after the punk movement the two helped nurture in its infancy has been coopted for the more scripted and watereddown theatrics of commercialminded revivalists, Devoto and Shelley are back together with a brand new album. Needless to say, expectations are high for a release like this the towering legacy of their original collaboration (coupled with the outstanding work each has done since they parted ways) amount to a pretty big cloud of expectation. It's important, however, to remember not to let that cloud obscure the final product, because, after all, this isn't a Buzzcocks reunion, nor do the pair intend to visit past glories. Rather, the duo seems to have simply felt like working together again, and you're not going to notice many musical similarities between the electronic throb of Buzzkunst (kunst is German for art, by the way) and the primal pounce of the Spiral Scratch EP. Whereas the Buzzcocks drew from the pummeling attack of the Stooges and the noisy offhandedness of the Velvet Underground, Shelleydevoto is more indebted to the synthdriven end of the postpunk spectrum. Think Shriekback, the Human League and Depeche Mode at their darkest and most frenzied, and you're just about there. Of course, those are just reference points, as the Shelleydevoto never end up sounding completely like any of those bands. First of all, Devoto's vocals are quite distinctive he hasn't lost a bit of the quirk and ease of delivery that he was gifted with early on in his career. Secondly, Shelley's electronically sequenced arrangements are more given to chaos and dissonance than any of their likely influences, and his guitar playing is still razorsharp and not afraid to cut. It's not as though Devoto and Shelley haven't been in synthpop territory before Devoto's late80s duo Luxuria and Shelley's own solo work both anticipate a project like this.Buzzkunst doesn't exactly offer any revelatory music, but it certainly is good, sometimes even great. Devoto's panache as a vocalist certainly helps things a lot, and the duo's smart enough to realize that they work best together when the music moves at high speeds. They burst out of the gate with the Kraftwerkonuppers groove of \"Can You See Me Shining?\" Devoto's melody is superb, setting up some wonderful tension in the chorus before releasing it with swooping, melismatic passages. The shiniest gem in the bunch is \"Til the Stars In His Eyes Are Dead,\" with its driving synthpunk rhythms, atonal guitar workouts, and a spooked delivery from Devoto that picks up right where Magazine left off. \"SelfDestruction\" lands the two on the dancefloor at a demented rave, with backing vocals from Kay Hoffnung coolly playing foil to Devoto's multitracked weirdness. Shelley's drum programming is at its best, fluidly switching between frantic beat patterns to support Devoto's earfriendly melody. Alongside such successes, though, are a few tracks that don't work quite as well especially the instrumentals sprinkled through the disc. Though not exactly bad, none of them really do much for the album, with the possible exception of \"On Solids,\" featuring Harrison Smith's soprano and tenor saxes. The new texture is a nice interjection for the middle of the album and helps to brighten an otherwise fairly dark mood. More generally, some of the homerecorded, sequenced backgrounds occasionally sound a bit limp, especially when Devoto gives his most passionate delivery on top. Still, I personally take some relief in the fact that Devoto and Shelley haven't made Spiral Scratch II or tried to replicate their past from the pieces that are still left. If I want to hear the magic of the original Buzzcocks, I can just go listen to \"Breakdown.\" What I have here is an honest, uncompromised record that also happens to be pretty damn good. It honors Shelley and Devoto's considerable history together and brings two of punk's most original voices back on convergent paths. "}