{"label":" DeSoto","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7000/homepage_large.fad8a9e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Shiner","title":"The Egg","text":" Hey, everybody it's summertime! Time for puppy dogs playing in the grass, sundresses billowing in the breeze and discreetly trying to air the sweat off your back when you enter your airconditioned workplace. Oh, and did I mention the rock? You gotta have a soundtrack for your summer, and like Bob Seger, you gots to have some kind of music that just soothes your soul. By coincidence, I just happen to be holding a copy of The Egg, the fourth album from Kansas City's Shiner. Sounds groovy, crank it! Ummm, wait a second here. This music isn't groovy at all. Well, it's got some neat grooves, but they're better for contemplating the shiny edges of razor blades than for driving around with the windows down. Time to look around for some info. What's that? This record came out last winter? You're kidding me! Anyway, it seems like Shiner and the good folks at DeSoto had the right time all picked out to release an album like this: late November 2001, in the height of seasonal affective disorders, anthrax paranoia, and gloomy, grey weather presiding over stark, bare trees. Not that you couldn't listen to The Egg in any given month it's just best suited to the time of year when the days are short and brutishly cold. The band doesn't waste any time letting you know where they're coming from, opening with the harsh, heavy salvo of \"The Truth About Cows,\" a ragged slough through the sludgy bog of postgrunge. It's the kind of stuff that major label A&R; has been cleaning up for mass consumption since 1994, only played with more authenticity and feeling than the schlockangst posterboys of Creed and 3 Doors Down could ever muster. Needless to say, this stuff sounds a lot better when it's dirty and raw, and Shiner's sixstring bloodletting beats the crap out of anything you'll hear on commercial FM these days. A large part of what makes Shiner's sound so visceral and engaging is the production work of exJawbox guitarist and Burning Airlines CEO J Robbins, who keeps things distinct, but exceptionally jagged. He lends the pitchblack doomrock of \"Spook the Herd\" and \"Stoner\" an austere, roughedged sound that drives them straight home with no detours. The crunch of the bass on the mathy and Jawboxesque \"Surgery\" alone makes the song an engaging listen, but the interplay of the chorused guitars on top uses it as a remarkably effective springboard for even more compelling guitar leads and interlocking rhythms. That blackeye bass tone is at the root of several of the album's most successful rockers, including the excellent title track, with its vaulting melody and frenetic drum pattern. The guitars play it clean most of the time, making it all the more effective when the distortion kicks in for a chorus or the coda. The end of \"Play Dead\" employs this dynamic particularly well, as sheets of distortion bring the song crashing to a close. Despite the band's efficiency with their hardrock bread and butter, they're at their most interesting when they deviate from it, as they do for the appropriately icy \"The Top of the World.\" You get the impression that this is what Shiner might sound like if Jonny Greenwood got his hands on them, as it basically sounds like a normal Shiner song collapsed into a bed of thumping rhythms, slowmotion music boxes and oozing guitar noise. The bass throbs and smears while vocalist Allen Epley lets his vocals slide dejectedly into the mix. More interesting, though, is \"The Simple Truth,\" which opens with fractured bass and drum rhythms under pulsing guitars and breaks down into a long, spooky coda full of vibes, synth washes and ghostly guitar accents. The instrumental \"Andalusia\" sends swelling synths into orbit around a stuttering rock axis, giving Shiner a chance to display some of their impressive chops without stepping into an allout wankfest. If there's a criticism you could level at Shiner, it's perhaps that despite the obvious attempts to diversify their sound, they still come off a little monochromatic their brand of precise, jagged rock can get a little numbing. Otherwise, Shiner are a pretty good bet if you're looking for some dark, rough postgrunge to accompany your allotted brooding time. Just don't come looking for sunshine. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to blow the table fan in my cubicle up my shirt sleeves. "}