{"label":" Thirsty Ear","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7007/homepage_large.46b20405.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Matthew Shipp","title":"Equilibrium","text":" Last year, pianist Matthew Shipp stomped across the college charts with the funked up NuBop, a jazz album augmented with beats and synths. He's not the only topdrawer jazzbo making serious use of electronica; more and more bands are mixing the acoustic with the electric and the improvised with the processed, from labelmates Spring Heel Jack to the glitchedup fusion of Norway's Jaga Jazzist. Shipp may not be the first or most adventurous, but he made a tasteful, logical album that still boasted fat bass and catchy riffs. His latest disc, Equilibrium, also uses the synth work and production of FLAM (Chris Flam). But instead of pushing the electronics and making a funkier, nastier successor to his hit, this new disc feels like nothing so much as the Modern Jazz Quartet. FLAM's additions are more subtle, and instead of a horn player, the rotating sideman this time is Khan Jamal, whose stately, ringing vibraphone perfectly complements Shipp's pensive lines. Shipp has explained that this is the \"synthesis\" of the directions he's been taking lately; freefloating, hot, straight, electrified: It's a chance to double back and get everything right. For Shipp, that means this may be his most carefully perfected album, which in this guy's case is not a dismissal. While Shipp can sprawl vivaciously next to the right partner like firebreathing tenor giant David S. Ware his own work often veers towards the cerebral and angular. His tunes sound like they're composed on graph paper, and although the titles have a scifi vibe, they don't conjure up the Funkadelic Mothership as much as 1950s Arthur C. Clarke: names like \"Nebula Theory\", \"Cohesion\" and \"World of Blue Glass\" imply scientists floating past abandoned spaceships and gigantic blocks of ice. The cool veneer can distract from the variety on this disc. The nine compositions each take a different mood and strategy, as the band jumps from the ballad \"World of Blue Glass\" to Jamal's fiery showcase \"Vamp to Vibe\", then to the beats and distorted horn samples that funk up \"The Root\". Yet they're as concise and blocked off as tanks at an aquarium: Each one makes its point in around five minutes, and none lasts a second too long. Shipp brings along the same rhythm section as his last few dates, with bassist William Parker and Gerald Cleaver on drums. Much has been written about Parker, one of Shipp's longestrunning and most compatible partners, but it's Cleaver who intrigues me more than ever before when he matches FLAM's beats with a mechanical crispness, or plays a subtle but erratic rhythm under the otherwise tranquil title track. Jamal is the newest performer to this group, and the most welcome surprise: A sorely underrecorded talent who has played since the 60s, he has worked with Billy Bang, Sunny Murray and the Ronald Shannon Jackson Decoding Society. On this date, he's an impeccable soloist for example, the straightbutshimmering blues of \"The Key\" and also a stellar improviser, whose vibes help color the abstract sections. Yet this record is defined by the production as much as the improvisation, and it's FLAM who turns out to be the most insidious component. You can hear what he's done to \"Nu Matrix\", as Jamal's sustained tones are stretched into an aurora borealis, while Shipp is dropped deep into the sea; the samples on \"The Root\" further echo his contributions to NuBop. But like Shipp, he's more restrained this time: In fact, his work can be so subtle that it plays tricks on you. Did he engineer the brief fadeouts on \"Vamp to Vibe\", or the start of \"The Root\", or is it just the band? Even on \"World of Blue Glass\", when a high note from the piano sparks a sudden bright sound, you almost wonder if FLAM added (or exaggerated) it. With this guy lurking around, no detail on the record seems accidental. With Equilibrium, Shipp has created a puzzle box, full of nuanced performances and cryptic details. It's not his most passionate work, but it's the closest to perfect, so precisely constructed that every note invites attention. With his next big step a month away his muchanticipated faceoff against the hiphop act AntiPop Consortium an album like Equilibrium could look careful, like a retreat. But why overshoot when you can hit your mark to three decimal places? "}