{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7030/homepage_large.9875ac7b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Sightings","title":"Sightings","text":" New York noiserock outfit Sightings play a little of the music you love to hate, and a lot of the noise you generally want to turn down. However, they also punch holes through the eardrums you know need some exercise and erode the elitist posture you've been meaning to shed for some time now. Sightings don't so much impress as oppress with their silo of riffs and yelping meltdowns. Nary a beat passes without the feedback from drums long since overdriven in the mix or frantic distortion of guitars having more in common with static electricity than even the harshest artpunk assault. Even at just 28 minutes, it's a lot to take in one sitting. Still, in some ways this is actually the forgotten sound of a bygone age. There was a time when this kind of racket passed muster in corners all around as the sound of the future. Think Lydia Lunch and DNA and you're getting there; think early Sonic Youth, Swans and even overachievers like MeltBanana or Sightings' labelmates Lightning Bolt and you're closer. It's not that mere abrasion and disgust is the object, but presumably some semblance of \"artful purpose\" and maybe even a pinch of ye olde \"rock\" for flavor. No Wave in color? Mathpunk that failed math? A whole lotta commotion? Mix them up and call it a debut. Even though singer/guitarist Mark Morgan often opts for the aged caterwaul of punk glory, some of the best stuff on the record happens when he plays it smooth. \"Wax Doors\" (at four minutes, practically an epic on this album) not only finds his voice in check, but locks into a groove that would make very, very early Can proud. The midtempo hacking by drummer John Lockie is wildly distorted, but unlike many songs here, there's space to breathe: little details like the offbeat guitar shrieks and the almost dublike bass resonance come through where they might not on noisier tracks like \"Made the Menu\" or spastic opener \"Two Thoughts\". At points, as on the almost painfully raucous \"45 on the Back\", it's difficult to distinguish who's doing what to which instrument, such is the general chaos. Unfortunately, where Sightings clean up in sonic overload, they fall short in dynamic contrast. In short, all explosions and no... well, almost anything else, make for a monolithic ride. Beyond Sightings, you might do yourself a favor and check out No New York, or any number of punky dadaists from Japan. It's entirely possible that Sightings may travel down a similar path to many of those musicians, and shape their sound into something as vital, or least less haphazard. Until then, hang on to your eardrums and be prepared for a lashing. Or not. "}