{"label":" Psycho-Path","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7031/homepage_large.efab9f63.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Sightings","title":"Michigan Haters","text":" I was dreaming of a chance encounter between Steven Stapleton and Ralph Ellison when the shrill ring of my telephone shot me off the couch, causing my laptop to fall to the floor in the process, the cursor blinking on a nearly blank screen. I picked up the phone still groggy from my nap, and slowly tried to understand the upset voice on the other end of the line. \"Hello? This is he. Yes, Michigan Haters is staying at my place, but only until I finish reviewing it. No, I'm not its legal guardian, but may I ask who's calling, please? Mrs. who? Well, Mrs. Indie Rock, could you please slow down and tell me what this is about?\" Apparently there had been an altercation at school: Mrs. Indie Rock's son, Bland, had been speaking to some girls at lunch, about his songs of angst and isolation, when Michigan Haters started screamed so loudly that it sent Bland crying from the cafeteria. He ran straight into the gym doors and wound up with black eye and a mild concussion. Mrs. Indie Rock is at the hospital, and she wants to know how I plan to handle the situation. She wants an apology. \"Ma'am, I'm truly sorry that this happened. I will speak with Michigan this evening, I assure you. Too violent? That's not really fair to say I don't think he's too violent at all.\" Certainly most of Michigan Haters especially the opener \"Bought a Grandfather Clock\" tend towards abrasion with its apparently nihilistic regard for instrumentation, but in the end this is the type of music that seems necessary as an outgrowth of other worthwhile genres, specifically Industrial music. This is how I would have imagined groups that followed in the footsteps of Throbbing Gristle and Coil to have sounded twenty years after the fact. The title track is especially exemplary of this trend, as metalagainstmetal racket plays against the sound of broken radio transistors, atop a background of sophisticated free form percussion and guitar work. \"Uhhuh, uhhuh. Uhhuh. Well, now, see I disagree on that point as well. He's not a bully.\" Basing an opinion on a casual listen, one could argue that it displays a very static and homogeneous sound, but if the Indie Rock family Bland, in particular would only take the time to listen with an openear, they might all might discover that there are a good deal of dynamics at work on Michigan Haters. \"Chili Dog\" slows the tempo to a relative halt, introducing a synthesized pingpong rhythm that interplays with established, rising percussion. A fuzzy bass accompanies both elements as the polyrhythmic piece unfolds between the upper and lower register, loads of guitar effects keeping you transfixed. Closing with a reverbladen guitar coda, \"Chili Dog\" helps put to rest any concerns that so harsh a band couldn't both build and wreck suspense. \"Meaningless noise?! Ma'am, I think you should take a moment to think this through, before you say anything you might regret.\" While it's true that most of Michigan Haters ends up buried in the red, the album doesn't suffer from what you'd ordinarily expect from \"bad production.\" Songs such as \"The Easy Answer\", \"Ihcic\", and \"I Feel Like A Porsche\" are meant to provoke a reaction with their imbalance, which goes handinhand with the conceptual beauty of contrasting highend guitar screeches with lowend bass and percussive distortion. The gluts of feedback act as a foil to the quieter moments culminating in the steeldrum like ending of \"Guilty of Wrecking\", which takes the album out on an atonal, yet striking note. \"Of course I'm sorry about poor little Bland Indie Rock, but have you considered that Michigan only lashed out because your child is so fucking BORING?\" I hung up the phone, knowing it was a lost cause. But ultimately, that's fine, and actually desirable: if rock music began as a rebellion against conservative parents, I'm happy to open my doors to the son of a bitch that punked its lame grandkid in the eye. Sightings' latest doesn't think twice before lashing out, and in rock and roll, that's nothing to apologize for. "}