{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7032/homepage_large.3ebb1cbb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Sightings","title":"Absolutes","text":" \"This Jello tastes how you look.\" Unfortunately, the next conscious thought I had after my slurred uttering of that phrase revolved around how my cousin's living room ceiling had too many tiles for me to count without getting sick in an adjacent fireplace. Mouth dry and stomach unsettled, my first drunken experience at the tender age of 14 had left me queasy, weak, and saddled with an inability to drink anything with the word \"orange\" in it for the next five years. Happily, aside from gaining valuable selfknowledge regarding the recuperative abilities of the teenage liver, the experience succeeded in teaching me the fear and respect due to one of mankind's most blinding furies the homemade concoction that is \"white lightning.\" Backwoods and brutish, moonshine is intended neither for the faintofheart nor those unwilling to engage in a modicum of experimentation, as it requires a certain amount of what my papa would call \"gumption\" in order to acclimate oneself to both the taste and effect of this pernicious beverage. Years later I would approach Sightings' album Absolutes with a similar sense of cautionary adventure, preparing myself for a beautiful assault that I would inevitably and repeatedly lose myself in, regardless of the consequences. Anchored in the Cartesianrelated premise that pain is the only thought process that will not betray one's reality, Absolutes begins with the organicbywayofsavageness static feedback of \"White Keys\". Creating an awkward and psychotic \"twist,\" the instrumentation of guitarist Mark Morgan and bassist Richard Hoffman slowly becomes blurred as the song progresses, the only constant amid the cacophony being Morgan's buried yelps of \"woohoo\" and \"ahah\" that eventually collide in a gigantic screech signaling the conclusion of the disc's preface. \"Infinity of Stops\" picks up directly thereafter, as the static pulse is refurbished with a clipping beat courtesy of drummer John Lockie and some squealing guitar manipulations that are similarly hacked to bits by the underlying bass line. This too inescapably falls victim to the approaching fallout of the bare percussion, a reluctant follower of the chaos that recently cleared the path for its creation and release. Given the pummeling offensive the band tends to rely on, it's unexpected that Sightings outfit multiple tracks with what sounds like the sophisticated gamelaninfluenced playing style of the Indonesian Isles. Perhaps as a move to admonish comments regarding the band as a second rate Boredoms or Pussy Galore or perhaps as sheer coincidence \"Bishops\" begins with a tangible and lasting beat, in itself a shock coming from the No New Yorkinfluenced band, that eventually waylays an example of such an Easterntinged rhythm into the high end of the mix. As Morgan continues to do his best John Lydon impression, uttering nonsensical phrases and monosyllabic sounds, the Javaneseesque melody eventually fades to echo only to reappear transformed in the following track, \"Canadian Money\". Syncopating from within the belly of a steel factory, the metal drums rule the track as a rapidfire attack of humming and pounding fight and win the battle to keep above the current of rising guitar fallouts and steady bassdrones. Further rallying against cries of homogeneity in a field of Rock 'N Roll where such accusations are rampant and unpleasantly expected, Sightings does not rest in presenting a bevy of tracks that display their knack for subtle interplay. Possibly an inverted political message, \"Right Side of the Hall\" is a D.C.hardcore tune at heart, with vocals channeled as an animal growl and a poprhythm section so simple and catchy, it would be a crime to bury it beneath all of that feedback if in the end it wasn't such a beautiful statement of artistic freedom to do so. \"E.E.\" is further evidence of the group's pop mastery, as the track exemplifies in fortyfive seconds what Man...or Astroman? have been attempting to accomplish for the past four years an Elvis Presley beachsong characteristically played by the heavy machinery of a highrise construction crew. The track exists in stark contrast to the veritable jam sessions of \"Anna Mae Wong\" and \"Reduction\", both of which surpass the sevenminute mark during the unraveling of their respective sound. In the former, the group uses the moments between starts and stops to develop a suspenseful tension that eventually becomes a pattern of instrumental callandresponse bringing to mind comparisons with the early improvisation of jazz and the blues. The latter track further builds upon this, but instead of a silent backdrop for the voices to argue against \"Reduction\" provides a sobering cadence, a beat that sputters out modestly in a manner befitting a composition that is showy only in its lack of pretense. A difficult album to take in, one should not disregard Absolutes based on a single listen, or even three or four. Like the outline diagrammed on the cover for the production of sweetcorn hooch, the rewards of the disc increase exponentially with repeated listens and time. Not the sound of something new, but merely the sound of something done right, Sightings has hit upon an extraordinary groove, one they will hopefully ride out to its pure and uncomplicated end. "}