{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7033/homepage_large.8ece32c5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Sightings","title":"Arrived in Gold","text":" Despite shredding at high volumes, New York City's Sightings remain a shadowy entity in comparison to critically lapdanced Big Apple \"noise\" acts like Black Dice and No Neck Blues Band. It's an unfortunate lapse, especially when considering the trio's newest tour de coarse, Arrived in Gold. One of 2004's most overlooked gems, the album's eight tracks channelsurf Pussy Galore's murky \"fuck you\" and DNA's angular, minimalist tribal scarification. It's Sightings fourth album, and it's a compositional breakthrough, upping antes from the scattershot conveyerbelt white noise of 2003's Absolutes, 2002's Michigan Haters, and the band's selftitled debut, sans appreciable intensity loss. Purists take note: The trio's piled their signature feedback drift/burst/smash/crash on top of addictive Liquid Liquidlike grooves. The magnetic harshness is sometimes reminiscent of the Chromatics, though with scrappier, more grating skree bursts and less dependency on straightup rock rhetoric. (Not to belabor, but it'd be safer to stick with the Pcat references, especially during Sugarshit Sharp's dimlit basement strangulation.) Recorded by Brooklyn magnate Samara Lubelski of The Tower Recordings/Hall of Fame, who also guests on violin, it's the band's most spicandspan sounding refuse to date. Opener \"One Out of Ten\" offers a nice bridge from Absolutes five minutes of plug/unplug patterns, jittery feedback, bass blurts, whispered vocals, and pulsations. It picks up steam incrementally, ultimately forming a lowlevel dervish. (And buried beneath this collapsing swarm of beeshells is a fragile, perfectly recorded, darningneedle piano.) \"Sugar Sediment\" is assembled over an unending, midtempo drum roll, smoky but pristine guitar notes, Mark Morgan's intermittent whispers, and unidentifiable drilling noises. The guitar (hearkening to Sun City Girls' Torch of the Mystics) and gently loping drums remain in strict holding pattern(s), but the feedback and buzz/smash floats freely, darting into areas not covered by the song's entropic core. The album's shiniest moment is \"Internal Compass\". Its skronk catchiness reinscribes a bit of Liars' clockwork drum rambling with a guitaraspercussion and eventual sixstring turbo launch reification. Through his tablesaw fretwork, Morgan snarls and growls and singtalks about whoknowswhat, though I kept hearing echoes of Mr. Albini and his kerosene. \"Switching To Judgement\" and \"Odds\" are both reminiscent of the serious postSY junkyard scifi of San Diego rockers, Kill Me Tomorrow. \"The Last Seed\" is a return to fragmentary striations; it features bleeps and blonks and the vocal effects of Fusetron honcho Chris Freeman, who calls the geometry of his slogging, \"vocussion.\" Closer \"Arrived in Gold, Arrived In Smoke,\" is a 10minute panorama, blending the collection's strands of freeform blazing/lapidary percussive undertow into a resilient draft of iron filings. By song's end, the movement is compressed into airy swirls of pitterpat percussion, Morgan's nearsilent throat clearing, and slowmo whirlpool action. The piece actually dissipates, implodes, and turns to a spray of nearsilent dust particles. It's an enjoyable arsenal, but in a scene that surprisingly lacks intriguing characters (I can't count the A.R.E Weapons dudes), another engaging Sightings detail is aforementioned guitar/vocal cynic, Mark Morgan. Asked about the possible connection to amply referenced NYC art rockers Pussy Galore via their Pussy Gold 5000 album, Morgan responded: \"Definitely no Pussy Galore action. We ain't down with band referencing. Man, I can't honestly even remember what the title means. Some lowrent surrealism, I guess.\" And queried weeks earlier about the history of NYC's influence on his output brought to mind by Kill Your Idols, a 2004 documentary by SA Crary that draws parallels and divergences between the original No New York no wave scene and the summer of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs circa 2002 Morgan said, \"It sounds like a load of shit to me. I get the impression that just because these bands are from the same city, there is some need to connect them even though 20 some years separates the postSeinfeld now from the teetering on bankruptcy then. Personally, the historical music continuum of NYC has just about zero effect on my thinking and playing music (in terms of like, dude, Mars rocked this town too). I rocked out more to Mars/DNA when I lived in Michigan than living in NYC.\" Complicating the charisma, Sightings have frequently been playing live with To Live and Shave in LA's Tom Smith, another certifiable whipsmart smartass and damnnear autistic performance maestro. (And in 2003, Sightings/Smith recorded an album, Gardens of War.) It might seem a bit daft to offer minute descriptions of the band's musicality only to pull back and shit out a twobit People Magazine character study, but today's wimpy, toopolitebecauseIwantarecorddeal version of the oldguard needs that sort of thing, and it ought to be recognized when it shows up to dinner. "}