{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7045/homepage_large.7812f576.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Silkworm","title":"Italian Platinum","text":" Tour the Art Institute on Silkworm's Chicago turf and use reverse chronology as the organizing principal of your walkthrough. Start in the contemporary art rooms and move through fourhundredplus years of Individual Masters, then a long ways back to the rooms showcasing ancient pieces. You can work up a pretty good bummer realizing how you're forced to herald the lone, rare Singular Geniuses, only to end up looking at treasures made by anonymous members of communities in which most people were artisans of some kind, capable of at least perfunctorily creative craftsmanship. If you're in the right pissy, generalizing mood, you can wonder if we slather over Geniuses out of a kind of guilt because they tap into something that we deepdown know shouldn't be so rare. Since most of us can barely figure out how to feed ourselves, we jump at the chance to applaud anyone with some leftover specialness. The whole mess is enough to make you tired of the accidental fascism of Geniuses filling supposedly organic 'leadership vacuums,' offering us chances to confirm our inferiority as we stand in the crowd at their concerts, or go to their movies, or read their books, viewing our consumption of them as sufficiently sophisticated and 'artistic' enough to justify the rest of our afternoon's being spent playing video games or bitching at our sexpals or staring at the ceiling or crying into our cans of Surge. Okay, that kneejerk theory is stoops: I know that 'the people' aren't going to rise up from quoting Aflac commercials to start an artistic revolution, and even if it did happen I bet I'd sleep through the best parts. Even backburner geniuses have consistent work ethics. Plus, those shangrila ancient artcultures probably didn't have access to convenient toilets of every personalityreflecting color. Alls I'm saying is that we gotta practice moderation and stop demanding that every album announce an Elvrum or Mangum or Yorke. As soon as you ease up on the need for a new disposable Jesus to mimic, you realize that there's a lot to be said for the refreshing geniuslessness of bands like Silkworm. Silkworm has no star to fantasize about sleeping with. No dominating image or attitude emerges to influence your hairstyle. The lyrics never leave you throttled by the image of them being read out of a DamnI'mClever Notebook #47. Instead of lifeaffirming passion, their albums, Italian Platinum gloriously included, offer subtle slapstick nihilism. Their website makes several references to how shocked they are that they still exist, and it dubs their own discography \"shit we have shat.\" Their concert journals humbly acknowledge that their slippery fitrock is often incidental music for drunks to fidget and commingle to. Maybe the Genius thing is a factor in sustainability; it's hard to listen to what Pavement and Silkworm were doing ten years ago and conclude that Silkworm would outlast the other. They get overlooked as oldguard almostweres, but an elite armada of folks with extensive CD budgets remain rightfully grateful for their unambitious clamor.Italian Platinum, whose packaging is so minimal that it's a waste of paper, is the band's best release since 1996's whoopass and splashy Firewater, though it just sounds like uninviting racket the first time you hear it, and it continues Firewater's preoccupation with alcohol. In other words, if Firewater is their OK Libations, this disc is their Kid AA slightly more penitent and therefore a great soundtrack for a punitive posthangover jog. Anyone who has ever dropped a bottle opener and then broken their finger trying to get it out from behind the fridge will appreciate \"Bourbon Beard\" and its sloshy, regretful counterparts. Coach Albini once again corroborates their convulsive assault, micing the guitars and vocals warmly, while the bass and drums maintain his standard warplanehangar dynamics. The sound is earthily underscored by all manner of piano, organ, clavinet, and synthy touches, as well as guest vocalist Kelly Hogan's counterintuitive heartthroat. Silkworm brings the chops, working odd pauses into their solos like J. Mascis undergoing physical therapy. Riffs abound, some Kirk Hammett fretfests go down, and whammy bars occasionally peer out to inspire airguitarists everywhere. The abundance of classic tropes (axe histrionics, anthemic refrain buildups, epic breakdowns, backup 'bops' and 'oohs') will leave you trying to gauge the band's sincerity. Are they spoofing what's been done to death, or nominating themselves as deserving candidates to give the oftresurrected rock horse a respectful, hellacious kick?Italian Platinum is a slowburner, an acquired taste, like, uh, Pawpaw's hard liquor. It grew on everyone I know who was in proximity to multiple spins, reducing several of them to murmuring choruses from hits like the opener \"(I Hope U) Don't Survive,\" the retro shoutalong \"The Old You,\" the nowave \"The Brain,\" the pollutionhappy hoedown \"Dirty Air,\" and the clunkilytitled but killer \"A Cockfight of Feelings,\" a mudpuddle reminder that the versechorusverse formula can be a lil' abstruse. Even the subdued, repetitive \"Moving,\" which is about moving in the unmetaphorical way that the GoGos' \"Vacation\" was about vacations, colonizes your tunelobe. If only radio switched to an allscab format, Silkworm's lurchandbounce could be credited for embracing the obvious throb of concise garageprog a style you could call, to quote one of this album's few bombs, \"worldproof.\" "}