{"label":" Sad Robot","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7064/homepage_large.ecf61e4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Sin Ropas","title":"Trickboxes on the Pony Line","text":" John Berger says that the relationship between what we know and what we see is never properly settled. That disconnect can be crushing, especially when it applies to something as inherently conceptual as sound: you know it's just a guitar, but all you see are shadows. Sin Ropas is the brainchild of Tim Hurley (former Red Red Meat bassist and occasional buttonpusher for Califone) and Chicago percussionist Danni Iosello. Theoretically, Trickboxes on the Pony Line, Sin Ropas' second fulllength, isn't strikingly different from what the eversplintering and coalescing Red Red Meat collective (see Califone, Loftus, Perishable Records) have been doing since the midtolate 1990s piling up gobs of drone, acoustic and electric guitars, uncredited machines, the occasional banjo, synths, noiseboxes, throbbing bass, sonorous percussion, unpredictable structures, largely conceptual lyrics, and choruses that may or may not arrive as planned. Genre transcendence suits Sin Ropas, though, and the dark internal cinema of these tracks eclipses, both texturally and atmospherically, nearly all of Hurley's previous work, including Sin Ropas' debut, the fulsome Three Cherries.Trickboxes is thick with doubt and hesitation. Topped by rough, indecipherable vocals and guided by a handful of shifting melodies and odd instrumental coups, it's hard to establish a stanch reference point for any of the album's eight cagey tracks; the perpetual puzzle is part of what makes this record so endlessly intriguing. Put it on and point yourself toward new, more dynamic modes of aural interpretation, shit that has far less to do with mechanically processing a series of notes than with establishing abstract, prelinguistic relationships with art. Get that the process, like the music, is awkward and uneasy. Tug your stereo outside, curl up in the grass, and chew on some crushed ice. There's gonna be poetry in the grasping. And it will be devastatingly good. \"Hands Aside\" opens with a sequence of neonatal ebow squeaks each high, sinewy whine promptly gives way to aching bass and heavily distorted electric guitar. Bulky and exhausted, the track packs a limp chorus (almost irrelevantly vague, with a halfrousing fauxholler) and a strained apathy reminiscent of Nirvana or presplits Beck. But Sin Ropas have a nearsupernatural instinct for punchinthegut timing, and there are a handful of perfectly positioned notes and chords that can switch your bloodflow with a single missed beat. The band refuses to break mood by taking a deliberate roll out of the song, and \"Butter on Cane\" slides in behind \"Hands\" unknowingly, as Hurley and Iosello slip unceremoniously into a Dirty Threeish violin melody, quietly scraping over a slow, rhythmic foundation of skittish snare drum and guitar dronegonemadmannoodling. Inspiration works the right way for Hurley and Iosello: bits of folk and blues are thread together with a logic that synthesizes (but never imitates) historically proven rock and roll birthrights, delivering something both intensely modern and blissfully weird. \"Floorboards\" is a tragic lurch, loaded down with achy, wavering blues guitar that, in the context of the song's \"dirty Christian\" lyrics and hazy production, sounds entirely newborn; \"Buried with the Footmen\" sees Hurley's voice and guitar clawing each other for attention, pipes finally overtaking the fuzz, Hurley's voice crawling into an onerous, devastating falsetto.Trickboxes on the Pony Line's abstract songmovies rely heavily on a series of unfixed, userprovided images pictures replace sounds, sensations supplant rationalizations, everything goes a little blurry. Push your fists into your eyes and let the lights come up: what you see on screen is yours. The rest is just guitar. "}