{"label":" Jester","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7073/homepage_large.4cbf8a18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Single Unit","title":"Family of Forces","text":" Norway's Are Mokkelbost plays the real dark stuff. He draws the strange, intricate, scary pictures, and I can only imagine that he dreams of dank pits and Lovecraftian orcs. His CPU is probably filling in a lot of the details, because most folks simply don't have the threshold for goth to withstand such hopelessly downward spiraling expression. And while I have no insight into this guy's personal life, it's probably a safe bet to say he's a got a shelfload of spell books and ghost stories with which to inspire a gross manner of midnight brainstorming sessions and shameful graveyard confessionals. But then again, that's pretty unlikely. It could just be that Mokkelbost (recording here as Single Unit) has a knack for nipping the sounds of the apocalypse in the bud. Certainly, he knows a thing or two about the technique, taking fairly straightahead industrial algorithms (Reznor may be a reference, but something tells me he doesn't want to fuck you like an animal so much as merely puncture your eardrums) and spicing up the mix/remix with your workaday thrash guitar and avantprogressive dynamics. And this is something he excels at. Whether or not I follow his steps into the black forest mostly depends on my mood, because it doesn't appear he's likely to change his tune anytime soon. Chiefly, if you want the real spooky stuff, Single Unit has you covered. Likewise, if you just want a little sour to spoil your sweet life, Mokkelbost can help you out. Otherwise, fall in line to get pummeled (and I suggest leaving the bathroom lights on if dark isn't your thing). Single Unit's debut fulllength, Family of Forces, begins with the very brief (and prophetic) \"Moving Caves, Enter Abstract.\" Distant sireny sounds close in like a spaceship landing, and soon enough, the aggroguitar pounces down center stage, like a bull in a maternity ward. The percussion matches the crunch strikeforstrike, and the only things that don't remind me of an electronic Zeni Geva are the tinkerbells entering at suitably inappropriate moments. \"5th Cumming\" (hopefully accidental pun notwithstanding), is a rather nice blueprint for most of the rest of the album. There's a pseudorepeating figure wherein Mokkelbost's big guitar lays down the distortion and drang while drum machines pound out death metal beats and red alarm synths play like the 80s were only ever supposed to be good for Mad Max and eminent nuclear war. Maybe paranoia is a good adjective for this album, because I keep having the feeling things are about to take a turn for the worse, as each layer of noise and programmed chaos gets tossed onto the heap. At just over five minutes, this is one of the longest tunes on the album, and it feels like a week. \"P, P&P; Intro\" and \"Passion Pirates and Parasites\" are something of a miniepic, and they do make use of dynamics and something like pacing (though it's brisk whenever possible). The former begins like an anthem for desensitization, with persistently discordant keyboard mashing, and what sounds like a manic church organ. This is juxtaposed with brief sections of calm, as if this is a tale of two different worlds (and much of this album could be described as cinematic, even if future shock and gore is the theatre du jour). The latter tune feels very much like a hard prog tune, but played on the beloved sequencers and scarred Strat rather than with a bunch of exconservatory subversives named Jarno and Helmut. Again, there's a feel here of doom and heavy combat, and the actual playing is never less than inhumanly precise, so if you need a breather (or even just a volume adjustment), please feel free. The minority mode on Family of Forces is carnivalesque, and I'm of course not referring to happy clowns and cotton candy. Houses of mirrors are more likely the domains of tunes like \"Fluktrute\" and \"Orgel Alene,\" both of which emphasize devilish whimsy over sheer sonic bombardment. Some of this might conceivably be mistaken for a recent Danny Elfman soundtrack, if only he hung out with Darren Aronofsky more than Tim Burton. Postmodern creaking door music? I won't go that far. Almost inevitably, this kind of record makes me a tad numb after a while. Without creeping into Mokkelbost's psyche, I couldn't tell you if that was the plan all along, though with as much detail as went into the rhythm tracks alone, I doubt it. The only downfall with making music for the end of civilization is that you run the risk of alienating your relatively civil listeners. Don't get me wrong I'm all for a good digital maelstrom. But if I take a short intermission, please understand. "}