{"label":" Mantra / Beggars Banquet","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7083/homepage_large.084aa291.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Beatty & Garrett","artist":"Six by Seven","title":"The Closer You Get","text":" There's a thin line between riveting and boring. Generally speaking, the boredom factor increases proportionately as a song lengthens. There are some notable exceptions to this rule, but it's only the truly gifted band that can pull off an epic without sounding presumptuous or sedated. As Six by Seven proved on their last outing, the somnolent The Things We Make, they're definitely not one of those bands. Wisely, on The Closer You Get, Six by Seven shun any epic aspirations, opting instead to streamline their sound. Gone are the interminable, lazy guitar noodling of \"European Me.\" Petals are pressed to the floor. Guitars mimic helicopters. Drums resemble a bumpy subway ride. And frontman Chris Olley sounds positively rabid beneath the raging volume. No longer finding solace in drawnout detachment, Six by Seven are now focused and agitated. The results are immediate, and, at the very least, demand to be heard. From the explosive opening monolith, \"Eat Junk Become Junk,\" Six by Seven bristle with an intensity that would have been unthinkable on their previous LP. \"Sawn Off Metallica Tshirt\" mines a cutthroat fearlessness, the chainsaw guitars and thumping bassline threatening to erupt at any moment. Even when the lyrics disappear altogether or become indecipherable under the layers of noise, as on \"Another Love Song,\" the band exudes an unmistakable menace. This newfound attitude doesn't always serve them well, though. The melodic aspirations of \"Don't Wanna Stop\" and \"Slab Square\" are swept away in a tuneless, guitar maelstrom surprising when considering they're two of only four tracks on The Closer We Get produced by the untouchable John Leckie. Strangely, other tracks simply fail to reach their potential for lack of production. Relying on light guitar plucking and a touch of feedback, \"England and a Broken Radio\" is so slight it leaves you wishing Six by Seven had parked their social commentary at the door. All told, The Closer You Get, winds up with more bluster than substance. These guys have the roar, now they just need to temper the assault and give the melodies some breathing room. Too often they allow the noise to compensate for underdeveloped material. However, given their rapid progress and attitude change, this misstep is both understandable and forgivable. For the time being, their remarkable stylistic transition is enough for us to keep listening. "}