{"label":" Holy Mountain","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7087/homepage_large.b21fc88c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Six Organs of Admittance","title":"Dark Noontide","text":" The best psychedelic music doesn't require the aid of pharmaceuticals. The 13th Floor Elevators' first album, Love's Forever Changes, Pink Floyd's Piper at the Gates of Dawn, and other such mindexpanding classics can get the job done on their own. They don't need much outside help in the form of drugs, or anything else for that matter. The way I see it, if an album needs drugs to make it enjoyable or emotionally moving, then by definition it's lacking something. I don't think I'm being prudish when I say, at its best, psychedelic music should be a morethanadequate substitute for drugs. If psychedelic music is simply music to take drugs to, then the latest Creed album is the most psychedelic album ever: it makes me want to take drugs all of them, as quickly as possible. While nowhere near as accomplished as the above mentioned albums (and not really sounding much like them, either), this second LP from a Northern Californian treesitting, psychedelic ewokcumJohnFaheydisciple named Ben Chasny and his (essentially) one man acoustic drone/raga outfit Six Organs of Admittance certainly needs no lysergic crutch, despite its outward trappings which might suggest otherwise.Dark Noontide is basically a tribalpsych album with acoustic guitar serving as the campfire around which flutes, recorders, tablas, bells, chimes, and sundry other instruments dance. It's not a playful, frolicking dance; it has a somber and contemplative tone, almost funereal at times. Three out of the eight songs also feature Chasny's singing, which is somewhat hard to pin down. Sometimes it sounds like a less operatic Tim Buckley (maybe hard to imagine), a gravelvoiced Roger McGuinn, or maybe Skip Spence. Still, it's nicely distinctive and perfectly matched to the musical accompaniment. The album opens with the solemn blues of \"Spirits Abandoned,\" with Chasny singing the refrain, \"I know what you've done/ What you've become,\" with an almost zenlike detachment, as if the subject of the song is just too overwhelming to be dealt with headon. \"This Hand\" mixes pseudoreligious lyrics with the best use of a buzzing guitar string since Neil Young's \"Ambulance Blues,\" while the album ends with a comparatively rockish tune called \"A Thousand Birds.\" Propelled by a driving acoustic guitar riff, the song explodes into a distorted, spastic electric guitar freakout, ending the album in unexpected fashion, given the loose, meditative feel of what preceded it. Between these more \"songoriented\" pieces, there are a couple of short solo acoustic numbers that many Fahey fans would appreciate, along with some other noise/drone improv pieces similar to the ones Tower Recordings have dedicated themselves to releasing. On their own, these tracks aren't anything spectacular. But as part of Dark Noontide's expansive whole, they have the ability to transport you to another world like few modernday psychedelic recordings can. A kaleidoscopic, hallucinatory experience, all without the aid of drugs. Put that in your pipe and smoke it. "}