{"label":" Holy Mountain","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7088/homepage_large.d7625574.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Six Organs of Admittance","title":"Compathia","text":" When I was in high school, they forced us to read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. I thought the book was mostly a manual for babyboomer selfimportance, but one passage about how the author thought his friend was refusing to accept technology because it wasn't cool stuck with me. There is a whole culture of people out there who don't seem to exist on the same plane as the rest of us. I don't really believe these people are getting into holistic medicine and going back to the country because they think it's \"cool,\" but there is certainly something they're tapping into (consciously or not), in direct opposition to the information overloaded M.O. we're supposed to be all about. There are artists in music, like Six Organs of Admittance, Charalambides, and Richard Youngs, who reflect this mindstate. While they've hardly cracked the mainstream, they have all participated in some strange continuum of spacefolk that goes back some 40 years probably not coincidentally when the 60s counterculture really got going. In particular, Ben Chasny's Six Organs project is the statement of someone in tune with the history of underground folk and psychedelic music, and only too willing to ignore the conventions of his own time to bring them further back into the collective experience, as he did so well on last year's Dark Noontide. And I guess that's my complaint with Six Organs' latest, Compathia: rather than expand on the strange, rustic eccentricity of Dark Noontide, Chasny has opted to emphasize his singer/songwriter tendencies. Not that Compathia is a pop record, but its roots are much nearer here to early Marc Bolan or even Donovan. The melodies don't necessarily guide a narrative as drift through loose arrangements (which usually consist only of multiple acoustic guitars), but there is significance in the notion that those melodies are the heart of this music. In many ways, Chasny is traveling down a similar path to Devendra Banhart, except that Banhart is able to make his songs sound as bizarre and unique as most other peoples' freakouts. The music of this record is hardly so out there, and that wouldn't be so much a criticism if Chasny's songs had a bit more meat to them. \"Only the Sun Knows\" encapsulates the sound of Compathia, illuminating the simplistic, elongated melodic phrasing Chasny prefers, as well as revealing the nearly omnipresent drone still very close to his music. It isn't likely his modest tune you'll remember, though it's Comets on Fire multiinstrumentalist Ethan Miller's searing, completely onthemark guitar solo. What I'd always hoped Six Organs would deliver was a kind of apocalyptic, epicstrength acidfolk, and when Miller blasts off and Chasny injects the odd layer of wheezing electronic mush, my hope is realized. Of course, it's a far cry from most of the lowkey balladry of the rest of the album, and when the final verse appears, this fiery, chaotic vision suddenly seems distant. More typical for the album are songs like \"Close to the Sky\", \"Run!\" and the instrumental title track. These are short, sweet examples of folk informed by psychedelic music (and lifestyle), but still grounded enough to work in nonchemically enhanced states. The first tune in particular even approaches the almostcatchy acoustic pop of the Elephant 6 bands, if they'd been more in love with Donovan than The Beatles. The tambourine and handclaps (?!!) tighten up his arrangement, but for some reason, it seems strange to hear a Six Organs' song with something like a chorus. Chasny's vocals are much more out in front on Compathia, and but for a slight warble and a slighter detour into spaceguitar at the end \"Close to the Sky\" could very much pass for straightforward folkpop. Not everything is so cut and dry: \"Somewhere Between\" (perfect title) begins as a dark, calmbeforethestorm lament but gradually transforms into Easterntinged repeated mantra, featuring droned guitars and all manner of jingling percussion. It's a very cool sound, and one that I wish Six Organs would explore more in the future. Ultimately, Compathia is an accomplished, heartfelt record, if not necessarily the one to define Chasny's artistic voice. I get the feeling he's either taking it easy or making a transition to an altogether smoother plane; in either case, an appreciation for pastoral, lightly burnt acoustic pop is what you really need to enjoy his stuff. "}