{"label":" Jetset","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7100/homepage_large.cc7ff3f4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Sixteen Horsepower","title":"Folklore","text":" So a couple of years ago, I was out of the city, visiting my parents in rural Eastern Connecticut. I was driving home at night, the headlights of my Camry illuminating parts of trees and branches on the sides of the road, but also leaving vast, inky swathes of shadow in which I could see nothing. It was there that I realized that, despite all the statistics and such, I felt safer in densely developed areas like my Boston neighborhood than I did in the woods. In the city, there were people everywhere if something terrible happened, someone was likely to see. Out here, though, there was uncertainty. You couldn't see what was out in those woods, and if anything happened to you, it could conceivably be days before anyone found you. And mind you, this was in Connecticut, which doesn't exactly have the deepest swathes of wilderness in the Union. 16 Horsepower's David Eugene Edwards seems to understand this mentality deeply and taps into it quite like no other songwriter I've heard. His music inhabits the darkest corners of the American backwoods, places where shots from the Civil War and the Western frontier still echo, where it's miles to help in any direction. The haunted, creaky music on Folklore, his fifth album with this band, calls out from the traditions of Appalachian and Scottish folk, but with a bizarre, hardtopin sound that suggests goth country, as opposed to Southern Gothic. Lyrically, it's practically a distillation of Harry Smith's Anthology of American Folk Music, with themes running from the persecution of sinners by God and demons, to murder on unimproved roads, to country paranoia. It's not a bad fit with the imagery of the Civil War documentary PBS has been rerunning this week. There's a reason for this four of the ten songs are covers of traditional tunes that likely date back that far. Sixteen Horsepower also try their hand at the Carter Family's \"Single Girl\", which is featured on the third volume of Smith's anthology. It's one of the few moments on Folklore where the band picks themselves up out of the dirgy murk. It has them galloping along on a jaunty banjodriven carriage, very nearly approximating that strange, almostintunebutnotquite singing that colored the original Carter Family recordings. Otherwise, Folklore's a rather dour affair, reaching its most extreme depths on the song that immediately follows \"Single Girl\", the aptly titled \"Beyond the Pale\". Electric piano, brushed drums and vibraphone create a background wasteland, through which Edwards' weary voice travels, harassed by random intonations from an acoustic guitar. \"Beyond the pale/ We keep down our voices/ For that is our way/ Lost in the backwoods/ You awoke and found me there/ Setting the woods on fire,\" sings Edwards as though struggling to breathe. The four traditional offerings come mostly from the AngloAmerican folk canon, though \"La Robe a Parasol\" is a freaky Cajun waltz. The two best come in succession: a droning, desolate take on \"Horse Head Fiddle\" that sounds nearly medieval with its backing drone and moaning vocals, and a thrilling version of Nina Simone's \"Sinnerman\". The band begins the latter slowly with acoustic guitar and piano, gradually building rhythmic steam until finally breaking into a full stomp with driving drums and banjo.. Taken as a whole, Folklore doesn't represent so much a new direction for Sixteen Horsepower so much as a narrowing of focus to concentrate on their most doomladen tendencies. The album crawls from the speakers like a stabbing victim and gives up a great moan; it's a difficult listen, but the rewards are great see the subversively rhythmic backing of \"Blessed Persistence\" and the band's lush version of Hank Williams' \"Alone and Forsaken\". Another album like this might prove too much, but these ten songs are just about right. "}