{"label":" Full Cycle","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7106/homepage_large.8e2af734.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Roni Size","title":"Touching Down","text":" God, I don't even know where to begin. And it's not even that there's a lot to talk about, because there isn't: Roni Size's new album is vapid, boring and uniform. He's ditched Reprazent and all of his other various hangerson and decided to go solo, just him, his mixing board and some sequencers, and cranked out a drum 'n' bass album, just in time for the drum 'n' bass revolution that ended half a decade ago. \"Oh, be nice,\" you say. To which I say, \"No.\" Size used to make interesting music, or at least music you could sit in your house and listen to without heavy sedatives. New Forms, anyone? That's a cool record. Absent sweaty masses grinding and gyrating on a dancefloor and freaky light shows, there's no substance to Touching Down; parts of it are even hard to dance to, and there's never any intellectual injection to compensate for the lack of kinetic energy. The album actually starts off almost promisingly with \"Sound Advice\", where staticky radio surfing and muffled vocal interjections course over a thin, programmed beat. This quickly moves into a second section with a fake harp and swooshy background, conjuring phrases like, \"You are getting sleepy,\" and, \"Next time, on Nova.\" Still, the bass is live played by Richie Glover and the beat is solid, instilling some hope for an interesting ride. Then, out of nowhere, Size calls to you: \"You are all very welcome to join me for the next hour of killer drums and bass. It is official: we are now in the mix.\" Thanks, Roni, but I'm way ahead of you. Save it for the DVD. From that point forward, Size dishes up the cheese like there's no fucking tomorrow (and in a world where a record like this gets international distribution, there might as well not be) with, as promised, a full hour of numbing breakbeats and something I guess you could call bass, even if it's never very deep each track is indistinguishable from the next. He's got that \"bass\" noise that goes \"bweh bweh bweh,\" the one that goes \"wonk wonk wonk,\" and a few others the Chemical Brothers bled dry in '98, along with a precious few characterless synth presets. Texturally, it's barely half a cut above the generic Best of Bass compilations they can't give away at Circuit City. The beats are pushed way up front for the most part, and the fundamental backbeat changes maybe two, three times over the whole course of the album. Twittering synth sounds and bubbly squiggles crop up around the edges for window dressing, but there's never a genuine melodic contour that might imply some direction. It's kind of funny, in that I've come full circle with Roni Size at this point. My first exposure to him came during college, when I found his Breakbeat Era project's Ultra Obscene album discarded on the mailroom floor. Like any good scavenger, I scooped it up and gave it a listen, and found it so interesting that I didn't listen to it again for three years, until I had to write this review and became curious. It still does nothing for me. In between, I gained a good deal of respect for a lot of his other material (specifically New Forms and his tracks on Full Cycle's 1995 comp Music Box), but Touching Down just doesn't cut it. Curiously, Size ends the album by thanking DJs for \"all their support,\" almost as if it were a gesture of farewell. I won't speculate on the future of his career, but Mr. Size certainly won't be getting any thanks from me until he a) makes another good album, or b) hands me an Advil. In the meantime, if you want to hear Touching Down, just check the mailroom floor of your local college. I'm sure it'll turn up eventually. "}