{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7108/homepage_large.a4295a56.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Skeleton Key","title":"Obtainium","text":" I don't even know where to begin talking about how worthless the Grammy awards are. Aside from basically being a poster event for the RIAA and its associated labels to puff up their big, fat egos, the awards are invalidated for me simply by the fact that they ignore nearly every album released in a given year i.e. those released on independent labels. Figure in the ridiculously overthetop musical performances (Britney Spears dancing with a robot army, anyone?) and you've got yourself a pretty sorry event, punctuated only by the occasional bright spot, like those kids a couple years back who could play jazz really, really well. But the talent involved doesn't really matter when you consider the exclusive nature of the award. In my readings over the years, I've come across a lot of little interesting facts about the Grammys, but the ones that always get me are the curveballs the industry occasionally throws. And I can't recall a bigger curveball than the nomination of Skeleton Key's 1997 Capitol Records debut, Fantastic Spikes Through Balloon. Clarification is in order: Skeleton Key were actually nominated in the best artwork category, and they deserved it. The artwork for that record, with its punch card display of band photos and ephemera, is unique and very well executed. But still, for an album like Fantastic Spikes to even be mentioned at a ceremony like that was odd. You know the drill for bands like Skeleton Key: release a great debut EP on a tiny indie, get 'discovered' by major label A&R;, record an equally excellent debut album, receive no promotional push, then politely fall by the wayside. It's hard to believe it's been five years since Skeleton Key first fell through the cracks. The band initially burned out after two years of touring, trading percussionist Steve Calhoon and multiinstrumentalist Rick Lee to upstart Enon and sinking into dormancy. Calhoon has since departed the fold entirely, but Lee is maintaining dual citizenship in both bands, and thankfully, he's brought back to Skeleton Key his distinctive foundobject percussive assault. Singer/bassist Eric Sanko and guitarist Chris Maxwell are still around, and Calhoon has been replaced by skinsman Colin Brooks. And to cap off their return, the band has moved to Mike Patton's Ipecac label, thus removing themselves from the Grammy equation entirely. All the better, then. The result of all this recalibrating and time off isn't exactly a work of undisputed genius, but it's a better return than could be expected from a band everyone thought long dead up until now. Obtainium's primary flaw is that it lacks some of the persuasive energy that shoved Fantastic Spikes straight down your throat. The visceral power of a song like \"Watch the Fat Man Swing\" or \"Vomit Ascot\" is just nowhere to be found here, which could likely be blamed on the somewhat flat production work of a mysterious entity called the Dubious Brothers. As for the band, they do what they can in their overquantized environment, and the results are generally good, from the swaying junk funk of opener \"Sawdust\" to the Tom Waitsish broken carnival ride of \"Roost in Peace.\" The quartet seems to be making a conscious attempt to vary their sound, resulting in an eclectic yet oddly (and again due to the production) monochromatic album. \"Sawdust\" leads the pack, stringing an intermittent bassline out on a wire of funky guitar, cutting the whole mix through with divebombing synth noises. Sanko does his best not to sound like J Robbins, but the vocal similarity can be uncanny sometimes. \"One Way, My Way\" is one of a few songs that feels a little constrained by rhyme scheme, with lines like, \"One way/ My way/ What I Say goes/ My opinion is fact/ And if you react/ Then it's gonna' come to blows.\" The song grooves so idiosyncratically around it, though, that such minor complaints fade easily from the mind. The addition of several slower songs to the fray feels like a genuine step forward for the band, as they have a facility for brooding, molasses tunes like \"Candy,\" which manages to be both slow and jittery. Noises squirm at all levels of the mix, while deliberate, steady guitar and bass parts drone on. Meanwhile, when the drums enter, they're placed in such a way that it feels like everything else is supporting them, when the opposite is actually true. Lee has clearly brought back a few tricks from the Enon bag, and he uses them to great effect. The album closes with \"Say Goodnight,\" an understated lullaby haunted by a rusty music box and what could be electric cello or bowed bass that sounds like a song crumpled to the ground from exhaustion. It's the perfect antecedent to careening rockers like \"King Know It All\" and \"Panic Bullets,\" and also a perfect ending for the album, as it's one of the few moments that doesn't feel just a little stifled by the production. If they can mange to maintain focus and release another album soon, it's my hope that Skeleton Key will work to harness the dementia and rawness so inherent in their sound and really run with it. For now, Obtainium is a certainly an ample offering, if a little too tame. "}