{"label":" Train Wreck","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7113/homepage_large.6e2e99a3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Skiptrace","title":"Skiptrace EP","text":" I listen to a lot of music, okay? Most of my waking hours are filled with it. Hell, a lot of the time I spend in deep sleep is apparently filled with it too. I can't tell you how many times I've woken up with some song endlessly looping in my brain that has absolutely no business being there Rockwell's \"Somebody's Watching Me,\" for instance, or the theme song to Blossom. Alas, there is a boring sameness to a lot of music, especially rock and pop, but sometimes you feel completely jaded, like nothing could surprise you, like if the equivalent of the Beatles or Faust came out today, you'd be unable or unwilling to realize it. I know I needed some quiet time away from music to refresh my ears when I find myself thinking, \"Hey, that Slayer song kind of sounds like Gloria Gaynor.\" So what does this have to do with Skiptrace? Well, if you think I'm gonna say this EP is refreshing, that it's some kind of shrill clarion call to wake us overloaded music snobs from our deep slumber, you're wrong. You obviously missed the above rating, or you need to reacquaint yourself with the key to your right. This sixsong EP's only real accomplishment is how completely forgettable it is. It doesn't matter how much interchangeable music has been soundtracking my days lately, this sucker takes the cake for utter intangibility. I listened to this EP quite a few times through, but it's impossible to say how many exactly. I put it on repeat, and by the time it's played six or seven times through, nothing not one single lyric or melody has attached itself to me. It's like a collection of songs made out of massless neutrino particles from the sun, passing through me without a trace. Semisonic's moronic, onceinescapable \"Closing Time\" comes to mind when Skiptrace singer Scott Sellwood steps up to the mic, and the band has obviously paid some attention when listening to Big Star, Todd Rundgren, Matthew Sweet and Jellyfish. Not that I'd call them a pure power pop band exactly they have a little indie rock crud on them, tarnishing the gleam. But it's not enough to give them much of a distinctive sound. Two of the songs were produced by Bill Janovitz from Buffalo Tom. The band apparently sent him a demo and he liked it so much he asked them out to Fort Apache in Cambridge, MA to record. It's hard to imagine what it was that attracted him to this particular band out of the faceless throng. Maybe he had his eyes on his pocketbook (aren't Buffalo Tom doing a Bsides retrospective or somesuch?) because these songs seem custommade for use in some subliminal ad campaign. Maybe when that happens I'll wake up with, say, this EP's \"Open Hands\" stuck in my head. Until then, it's difficult to remember much about it when I'm awake. "}