{"label":" No Karma","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7120/homepage_large.604491d2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Slackjaw","title":"Darkest Hour","text":" When I received Slackjaw's Darkest Hour, my first reaction was to groan and construct a lengthy laundry list of superficial complaints the band name (ugh), the typeface (awful), the cover art (goofy, maudlin photography), the photos of androgynous pinkhaired teenagers in the liner notes (make it stop), the song titles (for the love of god, \"Your Beauty, The Sunrise?!\"), and the profound sense of foreboding the preceding qualities ensured. Superficial issues aside: Slackjaw's Darkest Hour may be the best example of a 5.0 record I've ever heard. Its physical attributes are more or less average nine songs in 46 minutes, most of which average around the fiveminute mark (excepting one short song and one long song). The sound falls squarely between nouveau emo and Radioheadinspired album rock. The musicians are competent, the songwriting is occasionally inspired and occasionally abysmal, but largely pleasant, pedestrian, and innocuous. The lyrics mostly rhyme, contain a requisite amount of postmodern malaise, and sometimes employ pretty poetic affectation. Most of the songs seem to be about failing relationships and the sort of existential angst associated with mornings after and drinking alone. And you could say: \"Well, you could say the same thing about a lot of bands almost every band, in fact.\" Which would prove my point. That, right there, is the heart of the 5.0. Average. And there's nothing inherently wrong with average. It's a glass halffull or halfempty scenario. For the case of halffull: \"The First Thing to Go,\" the album's opener, is lush and cinematic, building on a pleasant sort of whitenoised soundscape. Singer Eric Schopmeyer's hushed vocal technique provides a nice complement to the music itself. It evokes the right sort of pretty, yet sad tone that dominates the rest of the album. For a threesome, Slackjaw has a relatively full sound, assisted in part by a wide variety of instrumentation. And I'll give them this: it's hard to integrate chimes without sounding ridiculous. They pull it off well. Another bonus: songs flow almost seamlessly into one another. This works particularly well with the first two tracks: \"The First Thing to Go\" and \"Unscathed,\" the latter switching gears so dramatically halfway through that I thought they'd fucked up the tracklist. (Actually, the jury is still out on whether this is clever or just irritating). The instrumentation makes a huge difference, too. On \"White Noise,\" jazz piano plays counterpoint to dissonant bursts of guitar. It's a cunning trick of composition which represents what these guys do exceptionally well. Suffice to say, these guys have a lot of potential. On the halfempty tip: certain moments on Darkest Hour (most notably the overblown \"One Too Many Mornings\") are indeed atmospheric, but in that breakupsceneinateenmovie sort of way. They sound very typical, and can bear a marked resemblance to the emotive rock hits featured on the commercial alternative stations those ones by the bands whose names you never remember which is aided by singer Eric Schopmeyer's theatrical vocal style. His tenor moans recall collegerock crooners and secondrate Jeff Buckley impersonators, and the breathy, whispered filler is distractingly artificial. This combination evokes the inevitable worldweary tone favored by four out of five sensitive teenagers with blackframed glasses. It would be something special if it hadn't been done before. But it has. And it isn't. Significant orchestral arrangements can occasionally bolster an otherwise simplistic sound, but I'm not entirely sure Slackjaw is ready for a grand opus. The inclusion of unusual instrumentation can also smack of selfimportance, and middling songwriter skills. Part of me that wishes someone hadn't complied with the probable studio command to \"make it bigger.\" There are very few artists in the world that can pull off fulltilt album rock pretension. For all I know, Slackjaw may arise as saviors of rock and roll after all, stranger things have happened but Darkest Hour isn't going to get them there. And one further note: wearing your influences on your sleeve only works if you deviate from the formula. With the possible exception of \"White Noise,\" every song on here sounds like a tribute to another band. From Radiohead on \"The First Thing to Go\" to American Analog Set on \"All That Remains\" (dead ringer). That Slackjaw perform with some agility is of secondary concern, because ultimately it's sort of boring. "}