{"label":" Bardot","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7193/homepage_large.9263f7e0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Snowglobe","title":"Our Land Brains","text":" In July of 2002, Bardot Records had the collective balls to suggest that Snowglobe, a Memphis quartet no one outside of Tennessee had ever heard of, recently recorded the \"pop album of the year.\" The suggestion ran as a banner ad atop the Pitchfork front page, and was disguised in question format (i.e. \"Snowglobe: Pop album of the year?\"). If you're at all like this reviewer, you probably reacted to this blatant hypeevangelism with a curt, cynical hipster retort something along the lines of \"Pop Album of the Year? Try 'Poop Album of the Year.'\" Then you and your friends all laughed together in a warm spirit of bitter, selfrighteous erudition. Hipsters, however, are notorious for reacting before thinking, especially to suggestions that something is actually good. So if you were one of those doubting this wintery 'Globe, then prepare to be shamed. On second thought, shame is too strong a word. That is, unless by doubting Snowglobe you also got caught masturbating (unlikely). Prepare instead to be lightly corrected; your bitter cynicism is about to be exposed as false. By who? By Snowglobe, of course. And by me, who is writing about this wonderful quartet. Our Land Brains may not be the pop album of the year, and Snowglobe is definitely not the bandname of the year, but this disc sure is a dandy. Whenever a band starts an album with three nearperfect pop songs, it's usually a good thing (that is, unless it only gets worse from there on out, but we'll tackle that issue later). Our Land Brains opens with \"Waves Rolling,\" a 60s throwback reminiscent of the Byrds and the Elephant 6 posse. Don't think Beatles, though; their influence is present, but Snowglobe draw from a wider pool of resources, most of which are American. The second number, \"Beautiful,\" opens with a simple, playful fivechord piano progression. Other pianos dot in and out of the composition, some pounding lower bass notes, others scampering down scales at the upper registers. Percussion is composed of sleigh bells, tambourine, xylophone and kettle drums. Then comes the voice: ladies and gentlemen, please say hello to Brian Wilson and the Beach Boys. I mean that in the least derogatory way possible; somehow, vocalist Brad Postlethwaite and his comrades in harmony manage to bottle up a candysweet Beach Boys melody, replete with letterperfect vocal reproduction and reconstitute it here for your listening pleasure. Postlethwaite shares songwriting and leadvocal duties with Tim Regan, who gets his first chance to display his wares on \"Dreamworks,\" the album's third actual song. Regan's voice tends more towards a Pete Townsend timbre, and his songwriting takes on a dramatic, serious mood. Prominent instrumentation on the track include a strong, uptempo minorkey bassline, a mournful piano vamp and horns, and a wahwah'd guitar that's afforded its own 35 second solo. The lyrics are nicely poetic: \"Slip away from all you've known/ Swim out in the distance/ Catch a ride on the furthest star/ Colors bleed into your eyes, as you shoot through the distant skies of heaven.\" The melody, ascending into the upper registers for the chorus, punctuates the emotion in the lyrics. After \"Dreamworks\" is through, however, the disc begins a descent back into the land of the pop mortals. Most of the rest of the album is well aboveaverage, like \"Adrenaline Mother,\" which falls somewhere between the Moody Blues and \"Norwegian Wood,\" and \"Muse,\" a singalongwithBelleandSebastianstyle melody. But some tracks plain fall flat, like \"Big City Lights,\" a sevenminute tune with a few too many nonsensical twists and turns, and \"Playground,\" where Postlethwaite's nasal delivery is epitomized, and his sense of melody is effectively disguised as a sense of the boring and clichéd. \"Pop Album of the Year?\" It's possible. Would have been even more possible had it been shorter (there are 16 tracks on this sucka). Even if it's not, though, I wouldn't go so far as to call Bardot Records a brood of vipers. Their lies will have been white ones helpful ones, even, lies that led the deceived to some fricking sweetass music with a few superb songs and massive loads of promise. Bardot Records, you bastard liars, we thank you. "}