{"label":" Paper Cup / Black and White","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7222/homepage_large.3252bea2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Nickey","artist":"Songs: Ohia","title":"Mi Sei Apparso Come un Fantasma","text":" Live albums are pretty much indefensible. Blatantly fanmilking and timestalling, they rarely hold more than a passing charm. But I'm often a sucker for them all the same a connoisseur, you might even say. They have an aesthetic all their own, I mean, if you want to call it that, what with their nearobligatory guitar and drum solos, singalongs, and betweensong banter. From B.B. King's Live at Cook County Jail and James Brown's Live at the Apollo to 70s rock classics like Frampton Comes Alive and Rush's A Show of Hands (a cassette of which rests in a shoebox under my bed at this very moment), live albums can offer a glimpse into the true heart of a band or artist. Of course, like some of the abovementioned albums above, it might not be a pretty sight. The truth can be ugly. As someone who owns every Songs: Ohia release and who has attended about a dozen of the band's live shows, it's safe to say I'm already a certified fan, which makes me the perfect chump for a live disc. But if I imagine for a moment that I've never heard Songs: Ohia before and Mi Sei Apparso Come un Fantasma (Italian for \"You come to me as a ghost\") came as my introduction to the band, it would make a fan out of me right quick. Recorded in Modena, Italy in September of 2000, Fantasma offers a better introduction to Songs: Ohia than the last couple of proper albums, which seemed like transitional or exploratory releases. But then again, Songs: Ohia is a band in constant flux; what began as Will Oldhamlike ramblings on their selftitled 1997 debut had become a Berlinperiod Bowieinspired project by the time Ghost Tropic saw release last year. Songs: Ohia has essentially always been the vision of singer/songwriter Jason Molina and whoever else happened to be hanging out with him at the time, but Fantasma is the statement of a fullfledged working rock band, with the additional guitarist, bassist, and drummer fleshing out Molina's skeletal song structures without diminishing their power. The spotlight, though, as always, remains on Molina's powerful voice and lyrics, which at their best sound bleak, mournful, hopeful, and reconciliatory all at once. Five of eight songs here are untitled and asyet unreleased elsewhere. That alone raises this release above the gratuitous repackagingoffavorites cliché that too often makes up the live album experience. The untitled albumopener is probably the best song on Fantasma. Riding a halting riff and minimal snare crack, the song lurches along with almost unbearable weight, slowly building to Molina's opening verse: \"All those days, we don't have days like that left to us.\" After ruminating on the body's ultimate demise without treading into maudlin or cliché territory, Molina and company rave it up in Crazy Horse fashion. Overall, it's about as classic a Songs: Ohia song as there is. The sixth track, also untitled, is another standout. Following a similar path as the opener, in terms of starting out slow and simple and then proceeding to a distortionfueled outro, it shows off Molina's ability to craft a guitar riff so simple and powerful that you wonder why no one thought of it before. Lead guitarist Dan Sullivan's role is incredibly pronounced here, too, adding an bright, angular guitar riff that's equal parts Steve Malkmus and Neil Young. The only gratuitous moment comes with the next track, where the band gets all Deadlike with an intro jam that goes on a little long. But by song's end, they pull it together, and Sullivan's eerie \"For What It's Worth\"sounding riff ends the songs on a powerful, if somber, note. The three previouslyreleased songs \"Tigress\" and \"Being in Love\" from 2000's The Lioness, and \"Cabwaylingo\" from the debut are reinterpreted enough to make them interesting in their own right, and not just in relation to the originals. This applies less to the former two, probably because the band was touring behind the album those songs are on, and not enough time had passed for them to change much. But the latter, the albumclosing \"Cabwaylingo,\" is given a Dylanesque reworking, with an extended intro and a completely different middle section, lyrically. It's a little treat for the longtime fans who've been paying attention all along: a convention of the live album Molina just couldn't bring himself to break away from. It sure beats a drum solo. "}