{"label":" SND","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7231/homepage_large.6bbe3582.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Sonic Youth","title":"Demonlover OST","text":" I've come to the realization that I'm never going to figure out noise. Nothing is more humbling to this supposed music expert than the experience of downloading a highrated album by a Fennesz or a Whitman, only to be confronted with headscratching experimentalism my poplovin' head can't even begin to wrap around, like sampling a drug and not understanding what the big deal is. I wouldn't dare think that the reviewers who celebrated the music were, in fact, wrong, due to the highly eloquent and clearly passionate writing it inspired in them, so instead I face the fact that I'm almost always going to enjoy reading a Richardson review more than I would enjoy the music he was writing about. But with Sonic Youth, it's not so simple keeping the noise segregated out of my sight and off my hard drive. Having developed in an avantgarde culture with the likes of Glenn Branca, the band has generally made no easy separation between their haha\"accessible\" content and the more difficult material in their catalog. And as a dutiful fan, I give most everything a shot, including the obtuseasfuck SYR series (\"what is this, a field recording from inside a vacuum?\"). Now this soundtrack for the French arthouse film, Demonlover which is certainly not to be confused with the 1985 flop, My Demon Lover, starring latterday Family Ties star Scott Valentine is the next test of my SYdevotion and patience. By my count, it's their third work for the screen, after the early noodling scorework for Made in USA (the reissue of which my 14yearold self was duly suckered into buying) and the actually quite nice strip mall desolation music for Eric Bogosian's woefullydated slacker opera SubUrbia. Demonlover's plot, something about virtual reality porn involving Gina Gershon, sounds fit for latenight Cinemax rotation, but the Youth's soundtrack is hardly bwombwomchikka woodpaneling and waterbed music. The leadoff track, \"Move Away\", sounds like an abstract Sonic Youth project I can get into, despite Kim moving back towards the demented cheerleader style of vocals that was thankfully absent from Murray Street. With an easy, laidback, funkish threeguitar groove (read: wahwah pedals), softly purring feedback, and Steve Shelley keeping a steady, grounding beat, it's got the kind of improvisational flair I've always hoped for out of SY a way to reconcile my childhood love for a happy jammy band that shall remain nameless with my more matoor appreciation for the indie rock. After this enticing slice, however, Demonlover moves off into quiet, ambient drone territory, which, as we've already established, is rather frightening and alien to this reviewer. But now, in my professional capacity as a critic of musical oddities, I've buckled down and given it a shot, trying it out in different environs, hoping to unlock the secret of the noise. Cranked up on headphones, I'll admit it gave a latenight walk to the video store a rather cinematic feel, feedback curling like the manhole smoke. On my harshlit morning subway ride, the more mechanical sounds blended with the heavy machinery whir around me. Before bed, it, well, put me to sleep not necessarily a bad thing, considering I once fell asleep at a Sigur Rós show and loved it. But despite all these incidences of contextenriching, I still find it difficult to say I actually enjoy listening to Demonlover. For starters, the ramshackle, rhythmless percussion found on most tracks (\"Control Freak\", \"Teknikal Illprovisation\") conjures up the same old train imagery I always get from abstract pieces, leading me to conclude I either had some profound prememory experience with trains, or that the textures here are not exactly groundbreaking if they sound familiar to me. While I wouldn't make the foolish assumption that the songs on Demonlover are dashedoff, many strike me as profoundly unfinished, like blocks of marble left partially unsculpted. \"Control Freak\", in its second half, blooms into a delicate interplay of riffs that sound like they'll explode any minute into a Daydream Nation epic... but then the track just ends. \"Electric Noisefield\" and \"Superdead\" could be the exhilarating exploratory sections in the middle of any number of SY tracks, but without melodic bookends they seem overly weightless. A handful of the sonic canvases whipped up by the band are at least surfaceinteresting, but am I alone in thinking that the addition of Jim O'Rourke to the lineup detracts somehow from their mystical edge in projects like this, eliminating the ubiquitous \"wow, this is all guitars?!\" response? Given the confessional nature of this review, it'd be more than fair to say that I'm probably not the best person to review this album. And really, without experiencing these compositions in the context of the film for which they were created, perhaps nobody is really capable of judging the competency of this material. But Sonic Youth must know that they have a spectrum of fans, ranging from those who bought Dirty on a Cobain rec, to those who think everything since the Sonic Death bootleg has been a sellout. I'd plot myself somewhere in the middle (you know, that SYR vacuum track is kinda cool), and I can't help but find Demonlover not only over my head, but a little bit on the dull side. Appendix: Demonlover also features a track each from Goldfrapp, Death in Vegas, Dub Squad, and Soulfly. Disappointingly, none are collaborations with Sonic Youth as my MP3 files suggested, and they're all pretty expendable, ranging from the kitschy Bond theme of Goldfrapp's \"Lovely Head\" to the absolutely godawful goatee raprock of Soulfly's \"Back to the Primitive\". Though come to think of it, a hot 3D sex scene set to Soulfly would probably be a lot sexier than one accompanied by \"Electric Noisefield\". "}