{"label":" Sounds Familyre","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7249/homepage_large.3e6d6c56.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Soul-Junk","title":"1957","text":" Fascinated by Christian commodities, I collect Jesusabilia. Any \"official\" spirituality seems to translate very poorly into the world of pocketable, vaguely symbolic trinkets, but there's something singularly hilarious and pitiful about supposedly Christhaunted license plates, bookends, bumper stickers, sock darners, paperweights, ballcaps, candle holders, and breathcandy (with brand names like Testamints, even). Christian music, too, is mostly saccharine dreck: the hymns are painfully obvious to the point of being metasongs about how the gathered singers are gathered to sing, the pop/rock stuff is a secondrate appropriation of the rote fads of alreadystank pop/rock, and many a wellintentioned abomination has been born under the auspices of Christian rap. Lately, though, some indie acts who've outed themselves as Christians (among them Damien Jurado, Pedro the Lion, Starflyer 59, and Danielson Famile) have done much to mitigate the shame purveyed by Stryper, Creed. P.O.D., and Carman (whose \"street\" effort Addicted to Jesus referred to by those in the know as A2J remains a classic work of accidental comedy). With their friendly connection to the Danielsons and their elements of playful showmanship (costumes and cheerleaders), SoulJunk are uniquely positioned to wipe smirks from the faces of those who sincerely doubt Christian rap could ever be interesting. Maybe I should distinguish this duo, Galaxalag and SloRo, as \"underground\" Christian rap, fitting for a religion whose proponents had to squat in caves back in the day. This intimidatingly prolific crew (1938 was their first release, and they haven't skipped a number) has honed an unbelievably progressive sound, making huge leaps just since their last release, 1956, a churchcritiquing treatise in the spirit of Kierkegaard's Attack Upon Christendom.1957's sound vacillates between extreme states of density and sparsity (\"Horse Posing as Unicorn\" even concludes with an extended jam that exposes how ramshackle it is beneath its instigative, propulsive chant). Some tracks explode with bombastic, digitized, orchestra hits that suggest a soundtrack for a hybrid of BenHur and Total Recall directed by Kubrick's resentful ghost. Other points hint at a posthuman updating of the more ominous moments in the Silver Apples' oeuvre. Whole tunes are underwritten by squiggling modembarfs, and the uncanny drum patterns simulate popcorn blossoming in a microwave. Forget the Beasties for a moment; this fortyminute wedge of berserkhop is more deserving of the \"Intergalactic\" title. At least two cuts offer detached triptones; but elsewhere the band is funkless, offering the ingredients of dance without the gregarious ease. This disc offers loops of dripping water, moaning horns, spastic hisses and pops, and insane harmonica. The album's sheer busyness demands a Daytime Emmy, as it's so ambitiously clamorous that it transcends its theological mission to convey a sense of secular apocalypse. These apoplectic white guys sound vital like Destroyer's Dan Bejar, as if they never get in ruts or need naps. The lyrics are amazing, but goofy. But amazing. But goofy. Robot voices rap about how we shouldn't get mad at dumb machines, and then Galaxalag slurs, \"How can parasites be so entertaining/ Debugged and debraining.\" This band adds a bizarre religious element to standard hiphop braggadocio (since they're \"down with Christ\") and to hiphop persecution complexes (since their references to martyrdom have an epic significance). If you can handle choruses like, \"It's time to make way for the resurrectionists!\", you're set up to enjoy some musicclusters so avantgarde they make Anticon sound Neptunesmooth. SoulJunk's carnival aesthetic suggests a dirty John the Baptist hanging out with flagellants; their tracks are spackled together or strewn like Jackson Pollack trying to use Microsoft Paintbrush on a computer built by lobotomized Fraggles. These biblefolk conjure an only occasionally wack kaleidoscopic frenzy. "}