{"label":" Rhymesayers","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7255/homepage_large.0fbe5b2b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Soul Position","title":"Things Go Better With RJ and Al","text":" Indierap has long had a chip on its shoulder, a muddled notion that real rappers don't make money or, if they do, don't talk about their money, that these things represent an affront to the noble and longstanding culture of hiphop. It's usually not quite clear what hiphop is if it doesn't include this stuff; it's a subculture always reacting and almost never acting. Things Go Better With RJ and Al, the second album from the Columbus, Ohio duo of rapper Blueprint and producer Rjd2, starts out doing the worst thing an indierap album can do: furiously declaiming itself as being firmly and militantly on the indie side of the divide: \"No slogans, no 20inch rims rolling/ No gold fronts, no publicity stunts.\" The song, \"No Gimmicks\", is clumsy, reductive, and hookless. On the next song, Blueprint is still saying the same stuff: \"Rap nowadays is by a bunch of ignorant cats/ No 'Young, Gifted and Black', just guns, bitches, and crack.\" So if this guy is so firmly devoted to the cause of real hiphop that he'll spend the first two songs on his album bitching about the state of rap, the question becomes what, exactly, Blueprint thinks is real hiphop. Judging by the rest of the album, Blueprint thinks hiphop means Will Smithian jokeraps about hooking up with ugly girls when he's drunk or fools using up his cellphone minutes. This should probably go without saying, but if you're going to insist that you represent the true heart of an artform, it might be a good idea to actually have something to say. Fortunately, though, Blueprint is pretty good at this jokerap stuff, and once he gets the bluster out of his system, he's a lot of fun, kicking goodnatured punchlines and riding beats with affable warmth. And lucky for him, Rjd2 is just about the best producer in indierap, and his gooey classicist strutfunk has none of the exhausted emptiness that it did the last time he produced an entire album, Aceyalone's Magnificent City. \"I'm Free\" comes with a great hardswinging horn riff and a biting funkguitar sample, while \"Drugs, Sex, Alcohol, RocknRoll\" builds on a nice distorted bassstomp and 1970s fluteflecks before finally turning into an instrumental breakdown that sounds like vintage Blue Cheer. Seeming short at 40 minutes, it's a slight album, and it's marred by Blueprint's slavish devotion to his own goofy songconcepts, like \"I'm Free\", which uses the word \"free\" on every line. Blueprint also has a tough time with hooks (he usually just repeats a couple of words over and over and hopes that it suffices) and a troubling streak of churlishness, advising young women to never have sex on \"The Cool Thing to Do\" and telling the story of a girl who gets molested and ends up becoming a lesbian on \"Drugs, Sex, Alcohol, RocknRoll\". But at least he resists the temptation of pointing out that \"Keys\" is about the little metal things that open doors. "}