{"label":" Violent Turd","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7260/homepage_large.25da1c65.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Soundmurderer","title":"Wired for Sound","text":" Another year, another revival, and this time it's jungle being resurrected and reevaluated. In the hands of Soundmurderer, dj/Rupture (aka Nettle) and the rest of the Broklyn Beats series contributors, and a new wave of Brazilian producers, jungle's resurgence focuses primarily on the more gruff, harsh ragga crossover, an oddly nondancefloororiented revisionism that negates most connections to anything light or feminine or oddly the communal sensibility rooted in rave.Wired for Sound collects three mixes of jungleragga mashups. In total, there are 60 tracks here most of which were first released on vinylonly in the mid1990s spread over 70 minutes, although it's not necessary for one to have a sense of the song's or genre's history to enjoy it. The mix combines the moments of release the peaks of each track so there are no breakdowns and a total absence of any sort of ebbandflow dynamic. Instead, it's an exquisitely blended scrum, an exhausting highspeed compact consolidation of harsh rhythm and sonic sludge best listened to one mix at a time than in one 70minute setting. Unlike many of the releases on the purposefully lowkey Violent Turd (Kid606's bastardpop label), Wired for Sound isn't a smothering of pop sensibilities in splatter beats and sonic goo. Instead, it's a flatout denial of some of the more pop elements of jungle omissions that will irk some, but no doubt be welcome to others. So while Detroitbased Soundmurderer (Todd Osborn, with help from Tadd Mullinix) resurrects jungle, it does so with a very selective memory. There is certainly a bit of selfserving revisionist history on display here as Osborn is celebrating the template in which his own raggajungle music to date only available on 12inch singles is rooted, but he's not passing the mixes off as a definitive compilation or even an accurate representation of the time or scene, so no bother.  The three mixes focus on the infancy of jungle: the explicit influence of highspeed, sometimes Caribbean rhythms and ragga rude bwoys on hardcore rave. Like dj/Rupture's Minesweeper Suite also released on Violent Turd they draw connections between the rhythms of the ghettoized people of different cultures, placing the fruits of Jamaican soundclashes next to Nation of Islaminspired jungle such as Kement Crew's \"Truth Over Falsehood\". Leaving room for ragga artists such as Barrington Levy, Cutty Ranks, Ninjaman, and Dennis Brown, Soundmurderer is mostly interested in interpretations of their rhythms and postures, a reimagination of jungle as the dark music of swaggering almost gangsta individuals rather than the domain of communality. Even though it was artists like Shy FX included here who first broke jungle in the UK charts, this bass and dancehallheavy style soon dissipated, replaced by the often jazzoriented, whitewashed \"intelligent\" drum and bass that hastened jungle's mostly ignominious ending. So although Osborn clearly suffers tunnel vision, his focus on the paranoia and dread of darkcore is as welcome a narrow focal point as he could have chosen. And with ragga written out of too much of the unofficial history of jungle, it's a potentially crucial one as well. Yet while Soundmurderer rescues the thrill of jungle from the head music boredom of its offshoots, the velocity, ferocity, and monolithic force of his mashups makes also negates any possibility that he is making dance music. Because we're without a community or social structure with which to engage with others through jungle there are almost no jungle club nights in the U.S. that oddly makes a bit of sense. However if jungle did undergo a true renaissance, it would be a shame were it to do so through this haughty, IDM lens.  On Wired for Sound, we're offered the rhythmic innovation of early jungle and ragga, but matched with the chinstroking and quasiart home music of ambient drum and bass. It's a wonderful, crucial reminder of why jungle was one of the 90s true high points, but like the work of Squarepusher or a lot of Kid606's other sonic prankster cohorts shows a curious unwillingness to value or even acknowledge its bodyfirst roots. It may be a straw man's history of jungle, but it's also a solid, succinct argument for why it's so beloved; sort of a greatest breaks collection that, although you can't dance to it, has a revolutionary beat. "}