{"label":" One Little Indian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/733/homepage_large.17ee3905.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Army of Me: Remixes and Covers","text":" With its wormy techno propulsion and bruising hiphop drums, \"Army of Me\" kicked off Post with a snarling menace in 1995. Ten years on, the popular favorite is obliterated, rethought, and generally mangled on this 20track charity record. Compiled by Björk and \"Army\" cowriter Graham Massey, the schizophrenic disc features a slew of littleknown acts from around the globe handpicked from hundreds of fan submissions. Though it must have been a beast of a task to whittle down the contenders to just 20, a more suitable 10 would have infinitely improved this often tedious exercise in song deconstruction. Even at its most misguided, the album's diversity is astounding a fitting tribute to Björk's universality. I'll never forget the last time I saw her perform at a minor league baseball stadium in Brooklyn two years ago: To my left a 60something grandma with her daughter, straight ahead a Latino family so touched by their hero they could barely look at her in between joyous sobs (it was a little creepy but poignant), and behind me a beyondpale German inexplicably looking like a bespectacled, welltailored Dickens character in the dead of summer. The same unlikely juxtapositions are inherent on Army of Me but each cover or remix's execution often saps the defiant energy out of its source material. Playing into the common coveralbum blueprint, we get a token country translation from the Brixtonbased Messengers of God, a slinky lounge version courtesy of France's Grisbi, three (too many) hard rock takes, and an accordiononly prank that basically defines the term \"novelty cover.\" Even relative superstar Patrick Wolf (often hyped as \"Björk as a boy\") misfires with an utterly selfserious remix mired in arch industrialism. Obviously, Björk is not the easiest singer to emulate, so the medalbearers in this Army wisely embody her keen sense of abstract exhibitionism instead of her physical gifts. Londonbased harpist Tom Moth spearheads the group Lunamoth, who turn in a beyond creepy spinetingler perfect for a David Lynch film or slow, poetic death under the eyes of a particularly bleak twilight. The group's choice to back their female, spokenword reading with a heavilyeffected, voicesinthehead intercom echo eerily captures the internal struggle for selfsufficiency Björk yearns for. Danish group Atoi give the bombastic track a subtle and genuine Vespertinestyle redux, with girlish vocals playing off blippy microsounds that pit and patter inside some igloo paradise. Two danceclubready tracks blissfully capture the original's beatbased funkiness in very different ways. Germany's Beats Beyond remix the track by backing Björk's vocals with a distorted fourfour crunch that recalls the whipping precision of fellow countrymen Alter Ego and their smash \"Rocker\". Seventeenyearold Swede Tor Bruce strays from Ms. B's punishing sentiments entirely and bubblesup with a pingponging happytime anthem that could easily double as winner's circle music for any Mario Kart game. It's a throwaway for sure, but in the most delightful way possible, which, unfortunately, can't be said for the majority of this mostly middling, sometimes excruciating collection. "}