{"label":" Constellation","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7286/homepage_large.086aa4b9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Frankie Sparo","title":"Welcome Crummy Mystics","text":" When listening to a downcast, boozy, roughvoiced troubadour, we wait for the moments of vulnerable beauty to shine through. Hearing one of Tom Waits' love songs in a cover version by a traditionally \"good\" singer, for example, can be enjoyable, but it's no match for the real thing. The extra emotional kick in a song like \"I Hope That I Don't Fall In Love With You\" comes from hearing his mournful croak coughing up the words. During these ballads a voice so raw and everyman becomes a powerful tool for exploring tenderness. Montreal's Frankie Sparo definitely has the roughvoiced part down. That his unschooled wail can make it to record is a testament to the lasting influence of \"anyone can do it\" punk. He could be any drunk perched on a barstool warbling along to the juke. On his debut record My Red Scare, though, Sparo wasn't able to get tunes to take him where his voice wanted to go. There were no melodic gems buried in the old rags and crumpled newspapers. The record sounded nice and had an effective atmosphere, but it only had a couple good songs. Sitting here now I can only remember one actual melody, and I listened to My Red Scare plenty. The good news with Welcome Crummy Mystics, Sparo's second fulllength, is that he's improving. He's fleshed out the instrumentation (he toured with A Sliver Mt. Zion and recorded a radioshot EP with the band called Arena Hostile, and many of the usual Montreal postrock suspects are here) but more important, he's crafted more memorable songs. The opening \\x93Hospitalville\\x94 sets the tone: sweeping strings provide sonic lushness while plinking piano and standup bass evoke the lush life of Strayhorx92s dives. And you can hum it. Rubbery acoustic bass and piano also decorate \"My Sister\\x94, which is like tuneful music handed down from Tin Pan Alley blended with a dollop of melancholy Weill/Brecht expressionism. When he's not writing grayscale piano ballads, Sparo experiments a bit but this time tosses in the occasional hook. \"Back on Speed\" is dominated by offkey screaming (I mean, he's not even close to the tune) that verges on annoying when the song takes a surprise turn. A stern male chorus in the lengthy outro transforms \"Back on Speed\" into what could be an Eastern European anthem of workers' solidarity. \"Caméra\" has a wonderful Badalamenti thing happening, with a gorgeous tremelo guitar, Sparo's, doubled voice (lyrics here in French) and subtle processed drones elevating a simple song into a kaleidoscopic whirlpool of gauzy nostalgia. There are a few dead spots. \"City As Might Have Been\" in particular seems a throwback to his debut. It opens with a nice string arrangement & throbbing tables, but the melody is nowhere and cax92t be redeemed by the tiny orchestra sawing away. Still, because of its production, even the dead spots are fair. Welcome Crummy Mystics at its worst is soso orchestral rock from the players that have perfected the form, but those moments when Sparo's songwriting rise to the same level make the record worthwhile. "}