{"label":" 1971","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7296/homepage_large.32a28549.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Spectrum [Brazil]","title":"Geração Bendita","text":" The Jesusfreaks and flower children lost, the dream is over. As I type this after a grueling day sweating over some godforsaken collection of paperwork, it is obvious that all that hubbub over peace, love and casual sex was but an extended Spring Break for a generation that, while idealistic and pretty, is probably counting their blessings that nobody pulled the plug on their party sooner. I can only imagine what it must have been like to actually believe people could change the world with love. Did those kids see the darkness on the edge of town, or was a just a three or fouryear festival light?Some might argue that the hippies never actually went away, but merely retreated into various Utopian communities on the outskirts of Yucatan bungalow hideaways. The past, however, is littered with the remains of broken dreams and shattered crystals of this forgotten society. Whatever happened to the Maharishi? Where is the mystical Gaian way of life today? Can we eat the brown ones yet?? And just how did Brazil's Spectrum lose their way?Spectrum comprised of onename wonders Fernando, Ramon, Caetano, Serghino and Tiao was formed in the late 60s by a group of local Rio de Janeiro kids who had a fondness for the Beatles and imported ideas of the hippie revolution. Most of their instruments belonged to their school (they started the band as teens), or were borrowed or handed down. They practiced at school, and were fairly popular for birthday parties and clubs. Shortly after christening themselves Spectrum, they were invited to contribute the soundtrack to \"Brazil's First Hippie Film\", Geração Bendita. Of course, Brazil's military regime didn't take too kindly to gratuitous hair and bandanas onscreen, so even though the movie was completed in 1971, it was banned for another two years. Spectrum couldn't hold out that long, and despite dreams of bringing the word to thousands of impressionable young Brazilians, they gradually packed it in and went back to their Rio suburb.What we have now is that soundtrack, in all its grainy glory. The thing is, Spectrum had heart and sometimes even a knack for nice group vocal harmonies like their idols, The Beatles. However, like many an aspiring psychedelic outfit, their enthusiasm didn't produce many classic tunes. Most of their music was highly derivative of late 60s legends like Traffic, The Easybeats and, of course, The Fab Four. Nevertheless, there are pleasures to be plundered here, and psych aficionados should dig it.Spectrum's best stuff is often as whimsical as that of their idols', if not quite as accomplished. \"Quiabo's\" features the wavering yelp of Fernando, some nifty harmonies and more fuzzguitar than you can shake a peacepipe at. \"Concerto Do Pantano\" forgoes vocals entirely to bring you the gospel according to Flange, as it was told to disciples Clumpy Drums and Reverb. Spectrum even get funky on \"15 Years Old\", summoning the spirits of The Pretty Things and Jimi Hendrix. I'm not sure this music is going to awaken as many ghosts today, as Spectrum's legacy seems oddly similar to dozens of spunky psych bands from all over who simply never made it past the local rec center. Good karma says to check out Nuggets first; Spectrum will understand. "}