{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7307/homepage_large.69ad89a4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Spokane","title":"The Proud Graduates","text":" To steal a line from Jack Black in High Fidelity, Rick Alverson makes \"sad bastard\" music. Thankfully, by the same virtue, it's \"damn beautiful,\" too. As helmsman for Drunk, Alverson fronted a band equally capable of conjuring up moody altrock Westerns and folky East Coast Americana. Now, after years of playing with that band, Alverson is also recording music from his home in Richmond, Virginia as Spokane. Spokane released the debut Leisure and Other Songs in 2000, and within a year Alverson had finished a second album, The Proud Graduates, and visited Maine to record American poet Robert Creeley reading his works for the first issue in the Jagjaguwar Correspondent series. Alverson might not share Creeley's confessional style, but a listen to both shows the transformative power of their emphatic delivery. Alverson's voice, warm and rich, yet wavering delicately, is accompanied on most songs by the other main Spokanester, Courtney Bowles. Sometimes she coos in harmony with him, and other times she echoes just a measure later, adding a sweet tone to complement his lower pitch. Together, they're metamorphic: \"Your room just isn't the same\" might be a dull statement for most, but from their throats, the chorus of the album's title track becomes a lament so melancholy that your own room might seem like that of a stranger's. The fading fall season seems to be trapped perfectly in the soft acoustic strums and sparse drums on this opening song. \"The Absentee\" continues with a greater sense of urgency. Alverson draws out each syllable in the verse (\"Row my body home/ And stow my heart below\") until his weary refrain seems like wind brushing across the pane. The drums and guitar patter repetitively, their circular motif soon reprised by violinist Karl Runge. They reach the chorus, and Bowles' singsong tempo, thankfully just shy of twee, brings a perverse cheer to the lines, \"I stayed up late sitting by the TV/ The happy faces spoiled my evening.\" As you listen, you get a sense of Spokane's poetics, a strange combination of domesticity and distance. \"American Television\" answers \"The Absentee\" with an intricate embroidery of glockenspiel, violin and electric guitar. As Alverson vaguely describes, \"My dear wife/ There in the kitchen/ I can almost hear her stir,\" the swooning instruments say all that he won't bring to words. We can forgive Spokane for \"Other Rooms.\" Someone should have told them that sampling the sounds of children and playgrounds has been done and done again, from Floyd to Boards of Canada to Rosewater Elizabeth. A move like this can mean Sudden Infant Death Syndrome for an album, but the poignant, chiming guitars that rise at the conclusion of this instrumental make it too damn pleasant to deride. Much of The Proud Graduates passes this way, in a smooth, unsurprising succession, yet the emotion in Alverson's honeyed rasp and the detail in every heartfelt chord keeps you hanging on. The persistent violin of \"Disappointed Athlete,\" in particular, recalls the sublime slowcore of Low's The Curtain Hits the Cast. Spokane come closest to breaking out of the subdued melancholy on \"The Workweek,\" as Alverson's voice rises higher, singing, \"The workweek will end (They told me so)/ And there will be another comfortable chair.../ But the stairs will creak/ And the dead wait in the street.\" Of course, considering the characters, from the proud graduates to the athlete, one might make accusations of a certain bourgeois, ivyleague sense of sorrow. But that seems to be the point: sadness illustrated in the dull patterns of life, both lyrically and in the cycle of verse to chorus and back to verse. The heart never quite breaks in the tales Spokane tell; it clenches and then lives on. And if these simple tragedies are repetitive and maudlin in any way, they're like an orgasm: you keep coming back for the little domestic deaths. "}