{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/740/homepage_large.adf0a47f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Black Dice","title":"Lost Valley EP","text":" Daily noise, like any other distraction, has a way of infiltrating more deeply into my life than I'd like to admit. All the secondhand conversation, radio static and traffic roar should amount to almost nothing in the grand scheme of existence, but over the course of a lifetime, it adds up to the lion share of the sounds I hear. This won't be news to any marketer, of course, as ageold strategies of subliminal messaging via media have been wreaking havoc on my sensibilities for years. However, subversive noise isn't always such a bad (or at least annoying) thing. Some musicians have found ways of manipulating their signals to suit our inner cravings in ways both clever and strange. Think of the churning earthrumble of Boredoms; My Bloody Valentine's wall of distorted bliss; go back even to Coltrane's sheets of sound. Black Dice's latest release taps into the notion of alluring noise, if not quite as beautifully as did their most recent fulllength, Beaches and Canyons. Before this year, the Brooklynbased band had earned a reputation for very short, wildly abrasive live shows reminiscent of the intentionally offputting commotion of Merzbow or early Swans. Their debut fulllength (2000's selftitled) was a document of just how far hardcore had come (not far? too far?) since 1982, but it also examined how disturbing the dissection of hardcore might be, the band spitting out shards of it into explosive, 30second shells. Beaches and Canyons was the result of two years' gradual transition into a much more subtle (if not nearly so intense) beast, and Lost Valley is a minor reflection on that change. The title track begins with distant, percolating percussion and soon adds highpitched bongos with mild, simmering guitar beneath the layer of drums. My first thought was that this is supposed to sound \"primal\", yet Black Dice actually end up sounding a lot more like moderns on a communal bent. The band uses the familiar elements of caveman trance to evoke images not of the Stone Age, but of sterile, apocalyptic landscapes and metallic ruins. Their use of electronics later in the piece contributes to this feeling, but the most telling ingredient is their stubborn refusal to ever settle into an easy groove. Even when the beat becomes steadier, spikes still jut outward, placing this music firmly outside the easy pigeonhole of your everyday psychedelic jungle music. The song becomes progressively detached from drumcircle fare as blips and screams take over near the end, only to stop on a fizzle of synth. \"Head Like a Door\" begins with a held unison note that sounds suspiciously like some of Gyorgy Ligeti's choral music used in 2001 intentional or not, it certainly adds a touch of tension and suspense to the drone, yet again suggesting that Black Dice aren't in this for tuning in and turning out. Nevertheless, the blast of feedback and cymbals just over four minutes in is just disorientating enough to remind me where these guys came from. In some ways, it seems a waste to use such a promising drone only to destroy it so hastily, but then I'm sure fluffing my groove pillows wasn't the order of the session. This miniCD isn't essential, but is (alongside Beaches and Canyons) yet another example of how easily noise is transformed into ear candy. Maybe it shouldn't be surprising to hear wouldbe nowave bands becoming wouldbe notrance bands even Merzbow plays laptop gigs but it is refreshing to see it produce such interesting results. Hit the fulllengths on either side of this first, and then come back to Lost Valley for an epilogue. "}