{"label":" Rephlex","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7341/homepage_large.cdabb3d5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Stakker","title":"Eurotechno","text":" For about thirty seconds in the mid90s, the most interesting groups working in the electronica field were The Orb, Orbital, and the decidedly noncircular Future Sound of London. Gobbling up ethnicities and new technologies like handfuls of xtabs, FSOL even hyped the ISDN by releasing an album created completely by way of the burgeoning young network, amalgamating odd strains of organic matter with digital detritus. But after Dead Cities, the techno game morphed out from under them, and the duo disappeared until their slight reemergence with last year's Floydnostalgic The Isness. Taking the ancient paradox of \"child is the father to the man\" to the Braindance manchild scene, this EP is futureFSOLer Brian Dougans' earliest work from the incipient, hedonistically heady times in the early days of Madchester. Lost in the acidic mix of time, it's now come back around, on a label inspired by this selfsame piece of music, Richard James' own Rephlex label. Created entirely on the Roland TB 303 (the bedrock for acid house noise squiggle and bump) way back in 1989, Dougans synched up with video artist Mark McLean for the influential Stakker video, one of the first visual projects to come out of the British electronic scene. An eyecandy standard for early raves and acid culture happenings (until coopted into an epilepticinducing advert), it was a massive statement as to the audiovisual possibilities of the new music, cutting and pasting at a pace that would drive even Brion Gysin dizzy. This isn't the first time Rephlex has reached into its head of halcyon flashbacks to pull forth a primordial, precomputerized gem of pure acid ferociousness remember, they also reissued 808 State's Newbuild a couple years back. But even that resurrection couldn't match the speed of ideas at work here. The emergencylevel frequencies quickly distort into a driving fouronthefloor stomp, undergoing permutations with a particularly harsh powertools buzz cutting all around it, even as the beat cools into something a bit more classic after a minute's length. The frenzy of clashing sounds recalls Carl Stalling cartoons, going for the most absurd squiggles, rubbery yanks, and rhythmic juxtapositions possible within the different patches of synth sound and editing capabilities. The core of the soundtrack lies between tracks 710, which are the longest by far at roughly two minutes apiece. The droning of the keyboards is metallic, as if sparks are spraying off the grooves, while the machine beats chug on unabated. Track 9 has a very sharp twinkling of panned crystals while the 303 squirts basso profundo underneath, creating a curious ambiance that would become the M.O. of Aphex Twin's Selected Ambient Works Vol. II. Track 10 has the jet stream bubbles and processed voices that were crucial to the early 808 State sound, too. Twentyone tracks go supersonic in just under twentyfive minutes, eradicating any recognizable patterns or large cogs of beat after more than a brief appearance. This attention span deficiency is the most telling influence on presentday activities by folks like Aphex Twin, Bogdan Raczynski, or Squarepusher, who can't keep still on a beat for more than a few seconds. Either as a history lesson through the classic Acid noises of a decade back, or as just a good ol' mix, Eurotechno is still quite quick and efficient work, even for a time machine. "}