{"label":" DFA","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/741/homepage_large.0e1d1cae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Black Dice","title":"Cone Toaster 12\"","text":" They say people are starting to dance again; NYC punks are starting artfunk bands, and suburban white kids are listening to hiphop sincerely, rather than as shock ammunition. Beats are back? Looking back, I can't recall them leaving: we had the same revelation about ten years ago when the Beasties picked up their instruments (again), Cypress Hill met Lollapalooza, and Beck decided to quit fucking around in his bedroom and fuck around in the top 40 instead. And of course that whole Madchester thing a few years earlier, when Shaun Ryder's Happy Mondays and the Stone Roses decided it was easier to be wasted in the pocket than out; before that, Blondie and Talking Heads shook their left feet as PIL and Gang of Four dangled their right lobes. When people say that dance is back, they probably mean \"dance is not currently a guilty pleasure for some people who might otherwise be sulking in the corner pointing out how the other people dancing aren't as happy as they look and even then only during the times the sulkers aren't dancing as well.\" So it should come as no surprise when formerly trueblue noisemakers Black Dice engage in whole album sides of fouronthefloor rumble. Arriving only a year after their sudden interest in Boredomsfueled sunworship and laptop enhancement, and a mere three years after their remorselessly abrasive debut, Cone Toaster makes the case that, if there had ever been a rift between the 24 hour party people and the nighthawks at the diner, it was purely for show. As if it took this release to spell it out, the lines between rock blast and disco panache (or a \"metaldisco fusion\" as longtime Pitchfork booster Chuck Eddy once called it) are often blurry to the point of being confused for one another. At this point, why bother? SideA features the title track: a new, semilengthy excursion into the nether regions of ugly escapism. Beginning with cutup cymbals on the left, warped guitar samples on the right and a big messy whump in the middle, you'd be forgiven for thinking the band had gone Fennesz on us. And then she hits: bumpbumpbumpbump goes the bass drum, and just to show you they're still hard, they substitute scraping, metallic pogo for house hihat. The occasional shimmer of guitar hints at the electric ocean music of Beaches & Canyons, but when the drums come in, it's clear that Black Dice want to be considered, first and foremost, a dance band with a noise fetish, rather than the other way around. Because of the various noises (drastically erratic, pitchshifted synth and occasional generator hum), I'm not sure how well this would go over at your party, but rest assured no one will have trouble finding the beat. They end the piece by speeding up to a tribal, tomladen race into space. A voicesample is sliced into small fragments, cycled repeatedly, while the reverb all around soaks up residual clamor; the end result is spacey, but alluring, and almost psychedelic. Boredoms' Yamatsuka Eye remixes \"Endless Happiness\" from Beaches & Canyons on the second side. If \"Cone Toaster\" represented the breaking point of a noise band coming to terms with groove, \"Endless Happiness\" revels in carefree celebration of it. The song should be a warning siren to anyone in doubt about either the roots of Black Dice's change of heart, or the future of this music, to which the opening alarm clang clatter attests. However, soon afterwards, jazz bass and light bells paint a much subtler picture. When the soft beat comes in, the tune takes on a light, tropical ambience perfectly suited to an oceanfront sunset. Eye brings it down a little more before introducing a thick, howling sample and pumping up the festival drums full bore. At that point, it sounds fairly similar to some of recent Boredoms adventures (particularly from the Shock City Shockers projects), and anyone enamored with that sound should be feeling pretty good. Eye has a nice way of introducing fairly noisy elements into the mix with considerable grace, subtracting them just as well, so that, even though there's always a lot happening, it never seems too busy. Nice track. Normally, the question might now be, \"what's next?\" We know Black Dice are in the midst of making music for their upcoming fulllength, and one can only assume it will be along the lines set forth on this primer. So far, they appear to be following a clear path to something pretty interesting, and if someone wants to label them a dance band now, so be it: I'll take whatever they've got when the results are as consistently engaging...hell, when they jam as much as this. "}