{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7358/homepage_large.442a24b3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Stars as Eyes","title":"Enemy of Fun","text":" Why isn't anyone sick of guitars yet? Haven't they had their day in the sun? What else can you do with them? I have seen the future of good music, and it lies not in the hand of the guitar god, but the laptop of the bedroom composer! Can rock and roll gel with the soft and the ware, creating not a dark and angry industrial beast, but a sound that draws on the less turbulent strains of the guitar's past? Of the few bands able to pull off the merger of electronicbased music with that most sacred of Satanworshipping gadgets, dark or no, Stars as Eyes is one to check out; if not for the big comfy living room chair that is Enemy of Fun their second fulllength on Tigerbeat 6 then for their deft and balanced approach to the alchemy of turning wood and strings into PC rock. The sound coming out of Stars as Eyes' bedroom originates somewhere behind an old 8track and a stack of Yes LPs, the sound of progrock filtered through the fingers of some dosing shoegazer and dropped into Sound Forge before filtering out into the world. A track like \"Important Youth Movement\", which drifts from a onechord fuzzbox strum and droning textural noise into a tranquilized, orchestral slumber party, is a good indication of what this disc achieves; by burying the sensibilities of traditional rock structures deep within a computer daydream, Stars as Eyes present the guitar not as a frontman but as a muse, a central cultivation hub where songs are born, then nursed on silicon before their infant brains are wired to the mainframe. \"The French Method\", the soundtrack to some stoned beach party bonfire in the Mushroom Kingdom, is just one possible result of such a childhood. Others range from the Clinicish Hammond organ interlude \"I Thought You Said Something Else\" to the album's highlight, \"Our Light\", an arenarock explosion of crying guitars and dramatic rock opera atmospherics that warrants a tailgaters' riot in the parking lot after the show. The guitar tries on different hats throughout: A spiraling riff one moment, a moaning ambient wind, or layer of atonal hum the next. What Stars as Eyes strive to avoid is an unequal distribution of attention to their influences; I don't think it's possible to put any sort of \"dance\" label on Enemy of Fun, nor would it be intuitive to put it on a kickball team with Tortoise or Buckethead's Colma. The duo manages to toe the line. It may be an inevitability, but many of the tracks here wind up taking familiar paths to their final encoding. Stars as Eyes take some approaches already practiced by many likeminded groups, and the results just can't shake the sound as previously defined. The more aggressive tracks on the record, particularly the frantic, Bionic Commando soundalike \"Falling Picture\" and the sloppy punk jazz of \"If I Could I Would Be You\" draw from the same well that nurtures Add N to (X). If Stars of the Lid had penned the mournful closer, named after a line in River's Edge (\"Where Do My Children Go at Night\"), I'm guessing they might have called it \"Requiem for Dying Mothers Part 1\". The guitar comes with its own set of limitations and inescapable, dogmatic implementations, and it's highly likely any overlap Stars as Eyes' experience with other musicians attempting similar feats can be linked to the finite territory of this wilderness. Solid and cohesive from start to close, and more than a little ambitious in its scope and reach, Enemy of Fun is a successful prototype for the future of artificially integrated laptop guitar music, improving on the more limited pleasures of their previous effort Freedom Rock. It manages to satisfy the traditional demands of independent rock music without leaving its 25th century cloud, making the world safe for electronic musicians to play air guitar in their bathrooms to the Liquid Tension Experiment once again. Come back, G.E. Smith. All is forgiven. "}