{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7359/homepage_large.e258a2b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Stars of the Lid","title":"The Tired Sounds of...","text":" Brian McBride and Adam Wiltzie of Stars of the Lid have traveled far in the six years since their debut, 1995's Music for Nitrous Oxide. But. They. Continue. To. Move. Very. Slowly. That promising first record combined crude guitar feedback with some snippets of religious radio programming that the band captured in their home state of Texas. It was all likely laid down on a fourtrack in some living room arranged around a doublebarreled bong. Music for Nitrous Oxide was a noble and affecting work of home recording, showing that the DIY aesthetic could be incorporated into experimental drone music just as easily as guitarbased pop. But The Tired Sounds of Stars of the Lid finds these guys fully harnessing the power of the studio, with striking results. Strings and horns are all over this record, and the richer palate gives the drones added weight and depth. In 1989, new music pioneer Pauline Oliveros recorded an amazing album called Deep Listening inside a 2,000,000gallon steel tank, and the feel of The Tired Sounds is similar. Like the Oliveros record, the listener is meant to focus attention on the subtle build and decay inside these layered drones. Slight breaks in harmony between a violin and a shard of guitar feedback carry serious emotional weight. The halfsecond decay of a breathless French horn resonates like a perfect chord change. Silence becomes another instrument.The Tired Sounds is an exceptionally long album two CDs or three LPs with six multipart suites over the course of about two hours. If this were the latest collection of 2Pac rarities, we'd be talking serious sonic overkill, but music that evolves this slowly needs plenty of time to stretch out. Hence, nothing about this lengthy album feels at all bloated or extraneous. The first threepart piece bears the jaunty title \"Requiem for Dying Mothers,\" and the music itself is fitting. Thick cello harmonies weave between guitar drones that have a bright, almost Celtic quality. Changes are paid out slowly over the course of close to seven minutes, until the track opens up in its second part, introducing periods of silence and deep, foreboding bass pedals. Eventually, the band's penchant for field recording rears its head, as the 20minute \"Requiem\" transforms into a gothic piece, with spare piano and unnamable radio transmissions. \"Austin Texas Mental Hospital\" keeps the party going over the next 20 minutes, as guitar feedback and a larger orchestra modulate between two chords, rocking back and forth slowly like a selfstimming resident of the facility that gives the piece its name. The second part of the track reminds me of the Peter Gabriel soundtrack to Birdy, with hints of mechanical breathing interspersed with throbbing bass tones and a hanging drone in the middle register. The second disc has a relatively lighter tone, with more space around the instruments, more keyboards, and less guitar feedback. \"Mullholland\" seems like it could be an audition tape for the forthcoming David Lynch film of a similar name, glowing with menace like a freshly waxed, cherryred vanity ride. \"Piano Aquieu,\" though, is the real find on this disc a minimal piece for treated keyboards, piano and organ, with a yearning melody and a halfhearted promise of redemption. The strings return in force on \"Fac 21,\" joining in a thick, Youngian drone. The pianobased \"Ballad of Distances\" recalls Labradford as heard through the ventilation shaft at Alcatraz, and the threepart \"A Lovesong (For Cubs)\" incorporates horns and cellos for a more conventional, but no less affecting sound. With each record, Stars of the Lid seem to assess what tools are at their disposal and then set about seeing how they can maximize the result. Their continued explorations into more varied instrumentation and richer sonics are a smashing success. Still, in their crowded field, it's hard to say exactly what makes Stars of the Lid so special. It comes to mind that their relentless commitment to subtlety sets them apart, as does their masterful hand with tone. Throughout The Tired Sounds, dissonance is doled out in small portions, perfectly coloring the sculpted fields of sound. "}