{"label":" GSL","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7367/homepage_large.b064654c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Starvations","title":"Gravity's a Bitch","text":" The Starvations are a band out of time. While their third record finds their sloppy barrock tightened up a bit, there's still nothing on it that would tip off an unwary listener that it wasn't recorded between 1977 and 1983. These dates are commemorated on Family Recordings's recent New Waves compilation as the bookends of the halcyon days of postpunk and new wave. But all trends have shadowtrends beneath them, and in this case, the term \"shadow\" couldn't be more appropriate. The Starvations is the bastard scion of two gothic punknoir bands, each of which formed in '77 and disbanded in '83: The Birthday Party and the Misfits. Blending the druggy storytelling and inebriated, throttled vocals of the former with the overstated morbidity and sloppy energy of the latter (with an L.A.centric nod to the psychodrama of X, another band that formed in '77 and, while they didn't disband, began turning away from gutwrenching punk and toward rootsy eclecticism around '83), the Starvations' unreconstructed take on classic L.A. punk is consistently exhilarating. If modern L.A. spawns more materialistic poppunk and less of the bohemian underbellytrawling favored by the indelible X, then the closest the Starvations come to modernity is on the first and last tracks of Gravity's a Bitch. Both are strong, and neither cedes too much aesthetic ground to the slickster zeitgeist, they're just sleeker, smoother rides than the unruly dirges that divide them.  Opener \"The Rising Horizon\" begins as a clipped, anthemic stomp, then blurs into a slashing glide during the verses, and finds Gabriel Hart reprising his constant themes of dopesick love and inevitable decline. Trudging across quicksand that represents both the downward pull of horse (\"And I walked/ And I sunk/ Severed my limbs/ Swimming in junk\") and of unrequited love, Hart also acknowledges the darkly romantic magnetism of such dire circumstances: \"And it never rains here but I won't complain/ Who'd ever want to wash away all the pretty stains?\"  The title track closes the record with a stylized flourish: A cool wash of melodic bass, shushing percussion and quietly ringing guitars allow Hart's voice more space to breathe than usual, before the song revs up with chugging chords and flecks of detuned piano. A bleak terrain unfolds between these two landmarks: The funereal drums and wobbly arpeggios of the teenangst dirge \"Purgatory\" (\"We're slowly decaying into our parents/ Frigid and soulless and codependent\"); the damaged surfrock and callandresponse shouts of \"Where was I?\"; and the literally opiated spaghettiwestern theme \"This Poison\". By addressing the vices of junk, booze, and love with equal desperation, the Starvations have a little fix for everybody.  "}