{"label":" Fusetron","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/744/homepage_large.2754d0ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Wolf Eyes & Black Dice","title":"Wolf Eyes & Black Dice","text":" Brooklyn's Black Dice and Ann Arbor, Michiganbased Wolf Eyes have collaborated before, a couple of times at least once on record (Chimes in Black Water, Vol. 1) and several times on stage but, as noise has no ownership, it's never been easy to discern exactly where the contributions of each begin and end. Recorded in New York and mixed in Michigan, this record is no exception. Here, the two bands' frequency cruelties overlap all five tracks are untitled, and even the bandnames on the sleeve are obscured by the invigorating tagline: \"The Lord Helps You.\"The two groups forgo percussion through almost the entire first half of the album, instead setting their sights to stringing up sine waves and static electricity gurgles. The cumulative effect of such moves slowly conjures up a sinister stasis merging with the lost echoes of the other tetchy elements as they sink below in the soupy mix, giving the early goings a murky undertow that threatens to keep the proceedings too still. On the choppy surface of the waves, a tugboat churns through the fog, but little is discernible beyond obfuscated shapes, and I keep waiting for the monsters to finally show themselves amongst all the primitive test signals and squeals.By track number three, the wintry winds of Aaron Dilloway and John Olson blow the doors wide open, letting in Hisham Bharoocha's corpsethudding kickdrum and Eric Copeland's high shrieks. The beastly beat flings guts at the walls and the homemade circuits scream bloody murder before the track's throat gets slashed altogether, guaranteeing inclusion on your next haunted house mix. The remainder of the side is a slow slur of star hums and openmouthed ghosts being twisted into tiny knots.Side B is given over to what could pass as a longlost purgatorial landscape left off last year's Beaches & Canyons or a John Carpenter score for a Tylenol Cluster Headache Gelcaps commercial. A CD skips along in the underworld, slowly intertwining Wolf Eyes' menacing ghost machines with Black Dice's bassheavy boiling. Around such a pulse, the remaining players pull noisy chunks right off the humming bone, picking the skeleton clean with sawtoothed oscillations and beaked stabs of hotwires before the side finally melts down into a single telltale heart pulsing against the floorboards. The seven players never quite reach the kinds of catharsis and climax that each separate entity produces, instead wallowing in the sort of dreaded ambience that, even when tossed off, offers a shivering sort of ebb and flow.  "}