{"label":" Too Pure","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7386/homepage_large.18ac18e2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Stereolab","title":"Oscillons From the Anti-Sun","text":" Years ago, before all this filesharing business, music fans were forced to spend hours standing around record stores, staring at overpriced import EPs and wondering whether they were really the sort of people who'd spend $12 bucks to hear four songs. Not only did all the pacing make you look like a moron, but the whole process had a way of making you really, really need the bathroom, leading to bad decisions you'd regret just as soon as you'd relieved yourself. This was the kind of thing that passed for bleak in the 1990s. And Stereolab, at least, made things easier on you, periodically collecting all the rarities you couldn't afford into their series of Switched On compilations. All you had to do to hear, say, Music for the Amorphous Body Center was wait patiently for a couple years pretty much like filesharing on a dialup connection. The thing that made the waiting difficult and the compilations useful was that Stereolab's sidelines tended to be better than a lot of groups' careers. This was, after all, the era's top recordcollector band, and half of the appeal was their ability to tinker with genre in exactly the way EPs are built for. At their best, what you got out of a new Stereolab track wasn't just a new \"song,\" but a new sound some way of stylizing their scattered interests (krautrock? French pop? bossa nova? Moog records? exotica? the Jetsons?) into something unexpected. As a result, the tracks that weaved around their fulllengths felt less like castoffs and more like peeks into an alternate history, a space that could include whatever triedon styles didn't quite fit with a given album. By the tail end of the decade, the music on their EPs was beginning to feel even more accessible than the LPs they accompanied thanks to a streak of simple, swinging pop songs that didn't yet fit with the Groop's forwardthinking image. Those EPs, though, never qualified for the Switched On treatment. So now it's time to thank Stereolab for releasing this comprehensive box set a total beast of a package, spanning three full discs of EP material, over a time period stretching from 1993's Transient RandomNoise Bursts with Announcements to 2001's SoundDust. Plus there's a bonus DVD of videos and television performances. Plus it's totally pop. Plus it costs less than $25. Less than $25! Artless as it might seem for critics to talk money, it's that low price point that makes me forgive the bizarre form these songs have been squeezed into. Before I caught that dollar sign, I was ready to spend several paragraphs bitching: If the idea was to compile a complete package, wouldn't you think they'd have lined up the EPs chronologically, each in its original sequence? And if the idea was just to let casual fans catch up, wouldn't you think they'd have cut out the album tracks that anchored most EPs, saving us the trouble of a third disc? Why go for a jumble like this one, where strings of terrific songs leave you feeling like you've got your hands on the ultimate Switched On, strings of album tracks leave you feeling like you've bought a weirdlyselected hits compilation, and odd juxtapositions seem to be trying to make the band's dronymotorik phases interchangeable with the fluffy pop of later records? Despite the complaints, anyone who enjoys Stereolab's late90s albums will find more than enough here to satisfy, particularly where those pop impulses are concerned. Most thrilling of all are the releases that accompanied Emperor Tomato Ketchup and Dots and Loops, a period when the band tackled the EP as a way to try its hand at traditional pop forms; \"Brigitte\" is all slow, wet melody, and songs like \"Allures\" have a rainyday pop swing that winds up feeling more Scandinavian than it does French. Those who've been waiting for this set will be even happier with the songs from the terrific Flourescences EP, which is as neat a pop package as you could ask for running from the flutepunctuated sway on the title track to the supersunny bounce of \"Pinball\", the only song I know of whose creators can reasonably claim it was inspired by both Heavenly and Van Halen. By the time you get back around to the hornswept lullabies on \"You Used to Call Me Sadness\" (already on one Switched On comp), it becomes clearer than ever why this band used to share fans with the early Cardigans; nothing says \"retrofuturism\" quite like stylizing oldfashioned pop into such clean, bubbly forms. Fans of the band's earlier, fiercer days will find slightly less to work with. Most of the drone here comes from Mars Audiac Quintet, the turning point between the buzzy charge they started off with and the wellgroomed pop styles that eventually won them over. Tracks from the Wow and Flutter EP have plenty of bite, and part four of \"Nihilist Assault Group\" may be as hard as they've ever rocked, but inclusions from the Ping Pong singles hew closer to the album's moony, melodic pulse. (The twochord organ line on \"Pain et Spectacles\" should top charts on its own.) More space winds up occupied by newer material, much of it from after the point where some fans (this reviewer included) fret that Stereolab's output began to feel vaguely academic; something always seems to have gone amiss when a band that could float gorgeously on two chords starts throwing in pedalsteel interludes just to keep you interested. Mixed in like this, though, you can start to appreciate them without your disappointment hackles raised. While some tracks from The Free Design and Captain Easychord (which prefaced Cobra... and SoundDust, respectively) seem to be trying and failing to find the vigor and ease of earlier work, they're still a pretty admirable extension of those earlier popexperiment sidelines. And the tracks here seem to unfold into shinier gems the more you listen: \"Soop Groove #1\" like a tweakedout cousin to \"Metronomic Underground\", \"Spinal Column\" twisting melodic intervals like never before, \"Les Aimes\" doing spooky Brazilian, and \"Long Life Love\" letting the late Mary Hansen chirp her way from the moonlounge to the earthbound swing and back. In summary: Not even $25! This may not be the bandhistory primer some people would like to say it is; give it to your favorite teenage rockers and they'll probably just wonder if people spent the whole of the late 1990s being quite so sweet and dreamy. And packing up like this certainly won't stop Stereolab from becoming the kind of group whose new albums people buy because they've \"heard so much about the band\" and then never really listen to. But for anyone who's already tapped in to the peaks of this band's career, the bulk of this stuff will prove exactly what you want out of EP material: Just as good as the albums, only different. "}