{"label":" DFA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/746/homepage_large.2b6927cf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Black Dice","title":"Creature Comforts","text":" When No New York was issued in 1978, it should have been fair warning to anyone within earshot that punk would not be confined to fashion statements or cathartic brattiness. Featuring four bands from Manhattan's lower East Side, the Brian Enoassembled compilation highlighted an artistic spirit far removed from the \"pretty vacant\" methodology of punk's first wave; as it happened, the sprawling, confrontational noise put forth by DNA, The Contortions, Mars, and Teenage Jesus & The Jerks resembled nothing so much as similar output by UK secondwave outfits like John Lydon's Public Image Limited or Clevelandbased archetypical postpunks Pere Ubu. That is, their \"confrontation\" came not so much in the physical power of the music (though it could be abrasive, to say the least) but in the conviction and often awkward, raw execution of their brand of expression. Nowave was as much artrock as it was punk, and despite its failure to break into the mainstream, its ideals were permanently stamped onto scores of musicians afterwards. Taking direct cues from the short movement, bands like Sonic Youth and Swans continued the often dark, grating sonic template of nowave, and ventured even further into conceptual grounds normally associated with modern classical composition or performance art. In some ways, nowave's successors were merely continuing a long standing New York tradition of eclecticism and the postmodern in rock that had been initiated in the 60s by The Velvet Underground and influenced by composers La Monte Young, Tony Conrad and Terry Riley. However, in the 80s, alongside a budding (and often antagonistic) American hardcore scene and wildly creative strands of postpunk all over the world, what stylistic benchmarks had been attributed to nowave shattered into countless strands of noise, electronic music and the otherwise indescribable. Almost three decades after the fact, New York's artpunks seem to have come full circle though the landscape of the rock press has not. Liars have been butchered in most mainstream music rags for making \"unlistenable\" music on their latest album, which, to my ears, sounds more like a tribute to artdamaged postpunk and nowave circa 1982 than any kind of radical change in direction. Likewise, Sightings and Black Dice draw from noise, experimental punk and perennial New York favesfromJapan High Rise and Fushitsusha. Not surprisingly, they get fewer Spin props than more melodically stable NYC outfits like the Yeah Yeah Yeahs or The Strokes (both of whom also happen to draw on the early 80s postpunk for inspiration, albeit \"new\" rather than \"no\" wave). However, Black Dice, like the best of the original wave of avantrockers, have yet to lapse into redundant hero worship or watereddown stylistic approximations. Depending on how you feel about perpetual forward motion, the Brooklyn trio (formerly a quartet, now minus drummer Hisham Bharoocha) could be admirably ambitious or maddeningly flighty; thus far, they've established a pattern on their fulllengths of abandoning the previous album's sonic palette for something drastically different. Their earliest releases could veer from spiky, violent impressionism to what Pitchfork's Brendan Reid described as \"anti music\" in his review of 2001's Cold Hands. When the band moved to the ultrahip DFA label for 2002's Beaches and Canyons, one might have expected them to dabble in electroclash which they sortof did on the \"Cone Toaster\" 12inch, only to immediately switch gears on the hazy, ambient Miles of Smiles EP earlier this year.Creature Comforts is Black Dice's fourth fulllength, and second for DFA. Lo and behold, it doesn't sound like anything else they've released. This record is made from pedals, delay, computers, solemn guitar arpeggios, loops, robot jungle sounds and cosmic ambience. It's almost completely divorced from any strand of rock (or even punk), yet sits comfortably alongside fellow New York trippers Suicide and English provocateurs Throbbing Gristle. There are percussive moments, but no real beats; there are noisy moments, but it's hardly a \"noise\" record; much of it seems improvised, yet for the most part the album proceeds in a linear fashion, as if one long, strange story is unfolding. Black Dice, apparently unconcerned with establishing their noiserock niche with peers Wolf Eyes or Lightning Bolt, are content to follow their muse as a matter of practice. The brief opener \"Cloud Pleaser\" begins with a simple, folkish guitar line (oddly reminiscent of Van Morrison's \"Brown Eyed Girl\"), and adds electronic bongos, a dash of xylophone and light buzzing sounds hardpanned to the left and right. The subtly insistent pulse established by the small, electronic orchestra gives the piece a tropical edge even as the sounds suggest a piecemeal, postapocalyptic Salvation Army setup. \"Treetops\" takes reorchestrates that pulse with a pingpong generator drum and distorted space bubbles. Throughout Creature Comforts, impressions of the jungle be they animal calls or tribal pound shape the soundscape. The end of \"Creature\" overflows with a wild, nocturnal frenzy using live percussion to accentuate the desperate, redeyed cries of assorted robobeasts jumping and flying about the mix. The 15minute centerpiece \"Skeleton\" rises slowly, with a slightly warped guitar figure, looped over more jungle percussion and unidentifiable humming calls (a human voice?). Like much of the rest of Creature Comforts, \"Skeleton\" features a surprisingly small number of instrumental elements. Black Dice uses them in a way that not only takes advantage of their skill manipulating electronic sound, but also unifies the album's otherwise disparate segments. The piece glides through several sections of propulsive ambience, each morphing into the next, and when the hihat pitterpatter emerges from a collage of looped guitars, the effect is as if stepping out of the jungle into an oasis, even if only for a short moment. I probably shouldn't be surprised to hear such striking moments of clarity. Black Dice, living up to their track record of everdiligent experimentation and the embrace of change, as well as a vibrant backdrop of New York pandemonium, have delivered one of this year's most interesting records and proved that you don't have to be noisy to make beautiful noise. "}