{"label":" Jetset","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7410/homepage_large.35c87c40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andrew Bryant","artist":"Stratford 4","title":"Love and Distortion","text":" Stratford 4 vocalist/guitarist Chris Streng nudged the dirt with his shoe, cocked his head to the side and replied in kind, \"So what you're saying is that you are a magic, talking bull, and you have the secret to my success?\" \"That is correct,\" the bull calmly replied. Streng was nervous, as this was the first time he'd met a talking bull during any of the many roadside bathroomstops his band makes during their busy tour schedule. \"Well... what is it?\" \"The reason your band hasn't hit it big yet is because you don't yet have the strength to breakonthrough. What you need to do to in order to gain strength,\" the bull cleared its throat, \"is eat one of the paddies of excrement I've produced in the field. It's rich in nutrients that will make you and your band the Next Big Thing.\" \"Gee... I don't know about that...\" \"Lou Reed did it.\" This was undoubtedly assuring to Streng as he went facefirst into the dung, and began his dietary regiment. It certainly seemed to help him accomplish his goal, as The Stratford 4 began to climb the ranks of indierock stardom, first with their EP This Could Be Heaven, then with their fulllength debut The Revolt Against Tired Noises, culminating in anticipation for their latest release on Jetset Records, Love and Distortion. Early on, top names such as Rolling Stone and The Chicago SunTimes lauded the album as a true union between seemingly disparate influences as My Bloody Valentine, Yo La Tengo, and The Velvet Underground. With the help of producer Chris Walla, Streng had finally given the world his full artistic vision, and it appeared at least initially that the world was accepting it in the same manner that Streng himself had originally accepted the defecation of that magical bovine, with an open mouth and a blind eye. Unfortunately for Streng and the rest of the band the moral of the story was soon to hit them square in the Rickenbacker 12string: you can learn to fly high by feeding off bullshit, but sooner or later you are going down for the count. Though one would be hardpressed to accuse the band of false advertising as there is both love and distortion present on the album the word \"fake\" comes to mind. From the fauxBritish accent (\"She Married the Birds\") to the teenage content of such imaginatively titled tracks as \"Tonight Would Be Alright\" and \"The Simple Things Take Over\" (sample lyric: \"I don't want to be your friend/ And I don't want this to end\"), the band sounds more a product of pop culture than the cultivated indieaesthete conveyed in the album's liner notes and content. Lest you doubt their credentials, the track \"Telephone\" literally and figuratively runs the gamut of the artistic influences upon which The Stratford 4 base themselves for better or worse. Amidst a fictional call to his mother, Streng relates how his world is falling apart while simultaneously asking for advice on what to do about it. His mother a thin veil for this crossgenerational metaphor replies that it all depends on \"what you're listening to.\" Of course, hipster that he is, Streng has his CD wallet unzipped, ready to list off such band names as \"Spacemen 3, Primal Scream, and T. Rex/ Belle and Sebastian and The Bunnymen\" before giving in to the suggestion of his mother not to \"forget Bob Dylan, and don't forget the Stones.\" While great in their own respect, one would expect that, given this large group of influential artists, the band could have produced a track (or album, for that matter) that showed a bit more variety and variability beyond the scope of sopping introspective lyrics and dulled hooks. It's telling that the band's moment of shining promise comes at the end of the track that damns them the most, when Streng finally takes a break from being the constraining superego with the line \"there's more to this life than The Stratford 4.\" Like a weight lifted off their shoulders, the rest of the band is afforded the opportunity to explore the limited sonic region they've decided to call their own, and to good effect, as the final half of the song comes closest to the origin of their purported sound. Even more promise is shown with the harder and decidedly catchier \"The Story Is Over\", with its meaty guitar riff and thankfully muted vocals. \"Kleptophilia\" and \"Tiger Girl\" display a much stronger songwriting style, allowing the fuzzedout guitars and tinny percussion to lead the way through relatively strong bridges and brief choruses. Unfortunately, the tracks grow increasingly difficult to hear as the album concludes, not because of any abstract artistic statement on the band's behalf mercifully but due to the deafening roar of used bin CDs clapping against one another as consumers rifle through the vast abundance of The Stratford 4's Love and Distortion, all sold in a fit of rage that can only follow failed expectations after being forcefed overpraise, which is more often than not a load of shit. "}