{"label":" Hydrogen Dukebox","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/748/homepage_large.34d06c9d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Black Dog and Black Sifichi","title":"Unsavoury Products","text":" Before he releases his travel guide to Interzone, Ken Downie (aka The Black Dog) gives the world a twentytrack intelligent techno appreciation of the essence of William Burroughs. Aiding Downie in this meticulously wrought homage is performance artist/poet and fellow traveler on the Road to the Western Lands, Black Sifichi. Downie put together Unsavoury Products as he was constructing his asyetunreleased album featuring Burroughs himself. But this album is far from just a bricabrac jumble. Unsavoury Products shows that there's more to the Black Dog/Black Sifichi partnership than just a shared admiration for the darkest swatch in the Pantone color chart. Neither takes center stage; free of ego, the pair allow the album to impart its provocative energy unhindered. Avoiding gauche parody or drooling idolatry, Sifichi's spoken word contributions are unmistakably Burroughsian. Yet nowhere on Unsavoury Products can I justifiably accuse Sifichi of ripping off Burroughs' idiosyncratic delivery nor his emotionally distant factional narratives. In fact, Sifichi's voice sounds more like an amalgam of Ken Nordine and James Mason! Sifichi possesses Burroughs' canny ability to present unreal phantasmagoric events as incontrovertible truth. From expositions on musical theory (\"Let's Talk Music\") to enthusiastically goofy parodies of catalog shopping (\"Inconspicuous Audiometric\") via comic routines in questionable taste (\"Mental Health Hotline\"), I find myself challenging Sifichi's narratives. Is he really informing me of undisputable facts, or just yanking my chain? Which is exactly how I respond to Burroughs' works. Referencing the time Burroughs spent in Tangiers and Morocco in which he and Paul Bowles became devoted listeners of the mystical Master Musicians of Joujouka, Downie surrounds some of Sifichi's expositions of possible parallel realities in mock Arabic accents. The prime example of this on Unsavoury Products is \"Dogbite,\" in which Downie introduces an oud and the Maghreb wail of a female devotee to his AI techno. Downie's contribution is not all quartertones and ululations, though. \"Secret Biscuits\" and \"Interview\" nod to the industrial funk of Michael Franti's Disposable Heroes of Hiphoprisy and that act's collaboration with Burroughs, Spare Ass Annie and Other Tales. \"If I Were King\" is distinctly UK techno in origin, with spindly synth lines and Venusian jazz chords. But instead of constructing a Derrick May rhythm pattern, Downie surprises by dropping some dread hiphop weight. \"B4 The Sky Was Built\" is as dense as kif smoke and just as hallucinogenic indistinct voices mumble as trap drums beat out a dubby bassline. A solo violin swoops through this disturbing vapor, bringing to mind the repetitive forms of waterless dunes. Since the tinny \"Invisible Things\" sounds selfconsciously like early90s techno, I'm convinced Downie's joining Sifichi in kidding the listener, especially when he brings in the rinkydinkiest vibraphone solo of all time. \"Science Tells Us\" takes the skippy rhythm of \"Invisible Things\" and transforms it into something far more serious. As the rhythm patters along, Downie surrounds it in twisting microtonal movements of primitive reed instruments to produce squalls not unlike feedback. Buried in the mix, Sifichi's barely formed vocals populate the soundspace abandoned by sanity, driven unintelligible by the ceaseless cruelty of the desert sun. Rather than bearing the offensive stench of rotting meat, Unsavoury Products is a heady blend of spices and aromas. However, I find that it's often too much for me to take in one sitting. This is more a criticism of me than of Downie and Sifichi. But if I'm to give this album its due, I can't just put it on in the background and potter about my business. It demands undistracted concentration. For Unsavoury Products is a fascinating and multilayered album, and one the Black Dog will have to enlist the wildest of Interzone trippers to better. "}