{"label":" 679","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7414/homepage_large.289c542a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"The Streets","title":"Don't Mug Yourself EP","text":" It's bad enough that 679 have released eight different singles in support of The Streets' admittedly superb 2002 debut Original Pirate Material. Most of those promotional coasters differed in appearance more than content and devalued Mike Skinner's stock, but this EP takes the cake: in an effort to further extend the shelf life of their premiere moneymaking vehicle, 679 compiled the bside remixes from that criminal tide for another EP. You can't blame them, since they're only fucking over people that would, could and did drop £25 to buy all those discs; it's like he says on wax: the weak become heroes, and they'll stuff Skinner's coffers buying this rehash to complete their collection. For the rest of us Americans who buy imports, predominantly this EP made widely available one of the best dance songs released in 2002: Röyksopp's remix of The Streets' \"Weak Become Heroes\". It was the defining moment in the shortlived \"microhouse\" craze, which, in the simplest terms, translated to a sort of humble, almost twee dance music: beats untainted by crystalline production, boring Helveticatype layouts and you know... pacifiers, huge pants, that shit. Microhouse developed alongside mashups at the crest of UK garage, an evolving sound speeding up its U.S. inspiration: the smooth, postdisco rhythms pulsing from New York City's Paradise Garage in the early 80s, then later in the decade on Strictly Rhythm, the imprint that documented the twilight of underground/garage disco and its evolution into pure club dance. Röyksopp's own music isn't so straightforward as this fouronthefloor remix, but, inspired by Skinner's truetolife lyrics, they perfectly recreate the kind of overcast, dewcoated metropolitan mornings so many ravers stumbled out into in the late 80s/early 90s. Like The Streets' music and much of microhouse, this is rave nostalgia a new generation pining for the innocent, freespirited days of (more than) a decade ago. Another nostalgia invaded the UK charts around the same time, as ten thousand DJ \"crews\" most famously the So Solid gaggle looked back on the Wild Bunch and the collaborative scene that gave us triphop. But the hiphop affectations and sohard reps so many of these emcees tossed around played as period comedy to Mike Skinner, who as The Streets took the piss out of them all, telling the true, boring stories of mornings after: runny eggs, smoky clothes and dead cellphone batteries. He was loved. He was hated. He outsold almost everyone he was hijacking. If he's not being pimped by his record label on this EP, he's a greedy fucking bastard. (We'd have waited two years, Mike). Inexplicably opening with the censored radio edit of its title track, Don't Mug Yourself gets its glory out of the way quick, slotting Röyksopp's aching reverb regrets second; from there, you may or may not choose to suffer through coloringbook genre remixes. Big$hot dumps a monotonous 606 house restaging, and the Fusion mix only made me remember how right DJ Shadow was: hiphop really did suck in 1996. The only other actual remix on here is from Jammer, whose homestyle Yamaha strings while interesting in a James Bond sort of way, with their menacing Russian melodies drag on forever. At four minutes, it feels like twenty. An acapella version of the lyrics begs for mashup treatment, which is by now bordering on passé, especially in the hypeaminute world Vice Magazine (the band's US label) documents. It also needlessly exposes Skinner's inability to deliver more than three words without cutting the tape and looping back in. Capping everything off? The album version of \"Don't Mug Yourself\". Fuuuuckin' value, gents. Aside from an even more glistening instrumental run of Röyksopp's partystarting backing track for \"Weak Become Heroes\", this EP is reprehensibly thin. That you'll have to buy it for that one glorious cut is a shame, but at a budget price, this Great Garage Swindle is probably worth it for a track The Streets had little to do with. [CORRECTION: This review refers to the UKonly 679 release; in America, on Vice Records, it will be a twotrack single featuring \"Give Me Back My Lighter\". Our apologies to Vice.] "}