{"label":" Yep Roc","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7418/homepage_large.5779e42f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Ken Stringfellow","title":"Soft Commands","text":" The shot on the cover of Ken Stringfellow's third solo album looks like it was snapped in about 40 seconds in a hotel room decorated circa 1973, just before he headed off to take some stage with one of the numerous bands he tours with, be it the reconstituted Big Star, the remnants of The Posies, or R.E.M. The liners are sprinkled with outoffocus shots of unidentified cities taken from highrise windows, presumably in rented rooms. To say that Stringfellow lives a mobile, busy musical life is an understatement he produces, does session work, tours as both a side and front man, and occasionally records a solo record like this one, which was written on three continents and recorded in four separate studios. Stringfellow and longtime partner Jon Auer were wideeyed fans of the guitarpop vanguard when they inaugurated The Posies in the late 80s, and by the time they were dropped by DGC in 1997, they were fully immersed in both the band and the genre (good buddies with Alex Chilton, Peter Buck and Scott McCaughey), and unable to fully put The Posies to rest even after officially breaking up. Stringfellow's first solo album, 1997's This Sounds Like Goodbye was an uncharacteristically experimental and homespun album, a sort of exorcism of ideas, but his 2001 followup effort, Touched, was a welldeveloped album of sophisticated, classic pop. Soft Commands builds directly on that progression with a batch of songs guaranteed to be huge hits as soon as we're all sucked into a giant time warp and plunked back down in 1974. The arrangements this time out are much more ambitious, with small orchestras darkening the corners of the songs and lending a baroque, stately aura to the album. Even \"For Your Sake\", one of two tracks without outside collaborators, sounds huge, with miledeep synths, fuzz bass accents and nervous rhythms backing Stringfellow's lithiumsmooth tenor the melody is a collection of woven phrases that challenge the meter and highlight the fragmentary nature of the lyrics. \"Let Me Do\" doesn't exactly conjure the Senegal locale it was written in, instead fleshing out a simple declaration of romantic intent with opulent horn and string charts. Stringfellow takes his music subtly in dozens of different, sometimes bold directions on Soft Commands, dropping reggae and skainflected verses on \"You Become the Dawn\", a blueeyed soul confection with a big, horndraped chorus and a strange chant interlude featuring massed vocals and organ. It's followed by a throwaway dub instrumental, which is about the only point on the album in which Stringfellow takes his musical curiosity a bit too far. Elsewhere, \"Cyclone Graves\", with its refrain of, \"I hope you never go blind,\" conjures the softrock mastery of Todd Rundgren's Something/Anything, while opener \"You Drew\" makes a convincing case for the legacy of Jackson Browne with its graceful melody and anthemic scope. \"When U Find Someone\" rises from humble verses to an expansive, Wilsonian chorus packed with harmonies, kettle drums and theremin, establishing itself as the album's early highlight. The album closes with the comparatively spare \"Death of a City\", primarily featuring Stringfellow and his piano, though he layers himself into a massive choir at points while strings flit about in the background, adding counterpoint to his vocals. \"You go out late and look for the stars/ But all you see is orange on the clouds,\" he sings, summing up the futility of stargazing in the city, and you get the impression that he's weary of urban life, even as he feeds off of it. For an album recorded in so many places and incorporating so many states of mind, Soft Commands is remarkably cohesive, and a forceful confirmation of Stringfellow's ability to stand on his own as an artist worthy of respect and a listen from any true fan of classic pop. "}