{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7420/homepage_large.1d3c4271.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Strokes","title":"Room on Fire","text":" Okay, can someone please remind me why The Strokes were such a polarizing force about two years ago? Listening to Is This It last week had me scratching my head over how it managed to become the Roe vs. Wade of the rock crit world in 2001, with everyone forced to choose sides: \"saviors of rock!\" or \"everything that's wrong with music today!\" At the time, I found myself in the latter category, ironically earning myself a spot on this very staff with a lengthy diatribe against the band's hype machine, socioeconomic background, and rampant influencepilfering. You know, basically everything but the music. I feel pretty silly about such grandstanding nowadays, having finally listened to, and embraced, at least the showstopping middle third of The Strokes' debut. But with the release of Room on Fire, both sides of The Great Strokes Debate look a little foolish; NYC's finest have all but given birth to an identical twin. In the interim, a perplexing flirtation with Radiohead producer Nigel Godrich (\"you know, 'Last Nite' was just a few lasers away from being perfect!\") was scrapped, and the band's relentless touring failed to lead them down the cockier, arenarock path some suspected they'd travel. Instead, Room on Fire is eleven songs sharing DNA with its predecessor, a followup of more sleepy, contagious monopop that doesn't sound diligently recorded so much as yawned out. This is far from a bad thing, largely because The Strokes seem almost pathologically unable to write a song that isn't immediately catchy. Tracks like \"Reptilia\", \"Meet Me in the Bathroom\", and \"Under Control\" take their place alongside the highlights of the band's debut, all hitting that perfect contrast of woozy nonchalance and taut guitar work that appears to be the alpha and omega of their stylistic inventory. That there's nothing new or innovative to be found here is sure to be a common complaint, though only those who prize evolution over knowing one's strengths will cry fraud. Speaking of the originality quotient and not to add more historical tinder to the fire of what bands The Strokes supposedly owe a debt to, but lead guitarist Nick Valensi is sweating The Pixies' Joey Santiago something fierce here. His development is the only newish detail I can detect on Room on Fire, and it's an inspiration that lends improvement; Santiago's beautifully simple lead lines were The Pixies' secret weapon, and Valensi employs a similar humble style to lend a melodic counterpoint to the proceedings. Whether showing up at the Halloween party as The Cars' keyboard on \"12:51\" or contributing slowhand solos to \"What Ever Happened?\" and \"You Talk Way Too Much\", it's an extra spritz of tuneship that only assists The Strokes' infectious ways. Of course, Julian Casablancas is a far cry from Frank Black as vocalists go, but it can at least be said that he knows his place through Room on Fire. Wisely avoiding the unbecoming screaminess of subpar Is This It tracks like \"Take It or Leave It\" and \"New York City Cops\", he instead applies a cough syrupy croon to \"Under Control\" and \"The End Is No End\", its bum notes smoothed out by his payphone vocal effect addiction. Casablancas also appears to have moved beyond the smirking misogyny of his early lyrics, just as the cover art is sagely chosen to continue the abstract graphic theme of the Stateside edition of Is This It rather than the Smell the Glovestyle UK version. Meanwhile, the rhythm section, the band's Achilles' heel, continues to miraculously scrape by, lending these tracks a vaguely new wave air despite slacklimp playing (hey guys, trade Godrich's number for the DFA's and you might be onto something). Drummer Fabrizio Moretti has always tended to sound a bit like a drum machine, and here his best work happens when he shares the drummer's stool with a sampler \"The Way It Is\" and \"Meet Me in the Bathroom\" shuffle with the best technology 1983 had to offer. Bassman Nikolai Fraiture, mostly relegated to backbone status on this outing, carries less of the band's melodic weight than he did on Is This It but gets a frontofstage moment on the perfectly choreographed breakdown of \"Reptilia\". It remains to be seen whether old white men will continue to trumpet The Strokes as leading the cause of hiphopicide, and if young white idealists will stand firm on the opposite side, regarding the band as the Nike of indie rock (and no doubt fixating their conspiracy theories on Casablancas' sarcastic aside \"keepin' down the underground, oh no!\"); what's clear is that The Fab(rizio) Five neither deserve, nor desire, either status their goals are about as unpretentious and uncomplicated as possible. They may not be able to get away with milking this formula for many more albums, but for now, Room on Fire's eleven songs find them drowsily getting away with what they do best. "}