{"label":" Chairkickers Union","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13263/homepage_large.aace83fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Black-Eyed Snakes","title":"Rise Up!","text":" There's something stupidly redundant about dubbing a record \"bluesbased rock and roll,\" given rock's excruciatingly welldocumented rural roots. Occasionally, though, a contemporary rock outfit will faithfully resurrect not just the nowubiquitous 12bar noodle, but also the coy, shiftyeyed spirit of the original blues, simultaneously employing skeleton cover art, cornbread mantras, and goofily enigmatic aliases. The BlackEyed Snakes, the unlikely side project of Low's Alan Sparhawk, have wisely shied away from the puttering, voodoo blues schtick that made their 2001 debut, It's the BlackEyed Snakes, play like pure masquerade. The members have, however, dutifully retained their cheeky blues pseudonyms (Alan Sparhawk continues to appear as \"ChickenBone George\"), and a biography that reads like bad Toni Morrison (\"OK, these ain't your mother and daddys BlackEyed Snakes. Best tell everyone: things changed.\") But Rise Up! is, at least sonically, a considerably less gimmicky effort than its predecessor, far more concerned with capturing the unquestionable ecstasy of riffing than with showcasing quasiironic posturing. Ultimately, Rise Up! transgresses, rather than regurgitates, kneejerk blues formula; The BlackEyed Snakes' brand of \"blues\" is just as informed by the energy and ethos of punk and garage rock as it is by the infamous Delta triumvirate of God/whiskey/women. And while bluesmeetspunk is exceptionally welltread ground in 2003 (see: Jon Spencer, Black Keys, etc.), the Snakes' brew tends to skew a bit dirtier, incorporating a backwards folk ambiance that's less reminiscent of The White Stripes than Califone: check \"Soggy\" Tim Rutili manning the slide on three tracks, or notice how the deft maraca opening of \"Hillside Stomp\" makes you think Brian Deck is lurking in the back of the room. There's also the issue of Sparhawk's alterego: If the experience of listening to Low approximates the aching sublimity of freezing to death, spinning the BlackEyed Snakes is akin to bursting into flame. Sparhawk's vocals so peaceably docile when tumbling along with Low are painfully distorted here, and their new, dressedup gurgle is deliberately misleading, much like Sparhawk's nickname; Sparhawk seems intent on keeping his respective projects wholly distinct (coyly cloaking both his real name and his real pipes), preemptively striking out at anyone eager to accuse him of wild Dr. Jeckylisms. Consequently, the BlackEyed Snakes and Low remain superficially incomparable. Still, both employ an impressive sense of emancipation, of classic buildandrelease structure, always seesawing between the unlistenable and the sublime. \"Rise Up!\" opens the record with an exclamationpointed promise of insurgence, and promptly offers an appropriate soundtrack: unpolished, heavily distorted, and teethgnashing fierce, the track boasts plenty of lustful guitar solos and thickheaded bass drum pumping. \"Cornbread\" tumbles from uncontrolled, freewheeling riffs into a drunken \"Devil's in the cornbread, cornbread\" breakdown, complete with handclaps and multivoiced chanting, while a cover of \"Bo Diddley\" references its namesake in both riff and force (Sparhawk's hollers of \"Hey Bo Diddley/ Said hey, Bo Biddley!\" form an oddly convincing incantations), eventually easing in some perfectly unexpected congas. The BlackEyed Snakes' version of the blues isn't always especially credible, but their evocation can still be transcendent: there are flashes of red on Rise Up! that are just fiery enough to manipulate listeners into instantly inking their own deals with the devil, even if it's just for the thrill of the burn. "}