{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7446/homepage_large.d97441c3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Summer Hymns","title":"Clemency","text":" There's a fine line between cliché and brilliance. Hackneyed, overdone musical signifiers are easily and endlessly exploited, but it's often the most engaging and memorable music that reminds us why these clichés exist in the first place, recreating them with spontaneity and sincerity. When Summer Hymns released their debut Voice Brother and Sister in 2000, there was no dearth of reasons to suspect contrived kitsch here was a band with the word \"Summer\" in their name, releasing an album overrun with lazilyplucked banjos, transplanted back porch ambience, and hazy, ethereal vocals. Voice Brother and Sister seemed so thematically and musically whole that it was destined to be either a masterpiece or a bit of insubstantial fluff. Thankfully, it fit quite comfortably into the first category, and still stands as one of the most gorgeous, instantly accessible and compelling albums of the last several years. With the release of their third album Clemency, Summer Hymns once again find themselves skirting dangerous territory, as many of the musicians whose contributions helped make 2001's A Celebratory Arm Gesture such a rewarding followup have moved on, the hole created by their absence filled largely by oftmisused lap steel guitar and the odd sample and drum machine beat. Frontman Zachary Gresham once again proves remarkably adept at playing music that sounds perfectly suited for itself, crafting a loose, countrytinged rock album that avoids both bar band mediocrity and shallow, overdetermined rootsiness.Clemency wastes no time establishing its sonic difference from the last two Summer Hymns records. Gresham's voice is right at the front of the mix, its wavering, awkward qualities now embraced rather than reverbed to oblivion. Opener \"Be Anywhere\" places Gresham's voice atop a relatively skeletal arrangement of guitar, drums, and glockenspiel, slowly building to a melancholy crescendo of slide guitar and harmony vocals. Gresham's claim that \"I could be anyone with you\" oozes with concurrent sweetness and sadness a moment of perfectly captured emotional complexity conveyed brilliantly through the newfound sonic lucidity of his voice. \"Upon Your Face\" works similarly, injecting the more upbeat songcraft of A Celebratory Arm Gesture with an oddly unsettling brand of melancholy. Throughout Clemency, Gresham spikes mundane storytelling with moments of profound reflection, and his music follows suit; \"Upon Your Face\" alternates between a casual, relaxed groove and a chorus so fluid and gripping it sounds like it's melting. \"Cold Hamster\" rattles off childlike observations about life, death, and pets amidst a subtle harmonic interplay of guitar, bass, piano, and electronics. The brief \"I Erase\" is a dusty western ballad whose hero rides into town with the drum machine clapping of a digital horse, but it comes across as anything but a gratuitous piece of genremashing. Though without a doubt a strong record, Clemency does have a few notable moments of weakness that render it less consistently gripping than its predecessors. \"Pete Rose Affinity\" is the \"Heavy Metal Drummer\" of the album, awkwardly telling a story in a way that comes across as relatively charming the first time, but fails to hold up. The barelydiscernable vocal sample towards the middle of \"Wet Mess\" is a mere distraction a shame considering that the song builds to one of the most forceful, rocking crescendos to be found on the album. \"This Hip Hop\" takes the whole of its length to get anywhere close to convincing, even on repeated listens. A few missteps aside, Clemency is generally a consistent record if anything, a bit too consistent, as some of the shockingly successful experimentation of the last two Summer Hymns records is sacrificed in favor of a more homogenous collection of songs. Perhaps the addition of two fulltime members who don't have to split time with other bands is responsible for the more live bandlike execution of Clemency. And though it may not be quite as stunning as the previous Summer Hymns albums, you can't help but be drawn in: like the albums that came before it, Clemency is a deep, rich, and profoundly engrossing listen, proving once again that, if used properly, the most familiar sounds can also be the most affecting. "}