{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7448/homepage_large.b0769a5f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Summer Hymns","title":"Value Series, Vol. 1: Fool's Gold","text":" There are bands who make music with distinctly seasonal undercurrents, and then there's Summer Hymns. The Athens, GAbased sextet make no effort to mask their climatic intentions: The warm months are their loyal muse, and until now, the band have seemed content to meander the verdant ruralities of the South, producing immersive, atmospheric pop that's humid and hazy like Athens in thickest summer. While never groundbreaking, musical sojourns like those upon which Summer Hymns embark aren't easy to execute, and bear copious rewards when done well. 2000's Voice Brother and Sister and its successor, A Celebratory Arm Gesture, painted glorious, imagistic portraits of a PanSouth in eternal bloom, a fantastical vision that was in some ways better than the real thing for their kindly manipulation of the mind's eye. 2003's Clemency marked a change of direction, ruefully striking towards homogeneous countryrock territory yet managing to avoid cliché with a barrelful of strong melodies. Value Series, Vol. 1: Fool's Gold is a cursory collection of castoffs from the Clemency sessions, and while still uniquely Summer Hymns, it's obvious why these tracks didn't make the final cut. In fact, if not for the serene beauty and unspoilt homeyness of Zachary Gresham's vocals, many of these tracks would fall completely flat, lacking the instrumental variety that fleshed out the band's erstwhile work. The downtrodden Rhodes piano on opener \"Fear the Law\" feels uncharacteristically cagey for a band traditionally so inviting. \"Capsized\" is more familiar, but not as captivating and wellformed as simplistically impressionistic numbers like \"New Underdressment\". All told, the album displays a band caught in flux between a reliable, formulaic approach to songwriting, and an obvious desire to branch out a perilous stage for any group.Fool's Gold's saving grace is Summer Hymns' knack for serving up comfort tunes easily palatable, if prosaic, songs with familiar melodies and unobtrusive orchestration. \"It's Just Not Right\", a rudimentary waltz with a cascading piano melody, and \"Pharmon\", a sly, downhome pop track, seem to prove Summer Hymns, even at their worst, incapable of writing a bad song. \"Crazy Baby\" comes close, but even that track is more of an aside than a song in its 1:17 runtime. Interestingly, the album's two strongest numbers are covers, an exercise for which Summer Hymns hadn't previously shown a penchant. George Harrison's \"Behind That Locked Door\" is an ideal song for the group to interpret, and their version is warmly rife with gilt pedal steel and Gresham's understated yet moving vocals. Meanwhile, a rendition of Johnny Watson's \"It Takes Two\" is slightly more upbeat, shirking the kind of cheekiness that less tactful bands might employ.  Of course, summer is still the best season, and by evoking the unmolested pulchritude of nature at its finest, Summer Hymns win instant sustainability by dint of their production aesthetic alone. Fool's Gold is appreciable if only for offering a reminder of how thoroughly enjoyable Summer Hymns' previous work is, and how essential songs like \"Mr. Brewer (Cackle, Cackle)\" and \"Something's Going On\" are to the inauguration of any successful Memorial Day Weekend in my seaside neighborhood. Unfortunately, spinning Voice Brother and Sister and relishing the greening cusp of summer is about all Fool's Gold compels me to do. Perhaps the forthcoming second volume will fare better in producing the vibrant portraits of summer to which the bandname alludes. If not, I may just have to settle for the real thing.     "}