{"label":" Abduction","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7449/homepage_large.bdf23ad2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Luke Buckman","artist":"Sun City Girls","title":"Carnival Folklore Resurrection 7: Libyan Dream","text":" Once, a few years ago, I comanaged a record store. One day, the owner asked me to put together a section of music devoted to music that no one will ever buy. Apparently, the rest of our stock hadn't collected enough dust, so a new section entitled \"You Won't Buy This, So Go Look at the Reggae\" was devised. Actually, that wasn't his exact request, but this was how it went down: Owner: Luke, this store needs a new section and you're going to put it together. Here's the onestop catalog. Have fun! Me: What kind of music are we talking about here? Owner: Let's see. What are all these wacky hipster kids listening to these days? I know: put together an avantgarde section. Get me some freaky music. I want a section for all those weirdo hipster kids. Got it? Groovilicious. Me: [shrugs] Uh... Owner: Oh, yeah. Try and find something that sounds like somebody dug up a bunch of graves and started beating the skulls together. And then they take apart the skeleton and beat the skulls with the bones from the arms and legs. Amazing! And so it began. I spent the next week circling titles in magazine reviews, scanning music guides, getting feedback from the customers who the owner had deemed \"a little out there,\" and going about this whole project in a state of bewilderment and confusion. I ended up putting together a list of 100 titles for the next order. Somewhere near the bottom was a band I'd heard mentioned a couple of times, always with a look of disgust on the person's face. I'd scribbled near the bottom, \"Sun City Girls  anything you can find,\" and faxed the list to our onestop. Friday came and the first shipment arrived. A handful of titles from that order made it in with the next shipment, one of those being Sun City Girls' Midnight Cowboys from Ipanema. I ripped the shrinkwrap off and stuck it in the disc player. Unbeknownst to me at the time, I was listening to what was widely considered to be the worst release in the Girls' entire catalog. Still, I couldn't help laughing at the atrocious, sloppy covers of \"Fly by Night\" and \"Midnight at the Oasis.\" More SCG titles steadily trickled into the store. No one bought them. Except me. Unleashed almost twenty years ago, the Sun City Girls have reveled in the role of trickster since the very beginning. Comprised of three members (brothers Rick and Alan Bishop, and Charles Gocher Jr.), the band is characterized most easily by their erratic impulsivity. In fact, the one element that has remained constant over the years is their unpredictability. Sure, there have been recurring themes: a heavy bent of MiddleEastern musical tradition and mysticism, demon and goddess obsession (Kali), extended improvisational freakouts, dreadful covers of classic rock standards, infrequent live shows, audience baiting, attempts at breaking down the barriers between performance and art, late60sinspired jazz composition, and campfire psychobabble storytelling. But any attempt at pigeonholing them to a specific genre remains futile. One of America's most prolific and proficient underground bands, the Sun City Girls are a collector's nightmare. It's not just the sheer deluge of releases that has record fiends scouring the used bins; it's the limited availability. After a few initial releases on nowdefunct Placebo Records, the band disappeared from public view and began to unfurl a mountain of cassette releases (sold exclusively at shows or via mailorder) under the tag Cloaven Radio. Resurfacing in 1990 with the vastly underrated Torch of the Mystics, Sun City Girls slowly built a cult following over the subsequent decade. Despite a few scattershot live appearances, an everexpanding catalog, and extensive global traveling, the band has spent the last ten years languishing in relative obscurity. Nevertheless, they've maintained, for all intents and purposes, a fairly high profile recently. In what's purported to be a neverending series of releases, the Bishop & Gocher Girls have (over a 24month span) begun to flood stores with a string of albums under the guise of Carnival Folklore Resurrection, each limited to 1000 copies on the band's own Abduction label. And with eight installations so far, the series shows no signs of slowing down. One of the most recent, Libyan Dream, is a perfect example of the band's ability to cover vastly different musical territories, often within the timeframe of just one track. The seventh disc in the series begins with a burst of brutal guitar and drum buzz as they cover Amboy Dukes' \"Journey to the Center of the Mind\" for the second time in their career. Busting out with trashy guitar solos and the brothers' dueling vocals, it's a raunchy, shameless update of Nugent's original. What follows is a run of tracks encompassing familiar territory for Sun City Girls fans: squealing garage guitar, sprawling, druggedout instrumentals, frenetic MiddleEastern fuzz, an update of \"The Vinegar Stroke\" from Torch of the Mystics, and a few improvisational takes. \"Instantaneous Decisions\" begins with what sounds like MiddleEastern hillbillies chanting over Gocher's endearingly messy drumming, but then unfolds into an angular, jagged display of bass and guitar. Each sudden burst of noise is followed by a series of nonsense squawks and yells from the band members. At times, the track falls apart at the seams; at others, Gocher and Rick Bishop maintain a stunningly open dialogue between guitar and drums. Most of the album, excepting the Amboy Dukes' update and an ode to opium, is instrumental, and it's an astonishing display of the Girls' musical adeptness. \"Sangkala Suite\" is a stunning, sevenplusminute reworking of a traditional Middle Eastern tune that incredibly begins with a riff that sounds lifted by Dean Ween for \"Mr. Would You Please Help My Pony?\" Filled with the transcendent play and musical banter of a band that sounds truly enamored with the music they're making, it's a staggeringly beautiful piece. Unlike many of the other compositions and noise workouts here, \"Sangkala\" comes close to being, dare I say, inviting. What follows are two short tracks the acoustic \"Tavoy Salon\" and the hypercharged Eastern blowup \"Opium Den\" and the amazing, Rick Bishop opus \"Libyan Dream.\" Clocking in at almost fifteen minutes, it's a forum for Bishop's skills. Incorporating styles from across the globe and referencing everything from flamenco to rock to raga, Bishop proves that, contrary to what some have said, the Sun City Girls are no joke. Dismissed for years as a noise outfit, a novelty, and a band incapable of playing their instruments, the elusive girls from Sun City remain surrealist masters of disguise. A career that spans nearly two decades is testament to their ferocious and uncompromising nature. They've done it all, from puerile pranks (Midnight Cowboys from Ipanema) to politically charged rants (Horse Cock Phephner) to campfire hillbilly freakouts (Jack's Creek). Carnival Folklore Resurrection may be an attempt to clean house and empty the vaults, but if this is the bottom of the barrel, the Girls have got me hooked. As the Nuge said so well in \"Journey to the Center of the Mind\": \"Come along if you can, come along if you dare...\" See you in the ticket line. "}