{"label":" Southern Lord","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7461/homepage_large.bb059a5c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Sunn O)))","title":"The GrimmRobe Demos","text":" Holders of doom's most radiant name, Sunn O))) have conversely created the world's most grindingly slow soundscapes since forming as an Earth tribute band in 1998. Transcending the initial plan, Sunn O))) have birthed their own solar system across a number of mindblowing albums. (And due largely to Sunn O)))'s championing and reintroduction of the earlier Seattle drone gods via an even darker approximation of their sound, Earth are having a bit of a revival with a live album recently out on TroubleMan, a remix album, and a new LP forthcoming on Southern Lord.) The lowend of both twosomes has inspired overwrought reviews; considering Sunn O)))'s inky imagery, Julian Cope guest poems, shared songwriting credits from exMelvins/Earth and current Thrones/High on Fire maestro Joe Preston, and sundry Norwegian associates, it makes sense that weighty metaphors are chosen to peg the guitar swarm. For instance, Australian artist Seldon Hunt's \"miasmic visionary text,\" which ably accompanies the reissue of Sunn O)))'s long outofprint The GrimmRobe Demos. Titled \"ODE To THE GRIMMRoBE\", the 10page Maldororian text attempts to recreate the land o' Sunn O))) via free association. As might be expected from an artist who's created artwork for KK Null and Neurosis, Hunt goes to pleasing imagistic extremes. Southern Lord returned the band's startlingly assured debut into print after discovering original copies on sale at eBay for upwards of $90. Recorded live in April 1998, The GrimmRobe Demos were first issues in an edition of 700 CDs by Hydra Head imprint. This new draft was remastered by John Wiese (Man Is The Bastard, Bastard Noise, Sissy Spacek) and includes an extra track, \"Grimm and Bear It\", which first appeared as a vinylonly drone on the doubleLP version of 2001's Flight of the Behemoth. These recordings showcase Stephen O'Malley and Greg Anderson at their most purely distilled. No words are spoken. No samples. No guest poetry. Just heavy fucking sustained resonances. But not going it alone for this particular marathon, exBurning Witch player Stuart Dahlquist ends bass (though, really, everything's kinda bass). Despite guests, Sunn O))) proper remain the offspring of Anderson and O'Malley. Esteemed in the underground world of metal, their family tree couldn't be stronger. Both played in Thorr's Hammer and Burning Witch; O'Malley also moves like molasses in Khanate and the Lotus Eaters. Anderson, who runs Southern Lord records, is in Goatsnake. So what exactly does this stuff sound like? The subtitle on the back of the CD helps: \"doom:power:ambient:drone:invokation\" At the band's Southern Lord home page, it's stated more verbosely: \"The SUNNO))) mission is to create trance like soundscapes with the ultimate low end/bottom frequencies intended to massage the listeners intestines into an act of defecation.\" Now, pretend a Melvins' tune is made of taffy. Stretch it as far as it goes before it breaks. Think of Sleep's monumental Jerusalem leveled to a flatline minus vocals or visible dynamics. Spin Keiji Haino until he's dizzy and then place with sunglasses painted black beneath a starless sky. Something equally slow, but with entirely different instrumentation is the exhilaratingly spare new album Geisterfaust by \"horrorjazz\" quartet Bohren & Der Club of Gore. Across \"Black Wedding\", \"Defeating: Earths' Gravity\", \"Dylan Carlson\" (named for the main songwriter/guitarist in Earth), and the aforementioned \"Grimm and Bear It\" there are no guitar solos. Sunn 0))) is focused on the swarm of the sound scape. Fluctuations exist, but as with hardcore minimalism, you'll have to press yourself into the waves and feel around before pulling out the glistening viscera: \"Black Wedding\" uses more squiggly/oscillating electronics and \"Grimm and Bear It\" features a different resonance/texture and more midrange. It seems a good time to return to Sunn O)))'s formative sounds, especially as we await their newest and most ambitious effort, which includes guest spots by Leviathan and Xasthur's Malefic (vocals recorded inside coffins, which are inside hearses) as well as a cover of Immortal's \"Cursed Realms of the Winter Demons\". Recently playing live shows with Attila Csihar, Tos Neiwenhuizen, and Oren Ambarchi as part of the robeandhood crew, the band promises the new work will be their darkest and heaviest yet. I'm really not sure how these dudes can top what they've done thus far, but OK Sunn O))), bring it on. "}