{"label":" VHF","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7468/homepage_large.c6b2560b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Sunroof!","title":"Cloudz","text":" Matthew Bower, the body behind England's Sunroof!, seems unusually preoccupied with staving off redundancy: Cloudz is not only markedly different from his earlier records, it's also an album so internally varied that it feels almost genreless, coyly hopping from ambient ooze to craggy noise to thick, droning waves of guitar. Considering Bower's ample discography as an avantnoise artist, it was once reasonable to accuse him of cribbing an agenda from his moldcracking predecessors (see: Rhys Chatham, Glenn Branca, La Monte Young). But no matter how heavily annotated his previous work may have been, Cloudz is a stubbornly contemporary record, taking its cues from modern technology and aesthetics. For those familiar with Bower's former experiments, both as Sunroof! and with his old band Skullflower, Cloudz may seem like a shockingly docile departure, without a single hike into harsh, bleating, feedbackheavy noise. Instead, Bower serves pretty halfmelodies and blurry, predawn beats, sketching a vague, meandering, halflit landscape. Even at its most aggressive, Cloudz is still far more gentle and inviting than anything else Bower has done, and while the sudden shift into tranquility (slyly hinted at on the second disc of 2002's Bliss) might perplex some longtime fans, it also backhandedly suggests that Bower's frame of reference has finally expanded to include some of his current dronerpeers (see: the easy atmospherics of Labradford or Stars of the Lid). Appropriately, each song on Cloudz has been designated its own \"cloud,\" qualified only by a corresponding track number. Ultimately, Bower's additional nomenclature is almost laughably unnecessary, considering that these compositions evoke more than enough white, wispy images all on their own. Cloud One, the buoyant \"Machine\", layers loads of smooth, chirping bleeps (including samples of twittering birds) over a soft piano line, each tone just sweet enough to sound vaguely celestial, building nearly ten minutes of peaceable, meandering light. \"Viva\" mixes in bits of crank and crunch; \"Tornado Rose Canoe\" is packed with Bower's classic guitar squeal, including a big, sweaty electric solo. While occasionally mesmerizing, Cloudz is still more effective in theory than it is in practice. Extended exposure quickly reveals the gaps in his matrix: Bower's aggressive pursuit of diversity, while not necessarily responsible for an inherently disjointed product, does break the sense of cohesion and atmospherics that's necessary for these sorts of albums to function well over time. By opting for internal tension over cohesion, Bower takes a big gamble with our attention spans that, while admirable, doesn't fully pay off. "}