{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7484/homepage_large.ff5a8482.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Derek Miller","artist":"Super Furry Animals","title":"Phantom Phorce","text":" Super Furry Animals showed their first grey hairs on last year's Phantom Power. It wasn't quite a Humbert Humbert freakout, but the signs of aging had finally become visible. For me and if you check the archives here you'll find the opposing point wellrepresented Phantom Power showed a band giving into time. Continuously pushing boundaries throughout their decadelong run, it seemed the band had finally worn themselves out, and maybe grown a bit too content with their resting place. A fullfledged return from the polyester soul nadir of Rings Around the World, Power saw the band massaging their trademarked Beach Boys glow into pastoral psychedelics and warm, salty epics. But even so, its moments of unbridled experimentation and musical excursions were far less common than on their masterpiece, 1999's Guerilla. The tackedon electronic bewitchery at the end of \"The Piccolo Snare\" exemplified the change: In contrast to its fellow album cuts, it was detectably forced just a tossedoff nugget for the techheads that SFA has always depended on. So, following Phantom Power, perhaps it's only proper for a band so dependent on rebirth to allow others a chance to succeed where they've failed: in distorting the past. First released last year on their own Placid Casual label, Phantom Phorce is narrated by Kurt Stern, the original's executive producer. Using glib allusions to fictional turmoil during the recording sessions complete with a reference to the whole debacle eventually appearing in Mojo Stern attempts to fuse these very separate, individual tracks together into a cohesive whole. Unfortunately, he gets in the way more than he helps, and by album's end, you're likely to consider redubbing it without his contributions. Though far less dynamic than its predecessors, Phantom Power was still home to a number of remarkable soundbytes, which offered this record's remixers plenty of manipulable material through which to embolden the original works, yet also retain the Furries' signature wit. Killa Kela turns \"Golden Retriever\" into a spastic funk jam, chokedup with thudding glitchbeats and carnivorous beatboxing. High Llamas rebuild \"Valet Parking\" as a Beatlesque symphony, sifting past soft DayGlo flutes and clouded strings, and channeling four orchestral transitions. Perhaps the best cutandpaster of the lot, Four Tet, applies his applecoring talents to \"The Piccolo Snare\", so that the resulting track stumbles on funky, lockstep rhythms and a repeated chimeloop to combine the moonlightboxed psychedelics of his own work with the plump grace of the original. Yet, when the remix artists lose track of the Furries' source material, the results often bear more resemblance to faceless IDM than any of the band's untreated songs. Wauvenfold's take on \"Sex, War and Robots\" falls in love with its own glitchcutting, and winds up a jarring, unrecognizable mess that makes the most frenzied Mouse on Mars' tracks seem tame by comparison. Likewise, Mego noise terrorist Massimo's \"Venus and Serena\" ditches every scrap of the original song except slight vocal fragments, falling flat with gurgling electro beats and a grinding guitar. Any song titled after America's favorite tennis twins can't afford to lose that sense of humor. Here, Massimo freezes it into a Martian soundscape, and thus allows it to escape his grasp in an unremarkable skyjacking. In the end, how much you make of Phantom Phorce will be related to your love for Super Furry Animals. It's the burden most remix albums have to bear. To hear the group's material tweaked into schizophrenic tantrums and hymns to the echolalia of technology is certainly worth enduring the album's more watereddown inclusions even Kurt Stern's boring narration. Plus, there's always the hope that seeing their material in the hands of some of the world's young contortionists might prove to be just the jolt the Furries need to send them back into the throes of prime creativity. But then, does anyone really want to hear them as inspired by Boom Bip? "}