{"label":" American Patchwork","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7490/homepage_large.22d16099.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jascha Hoffman","artist":"Super Madrigal Brothers","title":"Shakestation","text":" It's 1538, your parents just left the castle for the night, and you're bored as all hell. Some Joust on the old Atari? Cartridge busted. Then maybe it's time to throw on the new Super Madrigal Brothers album: Real Renaissance music played by a deranged company of vintage video game systems. Wailing Gameboys mourn the loss of their queen in a sorrowful choir of triangle waves, chivalrous joysticks court a fair Apple IIc with baroque blorps and bleeps; early Nintendo cartridges mount and prepare for righteous, quantized battle against Sega's Master System armada. Why does it all seem so damn congruous? Young Oliver Cobol and Sir Fashion Flesh hadn't met facetoface until a week before they took Shakestation on tour. Introduced by a common collaborator (American Patchwork founder Momus, whose fakefolk irony is fully evident on this effort), the duo produced their album by swapping files and instant messaging. First, they get inside each song and play it like a video game, yielding a shimmering oncethrough complete with a silly perc track. Then, with a long and wacky remix, the same song is ripped to pieces. If the straight take is a game level as it's meant to be played, then its remix is that same level played by your palsied kid brother on a melted cartridge with an erratic power supply. Its pristine veneer is subjected to a series of cruel cuts and modulations, wild loops and inversions, and sometimes an outright invasion of foreign tones or samples. This is like constructing a dollhouse by hand in order to experiment on it with your own private arsenal of natural disasters a ridiculous enterprise, but potentially a revealing one. Put another way, when Barney the Purple Dinosaur goes through the wood chipper, you see not only scraps of his costume, but slices of the man inside. Likewise, in destroying the total artifice of these straitjacketed renditions, the remixes sometimes bring out a lilting, modern feel that the straight versions had concealed. For instance, the remix of \"Gagliardia Venezia\" takes a bland instrumental piece and vicegrips it in a giant George Foreman Grill of the mind. The result smothers you with analog resonance, spatters digital clip all over you, and melts in your skull, not in your ears. Make no mistake, inhabiting the sound world of Shakestation for a whole 75 minutes is a truly grating experience. I understand that limited range, uniform tone colors, and plastic beats are all part of the game, but the childish, almost autistic glee that makes the whole project so pleasurable is also its biggest flaw. This music seems to truly ignore the human life on the receiving end, and forces you to approach it on Nintendo terms: Space is preplanned and onedirectional, time is exact and exacting except you have no character to control. Like watching someone play video games, it only stays fun if you're high. Though their website claims they're gallant timetravelers currently residing in Elizabethan England, it's clear that the Brothers' first priority is to plunder the great machines of the recent past. In other words, they're looking for obsolete songs to hang their cool video games sounds on. But why Renaissance music? Well, that's an open question. Certainly not because they're trying to understand it on its own terms that's clear from the stilted phrasing and the almost total absence of polyphony. When it comes to tone color, there's a certain match: A melody written to exploit the nasal timbre of a sackbutt or krumhorn sounds pretty good on a square wave. Or maybe the Brothers understand that early music evolved as an elite hobby, just like video games, and are trying to exploit this parallel. Nah. Could it be that their selfimposed technical limitations give them a sense of solidarity with the Renaissance composers they cover? Without access to the brute force or layered textures of a symphony orchestra, these composers had to make do with a musical language that worked for small groups of strings and voices, so they interwove melodies to create a fantastic sense of line and motion. Likewise, video games haven't always come with their own box set soundtracks. Early Ataris had no background music whatsoever (they barely had sound effects!) and Nintendo composers had very strict memory requirements to meet. These technical restrictions actually made for some great work, which is easy to forget when you hear the latest techno remix of Tetris, or the latest philharmonic recording of Vivaldi, for that matter. But Shakestation succeeds when it sticks to an old rap axiom, which states that the classics shouldn't be revived as naïve covers or dancefloor soupups, but mercilessly mined, twisted, and mixed together again. "}