{"label":" Arena Rock","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7499/homepage_large.7afd0802.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Superdrag","title":"Last Call for Vitriol","text":" Superdrag kicked off their career in high gear with a solid debut of laserfocused fuzzpop dripping in melodies that stayed with you like burrs on a hiker. Their sophomore album, 1997's excellent Head Trip in Every Key, delivered almost fully on their potential, expanding their sound in multiple directions from crystalline ballads to sitarfueled epics while tying it all together with songs most rock bands would kill to have written. So why is it that since that album, they've shoehorned themselves back into the tight fit of their debut? Continually retreating into their fuzzy pop sound (which, admittedly, they've pretty much mastered by this point), Superdrag have put all their eggs in a basket too small they live and die on the strength of their hooks. Do they deliver? Pretty much, as their choruses will absolutely spear you. But are these enough to carry the whole album? I wish I could say yes. For one thing, the band's verses frequently aren't as strong as the choruses, and very often resort to cheap couplets pulled from Roget's Rhyming Dictionary. In fact, principle songwriter John Davis leads off the album with the lines, \"She is one in a billion/ With lips of vermilion.\" Thankfully, \"Baby Goes to Eleven\" is blessed with a melody about as good as they come, so you barely notice the lazy rhyming as the band backslaps you into the amazing chorus and never looks back. Superdrag stick with the basic sound for the album's entire first half, and at first, it seems like it's going to work. \"I Can't Wait\" rocks, and hard, too. The band even snares you early with some hardhitting vocal hooks. The song also finds room for a guitar solo, a fine source of rock pleasure that most bands just don't seem to be down with these days. \"The Staggering Genius\" is the first sign that the band isn't headed for any new horizons, whipping out what may as well be labeled \"Superdrag Basic Track #2.\" It's the kind of fuzzy riff that's fueled at least a dozen of their songs in the past, which is all well and good, I suppose, since at this early point in the record, you haven't had much of a chance to grow tired of it. \"So Insincere\" pulls the tempo back, but fails to change the sound at all, and the song is considerably less interesting than what comes before it. After the pleasant \"ExtraSensory,\" with its simple harmonies and clean guitar jangle, the quartet bangs out another great tune, \"Feeling Like I Do,\" which mines the exact same territory they've been hiding out in since the mid90s. Great tunes are a plus for any band, but some sort of deviation in sound even a slight one might be cool once in a while. The need for deviation doesn't come only in the overall sound, though. There's this chord progression that John Davis really seems to like, and it's smeared all over \"Way Down Here Without You.\" I can count several other Superdrag songs off the top of my head that use this same progression as a background hook, and that's just kind of tiresome. Aside from that, however, the song is pretty tight, falling toward the cleaner end of the Superdrag spectrum. Oddly, the album makes its biggest misstep with its clearest attempt at variety. \"Safe and Warm\" sounds so much like a mid70s Eagles ballad that no shit it had me looking for the Glenn Frey cowrite credit. Nope, just bassist Sam Powers who, incidentally, turns in two of the album's strongest numbers late in the game: the powerful, sticky rockers \"Remain Yer Strange\" and \"Stu.\" These songs, with their slightly different (but no less catchy) melodic and compositional styles are a breath of fresh air, as Davis' craft is almost too consistent. \"Remain Yer Strange,\" in particular, ranks as one the record's best songs. The title of \"Her Melancholy Tune\" basically describes the song, which sounds an awful lot like Head Trip's \"She Is a Holy Grail.\" Closer \"Drag Me Closer to You\" moves into bluesier territory and winds up sounding like something that might have cropped up as a Badfinger album track. That's not necessarily a bad thing (er, necessarily), but it's also the least catchy thing here, and as a result it feels somewhat anticlimactic bringing up the rear. So what Superdrag have given us is essentially the same thing they've been giving us for most of their career. And this is my dilemma: how important is the fact that this band hasn't really taken their music anywhere new on this album? It certainly doesn't make the songs any worse, and at face value, Last Call for Vitriol is a good record from a seasoned band that writes melodies like haberdashers make hats. This makes the second album in a row on which Superdrag has failed to evolve as a band, and there's a bit of tragedy in that wasted potential. So here's what I'll say: fans of Superdrag will like this, provided they're okay with more of the same; newcomers should proceed directly to their first two albums and decide if they want to go from there. "}