{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7512/homepage_large.4cc63c18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Surface of Eceon","title":"The King Beneath the Mountain","text":" Olympia's new Strange Attractors Audio House is off to a great start. The label's third release was last year's underlooked Oceanless by Landing, a swirling maelstrom of harsh feedback and delicate guitar melody that was a worthy addition to the dronerock canon. Now, Strange Attractors has followed the Landing release with this equally fine debut record by Surface of Eceon, a unit composed of three members from Landing and guitarist/vocalist Adam Forkner of Yume Bitsu. As one would expect from a band made up of \\xBE of an existing group, Surface of Eceon shares many qualities with Landing. Though vocals play a slightly larger role here (two songs have complete verses, if no choruses), the longish pieces are still mainly epic guitar instrumentals laced with impressionistic percussion, analog synth drones, and every conceivable kind of effects unit. And though this album is stuffed with psychedelicdreamdrone ear candy, the sound coating would mean little if the band were not so accomplished melodically. \"The Open Sea\" opens the album and immediately reveals a kinship to Landing and Yume Bitsu. A chiming guitar sketches out the chords as the song gains momentum. An almost unnervingly clear voice sings a spare melody, revealing Surface of Eceon's songoriented bent, but the voice disappears as the guitars fall in and the chord changes become movements between massive walls of sound. Classic shoegazers like Lush are an obvious reference point, but the structure of the melody and the quality of the voice remind me of Low (with an explosive psychedelic backdrop). \"Silence Beheads Us\" is a beautifully paced track of fertile, dripping wet drone. Tentative feedback gurgles set a placid mood that never leaves, though frayed seams of distortion weave in and out as the track progresses. Fans of Windy and Carl looking for something looser with a slightly more prickly edge take note. \"The Grasshopper King\" is the rockingist track, with a bouncy rhythm and The King Beneath the Mountain's lone riff, a happy guitar pattern overflowing with feedback and joy. The jamout nature of \"The Grasshopper King\" is true to the Surface of Eceon aesthetic, as most of these tracks were birthed from lengthy improvisations. Unfortunately, the jam aesthetic betrays Surface of Eceon on one occasion, the sloppy and poorly recorded \"Council of the Locusts.\" Though this track boasts an impressive cache of dark energy, the guitars meander aimlessly and never congeal. The band does redeem themselves, however, on the 16minute closer \"Ascension to the Second Tier of the Outer Plane of Dryystn (Ecyeon)\" (uh, so yeah, there may have been some drugs taken somewhere along the way here), much of which is gorgeous ambient guitar work in the Fripp/Eno vein. Altogether, The King Beneath the Mountain is a riveting collection of textured guitar noise. "}