{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7513/homepage_large.67d6d5ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Surface of Eceon","title":"Dragyn","text":" Surface of Eceyon (that's some of Landing working with Yume Bitsu's Adam Forkner heretofore known simply as Surface of Eceon) has a troubling weakness for D&D; mysticism. Their debut album, The King Beneath the Mountain, laid out a band mythology of an insect kingdom called Eceon where, if I understand correctly, I am a moth person (that would explain the attraction to bright lights) in some sort of bent narrative involving grasshopper royalty. Fortunately, on the surface of this place Eceon, as indicated on the sleeve, \"time and energy are blurred into a beautiful landscape of sound,\" which is definitely an idea I can get with. The story of the album is told instrumentally for the most part, through dreamy sheets of feedback and gurgling drones, so even though I parted ways with fantasy literature 20 years ago, I can follow.The band's second album is Dragyn (as in, \"dragon\"), and it continues the tale, I guess. This time, there's actually a short prose narrative on the inside of the record dealing with Tussyans and Sephryns and assorted other Magic starterdeck rejects. I haven't read the story yet, and I doubt I ever will, but it's there if you're wondering what happens next. The extent of my interest in all this is that place where \"time and energy blur,\" so I'm going to talk about the sound.Though it definitely sounds like the same band as last time around, the feel of Dragyn is considerably different darker, spacier, more abstract. Dragyn was apparently assembled Canstyle from recordings of extensive band improvisation; when walking the improv wire, Surface of Eceyon has a tense and restless vibe. There are no vocals this time, and the warmth of a song like the debut's \"The Open Sea\" is missed. What Dragyn delivers best is some effective passages of atmosphere, where three and four instruments combine seamlessly into pulsing whole.\"Council Is Called\" is a nice example of the band working together to lock into a mood rather than a groove. The track is built on a keyboard drone, around which several guitars spin synchronous webs of sound, the echoing series of notes playing off each other, accented by the occasional cymbal wash. It reminds me a bit of Spacemen 3's Recurring in the way simple guitar tones and space do a huge amount of emotional work. \"Victory of Ice and Magyk\" is much more acidic, with distantly wahwahing rhythm guitars from the early fusion school playing off an overdriven lead that imparts an edge of fried psychedelia. Both are engaging and reward careful listening.Owing to their improvisatory origins, many tracks fade in and out almost randomly, and sometimes the abrupt transitions are jarring. But when they leave the scissors in the drawer, as on the 19minute closer \"Freeing the Winds\", you understand why they edit: it's a track with a few great moments and a number of dull ones. This patchy, haphazard character puts Dragyn a notch below the band's debut. Sometimes, you feel like you're listening to a solid practice jam rather than a recording to return to frequently.\"Over Land and Ice\" is Dragyn at its best. It fades up gradually, but rather than seeming like an edit from a longer session, the song feels like the musical equivalent of a Polaroid photograph developing before your eyes. The ringing guitar pattern dominating the song's first section is pretty much pure joy translated into six strings, and the gauzy coziness of the accompanying rhythm part reminds me of when Duster used to get the guitar tone just right. Even as these connections unravel over the tune's 11 minutes (this is a sixtrack, hourlong record), \"Over Land and Ice\" retains its uplifting feel. As long as the band's collective jams occasionally lead somewhere this satisfying, I'll put up with the firebreathing mushrooms. "}