{"label":" Force Inc","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7515/homepage_large.e6034e02.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Sutekh","title":"Incest Live","text":" To my ears, Sutekh's debut fulllength, periods.make.sense, was very average. Occasionally when I'm scanning the S section of my collection I'll think to myself, \"Oh yeah, I have the first record by Sutekh, that guy Seth Horvitz from San Francisco who hangs out with Kit Clayton.\" And then I think, \"Right, so. what else do I have here...\" There were some interesting moments on periods.make.sense and a good track or two, but I pretty much tuned Sutekh out after giving it a dozen spins. There's so much music to hear these days much more music than time that a hohum debut is all it takes to be removed from my list. So I missed Fell, which I kept hearing was quite good, and after hearing Sutekh's second release of last year, called Incest Live, I certainly believe it. Simply put, the progression from periods.make.sense to Incest Live is astounding. On the former, Sutekh sounded like just another practitioner of glitchridden, dubby techno, one without any sort of definable sonic signature, and the way the record alternated between the uptempo 4/4 tracks and dull ambient washes killed any sort of momentum. Incest Live, on the other hand, is pretty much a model record in terms of overall structure and pacing, and there's more to absorb every time you hear it. Despite the title, this not a live album. Instead, Incest Live was constructed using the techniques Sutekh uses for his live sets, drastic realtime manipulation of existing tracks from all of his records. I can't say how any of these bits and pieces might differ from their counterparts on Fell or his many twelveinches, but I do know that whatever elements remain from periods.make.sense are transformed so radically (and improved in the process) as to make them effectively new pieces. In any case, Incest most obviously mimics a live album in the way it segues seamlessly from one segment to the next. It sounds like it could be an excellent DJ mix it has a real arc and story to it, but the tracks are all Sutekh. With fifteen distinct tracks spread out over about 44 minutes, Incest Live has a lot of variety. Though beats dominate, Sutekh approaches his \"set\" here like someone who wants to squeeze a maximum number of ideas into his allotted time. Odd ringing sounds will appear for the first time 2/3 of the way through one track and then form the hook of the next. The ageold mixer trick of dropping the track out repeatedly on the beat is thrown in. Fifteen seconds of a piano sonata will surface from nowhere only to disappear again into the static fog. There's a lot of sound to digest, but Sutekh makes it easy. Above all, Incest Live is danceable. Some of the beats veer toward house, others are classic techno, and then in more cluttered passages they take on an almost tribal, neoindustrial flavor, but the important thing is that you want to keep moving. The way the tracks maintain such a sense of funky propulsion while managing to incorporate about 58,782 different squiggly computer noises is amazing, and it makes me wonder if this is what Autechre might have sounded like had they gone in a dance direction instead of disappearing up their own assholes (it should be said that they still do some interesting things up there occasionally). As demonstrated here on Track 7 (no song titles), Sutekh has a real skill in taking a seemingly random assemblage of glitches, clicks, taps, and banging noises and wrapping them around a killer bassline, allowing them to come together as something soulful and, dare I say it, catchy. Next time you want to spend \\xBE of an hour listening to beatdriven IDM you could do a hell of a lot worse. "}