{"label":" Southern","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7532/homepage_large.89c7ebfc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brendan Reid","artist":"Sweep the Leg Johnny","title":"Going Down Swingin'","text":" Dojo inventory: Is there pain in this dojo? No, Sensei. Is there fear in this dojo? No, Sensei. Hold up let's put the pain and fear aside for a moment and talk music. Is there a saxophone in this dojo? What about a couple guitars, an electric bass, and drums? And jazzinfluenced, mostly instrumental rock compositions? What about those? Word up, Sensei. You know your dojo. Yes, Sensei, there is postrock in this dojo. This postrock comes courtesy of the five members of Sweep the Leg Johnny, a veteran group drawing influence from King Crimson and Ornette Coleman, and drawing comparisons to June of 44. All dropped names contain valid indicators of the Sweep sound: noisy, progressive, potent, avantgarde. Had I not told you that, however, and maybe even in spite of it, you might be drawing comparisons to other, less reputable artists; the Mighty Mighty Bosstones come to mind, for example, as do a wealth of mediocre hardcore bands. Sweep has been an active touring combo ever since their inception in 1996, logging over 725 shows in that period. All the action didn't take place without some success. Sweep gained a reputation as an energetic, hardcharging live act, one that always made sure to keep the power in postrock. It's safe to say they still have that mindset you hear it in the first 20 seconds of \"Sometimes My Balls Feel Like Tits\" (reviewer attempts to hold straight face), which takes a middleeastern flavored sax lick and tears it to shreds with a cascade of guitar rage. Problems, however, surface early. Like the \"Tits\" track for all of the volume, all of the power, there isn't much guts to the riffage. It's definitely a cerebral jam. Nothing in the guitars, drums or sax grab anything corporeal. Not ass, not balls, not viscera. Instead, it attempts to torch the ears while aiming at the analytical center, the brain. But as technically complex and interesting as this may be to Sweep, it is not all that interesting to the listener. As a matter of fact, the \"rock hard to stuff that doesn't really rock at all\" approach can provide quite a bit of frustration. Bring in classically halfassed postrock vocals, as on \"Only in a Rerun\", and you unfortunately get more of the same. The vocals take a relaxed, jazzy feel, and the progression plods along with an uncomfortable, mathematical form, sounding like Zorn's Masada, but with less funk. It grinds, though, and pores over itself, with crunchy metallic guitar tones and frenetic drumming complementing the modal alto sax lines. But in the end, it's unsatisfying. All the amplification in world can't make up for a lack of soul, providing more proof that some genres just don't rock. Is there aggravation in this dojo? Yes, Sensei. I say give it the body bag. "}