{"label":" Cutting Edge","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7536/homepage_large.6b93405c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"Matthew Sweet","title":"Kimi Ga Suki","text":" In 2003's multimedia penpal exchange program with Japan we ostensibly came out a little ahead, as Sofia Coppola expertly borrowed from a potent mix of ancient Japanese culture and kaleidoscopic urban Tokyo's American popculture obsession to stage one of the year's most moving films. With an equally celebrated cultstatus reception, the land of the samurai has embraced a number of American musical exports over the years, hosting a list of artists ranging from vital to virtually defunct among them, the sugary guitarpop of Matthew Sweet. Kimi Ga Suki is a requited return to form of the love affair, and sports the original lineup that spawned his swan song. Originally crafted as a Japanonly release, the album has since deservedly been released domestically. The time constraints placed on the production left Sweet with little room to foul up the effort with excess nursing or overwrought sonicmanagement, a problem that's sullied his most recent releases. Opener \"Dead Smile\"'s rousing chorus and buoyant melody molds a perfect pop anthem; simple and poignant, it represents everything maturated talent can and should positively yield. Sweet's unpolluted execution even forgives the delivery of such secondlanguage crafted lines (\"You can't hide/ The rotten in your soul/ Cold as ice/ Hot as burning coal\"). Most of the record plays to Sweet's strengths as a songwriter, as he spins timeless pop melodies that unravel with ease and retire before they grow too stale. \"I Don't Want to Know\" and \"Love Is Gone\" exemplify Sweet at his best; as the latter Big Star battleshipsinker overlaps crisp vocal harmonies, while gamboling across a simple, crestfallen acoustic framework. Unfortunately, \"I Love You\" drags with a little sonic excess, but the same seed, properly nurtured, reaps its rewards in \"Spiral\" by simply staying shy of the twominute mark. Thankfully, Sweet keeps most of the songs right where they belong hovering in and around three minutes. True, there's little in the way of deftly pioneering material, but Sweet's never been one to shirk his influences, as his sound, both modern and classic, rests fitfully in the gray area between innovation and mimicry without really offering an insult to either camp. Closer \"Through Your Eyes\" even comes off as an understrung Ted Leo number, only you can't tell who influenced who, nor does it seem to matter. It's a fitting end to an album that reaffirms Sweet's popchartering snap, not only across the sea but also amongst America's finest. "}