{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7554/homepage_large.a9d72044.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Sybarite","title":"Placement Issues","text":" Xian Hawkins (aka Sybarite), formerly of the Silver Apples, makes music that works well in the background. He takes electronic production techniques (a loop here, a glitch there), splices in a healthy mix of acoustic instrumentation (guitar, piano, some light strings), and takes most of the edge off in the mix. That Hawkins plays it cool isn't a criticism, though. In fact, if you go by the praise of recent releases by Boards of Canada or Fennesz, it might very well be a recommendation. If only Placement Issues were as consistently interesting as the music of those artists, I could extend that praise to Sybarite.Placement Issues is actually a collection of all of Sybarite's singles to this point, taken from various EPs (1999's Meusic and 2000's Otonomy) and seveninch releases. Conventional logic says that singles collections don't hold up as albums in the same way as proper LPs, but Sybarite shoots down this wisdom with his consistency in production and the fact that many of his tunes share similar moods. It's not that all of his music sounds the same, though you'd be forgiven for not picking up on the fact not all of the tunes were recorded at the same time, for the same project. Many of these tracks would fit perfectly into a film: \"Second Cities,\" with that patented Boards of Canada smooth groove and light acoustic guitar, might figure prominently into a pensive midnight driving scene around downtown Los Angeles. \"Otonomy\" retains the pensive mood and guitar, but subdues the atmosphere for a misty nostalgia. Sybarite's apparent fondness for consonance and rounded edges may put off those looking for something more tart, though his knack for melody and efficient arrangements is impressive enough that, at its best, this music works well beyond any cinematic backdrop. \"Square One\" is a particularly engaging example of how relatively traditional sound design and minimal harmonic coloring can be used to great effect. The highpitched, stuttering rhythm (something like a stopwatch accompanied by a triangle) underscores a repetitive, mournful guitar figure, while various subtle glitches work their way in and out of the mix. As good soundtrack music doesn't distract from the images onscreen, it's not hard to picture this bit of finery supporting a vigorous session of daydreaming. Not everything works as well in a supportive function: \"Unforced Force of the Truth\" features an uptempo, shuffling beat, distorted just enough to stand out on an album full of airtight programming. The slightly angular guitar line (which wouldn't sound out of place on a Tortoise record) is joined by moderately searing synth and a discordant whistling chord floating over the electronic ensemble. \"The Sweep\" is smooth enough, except for the omnipresent, staticy effect that fills in every empty space in the tune. The analog drum machine pulse reminds me of early Mouse on Mars, though the noise quotient is more along the lines of Fennesz. And if the looped guitars that open \"Without Engagement\" sound a little too similar to those that open \"Engaged,\" well, they should they're the same guitars. The pitfall in records like Placement Issues is not in the individual moments, but rather in the difficulty of keeping the moments distinct as you listen to the entire record. After an hour or so of atmospheric synthesizers and smooth beats, my ears start to wilt a bit, though I'm sure any one of these tunes could hit the spot under the right circumstances. Sybarite's got a knack for nailing the moment, and if you don't mind the fact many of the moments share moods, Placement Issues works. "}