{"label":" Virgin","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7560/homepage_large.c8c8d33e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"David Sylvian","title":"Camphor","text":" Pitchfork's thinking person's male crooner continuum places David Sylvian not so very far from the male crooner who guards the righthand extremity of the continuum, Scott Walker. Sitting on the lefthand extremity is Bono, nearby him Peter Gabriel, Marc Almond, Lou Reed, Gavin Friday, and the Laughing Gnome himself, David Bowie. Sylvian is clearly indebted to Bowie. His previous band, Japan, mined Bowie's glam and Berlin periods and derived some memorable songs. Sylvian thinks of himself as more than a pop star and leader of a longdefunct new wave band; he's an artistinsound, luvvie, and he's going out of his way to prove he could be more of an egghead than Brian Eno if he really wanted to be. As last year's twodisc retrospective Everything and Nothing demonstrated, David Sylvian has always strived to experiment and to challenge his audience. Without resorting to Scott Walker's allusive abstractions, Sylvian takes banal sentiments and, through quirky metaphor or idiosyncratic musical arrangement, never fails to distinguish himself. However, the watchword here is 'experiment.' Sylvian's back catalog is more interesting, to my ears, for its lush failures rather than its successes. And no question that Everything and Nothing and now Camphor, its instrumental companion abounds in fascinating imperfections. Sylvian is capable of achieving flawlessness. As I noted in my review of Everything and Nothing, his song \"Ghosts\" has every right to ascend to the canonical status of standard. It would take a brave singer to start the trend, but as Dave Douglas and Susana Baca have both attempted to make a case for Björk's \"Unison\" and \"The Anchor Song\" to be as widely performed as unworthy material, it's not inconceivable that someone might have a go. Flawlessness is not Sylvian's goal. If it were, he'd repeat \"Ghosts\" over and over again. Rather, in order to further his pretensions to art, Sylvian has bought into an aesthetic dualism that Leonard Cohen summed up succinctly with the line, \"There's a crack in everything, that's how the light gets in.\" For Sylvian, true beauty must have a flaw. Camphor sure has flaws, but it also possesses instances of true beauty, too. Drawn from his solo as well as his collaborative works, the cerebral instrumentals that comprise Camphor mark Sylvian's consistent voyage through acoustic soundworlds. Where others would content themselves with the sonic equivalent of CGI, Sylvian means to take fresh approaches using sometimes centuriesold instruments. Of course, unlike some unknown or obscure manipulator of soundfiles, Sylvian's reputation affords him the time and luxury to ask Bill Frisell, Marc Ribot, Robert Fripp, Ryuichi Sakamoto, Talvin Singh, Mark Isham, Nils Petter Molvaer, and sundry members of Can to drop by the studio for a spell. And the folks at Virgin Records kindly obliged when confronted with the bill for studio time.Camphor opens with \"All My Mothers' Names\" and Marc Ribot performing a Robert Fripp impersonation of John McLaughlin's Inner Mounting Flame period while Ryuichi Sakamoto dapples on his Rhodes piano in deft approximation of sameera Jan Hammer. The jagged guitar work will disrupt wherever this track is placed, and in its original context on the Dead Bees on a Cake album, \"All My Mothers' Names\" really got on my tits. But acting as an overture on Camphor, the track epitomizes Sylvian's wantonly brainiac and sometimes misguided fusion of awkwardness and serenity. In this capacity, if you can appreciate the track jags and all, you'll find the thirteen other tracks far easier going. \"Red Earth (As Summertime Ends)\" is placid in comparison. Taken from the sole Rain Tree Crow album (essentially a Japan reunion in all but name), the track is a mildly Afrofunk ambient piece, not so dissimilar to the second half of Brian Eno's and David Byrne's My Life in the Bush of Ghosts. Also from Rain Tree Crow, \"New Moon at Red Deer Wallow\" blends curious bass clarinet lines with callandresponse percussion. The effect is similar to that which Jon Hassell and Eno achieved on their highly influential Possible Worlds album. In addition to remixes of previously released tracks, Camphor features two new songs. Both \"The Song Which Gives the Key to Perfection\" and \"Praise (Pratah Smarami)\" display Sylvian's devotion to Hinduism. Sylvian's vocals on the former are some of the most heartfelt and restrained I've ever heard from him, and the instrumentation he chooses to set them in is movingly unadorned. It's such a pity that the accompanying booklet offers no translation of the lyrics I'd love to know what wisdom inspired his reverence. Sylvian gives equally Spartan accompaniment to \"Praise (Pratah Smarami),\" featuring Shree Maa, a guru whose devotees consider an embodiment of the Hindu mother goddess, Durga. Sylvian surrounds her mournful inflections with soft sheets of ambience, akin to those that he and Holger Czukay used on their musthave 1988 blissful lament Plight and Premonition. As obnoxious counterpoint to the simple elegance of \"Praise (Pratah Smarami),\" \"Big Wheels in Shanty Town\" is Frankie Goes to Hollywood's Welcome to the Pleasuredome prepared for the WOMAD crowd. \"The Healing Place\" (excerpted from Gone to Earth) approximates the plaintive grandeur of \"Ghosts\" with Bill Nelson's guitar replacing Sylvian's sorrowfulopulent vocals. Yet, once again obeying his doctrine that for every success he must stump up a lush lapse of judgment, Sylvian plunges Camphor into ineptitude with the title track. Here, he gives his dilettantish take on glitch, and Fennesz or Stefan Betke he's not. He gloms, stutters and rips to his trademark moody ambience without understanding the wealth of expression that glitches can afford. \"Camphor\" spins around asking, \"Isn't this what the youngsters are doing?\" and all the listener can do is gape at the incoherent coalescence of sounds. By rerecording the vocals for Everything and Nothing, Sylvian went part way to impose a unity of performance on compositions drawn from many periods in his career. And by remixing a few of the tracks here, Sylvian's attempting a similar trick for Camphor. Unfortunately, the almost unnoticeable tweaks to the remixed tracks don't force a new stylistic continuity that would dupe listeners into considering this record worthwhile. Therefore, I'm left to conclude that Camphor is very much a flawed digest of Sylvian's moody experiments. If purchased as a gateway to Sylvian's catalog, it'll lead you to far more significant records. Otherwise, this scattered selection will leave you wondering if Pitchfork's thinking person's crooner male continuum is guilty of producing an egregiously false positive result. "}