{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7576/homepage_large.be162830.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Subarachnoid Space","title":"Also Rising","text":" Subarachnoid Space make longattentionspan rock for a shortattentionspan world. I don't envy them this task, attempting to keep the MTV generation from mentally wandering afield while they build their dense, slowly shifting textures from the ground up, relying only on slowly morphing dynamics to provide interest without any of the instant gratification provided by, say, melodies or riffs. Music like this is an old story by now it's the same formula Mogwai used to make your blood rush on Young Team, and the one King Crimson used to make your blood curdle on Starless & Bible Black. And while the San Francisco foursome never approach the heights those bands have ascended, they've played the law of averages for seven albums now to see if they one day might. At this juncture, it seems that's a losing proposition, but you'd never know it from Also Rising's portentous opening moments. \"The Harsh Facts of Life\" lopes in on a percolating bassline and live drumbeat that might make a great hiphop sample while spewing forth huge clouds of droning, ebowed laser guitar and whipping up an ominous buzz that appears to come from all directions at once. Where things go wrong from there is that there's no drama, no true climax to quicken your pulse rather, the beat gradually becomes choppier and the whole song downshifts in rhythmic intensity, dissolving into a fuzzaddled mudbath that doesn't fully wash off until a couple of tracks later. This is where it first becomes clear that this music is mostly improvised you can hear the band trying to feel each other and anticipate the next move, but winding up following one another instead of shifting as a collective whole. The texture that's laid out on that first song remains essentially static throughout the album's duration ebows rule the skies while Chris Van Huffel's drums blast out dry, punishing rhythm below. Changes are mostly in the details: a little phaser on the guitars, or more ride cymbal in the drums, and the only way you're going to truly hear all of the subtleties is to crank the volume to neighborbaiting levels and listen closely. The only song that breaks the mold is \"Angel Food\", a drifting ambient wash bereft of percussion, all ethereal guitars processed beyond easy recognition it's not a coincidence that it's the best track on the album, as it's the only one fully suited by the drifting nature of the playing. In all honesty, Also Rising is bound to put all but the most patient, attentive listeners out faster than a keg of Nyquil. Improvised music, even music improvised within a strict framework, usually falls at some extreme of transcendence or listlessness, and this lies toward the second pole, a few notches better than listening to the neighborhood band jam in their practice space. The end result is all one color, and ultimately just another instrumental rock album littering the landscape. "}