{"label":" AJP","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7577/homepage_large.d2693548.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Stark Reality","title":"Now","text":" Do you remember all that weird stuff public television tried to slip past us when we were kids? It's not enough that their most popular program featured huge, fluorescent birds and other unidentified animals (what the hell was Cookie Monster? Oscar the Grouch? Grover!?), it was created by a man whose greatest claim to fame before the show was a documentary about what it was like traveling through his brain while he meditated. And what about all those weird songs: that chaotic one with the counting and the chef always falling down the steps that always sounded like they had recorded it too loud and was really distorted, or the one with the psychedelic pinball machine, and that wayoutthere funky fusion vocal shit (that I later learned was penned by Herbie Hancock, and sung by the fucking Pointer Sisters). I suppose the producers at PBS and its affiliate networks like Boston's WGBH were reaching a tad far in those days, but to their credit, it's hard to imagine a world where their colorful, 60sinformed visions of a new education didn't exist. In 1969, jazz vibraphonist Monty Stark was working as a bandleader and arranger for WGBH's Say Brother program when he received a request from one Hoagy Bix Carmichael, son of legendary American songwriter, Hoagy Carmichael (\"Star Dust\", \"Georgia On My Mind\"). Bix was keen to produce a children's show wherein his father's music would receive a facelift for a new generation of kids, and in the process, learn the littleuns some music education. Stark's quartet, Stark Reality, had been working on Say Brother, and though they probably weren't terribly familiar with Carmichael's oldtime pop, were pretty keen to give it their own flavor. So, their own flavor: jazzy funk beats, fuzz guitar, wandering, restless bass and some of the most distorted vibes this side of, well, anywhere. Stark Reality made proto acidjazz and psychfunk out of the tunes, and though it was supposed to bring the music closer to something children in 1970 could dig, I can only imagine what they might have thought. I mean, unless these kids were hip to the Soft Machine and Headhunters, they'd probably have preferred something less out there. Stones Throw's reissue of Now includes all of the Carmichael songs, as well as a few Stark originals, though the less said about most of those, the better. Stark's band works up a groove pretty well, and he's an interesting player (even when that distortovibe gag wears thin after a few tunes), but I could probably have done without hearing him sing for the rest of my life. Oddly, Stark's raw, Oklahoma monotone croon only seems to veer off key and into the beyond on his original songs, because the covers sound mostly OK all in all, a good reason to appreciate the mastery of Hoagy Carmichael's melodies. \"Junkman's Song\" comes on like the mutated pairing of War's \"Cisco Kid\" and \"Miles Runs the Voodoo Down\". The band hammers the beat with patented Hendrixstyle guitar chords, but on vibes, and Abercrombie's vintage sixstring sear adds just the right amount of haze to what might otherwise lapse into cocktail lounge fuzak. The singsong melody sounds a little disorienting over this trebleheavy brew of dirty jazzrock, but that's probably the most interesting thing about the piece. In fact, throughout the album I wish Stark Reality had spent more time on the song proper, rather than taking off into cosmic improv jams so often. \"Thirty Days Hath September\" has another great melody, but you have to wade through a few minutes of gradeA noodling to get to it and once Stark gets through, they launch another marathon, meandering solo session. I'm all for musical exploration, but this kind of flatfooted jamming gets pretty boring after a while. \"Cooking\" gets it right, apparently by loosing the solo sections almost entirely. The slinky groove, powered by super dissonant vibe harmonies, and vintage wahwah gives way to Stark's ominous rendition of the original Carmichael melody. Again, the intro to the tune is about twice as long as the tune itself, but thankfully, the payoff comes relatively shortly, and the groove is worth the wait. \"All You Need to Make Music\" finds the band teaching the world about flats, naturals and halfrests but is actually a pretty good funk tune. Vinnie Johnson's tight drumming holds together a clever arrangement wherein the band plays off of Stark's lyrics detailing various aspects of musical notation. Anyway, the important thing is that the rather theoretical nature of the piece steers the band away from their more unhinged tendencies. Stones Throw have dropped a few gems in my lap over the years, but in this case, I wonder if the funk really is its own reward. The best moments on Now are reminiscent of other artists mentioned above, but the worst are basically unlistenable (I'm serious, play \"Too Much Tenderness\" at your own risk). All the sounds in between are bythenumbers jazz quartet funk, postboogaloo, pre the DJ culture that would mine their beats for loops. I reckon 75% of this CD occupies that middle ground, so if a few fleeting moments of fuzzy glory sound good to you, have at it. Hopefully, the kids will be all right. "}