{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7579/homepage_large.3973b757.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"So","title":"So","text":" It seemed that, from '95 to '99, every remix collection had an Oval remix on it. I'd really like to see them all collected in one place someday, because often, the Oval remix was the best thing the disc in question had to offer. Markus Popp's technique was not to pick out the catchiest bit and loop it as per custom, but to smash the track to pieces and see what could be assembled from the fragments. We would listen: \"Ah, yes, it's an Oval track, let's see what he left of the original. Hmm, not much, but there's something. Wow, this thing is gorgeous.\" That's how it went. Among my favorite of the many Oval remixes was his processing of \"International Velvet\" on Takako Minekawa's Ximer EP. Popp took a light, airy Jpop tune and ran it through his digital wood chipper, and each little piece that came out the other end sparkled like a gold coin. \"International Velvet (Oval Remix)\" made it on to many mixtapes over the next couple years, and I've been waiting for Oval to do something as immediately accessible and striking ever since. Patience has been rewarded. Popp's new project, So, a collaboration with songwriter Eriko Toyoda from Japan, reminds me of what I loved about \"International Velvet\". Toyoda recorded a series of voice and guitar songs in her home in MitoCity, and then she and Popp went about deconstructing them. As with the last few Oval records, one sonic inspiration for the dense treatments seems to be the sound of decelerated explosions. The music is a series of volatile energy surges expanding outward, gradually swallowing the musical devices setting them in motion. For the first time since Dok, the skipped CD is seldom heard, but elements from Commers and Ovalprocess modem whines, organ fuzz, guitar feedback are intact. I should point out that the parameters of the collaboration are not clear and there is no record of who did what (the brilliant cover illustration by Katsumi Yokota leaves little room for detail about the music), but suffice to say, whoever had their hand on the mouse sounds a lot like Oval. Markus Popp has always had disdain for the title of \"composer.\" His preferred term for his soundmaking method is formally \"file management,\" but with So, he terms his contribution \"art direction.\" This is a significant shift, I think one appropriate to the project at hand. From what I can guess about the nature of this collaboration, Toyoda provides the emotional script, Popp figures out how to light it, and they work together on the editing. Toyoda's loose, drifting vocals and instrumental melodies are twisted, accentuated, buried, chopped, or surrounded in a halo of harmonics, but they are the reference point. This arrangement plays to Popp's strengths as a sound manipulator. Judging from the uniformly high quality of his remixes over the years, he's a fantastic listener and understands intuitively what is most interesting about a particular sound or phrase. Each track is a unique, unpredictable swirl of voice, guitar, organ and god knows what else. These ten unnamed tracks vary considerably in terms of which of the original elements remains. The naked sound is most prevalent at the record's bookends. The first track begins with delicately plucked electric guitar, humming vocals, and something like a pennywhistle approximating a bird song. But within the first minute, the folk is picked apart and coated with a thick sheen of noise. The track breaks periodically and returns to Toyoda's guitar strumming, grounding again the flights of noise. The final number has a slow seesaw chord progression that could almost be a cover of Minnie Riperton's \"Lovin' You\", and it remains a traditional ballad throughout, with slight intrusions of organ feedback that threaten to overwhelm but ultimately remain subjugated to Toyoda's lovely tune. It's a positively sublime closing track that perfectly illustrates the genius of the So collaboration, the finest record Popp has been involved with since 94diskont. "}