{"label":" Lookout!","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7580/homepage_large.00c9476e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Small Brown Bike","title":"The River Bed","text":" Despite a midcareer slump, Marshall, Michigan's Small Brown Bike emerge on their third fulllength with a chunk of dense, melodic posthardcore. Tackling myriad frozen forms a cold, steel van or dark room, cold hearts and complicated breakups with the smokey vocals of a Midwestern Jawbreaker, the anomalous fourpiece is too heavy and unsentimental to fit the current emo framework, too Cometbus romantic for the majority of today's floor punchers, and way too pop punk for the indie set. Regardless of categorization, The River Bed is a wise warmingup to the band's early, most cathartic form. Less selfconsciously clean than Our Own Wars (1999) and rawer than the often hollow Dead Reckoning (2001), a number of The River Bed's tracks are a satisfying blend the band's nascent sound: catchy bass playing, threepart harmonies (one melodic singer, one distant screamer, one burly shouter), and tender teen lyrics package in a bluecollar aesthetic. Despite what the record snobs tell you, emotion doesn't have to turn into a caricature, and punk with hooks isn't necessarily embarrassing. I'm not generally a fan of this sort of music, but Small Brown Bike have a certain je ne sais quoi that keeps me returning to their rustbelt sermon. The album opens with \"Deconstruct/Rebuilt\", a claustrophobic scribble on citywide alienation; like the best Small Brown Bike, its tone remains triumphant despite the dour positioning of lyrics like, \"So I stare outside the window and I wish I was alive,\" which could only be a latesummer battle cry for unshaven urban hermits. \"Safe in Sound\" and \"A Declaration of Sorts\" are both midtempo lovesongs that build to a final shoutalong, the kind of thing Jawbreaker did well for so long, but emo (and Jets To Brazil) in the 90s just hasn't. In \"Safe in Sound\" Mike Reed shouts staccato, \"I can see it/ A picture of one cold, dark cloud/ A mist around you to choke the painful words out of your crooked mouth.\" It's no \"Chesterfield King\", but it's effective in its own way, especially the final group shout of \" I will be there to resuscitate you.\" \"What's Missing Is Dead\" is an epic, sprawling chanter about emptiness full of odd percussive shaker rattles and thinly sliced feedback: \"I brought home a fake badge to wear around the house and show my loved ones how much I try/ I've killed what's missing.\" Perhaps because the band includes brothers Ben and Mike Reed, family and a sense of place are regular thematic watering holes. Outside of the brief romantic tableaus, this is the band's strongest lyric path. Through eight songs, The River Bed doesn't miss too many beats; unfortunately, the track list goes to ten, and its final two compositions cavein on their own ambitions. \"The Outline of Your Hand Still Remains On My Hands\" is in title at least the sappiest Small Brown Bike to date. A twangy, tumbleweedetched ballad, it describes the unraveling of a relationship in a darkly ponderous Spiderland tone. It's not horrible, but its frozen molasses pace is meandering at best. Things only get less dynamic on a \"A Lesson To Remember\" the plodder that follows in its wake. The album's longest track, \"A Lesson To Remember\" formally links to Dead Reckoning's equally lengthy and dramatic closer, \"I Will Bury You in Me\" (that album's strongest track, and a manic finis). In lieu of kickass, rooftop fireworks, \"A Lesson To Remember\" can only passoff ghostly slide guitar, sharp arpeggios, and cheesy group harmonizing. Thanks to their shaky ponderousness, Small Brown Bike have never topped the lofi caterwauling of 1999's Collection, a thirteensong compilation of 7inch singles, compilation tracks, and the band's demo tape. Owing to inexpensive recording techniques, the band fell into Guided By Voices' poppy collage aesthetics, applying a cut and splice overload to hardcore dynamics: \"Crossing Guard\" and \"Cold\", for example, were stitched with feedback and a slow motion, insanely sludgy drum beat, plus guitarist Travis Dropp's super dense background bellow. While the band projected this toughass sound, a gentle homesick heartbeat thumped in the center. Often socalled progression brings with it a tendency to add strings, electronic bleeps, or the aim for an anomalous genre bending mishmash of outsider influences. With bands like Small Brown Bike who excel at contrasts, pummeling their instruments and finding a path towards melody through splintering volume and sludgy hiss, such arty detours ineluctably sabotage their strengths. "}