{"label":" Musea / Gazul","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7583/homepage_large.4b299d78.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Shub Niggurath","title":"Shub Niggurath","text":" Shub Niggurath arose from the pollution of a skewered kettle of semen and snot, fires raging around its crusted edges, sparks screaming with brilliant depravity. Which is to say Shub Niggurath formed in the mid80s in France, playing an engaging mixture of freejazz, electroacoustic music and avantprog. Thing is, it's pretty easy to forget this band was made of living, breathing people rather than a concoction brewed by some dark magus, obsessed with violent selfgratification and the color black. What's more, the band was named after a fertility demon created by master of the macabre/really strange horror, H.P. Lovecraft. \"Ia! Ia!\" was the Lovecraftian monster's cry, and it matches pretty well with the scratches, shrieks and subsonic bass growl of Shub Niggurath. 1986's Les Morts Vont Vite was their first fulllength release (after a selfreleased cassette), and so says me: it is one of the finest releases of that decade. The tunes tended to stretch out to epic length, and the atmosphere was decidedly grotesque: flailing, dirgelike beats, moaning, atonal guitar solos and massively distorted bass painted a frightening picture filled with various indecencies, and one that but for Ann Stewart's wordless soprano leads, would be almost entirely devoid of light. The band's 1991 followup C'etaient de Tres Grands Vents went even further, removing any ties to rock and presenting their dark visions as fullon impressionistic overtures and group improvisations. Bassist Alain Ballaud died of cancer in 1995, and the band broke apart, but their recordings from 1992 until that time are now available on this selftitled release. The music here is generally of two varieties: dark and ugly. That said, it is a deep darkness, and an interesting ugliness, so if it at first you dox92t get a little queasy, try, try again. For the most part, group improvisation is the program, and the overall mix of sounds shouldx92t actually be terribly shocking for anyone used to freakouts via the likes of Sonny Sharrock, Nurse With Wound or even early Sonic Youth. The difference lies in Shub Niggurath's way of making all their pieces (each of which is untitled, identified merely by its track length) seem less like meandering skronk than soundtracks for bondage films we werex92t meant to see. If you've heard records like Naked City's Heretic or Merzbow's 1930 records that wrung seductive fear out of \"noise\" you'll find something to grab hold of here. My favorite track is actually the first, and, perhaps not coincidentally, it's the most structured. It's also the most cinematically horrific, the perfect soundtrack for plunging into darkness just after death. Omnipresent yet distant bass drones engulf a mix that also features scraped metallic percussion, low rolling toms, squealing guitar harmonics and a fine sonic approximation of the deep black sea. I've heard this pallet of sounds before, but always obscured by other elements and resolved too soon. Shub Niggurath milk this for all of its potency, and if it's a very bad trip you're looking for, they have you covered. The second track erases that uneasy tranquility with jagged jabs of guitar and tigerroar bass, not to mention muscular jazz drums cracking anything in sight. It almost seems like a threeway fistfight, as cuts and scars are traded among the participants in rapid succession. If you can make through the gauntlet, I'd say you're threshold for pain is pretty high. Only the fifth track has anything close to a \"beat\" fractured and thudding as it is but it doesx92t really takeoff until the last couple of minutes, wherein the aggressive bass and guitar give way to precisely timed staccato hits. The piece dies away into silence, and leads directly into the next, featuring what sounds like the remains of barbed wire fence being shaken and JeanLuc Herve's ornery, highpitched sixstring static. It eventually climaxes into a hectic drone thrash (which doesx92t quite bury the odd screaming in the background), not unlike something that might happen at the end of a particularly bleak Godspeed You! Black Emperor song. I guess the only thing keeping me from really flipping over this CD is the way it all melds together in my head after I'm done listening. Unlike their debut, Shub Niggurath's final recordings went for an admirably dense method of madness as opposed to something more varied; still, their persistence and talent for molding a small array of timbres into almost symphonic mass is impressive. I wish they'd been able to continue, because at the very least, this CD is a testament to a band who were quite obviously not done experimenting. Go for Les Morts Vont Vite first, but know there's something to unearth here too. "}