{"label":" Ware","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7586/homepage_large.81e5fe3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Iven Schmidt","title":"Track: Array","text":" With the high quality of electronic music of every conceivable ilk streaming from German factories like so many automobiles and methamphetamines, the sometimes unknown names of many of its purveyors can often be cavalierly bypassed on the strength of their labels' reputations alone. Stalwarts like Mike Ink's Profan, Stefan Betke's ~scape, and Peter Rehberg's Mego are nobrainers, the label identities as one with their masters' renowned monikers. The Ware label has quickly been building a solid reputation of its own, having issued a string of remarkable and consistent longplayers over the past year. Markus Guentner's Audio Island was a songbased house epic; Coloma contrived poppy clicks of modglitch with astounding wordplay that absolutely shamed The Postal Service. And now Iven Schmidt's debut is before me, more rubbery in its dancesteps than its brethren and more cluboriented but no less catchy. Built around three previous Ware singles, the eleven tracks here stay uptempo. While not the first to explicitly craft a record around the concept of driving (or highways, or autobahns), Schmidt conjures up the sleek German design of today by hotwiring its primitive arcade heart and making a driving game out of it. \"Quest for Tires\" starts off like the Commodore 64's classic Night Driver game, all simple white dashes on a black screen before the bass and distorted patches shift up into something more akin to Pole Position the pulses and accompanying clicks seem almost kinetic as the track makes hairpin turns and musses up digitized hairdos. \"Digital Sun\" is a quartereater, too. With a bass like glycerin drops on a trampoline, Schmidt keeps his keys in a twitchy mode, flicking pings across the ears before breaking it all down into a distorted Nintendo ditty bouncing like Donkey Kong barrels. While \"Pocket Hero\" may be the track built from assorted Game Boy sounds, \"LSR\" is most gamey, combining canned handclaps with Mario fireballs and jumpblips. And if the classic arcade sentiments weren't conveyed already, \"Moon Patrol\" revitalizes that craggy, horizontalscrolling shooter of yore with stunsynths and vocoded commands. Built from a crisp house beat, \"M Track\" drops in snips of distorted scratches until its breakdown reveals the crunching noises to be the edge of a biting melodic line. It stutters to a stop before bouncing back even harder with little pings darting out like Frogger in the tempered traffic of Model 500type racecars and trucks. The cutup vocals of \"Tanzmaschine\" are bit too distracting at the end of the disc, but it's the only speed bump on an otherwise thrilling ride through a very crowded and vibrant urban scene. "}