{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7596/homepage_large.8968ddff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Stills","title":"Without Feathers","text":" The Stills' 2003 debut LP, Logic Will Break Your Heart, found the Canadian band hitching its wagon to a New York rock scene obsessed with edgy, paranoid guitarrock that was two decades removed from its creative peak. An appropriately titled record, Logic was keen and calculating: Weighing the commercial potential of brooding, atmospheric gloomrock during the halcyon days of Interpol, just when bands like Joy Division and Echo & the Bunnymen were rotating to the top of the nostalgia cycle, the Stills subscribed to the notion that precise, cerebral guitarrock could be heartwrenching when paired with tender, immaculate vocals. Frontman Tim Fletcher had the pipes for the job, and his voice, dappling a landscape of craggy guitars and gently insistent beats, made Logic a dark and glittering vacuum that, at its best, could suck all the air from a room. Detractors might prefer Without Feathers, a much different record than its predecessor, albeit one equally deserving of its title. Much looser and sparser than Logic, Without Feathers hunkers down in the dirt and scratches around with clippedwing exuberance, instead of soaring somewhere high and remote. If I read anyone comparing it to Interpol, I'm going to start believing what the kids say on the message boards when someone disses their favorite band the critic must not have even listened to the record. Where Logic couched its mawkishness in a sumptuous, shadowy mantle of sophistication, Feathers lets it all hang out: The jaunty pianos and major key leads, Fletcher's openly maudlin lyrics, and his cheerful/wistful phrasing all downplay the aching drama of Logic in favor of a peppy enthusiasm. The change is evident from the first song, the cheerfully galloping \"In the Beginning\". Pianos plink with abandon over a hitchandgallop rhythm guitar; a bright lead skims through the mix like a dayglo Frisbee; former drummer Dave Hamelin (the band's primary songwriter) belts out winningly mawkish platitudes (\"a hero never turns around\") like he means them which, by God, he probably does. \"The Mountain\" crashes dizzyingly in the vein of Logic, but the vocals retain none of that album's simper, boldly asserting itself above the fray. \"Destroyer\" shines with a sprightly brass section, while \"Oh Shoplifter\" bristles with handclaps and iridescent organs. Other songs are more melancholy in character, like \"In the End\", with its imperious piano phrases and balladeering. \"She's Walking Out\" drifts and shimmers: \"We'll leave in a balloon,\" Hamelin fancifully asserts, sounding like Julian Casablancas fronting the Walkmen. Feathers seems less a continuation of Logic than a valuable complement, cheerful and heartfelt as the latter was somber and stylized. "}