{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7598/homepage_large.a1f09ca9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Soft Canyon","title":"Broken Spirit, I Will Mend Your Wings","text":" Despite everything my foster parents taught me in the formative stages of my life, I looked at the label before I listened to this album. I understand this is the most grievous sin a reviewer can wallow in. Tricky Woo, Andrew Dickson's old band, was one of the great maestros of Canadian nostalgaragic rock, shredding out dimebags of scalding calamity with the attention and maturity of guitarwreathed preadolescents. So I was understandably frothing out of my pores when his new band, Soft Canyon, got signed to Alien8 Recordings, a triumphantly experimental label that's released everything from Keiji Haino to Francisco Lopez. This was truly going to be a melding of minds, my generation's version of the Yalta Convention, reassembling postwar Europe with the fury only experimental rock can muster! Basically, I fully expected the first track to be called \"Rock 'N Roll Lunar Orbit 89 dash Armageddon\" It is actually called \"For You\". I believe my response, if this transcript I'm holding is accurate, was, \"Oh.\" Rather than impart any negative words to my cherished Alien8, I'm going to put the rest of this review in brackets so it will never hurt anyone ever again. Freud called this \"lying.\" I call it \"a terrible idea.\" [\"For You\" starts with a zestful beat, drowsy backup harmonies, and braiding guitar lines. Unfortunately, the chorus is one note pretending it's ten, with a brainless heavyhandedness that would be more appropriate on a Train (maybe Green Day) album, one of those songs written for imaginary bands in movies influenced by better bands. It's hardly even worth mentioning that the song is about \"magenta planes\" and \"ocean music from strings that never end.\" (Apparently this is the indie rock version of rap songs professing their own potency. Please, bands, stop critiquing yourselves and taking away my money!) The one compelling aspect of the song is the looming guitar solos, occasionally venturing into a sonic unruliness somewhere between Tricky Woo and Kim Thayil. Later, \"Hope's Great Divide\" replicates an Abbey Road bridge that wasn't interesting enough for me to figure out which specific song it came from. \"Sunflight\" begins as two girthed chords as produced by Willie Mitchell, but unexpectedly develops into a subdued anthem. Discouragingly, that anthem seems to be \"Sunflight, stay with me tonight.\" Dickson's vocals are either irksomely whiny or in a growl better suited to a fifthwave jam band than these tight pop melodies. Elsewhere, though, these vagrant genres coagulate into a mighty devilish genremeld. On \"Kaleidoscope Mountain\", evaporating surfguitar, stiff drums, and exasperatingly childish keyboards bounce over rockabilly ska. I dislike pseudosurrealistic lyrics and I dislike love lyrics even more, but I have been bombarded with enough Johnny Cash articles recently that I have found room in my cancerous heart for the chorus, \"I walked into a lake of fire... and washed my hands.\" Of course, about halfway through it spontaneously decides it would rather be a Pink Floyd tune (and little more). They might not be engendering new avantgarde circles, but, come on, Pink Floyd was a pretty damn good band but not good enough that I could reasonably be expected to sit through seven minutes of \"We Threw Our Love into the Universe\", a song so utterly indebted to Pink Floyd (to the exclusion of all else, including other Floyd plagiarizers) that I have little incentive to finish this sentence. Soft Canyon make no attempts to deceive anyone. From the cover to the song titles, the aim of the album quite clearly seems to be to serve only as an assortment of ripoffs and homages (indistinguishable ones, at that) to Beach Boysinflected sunshinepop and doomed surrealistic spazmetal. Admittedly, I'm very amenable to such combinations, but there's simply not enough here to differentiate Soft Canyon from the innumerable minions of Elephant 6derived progeny.] "}