{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7606/homepage_large.045aa13e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Bruce Springsteen","title":"We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions","text":" On paper, The Seeger Sessions seems like a terrible idea: traditional American folksongs paid hyperreverent homage by one of rock'n'roll's most earnest performers, an attempt to transform campfire songs into sermons and anoint sweet, old, cordcutting Pete Seeger high priest of Americana. Instead, this collection consisting of songs Seeger has sung, but none he's written is a boisterous, spiritraising throwdown, conjured by a 12man band (guitar, harmonica, tuba, violin, B3 organ, upright bass, banjo, piano, drums, accordion, trombone, saxophone, trumpet, and more) and a pack of grinning backup singers. Perhaps ironically, Bruce Springsteen one of America's mostadored songsmiths is soaring high on a record full of tracks other people wrote.On The Seeger Sessions, Springsteen growls, warbles, groans, and gags, sounding often like Tom Waits (check the scratchy, ominous vocals on \"Erie Canal\") or later Bob Dylan. It's a stark contrast to Seeger's crisp, clear pipes, and it reinvigorates a handful of ancient American tracks. Like any good folk record, The Seeger Sessions tackles the tangle of war, strife, poverty, and unrest, but does so without sacrificing joy or release (really, the very reasons people began singing in the first place). The resulting collection happily drowns out echoes of Springsteen's underwhelming recent efforts, and just might be the very best and most inspiring album Bruce has produced in more than a decade. Embracing early E Street shuffle and ditching the solemnity of 2005's Devils and Dust, The Seeger Sessions culls from a century of rich, gritty Americana tradition, from bluegrass to country to rhythm and blues to gospel, rock'n'roll, Zydeco, Dixieland, and more. Springsteen is an obvious descendent of folk tradition, but, as he writes in the record's liner notes, this is \"street corner music, parlor music, tavern music, wilderness music, circus music, church music, gutter music.\" Or: The Seeger Sessions is a party record.Clawing through Seeger's considerable catalogue, Springsteen ultimately selected a smart, varied, and cohesive smattering of songs, proving he retains a deep and nuanced understanding of folk tradition. In a recent New Yorker profile of Seeger, Springsteen talks about folk songs as tools with potential to become \"righteous implements when connected to historical consciousness,\" and claims to have chosen this particular repertoire because, \"Everything I wanted, I found there.\" Appropriately, Spingsteen's voice seems custommade for tracks like \"We Shall Overcome\", where his signature gravity spreads shivers, destined to silence even the most jaded listeners with its convincing optimism. Written in 1905, \"Erie Canal\" (sealed comfortably in the consciousness of any kid born or raised in western New York), is ominous and hypnotizing, with banjo picks punctuated by organs, strings, and an unexpected Dixieland breakdown midway through it's not hard to imagine whole arenas shouting, \"Low bridge, everybody down!\"The gorgeously explosive \"O Mary Don't You Weep\" cracks open with teasing fiddles, before horns and drums kick up and Springsteen's throaty shouts are rounded out by a bevy of backing singers, organs sliding in and out, a gloriously sloppy mélange of sound, as indebted to New Orleans as it is to Newport. Springteen's voice is gravelly and real, happily divorced from the overproduction and studio tweaking that plagues his recent work, and perfectly in sync with his band's raucous, gleeful pounding. Everyone here is loose and intoxicated, and nowhere else is the record's quasilive conceit (the record was made in three daylong sessions, preceded by no rehearsals) as gloriously palpable.Springsteen has a habit of folding current events into his songs without ever being specific enough to limit a verse to a single time and place. Unsurprisingly, that timelessness syncs up perfectly with the centuriesold songs on The Seeger Sessions, and, if nothing else, confirms that Bruce Springsteen was the right (and maybe only) person for this particular gig. Less an exhumation than a celebration, The Seeger Sessions is the best proof we've got that America's folksongs are also our finest artifacts. It's all here: recipes, prayers, promises, fears, hopes, and hollers. "}