{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/767/homepage_large.4695c5ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Black Rebel Motorcycle Club","title":"Howl","text":" In 2004, months after the release of their sophomore record Take Them On, On Your Own, Black Rebel Motorcycle Club was unceremoniously dropped by longtime label Virgin; around the same time, founding drummer Nick Jago slinked away from the group, purportedly incapable of handling the rigor of a major label publicity push (or of showing up to gigs on time). Since its inception, BRMC has seemed oddly wellprimed for anticlimactic dissolution, but rather than slumping away from the stage, leather jackets retired to mothballstocked closets, Black Rebel Motorcycle Club has opted to regroup and pilfer a new musical spectrum, this time tackling classic American blues, country, and gospel. The trio has traded in their pedals and sneers for slides and acoustics. Guitarist/vocalist Robert Turner has reverted back to his given name, Robert Levon Been (originally changed to distance Been from his father, Michael Been of 1980s rockers the Call). Vago is back, smiling peacefully. Dunked in the Mississippi, BRMC are reborn. There may be something awkwardly rote about BRMC's sudden interest in capturing gothic country goo (\"Fault Line\" features an extended harmonica solo; TBone Burnett cops multiple gratis in the liner notes), but Howl is still considerably more compelling than the bellowing, Jesus and Mary Chain retreads the band formerly relied on. All the Oasis posturing and NMEdrool puddles made it easy to forget that BRMC were actually born in bluesky California, and their new album title, which groaningly salutes periodic San Franciscoresident Allen Ginsberg, gently reminds listeners of the band's scraggly American roots which is appropriate, given all the risingsouth thievery BRMC is indulging here for the very first time. The snag is, heartless posturing is still heartless posturing, no matter how sharp the change of scenery: at its best, Howl twists slide guitar and acoustic strums into vaguely convincing neoBand jams, and at its worst, it sounds like cartoonAmericana (shockingly, unplugging your guitar and cawing about Jesus doesn't make you country.) Still, it's that tension between classic BRMC bluster and squeaky Delta organics that makes Howl an unusually interesting record.Howl is predominantly acoustic, but so sopped with fuzz and echo that it actually manages to sound much bigger than it is. BRMC have hinted at Jack Whiteian fetishes before, but Howl is still a remarkable departure for the band, and their trademark druggy dirges are noticeably absent here. \"Devil's Waitin'\" (sort of embarrassingly) mines Johnny Cash's lyrical stash, all Jesus and prison, proclamations about life and the Devil growled over careful acoustic strums and tiny wisps of pedal steel. The song's closing coyote Howls bayed gently, with cactusstuck, old west conviction give way to a threeman humalong, and finally slip into a gospel vocal swell (even the echoes seem to scream \"We're in church!\") Lead single \"Ain't No Easy Way\" is jammed with raucous steel guitar riffs and harmonica canoodling, all countryrock stomp and barn dance fervor. BRMC's natural penchant for the loud and bombastic work well here; surprisingly, \"Ain't No Easy Way\" is a perfectly convincing throwdown, oddly free of awkward contrivances. Much of \"Gospel Song\" is whispered, slipping in and out of thick fullband buzz, plodding on and on but never actually landing anywhere particularly interesting; opener \"Shuffle Your Feet\" starts with an a capella \"Time won't save our souls!\" whine, before slipping into a handclapping, honkytonk rhythm. There might be a tiny hint of desperation fueling much of Howl, but ultimately the record is an oddly earnest experiment for BRMC, and once they learn to drop the weird, obligatory signifiers, their new direction may actually prove more fruitful than their last: Cramming together brash rock snottiness with meek country hollers is hardly uncharted territory (not that it matters), but BRMC's particular mashup still makes for a strangely intriguing party. "}