{"label":" City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7613/homepage_large.14b28596.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Sophia","title":"People Are Like Seasons","text":" The very few bands signed to Fiction Records were purely the result of the fleeting fancies of Robert Smith or Chris Parry, who in the late 80s and early 90s were looking to legitimize the imprint as more than just The Cure's family label. They had a keen ear for bands destined to do absolutely nothing: Eat, Candyland, and Die Warzau. I'll give Eat \"Mr. and Mrs. Smack\", and I apologize if Big Electric Metal Bass Face is a cherished teen memory for the KMFDM set, but only one Fiction band ever made much of a name on their own: the easily ridiculed Goth er, God Machine. Boasting amorphous shoegaze album art, singer Robin ProperSheppard's 50sBrando good looks and ridiculously perfect name, The God Machine followed in the footsteps of their older brethren Swervedriver, pushing the genre's boundaries toward the darker, more theatrical territory charted by Swans. That the tribal drumming drew comparisons to Jane's Addiction underscored the limited understanding most critics had of underground rock music at the time, but their squealing industrialshoegaze hybridization nevertheless took Britain by storm via 1993's doubleLP Scenes from the Second Storey. The shocking loss of bassist and close friend Jimmy Fernandez to cancer just a year later prematurely ended the group, and, having started up his own Flower Shop label (18th Dye, Swervedriver, Elysian Fields), ProperSheppard focused on production before a hesitant return to music with Sophia in 1996. Instantly compared to Sparklehorse and Red House Painters' ascendant acoustic melodrama, Sophia's postfolk hasn't exactly blossomed since their inception. Their debut Fixed Water (functionally a ProperSheppard solo album) was full of understandably overblown lifecrisis ballads like \"When You're Sad\" and \"Last Night I Had a Dream\" (where he pines, \"What has rock and roll led you to believe?\"). Without the tragic backstory, Fixed Water is more Dashboard Confessional than Elliott Smith, but by 1998's The Infinite Circle, ProperSheppard, cracking thirty, began to take ownership of his anguish, and, with added strings, flushed out the group's sound. The results wavered between commercially confident Grant Lee Buffalo ballads and more retiring, impressionistic Red House Painters material, and found an inexplicably massive audience in Europe especially Belgium, where ProperSheppard had by then relocated to, and Germany (home to Sophia's new label City Slang). Bands that grew up listening to The God Machine Mogwai, in particular sang Sophia's praises in the late 90s, and their three Flower Shop releases have to date sold over 30,000 copies combined, earning ProperSheppard a comfortable European living. But soon after these golden café years, death put Sophia on hiatus again: ProperSheppard's mother passed away, quite suddenly, in 2001. Three years later, his music is more aggressive and confident, yet far more nostalgic: At the core of People Are Like Seasons sits a massive, eightminute pyre that looks back to his years in The God Machine, both in name and the stratospheric guitar finale that sets it alight. The toobrief ninety seconds of unrestrained electric heaven closing \"Desert Song No. 2\" will reduce anyone who loved his former band to tears, but the bulk of the song six minutes of western violin and dust bowl piano is actually about Chan Marshall's breakdown on the last night of her Moon Pix tour, which occurred in Belgium while she was opening for Sophia. Naturally, the rueful refrain \"let yourself go\" took on new meaning when ProperSheppard's mother died; in the six long years since Cat Power's Grace Slick impression, this album's centerpiece has evolved into a defining work, lending wisdom and inviting plenty of psychoanalysis. The opening track and lead single, \"Oh My Love\", is a shock to anyone familiar with Sophia. A telling parallel with Cat Power's liberation on You Are Free, it's a stomping and surprisingly commercial guitar anthem that's earning some advance curiosity from the UK press, along with unfortunate comparisons to Ryan Adams and Modest Mouse. Countered sharply by the slight drum machine lilt \"Swept Back\" and the Lennon impression \"Fool\" (its title another Cat Power coincidence), the album completely derails following \"Desert Song No. 2\", veering into awful lofi hard rock. A sheepish tribute to The The (\"Darkness\") prefaces the abysmal \"If a Change Is Gonna Come\", a distorted clapalong ripoff of \"The Man Who Sold the World\" featuring an unholy, unforgivable chorus of \"life's a bitch and then you die.\" Though you'll miss out on \"Holidays Are Nice\", which channels the summertime bliss of San Francisco's Swell (who Sophia toured with in 1997), you will turn this confused album off halfway through without missing much. The sevenplus minutes of \"I Left You\" lack the personality and emotional heft of \"Desert Song No. 2\", collapsing in on grandiose, overblown melodies found in the worst sort of film ballads, and the selfrecorded parting shot \"Another Trauma\" is merely a whiskeythroated asterisk at the longcoming close of People Are Like Seasons, a record that fires its cannons twenty minutes in. "}